Conformed to Federal Register version
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
17 CFR Parts 200, 230, 232, 239, 240, 249, and 260
[Release Nos. 33-9741; 34-74578; 39-2501; File No. S7-11-13]
RIN 3235-AL39
Amendments for Small and Additional Issues Exemptions under the Securities Act
(Regulation A)
AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission.
ACTION: Final rules.
SUMMARY: We are adopting amendments to Regulation A and other rules and forms
to implement Section 401 of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act. Section
401 of the JOBS Act added Section 3(b)(2) to the Securities Act of 1933, which directs
the Commission to adopt rules exempting from the registration requirements of the
Securities Act offerings of up to $50 million of securities annually. The final rules
include issuer eligibility requirements, content and filing requirements for offering
statements, and ongoing reporting requirements for issuers in Regulation A offerings.
DATES: The final rules and form amendments are effective on June 19, 2015.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Zachary O. Fallon, Special Counsel;
Office of Small Business Policy, Division of Corporation Finance, at (202) 551-3460; or
Shehzad K. Niazi, Special Counsel; Office of Rulemaking, Division of Corporation
Finance, at (202) 551-3430, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street,
NE, Washington, DC 20549-3628.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: We are amending Rules 251 through 263 1 of
Regulation A under the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”). 2
We are revising Form 1-A, 3 rescinding Form 2-A, 4 and adopting four new forms,
Form 1-K (annual report), Form 1-SA (semiannual report), Form 1-U (current report),
and Form 1-Z (exit report).
Further, we are revising Rule 4a-1 5 under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (the
“Trust Indenture Act”) 6 to increase the dollar ceiling of the exemption from the
requirement to issue securities pursuant to an indenture. We are also amending Rule
12g5-1 7 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) 8 to permit issuers
to rely on a conditional exemption from mandatory registration of a class of securities
under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act, Rule 15c2-11 9 of the Exchange Act to permit
an issuer’s ongoing reports filed under Regulation A to satisfy a broker-dealer’s
obligations to review and maintain certain information about an issuer’s quoted
securities, and Rule 30-1 10 of the Commission’s organizational rules and provisions for
delegated authority to permit the Division of Corporation Finance to issue notices of
qualification and deny Form 1-Z filings. In addition, we are adopting a technical

1

17 CFR 230.251 through 230.263.

2

15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.

3

17 CFR 239.90.

4

17 CFR 239.91.

5

17 CFR 260.4a-1.

6

15 U.S.C. 77aaa et seq.

7

17 CFR 240.12g5-1.

8

15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.

9

17 CFR 240.15c2-11.

10

17 CFR 200.30-1.

2

amendment to Exchange Act Rule 15c2-11 to update the outdated reference to “Schedule
H of the By-Laws of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.,” which is now
known as the “Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.” and to reflect the correct
rule reference.
As a result of the revisions to Regulation A, we are adopting conforming and
technical amendments to Securities Act Rules 157(a), 11 505(b)(2)(iii), 12 and Form 8-A.
Additionally, we are revising Item 101(a) 13 of Regulation S-T 14 to reflect the mandatory
electronic filing of all issuer initial filing and ongoing reporting requirements under
Regulation A. We are also revising Item 101(c)(6) 15 of Regulation S-T to remove the
reference to paper filings in a Regulation A offering, and removing and reserving
Item 101(b)(8) 16 of Regulation S-T dealing with the optional electronic filing of
Form F-X by Canadian issuers.

11

17 CFR 230.157(a).

12

17 CFR 230.505(b)(2)(iii).

13

17 CFR 232.101(a).

14

17 CFR 232.10 et seq.

15

17 CFR 232.101(c)(6).

16

17 CFR 232.101(b)(8).

3

Table of Contents
I.
II.

INTRODUCTION
FINAL RULES AND AMENDMENTS TO REGULATION A
A. Overview
B. Scope of Exemption
1.
Eligible Issuers
2.
Eligible Securities
3.
Offering Limitations and Secondary Sales
4.
Investment Limitation
5.
Integration
6.
Treatment under Section 12(g)
C. Offering Statement
1.
Electronic Filing; Delivery Requirements
2.
Non-Public Submission of Draft Offering Statements
3.
Form and Content
4.
Continuous or Delayed Offerings and Offering Circular Supplements
5.
Qualification
D. Solicitation of Interest (Testing the Waters)
1.
Proposed Rules
2.
Comments on Proposed Rules
3.
Final Rules
E. Ongoing Reporting
1.
Continuing Disclosure Obligations
2.
Exchange Act Rule 15c2-11 and Other Implications of Ongoing Reporting
under Regulation A
3.
Exchange Act Registration of Regulation A Securities
4.
Exit Report on Form 1-Z
F. Insignificant Deviations from a Term, Condition or Requirement
G. Bad Actor Disqualification
1.
Proposed Rules
2.
Comments on Proposed Rules
3.
Final Rules
H. Relationship with State Securities Law
1.
Proposed Rules
2.
Comments on Proposed Rules
3.
Final Rules
I. Additional Considerations Related to Smaller Offerings
J. Transitional Guidance for Issuers Currently Conducting Regulation A Offerings
K. Technical and Conforming Amendments
III.
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Broad Economic Considerations
B. Baseline
1.
Current Methods of Raising up to $50 Million of Capital
2.
Investors
3.
Financial Intermediaries
4

Scope of Exemption
1.
Eligible Issuers
2.
Eligible Securities
3.
Offering Limitations and Secondary Sales
4.
Investment Limitation
5.
Integration
6.
Treatment under Section 12(g)
D. Offering Statement
1.
Electronic Filing and Delivery
2.
Disclosure Format and Content
3.
Audited Financial Statements
4.
Other Accounting Requirements
5.
Continuous and Delayed Offerings
6.
Nonpublic Review of Draft Offering Statements
E. Solicitation of Interest (“Testing the Waters”)
F. Ongoing Reporting
1.
Periodic and Current Event Reporting Requirements
2.
Termination and Suspension of Reporting and Exit Reports
3.
Exchange Act Registration
G. Insignificant Deviations
H. Bad Actor Disqualification
I. Relationship with State Securities Law
IV.
PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT
A. Background
B. Estimated Number of Regulation A Offerings
C. PRA Reporting and Cost Burden Estimates
1.
Regulation A (Form 1-A and Form 2-A)
2.
Form 1-K: Annual Report
3.
Form 1-SA: Semiannual Report
4.
Form 1-U: Current Reporting
5.
Form 1-Z: Exit Report
6.
Form 8-A: Short Form Registration under the Exchange Act
7.
Form ID Filings
8.
Form F-X
D. Collections of Information are Mandatory
V.
FINAL REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY ACT ANALYSIS
A. Need for the Rules
B. Significant Issues Raised by Public Comments
C. Small Entities Subject to the Rules
D. Reporting, Recordkeeping, and Other Compliance Requirements
E. Agency Action to Minimize Effect on Small Entities
VI.
STATUTORY BASIS AND TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
C.

5

I.

INTRODUCTION
On December 18, 2013, we proposed rule and form amendments 17 to implement

Section 401 of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (the “JOBS Act”). 18 Section 401
of the JOBS Act amended Section 3(b) of the Securities Act by designating existing
Section 3(b) as Section 3(b)(1), and creating new Sections 3(b)(2)-(5). Section 3(b)(2)
directs the Commission to adopt rules adding a class of securities exempt from the
registration requirements of the Securities Act for offerings of up to $50 million of
securities within a 12-month period. Sections 3(b)(2)-(5) specify mandatory terms and
conditions for such exempt offerings and also authorize the Commission to adopt other
terms, conditions, or requirements as necessary in the public interest and for the
protection of investors. 19 In addition, Section 3(b)(5) directs the Commission to review
the $50 million offering limit specified in Section 3(b)(2) not later than two years after
the enactment of the JOBS Act and every two years thereafter, and authorizes the
Commission to increase the annual offering limit if it determines that it would be
appropriate to do so. Accordingly, we are revising Regulation A under the Securities Act
to require issuers conducting offerings in reliance on Section 3(b)(2) to comply with
terms and conditions established by the Commission’s rules, and, where applicable, to
make ongoing disclosure.

17

See Rel. No. 33-9497 [79 FR 3925] (Dec. 18, 2013) (the “Proposing Release”), available at:
http://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed/2013/33-9497.pdf.

18

Pub. L. No. 112-106, 126 Stat. 306.

19

We are adopting a number of terms and conditions for Regulation A offerings pursuant to our
discretionary authority under Sections 3(b)(2)-(5). Where we have done so, as discussed in detail
in Section II. below, it is because we find such terms and conditions to be necessary in the public
interest and for the protection of investors.

6

II.

FINAL RULES AND AMENDMENTS TO REGULATION A

A.

Overview
We are adopting final rules to implement the JOBS Act mandate by expanding

Regulation A into two tiers: Tier 1, for securities offerings of up to $20 million; and
Tier 2, for offerings of up to $50 million.20 The final rules for offerings under Tier 1 and
Tier 2 build on current Regulation A and preserve, with some modifications, existing
provisions regarding issuer eligibility, offering circular contents, testing the waters, and
“bad actor” disqualification. As proposed, and with the modifications described below,
the final rules modernize the Regulation A filing process for all offerings, align practice
in certain areas with prevailing practice for registered offerings, create additional
flexibility for issuers in the offering process, and establish an ongoing reporting regime
for Regulation A issuers. Under the final rules, Tier 2 issuers are required to include
audited financial statements in their offering documents and to file annual, semiannual,
and current reports with the Commission. With the exception of securities that will be
listed on a national securities exchange upon qualification, purchasers in Tier 2 offerings
must either be accredited investors, as that term is defined in Rule 501(a) of
Regulation D, or be subject to certain limitations on their investment. The differences
between Tier 1 and Tier 2 offerings are described more fully below.
In developing the final rules, we considered the statutory language of JOBS Act
Section 401, the JOBS Act legislative history, recent recommendations of the
Commission’s Government-Business Forum on Small Business Capital Formation, 21 the
20

An issuer of $20 million or less of securities could elect to proceed under either Tier 1 or Tier 2.

21

Recommendations of the Commission’s Government-Business Forum on Small Business Capital
Formation are available at: http://www.sec.gov/info/smallbus/sbforum.shtml.

7

Advisory Committee on Small and Emerging Companies, 22 the Equity Capital Formation
Task Force, 23 comment letters received on Title IV of the JOBS Act before the
Commission’s proposed rules were issued in December of 2013, 24 and comment letters
received to date on the Commission’s proposed rules to implement Section 401 of the
JOBS Act. 25
The key provisions of the final rules and amendments to Regulation A follow:
Scope of the exemption – the final rules:
•

Establish two tiers of offerings:
•

Tier 1: annual offering limit of $20 million, including no more than
$6 million on behalf of selling securityholders that are affiliates of the issuer.

•

Tier 2: annual offering limit of $50 million, including no more than
$15 million on behalf of selling securityholders that are affiliates of the issuer.

•

Limit sales by selling securityholders in an issuer’s initial Regulation A offering
and any subsequently qualified Regulation A offering within the first 12-month
period following the date of qualification of the initial Regulation A offering to no
more than 30% of the aggregate offering price.

22

Recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Small and Emerging Companies are available
at: http://www.sec.gov/info/smallbus/acsec.shtml.

23

Equity Capital Task Force, From the On-Ramp to the Freeway: Refueling Job Creation and
Growth by Reconnecting Investors with Small-Cap Companies, presentation to the U.S. Dep’t. of
Treasury (November 11, 2013), available at: http://www.equitycapitalformationtaskforce.com/.

24

To facilitate public input on JOBS Act rulemaking before the issuance of rule proposals, the
Commission invited members of the public to make their views known on various JOBS Act
initiatives in advance of any rulemaking by submitting comment letters to the Commission’s
website at http://www.sec.gov/spotlight/jobsactcomments.shtml. Comment letters received to date
on Title IV of the JOBS Act are available at: http://www.sec.gov/comments/jobs-title-iv/jobstitle-iv.shtml.

25

The comment letters received to date in response to the Proposing Release are available at:
http://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-11-13/s71113.shtml.

8

•

Preserve the existing issuer eligibility requirements of Regulation A, and also
exclude issuers that are, or have been, subject to any order of the Commission
pursuant to Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act entered within five years before the
filing of the offering statement and issuers that are required to, but that have not,
filed with the Commission the ongoing reports required by the final rules during
the two years immediately preceding the filing of an offering statement.

•

Limit the amount of securities that an investor who is not an accredited investor
under Rule 501(a) of Regulation D can purchase in a Tier 2 offering to no more
than: (a) 10% of the greater of annual income or net worth (for natural persons);
or (b) 10% of the greater of annual revenue or net assets at fiscal year end (for
non-natural persons). This limit will not apply to purchases of securities that will
be listed on a national securities exchange upon qualification.

•

Exclude asset-backed securities, as defined in Regulation AB, from the list of
eligible securities.

•

Update the safe harbor from integration and provide guidance on the potential
integration of offerings conducted concurrently with, or close in time after, a
Regulation A offering.

Solicitation materials:
•

Permit issuers to “test the waters” with, or solicit interest in a potential offering
from, the general public either before or after the filing of the offering statement,
so long as any solicitation materials used after publicly filing the offering
statement are preceded or accompanied by a preliminary offering circular or
contain a notice informing potential investors where and how the most current

9

preliminary offering circular can be obtained.
Qualification, communications, and offering process:
•

Require issuers and intermediaries in the prequalification period to deliver a
preliminary offering circular to prospective purchasers at least 48 hours in
advance of sale unless the issuer is subject to, and current in, Tier 2 ongoing
reporting obligations. Where the issuer is subject to, and current in, a Tier 2
ongoing reporting obligation, issuers and intermediaries will only be required to
comply with the general delivery requirements for offers.

•

Modernize the qualification, communications, and offering processes in
Regulation A to reflect analogous provisions of the Securities Act registration
process: 26
•

Permit issuers and intermediaries to satisfy their delivery requirements as to
the final offering circular under an “access equals delivery” model when sales
are made on the basis of offers conducted during the prequalification period
and the final offering circular is filed and available on the Commission’s
Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system (EDGAR);

•

Require issuers and intermediaries, not later than two business days after
completion of a sale, to provide purchasers with a copy of the final offering
circular or a notice with the uniform resource locator (URL) where the final
offering circular may be obtained on EDGAR and contact information
sufficient to notify a purchaser where a request for a final offering circular can
be sent and received in response; and

26

See, e.g., Securities Offering Reform, Rel. No. 33-8591 (July 19, 2005) [70 FR 44722].

10

•

Permit issuers to file offering circular updates and supplements after
qualification of the offering statement in lieu of post-qualification
amendments in certain circumstances, including to provide the types of
information that may be excluded from a prospectus under Rule 430A.

•

Permit continuous or delayed offerings, but require issuers in continuous or
delayed Tier 2 offerings to be current in their annual and semiannual reporting
obligations in order to do so.

•

Permit issuers to qualify additional securities in reliance on Regulation A by filing
a post-qualification amendment to a qualified offering statement.

Offering statement:
•

Require issuers to file offering statements with the Commission electronically on
EDGAR.

•

Permit the non-public submission of offering statements and amendments for
review by Commission staff before filing such documents with the Commission,
so long as all such documents are publicly filed not later than 21 calendar days
before qualification.

•

Eliminate the Model A (Question-and-Answer) disclosure format under Part II of
Form 1-A.

•

Update and clarify Model B (Narrative) disclosure format under Part II of
Form 1-A (renamed, “Offering Circular”), while continuing to permit Part I of
Form S-1 narrative disclosure as an alternative.

•

Permit real estate investment trusts (REITs) and similarly eligible companies to
provide the narrative disclosure required by Part I of Form S-11 in Part II of

11

Form 1-A.
•

Require that offering statements be qualified by the Commission before sales may
be made pursuant to Regulation A.

•

Require Tier 1 and Tier 2 issuers to file balance sheets and related financial
statements for the two previous fiscal year ends (or for such shorter time that they
have been in existence).

•

Require Tier 2 issuers to include financial statements in their offering circulars
that are audited in accordance with either the auditing standards of the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) (referred to as U.S. Generally
Accepted Auditing Standards or GAAS) or the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB).

•

Require Tier 1 and Tier 2 issuers to include financial statements in Form 1-A that
are dated not more than nine months before the date of non-public submission,
filing, or qualification, with the most recent annual or interim balance sheet not
older than nine months. If interim financial statements are required, they must
cover a period of at least six months.

Ongoing reporting:
•

Require Tier 1 issuers to provide information about sales in such offerings and to
update certain issuer information by electronically filing a Form 1-Z exit report
with the Commission not later than 30 calendar days after termination or
completion of an offering.

•

Require Tier 2 issuers to file electronically with the Commission on EDGAR
annual and semiannual reports, as well as current event reports.

12

•

Require Tier 2 issuers to file electronically a special financial report to cover
financial periods between the most recent period included in a qualified offering
statement and the issuer’s first required periodic report.

•

Permit the ongoing reports filed by an issuer conducting a Tier 2 offering to
satisfy a broker-dealer’s obligations under Exchange Act Rule 15c2-11.

•

Provide that Tier 2 issuers’ reporting obligations under Regulation A would
suspend when they are subject to the ongoing reporting requirements of
Section 13 of the Exchange Act, and may also be suspended under Regulation A
at any time by filing a Form 1-Z exit report after completing reporting for the
fiscal year in which an offering statement was qualified, so long as the securities
of each class to which the offering statement relates are held of record by fewer
than 300 persons, or fewer than 1,200 persons for banks or bank holding
companies, and offers or sales made in reliance on a qualified Tier 2 Regulation A
offering statement are not ongoing. In certain circumstances, Tier 2 Regulation A
reporting obligations may terminate when issuers are no longer subject to the
ongoing reporting requirements of Section 13 of the Exchange Act.

•

Require Tier 2 issuers to include in their first annual report after termination or
completion of a qualified Regulation A offering, or in their Form 1-Z exit report,
information about sales in the terminated or completed offering and to update
certain issuer information.

•

Eliminate the requirement that issuers file a Form 2-A with the Commission to
report sales and the termination of sales made under Regulation A every six
months after qualification and within 30 calendar days after the termination,

13

completion, or final sale of securities in the offering.
Exchange Act registration:
•

Conditionally exempt securities issued in a Tier 2 offering from the mandatory
registration requirements of Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act, for so long as the
issuer engages the services of a transfer agent that is registered with the
Commission under Section 17A of the Exchange Act, remains subject to a Tier 2
reporting obligation, is current in its annual and semiannual reporting at fiscal
year end, and had a public float of less than $75 million as of the last business day
of its most recently completed semiannual period, or, in the absence of a public
float, had annual revenues of less than $50 million as of its most recently
completed fiscal year.

•

Permit Tier 2 issuers to use a Form 8-A short form registration statement
concurrently with the qualification of a Regulation A offering statement that
includes Part I of Form S-1 or Form S-11 narrative disclosure in Form 1-A in
order to register a class of securities under Sections 12(g) or 12(b) of the
Exchange Act.

“Bad actor” disqualification provisions:
•

Substantially conform the “bad actor” disqualification provisions of Rule 262 to
Rule 506(d) and add a disclosure requirement similar to Rule 506(e).

Application of state securities laws:
•

Provide for the preemption of state securities law registration and qualification
requirements for securities offered or sold to “qualified purchasers,” in light of the
total package of investor protections included in the final rules. A qualified

14

purchaser will be defined to be any person to whom securities are offered or sold
in a Tier 2 offering.
The Commission is required by Section 3(b)(5) of the Securities Act to review the
Tier 2 offering limitation every two years. In addition to revisiting the Tier 2 offering
limitation, the staff will also undertake to review the Tier 1 offering limitation at the same
time. The staff also will undertake to study and submit a report to the Commission no
later than 5 years following the adoption of the amendments to Regulation A, on the
impact of both the Tier 1 and Tier 2 offerings on capital formation and investor
protection. The report will include, but not be limited to, a review of: (1) the amount of
capital raised under the amendments; (2) the number of issuances and amount raised by
both Tier 1 and Tier 2 offerings; (3) the number of placement agents and brokers
facilitating the Regulation A offerings; (4) the number of Federal, State, or any other
actions taken against issuers, placement agents, or brokers with respect to both Tier 1 and
Tier 2 offerings; and (5) whether any additional investor protections are necessary for
either Tier 1 or Tier 2. Based on the information contained in the report, the Commission
may propose to either decrease or increase the offering limit for Tier 1, as appropriate.
B.

Scope of Exemption
1.

Eligible Issuers
a.

Proposed Rules

Section 401 of the JOBS Act does not include any express issuer eligibility
requirements. The proposed rules would have maintained Regulation A’s existing issuer

15

eligibility requirements and added two new categories of ineligible issuers. 27 The two
new categories would exclude issuers that are or have been subject to any order of the
Commission pursuant to Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act entered within five years
before the filing of the offering statement and issuers that are required to, but that have
not, filed with the Commission the ongoing reports required by the final rules during the
two years immediately preceding the filing of an offering statement. Additionally, we
requested comment on other potential changes to the existing issuer eligibility
requirements, including whether the exemption should be limited to “operating
companies,” United States domestic issuers, or issuers that use a certain amount of the
proceeds raised in a Regulation A offering in the United States. We also solicited
comment on whether we should extend issuer eligibility to non-Canadian foreign issuers,
business development companies as defined in Section 2(a)(48) of the Investment
Company Act of 1940 (BDCs), 28 blank check companies, 29 or Exchange Act reporting
companies, or, alternatively, eliminate shell companies or REITs from the exemptive
regime.

27

Existing Regulation A limits issuer eligibility to issuers organized, and with a principal place of
business, in the United States or Canada, while excluding Exchange Act reporting companies,
investment companies, including business development companies, development stage companies
that have no specific business plan or purpose or have indicated that their business plan is to
engage in a merger or acquisition with an unidentified company or companies, issuers of fractional
undivided interests in oil or gas rights or a similar interest in other mineral rights, and issuers
disqualified because of Rule 262, 17 CFR 230.262 (2014). See 17 CFR 230.251(a) (2014).

28

15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(48).

29

“Blank check companies” are development stage companies that have no specific business plan or
purpose or have indicated that their business plan is to engage in a merger or acquisition with an
unidentified company or companies. See Securities Act Rule 419(a)(2)(i), 17 CFR
230.419(a)(2)(i); see also SEC Rel. No. 33-6949 [57 FR 36442] (July 30, 1992), at fn. 50
(clarifying that blank check companies regardless of whether they are issuing penny stock are
precluded from relying on Regulation A).

16

b.

Comments on the Proposed Rules

Commenters expressed a wide range of views on the proposed issuer eligibility
requirements. A number of commenters expressed general support for the proposed
issuer eligibility requirements. 30 Many commenters expressly supported the new
proposed issuer eligibility criterion relating to the requirement to be current in Tier 2
ongoing reporting obligations. 31 One commenter also expressly supported the proposed
exclusion of issuers subject to an order of the Commission entered pursuant to
Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act from the list of eligible issuers. 32 Other commenters
suggested additional limitations on issuer eligibility, including: a requirement that issuers
be “operating companies,” 33 excluding shell companies and issuers of penny stock, 34 and

30

Letter from Catherine T. Dixon, Chair, Federal Regulation of Securities Committee, Business Law
Section, American Bar Association, April 3, 2014 (“ABA BLS Letter”); Letter from Gabrielle
Buckley, Chair, Section of International Law, American Bar Association, May 14, 2014 (“ABA
SIL Letter”); Letter from Andrew F. Viles, Canaccord Letter Genuity Inc., March 27, 2014
(“Canaccord Letter”); Letter from Pw Carey, March 24, 2014 (“Carey Letter”); Letter from Kurt
N. Schacht, CFA, Managing Director, Standards and Financial Market Integrity, and Linda L.
Rittenhouse, Director, Capital Markets, CFA Institute, March 24, 2014 (“CFA Institute Letter”);
Letter from Kim Wales, Executive Board Member, Crowdfund Intermediary Regulatory
Advocates (CFIRA), May 14, 2014 (“CFIRA Letter 1”); Letter from Christopher Tyrrell, Chair,
Crowdfunding Intermediary Regulatory Advocates, February 23, 2015 (“CFIRA Letter 2”);
Robert R. Kaplan, Jr. and T. Rhys James, Kaplan Voekler Cunningham & Frank PLC, March 23,
2014 (“KVCF Letter”); Letter from William F. Galvin, Secretary, Commonwealth of
Massachusetts, March 24, 2014 (“Massachusetts Letter 2”); Letter from Morrison & Foerster LLP,
March 26, 2014 (“MoFo Letter”); Letter from Andrea Seidt, President, North American Securities
Administrators Association (NASAA) and Ohio Securities Commissioner, March 24, 2014
(“NASAA Letter 2”); Letter from William M. Beatty, Securities Administrator, Washington
Department of Financial Institutions, March 24, 2014 (“WDFI Letter”); Letter from William R.
Hambrecht, Chairman, WR Hambrecht+ Co, March 4, 2014 (“WR Hambrecht + Co Letter”).

31

ABA BLS Letter; CFA Institute Letter; Massachusetts Letter 2; NASAA Letter 2; WDFI Letter.

32

CFA Institute Letter.

33

CFIRA Letter 1; WR Hambrecht + Co Letter (suggesting that limiting the availability of the
exemption to, among other things, operating companies would provide investors with more
confidence in the offerings conducted pursuant to Regulation A). But see KVCF Letter
(suggesting that limiting availability of the exemption to operating companies would unnecessarily
limit the utility of the exemption).

34

ABA BLS Letter; MoFo Letter.

17

excluding other types of investment vehicles, such as commodity pools and investment
funds that invest in gold or virtual currencies. 35
A few commenters recommended allowing blank check companies and special
purpose acquisition companies (SPACs) to rely on Regulation A. 36 One of these
commenters recommended allowing blank check companies seeking to raise at least
$10 million to use Regulation A in the same manner as any other eligible issuer, but
suggested that, if a company is raising less than $10 million in a Tier 2 offering, the
Commission should implement certain additional requirements. 37 Another commenter
recommended allowing issuers of fractional interests in oil and gas or other mineral rights
to rely on Regulation A based on a “reasonable” eligibility test to be developed by the
Commission. 38 Several commenters opposed any change to the proposed issuer
eligibility requirements that would exclude REITs from participating in Regulation A
offerings. 39 Other commenters advocated expanding the current categories of eligible

35

Massachusetts Letter 2.

36

Gilman Law Letter; Letter from Mark Goldberg, Chairman, Investment Program Association,
March 24, 2014 (“IPA Letter”); Letter from David N. Feldman, Partner, Richardson Patel LLP,
January 15, 2014 (“Richardson Patel Letter”). A SPAC is a type of blank check company created
specifically to pool funds in order to finance a merger or acquisition opportunity within a set
timeframe.

37

Richardson Patel Letter (recommending that for offerings of less than $10 million under Tier 2,
the rules should require that: (a) monies raised be placed into escrow, minus underwriters
compensation and 10% for offering expenses, until a reverse merger is completed; (b) a
combination with an operating business be completed within three years; (c) full Form 10
information be disclosed regarding a pending reverse merger to investors who will have 15-20
days to reconfirm their investment or receive their money back; (d) there be no requirement that a
certain percentage of investors reconfirm; and (e) accredited investors have no limit on the
investment they make in the offering).

38

Letter from Mark Kosanke, President, Real Estate Investment Securities Association, March 24,
2014 (“REISA Letter”) (suggesting that the Commission base the eligibility test on the issuer
having an “established track record” or some minimum amount of assets).

39

ABA BLS Letter; Letter from Gilman Law LLC, March 24, 2014 (“Gilman Law Letter”); MoFo
Letter; Letter from Serenity Storage, January 5, 2014 (“Serenity Storage Letter”).

18

issuers, and specifically supported the continued inclusion of Canadian companies and
shell companies as eligible issuers, as proposed. 40
(1)

Non-Canadian Foreign Issuers

Many commenters recommended making non-Canadian foreign companies
eligible issuers under Regulation A. 41 Several commenters suggested that the proposed
approach to non-Canadian foreign companies is inconsistent with the treatment of foreign
private issuers in registered offerings. 42 Additionally, commenters noted a variety of
benefits arising from allowing foreign companies to access the U.S. capital markets
through Regulation A offerings, including job creation, 43 increasing the amount of
disclosure available for investors in foreign companies, 44 encouraging domestic exchange
listings, 45 expanding investment opportunities for U.S. investors, 46 and general economic
40

Letter from Jonathan C. Guest, McCarter & English, LLP, February 19, 2014 (“McCarter &
English Letter”) (also opposing any limitation on issuer eligibility on the basis of whether most of
the offering proceeds were being used in connection with the issuer’s operations in the United
States, noting that many Canadian issuers would be excluded as a result); OTC Markets Letter.

41

ABA SIL Letter; Letter from Scott Kupor, Managing Partner, Andreessen Horowitz, and Jeffrey
M. Solomon, Chief Executive Officer, Cowen and Company, February 26, 2014
(“Andreessen/Cowen Letter”); Letter from BDO USA, LLP, March 20, 2104 (“BDO Letter”);
Canaccord Letter (suggesting expanding issuer eligibility to companies organized in jurisdictions
with “robust securities regulation systems” such as the United Kingdom and other countries in the
European Union, Australia, and Asian markets such as Singapore and Hong Kong); McCarter &
English Letter; OTC Markets Letter; Richardson Patel Letter; Letter from Michael T. Lempres,
Assistant General Counsel, SVB Financial Group, March 21, 2014 (“SVB Financial Letter”);
Letter from Bill Soby, Managing Director, Silicon Valley Global Shares, March 24, 2014 (“SVGS
Letter”).

42

Andreessen/Cowen Letter; BDO Letter; Richardson Patel Letter. In the context of registered
offerings, foreign private issuers may provide scaled disclosure if it qualifies as a “smaller
reporting company,” which is defined in Item 10(f)(1) of Regulation S-K, 17 CFR 229.10(f)(1),
Securities Act Rule 405, 17 CFR 230.405, and Exchange Act Rule 12b-2, 17 CFR 240.12b-2, and
rely on other disclosure accommodations.

43

ABA SIL Letter; SVGS Letter (noting that high-paying jobs would be created by expanding
global tech companies).

44

SVB Financial Letter.

45

Andreessen/Cowen Letter; SVB Financial Letter.

46

Andreessen/Cowen Letter; OTC Markets Letter.

19

benefits. 47 One commenter recommended making all foreign private issuers eligible if
they maintained a principal place of business in the United States. 48 Two commenters
also recommended permitting companies relying on Exchange Act Rule 12g3-2(b) to
make offerings under Regulation A. 49
(2)

BDCs

A number of commenters supported making BDCs eligible issuers under
Regulation A. 50 Most of these commenters noted that BDCs serve an important function
in facilitating small or emerging business capital formation or in providing a bridge from
the private to public markets. 51 Several of these commenters recommended at least
allowing small business investment company (SBIC) licensed BDCs to use the
exemption given the review process such entities are required to undergo with the U.S.
Small Business Administration. 52 One of these commenters noted that if BDCs become

47

ABA SIL Letter; Andreessen/Cowen Letter; McCarter & English Letter; SVB Financial Letter.

48

ABA SIL Letter.

49

McCarter & English Letter; OTC Markets Letter. Rule 12g3-2(b) generally provides foreign
private issuers with an automatic exemption from registration under Section 12(g) if the issuer
(i) is not required to file reports under Exchange Act Sections 13(a) or 15(d); (ii) maintains a
listing of the subject class of securities on one or two exchanges in non-U.S. jurisdictions that
comprise more than 55% of its worldwide trading volume; and (iii) publishes in English on its
website certain material items of information. See 17 CFR 240.12g3-2(b).

50

ABA BLS Letter; CFIRA Letter 1; Letter from Michael Sauvante, Executive Director,
Commonwealth Fund LLC, March 21, 2014 (“Commonwealth Fund Letter 1”); Letter from
Michael Sauvante, Executive Director, Commonwealth Fund LLC, March 22, 2014
(“Commonwealth Fund Letter 2”); KVCF Letter; Letter from Daniel Gorfine, Director, Financial
Markets Policy, and Staci Warden, Executive Director, Center for Financial Markets, Milken
Institute, March 19, 2014 (“Milken Institute Letter”); MoFo Letter; REISA Letter; SBIA Letter;
WR Hambrecht + Co Letter.

51

ABA BLS Letter; CFIRA Letter 1; Commonwealth Fund Letter 1; Commonwealth Fund Letter 2;
KVCF Letter; Milken Institute Letter; MoFo Letter; REISA Letter; SBIA Letter; WR Hambrecht
+ Co Letter.

52

Milken Institute Letter; SBIA Letter. A SBIC-licensed BDC is a company that is licensed by the
Small Business Administration (SBA) to operate as such under the Small Business Investment Act
of 1958.

20

eligible to use Regulation A, the Commission should consider requiring them to provide
quarterly financial disclosure so as to enhance transparency and provide the market with
critical investment information. 53
(3)

Potential Limits on Issuer Size

Several commenters opposed using the issuer’s size to limit eligibility. 54 Two of
these commenters thought that the $50 million offering limit for Tier 2 would already
limit the utility of the exemption for issuers on the basis of issuer size—with smaller
issuers likely benefitting most from the exemption—and recommended against sizebased eligibility criteria that may be difficult to define. 55 One commenter suggested that
most issuers with a large public float would likely be subject to Exchange Act reporting
requirements and therefore would be ineligible to use Regulation A. 56 Another
commenter noted that a size restriction based on public float would be particularly
harmful to biotechnology companies, because they often have a public float that is
disproportionately high in relation to their corporate structure, number of employees, or
revenues. 57
(4)

Exchange Act Reporting Companies

53

Milken Institute Letter.

54

Letter from E. Cartier Esham, Executive Vice President, Emerging Companies, Biotechnology
Industry Organization (BIO), March 11, 2014 (“BIO Letter”); IPA Letter; Letter from Tom
Quaadman, Vice President, Center for Capital Markets Competitiveness, U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, March 24, 2014 (“U.S. Chamber of Commerce Letter”).

55

BIO Letter; U.S. Chamber of Commerce Letter.

56

IPA Letter.

57

BIO Letter.

21

A number of commenters supported allowing Exchange Act reporting companies
to conduct offerings under Regulation A. 58 Several of these commenters recommended
allowing Exchange Act reporting companies that are current in their reporting obligations
to conduct Tier 2 offerings, 59 with one commenter limiting its recommendation to
companies with a non-affiliate float of less than $250 million.60 Three commenters
further suggested that, if Exchange Act reporting companies are permitted to conduct
offerings pursuant to Regulation A, Exchange Act reporting should satisfy any
Regulation A reporting obligation. 61 One such commenter further suggested that
Exchange Act reporting companies should be required to be current in their Exchange
Act reporting obligations in order to be eligible to rely on the exemption, in a manner that
is consistent with Regulation A as it existed before 1992. 62
c.

Final Rules

We are adopting the issuer eligibility criteria as proposed. Under the final rules,
Regulation A will be limited to companies organized in and with their principal place of
business in the United States or Canada. It will be unavailable to:
•

companies subject to the ongoing reporting requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Exchange Act;

58

Andreessen/Cowen Letter; BIO Letter; OTC Markets Letter; Letter from U.S. Senator Pat Roberts,
May 27, 2014 (“Sen. Roberts Letter”); Letter from Jack H. Brier, President and Founder, US
Alliance Corporation, March 19, 2014 (“US Alliance Corp. Letter”).

59

Andreessen/Cowen Letter; BIO Letter; OTC Markets Letter.

60

BIO Letter.

61

Andreessen/Cowen Letter; CFIRA Letter 1; OTC Markets Letter.

62

CFIRA Letter 1. Before amendments to Regulation A were adopted in 1992, Exchange Act
reporting companies were permitted to conduct offerings in reliance on Regulation A, provided
they were current in their public reporting. See 17 CFR 230.252(f) (1992).

22

•

companies registered or required to be registered under the Investment Company
Act of 1940 and BDCs;

•

blank check companies;

•

issuers of fractional undivided interests in oil or gas rights, or similar interests in
other mineral rights;

•

issuers that are required to, but that have not, filed with the Commission the
ongoing reports required by the rules under Regulation A during the two years
immediately preceding the filing of a new offering statement (or for such shorter
period that the issuer was required to file such reports);

•

issuers that are or have been subject to an order by the Commission denying,
suspending, or revoking the registration of a class of securities pursuant to
Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act that was entered within five years before the
filing of the offering statement; 63 and

•

issuers subject to “bad actor” disqualification under Rule 262. 64

We expect that the amendments we are adopting will significantly expand the utility of
the Regulation A offering exemption.
Our approach in the final rules is generally to maintain the issuer eligibility
requirements of existing Regulation A with the limited addition of two new categories of
ineligible issuers. We believe this approach will provide important continuity in the
Regulation A regime as it expands in the way Congress mandated. For this reason, we do
not believe it is necessary to adopt final rules to exclude issuers that are currently eligible
63

See Rule 251(b).

64

See Rule 262.

23

to conduct Regulation A offerings. Additionally, we recognize that expanding the
categories of eligible issuers, as suggested by a number of commenters, could provide
certain benefits, including increased investment opportunities for investors and avenues
for capital formation for certain issuers. We are concerned, however, about the
implications of extending issuer eligibility before the Commission has the ability to
assess the impact of the changes to Regulation A being adopted today. In light of these
changes, we believe it prudent to defer expanding the categories of eligible issuers (for
example, by including non-Canadian foreign issuers, BDCs, or Exchange Act reporting
companies) until the Commission has had the opportunity to observe the use of the
amended Regulation A exemption and assess any new market practices as they develop.
Additionally, we are not adopting further restrictions on eligibility at this time. In
light of the disclosure requirements contained in the final rules, we do not believe that it
is necessary to exclude additional types of issuers, such as shell companies, issuers of
penny stock, or other types of investment vehicles, from relying on the exemption in
Regulation A. At the same time, we are concerned about potentially increased risks to
investors that could result from extending issuer eligibility to other types of entities, such
as blank check companies, before the Commission has the opportunity to observe
developing market practices. We therefore believe the prudent approach with respect to
any potential expansion of issuer eligibility is to give the Regulation A market time to
develop under rules that we are adopting today. We also do not believe it is necessary to
limit availability of the exemption to issuers of a certain size, as we agree with
commenters that suggested that the annual offering limit will serve to limit the utility of
the exemption for larger issuers in need of greater amounts of capital. We further do not

24

believe that it is appropriate to limit the availability of the exemption to “operating
companies,” as that term would restrict availability of the exemption to fewer issuers than
are currently eligible under Regulation A, such as by excluding shell companies.
As proposed, the final rules include two new issuer eligibility requirements that
add important investor protections to Regulation A. First, potential issuers must have
filed all required ongoing reports under Regulation A during the two years immediately
preceding the filing of a new offering statement (or for such shorter period that the issuer
was required to file such reports) to remain eligible to conduct offerings pursuant to the
rules. This requirement will benefit investors by providing them with more information,
with respect to issuers that have previously made a Regulation A offering, to consider
when making an investment decision, facilitate the development of an efficient secondary
market in such securities, and enhance our ability to analyze and observe the
Regulation A market. Second, issuers subject to orders by the Commission entered
pursuant to Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act within a five-year period immediately
preceding the filing of the offering statement will not be eligible to conduct an offering
pursuant to Regulation A. This requirement will increase investor protection and
compliment the exclusion of delinquent Regulation A filers discussed immediately above
by excluding issuers with a demonstrated history of delinquent filings under the
Exchange Act from the pool of eligible issuers under Regulation A.
2.

Eligible Securities
a.

Proposed Rules

Section 3(b)(3) of the Securities Act limits the availability of any exemption
enacted under Section 3(b)(2) to “equity securities, debt securities, and debt securities

25

convertible or exchangeable into equity interests, including any guarantees of such
securities.” 65 The proposed rules would have limited the types of securities eligible for
sale under both Tier 1 and Tier 2 of Regulation A to the specifically enumerated list of
securities in Section 3(b)(3) and also would have excluded asset-backed securities, as
defined in Regulation AB, from the list of eligible securities.
b.

Comments on the Proposed Rules

Several commenters supported the exclusion of asset-backed securities from the
list of eligible securities. 66 One commenter recommended clarifying that warrants
exercisable for equity or debt securities are eligible securities. 67
c.

Final Rules

We are adopting final rules that limit the types of securities eligible for sale under
Regulation A to the specifically enumerated list in Section 3(b)(3), which includes
warrants and convertible equity securities, among other equity and debt securities. 68 The
final rules exclude asset-backed securities from the list of eligible securities.
Asset-backed securities are subject to the provisions of Regulation AB and other rules
specifically tailored to the offering process, disclosure, and reporting requirements for
such securities. These rules were not in effect when Regulation A was last updated in

65

15 U.S.C. 77c(b)(3).

66

ABA BLS Letter; Carey Letter; Massachusetts Letter 2; NASAA Letter 2; WDFI Letter.

67

ABA BLS Letter.

68

See Rule 261(c); see also Rule 405 (defining “equity security” to include, among other things,
warrants and certain convertible securities). We have also revised the proposed definition in
Rule 261(c) to clarify that all securities, rather than just equity securities, that are convertible or
exchangeable into equity interests are eligible, subject to the other terms of Regulation A.

26

1992. 69 We do not believe that Section 401 of the JOBS Act was enacted to facilitate the
issuance of asset-backed securities.
3.

Offering Limitations and Secondary Sales
a.

Proposed Rules

We proposed to amend Regulation A to create two tiers of requirements: Tier 1,
for offerings of up to $5 million of securities in a 12-month period; and Tier 2, for
offerings of up to $50 million of securities in a 12-month period. 70 As proposed, issuers
could conduct offerings of up to $5 million under either Tier 1 or Tier 2. Consistent with
the existing provisions of Regulation A, we also proposed to permit sales by selling
securityholders of up to 30% of the maximum offering amount permitted under the
applicable tier ($1.5 million in any 12-month period for Tier 1 and $15 million in any
12-month period for Tier 2). Sales by selling securityholders under either tier would be
aggregated with sales by the issuer for purposes of calculating the maximum permissible
amount of securities that may be sold during any 12-month period. In addition, we
proposed to eliminate the last sentence of Rule 251(b), which prohibits affiliate resales
unless the issuer has had net income from continuing operations in at least one of its last
two fiscal years.

69

Regulation AB, 17 CFR 229.1100 et seq., went into effect in 2005. See Rel. No. 33-8518
(Dec. 22, 2004). Asset-backed securities are defined in Rule 1101(c)(1) to generally mean a
security that is primarily serviced by the cash flows of a discrete pool of receivables or other
financial asset, either fixed or revolving, that by its terms converts into cash within a finite time
period.

70

As proposed, if the offering included securities that were convertible, exercisable, or exchangeable
for other securities, the offer and sale of the underlying securities would also be required to be
qualified and the aggregate offering price would include the aggregate conversion, exercise, or
exchange price of such securities, regardless of when they become convertible, exercisable, or
exchangeable.

27

b.

Comments on the Proposed Rules

Commenters were generally supportive of the proposed offering limitations on
primary and secondary offerings. Many commenters, however, suggested changes to the
proposed offering limits for both tiers, as well as to the proposed limits on secondary
sales.
(1)

Offering Limitation

Several commenters recommended that the Commission increase the $50 million
offering limitation for Tier 2. 71 As an alternative, one commenter recommended
applying the $50 million limit on a per offering basis rather than on a 12-month basis,
and suggested that the Commission consider eliminating the offering limits for certain
types of issuers, such as those that have yet to generate revenue. 72 Additionally, two
commenters recommended that the Commission do more to increase the utility of Tier 1
offerings by raising the Tier 1 offering limitation to $10 million or more in a 12-month
period. 73 Another commenter suggested that the Commission create a third tier in
between Tier 1 and Tier 2 that would have a $15 million offering limitation. 74

71

Letter from Salomon Kamalodine, Director, Investment Banking, B. Riley & Co., March 24, 2014
(“B. Riley Letter”); Letter from William Klehm, Chairman and CEO, Fallbrook Technologies,
March 22, 2014 (“Fallbrook Technologies Letter”) (recommended raising the limit to $75
million); OTC Markets Letter (recommended raising the limit to $80 million); Jason Coombs, CoFounder and CEO, Public Startup Company, Inc., March 24, 2014 (“Public Startup Co. Letter 1”)
(recommended raising the limit to $75 million); Richardson Patel Letter (recommended raising the
limit to $100 million).

72

Richardson Patel Letter.

73

Letter from Samuel S Guzik, Guzik and Associates, March 24, 2014 (“Guzik Letter 1”)
(recommended raising the limit to “at least $10 million”); Letter from Christopher Cole, Senior
Vice President and Senior Regulatory Counsel, Independent Community Bankers of America,
March 25, 2014 (“ICBA Letter”) (encouraged increasing the limit “from $5 million to $10
million”).

74

Public Startup Co. Letter 1.

28

With respect to offering limit calculations, one commenter recommended that the
aggregate offering price of the underlying security only be included in the $50 million
offering limitation during the 12-month period in which such security is first convertible,
exercisable, or exchangeable. 75 This commenter suggested that its recommended
approach would accommodate common small business offering structures that involve
warrants exercisable at a premium over several years.
(2)

Secondary Sales Offering Limitation

Several commenters specifically supported the proposed limitations on secondary
sales. 76 While some commenters indicated their support for resale limitations, 77 they
expressed a preference for either proscribing resales entirely 78 or requiring the approval
of the resale offering by a majority of the issuer’s independent directors upon a finding
that the offering is in the best interests of both the selling securityholders and the issuer. 79
One commenter recommended prohibiting resales under Regulation A entirely. 80
Another commenter recommended requiring selling securityholders to hold the issuer’s
securities for 12 months before being eligible to sell pursuant to Regulation A, in order to
distinguish between investors seeking to invest in a business and investors simply seeking
to sell to the public for a gain. 81
75

Andreessen/Cowen Letter; cf. Proposing Release, fn. 112.

76

Massachusetts Letter 2; NASAA Letter 2; Richardson Patel Letter; WDFI Letter.

77

Massachusetts Letter 2; NASAA Letter 2; WDFI Letter.

78

Massachusetts Letter 2; NASAA Letter 2.

79

NASAA Letter 2 (supporting the proposed limits coupled with a board approval requirement in
lieu of prohibiting resales entirely); WDFI Letter (not expressing a preference for prohibiting
resales entirely).

80

Carey Letter.

81

Letter from Andrew M. Hartnett, Missouri Commissioner of Securities, March 24, 2014 (“MCS
Letter”).

29

Many other commenters recommended raising the resale limits or eliminating
them entirely. 82 One such commenter recommended alternatively removing non-affiliate
securityholders from the resale limitation since concerns over investor information
asymmetries would be reduced when dealing with non-affiliate securityholders. 83 This
commenter also recommended that the Commission reevaluate the need for resale limits
within a year of implementing the rules. Another commenter also recommended
allowing for unlimited sales by non-affiliate selling securityholders and further suggested
that the rules not aggregate such sales with issuer sales. 84 Two commenters suggested
that limitations on resales are contrary to the Congressional intent behind the enactment
of Title IV of the JOBS Act. 85
(3)

Rule 251(b)

Many commenters specifically supported the proposed elimination of the
requirement that issuers must have had net income from continuing operations in at least
one of its last two fiscal years in order for affiliate resales to be permitted, generally
noting that many companies have net losses for many years, including, for example, due
to high research and development costs. 86

82

ABA BLS Letter; B. Riley Letter; Canaccord Letter; CFIRA Letter 1; Milken Institute Letter;
MoFo Letter; Richardson Patel Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co Letter.

83

Milken Institute Letter.

84

B. Riley Letter.

85

CFIRA Letter 1; WR Hambrecht + Co Letter (noting that the JOBS Act contemplated an increase
in the offering threshold to $50 million, but did not limit the percentage that could be sold by
selling securityholders).

86

ABA BLS Letter; B. Riley Letter; Canaccord Letter; CFIRA Letter 1; Milken Institute Letter;
MoFo Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co Letter.

30

c.

Final Rules

We are adopting the proposed amendments to Regulation A with modifications to
the Tier 1 offering limitation and the secondary sales offering limitation. We discuss
these amendments in detail below. We are also making a technical change to clarify the
description of how compliance with the offering limitations is calculated in
Rule 251(a). 87
Tier 1
As discussed more fully in the “Additional Considerations for Smaller Offerings”
section below, we are making changes to the proposed rules in response to comments and
to increase the utility of Tier 1 of the Regulation A exemption. 88 Several commenters 89
and a report on the impact of state securities law requirements on offerings conducted
under Regulation A by the U.S Government Accountability Office (GAO), as required by
Section 402 of the JOBS Act, 90 highlighted the $5 million offering limitation in existing
Regulation A as one of the main factors limiting the utility of the exemption. In certain
circumstances, fixed costs associated with conducting Regulation A offerings, such as
legal and accounting fees, may serve as a disincentive to use the exemption for lower
offering amounts. We are therefore increasing the offering limitation in the final rules for
87

The proposed rules used the phrase “aggregate offering price for all securities sold” when
discussing the gross proceeds resulting from prior or anticipated sales of securities under
Regulation A. We have clarified Rule 257(a)(1) to define as “aggregate sales” gross proceeds
within the prior 12 month time frame contemplated by Regulation A. We have also made
conforming changes elsewhere in the final rules and forms.

88

See Section II.I. below.

89

See, e.g., Guzik Letter 1; ICBA Letter; Public Startup Co. Letter 1.

90

Factors that May Affect Trends in Regulation A Offerings, GAO-12-839 (July 2012) (the “GAO
Report”) (available at: http://www.gao.gov/assets/600/592113.pdf). The GAO Report concludes
that it is unclear whether increasing the Regulation A offering ceiling from $5 million to $50
million will improve the utility of the exemption.

31

Tier 1 offerings in a 12-month period from the proposed $5 million limitation to
$20 million. 91 We believe that raising the offering limitation for Tier 1 offerings, in
addition to other changes discussed in Section II.I. below, will increase the utility of the
exemption for smaller issuers by providing them with additional options for capital
formation and potentially increasing the proceeds received by the issuer. Consistent with
the proportionate limitation on secondary sales in the proposed rules, we are also
increasing the limitation on secondary sales in Tier 1 offerings in a 12-month period from
the proposed $1.5 million limitation to $6 million.
Tier 2
We are adopting the proposed $50 million Tier 2 offering limitation. 92 Some
commenters suggested that we raise the offering limitation to an amount above the
statutory limitation set forth in Section 3(b)(2), but we do not believe an increase is
warranted at this time. While Regulation A has existed as an exemption from registration
for some time, today’s changes are significant. We believe that the final rules for
Regulation A will provide for a meaningful addition to the existing capital formation
options of smaller companies while maintaining important investor protections. We are
concerned, however, about expanding the offering limitation of the exemption beyond the
level directly contemplated in Section 3(b)(2) at the outset of the adoption of final rules.
As noted above in Section II.B.1., the final rules do not limit issuer eligibility on the basis
of issuer size, as we believe that the $50 million annual offering limitation will serve to
91

Rule 251(a)(1). We intend to revisit the Tier 1 offering limitation at the same time that we are
required by Section 3(b)(5) of the Securities Act to review the Tier 2 offering limitation and will
consider whether additional investor protections would be necessary if the Tier 1 offering
limitation is increased.

92

Rule 251(a)(2).

32

limit the utility of the exemption for larger issuers in need of greater amounts of capital.
Similarly, we believe that the more extensive disclosure requirements associated with
Exchange Act reporting are more appropriate for larger and generally more complex
issuers that raise money in the public capital markets. 93 We are therefore concerned that
an increase in the offering limitation at this time may increase risks to investors by
encouraging larger issuers to conduct offerings pursuant to Regulation A in instances
where disclosure pursuant to a registered offering under the Securities Act would be more
appropriate.
The Commission is required by Section 401 of the JOBS Act to review the
Section 3(b)(2) offering limitation every two years, and we will consider the use of the
final rules by market participants as part of that review. We will therefore revisit the
offering limitation by April 2016, as required by the statute, with a view to considering
whether to increase the $50 million offering limitation. We also are adopting the
proposed $15 million limitation on secondary sales for Tier 2 as proposed, with a change
in the application of the limitation for secondary sales under both Tier 1 and Tier 2
discussed in the following section.
Application of the Limitation on Secondary Sales
As noted in the Proposing Release, secondary sales are an important part of
Regulation A. We believe that allowing selling securityholders access to avenues for
liquidity will encourage them to invest in companies, although we acknowledge that
providing for secondary sales in any amount may give rise to certain concerns. As
highlighted by at least one commenter at the pre-proposing stage, permitting some
93

See discussion in Section III.C.3. below.

33

secondary sales pursuant to Regulation A could place investors at an informational
disadvantage to selling securityholders who have potentially greater access to inside
information about the issuer and does not necessarily provide capital to the issuer. 94
Other commenters stated that such concerns are misplaced in the context of secondary
sales by non-affiliates, who generally do not have access to inside information. 95
We do not believe that a wholesale prohibition on secondary sales, as suggested
by some commenters, is appropriate or necessary for either Tier 1 or Tier 2 of
Regulation A. However, in order to strike an appropriate balance between allowing
selling securityholders continued access to avenues for liquidity in Regulation A and the
concern that secondary offerings do not directly provide new capital to companies and
could pose the potential risks to investors discussed above, the final rules continue to
permit secondary sales but provide additional limitations on secondary sales in the first
year. The final rules limit the amount of securities that selling securityholders can sell at
the time of an issuer’s first Regulation A offering and within the following 12 months to
no more than 30% of the aggregate offering price of a particular offering. 96 While the
final rules continue to provide selling securityholders with the flexibility to sell securities
during this period, we believe that this approach to the final rules will help to ensure that
secondary sales at the time of such offerings will be made in conjunction with capital
raising events by the issuer.

94

Letter from A. Heath Abshure, President, NASAA, April 10, 2013 (“NASAA (pre-proposal)
Letter”).

95

See, e.g., Milken Institute Letter.

96

Rule 251(a)(3) (Additional limitation on secondary sales in first year).

34

Further, we are providing different requirements for secondary sales by affiliates
and by non-affiliates. The final rules limit secondary sales by affiliates that occur
following the expiration of the first year after an issuer’s initial qualification of an
offering statement to no more than $6 million, in the case of Tier 1 offerings, or no more
than $15 million, in the case of Tier 2 offerings, over a 12-month period. Secondary
sales by non-affiliates that are made pursuant to a qualified offering statement following
the expiration of the first year after an issuer’s initial qualification of an offering
statement will not be limited except by the maximum offering amount permitted by either
Tier 1 or Tier 2. 97 Although the secondary sales offering amount limitation will only
apply to affiliates during this period, consistent with the proposal, non-affiliate secondary
sales will be aggregated with sales by the issuer and sales by affiliates for purposes of
calculating compliance with the maximum offering amount permissible under the
respective tiers. 98
We do not believe that the concerns expressed by one commenter about
informational disadvantages that may exist with affiliate sales are present with respect to
resales by non-affiliates. 99 On the contrary, in comparison to requirements for
non-affiliate resales of restricted securities after the expiration of Securities Act Rule 144
holding periods, 100 we believe that Regulation A provides purchasers of such securities
97

Rule 251(a).

98

Secondary sales of shares acquired in a Regulation A offering—which are freely tradable—are not
subject to limitations on secondary sales, but must be resold under an exemption from Securities
Act registration (e.g., Section 4(a)(1), 15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(1)).

99

NASAA (pre-proposal) Letter.

100

Under Rule 144, non-affiliates of an issuer are, among other things, permitted to resell restricted
securities after the expiration of a one-year holding period without limitations or requirements as
to: (i) the availability of current public information about the issuer or its securities, (ii) the
volume of resales, (iii) the manner of sale, or (iv) disclosure. See 17 CFR 230.144.

35

with the benefit of, among other things, narrative and financial disclosure that is reviewed
and qualified by the Commission in transactions that are subject to Section 12(a)(2)
liability and the antifraud provisions of Section 17 of the Securities Act. 101
We also disagree with the commenters who suggested limitations on secondary
sales are contrary to the legislative intent behind the enactment of Title IV of the JOBS
Act. We note that Section 3(b)(2) expressly provides that the Commission may impose
additional terms, conditions, or requirements as it deems necessary in the public interest
and for the protection of investors. 102 For the reasons discussed above, we believe that
limiting secondary sales by affiliates is not only consistent with the language and purpose
of the statute but also necessary in the public interest and for the protection of investors.
Offering Limit Calculation
Under the proposal, if the offering included securities that are convertible into, or
exercisable or exchangeable for, other securities (rights to acquire), the offer and sale of
the underlying securities also would generally be required to be qualified, 103 and the
aggregate offering price would include the aggregate conversion, exercise, or exchange
price of such securities, regardless of when they become convertible, exercisable, or
exchangeable. 104 Consistent with the views of at least one commenter, 105 we are
concerned that the proposed requirement could have a greater impact on smaller issuers
101

15 U.S.C. 77l(a)(2), 77q.

102

See Section 3(b)(2)(G), 15 U.S.C. 77c(b)(2)(G).

103

Qualification would not be required for securities transactions exempt from registration pursuant
to Securities Act Section 3(a)(9), 15 U.S.C. 77c(a)(9). Section 3(a)(9) exempts from registration
any security exchanged by the issuer with its existing security holders exclusively where no
commission or other remuneration is paid or given directly or indirectly for soliciting such
exchange.

104

See note to proposed Rule 251(a).

105

Andreessen/Cowen Letter.

36

than larger issuers because smaller issuers frequently issue rights to acquire other
securities in capital raising events. The proposed method of calculating the offering limit
would presume the exercise price of underlying securities that, by their terms, may occur
at a date in the distant future or only upon the occurrence of key events. By including all
securities underlying any rights to acquire other securities in the offering limit
calculation, the proposed rules could effectively limit the proceeds of an offering
available to an issuer by requiring such issuers to include in the aggregate offering price
at the time of qualification the securities underlying rights to acquire that may or may not
become exercisable or exchangeable in the future. We are adopting final rules that will
require issuers to aggregate the price of all securities for which qualification is currently
being sought, including the securities underlying any rights to acquire that are
convertible, exercisable, or exchangeable within the first year after qualification or at the
discretion of the issuer. As such, and consistent with the treatment of rights to acquire in
the context of registered offerings, if an offering includes rights to acquire other securities
at a time more than one year after qualification and the issuer does not otherwise seek to
qualify such underlying securities, the aggregate offering price would not include the
aggregate conversion, exercise, or exchange price of the underlying securities. 106 For
purposes of calculating the price of underlying securities that use a pricing formula, as
opposed to a known conversion price, the issuer will be required to use the maximum
estimated price for which such securities may be converted, exercised, or exchanged. 107
106

See note to Rule 251(a). In these circumstances, the securities underlying the rights to acquire
would need to be separately qualified under Regulation A or, depending on the circumstances,
registered, exempt from registration, or otherwise offered in an appropriate manner at the time of
issuance.

107

Id.

37

Rule 251(b)
We are adopting as proposed final rules that eliminate the last sentence of
Rule 251(b), 108 which prohibited affiliate resales unless the issuer had net income from
continuing operations in at least one of its last two fiscal years. We agree with the views
expressed by commenters that the absence of net income, by itself, is not a sufficient
indicator of an enhanced risk that existing shareholders will use informational advantages
to transfer their holdings to the investing public that would necessitate the continued
application of the prohibition in the final rules. Further, as noted in the Proposing
Release, the Commission’s current disclosure review and qualification processes and
enforcement programs are significantly more sophisticated and robust than they were
when this provision was added to Regulation A in its original form. 109 In addition, the
final rules being adopted today include revised “bad actor” disqualification provisions
and additional issuer eligibility requirements aimed at limiting access to the exemption
for market participants with demonstrated track records of non-compliance or abuse. 110
4.

Investment Limitation
a.

Proposed Rules

Regulation A does not currently limit the amount of securities an investor can
purchase in a qualified Regulation A offering. As we noted in the Proposing Release,
however, we recognize that with the increased annual offering limitation provided in

108

17 CFR 230.251(b) (2014).

109

See Proposing Release, at Section II.B.3.

110

See discussions in Section II.G (Bad Actor Disqualification) below and Section II.B.1 (Eligible
Issuers) above.

38

Section 3(b)(2) comes a risk of commensurately greater investor losses. 111 To address
that risk we proposed, among other things, to limit the amount of securities investors can
purchase in a Tier 2 offering to no more than 10% of the greater of their annual income or
their net worth. For this purpose, annual income and net worth would be calculated as
provided in the accredited investor definition under Rule 501 of Regulation D. 112 Under
the proposal, issuers would be required to make investors aware of the investment
limitations, 113 but would otherwise be able to rely on an investor’s representation of
compliance with the proposed investment limitation unless the issuer knew, at the time of
sale, that any such representation was untrue.
b.

Comments on Proposed Rules

A number of commenters generally supported investment limitations for Tier 2
offerings. 114 These commenters believed that an investment limitation would serve as an
important investor protection. Several commenters recommended revisiting the necessity
of the limitations after a one- to three- year trial period, 115 and another commenter 116
recommended extending the investment limitation to Tier 1 offerings to make them more
consistent with our proposed rules for securities-based crowdfunding transactions
conducted pursuant to Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act. 117 Some commenters’

111

See Proposing Release, at Section II.B.4.

112

17 CFR 230.501.

113

See paragraph (a)(5) to Part II of proposed Form 1-A.

114

CFA Institute Letter; IPA Letter; Letter from Robert Kisel, Small Business Owner, March 18,
2014 (“Kisel Letter”) (erroneously referring to the 10% limit as a 5% limit); MCS Letter; REISA
Letter; Richardson Patel Letter; WDFI Letter.

115

CFIRA Letter 1; Kisel Letter; Milken Institute Letter.

116

CFA Institute Letter.

117

See Crowdfunding, Rel. No. 33-9470 [78 FR 66427] (Nov. 5, 2013).

39

support for the proposed investment limitations was conditioned on suggested changes to
the proposed rules that would require issuers to do more to ensure compliance with the
limitations and that would impose adverse consequences on issuers for the failure to do
so. 118 One commenter believed that the 10% limitation is “significantly higher” than is
appropriate for “all but the wealthiest, least risk averse” investors. 119 Two commenters
suggested that the 10% limitation should be aggregated across all Regulation A offerings
instead of being applied on a per offering basis, 120 while one commenter specifically
argued against such an aggregated limit. 121
Numerous commenters recommended eliminating the investment limitation for
Tier 2 offerings. 122 Several of these commenters alternatively recommended at least
doubling the limit if the provision is not eliminated entirely. 123 Other commenters
thought that the investment limitation is unnecessary in light of the other investor
protections for Tier 2 offerings, such as the expanded disclosure requirements. 124 Several
118

CFA Institute Letter; MCS Letter; WDFI Letter.

119

Letter from Barbara Roper, Director of Investor Protection, Consumer Federation of America,
March 24, 2014 (“CFA Letter”).

120

CFA Letter (not recommending this specifically, but noting this as one reason why the investment
limit was not an adequate substitute for state review of Tier 2 offerings); William A. Jacobson,
Clinical Professor of Law, Cornell Law School, and Director, Cornell Securities Law Clinic,
March 24, 2014 (“Cornell Clinic Letter”).

121

KVCF Letter.

122

ABA BLS Letter; Andreessen/Cowen Letter; B. Riley Letter; CFIRA Letter 1; CFIRA Letter 2;
Fallbrook Technologies Letter; Letter from Groundfloor Finance, Inc., Nov. 18, 2014
(“Groundfloor Letter”); Heritage Letter; ICBA Letter; IPA Letter; Letter from Ford C. Ladd, Esq.,
May 19, 2014 (“Ladd Letter 2”); Letter from John Rodenrys, Executive Director R&D, Leading
Biosciences, Inc., March 24, 2014 (“Leading Biosciences Letter”); Milken Institute Letter; MoFo
Letter; NASAA Letter 2; Letter from Michael L. Zuppone, Paul Hastings LLP, March 24, 2014
(“Paul Hastings Letter”); Letter from Jason Coombs, Co-Founder and CEO, Public Startup
Company, Inc., April 2, 2014 (“Public Startup Co. Letter 7”); SVB Financial Letter.

123

Fallbrook Technologies Letter; Leading Biosciences Letter; ICBA Letter.

124

ABA BLS Letter; Andreessen/Cowen Letter; B. Riley Letter; MoFo Letter; Paul Hastings Letter;
SVB Financial Letter.

40

commenters noted that the limit does not have a statutory basis and suggested that it may
be contrary to Congressional intent, 125 or contrary to the principles underlying federal
securities law, which focus on fraud prevention and full disclosure. 126 One commenter
recommended eliminating the investment limitations only if the final rules do not
preempt state law registration requirements for Tier 2 offerings, arguing that the
limitations may conflict with state investor suitability standards, 127 while another
commenter indicated that investment limitations would be unnecessary with appropriate
state oversight, but supported limits for retail investors in startup companies and high-risk
offerings. 128 Another commenter recommended creating various categories of investor
sophistication with corresponding requirements and limitations for each. 129
Many commenters, including those both for and against the investment limit,
recommended providing exceptions to the limit for certain types of investors, such as
accredited investors, or altering the application of the limit to such types of investors. 130
These commenters believed that the investor protections afforded by the investment limit
would not be necessary for all types of investors or in all types of Regulation A offerings.
Some commenters recommended eliminating the investment limit for accredited

125

ABA BLS Letter; Andreessen/Cowen Letter; CFIRA Letter 1; Heritage Letter; MoFo Letter; WR
Hambrecht + Co Letter.

126

ABA BLS Letter; B. Riley Letter; Heritage Letter; Milken Institute Letter.

127

Groundfloor Letter.

128

NASAA Letter 2.

129

Cornell Clinic Letter (recommending the tiered investment limits in our proposed rules for
securities-based crowdfunding as an example).

130

ABA BLS Letter; Andreessen/Cowen Letter; Canaccord Letter; Cornell Clinic Letter; Fallbrook
Technologies Letter; Heritage Letter; Ladd Letter 2; Leading Biosciences Letter; McCarter &
English Letter; MCS Letter; Milken Institute Letter; MoFo Letter; Paul Hastings Letter;
Richardson Patel Letter; SVB Financial Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co Letter.

41

investors. 131 One such commenter recommended eliminating the investment limit
generally and, if not, at least for institutional investors and offerings of securities listed on
securities exchanges. 132 Several commenters recommended eliminating the investment
limit for non-natural persons or institutional investors. 133 Other commenters
recommended eliminating the investment limits for other types of investors or
offerings. 134 Two commenters noted that it would be difficult to apply the investment
limits to non-natural persons (such as small businesses and IRAs) if the rules use an
income or net worth test. 135 One of these commenters recommended that, if the test
applies to such investors, it should be based on assets or revenue. 136
Many commenters explicitly supported allowing issuers to rely on an investor’s
representation of compliance with the 10% investment limit.137 Most of these

131

ABA BLS Letter; Andreessen/Cowen Letter; Canaccord Letter; Fallbrook Technologies Letter;;
Heritage Letter; Ladd Letter 2; Leading Biosciences Letter; McCarter & English Letter; MCS
Letter; MoFo Letter; Paul Hastings Letter; Richardson Patel Letter; SVB Financial Letter; cf.
Cornell Clinic Letter (recommending an unspecified higher limit for accredited investors); Milken
Institute Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co Letter (supporting eliminating the investment limit
generally).

132

Milken Institute Letter.

133

ABA BLS Letter; Canaccord Letter; Milken Institute Letter; MoFo Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co
Letter. Several of these commenters believed that, as proposed, the investment limitations would
not apply to non-natural persons and asked the Commission to confirm or clarify this point.

134

Cornell Clinic Letter (creating a separate, higher limit for institutional investors and other types of
non-retail investors included in the “accredited investor” definition); Heritage Letter (eliminating
the investment limit for “any current or former investor, employee or officer of the issuer”); Ladd
Letter 2 (eliminating the investment limit for any non-accredited affiliates, founders, employees,
agents, independent contractors and owners); Milken Institute Letter (eliminating the investment
limit for investors that purchase Tier 2 securities on an exchange); Paul Hastings Letter
(eliminating the investment limit for offerings conducted by registered broker-dealers);
Richardson Patel Letter (eliminating the investment limit for any non-individual investor with at
least $100,000 in assets or $100,000 in revenue in the previous fiscal year).

135

McCarter & English Letter; Richardson Patel Letter.

136

Richardson Patel Letter.

137

Fallbrook Technologies Letter; Heritage Letter; IPA Letter; KVCF Letter; Leading Biosciences
Letter; REISA Letter.

42

commenters stated that any more rigorous verification process would cause the
compliance costs to be too high. One commenter recommended eliminating any
obligation for the issuer to monitor the 10% investment limit and allowing the issuer to
rely on a representation by the investor that he or she will notify the issuer upon
exceeding the 10% limit. 138 Another commenter recommended permitting an issuer to
rely on representations from its underwriters or broker-dealers as to the 10% investment
limit, rather than having to seek this directly from investors. 139 This commenter believed
that the issuers in most Tier 2 offerings would have little direct contact with the investors
and that the intermediaries would be better positioned to assess compliance (possibly
already having information about the investor’s finances).
Several commenters disagreed with allowing investors to represent compliance
with the investment limitation and recommended a standard that would require an issuer
to do more to ensure compliance. 140 Two commenters recommended adopting a standard
requiring issuers to take reasonable steps to verify that the purchasers are in compliance
with the 10% investment limit.141 Two commenters recommended requiring an issuer to
have a “reasonable belief” or “reasonable basis” that it can rely on an investor’s
representation of compliance with the 10% investment limit.142 One such commenter
also suggested allowing accredited investors to exceed the 10% investment limit, but

138

REISA Letter.

139

KVCF Letter.

140

Letter from Paul Sigelman, President & CEO, Accredited Assurance, March 24, 2014
(“Accredited Assurance Letter”); CFA Letter; CFA Institute Letter; Cornell Clinic Letter; MCS
Letter; WDFI Letter.

141

Accredited Assurance Letter; WDFI Letter.

142

CFA Institute Letter; MCS Letter.

43

requiring that the issuer take reasonable steps to verify accredited investor status. 143 One
commenter recommended requiring a “duty of inquiry” so that the issuer would have to
follow-up on any “red flags.” 144 Additionally, this commenter recommended that the
Commission create an independent and secure means of verifying investor income or to
require a mandatory questionnaire for individual investors to complete before buying a
security issued under Regulation A.
c.

Final Rules

We are adopting an investment limitation for Tier 2 offerings in the final rules,
with minor modifications from the proposed rules. We believe that the investment
limitation serves as an important investor protection and may help to mitigate the risk that
with the increased annual offering limitation provided in Section 3(b)(2) comes a risk of
commensurately greater investor losses. We do not believe that the limitation is needed
for accredited investors because investors that qualify as accredited under our rules
satisfy certain criteria that suggest they are capable of protecting themselves in
transactions that are exempt from registration under the Securities Act. 145 We also do not
believe that the limitation is necessary for investments in securities that will be listed on a
national securities exchange upon qualification because of the issuer listing requirements
and the potential liquidity that exchanges provide to investors that seek to reduce their
holdings. These both are important investor protections that help to mitigate concerns

143

MCS Letter.

144

Cornell Clinic Letter.

145

See Rule 501(a) of Regulation D, 17 CFR 230.501(a); see also SEC v. Ralston Purina Co., 346
U.S. 119 (1953).

44

about the magnitude of loss that could potentially result from an investor purchasing a
large amount of securities in a single offering.
Under the final rules, the investment limitations for purchasers in Tier 2 offerings
will not apply to purchasers who qualify as accredited investors under Rule 501 of
Regulation D. 146 Further, investment limitations in a Tier 2 offering will not apply to the
sale of securities that will be listed on a national securities exchange upon qualification
since such issuers will be required to meet the listing standards of a national securities
exchange 147 and become subject to ongoing Exchange Act reporting, resulting in
additional investor protections.
In response to questions raised by commenters, we are clarifying that nonaccredited, non-natural persons are subject to the investment limitation and should
calculate the limitation based on no more than 10% of the greater of the purchaser’s
revenue or net assets (as of the purchaser’s most recent fiscal year end). 148
Non-accredited, natural persons must calculate the investment limitations on the basis of

146

See Rule 252(c)(2). Under Rule 501, natural persons are accredited investors if: (i) their income
exceeds $200,000 in each of the two most recent years (or $300,000 in joint income with a
person’s spouse), and they reasonably expect to reach the same income level in the current year;
(ii) they serve as executives or directors of the issuer; or (iii) their net worth exceeds $1,000,000
(individual or jointly with a spouse), excluding the value of their primary residence. Certain
enumerated entities that satisfy an asset-based test also qualify as accredited investors, while
others, including regulated entities such as banks and registered investment companies, are not
subject to the asset test. See 17 CFR 230.501. The accredited investor definition is intended to
encompass those individuals and entities “whose financial sophistication and ability to sustain the
risk of loss of investment or ability to fend for themselves render the protections of the Securities
Act’s registration process unnecessary.” See, e.g., Rel. No. 33-6683 (Jan. 16, 1987) [52 FR 3015]
(Regulation D Revisions; Exemption for Certain Employee Benefit Plans).

147

National securities exchanges impose certain requirements on issuers, in addition to those
generally required by the Commission, in order for an issuer’s securities to be approved for listing.
See discussion of listing requirements for, and additional investor protections associated with,
national securities exchanges in Section II.E.3.c. below; see also fns. 721, 722 below.

148

Rule 251(d)(2)(i)(C)(1).

45

10% of the greater of the purchaser’s annual income or net worth (determined as
provided in Rule 501 of Regulation D). 149
If the investor is purchasing securities that are convertible into, or exercisable or
exchangeable for, other securities, if such securities are exercisable within a year or
otherwise are being qualified, the investment limitation will include the aggregate
conversion, exercise, or exchange price of such securities, in addition to the purchase
price. 150 We believe this is an appropriate calculation because it is consistent with the
offering limit calculation for the respective tiers 151 and because it applies investment
limitations to reasonably foreseeable investment decisions (i.e., those involving securities
exercisable within a year or otherwise qualified by the issuer) while reducing the risk that
issuers may seek to sell large amounts of securities that are convertible, exercisable or
exchangeable into other securities in the near term at a low cost in an effort to avoid the
10% limitation.
As proposed, we are adopting final rules that require issuers to notify investors of
the investment limitations. 152 Issuers may rely on a representation of compliance with
the investment limitation from the investor, unless the issuer knew at the time of sale that
any such representation was untrue. 153 As we noted in the Proposing Release, we are
cognizant of the privacy issues and practical difficulties associated with verifying
149

Rule 251(d)(2)(i)(C)(2). See Securities Act Rule 501(a)(5) [17 CFR 230.501(a)(5)] (net worth).
Consistent with this rule, the calculation of a natural person’s net worth for purposes of the
investment limit excludes the value of the primary residence of such person.

150

See note to Rule 251(d)(2)(i).

151

See discussion in Section II.B.3.c. above.

152

See paragraph (a)(5) to Part II of Form 1-A.

153

Rule 251(d)(2)(i)(D). Similarly, issuers may also rely on representations of investor compliance
with the investment limitations from participating broker-dealers, unless the issuer knew at the
time of sale that any such representation was untrue.

46

individual income and net worth and, therefore, are not requiring investors to disclose
personal information to issuers in order to verify compliance. 154
Some commenters suggested requiring an issuer to have a reasonable belief that it
can rely on an investor’s representation of compliance with the investment limitations or
to take reasonable steps to verify compliance, while other commenters suggested we
establish consequences for issuers (and intermediaries, when applicable) if an investor
failed to comply with the limitations.155 At the same time, many commenters supported
the proposed approach, noting the low compliance costs and the certainty it would
provide issuers and their intermediaries. 156 We believe that the rules, as adopted, will
limit potential losses for non-accredited investors with respect to individual offerings,
while providing certainty to, and lower compliance costs for, issuers and intermediaries.
We do not believe that additional requirements for issuers and their
intermediaries, such as requiring issuers to take reasonable steps to verify an investors’
compliance with the investment limitations, are necessary to protect investors in light of
the total package of investor protections included in the final rules for Tier 2 offerings. 157
We believe that additional requirements, like the ones suggested by some commenters,
may have an unintended consequence of dissuading issuers from selling to nonaccredited investors in Tier 2 offerings by increasing compliance uncertainties and

154

See Proposing Release, at Section II.B.4.

155

See fn. 140-144 above.

156

See fn. 137 above.

157

For example, the final rules include limitations on issuer eligibility, bad actor disqualification
provisions, a requirement that offering statements must be qualified by the Commission, narrative
and financial disclosure requirements, which for Tier 2 offerings must include audited financial
statements on an initial and annual basis, as well as annual, semiannual, and current event
reporting.

47

obligations. We are therefore not adopting any additional compliance requirements with
respect to investment limitations in the final rules.
While many commenters urged the Commission to eliminate or provide less
restrictive investment limitations in the final rules, 158 we believe that these requirements,
as proposed and adopted, usefully augment other requirements for, and investor
protections applicable to, Tier 2 offerings. As we noted in the Proposing Release,
Title IV of the JOBS Act mandates certain investor protections 159 and suggests that the
Commission consider others as part of its Section 3(b)(2) rulemaking. 160 Congress
recognized in Section 3(b)(2) that investor protections beyond those expressly provided
in Title IV of the JOBS Act may be necessary in the revised regulation. To that end,
Section 3(b)(2)(G) indicates that the Commission may include in the expanded
exemption “such other terms, conditions, or requirements . . . necessary in the public
interest and for the protection of investors . . . .” Limiting the amount of securities that a
non-accredited investor can purchase in a particular Tier 2 offering (other than a Tier 2
offering of securities listed on a national securities exchange) should help to mitigate
concerns that such investors may not be able to absorb the potential loss of the
investment and is consistent with the authority granted to the Commission in

158

See fn. 122 above.

159

See Section 3(b)(2)(D) (expressly providing for Section 12(a)(2) liability for any person offering
or selling Section 3(b)(2) securities); Section 3(b)(2)(F) (requiring issuers to file audited financial
statements with the Commission annually).

160

See Section 3(b)(2)(G) (inviting the Commission to consider, among other things, requiring
audited financial statements in the offering statement and implementing bad actor disqualification
provisions); Section 3(b)(4) (inviting the Commission to consider implementing ongoing reporting
requirements).

48

Section 3(b)(2). 161 We further believe that setting the investment limitation at 10% of the
greater of such investor’s net worth/net assets and annual income/revenue, as opposed to
some other percentage (e.g., 5% or 20%), is generally consistent with similar maximum
investment limitations placed on investors in Title III of the JOBS Act and will help to set
a loss limitation standard in such offerings. 162
Despite the suggestions of some commenters, 163 we do not believe that further
distinctions as to the applicability of investment limitations are appropriate among
investors that do not qualify as accredited investors. On the contrary, we believe that the
regulatory distinctions among accredited and non-accredited investors and the familiarity
many market participants have with such terms will help to ease compliance with, and
determinations about the applicability of, the investment limitations and will avoid
unnecessary complexity associated with other, additional distinctions.
5.

Integration
a.

Proposed Rules

We proposed amending Rule 251(c) of Regulation A, which governs the
integration of Regulation A offerings with other offerings, to provide that offerings under
Regulation A would not to be integrated with any of the following: 164
•

prior offers or sales of securities; or

161

As proposed and adopted, an underwriter in a firm commitment underwritten Regulation A
offering, or participating broker-dealer that is involved in stabilization activities with respect to an
offering of Regulation A securities will not be considered an investor that is subject to the
investment limitations.

162

Section 301 of the JOBS Act; see also Securities Act Section 4(a)(6), 15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6).

163

See fn. 134 above.

164

The integration doctrine seeks to prevent an issuer from improperly avoiding registration by
artificially dividing a single offering into multiple offerings such that Securities Act exemptions
would apply to multiple offerings that would not be available for the combined offering.

49

•

certain specified subsequent offers and sales of securities. 165

The proposed safe harbor was substantially the same as the existing integration safe
harbor in Rule 251(c), with the addition of a separate provision for securities-based
crowdfunding transactions conducted pursuant to Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act. 166
We further proposed to amend Rule 254(d) to provide that, where an issuer
decides to register an offering after soliciting interest in a contemplated, but abandoned,
Regulation A offering, any offers made pursuant to Regulation A would not be subject to
integration with the registered offering, unless the issuer engaged in solicitations of
interest in reliance on Regulation A to persons other than qualified institutional buyers
(QIBs) 167 and institutional accredited investors permitted by Section 5(d) 168 of the
Securities Act. 169 As proposed, an issuer (and any underwriter, broker, dealer, or agent
that is acting on behalf of the issuer in connection with the proposed offering) soliciting
interest in a Regulation A offering to persons other than QIBs and institutional accredited
investors would need to wait at least 30 calendar days between the last such solicitation
of interest in the Regulation A offering and the filing of the registration statement with

165

See proposed Rule 251(c), which included in the safe harbor subsequent offers or sales that are
registered under the Securities Act, or made pursuant to Securities Act Rule 701, an employee
benefit plan, Regulation S, proposed Regulation Crowdfunding (see Rel. No. 33-9470), or more
than six months after completion of the Regulation A offering.

166

Section 4(a)(6) was added to the Securities Act by Section 302 of the JOBS Act.

167

QIBs are large institutions meeting specific requirements outlined in Rule 144A, or entities the
seller (or a person acting on its behalf) reasonably believes to be QIBs. See Rule 144A, 17 CFR
230.144A.

168

15 U.S.C. 77e(d); see also fn. 537 below.

169

Proposed Rule 255(e).

50

the Commission. 170 The Proposing Release also provided guidance on the applicability
of the integration doctrine for offerings conducted outside the scope of the safe harbor. 171
b.

Comments on the Proposed Rules

One commenter specifically supported the proposed changes to the integration
provisions of Regulation A. 172 Another commenter objected to the proposed changes to
the integration provisions and related guidance. 173 This commenter cautioned that it
would be very difficult to police compliance with these provisions and suggested that
they would be used to evade regulatory requirements.
c.

Final Rules

We are adopting, as proposed, an integration safe harbor, with one clarifying
change. Under the final rules, offerings pursuant to Regulation A will not be integrated
with:
•

prior offers or sales of securities; or

•

subsequent offers and sales of securities that are:
•

registered under the Securities Act, except as provided in Rule 255(c);

•

made pursuant to Rule 701 under the Securities Act;

•

made pursuant to an employee benefit plan;

•

made pursuant to Regulation S;

•

made pursuant to Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act; or

•

made more than six months after completion of the Regulation A

170

Id.

171

See Proposing Release, Section II.B.5.

172

ABA BLS Letter.

173

CFA Letter.

51

offering. 174
We believe that the integration safe harbor has historically provided and, as
amended, will continue to provide, issuers, particularly smaller issuers whose capital
needs often change, with valuable certainty as to the contours of a given offering and
their eligibility for an exemption from Securities Act registration. The addition of
subsequent offers or sales made pursuant to Section 4(a)(6), which is the only substantive
change to the existing safe harbor being adopted today, should not significantly alter the
application of the doctrine in practice. Given the unique capital formation method
available to issuers and investors through Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act and the
small dollar amounts involved, we believe that the addition to the safe harbor list of
subsequent crowdfunding offers and sales conducted pursuant to such section is
appropriate and will not unduly increase risks to investors. 175 As with any exemption
from registration, the burden of proof of compliance with a claimed exemption rests with
the party claiming it. 176 In our view, the benefits of providing issuers with certainty as to
the scope of the integration doctrine, particularly for Regulation A, outweighs the
concern expressed by one commenter that compliance with the doctrine may be difficult
to enforce. 177 In light of the broad permissible target audience of Regulation A
solicitations, the potential for expanded use of solicitation materials in Regulation A
discussed more fully in Section II.D. below, and the addition of similar provisions for
registered offerings under Section 5(d), we believe the integration provisions in the final
174

Rule 251(c).

175

See 15 U.S.C.77d(a)(6); see also Rel. No. 33-9470.

176

See Ralston Purina Co., 346 U.S. 119.

177

CFA Letter.

52

rule are necessary to ensure that amended Regulation A functions as a viable capital
raising option for issuers.
We are also clarifying in the final rules the scope of the proposed safe harbor
from integration in instances where an issuer abandons a contemplated Regulation A
offering before qualification, but after soliciting interest in such offering to persons other
than QIBs and institutional accredited investors. The proposed language could be read to
imply that issuers must wait at least 30 calendar days to avoid integration with a
subsequent registered offering or else be subject to integration. The final rules clarify
that waiting less than 30 calendar days before a subsequent registered offering would not
necessarily result in integration and would instead depend on the particular facts and
circumstances. 178
We are also reaffirming the integration guidance provided in the Proposing
Release, which is consistent with guidance provided by the Commission in a 2007 rule
proposal on Regulation D. 179 As noted in the Proposing Release, we believe that an
offering made in reliance on Regulation A should not be integrated with another exempt
offering made by the issuer, provided that each offering complies with the requirements
of the exemption that is being relied upon for the particular offering. For example, an
issuer conducting a concurrent exempt offering for which general solicitation is not

178

See Note to Rule 251(c) and Rule 255(e); see also Section II.D. below for a discussion on
solicitation materials.

179

See Revision of Limited Offering Exemptions in Regulation D, Release No. 33-8828 (Aug. 3,
2007) (expressing the view that the determination as to whether the filing of the registration
statement should be considered to be a general solicitation or general advertising that would affect
the availability of an exemption under Securities Act Section 4(a)(2) for such a concurrent
unregistered offering should be based on a consideration of whether the investors in the private
placement were solicited by the registration statement or through some other means that would
otherwise not foreclose the availability of the Section 4(a)(2) exemption).

53

permitted will need to be satisfied that purchasers in that offering were not solicited by
means of the offering made in reliance on Regulation A, including without limitation any
“testing the waters” communications. 180 Alternatively, an issuer conducting a concurrent
exempt offering for which general solicitation is permitted, for example, under
Rule 506(c), could not include in any such general solicitation an advertisement of the
terms of a Regulation A offering, unless that advertisement also included the necessary
legends for, and otherwise complied with, Regulation A. 181
6.

Treatment under Section 12(g)
a.

Proposed Rules

Exchange Act Section 12(g) requires, among other things, that an issuer with total
assets exceeding $10,000,000 and a class of equity securities held of record by either
2,000 persons, or 500 persons who are not accredited investors, register such class of
securities with the Commission.182 We did not propose to exempt Regulation A
securities from mandatory registration under Section 12(g), but we solicited comment on
whether Regulation A securities should be granted such an exemption, either
conditionally or otherwise.
b.

Comments on Proposed Rules

Commenters generally expressed support for some form of exemption from the
registration requirements under Section 12(g). Numerous commenters recommended
180

For a concurrent offering under Rule 506(b), an issuer will have to conclude that purchasers in the
Rule 506(b) offering were not solicited by means of a Regulation A general solicitation. For
example, the issuer may have had a preexisting substantive relationship with such purchasers.
Otherwise, the solicitation conducted in connection with the Regulation A offering may preclude
reliance on Rule 506(b). See also Rel. No. 33-8828 (Aug. 3, 2007) [72 FR 45116].

181

See discussion in Section II.D. below.

182

15 U.S.C. 78l(g).

54

exempting Regulation A securities from Section 12(g). 183 Several of these commenters
expressed concern that the Section 12(g) record holder count would decrease the utility of
the Regulation A exemption by incentivizing issuers to sell to accredited investors over
non-accredited investors, likely resulting in issuers electing to rely on a potentially less
costly exemption, such as Rule 506 of Regulation D. 184 These commenters also
expressed concern that Section 12(g) would decrease the utility of the exemption because
secondary trading in otherwise unrestricted Regulation A securities might result in issuers
inadvertently crossing the Section 12(g) registration threshold. 185 Other commenters
questioned the extent to which Regulation A securities would be held in street name
through brokers, which the proposal mentions as a factor that could potentially limit the
impact of not proposing an exemption from Section 12(g). 186 Some commenters
suggested that the reporting regime under Tier 2 would be a sufficient means by which
issuers could provide investors with current information and that therefore Exchange Act

183

B. Riley Letter; CFIRA Letter 1; CFIRA Letter 2; Fallbrook Technologies Letter; Letter from
Jonathan Frutkin, Principal, The Frutkin Law Firm, PLC, March 24, 2014 (“Frutkin Law Letter”);
Guzik Letter 1; Letter from Samuel S Guzik, October 25, 2014 (“Guzik Letter 2”); Heritage
Letter; IPA Letter; Ladd Letter 2; Milken Institute Letter; MoFo Letter; SBIA Letter
(recommending that the trigger be “raised or remedied,” but not explicitly calling for elimination);
US Alliance Corp. Letter; U.S. Chamber of Commerce Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co Letter.

184

CFIRA Letter 1; Fallbrook Technologies Letter; Frutkin Law Letter; Heritage Letter; IPA Letter;
Milken Institute Letter; MoFo Letter; SBIA Letter; U.S. Chamber of Commerce Letter.

185

Id.

186

Guzik Letter 1 (noting the statements of other commenters); Heritage Letter; Ladd Letter 2 (citing
discussions with various brokers); MoFo Letter; SBIA Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co Letter; see
also OTC Markets Letter (highlighting difficulties associated with issuer securities becoming
eligible for Depository Trust Company (DTC) services, which services typically limit the number
of an issuer’s record holders thereby minimizing the impact of the Section 12(g) mandatory
registration provisions; further suggesting that companies issuing Regulation A securities be
required to use registered transfer agents).

55

reporting would be unnecessary. 187 Two commenters believed that the legislative history
of the JOBS Act supported an exemption from Section 12(g). 188
Several commenters recommended changing, delaying, or conditioning the
application of Section 12(g)’s registration requirements, especially the corresponding
Section 13 reporting obligations that come with registration. 189 One of these commenters
recommended delaying the application of Exchange Act reporting requirements for Tier 2
issuers until the issuer’s non-affiliate market capitalization reached $250 million, so long
as the issuer filed reports under Regulation A. 190 This commenter believed that
non-affiliate market capitalization was a superior proxy for market interest than the
thresholds under Section 12(g) and noted that the Commission uses the measure in
establishing primary S-3 eligibility. Another commenter recommended exempting initial
Tier 2 issuers from all or part of Exchange Act reporting obligations until the earliest of
the occurrence of several events. 191 Yet another commenter suggested exempting Tier 2
issuers from Exchange Act reporting until they reach a certain unspecified level of
revenue or market capitalization. 192 Two commenters recommended deeming Tier 2
issuers’ ongoing reports under Regulation A to satisfy the issuer’s Exchange Act

187

B. Riley Letter; Fallbrook Technologies Letter; Milken Institute Letter; MoFo Letter.

188

Ladd Letter 2; WR Hambrecht + Co Letter.

189

Heritage Letter; KVCF Letter; McCarter & English Letter; Milken Institute Letter; MoFo Letter;
Paul Hastings Letter; SBIA Letter.

190

Paul Hastings Letter.

191

McCarter & English Letter (suggesting the earliest of: (1) the last day of any fiscal year of the
issuer during which it had annual gross revenues of $250 million; (2) the last day of any fiscal
year following the fifth anniversary of the date of the first sale of equity securities under
Regulation A; and (3) the date on which the issuer has an aggregate worldwide market value of
voting and non-voting equity held by its non-affiliates of at least $75 million computed as of the
last business day of the issuer’s most recently completed second quarter).

192

Milken Institute Letter.

56

reporting obligations for a phase-in period. 193 One commenter recommended at least
allowing for 2,000 holders of record (whether accredited or not) without being subject to
Exchange Act registration requirements, 194 while two other commenters suggested
eliminating the cap of 500 non-accredited investors. 195 One commenter conditioned its
support for a conditional exemption from Section 12(g) on the Commission requiring
Tier 2 issuers to remain current in their ongoing Regulation A reporting requirements. 196
c.

Final Rules

We are adopting today final rules that exempt securities issued in a Tier 2 offering
from the provisions of Section 12(g) for so long as the issuer remains subject to, and is
current in (as of its fiscal year end), 197 its Regulation A periodic reporting obligations. 198
Additionally, in order for the conditional exemption to apply, issuers are required to
engage the services of a transfer agent registered with the Commission pursuant to
Section 17A of the Exchange Act. The final rules also provide that the exemption from
Section 12(g) is only available to companies that meet requirements similar to those in
the “smaller reporting company” definition under Securities Act and Exchange Act

193

ABA BLS Letter (a 24 month phase-in period that could expire earlier if the company triggered
Exchange Act reporting in some other manner); MoFo Letter.

194

Heritage Letter.

195

KVCF Letter; SBIA Letter.

196

MoFo Letter.

197

The determination as to “current” reporting status is determined at the time of fiscal year end in
reference to the filing of all periodic reports, including special financial reports, required to be
filed during such fiscal year. For these purposes, a newly qualified issuer that at fiscal year end
has not yet been obligated to file a periodic report, including, if applicable, a special financial
report, would be considered “current” for these purposes.

198

Rule 12g5-1(a)(7).

57

rules. 199 As such, the conditional exemption in the final rules is limited to issuers that
have a public float of less than $75 million, determined as of the last business day of its
most recently completed semiannual period, 200 or, in the absence of a public float, annual
revenues of less than $50 million, as of the most recently completed fiscal year. 201 An
issuer that exceeds either of the thresholds, in addition to exceeding the threshold in
Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act, would be granted a two-year transition period before
it would be required to register its class of securities pursuant to Section 12(g), provided
it timely files all ongoing reports due pursuant to Rule 257 during such
period. 202 Section 12(g) registration will only be required if, on the last day of the fiscal
year in which the company exceeded the public float or annual revenue threshold, the
company has total assets of more than $10 million and the class of equity securities is

199

“Smaller reporting company” is defined in Securities Act Rule 405, 17 CFR 230.405, Exchange
Act Rule 12b-2, 17 CFR 240.12b-2, and Item 10(f)(1) of Regulation S-K, 17 CFR 229.10(f)(1).
The provision of the smaller reporting company definition relating to initial registration statements
under the Securities Act is not applicable to exempt offering pursuant to Regulation A. See Item
10(f)(1)(a)(ii) of Regulation S-K, 17 CFR 229.10(f)(a)(ii). The final rules do not therefore
incorporate this concept for purposes of Rule 12g5-1(a)(7). See Rule 12g5-1(a)(7).

200

Consistent with the smaller reporting company definition, an issuer will calculate “public float” by
multiplying the aggregate worldwide number of shares of its common equity securities held by
non-affiliates by the price at which such securities were last sold (or the average bid and asked
prices of such securities) in the principal market for such securities. Rule 12g5-1(a)(7). See also,
e.g., Item 10(f)(1)(i) of Regulation S-K.

201

Rule 12g5-1(a)(7). The Commission adopted the smaller reporting company regime in 2007. See
SEC Rel. No. 33-8876 (Dec. 19, 2007) [73 FR 934]. Some commentators, such as the
Commission’s Advisory Committee on Small and Emerging Companies, have suggested that the
Commission revisit the smaller reporting company regime, including the definitional thresholds.
Recommendations Regarding Disclosure and Other Requirements for Smaller Public Companies,
Securities and Exchange Commission, Advisory Committee on Small and Emerging Companies
(February 1, 2013), at 2-3, available at: http://www.sec.gov/info/smallbus/acsec/acsecrecommendation-032113-smaller-public-co-ltr.pdf. Although the Commission has not yet
responded to this recommendation, in considering any potential changes to the smaller reporting
company regime, we would expect to consider whether corresponding changes to the thresholds
included in Rule 12g5-1(a)(7) should also be made, taking into account how the Regulation A
regime is working.

202

Id.

58

held by more than 2,000 persons or 500 persons who are not accredited investors. 203 In
such circumstances, an issuer that exceeds the thresholds in Section 12(g) and
Rule 12g5-1(a)(7) would be required to begin reporting under the Exchange Act the fiscal
year immediately following the end of the two-year transition period. 204 An issuer
entering Exchange Act reporting will be considered an “emerging growth company” to
the extent the issuer otherwise qualifies for such status. 205
In determining to provide a conditional exemption from the provisions of
Section 12(g), we have considered a number of factors. First, we believe the conditional
exemption we are adopting today is consistent with the intent behind the original
enactment of Section 12(g) to the extent it ensures that relevant information about issuers
will be made routinely available to investors and the marketplace. 206 Second, we believe
the additional requirement that Regulation A issuers use a registered transfer agent will
provide an important investor protection in this context. The use of a transfer agent
registered under the Exchange Act, which, in the absence of a conditional exemption
from the provisions of Section 12(g), would be required of issuers when they register
under the Exchange Act, will provide added comfort that securityholder records and
secondary trades will be handled accurately. Third, we believe that phasing out the

203

15 U.S.C. 78l(g).

204

Id. See Section II.E.4.b(2). below for a discussion on suspension or termination of the duty to file
ongoing reports pursuant to Rule 257.

205

See fn. 726 below and accompanying text.

206

Section 12(g) was originally enacted by Congress as a way to ensure that investors in over-thecounter securities about which there was little or no information, but which had a significant
shareholder base, were provided with ongoing information about their investment. See, generally,
Report of the Special Study of Securities Markets of the Securities and Exchange Commission,
House Document No. 95, House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, 88th Cong., 1st
Sess. (1963), at 60-62

59

exemption once companies grow and expand their shareholder base is consistent with the
intent behind Title IV of the JOBS Act, which was enacted to facilitate smaller company
capital formation. 207 Finally, we are concerned that, as commenters suggested, the lack
of an exemption from mandatory registration under the Exchange Act may undermine the
utility of amended Regulation A either by discouraging use of the exemption altogether
or by dissuading issuers from making sales to non-accredited investors in Regulation A
offerings in an effort to avoid the application of Section 12(g).
While we believe, as we noted in the Proposing Release, that the Section 12(g)
record holder threshold continues to provide an important baseline above which issuers
should generally be subject to the disclosure obligations of the Exchange Act, we are
persuaded that this need not be the case where an issuer is a smaller company that is
subject to, and current in, its periodic reporting obligations under Tier 2 of Regulation A
and engages the services of a transfer agent that is registered with the Commission under
the Exchange Act. Regulation A, as amended in the final rules, requires issuers that
conduct Tier 2 offerings to provide periodic disclosure to their investors and updates for
certain important corporate events. 208 While such reports provide less information than is
required of an Exchange Act reporting company, we believe a conditional exemption
from registration under Section 12(g) is warranted for smaller Tier 2 issuers since such
companies are required to provide investors with ongoing information about themselves
and the securities offered, and the ongoing reporting regime we are adopting today is
207

See, e.g., H.R. Rep. No. 112-206 (2011), at 4 (“Small companies are critical to economic growth
in the United States. Amending Regulation A to make it viable for small companies to access
capital will permit greater investment in these companies, resulting in economic growth and
jobs.”).

208

See Rule 257.

60

more appropriately tailored for such companies. Additionally, in order to address
situations where an issuer that conducts a Tier 2 offering could remain subject to its
ongoing reporting requirements indefinitely and thereby avoid having to comply with
Exchange Act reporting requirements regardless of the size of its shareholder base, we
note that the exemption from Section 12(g) is conditional and that an issuer that does not
meet its conditions, including the limitation on public float and annual revenues, will be
required to register under the Exchange Act.
C.

Offering Statement
Section 3(b)(2)(G)(i) gives the Commission discretion to require an offering

statement in such form and with such content as it determines necessary in the public
interest and for the protection of investors. 209 The provision permits electronic filing of
offering statements, and provides a non-exhaustive list of potential content that may be
required in the offering statement, including audited financial statements, a description of
the issuer’s business operations, financial condition, corporate governance principles, use
of investor funds, and other appropriate matters.
1.

Electronic Filing; Delivery Requirements
a.

Proposed Rules

Consistent with the language of Section 3(b)(2)(G)(i), we proposed to require
Regulation A offering statements to be filed with the Commission electronically on
EDGAR. 210 We further proposed to amend Form 1-A, but to continue to have the form
consist of three parts:

209

15 U.S.C. 77c(b)(2)(G)(i).

210

See proposed Rule 252(e).

61

•

Part I: an eXtensible Markup Language (XML) based fillable form;

•

Part II: a text file attachment containing the body of the disclosure document
and financial statements; and

•

Part III: text file attachments, containing the signatures, exhibits index, and
the exhibits to the offering statement. 211

We further proposed to require all other documents required to be submitted or filed with
the Commission in conjunction with a Regulation A offering, such as ongoing reports, to
be submitted or filed electronically on EDGAR. 212
Additionally, we proposed an access equals delivery model for Regulation A final
offering circulars. 213 Under the proposed rules, issuers would be required to include a
notice in any preliminary offering circular used that would inform potential investors that
the issuer may satisfy its delivery obligations for the final offering circular
electronically. 214 As with registered offerings, we also proposed aftermarket delivery
obligations for dealers that would be satisfied if the final offering circular is filed and
available on EDGAR and the appropriate notice was given by the dealer. 215
Consistent with prior Commission releases on the use of electronic media for
delivery purposes, we proposed that “electronic-only” offerings of Regulation A securities

211

See Proposing Release, at Section II.C.1.

212

Id.

213

Id.

214

See proposed Rule 254(a).

215

As proposed, a dealer would generally be required to deliver a copy of the current offering circular
to purchasers for all sales that occur within 90 calendar days after qualification, although this
requirement would be satisfied when the final offering circular is filed and available on EDGAR
and the dealer has otherwise complied with the obligation to deliver a notice of sales to the
purchaser not later than two business days after completion of such sale. See proposed Rules
251(d)(2)(ii)-(iii).

62

would not be prohibited, but an issuer and its participating intermediaries would have to
obtain the consent of investors to the electronic delivery of:
•

the preliminary offering circular and other information, but not the final
offering circular, in instances where, upon qualification, the issuer plans to
sell Regulation A securities based on offers made using a preliminary offering
circular; and

•

all documents and information, including the final offering circular, when the
issuer sells Regulation A securities based on offers conducted during the
post-qualification period using a final offering circular. 216

We further proposed to maintain the existing requirements in Regulation A, which
require dealers to deliver a copy of the current offering circular to purchasers for sales
that take place within 90 calendar days after qualification. 217 We proposed to update and
amend Rule 251(d)(2)(i) 218 to require issuers and participating broker-dealers to deliver
only a preliminary offering circular to prospective purchasers 219 at least 48 hours in
advance of sale when a preliminary offering circular is used during the prequalification
period to offer such securities to potential investors. We also proposed to continue to
require a final offering circular to accompany or precede any written communication that
constitutes an offer in the post-qualification period. 220

216

See Proposing Release, at Section II.C.1.

217

See proposed Rule 251(d)(2)(iii).

218

17 CFR 230.251(d)(2)(i) (2014).

219

See proposed Rule 251(d)(2)(i).

220

See proposed Rule 251(d)(1)(iii).

63

In addition to the revised delivery requirements discussed above, we proposed to
add a provision analogous to Rule 173, 221 which would require issuers, underwriters, and
dealers, not later than two business days after completion of a sale, to provide purchasers
with a copy of the final offering circular or a notice stating that the sale occurred pursuant
to a qualified offering statement. 222 As proposed, the notice must include the website
address 223 where the final offering circular, or the offering statement of which such final
offering circular is part, may be obtained on EDGAR and contact information sufficient
to notify a purchaser how it may request and receive a final offering circular from the
issuer. 224
We further proposed to allow an issuer to withdraw an offering statement, with
the Commission’s consent, if none of the securities that are the subject of such offering
statement has been sold and such offering statement is not the subject of a Commission
order temporarily suspending a Regulation A exemption. Under the proposed rules, the
Commission also would be able to declare an offering statement abandoned if the
offering statement has been on file with the Commission for nine months without
amendment and has not become qualified. These withdrawal and abandonment
procedures are similar to the ones that apply to registration statements under the
Securities Act. 225

221

17 CFR 230.173.

222

See proposed Rule 251(d)(2)(ii).

223

In the case of an electronic-only offering, the notice must include an active hyperlink to the final
offering circular or to the offering statement of which such final offering circular is part.

224

See proposed Rule 251(d)(2)(ii).

225

See Securities Act Rule 477, 17 CFR 230.477, and Rule 479, 17 CFR 230.479.

64

b.

Comments on the Proposed Rules

No commenters opposed the proposed requirement that issuers be required to file
offering statements and related material electronically with the Commission on EDGAR,
while two commenters expressly supported such a requirement. 226 One commenter
recommended only requiring preliminary or final offering circular delivery 48 hours in
advance of sale for initial public offerings and not for offerings by issuers that are already
subject to Tier 2 ongoing reporting requirements. 227 This commenter also recommended
eliminating dealer offering circular delivery requirements for Tier 2 issuers that are
subject to ongoing reporting.
A few commenters opposed an access equals delivery model of final offering
circular delivery. 228 These commenters raised concerns about the perceived challenge of
finding these materials on EDGAR and not requiring delivery 48 hours in advance of sale
in all circumstances.
One commenter recommended, in addition to requiring electronic filing on
EDGAR, requiring issuers to maintain a corporate web site where the public may access
copies of all non-confidential filings in a timely manner so that investors not familiar
with EDGAR may access the most complete information provided to the Commission.229
In addition to suggested changes to the filing process itself, several commenters

226

See MCS Letter; OTC Markets Letter.

227

Paul Hastings Letter.

228

Massachusetts Letter 2; NASAA Letter 2; WDFI Letter.

229

Ladd Letter 2.

65

encouraged the Commission to find ways to reduce the staff’s review time for offering
statements. 230
c.

Final Rules
(1)

Filing Requirements

We are adopting provisions for electronic filing and delivery requirements in the
final rules for Regulation A substantially as proposed. 231 We agree with commenters
that support requiring electronic filing of offering and related materials and believe that
this requirement will ultimately benefit issuers and investors by streamlining the offering
process. As adopted, issuers must file their Regulation A offering statements with the
Commission electronically on EDGAR. 232 Further, as proposed, we are amending Form
1-A to consist of the following three parts:
•

Part I: an eXtensible Markup Language (XML) based fillable form, which
captures key information about the issuer and its offering using an easy to
complete online form, similar to Form D, with drop-down menus, indicator
boxes or buttons, and text boxes, and assists issuers in determining their
ability to rely on the exemption. The XML-based fillable form will provide a
convenient means of assembling and transmitting information to EDGAR,

230

Frutkin Law Letter; Heritage Letter (suggesting that the review time needs to be reduced by twothirds); Letter from Gregory S. Fryer, Esq., Partner, Verrill Dana LLP, February 28, 2014 (“Verrill
Dana Letter 1”) (recommending providing guidance to issuers, staff training, and more discretion
to the staff to make materiality determinations and to work informally with issuers); Letter from
Ted J. Coombs, Chief Technology Officer, Workers On Call, March 24, 2014 (“WOC Letter”).

231

In conjunction with the adoption of final rules for electronic filing and delivery, we are making
clarifying revisions to the proposed rules that renumber some of the proposed provisions in the
final rules. See, e.g., Rule 251(e), (f) (originally proposed Rules 252(c), (e), respectively).

232

See Rule 101(a)(vii), (xvii) of Regulation S-T, 17 CFR 232.101(a)(xvii); see also Rule 251(f). As
proposed, and in conjunction with this change, Item 101(c)(6) of Regulation S-T (17 CFR
232.101(c)(6)) is revised so that it no longer prohibits electronic submission of filings related to
Regulation A offerings.

66

without requiring the issuer to purchase or maintain additional software or
technology; 233
•

Part II: a text file attachment containing the body of the disclosure document
and financial statements, formatted in HyperText Markup Language (HTML)
or American Standard Code for Information Interchange (ASCII) to be
compatible with the EDGAR filing system; 234 and

•

Part III: text file attachments, containing the signatures, exhibits index, and
the exhibits to the offering statement, formatted in HTML or ASCII to be
compatible with the EDGAR filing system. 235

As proposed and adopted, all other documents required to be submitted or filed with the
Commission in conjunction with a Regulation A offering, such as ongoing reports, must
generally be submitted or filed electronically on EDGAR. 236 As materials will be
available on EDGAR, we do not see a need to separately require issuers to maintain a
corporate website where the public may access all non-confidential filings. Issuers may,
however, elect to provide the filings on their website or to their EDGAR filing page.
Consistent with current Regulation A, there are no filing fees associated with the
Regulation A filing and qualification process.
We believe the approach to electronic filing adopted today will be both practical
and useful for issuers of Regulation A securities, investors in such securities, and other
233

Part I (Notification) of Form 1-A. As discussed more fully in Section II.C.3.a. below, the cover
page and Part I of current Form 1-A would be converted into, and form the basis of, the
XML-based fillable form.

234

Part II (Offering Circular) of Form 1-A. See discussion in Section II.C.3.b. below.

235

Part III (Exhibits) of Form 1-A. See discussion in Section II.C.3.c. below.

236

For a discussion on the ongoing reporting requirements, see Section II.E. below.

67

market participants. Issuers will be able to maintain better control over their filing
process, reduce the printing costs associated with filings, obtain immediate confirmation
of acceptance of an offering statement, and ultimately save time in the qualification
process. Investors will gain real-time access to the information contained in
Regulation A filings. 237 We anticipate that the efficiency of the Regulation A market
should improve with the increased accessibility of information about Regulation A
issuers and offerings. Additionally, as with registered offerings, electronic filing on
EDGAR will allow for more efficient storing, processing, and disseminating of
Regulation A filings than paper filings, which should improve the efficiency of the staff
review and qualification processes.
Electronic filing also will facilitate the capture of important financial and other
information about Regulation A issuers and offerings that will enable the Commission
and market participants to analyze any market that develops in Regulation A securities,
including, for example, information about issuer size, issuer location, key financial
metrics, summary information about securities offered and offering amounts, the
jurisdictions in which offerings take place, and expenses associated with Regulation A
offerings. 238
We appreciate that requiring EDGAR filing will impose some new costs on
issuers, as addressed more fully in the Economic Analysis section of the release. 239 We
do not, however, believe that the incremental cost associated with the EDGAR filing
237

Investors would not, however, have immediate access to non-public submissions of draft offering
statements. See discussion in Section II.C.2. below.

238

The specific disclosure requirements included in the XML-based fillable form are discussed more
fully in Section II.C.3.a. below.

239

See Section III. below.

68

requirements justifies maintaining a paper-only filing requirement. On the contrary, we
believe that the potential additional cost to issuers associated with the EDGAR filing
requirement should be minimal and electronic filing on EDGAR would eliminate any
processing delays and costs otherwise associated with the current paper filing system,
such as printing or mailing costs.
(2)

Delivery Requirements

We are adopting, as proposed, an access equals delivery model for Regulation A
final offering circulars when sales are made on the basis of offers conducted during the
prequalification period and the final offering circular is filed and available on EDGAR.
The expanded use of the Internet and continuing technological developments suggest that
we should update the final offering circular delivery method for Regulation A in a
manner that is consistent with similar updates to delivery requirements for registered
offerings. 240 Contrary to the views of some commenters, 241 we do not believe that access
to EDGAR generally has proven to be a challenge for investors in registered offerings
since the adoption of the Securities Offering Reform Release in 2005. We also do not
believe that it will be a challenge for investors under Regulation A or raise investor
protection concerns, particularly in light of our final delivery requirements (including,
where applicable, the inclusion of hyperlinks to offering materials on EDGAR that must
be provided to investors by issuers and intermediaries). 242 Therefore, where sales of
Regulation A securities occur after qualification on the basis of offers made using a
preliminary offering circular, issuers and intermediaries can presume that investors have
240

See Securities Offering Reform, Rel. No. 33-8591.

241

See fn. 228 above.

242

See Rule 251(d)(2), Rule 254(a), and Rule 255(b) and (d).

69

access to the Internet and may satisfy their delivery requirements for the final offering
circular by filing it on EDGAR. 243 Issuers are, however, required to include a notice in
any preliminary offering circular that will inform potential investors that the issuer may
satisfy its delivery obligations for the final offering circular electronically. 244
Further, as proposed, “electronic-only” offerings of Regulation A securities will
be permitted under the final rules, provided that issuers and intermediaries comply with
relevant Commission guidance. 245 Specifically, in such offerings, an issuer and its
participating intermediaries must obtain the consent of investors to, or otherwise be able
to evidence the receipt of, the electronic delivery of:
•

the preliminary offering circular and information other than the final offering
circular, in instances where the issuer sells Regulation A securities based on
offers made using a preliminary offering circular; and

•

all documents and information, including the final offering circular, when the
issuer sells Regulation A securities based on offers made during the
post-qualification period using a final offering circular.

As we noted in the Proposing Release, in light of the proposed requirements for
electronic delivery and in order to be consistent with requirements for registered
offerings, we believe it appropriate to permit dealers, during the aftermarket delivery

243

Cf. Rel. No. 33-8591, at 244.

244

See Rule 254(a).

245

An electronic-only offering is an offering in which investors are permitted to participate only if
they agree to accept the electronic delivery of all documents and other information in connection
with the offering. See Rel. No. 34-37182 (May 9, 1996) [61 FR 24644] (Use of Electronic Media
by Broker-Dealers, Transfer Agents and Investment Advisers for Delivery of Information), Rel.
No. 34-42728 (Apr. 28, 2000) [65 FR 25843] (Use of Electronic Media), and Rel. No. 33-7233
(Oct. 6, 1995) [60 FR 53458] (Use of Electronic Media for Delivery Purposes).

70

period, to be deemed to satisfy their final offering circular delivery requirements if such
document is filed and available on EDGAR. 246 We are amending Rule 251(d)(2)(ii) of
existing Regulation A to make clear that dealers, like issuers and intermediaries, can also
rely on the provisions for access equals delivery. 247 Additionally, the amendment
clarifies that a dealer can rely on access equals delivery for a final offering circular
provided it complies with the requirements of Rule 251(d)(2)(ii). This clarifying
amendment is necessary to avoid any confusion that the final rules could be read to
impose a double delivery requirement on dealers during the aftermarket delivery period.
Separately, we are modifying the terms of Rule 251(d)(2)(ii) to make it more
consistent with the dealer delivery requirements for registered offerings under Securities
Act Rule 174. 248 As proposed, the rules would have required dealers in all circumstances
to deliver a copy of the current offering circular to purchasers for sales that take place
within 90 calendar days after qualification. 249 Consistent with the suggestion of one
commenter, 250 we are revising the proposed rules to more closely align the Regulation A
delivery requirements with those required in Securities Act Rules 174(b) and (d). 251 We,
therefore, are adopting the proposed 90 calendar day dealer delivery requirement, but
eliminating the dealer delivery requirement when the issuer is subject immediately prior
246

See Proposing Release, at Section II.C.1.

247

See Rule 251(d)(2)(ii). Notwithstanding the final delivery requirements, broker-dealers remain
subject to the anti-fraud provisions of Section 15 of the Exchange Act.

248

While we have made clarifying revisions to proposed Rule 251(d)(2)(iii) and renumbered it as
Rule 251(d)(2)(ii), the final rule is consistent with Rule 174, as there is no need for an analog to
Rule 174(g), which covers the dealer delivery obligations in registered offerings by blank check
companies under Rule 174(g). Blank check companies are ineligible issuers under Regulation A.
See Rule 251(b).

249

See proposed Rule 251(d)(2)(iii).

250

Paul Hastings Letter.

251

See 17 CFR 230.174(b), (d).

71

to filing the offering statement to Tier 2 ongoing reporting 252 and reducing the length of
the delivery requirement to 25 calendar days after the later of the qualification date of the
offering statement or the first bona fide offering of securities if the securities will be
listed on a national securities exchange. 253 As adopted, the final rules reduce dealer
aftermarket delivery requirements, which should aid dealers in compliance with the final
rules.
The final rules also update and amend Rule 251(d)(2)(i) to align with changes in
the prospectus delivery requirements for registered offerings that have occurred since
these requirements were last updated in Regulation A. 254 We believe the delivery of the
preliminary offering circular to potential investors before they make an investment
decision on the basis of information provided during the prequalification period remains
an important investor protection that the final rules should preserve, particularly in light
of the proposed expanded use of “testing the waters” solicitation materials to include the
period of time after non-public submission or filing of the offering statement, as
discussed further in Section II.D. below. 255 We also recognize that updating and
amending Regulation A’s offering circular delivery requirements will likely benefit
market participants by minimizing discrepancies between the requirements of brokerdealers in Regulation A and registered offerings.

252

Rule 251(d)(2)(ii)(D); see also Securities Act Rule 174(b).

253

Rule 251(d)(2)(ii)(C); see also Securities Act Rule 174(d).

254

See Proposing Release, at Section II.C.1.

255

See Securities Offering Reform, Rel. No. 33-8591, at 245 (noting that access equals delivery is not
appropriate for preliminary prospectus delivery obligations in IPOs because it is important for
potential investors to be sent the preliminary prospectus).

72

We therefore are amending, as proposed, Rule 251(d)(2)(i) to require issuers and
participating broker-dealers to deliver only a preliminary offering circular to prospective
purchasers 256 at least 48 hours in advance of sale only when a preliminary offering
circular is used during the prequalification period to offer such securities to potential
investors. 257 To make the final rules more consistent with the requirements of Exchange
Act Rule 15c2-8(b) for issuers who already provide continuous, ongoing information to
investors and the market, the final rules do not require an issuer or its intermediaries to
deliver a preliminary offering circular at least 48 hours in advance of sale where the
issuer is already subject to a Tier 2 reporting obligation. In such instances, however, the
issuer and its intermediaries will otherwise remain subject to the general delivery
requirements of the rules, including compliance with the requirements for making offers
pursuant to Rule 251(d)(1) and for including a preliminary offering circular in any
solicitation materials used after filing the offering statement with the Commission
pursuant to Rule 255. As proposed and adopted, the delivery requirements under the
final rules apply to both issuers and participating broker-dealers. 258 We believe these
delivery requirements are an important investor protection that should apply to issuers in
advance of sale, in addition to their intermediaries, and is consistent with current

256

Prospective purchasers include any person that has indicated an interest in purchasing the
Regulation A securities before qualification, including, but not limited to, those investors that
respond to an issuer’s solicitation materials. See Rule 251(d)(2)(i).

257

In accordance with time of sale provisions discussed in Securities Offering Reform, see Rel. No.
33-8591, at p. 173 et seq., the final rules provide that the 48-hour delivery obligation must be
made in advance of “sale” rather than the “mailing of the confirmation of sale.” See also Section
II.D. below for a discussion of the delivery requirements for solicitation materials used after
publicly filing the offering statement.

258

Issuers may rely on reasonable assurances of delivery from participating broker-dealers to satisfy
their delivery obligations.

73

Regulation A. 259 We are also adopting, as proposed, the requirement that a final offering
circular must accompany or precede any written communications that constitute offers in
the post-qualification period. 260
In addition to the revised delivery requirements discussed above, we are adopting,
as proposed, final rules analogous to Securities Act Rule 173. 261 Rule 251(d)(2)(ii)
requires issuers and participating broker-dealers, not later than two business days after
completion of the sale, to provide the purchaser with a copy of the final offering circular
or a notice stating that the sale occurred pursuant to a qualified offering statement. 262
The notice must include the URL 263 where the final offering circular, or the offering
statement of which such final offering circular is part, may be obtained on EDGAR and
contact information sufficient to notify a purchaser where a request for a final offering
circular can be sent and received in response.
(3)

Withdrawal of an Offering Statement

The final rules will, as proposed, permit an issuer to withdraw an offering
statement, with the Commission’s consent, if none of the securities that are the subject of
259

See also 17 CFR 230.460 (Distribution of Preliminary Prospectus in Registered Offerings).
Additionally, with continued improvements in information and communication technologies, we
believe direct public offerings (i.e., offerings conducted by an issuer without the involvement of
an underwriter) may become a more attractive option for certain issuers. For that reason, it is
important that the advance preliminary offering circular delivery requirements for participating
broker-dealers apply equally to issuers.

260

See Rule 251(d)(1)(iii). For written confirmations and notices of allocation in the postqualification period, issuers and intermediaries may rely on the EDGAR filing of the final offering
circular to satisfy any delivery requirements that may apply under Rule 251(d)(1)(iii). This
approach is consistent with Rule 172(a) in the context of registered offerings. For a discussion of
Rule 172(a), see Securities Offering Reform, Rel. No. 33-8591, at 251.

261

17 CFR 230.173.

262

See Rule 251(d)(2)(ii).

263

As proposed, the final rules make clear that, in the case of an electronic-only offering, the notice
must include an active hyperlink to the final offering circular or to the offering statement of which
such final offering circular is part. See Rule 251(d)(2)(ii)(E).

74

such offering statement have been sold and such offering statement is not the subject of a
Commission order temporarily suspending a Regulation A exemption.264 The final rules
also permit, as proposed, the Commission to declare an offering statement abandoned if
the offering statement has been on file with the Commission for nine months without
amendment and has not become qualified. 265 These withdrawal and abandonment
procedures are similar to the ones that apply to issuers in registered offerings.
2.

Non-Public Submission of Draft Offering Statements
a.

Proposed Rules

We proposed to allow the non-public submission of draft offering statements by
issuers of Regulation A securities. As we noted in the Proposing Release, such
submissions would not be subject to the statutorily-mandated confidentiality of draft
initial public offering (IPO) registration statements confidentially submitted by
“emerging growth companies” 266 under Title I of the JOBS Act. 267 Instead, where an
issuer seeks to non-publicly submit a draft offering statement, the proposal indicated it
could do so in compliance with the Commission’s Rule 83. 268 We also sought comment

264

See Rule 259(a). As discussed in Section II.C.5. below in the context of qualification, we are
amending the delegated authority of the director of the Division of Corporation Finance to permit
the Division to consent to the withdrawal of an offering statement or to declare an offering
statement abandoned, as opposed to requiring the Commission to issue an order. Rule 30-1(b)(3),
17 CFR 200.30-1(b)(3).

265

See Rule 259(b).

266

Under Section 2(a)(19) of the Securities Act, an “emerging growth company” is defined as, among
other things, an issuer that had total annual gross revenues of less than $1 billion during its most
recently completed fiscal year. 15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(19).

267

Under Section 6(e)(2) of the Securities Act, confidential submissions of draft registration
statements by emerging growth companies are protected from compelled disclosure under the
Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) (5 U.S.C. 552). There is no similar provision under
Section 3(b) of the Securities Act.

268

See proposed Rule 252(f); see also Proposing Release, at fn. 212.

75

on whether we should instead adopt a new rule relating to confidential treatment of draft
offering statements in Regulation A.
Under the proposed rules, issuers whose securities have not been previously sold
pursuant to a qualified offering statement under Regulation A or an effective registration
statement under the Securities Act would be permitted to submit to the Commission a
draft offering statement for non-public review. As with the confidential submission of
draft registration statements by emerging growth companies, all non-public submissions
of draft offering statements would be submitted via EDGAR. The initial non-public
submission, all non-public amendments thereto, and correspondence with Commission
staff regarding such submissions would be required to be publicly filed and available on
EDGAR as exhibits to the offering statement not less than 21 calendar days before
qualification of the offering statement. 269 Unlike emerging growth companies in
registered offerings, which must publicly file any confidential submissions not later than
21 calendar days before a road show, the timing requirements for filing by issuers
seeking qualification under Regulation A would not depend on whether or not the issuer
conducts a road show.
b.

Comments on Proposed Rules

Commenters were generally supportive of the proposed non-public submission
process for Regulation A offerings. 270 One commenter recommended keeping all filings
confidential other than the final qualified version and possibly any interim version

269

See proposed Rule 252(f).

270

BIO Letter; McCarter & English Letter; Paul Hastings Letter; Richardson Patel Letter.

76

actually used in conjunction with solicitation materials. 271 Another commenter
recommended requiring the inclusion of a legend on non-public offering statements so
that the confidentiality of such submissions would be automatic, without the need for a
separate confidentiality request, 272 while another commenter recommended treating the
proposed non-public submissions the same way that draft registration statements are
treated under Title I of the JOBS Act. 273
c.

Final Rules

We are adopting rules that will, as proposed, provide for the submission of
non-public draft offering statements under Regulation A. 274 In a change from the
proposal, however, the final rules do not require an issuer seeking non-public staff review
of its draft offering statement to submit such draft pursuant to the Commission’s Rule 83.
Instead, all such draft offering statements under Rule 252(a) shall receive non-public
review. The final rules only permit issuers whose securities have not been previously
sold pursuant to a qualified offering statement under Regulation A or an effective
registration statement under the Securities Act to submit to the Commission a draft
offering statement for non-public review. Consistent with the treatment of draft
registration statements in registered offerings by emerging growth companies, a nonpublicly submitted offering statement must be substantially complete upon submission in
order for staff of the Division of Corporation Finance to begin its review. All non-public
271

Verrill Dana Letter 1.

272

McCarter & English Letter. The Proposing Release indicated that issuers seeking to non-publicly
submit offering statements should submit such statements under cover of the Commission’s
Rule 83, 17 CFR 200.83, which deals with confidential treatment requests.

273

Milken Institute Letter (recommending that the Commission seek Congressional authority, if
necessary, to protect these submissions from requests under the FOIA.

274

See Rule 252(d).

77

submissions of draft offering statements must be submitted via EDGAR, and the initial
non-public submission, all non-public amendments thereto, and correspondence
submitted by or on behalf of the issuer to the Commission staff regarding such
submissions must be publicly filed and available on EDGAR as exhibits to the offering
statement not less than 21 calendar days before qualification of the offering statement.
We do not believe, as was suggested by at least one commenter, 275 that requiring
issuers to file only the qualified version of the offering statement and any earlier versions
used in conjunction with solicitation materials would provide investors with sufficient
disclosure to make informed investment decisions. Further, in light of the preemption of
state securities laws registration requirements for Tier 2 offerings in the final rules, 276 the
21 calendar day filing requirement will insure that state securities regulators are able to
require first-time issuers that non-publicly submit draft offering statements to file such
material with them for a minimum of 21 calendar days before any potential sales to
investors in their respective states. 277 Unlike emerging growth companies, the timing
requirement for filing by issuers seeking qualification under Regulation A does not
depend on whether or not the issuer conducts a road show or tests the waters in a
contemplated offering before qualification. 278
275

Verrill Dana Letter 1.

276

See discussion in Section II.H. below.

277

Notwithstanding the final rules that provide for the preemption of state securities laws’ registration
and qualification requirements of Tier 2 offerings, state securities regulators retain, among other
things, their authority to require the filing with them of any documents filed with the Commission.
See, e.g., Section 18(c)(2) of the Securities Act. The timing of filing requirements at the state
level, however, may reduce the time period in which an offering statement and related materials
are on file with the state before Commission qualification.

278

See Section II.D. below for a discussion on the timing and requirements for the use of solicitation
materials under Rule 255. Regulation A’s testing the waters provisions encompass a variety of
activities, including, but not limited to, activities that could constitute a traditional road show.

78

Unlike Title I of the JOBS Act, Title IV does not provide for confidential submissions
of offering statements under Regulation A. 279 Consequently, the requirements of the FOIA

are controlling on the scope of the Commission’s ability to adopt confidentiality rules for
non-publicly submitted offering statements. We are therefore not adopting any specific
additional rule or requirement for non-public submissions that would deem such
submissions “confidential.” However, where an issuer seeks confidential treatment for
non-publicly submitted offering materials, or any portion thereof, for which it believes an
exemption from the FOIA exists, it should continue to do so in compliance with the
Commission’s Rule 83. 280
While non-publicly submitted offering statements must be submitted
electronically on EDGAR, the Commission and its staff will not make such offering
statements publicly available on EDGAR as a matter of course. 281 The treatment of nonpublic submissions in this regard is consistent with the Commission staff’s approach to
the public availability of draft registration statements submitted by foreign private issuers
for registered offerings. 282 As there is no statutory basis for withholding non-public
submissions from production, absent an exemption from the FOIA, 283 issuers that rely on
our provisions for non-public submission should be aware that the Commission may,
under certain circumstances, be compelled to provide such materials to a requesting party
279

See fn. 267 above.

280

See 17 CFR 200.83. Where an issuer seeks confidential treatment of any information included in
a publicly filed offering statement or related materials, it should do so in compliance with
Securities Act Rule 406. See 17 CFR 230.406. See Rule 251(e) (confidential treatment).

281

This is in contrast to publicly filed draft and final offering statements that will be made
automatically available on EDGAR at the time of filing.

282

See Non-Public Submissions from Foreign Private Issuers, available at:
http://www.sec.gov/divisions/corpfin/internatl/nonpublicsubmissions.htm.

283

See 5 U.S.C. 552.

79

(or to otherwise make them publicly available) before the date on which an issuer would
otherwise have been required to publicly file on EDGAR.
3.

Form and Content

Section 3(b)(2)(G)(i) of the Securities Act identifies certain disclosure
requirements that the Commission may require for offerings relying on the Regulation A
exemption. The requirements largely coincide with the existing offering statement
disclosure requirements of Form 1-A, such as financial statements, 284 a description of the
issuer’s business operations, 285 financial condition, 286 and use of investor funds. 287 The
proposed rules, comments received on the proposed rules, and the final rules being
adopted today for each of Part I, II, and III of Form 1-A are discussed in detail below.
a.

Part I (Notification)
(1)

Proposed Rules

Part I of Form 1-A serves as a notice of certain basic information about the issuer
and its proposed offering, which also helps to confirm the availability of the
exemption. 288 As proposed, Part I of Form 1-A would be converted into an online XMLbased fillable form with indicator boxes or buttons and text boxes and would be filed

284

See Form 1-A, Part II, Part F/S (2014). Section 3(b)(2)(G)(i) also contemplates that the
Commission may require issuers to submit audited financial statements. Currently, the financial
statements required under Regulation A need to be audited only if the issuer has them otherwise
available.

285

Id., Part II, e.g., Model B, Item 6 (Description of Business).

286

Id., e.g., Part F/S.

287

Id., e.g., Item 5 (Use of Proceeds to Issuer).

288

Rel. No. 33-6275 [46 FR 2637], at 2638.

80

online with the Commission. 289 The information would be publicly available on
EDGAR, as an online data cover sheet, but not otherwise required to be distributed to
investors. 290
(2)

Comments on Proposed Rules

We received several comments with recommendations specific to certain items on
Part I of Form 1-A. With respect to Item 1 of Part I, one commenter recommended
defining the term “publicly traded,” eliminating the “Financial Statements” section of
Item 1 of Part I or conforming it to the existing disclosures required by Item 301 of
Regulation S-K, or conforming the line item descriptions in Item 1 to those in
Regulation S-X. 291 Other commenters recommended clarifying that an auditor and
related fees need not be listed in Part I if audited financial statements are not included. 292
With respect to Item 5 of Part I, another commenter supported the proposal’s inclusion of
checkboxes specifying the jurisdictions in which the securities are intended to be
offered, 293 while a different commenter recommended expanding the list of jurisdictions
so that issuers could indicate the Canadian provinces in which they intended to conduct

289

As proposed, the cover page to current Form 1-A would be eliminated as a standalone
requirement, while portions of the information required on the cover page would be combined
with Item 1 of Part I of Form 1-A in the XML fillable form.

290

The Commission would make the information available on EDGAR in a format that provides
normal text for reading and XML-tagged data for analysis. With the exception of the items that
focus issuers on eligibility to use Regulation A, much of the information called for in the
XML-based fillable form is also required to be disclosed to investors in Part II of Form 1-A.

291

Letter from Ernst & Young LLP, March 24, 2014 (“E&Y Letter”).

292

Letter from Cynthia M. Fornelli, Executive Director, Center for Audit Quality, March 24, 2014
(“CAQ Letter”); Letter from Deloitte & Touche LLP, March 24, 2014 (“Deloitte Letter”); E&Y
Letter; Letter from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, March 24, 2014 (“PwC Letter”).

293

NASAA Letter 2.

81

their offerings. 294 With respect to Item 6 of Part I, one commenter recommended
defining the term “affiliated issuer.” 295 This commenter recommended defining the term
to refer to entities controlled by the issuer, noting that otherwise it may require disclosure
by parent and sister entities, which is information unrelated to the capitalization of the
issuer.
Other commenters recommended including additional disclosure in Part I. Two
of these commenters recommended requiring issuers to include their website address and
the jurisdiction of their principal place of business. 296 These commenters also objected to
removing the disclosure and contact information for persons that are covered by the bad
actor rules. 297
(3)

Final Rules

With the exception of technical clarifications, we are adopting provisions for
Part I as proposed. The notification in Part I of Form 1-A will require disclosure in
response to the following items:
•

Item 1. (Issuer Information) will require information about the issuer’s identity,
industry, number of employees, financial statements and capital structure, as well
as contact information. 298

294

Letter from Mike Liles, Jr., Attorney, Karr Tuttle Campbell, January 17, 2014 (“Karr Tuttle
Letter”).

295

Paul Hastings Letter.

296

NASAA Letter 2; WDFI Letter. These commenters requested that this information be included in
XBRL format, rather than XML. We note that XBRL is a form of XML, and generally requires
labeling information with data “tags” rather than providing the information through fillable forms.

297

NASAA Letter 2; WDFI Letter.

298

Some of the information in Item 1, such as the name of the issuer, jurisdiction of incorporation,
contact information, primary Standard Industrial Classification Code Number, and I.R.S.
Employer Identification Number is already required to be included on the cover page of Form 1-A.

82

•

Item 2. (Issuer Eligibility) will require the issuer to certify that it meets various
issuer eligibility criteria.

•

Item 3. (Application of Rule 262 (“bad actor” disqualification and disclosure)) will
require the issuer to certify that no disqualifying events have occurred and to
indicate whether related disclosure will be included in the offering circular (i.e.,
events that would have been disqualifying, but occurred before the effective date of
the amendments to Regulation A). 299

•

Item 4. (Summary Information Regarding the Offering and other Current or
Proposed Offerings) will include indicator boxes or buttons and text boxes eliciting
information about the offering (including whether the issuer is conducting a Tier 1
or Tier 2 offering, amount and type of securities offered, proposed sales by selling
securityholders and affiliates, type of offering, estimated aggregate sales of any
concurrent offerings pursuant to Regulation A, anticipated fees in connection with
the offering, and the names of audit and legal service providers, underwriters, and
certain others providing services in connection with the offering).

•

Item 5. (Jurisdictions in Which Securities are to be Offered) will include
information about the jurisdiction(s) in which the securities will be offered.

•

Item 6. (Unregistered Securities Issued or Sold Within One Year) will require
disclosure about unregistered issuances or sales of securities within the last year,
but will not include a requirement to provide the names and identities of the
persons to whom unregistered securities were issued.

299

See discussion of Rule 262(a)(3) and (a)(5) in Section II.G. below.

83

We are adopting, as proposed, further changes to Part I of Form 1-A. We are
eliminating Item 1 (Significant Parties) of current Part I, which requires disclosure of the
names, business address, and residential address of all the persons covered by current
Rule 262. Instead, we are requiring only narrative disclosure in Part II of Form 1-A when
the issuer has determined that a relevant party has a disclosable, but not disqualifying,
“bad actor” event. 300 We also are eliminating Item 3 of current Part I relating to affiliate
sales, because we are eliminating the current restrictions on affiliate resales under
Rule 251(b). 301 Information about the amount of expected secondary sales and the
existence of affiliate sales in the offering, however, will continue to be disclosed in
Item 4. Item 6 (Other Present or Proposed Offerings) and Item 9 (Use of a Solicitation of
Interest Document) of current Part I will be incorporated into Item 4 (Summary
Information Regarding the Offering and Other Current or Proposed Offerings). We also
are eliminating Item 7 (Marketing Arrangements) and Item 8 (Relationship with Issuer of
Experts Named in Offering Statement) of current Part I, as disclosure of this information
is required in Part II (Offering Circular).
Some of the technical changes from the proposed rules are non-substantive
procedural revisions to the form that are needed to conform the form with the technical
requirements of EDGAR, while the others will, as suggested by commenters, provide
clarifications to the terms and requirements of Part I.

300

See discussion in Section II.G. below.

301

The primary purpose of Item 3 (Affiliate Sales) in Part I of Form 1-A (2014) is to ensure
compliance with certain restrictions on affiliate resales under Rule 251(b). See discussion in
Section II.B.3. above.

84

We do not, however, believe that the additional disclosure items suggested by
some commenters, 302 such as the issuer’s website address and the jurisdiction of the
issuer’s principal place of business, are necessary additional disclosures in Part I of
Form 1-A. As proposed and adopted, Item 1 (Issuer Information) of Part I requires
issuers to disclose the location of their principal executive offices, while Item 1 (Cover
Page of Offering Circular) of Part II requires issuers to provide investors with their
website address, if the issuer has a website. In light of these required disclosures, we do
not believe that the additional suggested disclosure items for Part I are necessary or
would provide investors with any additional relevant information about the issuer.
Additionally, notwithstanding the view of some commenters, 303 we do not believe that
the disclosure requirements for the application of Rule 262 (Disqualification Provisions)
in Item 3 to Part I of Form 1-A need to include descriptions and addresses of persons that
trigger disqualification for several reasons. An issuer that has a disqualified person
involved in its offering will not be eligible to conduct a Regulation A offering, issuers
will have to certify their compliance with Rule 262, and, with the exception of the
addresses of covered persons, much of the requested disclosure, as it applies to persons
that would have been disqualified but whose conduct occurred before effectiveness of the
final rules or have received a waiver from disqualification, 304 will be required in Part II of

302

NASAA Letter 2; WDFI Letter.

303

Id.

304

Rule 262(b)(1)-(2).

85

the offering statement. 305 Therefore, as proposed and adopted, the final rules for Part I of
Form 1-A no longer require the disclosure of such information.
Consistent with a comment received, 306 we are making technical amendments to
the financial statement requirements of Item 1 (Issuer Information) of Part I to clarify and
require the use of certain industry-specific terminology and, wherever possible, to use
terminology that is consistent with Regulation S-X and GAAP. These changes are
designed to minimize potential confusion on the part of issuers in the banking and
insurance industries that could result from the use of more general financial accounting
terminology. We disagree, however, with the suggestion that we eliminate the financial
statement section. 307 As we noted in the Proposing Release, the disclosure of this type of
information will provide the Commission (and market participants) with more
information about the Regulation A market as it develops to use as it considers potential
changes to the regulation in the future. We also believe that the disclosure of this
information will provide relevant and useful information about issuers and their offerings
to investors and market participants that will help to facilitate informed investment
decisions. We do not anticipate that the disclosure of financial information in response to
Item 1 to Part I of Form 1-A will materially alter the compliance obligations of issuers
given that the requirements draw from disclosure already required in the financial
statements included in the offering circular. Additionally, we are revising Item 1 to

305

See paragraph (a)(2) to Part II of Form 1-A. Additionally, underwriters, those receiving sales
commissions and finders’ fees, promoters, counsel, executive officers, directors, and significant
securityholders, among others, must be identified in the offering statement in most instances. See,
e.g., Item 4 of Part I and Items 1, 10, and 11 of the Offering Circular, Part II of Form 1-A.

306

E&Y Letter.

307

Id.

86

require issuers to provide up to two e-mail addresses to which the Commission’s staff
may send comment letters relating to an offering statement, rather than making this
optional as proposed. The e-mail addresses, however, will no longer be disseminated
with the filings. We believe this change will result in faster reviews of offering
statements by the Commission’s staff. 308 Finally, consistent with the concerns
underlying a comment we received, we recognize that the use of the term “publicly
traded” in the outstanding securities table of Item 1 may be confusing in the context of a
Regulation A offering. 309 Accordingly, we have revised Item 1 to only request the name
of the trading center or quotation medium, if any, for outstanding securities.
Consistent with the views of several commenters, 310 we are clarifying that in the
fee table included in Item 4 of Part I (Summary Information Regarding the Offering and
Other Current or Proposed Offerings), auditor fees only need to be disclosed when the
issuer is providing audited financial statements because, for example, an auditor might
not be used for a Tier 1 offering. 311 This and similar items in the fee table could be left
blank if not applicable and responses could be clarified in the text box following the
table.

308

In the review of registered offerings the Commission’s staff will call filers to obtain e-mail
addresses so as to issue comment letters electronically. Depending on the responsiveness of the
filer, this can be a time consuming process.

309

See E&Y Letter.

310

See fn. 292 above.

311

Disclosure is only required in the fee table to the extent applicable fees were incurred by the issuer
in connection with the offering.

87

As suggested by one commenter, 312 we are expanding the list of jurisdictions in
Item 5 (Jurisdiction in Which Securities are to be Offered) so that issuers can indicate the
Canadian provinces in which they intend to conduct their offerings. 313
Finally, in response to one comment, 314 we are clarifying, in this release, that the
scope of the term “affiliated issuer” in proposed Item 6 of Part I is only meant to include
affiliates of the issuer that are issuing securities in the same offering for which
qualification is currently being sought under Regulation A. We believe this clarification
is necessary in the final rules in order to avoid potential confusion among issuers as to the
scope of the definition, in light of the broader definition of “affiliate” as it appears in
Securities Act Rule 405. 315
b.

Part II (Offering Circular)
(1)

Narrative Disclosure

(a)

Proposed Rules for Narrative Disclosure

Part II (Offering Circular) in existing Form 1-A provides issuers with three
options for their narrative disclosure: Model A, Model B, and Part I of Form S-1. 316 We
proposed to eliminate the Model A question-and-answer format as a disclosure option, to
update and retain Model B as a disclosure option (renaming it “Offering Circular”), and

312

Karr Tuttle Letter.

313

Item 5 of Part I of proposed Form 1-A did not include Canadian provinces, despite Canadian
issuers being eligible issuers. Item 5, as adopted, corrects the form for Canadian issuers or for
offerings that contemplate offers or sales in Canada.

314

Paul Hastings Letter.

315

Rule 405 defines “affiliate” to include, among other things, persons controlling the issuer or under
common control with the issuer. 17 CFR 230.405.

316

Non-corporate issuers are not permitted to use Model A.

88

to continue to permit issuers to rely on Part I of Form S-1 to satisfy the disclosure
obligations of Part II of Form 1-A. 317
We further proposed to create new requirements for audited financial statements
and for a section containing management’s discussion and analysis (MD&A) of the
issuer’s liquidity, capital resources, and results of operations. 318 As proposed, issuers that
have not generated revenue from operations during each of the three fiscal years
immediately before the filing of the offering statement would be required to describe
their plan of operations for the 12 months following qualification of the offering
statement, including a statement about whether, in the issuer’s opinion, it will be
necessary to raise additional funds within the next six months to implement the plan of
operations. 319
Consistent with the treatment of issuers in registered offerings, we further
proposed to permit issuers to incorporate by reference into Part II of Form 1-A certain
items previously submitted or filed on EDGAR, regardless of whether they were
provided pursuant to Regulation A disclosure requirements. As proposed, incorporation
by reference would be limited to documents publicly submitted or filed under
Regulation A and issuers would have to be subject to the ongoing reporting obligations
for Tier 2 offerings. 320 Issuers would be required to describe the information
317

See Proposing Release, at Section II.C.3.

318

See Proposing Release, at Section II.C.3(b)(1).

319

See Item 9(c) of Offering Circular, Part II of proposed Form 1-A.

320

Issuers following the Offering Circular disclosure model would be permitted to incorporate by
reference Items 2 through 14, whereas issuers following the narrative disclosure in Part I of
Form S-1 would be permitted to incorporate by reference Items 3 through 11 (other than
Item 11(e)) of Part I of Form S-1. See General Instruction III to proposed Form 1-A. As with
Model B, the item numbers in the Offering Circular format of proposed Part II of Form 1-A and
Part I of Form S-1 do not align.

89

incorporated by reference, and include a separate hyperlink to the relevant document on
EDGAR, which need not remain active after the filing of the related offering statement.
(b)

Comments on Proposed Rules

Several commenters recommended against the proposed elimination of the Model
A disclosure format, and instead recommended that the Commission retain an updated
version of the format. 321 Two of these commenters recommended including a Model A
disclosure format that reflects the most recent version of NASAA’s Form U-7. 322 One
commenter recommended retaining existing Form 1-A with minor changes until such
time as the Commission and NASAA could develop an improved form. 323 Six
commenters, however, suggested that the Commission eliminate Model A and the
proposed Offering Circular disclosure formats and instead recommended requiring
disclosure by reference to Regulation S-K (with reduced disclosure requirements in some
instances). 324 These commenters believed that such a change would increase efficiency
and comparability. One of these commenters was concerned that differences between
Items 303 and 402 of Regulation S-K and the comparable disclosure requirements of the
Offering Circular format might cause confusion. 325 Two commenters recommended
requiring REITs to incorporate certain of the items contained in Industry Guide 5 and
Form S-11. 326
321

BIO Letter; Karr Tuttle Letter; NASAA Letter 2; Verrill Dana Letter 1; WDFI Letter.

322

Karr Tuttle Letter; Verrill Dana Letter 1.

323

NASAA Letter 2.

324

Canaccord Letter; CFIRA Letter 1; E&Y Letter; Ladd Letter 2 (recommending the change only to
the extent that the Commission believed it would increase the speed of staff reviews); McCarter &
English Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co Letter.

325

E&Y Letter.

326

ABA BLS Letter; MoFo Letter.

90

Several commenters had specific recommendations on disclosure requirements.
Four commenters recommended that the Commission find a way to require more concise
risk factor disclosure. 327 One of these commenters recommended possibly imposing a
limit on the number of risk factors or guidance to avoid repetition and emphasizing that
disclosure should not be repeated throughout the offering circular. 328 Two commenters
recommended expanding the dilution disclosure requirement in the Offering Circular
format’s Item 4. 329 As proposed, Item 4 only requires disclosure of any material disparity
between the public offering price and the effective cash cost to insiders over the past
year. These commenters recommended removing the one year restriction. One
commenter recommended focusing the disclosure requirements in the offering statement
on valuation assessments and a discussion of management’s expectations about the
company’s future performance, including projections. 330 Another commenter
recommended requiring disclosure of the names of “those holding more than 20% of
shares” and a description of the ownership and capital structure, including descriptions of
how the exercise of rights by principal shareowners could negatively affect the
purchasers of shares being offered. 331 Two commenters recommended reducing and
clarifying the disclosure obligations for executive compensation and management’s
discussion and analysis for smaller offerings. 332 One commenter recommended requiring
327

CFIRA Letter 1; MoFo Letter; SVB Financial Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co Letter.

328

WR Hambrecht + Co Letter.

329

NASAA Letter 2; WDFI Letter.

330

WR Hambrecht + Co Letter (indicating that, absent this requirement, such information would be
shared orally by management or research analysts with only the biggest investors).

331

CFA Institute Letter.

332

Letter from Rutheford B. Campbell, Jr., Spears-Gilbert Professor of Law, University of Kentucky,
March 5, 2014 (“Campbell Letter”); MoFo Letter (recommending that the Commission reduce and

91

disclosure regarding the existence of a code of ethics and corporate governance principles
in a manner that would encourage issuers to adopt internal controls. 333
(c)

Final Rules for Narrative Disclosure

With the exception of clarifying changes, certain additional scaled disclosure
items applicable to Tier 1 offerings, and additional guidance to issuers designed to
streamline disclosure, we are adopting final rules for narrative disclosure in Form 1-A
substantially as proposed. As adopted, Offering Circular disclosure in Part II of
Form 1-A will cover: 334
•

Basic information about the issuer and the offering, including identification of
any underwriters and disclosure of any underwriting discounts and
commissions (Item 1: Cover Page of Offering Circular);

•

Table of Contents (Item 2);

•

The most significant factors that make the offering speculative or substantially
risky (Item 3: Summary and Risk Factors);

•

Material disparities between the public offering price and the effective cash
costs for shares acquired by insiders during the past year (Item 4: Dilution);

•

Plan of distribution for the offering and disclosure regarding selling
securityholders (Item 5: Plan of Distribution and Selling Securityholders);

•

Use of proceeds (Item 6: Use of Proceeds to Issuer);

clarify the disclosure obligations for executive compensation and management’s discussion and
analysis by eliminating the need to repeat information already required to be included in the
financial statements, reducing the number of years of business experience disclosure required to be
included and clarifying the instructions of the executive compensation section).
333

Ladd Letter 2 (referring to PCAOB AU 325 and 9325).

334

Financial statements disclosure requirements for Part F/S of Form 1-A are discussed in
Section II.C.3.b(2)(c). below.

92

•

Business operations of the issuer for the prior three fiscal years (or, if in
existence for less than three years, since inception) (Item 7: Description of
Business);

•

Material physical properties (Item 8: Description of Property);

•

Discussion and analysis of the issuer’s liquidity and capital resources and
results of operations through the eyes of management covering the two most
recently completed fiscal years and interim periods, if required; and, for
issuers that have not received revenue from operations during each of the
three fiscal years immediately before the filing of the offering statement (or
since inception, whichever is shorter), the plan of operations for the 12 months
following qualification of the offering statement, including a statement about
whether the issuer anticipates that it will be necessary to raise additional funds
within the next six months (Item 9: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations);

•

Identification of directors, executive officers and significant employees with a
discussion of any family relationships within that group, business experience
during the past five years, and involvement in certain legal proceedings during
the past five years (Item 10: Directors, Executive Officers and Significant
Employees);

•

Group-level executive compensation disclosure for the most recent fiscal year
for the three highest paid executive officers or directors with Tier 2 requiring
individual disclosure of the three highest paid executive officers or directors
(Item 11: Compensation of Directors and Executive Officers);

93

•

Beneficial ownership of voting securities by executive officers, directors, and
10% owners (Item 12: Security Ownership of Management and Certain
Securityholders);

•

Transactions with related persons, promoters and certain control persons
(Item 13: Interest of Management and Others in Certain Transactions);

•

The material terms of the securities being offered (Item 14: Securities Being
Offered); and

•

Any events that would have triggered disqualification of the offering under
Rule 262 if the issuer could not rely on the provisions in Rule 262(b)(1). 335

The final rules eliminate Model A as a disclosure format for Regulation A
offerings, as proposed. While some commenters suggested that the Commission should
preserve Model A as an additional disclosure format for Part II of Form 1-A or update
existing Model A with NASAA’s more recent Form U-7, we are not persuaded that a
question-and-answer format should be retained in the final rules. As we noted in the
Proposing Release, the Model A disclosure format has historically been used less
frequently, and resulted in less-uniform disclosure and a longer time to qualification than
the Model B disclosure format. 336 We do not believe that the use of Form U-7, which is
largely similar to Model A and is also in a question-and-answer format, will alter this
result. While the question-and-answer disclosure format does provide issuers with
additional flexibility, we believe that the Offering Circular disclosure format (formerly

335

See discussion of the final disqualification provisions in Section II.G. below. The final rules
require issuers to provide this “bad actor” disclosure even if it elects to follow the Part I of
Form S-1 disclosure format.

336

See Proposing Release, at Section II.C.3.

94

called Model B) and Part I of Forms S-1 or S-11 provide issuers with sufficient flexibility
in choosing their disclosure format without any of the potential delays or uniform
disclosure issues associated with Model A, either currently or even if it is updated with
Form U-7. We are further concerned that a question-and-answer format may not best
serve the interests of investors in Regulation A offerings by providing them with lessuniform disclosure in a potentially unfamiliar format. Additionally, we are concerned
that a question-and-answer format may incorrectly lead issuers to believe that, despite the
guidance contained in the form itself, less complete disclosure is required under this
format, thereby causing unnecessary delays in the qualification process. Lastly, and
particularly with respect to Tier 2 offerings, we do not believe that a question-and-answer
format is appropriate for issuers and investors in larger-sized offerings that generally
benefit from disclosure that is comparable between offerings in format and information
disclosed. For similar reasons, we do not believe that this format is appropriate in
offerings of any size by issuers that seek to foster potential trading in the secondary
markets. 337
As proposed, the final rules will require issuers to provide disclosure in Part II of
Form 1-A that follows the Offering Circular or Part I of Form S-1 disclosure format.
Additionally, we agree with commenters that certain additional disclosure requirements
may be appropriate for offerings by REITs and similar issuers. The final rules, therefore,
also permit issuers to follow, in addition to the Offering Circular and Part I of Form S-1
formats, the form disclosure requirements of Part I of Form S-11. 338 An issuer may,
337

See Section II.E. below for a discussion of the final rules for ongoing reporting.

338

As proposed, issuers must choose one format to follow for the offering circular and may not
combine items from different formats. See General Instruction II to proposed and final Form 1-A.

95

however, only use Part I of Form S-11 if the securities are eligible to be registered on that
form. As proposed and adopted with respect to disclosure under Part I of Form S-1,
issuers following Part I of Form S-11 may follow smaller reporting company narrative
disclosure requirements if they meet the definition of that term in Securities Act
Rule 405. 339
Contrary to the suggestions of some commenters, we are not adopting rules that
would limit the number of risk factors disclosed. While we appreciate the concern that
certain issuers and their advisors may take an overly cautious approach to the application
of our disclosure requirements resulting in numerous risk disclosures, the decision as to
the appropriate mix of information that should be disclosed to investors must be based on
the particular facts and circumstances of each company. We do not believe that a limit
on risk factor disclosure is an appropriate substitute for the judgments of issuers and their
advisors. A form-based limitation on the number of risk factors, beyond the guidance in
Item 3 of Part II, could lead to incomplete disclosure that may place investors at a higher
risk of potential loss and issuers at a higher risk for potential litigation if it results in
appropriate risk factors being excluded.
Further, we believe that certain other commenter concerns and suggestions as to
specific narrative disclosures are already appropriately addressed by the final rules. For
example, one commenter suggested that we require disclosure of the names of those
holding more than 20% beneficial ownership of the issuer and a description of the

In order to avoid confusion and to facilitate the review of offering circulars by investors and the
Commission’s staff, the final rules will also require issuers to indicate on the offering circular
cover page which format they are following. See Part II(a)(1) of Form 1-A.
339

17 CFR 230.405.

96

issuer’s ownership and capital structure, including descriptions of the exercise of rights of
principal shareholders. 340 The final rules substantially address these topics. Item 12 of
the Offering Circular, as proposed and adopted, requires disclosure relating to more than
10% beneficial ownership and Item 14, which is adopted as proposed, requires disclosure
of the terms of all classes of outstanding capital stock.
As adopted, the Offering Circular includes disclosure based on disclosure
guidelines set forth in the Securities Act Industry Guides as well as guidance applicable
to limited partnerships and limited liability companies. 341 As suggested by
commenters, 342 in order to create more flexibility in disclosure matters for smaller
issuers, we are adding a materiality threshold for disclosure as it relates to time and dollar
expenditures on research and development. 343 Additionally, the final rules require issuers
to provide financial statements, which in the case of Tier 2 offerings must be audited, 344
as well as a section on management’s discussion and analysis (MD&A) of the issuer’s
liquidity, capital resources, and results of operations. 345 We are amending the MD&A
disclosure requirements in Item 9 to align more closely with the language in
Regulation S-K that applies to domestic registrants 346 and smaller reporting
340

CFA Institute Letter.

341

See Item 7(c)-(d) of Offering Circular, Part II of Form 1-A ; see also Rel. No. 33-6900 (June 17,
1991) [56 FR 28979] (setting forth the Commission’s view on the disclosure requirements for
limited partnerships).

342

CFIRA Letter 1; MoFo Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co Letter.

343

Item 7(a)(1)(iii) of Offering Circular, Part II of Form 1-A.

344

See discussion in Section II.C.3.b(2)(c). below.

345

See Item 9 of Offering Circular, Part II of Form 1-A.

346

Item 9(b)(1) of Offering Circular, Part II of proposed Form 1-A is amended to track more closely
the language and requirements of domestic issuers, as opposed to foreign private issuers. As
proposed, the language more closely followed the requirements contained in Form 20-F for
foreign private issuers.

97

companies. 347 Consistency with Regulation S-K in this regard may assist companies with
compliance with the rules for registered offerings to the extent Tier 2 issuers eventually
become Exchange Act reporting companies, while also making sure that Regulation A
issuers do not have a greater disclosure obligation than registered domestic issuers. 348
Further, consistent with the proposed rules, issuers that have not generated revenue from
operations during each of the three fiscal years immediately before the filing of the
offering statement (or since inception, whichever is shorter) will be required to describe
their plan of operations for the 12 months following qualification of the offering
statement. 349 For companies that have been in existence for less than three years, the
final rules clarify that this disclosure requirement applies to them since inception. 350
The changes to the Offering Circular format adopted today will result in Offering
Circular disclosure, particularly for Tier 2 offerings, more akin to what is required of
smaller reporting companies in a prospectus for a registered offering. For example, the
final rules require issuers in both Tier 1 and Tier 2 offerings to disclose beneficial
ownership of their voting securities, as opposed to record ownership of voting and nonvoting securities. 351 With respect to transactions with related persons, promoters, and
certain control persons in Tier 2 offerings, issuers will no longer be required to disclose
transactions in excess of $50,000 in the prior two years (or similar transactions currently
347

We are eliminating proposed Item 9(b)(2)-(3) of Offering Circular, Part II of Form 1-A. As
proposed, these disclosures would have increased the disclosure obligations of Regulation A
issuers in comparison to those required of smaller reporting companies under Item 305 of
Regulation S-K. 17 CFR 229.305.

348

See also discussion of the final rules for simplifying Exchange Act registration of Tier 2 issuers in
Section II.E.3.c. below.

349

Item 9(c) of Offering Circular, Part II of Form 1-A.

350

Id.

351

Item 12 of Offering Circular, Part II of Form 1-A.

98

contemplated), but rather must follow the requirements for smaller reporting company
disclosure of transactions during the prior two fiscal years that exceed the lesser of
$120,000 or 1% of the average total assets at year end for the last two completed fiscal
years. 352 We originally proposed to apply this threshold to Tier 1 offerings also, but
believe that the 1% of average total assets threshold could result in a lower disclosure
threshold for smaller issuers than was otherwise required of such issuers under the
existing rules. The final rules therefore preserve the related party transaction disclosure
requirements of Regulation A, as they existed before the adoption of final rules today, for
Tier 1 offerings so that issuers in such offerings are only required to disclose such
transactions in excess of $50,000 in the prior two years (or similar transactions currently
contemplated). 353
In addition to preserving the related party transaction disclosure threshold for
Tier 1 offerings, we are adopting a change applicable to Tier 1 that will provide an
additional scaled disclosure option for issuers in the Offering Circular. This change is
consistent with the general views of a number of commenters that urged the Commission
to consider additional potential scaling for smaller issuers generally and Tier 1 offerings
in particular. 354 The final rules alter the format of, but not the ultimate aggregate amount
of information required to be disclosed in, the proposed executive compensation
disclosure requirements for Tier 1 offerings. Instead of providing executive
352

Item 13 of Offering Circular, Part II of Form 1-A. As adopted, Tier 2 issuers that have more than
$5 million in average total assets at year end for the last two completed fiscal years would be
required to disclose related party transactions at a higher threshold (i.e., 1% or more) than was
previously required under Regulation A, which required the disclosure of transactions in excess of
$50,000 in the prior two years.

353

Id.

354

See, e.g., Campbell Letter; MoFo Letter.

99

compensation data on an individual basis for the three highest paid officers or directors
and on a group basis for all directors, as was proposed for both Tier 1 and Tier 2, issuers
in Tier 1 offerings will instead be required to disclose only group-level compensation
data as it applies to the three highest paid executives or directors and all directors as a
collective group, including the number of persons comprising such group, covering the
period of the issuer’s last completed fiscal year. 355 In this regard, the final rules for
Tier 1 offerings will continue to require the disclosure of important compensation data to
investors, but on an aggregate, rather than individual, basis. The group-level disclosure
format for the highest paid executives and all directors should help smaller issuers avoid
some of the harm that could follow compensation disclosure of individual executives or
directors to the market and competitors, especially when disclosure of such information
would not necessarily be required in the context of a private placement or other exempt
offering. 356 Further, the additional requirement to disclose the total number of persons
comprising any group for which group-level data is required to be disclosed will preserve
the ability of investors in Tier 1 offerings to determine the average compensation paid to
all persons within the group. 357 Consistent with the suggestions of some commenters, 358

355

See Item 11 of Offering Circular, Part II of Form 1-A. The number of persons comprising the
director-level group data is also required of issuers providing compensation data under Tier 2.

356

For example, there are no rule-based disclosure requirements for private placements pursuant to
Rule 506 of Regulation D, 17 CFR 230.500 et seq., when the issuer only sells to accredited
investors. Contrary to the requirements of Regulation D, we believe mandated compensation (and
other) disclosure is appropriate in the context of a public offering under Regulation A.
Additionally, however, we believe that the final disclosure rules for such information are
appropriately tailored to provide information to investors.

357

This requirement is a change to the disclosure requirements of group-level data in both Tiers.
Although this information would have been ascertainable under Tier 2 by comparing the grouplevel disclosure of director compensation to the number of directors disclosed pursuant to Item 10
of the Offering Circular, we believe the change will facilitate investors’ calculations of average
director compensation without significantly increasing the burden on Tier 2 issuers.

100

we believe that this change to the final rules will assist smaller issuers with more
appropriately tailored executive compensation disclosure requirements and will provide
investors with useful information.
We do not, however, believe that further scaling of smaller issuers’ MD&A is
necessary under the final rules. As we noted in the Proposing Release, while the final
rules provide issuers with more detailed instructions on MD&A disclosure, similar
disclosure is already called for under existing requirements. 359 The final MD&A
requirements clarify existing requirements and will likely save issuers time by providing
more express guidance regarding the type of information and analysis that should be
included. We believe the clearer requirements will lead to improved MD&A disclosure,
which will provide investors with better visibility into management’s perspective on the
issuer’s financial condition and operations. The final provisions for MD&A disclosure in
the Offering Circular, however, are not as extensive as those required under Item 303 of
Regulation S-K. 360 As proposed, the final Offering Circular format includes detailed
guidance and requirements similar to Item 303 with respect to liquidity, capital resources,
and results of operations, including the most significant trend information, 361 but does not
separately call for disclosure of off-balance sheet arrangements or a table of contractual

358

Campbell Letter; MoFo Letter.

359

MD&A disclosure is specifically required by Model A. Model B calls for similar information in
Item 6, which requires disclosure of the characteristics of the issuer’s operations or industry that
may have a material impact upon the issuer’s future financial performance. Item 6 also requires
disclosure of the issuer’s plan of operations and short-term liquidity if the issuer has not received
revenue from operations during each of the three fiscal years immediately prior to filing the
offering statement.

360

17 CFR 229.303.

361

17 CFR 303(a)(1)-(3). Cf. Form 20-F, at Item 5.

101

obligations. 362 Similar to smaller reporting companies in registered offerings, Regulation
A issuers are required to disclose information about the issuer’s results of operations for
the two most recently completed fiscal years and interim periods, when applicable. 363
Except as noted above, the updates to the Offering Circular disclosure
requirements will not result in an overall increase in an issuer’s disclosure obligations.
For example, as mentioned above, certain issuers will have a higher threshold for
reporting related party transactions than would have previously been required under
Regulation A. Additionally, Tier 1 issuers (which will likely be smaller companies) will,
in comparison to the proposed rules, benefit from further scaling of related party
transactions and compensation-related disclosures. Further, as proposed, all issuers will
be permitted to provide more streamlined disclosure of dilutive transactions with insiders
by no longer being required to present a dilution table based on the net tangible book
value per share of the issuer’s securities. 364 While we disagree with commenters that
suggested we should expand disclosure provisions related to dilution, 365 the final rules,
which reduce the disclosure time period from three years to one year, are consistent with
their view that the disclosure of this information should not depend on when such shares
were acquired. We do not believe that information regarding dilution covering more than
362

An issuer may, however, be required to disclose such information during the course of the
qualification process, if material to an understanding of the issuer’s financial condition.

363

When management’s discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations is
provided for interim period financial statements, any material change in financial condition from
the end of the preceding fiscal year to the date of the most recent interim balance sheet should be
discussed. Also, any material changes in results of operations with respect to the most recent
fiscal year-to-date period for which an income statement is provided and the corresponding yearto-date period of the preceding fiscal year shall be discussed. See Instruction 3 to Item 9(a) of the
Offering Circular, Part II of Form 1-A.

364

See Item 4 (Dilution) of the Offering Circular, Part II of Form 1-A.

365

See NASAA Letter 2, at fn. 50; WDFI Letter, at 9.

102

the prior year is necessary for the smaller issuers likely to conduct Regulation A
offerings, nor do we believe that a reduction in the required disclosure from three years to
one year, as proposed and adopted, will negatively affect investor protection.
Additionally, the final provisions for MD&A disclosure clarify existing requirements and
should benefit issuers by providing more express guidance regarding the type of
information and analysis that should be included, including instructions about disclosure
of operating results. We believe that these clarifications should also lead to improved
MD&A disclosure, which will provide investors with better visibility into management’s
perspective on the issuer’s financial condition and results of operations. Investors,
particularly in Tier 2 offerings, will also benefit from disclosure that is more consistent
across issuers in both registered offerings and Regulation A offerings.
We are making one change to the disclosure requirements of Item 6 (Use of
Proceeds) in the final rules. As proposed, issuers were required to disclose if any
material amount of other funds are to be used in conjunction with the proceeds raised in
the offering. If so, an issuer would be required to state the amounts and sources of such
other funds. The final rules include these proposed provisions, but add a requirement that
the issuer further provide disclosure about whether such other funds are firm or
contingent. While we did not receive any comment specifically addressing this issue,
where applicable, this type of information would generally be required to be disclosed as
part of the staff review and comment process before qualification. We believe an express
requirement in the final rules will ultimately save issuers time in the qualification process
and therefore are including language addressing this issue in the final rules. 366
366

See Instruction 5 to Item 6 (Use of Proceeds) of Part II of Form 1-A.

103

For clarity, we are moving the requirements to furnish certain supplemental
information found in Item 7 (Business Description) of Part II to Form 1-A to General
Instruction IV (Supplemental Information) to Form 1-A, where similar requirements are
found. We believe that providing these instructions in one place will help issuers
understand and comply with the process for furnishing supplemental information to the
Commission. The process for furnishing supplemental information to the Commission
pursuant to Form 1-A is similar to the treatment of such information in registered
offerings. 367 Additionally, since we believe it is important for the Commission to be
aware of the existence—rather than the non-existence—of such reports, the final rules no
longer require an issuer to inform the Commission if no such report has been prepared.
Item 7 is further revised to clarify that issuers must only disclose distinctive or special
characteristics of the issuer’s operation or industry that are reasonably likely to have a
material impact on its future financial performance. 368
The final rules also clarify in Item 5 (Plan of Distribution and Selling
Securityholders) the calculation of selling securityholder ownership prior to an offering,
which we believe will facilitate compliance with, and calculations pursuant to, this
requirement. Additionally, in order to avoid potential confusion as to the scope of
Items 11 and 13 to Part II of Form 1-A, the final rules make clear that issuers are required

367

In this regard, we have also clarified in General Instruction IV that supplemental information
provided to the Commission may be returned in certain circumstances and will be handled by the
Commission in a similar manner to supplemental information provided in connection with
registered offerings.

368

The language in proposed Item 7 to Part II of Form 1-A indicated that issuers had to disclose
characteristics that “may” have a material impact on its future financial performance. We believe
this clarifying change in the final rules will help facilitate compliance by smaller issuers.

104

to provide disclosure for “executive officers” rather than “officers.” 369 Contrary to the
suggestion of one commenter, 370 we do not believe that requiring disclosure regarding the
existence of a code of ethics and corporate governance principles should be a required
disclosure item for the types of issuers likely to conduct Regulation A offerings. While
nothing in Part II of Form 1-A would prevent an issuer from providing more disclosure
than is otherwise required in the form itself, we do not believe it would be appropriate to
mandate this type of disclosure for all issuers because we anticipate that issuers of
Regulation A securities will generally be smaller companies with less complex
organizational structures. 371 We further believe that the disclosure requirements of Part
II of Form 1-A will provide investors with the information they need to adequately
evaluate an issuer’s business and securities.
As proposed, the final rules permit issuers to incorporate by reference into Part II
of Form 1-A certain items previously submitted or filed on EDGAR. In a change from
the proposed rules, issuers will be permitted to incorporate by reference any documents
publicly submitted or filed on EDGAR, as opposed to being limited to documents
submitted or filed pursuant to Regulation A. We believe that this change will continue to
facilitate the provision of required information to investors, while taking a consistent
approach to information previously provided to the Commission and publicly available
on EDGAR. Issuers following the Offering Circular disclosure model will be permitted
to incorporate by reference into Items 2 through 14; issuers following the narrative
369

The language in proposed Items 11 and 13 to Part II of Form 1-A indicated that issuers had to
disclose information regarding directors and officers. We believe the clarifying language will help
smaller issuers comply with the final rules.

370

Ladd Letter 2 (referring to PCAOB AU 325 and 9325).

371

See fn. 93 above and Section III.C.3. below.

105

disclosure in Part I of Form S-1 will be permitted to incorporate by reference into Items 3
through 11 (other than Item 11(e)) of Part I of Form S-1; issuers following the narrative
disclosure in Part I of Form S-11 will be permitted to incorporate by reference into
Items 3 through 26, Item 28, and Item 30 of Part I of Form S-11. 372 The final rules
require issuers to describe the information incorporated by reference, and include a
separate hyperlink to the relevant document on EDGAR, which need not remain active
after the filing of the related offering statement. Additionally, Form 1-A encourages
issuers to cross-reference items within the form, where applicable. 373 Further, in order to
avoid incorporation by reference to stale information without requiring the latest version
of the document to be filed, Form 1-A indicates that, if any substantive modification has
occurred in the text of any document incorporated by reference since such document was
filed, the issuer must file with the reference a statement containing the text and date of
such modification. 374
(2)

Financial Statements

(a)

Proposed Rules for Financial Statements

372

See General Instruction III to Form 1-A. Since, as proposed, the financial statements required by
Part F/S would apply to those following the Form S-1 format, rather than Item 11(e), we have
removed the reference to that item in General Instruction III for clarity. Although, as proposed,
Items 11(f) and (g) are also not required for those following the Form S-1 format, we continue to
specifically allow for cross-referencing and incorporation by reference in those items for those
voluntarily choosing to provide such disclosure. As with Model B, the item numbers in the
Offering Circular format of Part II of Form 1-A and Part I of Form S-1 do not align.

373

Id. Issuers may, for example, add a cross-reference to disclosure found in the financial statements.
However, they may not incorporate by reference or add a cross-reference within the financial
statements to disclosures found elsewhere. See General Instruction III to Form 1-A, which does
not allow for incorporation by reference in Part F/S.

374

Cf. Securities Act Rule 411(c) and Exchange Act Rule 12b-32 (providing a similar requirement
when incorporating exhibits by reference in filings under the Securities Act and Exchange Act).

106

Part F/S of Form 1-A currently requires issuers 375 in Regulation A offerings to
provide the following financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP: 376
•

a balance sheet as of a date within 90 days before filing the offering statement
(or as of an earlier date, not more than six months before filing, if the
Commission approves upon a showing of good cause) but, for filings made
more than 90 days after the end of the issuer’s most recent fiscal year, the
balance sheet must be dated as of the end of the fiscal year;

•

statements of income, cash flows, and stockholders’ equity for each of the two
fiscal years preceding the date of the most recent balance sheet, and for any
interim period between the end of the most recent fiscal year and the date of
the most recent balance sheet;

•

financial statements of significant acquired or to be acquired businesses; and

•

pro forma information relating to significant business combinations.

The required financial statements may be unaudited unless the issuer has already obtained
an audit for another purpose. 377
We proposed to generally maintain the existing financial statement requirements
of current Part F/S of Form 1-A for Tier 1 offerings, while requiring Tier 2 issuers to file
audited financial statements. 378 We proposed to require all issuers to file balance sheets

375

The requirements also apply to the issuer’s predecessors or any business to which the issuer is a
successor.

376

See Form 1-A, Part F/S (2014).

377

The issuer would be considered to have audited financial statements if the qualifications and
reports of the auditor meet the requirements of Article 2 of Regulation S-X (17 CFR 210.1 et seq.)
and the audit was conducted in accordance with U.S. GAAS or the standards of the PCAOB. The
auditor is not required to be registered with the PCAOB.

378

See paragraph (c) of Part F/S of proposed Form 1-A.

107

as of the two most recently completed fiscal year ends (or for such shorter time that they
have been in existence), instead of the current requirement to file a balance sheet as of
only the most recently completed fiscal year end. As proposed, financial statements for
U.S.-domiciled issuers would be required to be prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
Additionally, however, we proposed to permit Canadian issuers to prepare financial
statements in accordance with either U.S. GAAP or International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). 379
As proposed, issuers conducting Tier 1 offerings would be required to follow the
requirements for the form and content of their financial statements set out in Part F/S,
rather than the requirements in Regulation S-X. In certain less common circumstances,
however, such as for an acquired business or subsidiary guarantors, Part F/S would direct
issuers conducting Tier 1 offerings to comply with certain portions of Regulation S-X,
which provides guidance on the financial statements required for entities other than the
issuer. 380
For all Tier 2 offerings, the proposed rules would require issuers to follow the
financial statement requirements of Article 8 of Regulation S-X, as if the issuer

379

If the proposed financial statements comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB, such compliance
must be unreservedly and explicitly stated in the notes to the financial statements and the auditor’s
report must include an opinion on whether the financial statements comply with IFRS as issued by
the IASB. See General Rule (a)(2) to Part F/S of proposed Form 1-A. Cf. Item 17(c) of
Form 20-F.

380

We proposed to update the requirements for financial statements of businesses acquired or to be
acquired in Part F/S to refer to the requirements of Rule 8-04 of Regulation S-X. We also
proposed to provide specific references to the relevant provisions of Regulation S-X regarding the
requirements for financial statements of guarantors and the issuers of guaranteed securities
(Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X), financial statements of affiliates whose securities collateralize an
issuance of securities (Rule 3-16 of Regulation S-X), and financial statements provided in
connection with oil and gas producing activities (Rule 4-10 of Regulation S-X). As proposed, the
financial statements provided in these circumstances would only be required to be audited to the
extent the issuer had already obtained an audit of its financial statements for other purposes.

108

conducting a Tier 2 offering were a smaller reporting company, unless otherwise noted in
Part F/S. This requirement would include any financial information with respect to
acquired businesses required by Rule 8-04 and 8-05 of Regulation S-X. 381
As proposed, issuers conducting Tier 2 offerings would be required to have their
financial statements audited. As with Tier 1 offerings, the auditor of financial statements
would need to be independent under Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X and must comply with
the other requirements of Article 2 of Regulation S-X, but need not be
PCAOB-registered. 382 Unlike Tier 1 issuers, issuers conducting Tier 2 offerings would
be required to provide financial statements that are audited in accordance with the
standards issued by the PCAOB.
Additionally, we proposed to update the Form 1-A financial statement
requirements to be consistent with the proposed timetable for ongoing reporting. 383
Under existing Regulation A, issuers are required to prepare a balance sheet as of a date
not more than 90 days before filing the offering statement, or not more than six months
before filing if approved by the Commission upon a showing of good cause. 384 In
practice, issuers often receive a six-month accommodation. If the financial statements

381

Tier 2 issuers would, however, follow paragraph (a)(3) of Part F/S of proposed Form 1-A with
respect to the age of the financial statements and the periods to be presented. In Tier 2 offerings,
the form and contents of financial statements for other entities follow the requirements of Article 8
of Regulation S-X.

382

See Part F/S of proposed Form 1-A (referencing Article 2 of Regulation S-X, 17 CFR 210.2-01 et
seq.).

383

The rules for ongoing reporting are discussed in Section II.E. below.

384

See Form 1-A, Part F/S (2014).

109

are filed more than 90 days after the end of the issuer’s most recently completed fiscal
year, the financial statements must include that fiscal year. 385
We proposed to extend the permissible age of financial statements in Form 1-A to
nine months, in order to permit the provision of financial statements that are updated on a
timetable consistent with our proposed requirement for semiannual interim reporting. 386
We also proposed to add a new limitation on the age of financial statements at
qualification, under which an offering statement could not be qualified if the date of the
balance sheet included under Part F/S were more than nine months before the date of
qualification. 387 For filings made more than three months after the end of the issuer’s
most recent fiscal year, the balance sheet would be required to be dated as of the end of
the most recent fiscal year. 388 For filings made more than nine months after the end of
the issuer’s most recent fiscal year, the balance sheet would be required to be dated no
earlier than as of six months after the end of the most recent fiscal year. 389 If interim
financial statements are required, they would be required to cover a period of at least six
months. 390 In the Proposing Release, we noted that requiring issuers to file interim
financial statements no older than nine months and covering a minimum of six months

385

Id.

386

This age of financial statements requirement is also consistent with the treatment of foreign private
issuers in the context of registered offerings. See Division of Corporation Finance’s Financial
Reporting Manual, at 6620, available at:
http://www.sec.gov/divisions/corpfin/cffinancialreportingmanual.pdf#topic6.

387

Form 1-A currently does not expressly limit the age of financial statements at qualification. In
practice, however, Commission staff requires issuers to update financial statements before
qualification to the extent such financial statements no longer satisfy Form 1-A’s requirements for
the age of financial statements at the time of filing.

388

See paragraph (a)(3)(i) to Part F/S of proposed Form 1-A.

389

Id.

390

See paragraph (a)(3)(iv) to Part F/S of proposed Form 1-A.

110

would have the beneficial effect of eliminating what could otherwise be a requirement for
certain issuers to provide quarterly interim financial statements during the qualification
process and would be consistent with the timing of our proposed ongoing reporting
requirements. 391 We proposed to generally maintain the timing requirement of existing
Form 1-A concerning the date after which an issuer must provide financial statements
dated as of the most recently completed fiscal year, but to change the interval from
90 calendar days to three months. 392 While not proposed, we additionally solicited
comment on whether Tier 2 issuers should be required to submit financial statements in
interactive data format using the eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL).
(b)

Comments on Proposed Rules

We received numerous detailed suggestions from commenters on our proposed
financial statement requirements for Part F/S of Form 1-A. Commenters were generally
supportive of the proposed rules, but also raised concerns as to the effect some of the
proposed requirements for audits in Tier 2 offerings could have on issuers and
recommended clarifying revisions that would help to make the financial statements more
consistent in some respects with those required in registered offerings, while also
eliminating potentially confusing or inconsistent terminology.
Commenters generally supported the proposed increase to two years of balance
sheets. 393 One commenter noted that the Commission’s proposal to require two years of
balance sheets was appropriate, particularly in light of the existing requirement to provide

391

See discussion in Section II.E.1. below.

392

See paragraph (a)(3)(i) to Part F/S of proposed Form 1-A.

393

See, e.g., CFA Institute Letter; ABA BLS Letter.

111

statements of income, cash flows and stockholders’ equity for two years. 394 Another
commenter, however, argued against two years of balance sheets for Tier 1 issuers
instead of the one year required under existing Regulation A. 395
While commenters generally approved of the proposed rules not requiring audits
for Tier 1 issuers, 396 many recommended making changes to the proposed auditing
requirements for the financial statements included in an offering. 397 One commenter
recommended not requiring audited financial statements until after the first year of
operations as a “public startup company” or not at all for companies that are pre-revenue
or that have paid-in capital, assets and revenues below a specified threshold. 398 Many
commenters recommended allowing Tier 1 issuers to designate financial statements as
“audited” if the auditor was only independent in accordance with the rules of the AICPA
and not in accordance with the Commission’s auditor independence rules. 399 These
commenters noted that the proposed requirements for financial statements only to qualify
as “audited” if the auditor complies with the independence standards of Article 2 of
Regulation S-X, as opposed to the independence standards of the AICPA, may increase
costs to smaller issuers due to the increased likelihood that an issuer would need to have

394

ABA BLS Letter (noting that in light of the existing requirements, the proposed change did not
seem unduly burdensome).

395

Campbell Letter.

396

See, e.g., CFA Institute Letter; ABA BLS Letter; Campbell Letter.

397

ABA BLS Letter; BDO Letter; Canaccord Letter; CAQ Letter; CFA Letter; CFIRA Letter 2;
Deloitte Letter; E&Y Letter; Letter from KPMG LLP, March 24, 2014 (“KPMG Letter”); Letter
from McGladrey LLP (“McGladrey Letter”); MoFo Letter; WOC Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co
Letter.

398

Letter from Jason Coombs, Co-Founder and CEO, Public Startup Company, Inc., March 25, 2014
(“Public Startup Co. Letter 3”) (suggesting three tiers, where at least the first two would not
require audited financial statements); Public Startup Co. Letter 6.

399

BDO Letter; CAQ Letter; Deloitte Letter; E&Y Letter; KPMG Letter; McGladrey Letter.

112

their financial statements audited a second time by an auditor who was independent under
Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X. One commenter requested clarification of whether a Tier 1
issuer could voluntarily provide an audit opinion on its financial statements that was
obtained for other purposes if the auditor complied with U.S. GAAS, including AICPA
independence standards, but not with the Commission’s independence rules. 400 Several
commenters recommended requiring Tier 1 issuers that provide unaudited financial
statements to label them as unaudited. 401
Many commenters recommended allowing financial statements in Tier 2 offerings
to be audited in accordance with either PCAOB standards or U.S. GAAS. 402 One
commenter limited its recommendation to smaller Tier 2 issuers and conditioned this
recommendation on the Commission not altering the requirement that auditors be
independent under Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X. 403 This commenter also recommended
conditioning the ability to follow U.S. GAAS under Tier 2 on the issuer’s showing of
undue cost and impracticability in the offering statement and also limiting this relief to
the issuer’s initial Tier 2 offering. One commenter noted that because Regulation A
issuers are not “issuers” (as defined in Section 2(a)(7) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002), 404 when the audit is performed in accordance with PCAOB standards, AICPA
rules would require the audit to be compliant with both AICPA and PCAOB standards

400

CAQ Letter.

401

CAQ Letter (recommending that such issuers disclose that the financial statements have not been
subject to an audit or review by an independent accountant); E&Y Letter; KPMG Letter.

402

ABA BLS Letter; BDO Letter; Canaccord Letter; Deloitte Letter; E&Y Letter; KPMG Letter;
McGladrey Letter; MoFo Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co Letter.

403

ABA BLS Letter.

404

15 U.S.C. 7201(a) et seq.

113

and the auditor’s report would have to reference both AICPA and PCAOB standards.
This commenter also noted, however, that given recent changes to the auditor’s report
under AICPA standards, it may not be possible for the auditor to be in compliance with
both AICPA and PCAOB standards from a reporting perspective. 405
Additionally, two commenters expressed concern about potential confusion that
could result from requiring PCAOB standards in Tier 2 offerings, but not requiring
PCAOB registration. 406 One of these commenters recommended avoiding any potential
confusion by allowing for audits under U.S. GAAS in Tier 2 offerings. 407 Another
commenter stated that the issue could be resolved by requiring either the use of PCAOBregistered auditors for Tier 2 offerings or appropriate disclosure of the auditor’s PCAOB
registration status, noting that the disclosure option would result in lower costs to the
issuer and fewer instances in which an issuer would need to have its financial statements
audited a second time under PCAOB standards. 408
One commenter asked the Commission to clarify issues relating to transition
reporting for Tier 1 issuers that have previously conducted an offering pursuant to the
exemption under Section 4(a)(6) and were required to file reviewed annual financial
statements. 409 Another commenter asked the Commission to clarify the application of the
audit requirements applicable to Tier 1 issuers that have audited financial statements
prepared for other purposes, in light of potentially contradictory references in proposed

405

KPMG Letter.

406

BDO Letter; Deloitte Letter.

407

Deloitte Letter.

408

BDO Letter.

409

E&Y Letter.

114

Form 1-A to the “standards of the PCAOB” and the PCAOB auditing standards. 410 One
commenter recommended not requiring audited financials under either Tier 1 or Tier 2
for “small companies with limited revenues and assets.” 411 Another commenter raised
concerns about allowing Tier 1 issuers to include financial statements audited using U.S.
GAAS and not requiring that all audits be conducted by PCAOB–registered auditors. 412
Many commenters recommended making other changes to the financial statement
requirements not directly related to audit requirements. 413 A number of commenters
suggested allowing companies to use alternatives under U.S. GAAP for non-public
business entities when preparing their financial statements, since Regulation A issuers
would otherwise be considered “public business entities” under FASB standards. 414
These commenters were concerned about the need for issuers to have their financial
statements prepared and audited a second time under U.S. GAAP applicable to public
business entities, as discussed in greater detail below. One commenter did not address
this issue with respect to Tier 1, but recommended allowing the smallest Tier 2 issuers to
follow alternatives under U.S. GAAP applicable to non-public business entities. 415 One
commenter recommended allowing companies to include financial statements prepared in
accordance with alternatives under U.S. GAAP for non-public business entities in
410

CAQ Letter.

411

WOC Letter.

412

CFA Letter.

413

ABA BLS Letter; BDO Letter; Letter from Frederick D. Lipman, Blank Rome LLP, March 17,
2014 (“Blank Rome Letter”); Canaccord Letter; CAQ Letter; CFIRA Letter 1; Deloitte Letter;
E&Y Letter; KPMG Letter; Karr Tuttle Letter; McGladrey Letter; MoFo Letter; PwC Letter;
WR Hambrecht + Co Letter.

414

ABA BLS Letter; Canaccord Letter; CAQ Letter; CFIRA Letter 1; Deloitte Letter; E&Y Letter;
KPMG Letter; McGladrey Letter; MoFo Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co Letter.

415

ABA BLS Letter.

115

offerings up to a specified minimum, suggesting $10 million or $20 million. 416 Another
commenter recommended explicitly stating that Regulation A issuers are subject to
“public business entity” requirements if the final rules do not provide for the use of, or a
non-costly transition from, financial statements based on alternatives under U.S. GAAP
for non-public business entities. 417 One commenter limited its recommendation with
respect to the applicability of alternatives under U.S. GAAP for non-public business
entities to Tier 1 issuers and to entities whose financial statements are required to be
included in offering statements relying on Tier 1. 418 Another commenter noted that
significant acquired businesses will qualify as “public business entities” because their
financial statements are filed with the Commission. 419 As a result, financial statements of
those businesses would also need to be revised, and an issuer would potentially need to
have their financial statements prepared and audited a second time under U.S. GAAP
applicable to public business entities.
Several commenters recommended allowing issuers under Regulation A to defer
adopting new or revised accounting standards effective for public companies if nonpublic business entities have a delayed effective date (similar to accommodations for
emerging growth companies under Section 102(b) of the JOBS Act). 420 Two
commenters recommended either clarifying how the disclosure requirements for pro
forma financial information in Part F/S for Tier 1 issuers differ from Rule 8-05 of

416

McGladrey Letter.

417

KPMG Letter.

418

E&Y Letter.

419

Deloitte Letter.

420

CAQ Letter; Deloitte Letter; E&Y Letter; KPMG Letter.

116

Regulation S-X or requiring such Tier 1 issuers to follow Rule 8-05. 421 One commenter
recommended allowing companies formed within nine months of the filing date of the
offering statement to provide only a discussion of their financial condition and operations
since inception, rather than financial statements as of a date within nine months of the
date of filing. 422 This commenter further recommended aligning the financial statement
updating requirements with the timing of periodic reports (e.g., allowing for 120 days
before year end financial statements are required in the offering statement, rather than 90
days). 423 This commenter also recommended that the Commission consider additional
scaling for Regulation A offerings in the requirements concerning the financial
statements of: acquired or to-be-acquired businesses; guarantors of issuers of guaranteed
securities; and, affiliates that collateralize an issuance. 424
Another commenter recommended that Tier 2 issuers not be subject to
Rule 8-04(b)(3) of Regulation S-X when the to-be-acquired business has significant loss
operations. 425 This commenter recommended at least not applying Rule 8-04(b)(3) in
situations where companies intend to eliminate the losses by dropping certain products or
service lines of business that produced the loss. Another commenter recommended
clarifying whether financial statements should also be dated within nine months of the
qualification date of the offering statement. 426

421

CAQ Letter; PwC Letter.

422

E&Y Letter.

423

Id.

424

Id.

425

Blank Rome Letter.

426

E&Y Letter (referring to paragraphs (a)(3)(i) and (b)(2) of Part F/S of proposed Form 1-A).

117

One commenter made a number of specific recommendations that we clarify
language in particular paragraphs of the proposed requirements for financial statements in
Part F/S of Form 1-A. 427 A different commenter indicated that proposed Form 1-A
seemed to require issuers to disclose “selected financial information” and objected to any
such requirement as being more onerous than the requirements otherwise applicable to
smaller reporting companies. 428
Several commenters specifically supported allowing Canadian issuers to prepare
their financial statements in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB, as proposed. 429
More generally, many commenters recommended allowing foreign issuers to use IFRS as
issued by the IASB to prepare their financial statements. 430 One commenter
recommended allowing U.S. companies to use IFRS when conducting offerings in
Canada. 431 This comment was made within the context of providing U.S. companies the
ability to list on a Canadian exchange without being subject to resale restrictions imposed
by Regulation S. Three commenters specifically opposed adding an XBRL
requirement. 432
(c)

Final Rules for Financial Statements

As discussed more fully below, we are adopting requirements for financial
statements in Part F/S of Form 1-A with changes from the proposed rules that are
427

E&Y Letter, Appendix B.

428

CAQ Letter. See Section II.C.3.a. above.

429

ABA BLS Letter; Canaccord Letter; MoFo Letter; NASAA Letter 2; PwC Letter.

430

ABA BLS Letter (although supporting excluding non-Canadian foreign companies);
Andreessen/Cowen Letter; Canaccord Letter (stating generally that the Commission should clarify
that companies may use IFRS); CAQ Letter; Deloitte Letter; PwC Letter.

431

Karr Tuttle Letter.

432

BIO Letter; MoFo Letter; U.S. Chamber of Commerce Letter.

118

designed to simplify and lower the cost of compliance for issuers, while maintaining
important investor protections. As proposed, the final rules require Tier 1 and Tier 2
issuers to file balance sheets and other required financial statements as of the two most
recently completed fiscal year ends (or for such shorter time that they have been in
existence). With the exception of the requirement to file two years of balance sheets, the
final rules largely maintain the existing financial statement requirements of current
Part F/S for Tier 1 offerings, while requiring Tier 2 issuers to file audited financial
statements in Part F/S.
Financial statements for U.S.-domiciled issuers will be required to be prepared in
accordance with U.S. GAAP, as is currently the case. Canadian issuers, however, may
prepare financial statements in accordance with either U.S. GAAP or International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting
Standards Board (IASB). 433
Additionally, consistent with the suggestions of commenters and in order to be
consistent with the treatment of emerging growth companies under Section 102(b)(1) of
the JOBS Act, the final rules permit issuers, where applicable, to delay the
implementation of new accounting standards to the extent such standards provide for
delayed implementation by non-public business entities. 434 In this regard, with respect to
the delayed implementation of new or revised financial accounting standards, if the issuer

433

If the financial statements comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB, such compliance must be
unreservedly and explicitly stated in the notes to the financial statements and the auditor’s report
must include an opinion on whether the financial statements comply with IFRS as issued by the
IASB. See General Rule (a)(2) to Part F/S of Form 1-A.

434

CAQ Letter; Deloitte Letter; E&Y Letter; KPMG Letter. See also Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the
Securities Act, 15 U.S.C. 77g(a)(2)(B), and Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78m(a).

119

chooses to take advantage of the extended transition period to the same extent that a
“non-issuer” company is permitted to, the issuer:
•

Must disclose such choice at the time the issuer files the offering statement;
and

•

May not take advantage of the extended transition period with respect to some
standards and not others, but must apply the same choice to all standards. 435

However, issuers electing not to use this accommodation must forgo this accommodation
for all financial accounting standards and may not elect to rely on this accommodation in
any future filings. 436
As proposed, the final rules require issuers conducting Tier 1 offerings to follow
the requirements for the form and content of their financial statements set out in Part F/S,
rather than following the requirements in Regulation S-X. 437 However, consistent with a
comment received, 438 in certain less common circumstances, such as for an acquired
business or subsidiary guarantors, Part F/S directs issuers conducting Tier 1 offerings to
certain portions of Regulation S-X that provide guidance on when financial statements
for entities other than the issuer are required. 439 In Tier 1 offerings the form and content

435

See paragraph (a)(3) of Part F/S of Form 1-A.

436

Id.

437

See paragraph (b) of Part F/S of Form 1-A.

438

E&Y Letter.

439

We are updating the requirements for financial statements of businesses acquired or to be acquired
in Part F/S to refer to the requirements of Rule 8-04 of Regulation S-X. We are also providing
specific references to the relevant provisions of Regulation S-X regarding the requirements for
financial statements of guarantors and the issuers of guaranteed securities (Rule 3-10 of
Regulation S-X), financial statements of affiliates whose securities collateralize an issuance of
securities (Rule 3-16 of Regulation S-X), financial statements provided in connection with oil and
gas producing activities (Rule 4-10 of Regulation S-X), pro forma financial information
(Rule 8-05 of Regulation S-X) and income statements for real estate operations acquired or to be
acquired (Rule 8-06 of Regulation S-X). The financial statements provided in these circumstances

120

of the financial statements for those other entities also follow the requirements set out in
Part F/S. We believe this guidance will assist issuers with compliance with the general
requirements for financial statement disclosure in these less common circumstances and
is an appropriate change in the final rules. In an effort to reduce confusion, as suggested
by commenters, 440 the final rules also direct issuers to Rule 8-05 of Regulation S-X for
pro forma information disclosure requirements. Additionally, the final rules require
compliance with Rule 8-06 of Regulation S-X for real estate operations acquired because
real estate companies and REITs are eligible issuers.
The final rules require Tier 2 issuers to follow the financial statement
requirements of Article 8 of Regulation S-X, as if the issuer were a smaller reporting
company, unless otherwise noted in Part F/S. 441 This requirement also includes any
financial information required for Tier 1 offerings, as discussed above, such as acquired
businesses required by Rule 8-04 and 8-05 of Regulation S-X. 442
As adopted, financial statements in a Tier 1 offering are not required to be
audited. Consistent with the suggestions of commenters, 443 and in order to avoid
potential confusion as to the presentation of financial statements, issuers in Tier 1
offerings that do not provide audited financial statements must label their financial
statements as unaudited. However, the final rules clarify that, if an issuer conducting a
would only be required to be audited to the extent the issuer had already obtained an audit of those
financial statements for other purposes.
440

CAQ Letter; PwC Letter.

441

See paragraph (c) of Part F/S of Form 1-A.

442

Tier 2 issuers would, however, follow paragraphs (c)(1) of Part F/S of Form 1-A with respect to
the age of the financial statements and the periods to be presented. In Tier 2 offerings, the form
and content of financial statements for other entities follow the requirement of Article 8 of
Regulation S-X.

443

CAQ Letter; E&Y Letter; KPMG Letter.

121

Tier 1 offering has already obtained an audit of its financial statements for other
purposes, and that audit was performed in accordance with U.S. GAAS or the standards
of the PCAOB, and the auditor followed the independence standards of either Rule 2-01
of Regulation S-X or the independence standards of the AICPA, then those audited
financial statements must be filed. 444 We believe the requirement to file already available
audited financial statements will benefit investors. The auditor need not be registered
with the PCAOB. While audited financial statements are not generally required to be
filed for Tier 1 offerings, allowing auditors to follow the independence standards of the
AICPA or Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X is consistent with the suggestions of most
commenters and will provide smaller issuers that seek to submit “audited” financial
statements in Tier 1 offerings with greater flexibility in satisfying the financial statement
requirements. 445 We agree that, when available, financial statements that satisfy the
financial statement requirements and that have been audited by an auditor that meets the
independence standards of the AICPA should be deemed “audited” for purposes of Tier 1
offerings.
Issuers conducting Tier 2 offerings are, by contrast, required to have their
financial statements audited. The auditor of financial statements being filed as part of a
Tier 2 offering must be independent under Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X and must comply
with the other requirements of Article 2 of Regulation S-X, but need not be
PCAOB-registered. 446 In a change from the proposed rules, and consistent with the

444

See CAQ Letter (requesting clarification on this issue).

445

While not a requirement, issuers in Tier 1 offerings may have independent business reasons why
they seek to provide, or investors that may otherwise demand, audited financial statements.

446

See paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of Part F/S of Form 1-A.

122

suggestions of commenters, 447 the final rules require issuers conducting Tier 2 offerings
to provide financial statements that are audited in accordance with either U.S. GAAS or
the standards issued by the PCAOB.
As noted above, one commenter indicated that, because Regulation A issuers are
not “issuers,” as defined by Section 2(a)(7) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, AICPA
rules would require the audit to be compliant with U.S. GAAS even if the auditor has
conducted the audit in accordance with PCAOB standards. Staff of the Commission
consulted with the AICPA on this issue and has been advised that an audit performed by
its members of an issuer conducting an offering pursuant to Regulation A would be
required to comply with U.S. GAAS in accordance with the AICPA’s Code of
Professional Conduct. 448 As a result, an auditor for a Regulation A issuer who is
conducting its audit in accordance with PCAOB standards would also be required to
comply with U.S. GAAS, and the auditor would need to comply with the reporting
requirements of both the AICPA standards and the PCAOB standards. As further noted
by this commenter, 449 there may be some question as to whether an auditor can currently
comply with both sets of standards when issuing its auditor’s report. Commission staff
also consulted with the AICPA on this issue and has been informed that the AICPA will
consider taking action to address this potential conflict so that an auditor’s report would
be able to comply with both sets of auditing standards.

447

ABA BLS Letter; BDO Letter; Canaccord Letter; Deloitte Letter; E&Y Letter; KPMG Letter;
McGladrey Letter; MoFo Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co Letter.

448

The AICPA Code of Professional Conduct is available at:
http://pub.aicpa.org/codeofconduct/ethicsresources/et-cod.pdf.

449

See KPMG Letter.

123

Thus, requiring issuers in Tier 2 offerings to have their financial statements
audited in accordance with PCAOB standards would have the effect of requiring issuers
to comply with two sets of auditing standards and potentially result in audits for Tier 2
issuers being subject to additional incremental costs than would be required for registered
offerings (which are only subject to PCAOB auditing standards). To avoid such a result,
the final rules permit Tier 2 issuers the option of following U.S. GAAS or the standards
of the PCAOB. 450
We believe that providing issuers with this option could help reduce the cost of
required audits in Tier 2 offerings while maintaining appropriate safeguards for investors.
We believe audits conducted in accordance with U.S. GAAS provide sufficient protection
for investors in Regulation A offerings, especially in light of the requirement that auditors
for Tier 2 offerings must be independent under Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X. Moreover,
we believe that the flexibility adopted in the final rules is more appropriately tailored for
the different types of issuers likely to conduct Tier 2 offerings because it will not only
eliminate the potential that existed under the proposed rules that some issuers would need
to have their financial statements audited a second time under PCAOB standards, but also
continue to permit issuers, such as those that may seek concurrent registration of a class
of securities under the Exchange Act, to comply with the PCAOB standards if they so
choose. 451
An issuer that includes financial statements audited in accordance with U.S.
GAAS and PCAOB standards will likely incur additional incremental costs compared
450

As discussed above, however, compliance with PCAOB standards could also require compliance
with U.S. GAAS.

451

See, e.g., Section II.E.3.c (Exchange Act Registration of Regulation A Securities) below.

124

with an issuer that includes financial statements audited only in accordance with U.S.
GAAS. However, we assume that an issuer would only elect to comply with both sets of
auditing standards because it has concluded that the benefit of doing so (for example, to
facilitate Exchange Act registration) justify these additional incremental costs.
Commission staff understands that many firms that conduct audits using PCAOB
standards have developed their methodology in a manner that would comply with both
sets of standards, which could help contain the costs related to complying with both U.S.
GAAS and PCAOB auditing standards.
An issuer conducting a Regulation A offering that seeks to concurrently register
its securities under the Exchange Act would be required to file audited financial
statements that are prepared in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB by an
auditor that is PCAOB-registered. 452 The final rules therefore provide Regulation A
issuers with the option to provide financial statements in Part F/S of Form 1-A that
comply with correlating requirements under the Exchange Act. 453
The Form 1-A financial statement requirements are being further updated to be
consistent with the timetable for ongoing reporting. 454 The final rules extend the
permissible age of financial statements in Form 1-A to nine months, in order to permit the
provision of financial statements that are updated on a timetable consistent with our

452

See Section 12 of the Exchange Act, Section 102 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and Article 2
of Regulation S-X.

453

If the final rules did not permit issuers to prepare audited financial statements in accordance with
the standards of the PCAOB, Regulation A issuers that rely on the amendments to Form 8-A
adopted today in order to register a class of securities pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act
would have to have their financial statements audited a second time under PCAOB standards by a
PCAOB registered auditor.

454

Our final rules for ongoing reporting are discussed in Section II.E.1. below.

125

requirement for semiannual interim reporting. 455 As proposed, the final rules add a new
limitation on the age of financial statements at qualification, under which an offering
statement cannot be qualified if the date of the most recent balance sheet included under
Part F/S is more than nine months before the date of qualification. 456 For filings made
more than three months but no more than nine months after the end of the issuer’s most
recently completed fiscal year end, issuers are required to include a balance sheet as of
the two most recently completed fiscal year ends. 457 For filings made more than nine
months after the end of the issuer’s most recently completed fiscal year end, the balance
sheet is required to be dated as of the two most recently completed fiscal year ends and
an interim balance sheet must be included as of a date no earlier than six months after the
end of the most recently completed fiscal year. 458 If interim financial statements are
required, they are required to cover a period of at least six months. 459 Requiring issuers
to file interim financial statements no older than nine months and covering a minimum of
six months has the beneficial effect of eliminating what would otherwise be a
requirement for certain issuers to provide quarterly interim financial statements during
the qualification process and is consistent with the timing of the ongoing reporting
requirements adopted today. 460 We are generally maintaining the requirement of existing
Form 1-A concerning the date after which an issuer must provide financial statements

455

See paragraph(s) (b)(3)-(4) of Part F/S of Form 1-A for Tier 1 issuers, which also apply to Tier 2
issuers by virtue of paragraph (c)(1) of Part F/S of Form 1-A.

456

Id.

457

See paragraph (b)(3)(A) of Part F/S of Form 1-A.

458

See paragraph (b)(3)(B) of Part F/S of Form 1-A.

459

See paragraph (b)(4) of Part F/S of Form 1-A.

460

See, e.g., discussion in Section II.E.1. below.

126

dated as of the most recently completed fiscal year, but are changing the interval from 90
calendar days to three months, which we believe will simplify compliance by allowing
issuers to follow full months. In order to further simplify compliance with the final rules,
we also revised Part F/S of Form 1-A to streamline the application of, and simplify the
language in, the rules without substantively changing the required content.
Although we solicited comment on whether issuers conducting Tier 2 offerings
should be required to provide their financial statements to the Commission and on their
corporate websites in interactive data format using XBRL, we are not adopting any such
requirement in the final rules. 461 Commenters that addressed this issue opposed requiring
the use of XBRL in Regulation A filings. 462 We agree and do not believe that requiring
the use of XBRL in Regulation A filings would be an appropriately tailored requirement
for smaller issuers at this time. 463
On December 23, 2013, after we proposed rules for Regulation A, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and Private Company Council (PCC) issued a
guide for evaluating financial accounting and reporting for non-public business
entities. 464 The PCC was created in 2012 by the FASB and the Financial Accounting
Foundation (FAF) to improve the standard-setting process, and provide for accounting

461

Data becomes interactive when it is labeled or “tagged” using a computer markup language such
as XBRL that software can process for analysis. For a discussion of current financial statement
interactive data requirements, see Rel. No. 33-9002 (Jan. 30, 2009) [74 FR 6776].

462

BIO Letter; MoFo Letter; US Chamber of Commerce Letter.

463

We recognize, however, that future technological developments may lessen the burden to smaller
issuers associated currently with XBRL, at which time we may revisit this initial determination.

464

The Private Company Decision-Making Framework: A Guide for Evaluating Financial
Accounting and Reporting for Private Companies (the “PCC Guide”), available at:
http://www.fasb.org/cs/ContentServer?c=Document_C&pagename=FASB%2FDocument_C%2F
DocumentPage&cid=1176163703583.

127

and reporting alternatives, for non-public business entities under U.S. GAAP. 465 As the
standards for non-public business entities are new, there are currently very few
distinctions between U.S. GAAP for public and non-public business entities. Over time,
however, more distinctions between non-public business entity and public company
accounting standards could develop.
Issuers that offer securities pursuant to Regulation A will be considered “public
business entities” as defined by the FASB and, therefore, ineligible to rely on any
alternative accounting or reporting standards for non-public business entities. 466 Even
though issuers of securities in a Regulation A offering fit within the definition of “public
business entity,” the Commission retains the authority to determine whether or not such
issuers would be permitted to rely on the developing non-public business entity
standards. 467
The distinction between public and non-public business entity standards was not
directly contemplated in the Proposing Release, as the FASB/PCC Guide was issued after
the Regulation A proposal was approved by the Commission.468 Commenters, however,
generally expressed concern about the costs associated with requiring non-public
business entities (e.g., non-Exchange Act reporting companies) to follow public company

465

For a brief history behind the creation of the PCC, see:
http://www.fasb.org/cs/ContentServer?c=Page&pagename=FASB%2FPage%2FSectionPage&cid
=1351027243391.

466

See numbered paragraph 12 of the PCC Guide, p. 3.

467

Id.

468

The Commission approved the proposed rules on December 18, 2013, while the PCC Guide was
issued on December 23, 2013.

128

U.S. GAAP accounting standards, particularly on a going forward basis. 469 Commenters
also expressed concern about the potential that an issuer would need to have its financial
statements prepared and audited a second time, which would likely increase the costs
associated with any previously obtained financial statements by a non-public business
entity that would not comply with the financial statement requirements of an exemption
that requires such issuer to follow the standards applicable to public business entities. 470
The final rules do not allow Regulation A issuers to use the alternatives available
to non-public business entities under U.S. GAAP in the preparation of their financial
statements. One of the significant factors considered by the FASB in developing its
definition of “public business entity” was the number of primary users of the financial
statements and their access to management. 471 As the FASB noted, “users of private
company financial statements have continuous access to management and the ability to
obtain financial information throughout the year.” 472 As the number of investors
increases and the ability to influence management decreases, it is important that all
investors receive or have timely access to comprehensive financial information. As a
result, the Commission believes that investor protection is enhanced by Regulation A
issuers providing financial statements prepared in the same manner as other entities
meeting the FASB’s definition of “public business entity.”

469

ABA BLS Letter; Canaccord Letter; CAQ Letter; CFIRA Letter 1; Deloitte Letter; E&Y Letter;
KPMG Letter; McGladrey Letter; MoFo Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co Letter.

470

Id.

471

PCC Guide, p. 6.

472

Id.

129

c.

Part III (Exhibits)

We proposed to maintain the existing exhibit requirements in Part III of
Form 1-A. Additionally, we proposed to continue to permit issuers to incorporate by
reference certain information in documents filed under Regulation A that is already
available on EDGAR, but also require issuers to describe the information incorporated by
reference and include a hyperlink to such exhibit on EDGAR. 473 As proposed, issuers
also would have to be subject to the ongoing reporting obligations for Tier 2 offerings in
order to avail themselves of this accommodation.
We did not receive any comments on the proposed exhibit requirements for
Part III of Form 1-A, and are adopting the proposed exhibit requirements substantially as
proposed. As adopted, issuers will be required to file the following exhibits with the
offering statement: underwriting agreement; charter and by-laws; instrument defining the
rights of securityholders; subscription agreement; voting trust agreement; material
contracts; plan of acquisition, reorganization, arrangement, liquidation, or succession;
escrow agreements; consents; opinion regarding legality; “testing the waters” materials;
appointment of agent for service of process; and any additional exhibits the issuer may
wish to file. 474 In a change from the proposed requirements, however, the final rules no
longer require issuers to file schedules (or similar attachments) to material contracts in all
instances. As adopted, issuers are permitted to exclude schedules (or similar
attachments) to material contracts if not material to an investment decision or if the

473

See General Instruction III to proposed Form 1-A and discussion in Section II.C.3.b(1). above
regarding incorporation by reference in Part II of Form 1-A. The hyperlink must be active at the
time of filing, but need not remain active after filing.

474

See Part III (Exhibits) of Form 1-A.

130

material information contained in such schedules is otherwise disclosed in the agreement
or the offering statement. Any material contract filed in response to Item 17, however,
must contain a list briefly identifying the contents of all omitted schedules, together with
an agreement to furnish supplementally a copy of any omitted schedule to the
Commission upon request.
We are adopting final rules that permit issuers to incorporate by reference certain
information that is already available on EDGAR. In a change from the proposed rules,
incorporation by reference will not be limited to documents previously filed pursuant to
Regulation A and will not be limited to issuers subject to Tier 2 ongoing reporting
obligations. We believe that this change will continue to facilitate the provision of
required information to investors, while taking a consistent approach to information
previously provided to the Commission and publicly available on EDGAR. Issuers that
seek to incorporate by reference are further required to describe the information
incorporated by reference and include a hyperlink to such exhibit on EDGAR. 475 As
proposed, such issuers must be subject to the ongoing reporting obligations for Tier 2
offerings. Additionally, as proposed, to the extent post-qualification amendments to
offering statements must include audited financial statements, the final rules require the
consent of the certifying accountant to the use of such accountant’s report in connection
with amended financial statements to be included as an exhibit. 476 The final rule,

475

See General Instruction III to Form 1-A. The hyperlink must be active at the time of filing, but
need not remain active after filing.

476

This is consistent with current practice under Regulation A, but will be made an express
requirement under the final rules. See Rule 252(f)(1)(ii).

131

however, clarifies that the requirement to file the consent of the certifying accountant
only applies where the financial statements required to be filed are amended. 477
d.

Signature Requirements

Similar to the requirement for issuers in registered offerings, we proposed to
require issuers to manually sign a copy of the offering statement before or at the time of
filing and retain it for a period of five years. 478 Issuers would be required to produce the
manually signed copy to the Commission, upon request. 479 Additionally, we proposed to
eliminate the requirement that, where an issuer filing a Form 1-A is a Canadian issuer, its
authorized representative in the United States is required to sign the offering statement. 480
Also, we proposed to maintain the requirement that Canadian issuers file a Form F-X 481
to provide an express consent to service of process in connection with offerings qualified
under Form 1-A. This treatment is similar to requirements for Canadian companies
making filings under the multijurisdictional disclosure system. 482
We did not receive any comments on this aspect of the proposal, and are adopting
these provisions, as proposed, in the final rules. 483

477

See id.

478

See Instructions 2 and 3 to Signatures in proposed Form 1-A; cf. Rule 402(e), 17 CFR 230.402(e).

479

Id.

480

See 17 CFR 230.252(f) (2014) and Instruction 1 to Signatures of Form 1-A (2014).

481

17 CFR 239.42.

482

See Rel. No. 33-6902 (June 21, 1991) [56 FR 30036] (adopting the multijurisdictional disclosure
system).

483

See Instructions to Signatures, Form 1-A.

132

4.

Continuous or Delayed Offerings and Offering Circular Supplements
a.

Proposed Rules

Rule 251(d)(3) currently allows for continuous or delayed offerings under
Regulation A if permitted by Rule 415. 484 By reference to the undertakings of
Item 512(a) of Regulation S-K, 485 Rule 415 does not necessarily require every change in
the information contained in a prospectus to a registration statement in a continuous
offering to be reflected in a post-effective amendment. 486 On the other hand, currently
Regulation A requires every revised or updated offering circular in a continuous offering
to be filed as an amendment to the offering statement to which it relates and to be
qualified in a process similar to the Commission staff review, comment and qualification
process for initial offering statements. 487 The requalification process can be costly and
time consuming for smaller issuers conducting continuous offerings of securities pursuant
to Regulation A. We proposed to clarify in the rules for Regulation A the scope of
permissible continuous or delayed offerings and the related concept of offering circular
supplements.

484

17 CFR 230.415. Certain shelf offerings, however, are only permissible in offerings on Form S-3,
which Regulation A issuers are ineligible to use. See, e.g., Rule 415(a)(1)(x).

485

17 CFR 230.415(a)(3).

486

See 17 CFR 229.512(a)(1) (requiring issuers to file a post-effective amendment for purposes of an
update under Section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act, to reflect any facts or events arising after
effectiveness that, individually or in the aggregate, represent a fundamental change in the
information set forth in the registration statement, or to include, subject to certain exceptions, any
material information with respect to the plan of distribution not previously disclosed (or material
changes to information previously disclosed) in the registration statement).

487

See 17 CFR 230.253(e) (2014); 17 CFR 230.252(h)(1) (2014).

133

Rule 415 attempts to promote efficiency and cost savings in the securities markets
by allowing for the registration of certain traditional and other shelf offerings. 488 Prior to
the adoption of final rules today, Rule 251(d)(3) of Regulation A allowed for continuous
or delayed offerings under Regulation A if permitted by Rule 415. 489 When Rule 415
was adopted, the Commission recognized that certain traditional shelf offerings have
been allowed by administrative practice for many years despite the absence of such a
rule. 490 Since Rule 415 only addresses registered offerings, however, the precise scope of
continuous or delayed offerings under Regulation A has been unclear.
The proposed rules would clarify the scope of permissible continuous or delayed
offerings under Regulation A and the related concept of offering circular supplements,
and otherwise continue to allow for certain traditional shelf offerings to promote
flexibility, efficiency, and to reduce unnecessary offerings costs. 491 Further, as proposed,
an issuer’s ability to sell securities in a continuous or delayed offering would be
conditioned on being current with the Tier 2 ongoing reporting requirements at the time
of sale. 492
To provide clarity regarding the application of Rule 415 concepts to Regulation A
offerings, we proposed to add a provision to Regulation A similar to Rule 415, but with

488

See Rel. No. 33-6499 [48 FR 52889] (Nov. 23, 1983) (noting the efficiency and cost savings
issuers experienced during the eighteen month trial period for a previous temporary version of the
rule).

489

17 CFR 230.415.

490

Certain “traditional shelf offerings” have been allowed since at least 1968 by the Commission’s
guides for the preparation and filing of registration statements, such as Guide 4, and related
administrative practice. See id.; see also Rel. No. 33-4936 [33 FR 18617] (Dec. 9, 1968)
(adopting Guide 4 and other Commission guides).

491

See Proposing Release, at Section II.C.4.

492

Proposed Rule 251(d)(3)(i)(F).

134

limitations that we believed would be appropriate for Regulation A. The provision would
establish time limits similar to those in Rule 415 and make conforming changes as
necessary. 493
In the Proposing Release we proposed excluding types of shelf offerings that
cannot be conducted under existing Regulation A, such as offerings requiring registration
on Form F-6, offerings requiring primary eligibility to use Forms S-3 or F-3, 494 offerings
conducted by issuers ineligible to use Regulation A, 495 as well as certain offerings that
we do not currently believe would be appropriate to include in the Regulation A
framework. Further, we proposed prohibiting all “at the market” offerings under
Regulation A. 496
Additionally, as proposed, changes in the information contained in the offering
statement would no longer necessarily trigger an obligation to amend. 497 Offering
circulars for continuous Regulation A offerings would, however, continue to be required
to be updated annually through the filing of a post-qualification amendment. These
annual post-qualification amendments would include updated financial statements and
post-qualification amendments would also be required when updating the offering
circular to reflect facts or events arising after qualification which, in the aggregate,
represent a fundamental change in the information set forth in the offering statement. 498

493

Proposed Rule 251(d)(3).

494

See also fn. 484 above.

495

Rule 415(a)(1)(xi) discusses investment companies and BDCs.

496

See proposed Rule 251(d)(3)(ii).

497

See proposed Rule 252(h)(2).

498

Id.

135

In addition to these post-qualification amendments to the offering statement that
must be qualified, we also proposed to allow issuers to use offering circular supplements
in certain situations. 499 Further, we proposed to permit issuers in continuous offerings to
qualify additional securities in reliance on Regulation A by a post-qualification
amendment. 500
We also proposed provisions similar to Rule 424 that would require issuers
omitting certain information from an offering statement at the time of qualification, in
reliance on proposed Rule 253(b), to file such information as an offering circular
supplement no later than two business days following the earlier of the date of
determination of such pricing information or the date of first use of the offering circular
after qualification. 501 Further, these proposed provisions would require offering circulars
that contain substantive changes in information previously provided in the last offering
circular (other than information omitted in reliance on proposed Rule 253(b)) to be filed
within five business days after the date such offering circular is first used after
qualification. 502 Offering circular supplements that are not filed within the required time
frames provided by the proposed rules would be required to be filed as soon as
practicable after the discovery of the failure to file. 503

499

See proposed Rule 253(g).

500

See proposed Rule 251(d)(3)(i)(F) and note to proposed Rule 253(b).

501

See proposed Rule 253(g).

502

See proposed Rule 253(g)(2).

503

See proposed Rule 253(g)(4).

136

b.

Comments on Proposed Rules

Commenters were generally supportive of the proposed modernization of
Regulation A’s offering process, in general, and the provisions for continuous or delayed
offerings, in particular. 504 Two commenters, however, recommended allowing for at the
market offerings under Regulation A. 505 Additionally, one commenter recommended
allowing for at the market offerings in non-penny stocks on established trading
markets. 506 Another commenter recommended allowing for at the market offerings in
securities that qualify for the actively-traded securities exceptions in Rules 101 and 102
of Regulation M. 507 This commenter suggested that the offering amount could be
determined by using the calculation set forth in Securities Act Rule 457(c) 508 as of a
specified date within five business days of qualification of the offering statement.
c.

Final Rules

We believe the proposed rules sufficiently update existing rules, while providing
issuers with adequate flexibility with respect to, and additional guidance on, the
permissible scope of continuous or delayed Regulation A offerings and offering circular
supplements. We are adopting these rules as proposed.
504

See, e.g., ABA BLS Letter; KVCF Letter; OTC Markets Letter; Paul Hastings Letter..

505

OTC Markets Letter; Paul Hastings Letter.

506

OTC Markets Letter. This commenter also recommended that securities offered under
Regulation A that are not penny stocks and that trade on an established public market should be
treated as having a “ready market” and thus be considered eligible for margin purposes, which the
commenter believed would increase the value of securities and their liquidity.

507

Paul Hastings Letter. Regulation M was adopted by the Commission in 1996 and is intended to
prevent potentially manipulative practices by underwriters, issuers, selling securityholders, and
other participants in a securities offering. See Rel. No. 38067 (December 20, 1996) [62 FR 520].

508

Rule 457(c) specifies that Securities Act registration fees for securities offered on the basis of
fluctuating market prices shall be calculated as follows: either the average of the high and low
prices reported in the consolidated reporting system (for last sale reported over-the-counter
securities) or the average of the bid and asked price (for other over-the-counter securities) as of a
specified date within 5 business days prior to the date of filing the offering statement.

137

The final rules add Rule 251(d)(3) to Regulation A, without changes from the
proposed rule. This provision is similar to Rule 415, but its scope is limited to
permissible Regulation A offerings. 509 In this regard, the final rules for Regulation A
will continue to allow for certain traditional shelf offerings to promote flexibility,
efficiency, and to reduce unnecessary offerings costs. 510 The final rules will condition
the ability of an issuer to sell securities in a continuous offering on being current in its
annual and semiannual report filing, if required under Rule 257(b), at the time of sale. 511
As we indicated in the Proposing Release, we believe this additional condition will not
impose incremental costs on issuers, which are in any case required to update their
offering statement and to file such ongoing reports, and will promote parity of
information in the secondary markets.
As proposed, the final rules provide for the following types of continuous or
delayed offerings:
•

securities offered or sold by or on behalf of a person other than the issuer or
its subsidiary or a person of which the issuer is a subsidiary;

•

securities offered and sold pursuant to a dividend or interest reinvestment plan
or an employee benefit plan of the issuer;

•

securities issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, warrants, or rights;

•

securities issued upon conversion of other outstanding securities;

509

Rule 251(d)(3).

510

See Rel. No. 33-6499, at IV.A. (“[T]he procedural flexibility afforded by the Rule enables a
registrant to time its offering to avail itself of the most advantageous market conditions . . .
registrants are able to obtain lower interest rates on debt and lower dividend rates on preferred
stock, thereby benefiting their existing shareholders.”).

511

This condition only applies to continuous offerings under Rule 251(d)(3)(i)(F).

138

•

securities pledged as collateral; or

•

securities that are part of an offering which commences within two calendar
days after the qualification date, will be offered on a continuous basis, may
continue to be offered for a period in excess of 30 days from the date of initial
qualification, and will be offered in an amount that, at the time the offering
statement is qualified, is reasonably expected to be offered and sold within
two years from the initial qualification date. 512

Notwithstanding the suggestions of commenters regarding at the market offerings,
we continue to believe that such offerings are not appropriate for Regulation A offerings,
particularly at the outset of the adoption of today’s amendments to the existing rules.
While it is possible that a market in Regulation A securities may develop that is capable
of supporting primary and secondary at the market offerings, rather than permit such
offerings at the outset, we believe that any determination as to whether the exemption
would be an appropriate method for such offerings should occur in the future. Further, an
offering sold at fluctuating market prices may not be appropriate within the context of an
exemption that is contingent upon not exceeding a maximum offering size.
Under the final rules, as proposed, changes in the information contained in the
offering statement will no longer necessarily trigger an obligation to amend. 513 Offering
circulars for continuous or delayed Regulation A offerings will continue to be required to
be updated, and the offering statements to which they relate requalified annually to
include updated financial statements, and otherwise as necessary to reflect facts or events

512

Id.

513

Rule 252(f)(2).

139

arising after qualification which, in the aggregate, represent a fundamental change in the
information set forth in the offering statement. 514 In addition to post-qualification
amendments to the offering statement that must be qualified, the final rules also will
allow issuers to use offering circular supplements in certain situations. 515 Further, issuers
in continuous offerings will be permitted to qualify additional securities in reliance on
Regulation A by a post-qualification amendment. 516
The final rules will, as proposed, permit offering circular supplements to be used
for final pricing information, where the offering statement is qualified on the basis of a
bona fide price range estimate. 517 Additionally, the final rules permit offering circulars to
omit information with respect to the underwriting syndicate analogous to the provisions
for registered offerings under Rule 430A. 518 However, the final rules do not allow an
issuer to omit the volume of securities (the number of equity securities or aggregate
principal amount of debt securities) to be offered. 519 The final rules also permit, as
proposed, offering circular supplements to reflect a decrease in the volume of, or to
change the price range of, the securities offered in reliance on a qualified offering
statement under Regulation A, so long as the decrease in the volume of securities offered
or change in the price range would not materially change the disclosure contained in the
514

Id.

515

Rule 253(g).

516

Rule 251(d)(3)(i)(F) and note to Rule 253(b).

517

Rule 253(b)(2). The bona fide price range estimate may not exceed $2 for offerings where the
upper end of the range is $10 or less and 20% if the upper end of the price range is over $10.

518

Rule 253(b) (also permitting the omission of underwriting discounts or commissions, discounts or
commissions to dealers, amount of proceeds, conversion rates, call prices and other items
dependent upon the offering price, delivery dates, and terms of the securities dependent upon the
offering date, so long as certain conditions are met).

519

Rule 253(b)(4).

140

offering statement at qualification. 520 Notwithstanding this provision, any decrease in the
volume of securities offered and any deviation from the low or high end of the price
range may be reflected in the offering circular supplement filed with the Commission if,
in the aggregate, the decrease in volume and/or change in price represent no more than a
20% change from the maximum aggregate offering price calculable using the information
in the qualified offering statement. 521 Under no circumstances, however, would an issuer
be able to amend its offering statement or rely on the provisions for offering circular
supplements where the maximum aggregate offering price resulting from any changes in
the price of the securities would exceed the offering amount limitation set forth in
Rule 251(a) or if the increase in aggregate offering price would result in a Tier 1 offering
becoming a Tier 2 offering. 522
We are also adopting as proposed provisions similar to Rule 424 that require
issuers omitting certain pricing and price-related information from an offering statement
at the time of qualification, in reliance on Rule 253(b), to file such information as an
offering circular supplement no later than two business days following the earlier of the
date of determination of such pricing information or the date of first use of the offering
circular after qualification. 523 These provisions require offering circulars that contain
substantive changes (other than information omitted in reliance on Rule 253(b)) in
information previously provided in the last offering circular to be filed within five

520

See note to Rule 253(b).

521

Id.

522

Id.

523

Rule 253(g)(1).

141

business days after the date such offering circular is first used after qualification. 524
Offering circular supplements that are not filed within the required time frames provided
by the rules are required to be filed as soon as practicable after the discovery of the
failure to file. 525
5.

Qualification

Under existing Regulation A, an offering statement is generally only qualified by
order of the Commission in a manner similar to a registration statement being declared
effective. 526 In such instances, the issuer includes a delaying notation on the cover of the
Form 1-A stating that the offering statement shall only be qualified by order of the
Commission.527 In order to remove a delaying notation, an issuer must file an
amendment to the offering statement indicating that the offering statement will become
qualified on the 20th calendar day after filing. 528 An offering statement that does not
include a delaying notation will be qualified without Commission action on the 20th
calendar day after filing. 529
We proposed to alter the qualification process of existing Regulation A. As
proposed, an offering statement could only be qualified by order of the Commission, and
the process associated with the delaying notation would be eliminated. A few

524

Rule 253(g)(2).

525

Rule 253(g)(4).

526

17 CFR 230.252(g)(2) (2014).

527

Id.

528

17 CFR 230.252(g)(3) (2014).

529

17 CFR 230.252(g)(1) (2014).

142

commenters generally supported the proposed elimination of qualification without
Commission action.530 No commenters opposed this aspect of the proposal.
We are adopting, substantially as proposed, final rules that require Commission
action before a Regulation A offering statement may be qualified. The final rules modify
the proposed rules by permitting the offering statements to be declared qualified by a
“notice of qualification” issued by the Division of Corporation Finance, pursuant to
delegated authority, rather than requiring the Commission itself to issue an order. 531 The
notice of qualification is analogous to a notice of effectiveness in registered offerings. 532
We are therefore amending the Commission’s organization rules, as they relate to the
delegated authority of the Director of the Division of Corporation Finance, to permit the
Division to issue qualification orders pursuant to Regulation A. 533 The final rules also
eliminate the risk that an issuer may exclude a delaying notation either in error or in an
effort to become qualified automatically without review and comment by the
Commission staff. Given the electronic filing processes we are adopting, 534 the scaled
disclosure requirements for Tier 1 and Tier 2 offerings, 535 and the preemption of state
securities law registration and qualification requirements for Tier 2 offerings, 536 we

530

CFA Letter; CFA Institute Letter; MCS Letter.

531

See Rule 252(e).

532

See 17 CFR 200.30-1(a)(5) (The Director of the Division of Corporation Finance has the delegated
authority to declare registration statements to be effective within shorter periods of time than 20
days after filing, consistent with Section 8(a) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77h).

533

Rule 30-1(b)(2)-(4).

534

See discussion in Section II.C.1. above.

535

See discussion in Section II.C.3.b. above.

536

See discussion in Section II.H.3. below.

143

believe it is appropriate to ensure that the Commission staff has the opportunity to review
and comment on an offering statement before it becomes qualified.
D.

Solicitation of Interest (Testing the Waters)
1.

Proposed Rules

Under Securities Act Section 3(b)(2)(E), issuers may test the waters for interest in
an offering—without restriction as to the types of investors solicited—before filing an
offering statement on such terms and conditions as the Commission prescribes. We
proposed to permit issuers to use testing the waters solicitation materials both before and
after the offering statement is filed, subject to issuer compliance with the rules on filing
of solicitation materials and disclaimers. 537 As we noted in the Proposing Release, the
investor protections with respect to solicitation materials in existing Regulation A would
remain in place as these materials remain subject to the antifraud and other civil liability
provisions of the federal securities laws. 538 As proposed, testing the waters materials
used by an issuer or its intermediaries after publicly filing an offering statement would be
required to include a current preliminary offering circular or contain a notice informing
potential investors where and how the most current preliminary offering circular can be
obtained. We further proposed to require issuers to publicly file their offering statements
not later than 21 calendar days before qualification so that any solicitation made in the
537

This timing is similar to the “testing the waters” permitted for emerging growth companies under
new Section 5(d) of the Securities Act, added by the JOBS Act, which can also be conducted both
before and after filing of a registration statement. Under Section 5(d), no legending or disclaimers
are required, but testing the waters is limited to potential investors that are “qualified institutional
buyers” or institutional “accredited investors.”

538

The Commission’s antifraud liability provisions in Section 17 of the Securities Act, 15
U.S.C. 77q, apply to any person who commits fraud in connection with the offer or sale of
securities. Section 3(b)(2)(D) of the Securities Act, 15 U.S.C. 77c(b)(2)(D), states that the civil
liability provisions of Section 12(a)(2) apply to any person offering or selling securities under
Regulation A. See also Rel. No. 33-6924, at fn. 48.

144

21 calendar days before the earliest date of potential sales of securities would be
conducted using the most recent version of the preliminary offering circular. The
proposed rules would amend the requirements for submission or filing of solicitation
materials, so that such material would be submitted or filed as an exhibit when the
offering statement is either submitted for non-public review or filed (and updated for
substantive changes in such material after the initial non-public submission or filing) but
would no longer be required to be submitted at or before the time of first use.
As proposed, Rule 255(b) would require all soliciting materials to bear certain
legends or disclaimers. 539 Further, we did not propose to limit testing the waters to QIBs
and institutional accredited investors (as is currently the case with testing the waters by
emerging growth companies under Securities Act Section 5(d)).
2.

Comments on Proposed Rules

Most commenters generally supported the proposed amendments to the testing the
waters provisions. 540 Several commenters, however, recommended requiring the filing of
testing the waters materials prior to first use. 541 These commenters suggested that the
antifraud and other civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws are not an
adequate substitute for the investor protections afforded by an advance filing requirement
for solicitation materials. They further suggested that their concerns about the proposed
testing the waters provisions are compounded by an access equals delivery model of final

539

Proposed Rule 255(b). As proposed, Rule 255(b) would largely follow similar provisions in the
context of registered offerings. See Rule 134(d), 17 CFR 230.134(d) (requiring a disclaimer for
solicitations of interest in registered offerings).

540

BIO Letter; Letter from Daniel McElroy, DuMoulin Black LLP, April 1, 2014 (“DuMoulin
Letter”); Ladd Letter 2; Paul Hastings Letter; Richardson Patel Letter.

541

Massachusetts Letter 2; NASAA Letter 2; WDFI Letter.

145

offering circular delivery. One commenter recommended allowing states to have
immediate access to all testing the waters materials filed with the Commission. 542
Another commenter recommended making the filing of testing the waters materials a
condition to the exemption, 543 while a third commenter specifically opposed that
recommendation. 544
Two commenters recommended ensuring that any testing the waters materials that
are filed with the Commission be kept confidential, at least until the offering statement is
qualified. 545 One commenter recommended removing any requirement to file testing the
waters materials publicly, 546 while another commenter recommended not requiring
testing the waters materials to be filed for Tier 2 offerings. 547 One commenter supported
the use of legends on testing the waters materials or, in lieu of legends, restricting testing
the waters to certain types of investors, such as QIBs and accredited investors. 548
Several commenters suggested that the Commission provide market participants
with communication safe harbors from Section 12(a)(2) liability for regular business
communications by a Regulation A issuer. 549

542

Ladd Letter 2.

543

MCS Letter.

544

BIO Letter.

545

Heritage Letter; Ladd Letter 2.

546

BIO Letter.

547

MoFo Letter.

548

CFA Institute Letter.

549

ABA BLS Letter; Canaccord Letter; CFIRA Letter 1; CFIRA Letter 2; MoFo Letter; Public
Startup Co. Letter 6; WR Hambrecht + Co Letter. See also discussion of Section 12(a)(2) liability
in Proposing Release, Section II.B.7.

146

3.

Final Rules

We are adopting testing the waters provisions in the final rules as proposed.
Under the final rules, issuers will be permitted to test the waters with all potential
investors and use solicitation materials both before and after the offering statement is
filed, subject to issuer compliance with the rules on filing and disclaimers. 550
The final rules require, as proposed, that testing the waters materials used by an
issuer or its intermediaries after the issuer publicly files an offering statement be
accompanied by a current preliminary offering circular or contain a notice informing
potential investors where and how the most current preliminary offering circular can be
obtained. 551 This requirement may be satisfied by providing the URL where the
preliminary offering circular or the offering statement may be obtained. Solicitation
materials will remain subject to the antifraud and other civil liability provisions of the
federal securities laws. 552 Further, the final rules require issuers and intermediaries that
use testing the waters materials after publicly filing the offering statement to update and
redistribute such material in a substantially similar manner as such materials were
originally distributed to the extent that either the material itself or the preliminary
offering circular attached thereafter becomes inadequate or inaccurate in any material
respect. 553

550

Rule 255. For a discussion of the use of solicitation materials as it relates to (i) the doctrine of
integration, see Section II.B.5.c. above and Rule 255(e), and (ii) the application of state securities
laws, see Section II.H.3. below.

551

Rule 255(b)(4).

552

See fn. 538 above.

553

Issuers would not, however, be required to update and redistribute solicitation materials to the
extent that: (i) any such changes occur only with respect to the preliminary offering circular, (ii)
no similar changes are required in the solicitation materials previously relied upon, and (iii) such
materials included (when originally distributed) a URL where the preliminary offering circular or

147

As discussed in Section II.C.2. above, first-time issuers that are eligible for, and
elect to, non-publicly submit draft offering statements are required to publicly file their
offering statements not later than 21 calendar days before qualification so that any
solicitation of interest made in the 21 calendar days before the earliest date of potential
sales of securities by such issuers will be conducted while potential investors have access
to the most recent version of the preliminary offering circular. Additionally, in light of
the preemption of state securities laws registration requirements in the final rules for
Tier 2 offerings, the 21 calendar day requirement will enable state securities regulators to
require such issuers to file such materials with them for a minimum of 21 calendar days
before any potential sales to investors in their respective states. 554
As proposed, the final rules require that issuers submit or file solicitation
materials as an exhibit when the offering statement is either submitted for non-public
review or filed (and update for substantive changes in such material after the initial nonpublic submission or filing). However, issuers are no longer required to submit
solicitation materials at or before the time of first use. 555 The treatment of solicitation
materials in Regulation A offerings is generally consistent with the Commission staff’s
treatment of solicitation materials used by emerging growth companies under Securities
Act Section 5(d), with two exceptions that we believe will provide investors in
Regulation A offerings with additional protections:

the offering statement may be obtained and that URL continues to link to the most recent version
of the preliminary offering circular. See Rule 255(d).
554

See fn. 277 above.

555

Rule 255.

148

•

solicitation materials used in Regulation A offerings are required to be included
with the offering statement; 556 and

•

solicitation materials used by Regulation A issuers that file an offering statement
with the Commission will be publicly available as a matter of course.

Contrary to the views of commenters that suggested we keep solicitation materials
confidential, or not require such materials to be filed (either publicly or at all), we believe
the submission and filing requirements for solicitation materials are important elements
of the final rules for the use of solicitation materials. 557 We believe that issuers should be
accountable for the content of solicitation materials and that such information must be
consistent with the information contained in the offering circular. We believe that
making these materials publicly available as an exhibit to the offering statement, and
thereby subjecting them to staff review and comment and scrutiny by the public, will help
ensure that issuers use solicitation materials with appropriate caution. However, for the
reasons discussed in Section II.F. below, we do not believe that the filing of such
materials should be a condition to relying on the Regulation A exemption.
We are adopting as proposed the required legends for solicitation materials. The
legends provide that sales made pursuant to Regulation A are contingent upon the
qualification of the offering statement. 558 Additionally, to provide greater flexibility
when using solicitation materials, the final rules eliminate, as proposed, the requirement
in existing Regulation A for testing the waters materials to identify the issuer’s chief
executive officer, business, and products. Solicitation materials used before qualification
556

See Item 17 (Exhibits), Part III of Form 1-A.

557

BIO Letter; Heritage Letter; Ladd Letter 2; MoFo Letter.

558

See Rule 255(a).

149

will, therefore, be required to bear a legend or disclaimer indicating that: (1) no money
or other consideration is being solicited, and if sent, will not be accepted; (2) no sales will
be made or commitments to purchase accepted until the offering statement is qualified;
and (3) a prospective purchaser’s indication of interest is non-binding. 559 While the
expansion of use of solicitation materials after filing may result in investors receiving
more sales literature in marketed offerings, in such circumstances, potential investors will
also be afforded more time with the preliminary offering circular before making an
investment decision because, as noted above, testing the waters materials used by an
issuer or its intermediaries after the issuer publicly files an offering statement must be
accompanied by a current preliminary offering circular or contain a notice informing
potential investors where and how the most current preliminary offering circular can be
obtained. 560
We believe the approach to solicitation materials that we are adopting today is
consistent with existing Regulation A that allows issuers to test the waters and will make
the use of solicitation materials more beneficial for issuers and investors. For issuers, the
final rules will generally reduce compliance burdens and entirely eliminate the filing
requirement for issuers that, after testing the waters, decide not to proceed with an
offering. With respect to investors, we note that the final rules contain significant
safeguards that should help mitigate the concerns expressed by some commenters that not
requiring testing the waters materials to be submitted or filed with the Commission

559

See Rule 255(b).

560

Cf. The Regulation of Securities Offerings, Rel. No. 33-7606A, at 78 (Nov. 17, 1998) [63 FR
67174] (discussing the importance of providing a preliminary prospectus in conjunction with the
distribution of sales materials).

150

before first use will result in a reduction in investor protections. 561 These include the
requirements to make the most recent preliminary offering circular available with
solicitation materials after filing, to redistribute solicitation materials after filing to the
extent that either the material itself or the preliminary offering circular attached thereafter
becomes inadequate or inaccurate in any material respect, to deliver the preliminary
offering circular at least 48 hours in advance of sale if the issuer is not subject to a Tier 2
reporting obligation, to deliver the final offering circular (or a notice of the final offering
circular) no later than two business days after sale in all instances, and the minimum 21
calendar day filing requirement for issuers that non-publicly submit draft offering
statements as well as the continued application of the antifraud provisions of the federal
securities laws. Additionally, state securities regulators have the ability under the final
rules to require issuers to file with them any materials required to be filed with the
Commission.562 From an investor protection standpoint, we also note that sales under
Regulation A may occur only in connection with a qualified offering statement that is
filed with the Commission and that is subject to review by the staff.
Lastly, to address the concerns of commenters regarding an issuers’ ability to
conduct routine communications with customers and suppliers at or near the time of a
contemplated Regulation A offering, 563 we are confirming, consistent with Rule 169’s
existing exemption from Sections 2(a)(10) and 5(c) of the Securities Act for regularly

561

See fn. 541 above.

562

See also fn. 277 above and discussion in Section II.H. below. Where states elect to require issuers
to file such information with them, their respective securities regulators will, for example, have
access to solicitation materials relied upon by first-time issuers that non-publicly submit draft
offering statements for a minimum of 21 calendar days before the first date of any potential sales.

563

See fn. 549 above

151

released factual business communications, 564 that we do not believe such
communications constitute solicitation of interest materials under Regulation A.
Ultimately, whether or not a communication is limited to factual business information
depends on the facts and circumstances, but issuers may generally look to the provisions
of Rule 169 for guidance in making this determination in the Regulation A context. More
generally, we note that factual business information means information about the issuer,
its business, financial condition, products, services, or advertisement of such products or
services. 565 Factual business information generally does not include such things as
predictions, projections, forecasts, or opinions with respect to valuation of a security. 566
The approach we are taking today with respect to factual business information is
consistent with the Commission’s stated position on such communications for registered
offerings and clarifies its application to Regulation A solicitation of interest materials.
E.

Ongoing Reporting
Section 3(b)(2) of the Securities Act requires issuers to provide annual audited

financial information on an ongoing basis and expressly provides that the Commission
may consider whether additional ongoing reporting should be required. Specifically,
Section 3(b)(4) grants the Commission authority to require issuers “to make available to
investors and file with the Commission periodic disclosures regarding the issuer, its
business operations, its financial condition, its corporate governance principles, its use of

564

17 CFR 230.169.

565

See Rel. No. 33-5180 (Aug. 20, 1971) (Guidelines for Release of Information by Issuers Whose
Securities are in Registration).

566

Id.

152

investor funds, and other appropriate matters, and also may provide for the suspension
and termination of such a requirement with respect to that issuer.”
As we noted in the Proposing Release, we are mindful that a one-size-fits-all
ongoing reporting regime may not be suitable for all types of entities and investors. 567 In
the final rules for Regulation A, we have endeavored to achieve an appropriate balance
between the costs and benefits associated with the provision of ongoing information
about issuers of Regulation A securities to investors in such securities and any market
that develops.
1.

Continuing Disclosure Obligations
a.

Proposed Rules for Continuing Disclosure Obligations

Regulation A currently requires issuers to file a Form 2-A with the Commission
to report sales and the termination of sales made under Regulation A every six months
after qualification and within 30 calendar days after the termination, completion, or final
sale of securities in the offering. 568 We proposed to rescind Form 2-A, but to continue to
require Regulation A issuers to file with the Commission electronically on EDGAR after
the termination or completion of the offering the information generally disclosed in
Form 2-A. 569 As proposed, issuers conducting Tier 1 offerings would be required to
provide this information on Part I of proposed Form 1-Z not later than 30 calendar days

567

See Proposing Release, at Section II.E.

568

See 17 CFR 230.257 (2014); see also 17 CFR 239.91 (Form 2-A).

569

We did not propose to continue to require issuers to disclose the use of proceeds currently
disclosed in Form 2-A, as issuers would already have to disclose this information in Part II of
proposed Form 1-A and changes in the use of proceeds after qualification not previously disclosed
may require issuers to file a post-qualification amendment or offering circular supplement to
update such disclosure. See discussion of continuous or delayed offerings and offering circular
supplements in Section II.C.4. above.

153

after termination or completion of the offering, 570 while issuers conducting Tier 2
offerings have the flexibility to provide this information on either Part I of Form 1-Z at
the time of filing an exit report or proposed Form 1-K as part of their annual report,
whichever is filed first. 571
As proposed, Tier 2 issuers would be subject to a Regulation A ongoing reporting
regime that would require, in addition to annual reports and summary information about a
recently completed offering, semiannual reports on proposed Form 1-SA, current event
reports on proposed Form 1-U, and, when eligible and electing to do so, notice to the
Commission of the suspension of ongoing reporting obligations on Part II of proposed
Form 1-Z. All of these reports would be filed electronically on EDGAR.
b.

Comments on the Proposed Rules

We received both general comments and specific comments on the proposed
forms. These comments are discussed in turn below.
General Comments
Commenters generally approved of the continuing disclosure obligations for
Tier 2 offerings. 572 One commenter noted favorably that professional fees, other costs,
and the time burden associated with the proposed rules would likely be substantially
lower for Regulation A issuers than for issuers subject to Exchange Act reporting. 573

570

Proposed Form 1-Z (exit report) is discussed in Section II.E.4. below.

571

Proposed Rule 257(a), (b)(1).

572

ABA BLS Letter; Campbell Letter; Canaccord Letter; CFA Letter; McCarter & English Letter;
NASAA Letter 2; Letter from Jason Coombs, Co-Founder and CEO, Public Startup Company,
Inc., March 26, 2014 (“Public Startup Co. Letter 5”); US Alliance Corp. Letter; WDFI Letter.

573

US Alliance Corp. Letter.

154

Another commenter remarked that the proposed ongoing reporting regime strikes an
appropriate balance between the benefits of disclosure and costs to issuers. 574
Other commenters expressed general support, but also recommended changes to
the semiannual reporting requirement or the content of Form 1-U. 575 One commenter
supported the general policy that it should not be easier or harder to exit the Regulation A
reporting system than it would be to exit the Exchange Act reporting system. 576 Several
commenters recommended including an ongoing disclosure requirement for Tier 1
issuers, including disclosure at a level lower than what was proposed for Tier 2, 577
ongoing disclosure with yearly audited financials, 578 or some unspecified continuous
disclosure obligation. 579 Another commenter recommended extending continuing
disclosure obligations into Tier 1, but further suggested that the Commission replace any
requirement to provide audited financial statements with an affidavit from management
attesting to the accuracy of the financial statements. 580 A few commenters generally
recommended reducing the disclosure burden on Tier 2 issuers. 581 One of these
commenters recommended making continuing disclosure requirements contingent upon
factors other than offering size, such as whether the issuer has taken steps to foster a

574

McCarter & English Letter.

575

ABA BLS Letter; Canaccord Letter; NASAA Letter 2; WDFI Letter.

576

ABA BLS Letter (raising the issue particularly with respect to “very small issuers” under Tier 2).

577

Guzik Letter 1 (suggesting that Tier 1 ongoing disclosure requirements could parallel Tier 2’s
requirements but without the requirement for semiannual reports).

578

Ladd Letter 2.

579

SVB Financial Letter.

580

Public Startup Co. Letter 5.

581

Heritage Letter; IPA Letter (providing estimated costs of compliance for offering statement and
periodic reports).

155

market in its securities. 582 This commenter also recommended allowing issuers to either
avoid ongoing reporting or to file only financial statements and a management letter
regarding operations and results if, shortly after commencing the offering upon
qualification, issuers have less than 300 record holders. Another commenter
recommended allowing Canadian companies to rely on Rule 12g3-2(b) to avoid having to
file ongoing reports under Regulation A. 583 As an alternative, this commenter
recommended allowing Canadian companies to furnish reports under cover of Form 6-K
rather than using the Regulation A reports. One commenter recommended that, to the
extent that the final rules allow foreign private issuers to use Regulation A, such issuers
should be permitted to follow the ongoing reporting rules applicable to them in the
Exchange Act context in lieu of Regulation A ongoing reporting requirements, 584 while
another commenter specifically opposed this suggestion. 585 Another commenter
recommended requiring officers, directors, and controlling shareholders of companies
that offer securities under Regulation A to make ongoing disclosure of transactions in
company securities, similar to reporting on Forms 3, 4, and 5 and Schedules 13D, 13G,
and 13F in the registered context. 586
Comments on Form 1-K
One commenter recommended revising proposed Form 1-K to expressly not
require the disclosure of an issuer’s plan of operations, as described in Item 9(c) of Part II
582

Heritage Letter.

583

DuMoulin Letter.

584

McCarter & English Letter (noting Exchange Act Form 20-F, 40-F, Form 6-K, and ongoing home
country reports).

585

Andreessen/Cowen Letter.

586

OTC Markets Letter.

156

of Form 1-A. 587 This commenter further recommended clarifying whether a Tier 2 issuer
is required to comply with Rules 3-10, 3-16, and 8-04 of Regulation S-X in Form 1-K, in
light of the reference to segmented data in Item 7(b) to Part F/S of proposed Form 1-A. 588
This same commenter recommended that the Commission clarify whether a Tier 2 issuer
is required to comply with Rule 8-04 of Regulation S-X in proposed Form 1-K,
particularly with respect to probable acquisitions. 589
Comments on Form 1-SA
Several commenters recommended requiring or permitting quarterly reporting
rather than semiannual reporting on proposed Form 1-SA. 590 One of these commenters
stated that quarterly reporting is standard in the United States and is not overly
burdensome. 591 Two other commenters stated that quarterly reporting was necessary for
investor protection and to reduce the risk of insider trading. 592 Other commenters noted
that quarterly reporting might be preferred by market participants but supported a
semiannual requirement. 593
One commenter agreed with our proposal not to require Tier 2 issuers to have
their Form 1-SA financial statements reviewed by an independent accountant,
particularly with respect to smaller issuers. 594 Another commenter recommended either
587

E&Y Letter (noting the Commission’s intent to follow this approach, as mentioned in the
Proposing Release at fn. 397).

588

Id.

589

Id.

590

E&Y Letter; Massachusetts Letter 2; NASAA Letter 2; OTC Markets Letter; WDFI Letter.

591

OTC Markets Letter.

592

Massachusetts Letter 2; WDFI Letter.

593

B. Riley Letter; Milken Institute Letter.

594

ABA BLS Letter. As proposed, such reviews would not be required for any Form 1-SA filing.

157

requiring the financial statements in Form 1-SA to be reviewed by an independent
accountant or requiring issuers to disclose on Form 1-SA that the financial statements
were not subject to review. 595 Yet another commenter recommended that there be no
requirement to provide Rule 3-16 of Regulation S-X financial statements or summarized
financial information in semiannual reports (to align with requirements for existing
registrants that are not required to include this in Form 10-Q). 596 This commenter also
recommended clarifying if the financial statements in Form 1-SA can be presented using
a condensed format consistent with Rule 8-03(a) of Regulation S-X and if additional
disclosure requirements of Rule 8-03(b) are applicable. 597 This same commenter
recommended removing Item 3(d) of Form 1-SA, because neither this statement nor a
statement of changes in stockholders’ equity is an existing requirement on Form 10-Q. 598
Comments on Form 1-U
Commenters made a number of suggestions regarding the current report
requirements. Some commenters recommended eliminating the requirement to file
Form 1-U for the smallest issuers, based on a measure such as asset size or market
capitalization. 599 Other commenters recommended extending the proposed filing
requirement from four business days after the triggering event to fifteen business days
after such event. 600 Several commenters recommended changing or clarifying the

595

KPMG Letter.

596

E&Y Letter.

597

Id.

598

Id.

599

ABA BLS Letter; Milken Institute Letter.

600

ABA BLS Letter; E&Y Letter; Milken Institute Letter.

158

“fundamental change” standard in Item 1 of proposed Form 1-U. 601 One of these
commenters expressed concerns about whether this item will be consistently interpreted
and whether the use of the term “fundamental change,” in light of the use of the same
term in Item 512 of Regulation S-K, would cause additional confusion. 602 This
commenter further recommended that, for contracts involving business acquisitions, the
measurement of significance in this item should be limited to the investment test and the
numerical threshold should be increased to at least 50% to be more consistent with the
stated disclosure objective. Three commenters recommended moving to a materiality
standard so as to be consistent with the standards in the anti-fraud provisions of federal
securities laws, suggesting that this would help avoid confusion. 603 One commenter
recommended allowing (but not requiring) Tier 1 issuers to report material information
on Form 1-U, including the financial statements of significant acquired businesses. 604
Other commenters suggested changes to the substance of what would need to be
reported on Form 1-U. One commenter generally recommended cross-referencing
existing disclosure requirements when a proposed disclosure standard is meant to be the
same. 605 For example, this commenter suggested that Form 1-U include a cross-reference
to Form 8-K when disclosure requirements are meant to be the same. One commenter
recommended permitting companies to disclose: (1) a change in accountants in the next
periodic filing instead of reporting it on Form 1-U if the change does not involve a
601

E&Y Letter; Massachusetts Letter 2; NASAA Letter 2; WDFI Letter.

602

E&Y Letter. For description of Item 512, see fn. 486 above.

603

Massachusetts Letter 2; NASAA Letter 2; WDFI Letter.

604

E&Y Letter. Two commenters made a similar recommendation without specifying which form
should be used for that purpose. See ABA BLS Letter; Canaccord Letter.

605

PwC Letter.

159

disagreement or reportable event (as defined in Item 304 of Regulation S-K); and (2)
sales of equity securities in the next periodic filing if the price was not below that of
previous primary offerings. 606 Two of these commenters recommended eliminating the
requirement to report unregistered sales of securities on Form 1-U, or to raise the
reporting threshold to only cover offerings that represent at least 10% of the issuer’s
pre-transaction outstanding shares. 607
c.

Final Rules for Continuing Disclosure Obligations

We are adopting rules for continuing disclosure obligations under Regulation A
generally as proposed, with certain technical modifications and clarifications. The final
rules eliminate Form 2-A and in its place require the disclosure of similar information
pursuant to Part I of Form 1-Z for Tier 1 issuers and, depending on when the issuer’s
offering is terminated or completed, in either Form 1-K or Part I of Form 1-Z for Tier 2
issuers. As proposed, the respective disclosure requirements in Part I of Forms 1-K and
1-Z will include the date the offering was qualified and commenced, the amount of
securities qualified, the amount of securities sold in the offering, the price of the
securities, the portions of the offering that were sold on behalf of the issuer and any
selling securityholders, any fees associated with the offering, and the net proceeds to the
issuer. 608 We believe that summary information and data about an issuer and its
Regulation A offering is most valuable when obtained after the offering is completed or
606

E&Y Letter.

607

ABA BLS Letter; MoFo Letter.

608

See Part I of Form 1-K and Part I of Form 1-Z. For clarification purposes, we have changed the
references in Part I in these forms from “number of securities” to “amount of securities.” These
changes should avoid confusion when reporting debt offerings where a quantifiable number of
securities is not being offered. In such cases, issuers will be able to report the aggregate sales of
securities in the offering.

160

terminated. 609 Therefore, as proposed, issuers will only be required to disclose such
information after the termination or completion of the offering.
As noted in the Proposing Release, we are concerned that uniform ongoing
reporting requirements for all issuers of Regulation A securities could disproportionately
affect issuers in smaller offerings. For that reason, the final rules do not require any
ongoing reporting for issuers conducting Tier 1 offerings, other than the disclosure of the
summary information discussed above. 610 Issuers in smaller offerings will, however,
have the option to conduct a Tier 2 offering and subject themselves to ongoing reporting
and other Tier 2 requirements. 611
The final rules for ongoing reporting for Tier 2 issuers are being adopted as
proposed, except where noted below, and will require issuers to file annual reports on
Form 1-K, 612 file semiannual reports on Form 1-SA, 613 file current event reports on
Form 1-U, 614 and provide notice to the Commission of the suspension of their ongoing
reporting obligations on Part II of Form 1-Z. 615 All reports for Tier 1 and Tier 2 offerings
are required to be filed electronically on EDGAR. 616
609

Additionally, in continuous offerings, issuers are required to file post-qualification amendments
with the Commission every twelve months to the extent that sales are ongoing at that time. See
Rule 252(f)(2)(i).

610

See Rule 257(a).

611

An issuer offering up to $20 million in a Tier 2 offering would, in addition to providing ongoing
reports to the Commission on an annual and semiannual basis, with interim current event updates,
be required to file audited financial statements in the offering statement, just as issuers in larger
Tier 2 offerings are required to do. See Section II.C.3.b(2)(c). above.

612

Rule 257(b)(1).

613

Rule 257(b)(3).

614

Rule 257(b)(4).

615

Rule 257(d)(2).

616

Subject, in certain cases, to the hardship exemptions set forth in Rules 201 and 202 of
Regulation S-T. 17 CFR 232.201-202.

161

As discussed above, commenters suggested that the Commission consider various
potential changes to the proposed ongoing reporting requirements for Tier 2 issuers,
including: extending ongoing reporting to Tier 1 offerings with some modifications;
increasing the ongoing reporting requirements for Tier 2 issuers to include analogs to
Exchange Act Forms 3, 4, and 5 and beneficial ownership reporting on Schedules 13D,
13G and 13F; basing the ongoing reporting requirements on characteristics of the issuer,
such as whether the issuer has taken steps to foster a secondary market; or providing
different requirements for Canadian companies or foreign private issuers. Another
commenter suggested that we allow issuers to either avoid ongoing reporting or to file
only financial statements and a management letter regarding operations and results if,
shortly after commencing the offering upon qualification, issuers have less than 300
record holders. 617
We do not, however, believe that the changes suggested by commenters described
above are advisable at this time. Instead, we believe the approach to ongoing reporting
adopted in the final rules is preferable and will support a regular flow of information
about issuers conducting Tier 2 offerings, which will benefit investors in these larger
offerings and also help foster the development of a secondary market in such securities,
while balancing the compliance burden that would be imposed on smaller issuers. We do
not believe that requiring ongoing reporting for Tier 1 issuers, other than the requirement
to file a Form 1-Z upon completion or termination of the offering, is necessary for Tier 1
offerings. We believe issuers in Tier 1 offerings will be small companies whose
businesses revolve around products, services, and a customer base that will likely be
617

Heritage Letter.

162

more local in nature than issuers in Tier 2 offerings. 618 Further, we believe Tier 1
offerings will be conducted by issuers that are unlikely to seek the creation of a
secondary trading market in their securities. 619 In light of this, we do not believe that it is
necessary to require ongoing reporting for Tier 1 issuers. Consistent with our experience
under existing Regulation A, we do not believe that a lack of ongoing reporting for
issuers in Tier 1 offerings will adversely affect investors that base purchasing decisions
on the narrative and financial statement disclosure requirements included in the offering
statement and, with respect to continuous offerings lasting for more than one year,
updated annually by post-qualification amendment thereafter. Further, notwithstanding
the suggestions of some commenters, 620 we believe that adopting different ongoing
reporting requirements for Canadian issuers 621 would not be consistent with our goal to
adopt a uniform reporting standard for Tier 2 issuers that provides investors with
certainty as to the amount of information they can expect to receive from an issuer in a
Tier 2 offering on an ongoing basis. We believe that the final rules will provide investors
and potential investors with the information they need to make investment decisions and
facilitate capital formation for smaller companies.
We are therefore adopting the following ongoing reporting requirements for
Tier 2 offerings:

618

See fn. 830 in Section II.H.3. below.

619

See discussion of the nature of offerings in Section II.H.3. below.

620

DuMoulin Letter; see also McCarter & English Letter.

621

Commenters also suggested that their proposed ongoing reporting for Canadian issuers apply to
foreign private issuers. As noted above in Section II.B.1.c., however, non-Canadian foreign
issuers are not eligible under Regulation A.

163

(1)

Annual Reports on Form 1-K

As proposed and adopted, Form 1-K will consist of two parts: Part I
(Notification) and Part II (Information to be included in the report). The contents of and
requirements for Part I and Part II are, with the exception of technical amendments to the
forms, amendments that are necessary to reflect corresponding changes to the required
audit standards of financial statements filed under Part F/S of Form 1-A, and additional
guidance designed to streamline disclosure, adopted without changes from the proposed
rules.
(a)

Part I (Notification)

As adopted, Part I of Form 1-K will be an online XML-based fillable form that
will include certain basic information about the issuer, prepopulated on the basis of
information previously disclosed in Part I of Form 1-A, which can be updated by the
issuer at the time of filing. Additionally, if at the time of filing the Form 1-K an issuer
has terminated or completed a qualified Regulation A offering, the issuer will be required
to provide certain updated summary information about itself and such offering in Part I,
including the date the offering was qualified and commenced, the amount of securities
qualified, the amount of securities sold in the offering, the price of the securities, the
portions of the offering that were sold on behalf of the issuer and any selling
securityholders, any fees associated with the offering, and the net proceeds to the issuer.
As proposed and adopted, issuers will only be required to fill out the XML-based
portion of Part I of Form 1-K that relates to the summary information about a terminated
or completed offering once per offering. An issuer that elects to terminate its ongoing
reporting obligation under Tier 2 of Regulation A after terminating or completing an

164

offering, in a fiscal year other than the fiscal year in which the offering statement was
qualified, but before reporting the required summary information on Form 1-K, will be
required to file the summary offering information in Part I of Form 1-K by filing a
Form 1-Z (exit report) that includes such information. 622
The summary information disclosed will facilitate analysis of Regulation A
offerings by the Commission, other regulators, third-party data providers, and market
participants and thereby enable the Commission and others to evaluate the use and
effectiveness of Regulation A as a capital formation tool. 623 The fillable form will enable
issuers to provide the required information in a convenient medium and capture relevant
data about the recently terminated or completed Regulation A offering. The required
disclosure will be publicly available on EDGAR. Consistent with Part I of Form 1-A, the
issuer will not be required to obtain specialty software to file Part I of Form 1-K on
EDGAR.

622

General Instruction (3) to Form 1-Z.

623

See also discussion in Section II.E.4. below.

165

(b)

Part II (Information to be included in the report)

As with Part II of Form 1-A, the final rules require that the issuer submit Part II of
Form 1-K electronically as a text file attachment containing the body of the disclosure
document and financial statements, formatted to be compatible with the EDGAR filing
system. Part II will require issuers to disclose information about themselves and their
business based on the financial statement and narrative disclosure requirements of
Form 1-A. 624
As adopted, Item 2 to Part II of Form 1-K (Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation) requires issuers, by crossreference to the requirements of Form 1-A, to provide information for the two most
recently completed fiscal years. As suggested by one commenter, 625 we are clarifying
that the Form 1-K cross-reference to the requirements of Item 9 to Part II of Form 1-A
does not require issuers to include the additional MD&A disclosure required in Item 9(c)
for issuers that have not received revenue from operations during each of the three
fiscal years immediately before the filing of the offering statement (or since inception,
whichever is shorter). 626
Additionally, we are revising the financial statement requirements in Item 7 to
Part II of Form 1-K. As proposed, Form 1-K directed issuers to the financial statement
requirements of Part F/S of Form 1-A. We are revising this portion of the form so as to
include the financial statement requirements directly in Item 7 to Part II of Form 1-K.
We believe this change to Item 7 will make it easier for issuers to comply by clarifying,
624

Part II of Form 1-K.

625

E&Y Letter.

626

See Item 2 to Part II of Form 1-K.

166

as one commenter recommended, 627 the specific portions of Regulation S-X relating to
financial statements for entities other than the issuer that are required in Form 1-K.
Additionally, since Tier 2 issuers are now permitted to file financial statements that are
audited in accordance with either U.S. GAAS or the standards of the PCAOB, a
corresponding change has been made to the financial statement requirements of Item 7 of
Form 1-K. 628 As proposed, the auditor of financial statements would need to be
independent under Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X and must comply with the other
requirements of Article 2 of Regulation S-X, but need not be PCAOB-registered.
Further, in comparison to the proposed rules, Item 7(a) no longer requires issuers to
provide a list of the financial statements included in Form 1-K at the beginning of the
financial statement section. We eliminated this requirement in the final rules because we
do not believe that there is a need for a separate list of the financial statements at the
beginning of this section, when the financial statements themselves will be labeled.
Form 1-K will permit issuers to incorporate by reference certain information
previously filed on EDGAR, but will require issuers to include a hyperlink to such
material on EDGAR. 629 In a change from the proposed rules, the final rules do not limit
the availability of incorporation by reference to information previously filed pursuant to
Regulation A. We believe that this change will facilitate the provision of required
information to investors, while taking a consistent approach to information previously
provided to the Commission and publicly available on EDGAR. Additionally, to avoid

627

E&Y Letter.

628

See discussion in Section II.C.3.b(2)(c). above.

629

General Instruction D. to Form 1-K. The hyperlink to EDGAR need only be active at the time of
filing of the Form 1-K. Cf. Securities Act Rule 411(c) and Exchange Act Rule 12b-32.

167

unnecessary repetition of disclosure items, Form 1-K encourages issuers to crossreference items within the form, where applicable. 630 Further, in order to avoid
incorporation by reference to stale information without requiring the latest version of the
document to be filed, Form 1-K indicates that, if any substantive modification has
occurred in the text of any document incorporated by reference since such document was
filed, the issuer must file with the reference a statement containing the text and date of
such modification. 631 Form 1-K will cover:
•

Business operations of the issuer for the prior three fiscal years (or, if in existence
for less than three years, since inception);

•

Transactions with related persons, promoters, and certain control persons;

•

Beneficial ownership of voting securities by executive officers, directors, and
10% owners;

•

Identities of directors, executive officers, and significant employees, with a
description of their business experience and involvement in certain legal
proceedings;

•

Executive compensation data for the most recent fiscal year for the three highest
paid executive officers or directors;

•

MD&A of the issuer’s liquidity, capital resources, and results of operations
covering the two most recently completed fiscal years; and

630

Id. Issuers may, for example, add a cross-reference to disclosure in the financial statements. We
have clarified, however, that like with Form 1-A, they may not add a cross-reference within the
financial statements themselves to disclosures elsewhere.

631

Id.

168

•

Two years of audited financial statements. 632

We anticipate that issuers will generally be able to use the offering materials as a basis to
prepare their ongoing disclosure.
As adopted in the final rules, Form 1-K includes requirements for financial
statements prepared on the same basis, and subject to the same requirements as to audit
standards and auditor independence, as the financial statements required in the
Regulation A offering circular for Tier 2 offerings. 633 Form 1-K must be filed within 120
calendar days after the issuer’s fiscal year end. 634 A manually signed copy of the
Form 1-K must be executed by the issuer and related signatories before or at the time of
filing and retained by the issuer for a period of five years. 635 Issuers will be required to
produce the manually signed copy to the Commission, upon request. 636 Any amendments
to the form must comply with the requirements of the applicable items and be filed under
cover of Form 1-K/A. 637
(2)

Semiannual Reports on Form 1-SA

We are adopting final rules for semiannual interim reporting for Regulation A
issuers generally as proposed, with technical amendments and additional guidance
designed to streamline the disclosure requirements for Tier 2 issuers and harmonize them
with the requirements of issuers subject to an ongoing reporting obligation under the

632

Part II of Form 1-K.

633

See Item 7 (Financial Statements), Part II of Form 1-K.

634

See General Instruction A.(2), Form 1-K.

635

See General Instruction C., Form 1-K.

636

Id.

637

See Rule 257(c) (also requiring the signature on behalf of an authorized representative of the
issuer and the inclusion of any specified certifications).

169

Exchange Act. 638 As proposed, we continue to believe that a semiannual, rather than a
quarterly, reporting requirement strikes an appropriate balance between the need to
provide information to the market and the cost of compliance for smaller issuers,
especially given the further flexibility provided to issuers in Form 1-U to provide
quarterly information if they elect to do so. 639 Issuers will be required to provide
semiannual reports on Form 1-SA that, much like reports on Form 10-Q, consist
primarily of financial statements and MD&A. 640 Unlike Form 10-Q, however,
Form 1-SA does not require disclosure about quantitative and qualitative market risk,
controls and procedures, updates to risk factors, or defaults on senior securities. 641 We
do not believe such disclosure is necessary for ongoing reports under Regulation A, as we
believe such disclosure is not applicable to, or appropriately tailored for, the types of
issuers likely to conduct Regulation A offerings.
Consistent with the technical, specialized suggestions of several commenters, 642
we are including provisions in Form 1-SA that will help issuers comply with the form
requirements, eliminate potential confusion over such requirements, and streamline and
harmonize disclosure to make the requirements for Tier 2 issuers no more onerous than,
and consistent with, the ongoing disclosures required of smaller reporting companies
under the Exchange Act. Specifically, the final rules:
638

Rule 257(b)(3); Form 1-SA.

639

Consistent with the suggestions of commenters, we are clarifying that issuers seeking to
voluntarily report information to the market on a more frequent basis may do so under the final
rules for current reporting on Form 1-U. See discussion in Section II.E.1.c(3). below; see also
discussion in Section II.E.2.c.below regarding the provision of ongoing reports as it applies to
Securities Act Rule 144.

640

See Part I (Financial Information) of Form 10-Q, 17 CFR 249.308a.

641

See Item 3 and Item 4 of Part I of Form 10-Q.

642

See, e.g., E&Y Letter; KPMG letter.

170

•

Add clarifying language to Item 1 (Management Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations) of Form 1-SA to indicate that
compliance with this disclosure requirement only applies to the interim financial
statements required by Item 3 to Form 1-SA and that, similar to our clarification
of Form 1-K’s requirements, issuers are not required to include the additional
MD&A disclosure required by Item 9(c) of Form 1-A; 643

•

Update the financial statement disclosure requirements of Form 1-SA to more
clearly delineate the requirements for compliance with Item 3 of Form 1-SA;

•

Provide that the financial statements that must be included pursuant to Item 3 may
be condensed, in addition to being unaudited, and that the financial statements are
not required to be reviewed;

•

Amend the final form to note that additional guidance on the presentation of
financial statements and footnotes and other disclosures can be found in Rule 8-03
of Regulation S-X; 644

•

Revise the requirements of Item 3(e) of Form 1-SA to match the disclosure
language contained in Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X for smaller reporting
companies;

•

Delete the requirement in Item 3(d) of proposed Form 1-SA to present interim
statements of changes in financial position for the period between the end of the
preceding fiscal year and the end of the interim period covered by this report, and

643

See Section II.F.1.c.(1)(b) above for a discussion of this clarification in Form 1-K.

644

Tier 2 issuers are required under Part F/S of Form 1-A to provide financial statements that comply
with Article 8 of Regulation S-X.

171

for the corresponding period of the preceding fiscal year, as this is not required of
issuers under Rule 8-03 of Regulation S-X; and
•

Make the ongoing reporting requirements under Item 3 of Form 1-SA more
consistent with what is required of issuers subject to an ongoing reporting
obligation under the Exchange Act, consistent with the suggestion of one
commenter, 645 by eliminating the line item requirements of Item 3(f) and (g), as
Rule 3-16 and Rule 4-10 of Regulation S-X generally do not require the
disclosure of such information other than in registration statements and annual
reports.
As adopted, Form 1-SA will require disclosure of updates otherwise reportable on

Form 1-U. The final rules permit issuers to incorporate by reference in Form 1-SA
certain information previously filed on EDGAR, but must include a hyperlink to such
material on EDGAR. 646 In a change from the proposed rules, the final rules do not limit
the availability of incorporation by reference to information previously filed pursuant to
Regulation A. We believe that this change will continue to facilitate the provision of
required information to investors, while taking a consistent approach to information
previously provided to the Commission and publicly available on EDGAR. Additionally,
in a change from the proposed form that seeks to avoid unnecessary repetition of
disclosure items, Form 1-SA encourages issuers to cross-reference items within the form,

645

E&Y Letter.

646

General Instruction D. to Form 1-SA. The hyperlink to EDGAR need only be active at the time of
filing of the Form 1-SA. Cf. Securities Act Rule 411(c) and Exchange Act Rule 12b-32.

172

where applicable. 647 Further, in order to avoid incorporation by reference to stale
information without requiring the latest version of the document to be filed, Form 1-SA
indicates that, if any substantive modification has occurred in the text of any document
incorporated by reference since such document was filed, the issuer must file with the
reference a statement containing the text and date of such modification. 648
Form 1-SA must be filed within 90 calendar days after the end of the first six
months of the issuer’s fiscal year. 649 The first such obligation to file will commence
immediately following the most recent fiscal year for which full financial statements
were included in the offering statement, or, if the offering statement included financial
statements for the first six months of the fiscal year following the most recent full fiscal
year, for the first six months of the following fiscal year. 650 As proposed, a manually
signed copy of the Form 1-SA must be executed by the issuer and related signatories
before or at the time of filing, retained by the issuer for a period of five years, and
produced by the issuer to the Commission, upon request. 651 The final rules require, as

647

Id. Issuers may, for example, add a cross-reference to disclosure in the financial statements. We
have clarified, however, that like with Form 1-A, they may not add a cross-reference within the
financial statements themselves to disclosures elsewhere.

648

Id.

649

See General Instruction A.(2), Form 1-SA.

650

For example, where an offering statement is filed in October 2015 and includes full financial
statements for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 and interim
financial statements for the six months ended June 30, 2015 and June 30, 2014 and is qualified in
December 2015, the Form 1-SA will not be required until within 90 days following the first six
months of the following fiscal year (i.e., within 90 days following June 30, 2016).
If, however, the offering statement is filed in March 2015 and qualified in June of 2015 than the
first Form 1-SA would cover the six months ended June 30, 2015 and June 30, 2014 and would
not be required to be filed until within 90 days following June 30, 2015.

651

See General Instruction C. to Form 1-SA.

173

proposed, any amendments to the form to comply with the requirements of the applicable
items and be filed under cover of Form 1-SA/A. 652
(3)

Current Reports on Form 1-U

In addition to the annual report on Form 1-K and semiannual report
on Form 1-SA, the final rules require issuers to submit current reports on Form 1-U. The
final rules are being adopted largely as proposed with one change and some technical
amendments and additional guidance designed to ease compliance with the final rules and
eliminate potential confusion as to the scope and applicability of the disclosure
requirements. The final rules require issuers to submit a report on Form 1-U when it
experiences one (or more) of the following events:
•

Fundamental changes; 653

•

Bankruptcy or receivership;

•

Material modification to the rights of securityholders;

•

Changes in the issuer’s certifying accountant;

•

Non-reliance on previous financial statements or a related audit report or
completed interim review;

•

Changes in control of the issuer;

652

See Rule 257(c).

653

As discussed below, disclosure pursuant to this requirement is limited to the entry into or
termination of material definitive agreements resulting in fundamental changes in the nature of an
issuer’s business. More generally, a fundamental change in the nature of an issuer’s business
includes major and substantial changes in the issuer’s business or plan of operations or changes
reasonably expected to result in such changes, such as significant acquisitions or dispositions, or
the entry into, or termination of, a material definitive agreement that has or will result in major and
substantial changes to the nature of an issuer’s business or plan of operations.

174

•

Departure of the principal executive officer, principal financial officer, or
principal accounting officer; and

•

Unregistered sales of 10% or more of outstanding equity securities.

Additionally, as proposed, Item 9 of final Form 1-U contains provisions for disclosing
other events not directly required of issuers in the form. As noted above in the context of
suggestions by commenters to require or permit quarterly reporting by issuers, 654 issuers
that elect to provide relevant information to the market on, for example, a quarterly basis
may do so pursuant to Item 9 (Other Events) of Form 1-U. 655
Notwithstanding the view of some commenters, 656 we believe that Form 1-U
should be required of all Tier 2 issuers, including smaller issuers. We believe that, on
balance, the benefit of requiring a uniform base level of disclosure to investors of current
event reporting for all issuers in Tier 2 offerings outweighs any potential additional
compliance cost to smaller issuers. Additionally, given the inclusion of only the most
significant events in the list of disclosable current events on Form 1-U, we do not
anticipate that issuers, particularly smaller issuers, will on average be required to file
many reports in this regard.
In a change from the proposed rules, and consistent with the suggestions of
commenters, 657 the final rules increase the threshold below which an issuer need not
report unregistered sales of equity securities pursuant to Item 8 of Form 1-U from 5% to
654

See fn. 639 and 604 above.

655

An issuer seeking to, for example, report information that satisfies, and on a frequency that
accords with, the requirements of Exchange Act Rule 15c2-11(a)(5) and (g) or Securities Act
Rule 144A(d)(4) may do so pursuant to Item 9 of Form 1-U.

656

ABA BLS Letter; Milken Institute Letter.

657

ABA Letter; MoFo Letter.

175

10% of the number of shares outstanding of the class of equity securities sold. We
believe that this increase in the threshold below which an issuer would not be required to
report such sales remains consistent with our general approach to the final rules for
Form 1-U—namely, that Form 1-U should reflect the most significant or substantial
events that an issuer may experience in the interim period between the filing of the
required periodic reports.
We are not amending Item 1 of Form 1-U to alter the use of the term
“fundamental change,” as suggested by some commenters. 658 We are, however, revising
Instruction 2 to Item 1 to make clear that the transactions described therein are deemed to
be “fundamental changes” solely for purposes of Item 1 of Form 1-U and should not be
read to influence the definition of that term in other contexts. 659 Item 1 of Form 1-U is
meant to require issuers to disclose material definitive agreements, including agreements
to acquire other entities, which result or would reasonably be expected to result in
fundamental changes to the nature of the issuer’s business or plan of operations. As
Instruction 2 to Item 1 indicates, certain transactions are deemed to involve fundamental
changes, and disclosure of these transactions, as prescribed by Item 1 is required.
Consistent with the suggestion of one commenter, 660 we are narrowing from the proposed
rules the applicability of Instruction 2(a) so that an acquisition transaction will only result
in a fundamental change for these purposes if the purchase price, as defined by U.S.
GAAP and IFRS, exceeds 50% of the total consolidated assets of the issuer as of the end

658

See E&Y Letter; see also ABA BLS Letter; Canaccord Letter.

659

Item 1(d) to Form 1-U.

660

E&Y Letter.

176

of the most recently completed fiscal year. 661 We believe that this is consistent with our
general goal of only requiring disclosure of significant and substantial matters that may
affect an issuer’s business or plan of operations. We believe that this requirement is
appropriately tailored for the types of issuers likely to conduct Tier 2 offerings by
providing them with important flexibility as to the determination of a “fundamental
change,” while providing clear guidance that certain transactions will always trigger
disclosure under Item 1.
On a related point, we continue to believe, despite the suggestions of some
commenters, 662 that a fundamental change standard for some of the disclosure
requirements in Form 1-U is a more appropriately tailored standard for Tier 2 issuers than
a broader materiality standard. A fundamental (as opposed to a material) change to the
nature of an issuer’s business includes major and substantial changes to the issuer’s
business or plan of operations or changes reasonably expected to result in such
changes. 663 The final rules reflect our belief that, on balance, Tier 2 issuers should only
be required make disclosures in Form 1-U that reflect major and substantial changes to
business plans or operations, as opposed to material events that are otherwise reportable
in their periodic reports. Moreover, we do not believe that a fundamental change
standard will cause confusion or raise concerns as to the applicability of other standards
applicable in the anti-fraud provisions of the federal securities laws.

661

Instruction(s) 2(b)-(c) to Item 1 of Form 1-U are adopted, as proposed.

662

E&Y Letter; Massachusetts Letter 2; NASAA Letter 2; WDFI Letter.

663

See Instruction 2(a) to Item 1 for the circumstances when an acquisition transaction would be
deemed to trigger a fundamental change for purposes of Form 1-U.

177

Additionally, we note that Item 6 of Form 1-K and Item 2 of Form 1-SA permit
issuers to disclose any information required to be disclosed under Form 1-U, but not so
reported. For example, if an event occurs that would, under normal circumstances,
require an issuer to file a Form 1-U within four business days, but such issuer is due to
file either its annual or semiannual report within that period, then the issuer may instead
report such information in its periodic report.
Finally, contrary to the suggestions of some commenters, 664 we continue to
believe that the requirement to report unregistered sales of securities in Item 8 of
Form 1-U will provide investors with valuable current information as to significant
capital raising events by the issuer and should be disclosed in a timely manner to the
market. We therefore retain this disclosure requirement in the final rules. 665
As adopted, Form 1-U must be filed within four business days after the
occurrence of any of the triggering events, and, where applicable, will permit issuers to
incorporate by reference certain information previously filed on EDGAR. 666
Notwithstanding the suggestions of some commenters, 667 we believe that requiring
issuers to file the form within four business days, as opposed to fifteen business days, is
appropriate in an ongoing reporting regime that otherwise only requires issuers to provide
annual and semiannual reports. Further, we are concerned that extending the filing
deadline for Form 1-U reports would make the reporting of disclosable events no longer
664

ABA BLS Letter; MoFo Letter.

665

Item 8 to Form 1-U. We have also clarified in Item 8(b) that only periodic reports that contain
disclosure regarding unregistered sales of equity securities will reset the five percent reporting
threshold for unregistered sales of securities, rather than any periodic report.

666

General Instruction D. to Form 1-U. The hyperlink to EDGAR need only be active at the time of
filing of the Form 1-U. Cf. Securities Act Rule 411(c) and Exchange Act Rule 12b-32.

667

ABA BLS Letter; E&Y Letter; Milken Institute Letter.

178

“current.” We are therefore adopting the timing requirements, as proposed.
Additionally, in a change from the proposed rules, the final rules do not limit the
availability of incorporation by reference to information previously filed pursuant to
Regulation A. We believe that this change will continue to facilitate the provision of
required information to investors, while taking a consistent approach to information
previously provided to the Commission and publicly available on EDGAR.
Additionally, consistent with the changes made to Form 1-K and Form 1-SA and
suggestions of at least one commenter, 668 Form 1-U encourages issuers to cross-reference
items within the form, where applicable. 669 Further, in order to avoid incorporation by
reference to stale information without requiring the latest version of the document to be
filed, Form 1-U indicates that, if any substantive modification has occurred in the text of
any document incorporated by reference since such document was filed, the issuer must
file with the reference a statement containing the text and date of such modification. 670 A
manually signed copy of the Form 1-U must be executed by the issuer and related
signatories before or at the time of filing and retained by the issuer for a period of five
years. 671 Issuers are required to produce the manually signed copy to the Commission,
upon request. 672 Any amendments to the Form 1-U must comply with the requirements
of the applicable items, and be filed under cover of Form 1-U/A. 673
668

PwC Letter.

669

General Instruction D. to Form 1-U. We have clarified, however, that like with Form 1-A, they
may not add a cross-reference within any financial statements that may be included to disclosures
elsewhere.

670

Id.

671

See General Instruction C to proposed Form 1-U.

672

Id.

673

Rule 257(c).

179

(4)

Special Financial Reports on Form 1-K and Form 1-SA

We did not receive any comment on the proposed provisions for special financial
reports and are adopting them as proposed with one minor clarifying change. This report
serves to close lengthy gaps in financial reporting between the financial statements
included in Form 1-A and the issuer’s first periodic report due after qualification of the
offering statement. Where applicable, issuers conducting Tier 2 offerings must provide
special financial reports analogous to those required under Exchange Act Rule 15d-2. 674
The special financial report requires audited financial statements for the issuer’s most
recent fiscal year (or for the life of the issuer if less than a full fiscal year) to be filed not
later than 120 calendar days after qualification of the offering statement if the offering
statement does not include such financial statements. 675 The special financial report
requires semiannual financial statements for the first six months of the issuer’s fiscal
year, which may be unaudited, to be filed 90 calendar days after qualification of the
offering statement if the offering statement does not include such financial statements and
the offering statement was qualified in the second half of the issuer’s current fiscal
year. 676 The special financial report must be filed under cover of Form 1-K if it includes
audited year end financial statements and under cover of Form 1-SA if it includes
semiannual financial statements for the first six months of the issuer’s fiscal year. 677 The
financial statement and auditing requirements must follow the requirements of those

674

17 CFR 240.15d-2.

675

Rule 257(b)(2)(ii). As adopted, we are revising Rule 257(b)(2)(ii) to reference the fiscal year or
other period specified in Rule 257(b)(2)(i)(A), in order to avoid potential confusion about which
most recent fiscal year is covered.

676

Id.

677

Id.

180

forms, and the issuer must indicate on the front page of the applicable form that only
financial statements are included. 678
(5)

Reporting by Successor Issuers

We did not receive any comment on reporting by successor issuers, and we are
adopting the proposed rules without change. Where in connection with a succession by
merger, consolidation, exchange of securities, acquisition of assets, or otherwise,
securities of an issuer that is not subject to the reporting requirements of Regulation A are
issued to the holders of any class of securities of an issuer that is subject to ongoing
reporting under Tier 2, the issuer succeeding to that class of securities must continue to
file the reports required for Tier 2 offerings on the same basis as would have been
required of the original Tier 2 issuer. 679 The successor issuer may suspend or terminate
its reporting obligations on the same basis as the original issuer under Rule 257(d). 680
2.

Exchange Act Rule 15c2-11 and Other Implications of Ongoing
Reporting under Regulation A

Exchange Act Rule 15c2-11 governs broker-dealers’ publication of quotations for
securities in a quotation medium other than a national securities exchange. 681 The
Commission adopted Rule 15c2-11 in 1971 to prevent fraudulent and manipulative
trading schemes that had arisen in connection with the distribution and trading of certain
unregistered securities. 682 The rule prohibits broker-dealers from publishing quotations

678

See General Instruction A.(3) to Form 1-K and General Instruction A.(3) to Form 1-SA.

679

See Rule 257(b)(5).

680

See Section II.E.4. below for a discussion of the suspension or termination of disclosure
obligations.

681

17 CFR 240.15c2-11.

682

See Rel. No. 34-39670 (Feb. 17, 1998) (Publication or Submission of Quotations Without
Specified Information) (describing Rel. No. 34-9310 (Sept. 13, 1971) [36 FR 18641]). See 17

181

(or submitting quotations for publication) in a “quotation medium” for covered
over-the-counter securities without first reviewing basic information about the issuer,
subject to certain exceptions. 683 A broker-dealer also must have a reasonable basis for
believing that the issuer information is accurate in all material respects and that it was
obtained from a reliable source. 684
A broker-dealer can satisfy its obligations under Rule 15c2-11 if it has reviewed
and maintained in its records certain specified information. The particular information
that is required by the rule varies depending on the nature of the issuer and includes,
among other things:
•

for an issuer that has filed a registration statement under the Securities Act, a
copy of the prospectus;

•

for an issuer that has filed an offering statement under the Securities Act
pursuant to Regulation A, a copy of the offering circular; or

•

for an issuer subject to ongoing reporting under Sections 13 or 15(d) of the
Exchange Act, the issuer's most recent annual report and any quarterly or
current reports filed thereafter. 685

CFR 240.15c2-11(e)(1) (defining quotation medium as any “interdealer quotation system” or any
publication or electronic communications network or other device which is used by brokers or
dealers to make known to others their interest in transactions in any security, including offers to
buy or sell at a stated price or otherwise, or invitations of offers to buy or sell).
683

17 CFR 240.15c2-11(a); See also Rel. No. 34-29094 (April 17, 1991) [56 FR 19148].

684

See 17 CFR 240.15c2-11 (Preliminary Note).

685

A broker-dealer can also satisfy its review requirements under Rule 15c2-11 by reviewing certain
information published pursuant to a Rule 12g3-2(b) exemption for foreign private issuers that
claim the registration exemption or information specified in Rule 15c2-11(a)(5) for non-reporting
issuers.

182

a.

Proposed Rules

As proposed, the ongoing reports for Tier 2 offerings under Regulation A, which
would update the narrative and financial statement disclosures previously provided in
Form 1-A on an annual and semiannual basis, with additional provisions for current
reporting, would satisfy a broker-dealer’s obligations under Rule 15c2-11 to review and
maintain records of basic information about an issuer and its securities. In this regard, we
proposed to amend Rule 15c2-11 to permit an issuer’s ongoing reports filed in a Tier 2
offering under Regulation A to satisfy a broker-dealer’s obligations to review specified
information about an issuer and its security before publishing a quotation for a security
(or submitting a quotation for publication) in a quotation medium. 686
We also solicited comment on other potential effects that Tier 2 ongoing reporting
under Regulation A could have under other provisions of the federal securities laws, such
as whether timely ongoing Regulation A reporting under Tier 2 should constitute
“adequate current public information” for purposes of paragraph (c) of Rule 144. 687
Under this provision, issuers are required to make available adequate current public
information about themselves, which, for issuers not subject to Exchange Act reporting,
must include certain information described in Exchange Act Rule 15c2-11(a)(5). 688 We
also solicited comment on whether ongoing Regulation A reporting for Tier 2 offerings

686

In addition, we proposed a technical amendment to Rule 15c2-11 to amend subsection (d)(2)(i) of
the rule to update the outdated reference to “Schedule H of the By-Laws of the National
Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.” which is now known as the “Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, Inc.” and to reflect the correct rule reference.

687

17 CFR 230.144(c).

688

17 CFR 230.144(c)(2); see also 17 CFR 230.15c2-11(a), (g).

183

should satisfy the information requirements of paragraph (d)(4) of Rule 144A. 689 Under
that provision, holders of Rule 144A securities must have the right to obtain from the
issuer, upon request, a very brief statement of the nature of the issuer’s business and the
products and services it offers, the issuer’s most recent balance sheet and profit and loss
and retained earnings statements, and similar financial statements for each of the two
preceding fiscal years, which information must be “reasonably current.” 690
b.

Comments on Proposed Rules

All commenters that addressed Rule 15c2-11 supported amending the rule in the
manner proposed. 691 Some commenters recommended further amending
Rule 15c2-11(g) to provide that an issuer that is current in its Tier 2 obligations would be
deemed to have “reasonably current” financial information, even if its most current
balance sheet is as of a date up to nine months old and it has not provided other updated
information. 692 Most commenters also recommended amending Rule 144(c) to allow for
ongoing reporting under Tier 2 to constitute “adequate current public information.” 693
Other commenters recommended amending Rule 144A(d)(4) to allow for ongoing
reporting under Tier 2 to satisfy the “reasonably current information” requirements of
that rule. 694 Although the proposal did not solicit comment on Rule 144(i), one
689

17 CFR 230.144A(d)(4).

690

Id.

691

ABA BLS Letter; Canaccord Letter; CFIRA Letter 1; KVCF Letter; Milken Institute Letter; MoFo
Letter; Paul Hastings Letter; Public Startup Co. Letter 1; REISA Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co
Letter.

692

ABA BLS Letter; Canaccord Letter; Milken Institute Letter; MoFo Letter.

693

ABA BLS Letter; Canaccord Letter; CFIRA Letter 1; McCarter & English Letter; Paul Hastings
Letter; KVCF Letter; Milken Institute Letter; Richardson Patel Letter; REISA Letter; WR
Hambrecht + Co Letter.

694

ABA BLS Letter; Canaccord Letter; Milken Institute Letter; MoFo Letter.

184

commenter recommended amending this rule to allow former shell companies to rely on
Rule 144 if they have been current in their ongoing reporting under Regulation A for a
certain period of time and without having to file a Form 10. 695 One commenter also
supported allowing use of the Rule 144 safe harbor for former shell companies that were
not previously registered under the Exchange Act and that are now selling securities
under Regulation A. 696 Another commenter requested that the Commission limit the
prohibitions on reliance on Rule 144 only to Exchange Act registered issuers. 697
c.

Final Rules

We are adopting final rules for Regulation A that, as proposed, amend Exchange
Act Rule 15c2-11(a) so that an issuer’s ongoing reports filed under Tier 2 will satisfy the
specified information about an issuer and its security that a broker-dealer must review
before publishing a quotation for a security (or submitting a quotation for publication) in
a quotation medium. In addition, we are adopting, as proposed, a technical amendment to
Rule 15c2-11 to amend subsection (d)(2)(i) of the rule to update the outdated reference to
“Schedule H of the By-Laws of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.”
which is now known as the “Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.” and to reflect
the correct rule reference.
We are not following the suggestions of some commenters that we adopt
provisions in the final rules so that Tier 2 ongoing reports will satisfy the current
information requirements of Rule 144 and Rule 144A for the entirety of an issuer’s fiscal

695

McCarter & English Letter.

696

Public Startup Co. Letter 1.

697

Letter from Jason Coombs, Co-Founder and CEO, Public Startup Company, Inc., March 24, 2014
(“Public Startup Co. Letter 2”).

185

year. While commenters were generally supportive, we do not believe that the frequency
of the required Tier 2 ongoing reporting merits a broad determination that such reports
will constitute “adequate public information” or “reasonably current information” on a
year-round basis. On the contrary, quarterly reporting is an integral part of the resale safe
harbors provided for in Rule 144 and Rule 144A that contemplate the provision of
ongoing and continuous information. 698 While the semiannual reporting required under
the final rules for Tier 2 offerings will result in issuers only having “reasonably current
information” and “adequate current public information” for the portions of the year
during which the financial statements of such issuers continue to satisfy the respective
rules, 699 we note that issuers may voluntarily submit on Form 1-U quarterly financial
statements or other information necessary to satisfy the respective rule requirements. 700
In such instances, and provided that the financial statements otherwise meet the financial
statement requirements of Form 1-SA, such voluntarily provided quarterly information
could satisfy the “reasonably current information” and “adequate current public
information” requirements of Rule 144 and Rule 144A. An issuer that is therefore
current in its semiannual reporting required under the rules and voluntarily provides
quarterly financial statements on Form 1-U will have provided reasonably current and
adequate current public information for the entirety of such year under Rule 144 and
Rule 144A.

698

See, e.g., Rel. No. 33-6099 (Aug. 2, 1979) (Question 20). See also Section 13(a) of the Exchange
Act, which contemplates, but does not prescribe, reasonably current information in the context of
annual and quarterly reporting. 15 U.S.C. 78m(a).

699

See Securities Act Rule 144(c)(2); Securities Act Rule 144A(d)(4)(ii);
Exchange Act Rule 15c2-11(a) and Rule 15c2-11(g).

700

See Item 9 of Form 1-U; see also Section II.E.1.c(3). and fn. 655 above.

186

3.

Exchange Act Registration of Regulation A Securities

Under Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act, an issuer that has had a Securities Act
registration statement declared effective must comply with the periodic reporting
requirements of the Exchange Act. 701 Qualification of a Regulation A offering statement
does not have the same effect. An issuer of Regulation A securities would not take on
Exchange Act reporting obligations unless it separately registered a class of securities
under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, or conducted a registered public offering. 702
An issuer registering a class of securities under Section 12 of the Exchange Act
must file either a Form 10 703 or Form 8-A 704 with the Commission. Form 10 is the
general form for Exchange Act registration, while Form 8-A is a short-form registration
statement. An issuer must use a Form 10 if, at the time it files its registration statement,
it is not already subject to a Section 13 or Section 15(d) reporting obligation. An issuer
may use Form 8-A if it is already subject to the provisions of either Section 13 or
Section 15(d). Additionally, when an issuer that is not already subject to the provisions
of either Section 13 or 15(d) plans to list its securities on a national securities exchange
contemporaneously with the effectiveness of a Securities Act registration statement, the
Commission staff will not object if that issuer files a Form 8-A in lieu of a Form 10 in

701

While issuers with a Section 15(d) reporting obligation are required to file the same periodic
reports as issuers that have registered a class of securities under Section 12, Section 15(d)
reporting issuers are not subject to additional Exchange Act obligations (e.g., proxy rules, shortswing profit rules, and beneficial ownership reporting) that apply to Exchange Act registrants.

702

See also Section II.B.6. above for a discussion of the conditional exemption from Section 12(g)
adopted in the final rules today.

703

17 CFR 249.210. Foreign private issuers must file a Form 20-F, 17 CFR 249.220f, or, where
available, a Form 8-A.

704

17 CFR 249.208a.

187

order to avoid having the issuer restate the contents of its Securities Act registration
statement in its Exchange Act registration statement. 705
a.

Proposed Rules

As proposed, issuers conducting offerings under Regulation A that seek to list
their securities on a national securities exchange or otherwise register a class of securities
under the Exchange Act would be required to file a registration statement on Form 10.
We solicited comment, however, on whether we should provide a simplified means for
Regulation A issuers to register a class of securities under the Exchange Act, for
example, by permitting such issuers to file a Form 8-A rather than a Form 10 in
conjunction with, or following, the qualification of a Regulation A offering statement on
Form 1-A.
We also invited comment on ways to facilitate secondary market trading in the
securities of Regulation A issuers, such as by encouraging the development of “venture
exchanges” or other trading venues that are focused on attracting such issuers.
b.

Comments on Proposed Rules

Many commenters recommended that Regulation A issuers be allowed to use
Form 8-A to register a class of securities under the Exchange Act in Tier 2 offerings. 706
Some of these commenters limited their recommendation to when the issuer follows the
requirements of Part I of Form S-1 in its offering circular. 707 Separately, three
705

See Rel. No. 34-38850 (Sept. 2, 1997) [62 FR 39755], at 39757 (“[A]n issuer registering an initial
public offering will be permitted to use Form 8-A even though it will not be subject to reporting
until after the effectiveness of that Securities Act registration statement.”).

706

ABA BLS Letter; Canaccord Letter; CFIRA Letter 1; CFIRA Letter 2; Fallbrook Technologies
Letter; Frutkin Law Letter; McCarter & English Letter; Milken Institute Letter; MoFo Letter; OTC
Markets Letter; Paul Hastings Letter; Richardson Patel Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co Letter.

707

ABA BLS Letter; CFIRA Letter 1; WR Hambrecht + Co Letter.

188

commenters recommended allowing issuers to use a “super” Form 8-A that would require
issuers to include any disclosure that is required in a Form 10, but is not included in the
chosen offering circular format under Form 1-A. 708 Several commenters suggested
allowing issuers to use a Form 10 that would go effective immediately as an alternative to
filing a Form 8-A. 709 This process could be used to register securities under the
Exchange Act when a simultaneous exchange listing was not contemplated. Other
commenters recommended limiting the use of Form 8-A to situations contemporaneous
with qualification of an offering statement, 710 within 12 months of qualification, 711 or
after a brief time period after an offering statement is qualified. 712 Separately, two
commenters recommended that Regulation A issuers that become Exchange Act
reporting companies be considered “emerging growth companies.” 713 One commenter
recommended allowing issuers to use Form 8-A but to continue using Regulation A
reports until its non-affiliate market capitalization reached $250 million. 714
Two commenters encouraged the Commission to foster the development of
venture exchanges on which Regulation A securities could be traded, 715 while another
commenter largely opposed the creation of venture exchanges. 716

708

Canaccord Letter; Milken Institute Letter; MoFo Letter.

709

ABA BLS Letter; Canaccord Letter; MoFo Letter.

710

Milken Institute Letter.

711

Frutkin Law Letter; Richardson Patel Letter.

712

McCarter & English Letter.

713

ABA BLS Letter; MoFo Letter.

714

Paul Hastings Letter.

715

Heritage Letter; SBIA Letter.

716

OTC Markets Letter.

189

c.

Final Rules

In the final rules, and consistent with the views of many commenters, 717 we are
simplifying Exchange Act registration in connection with Regulation A offerings
conducted pursuant to Tier 2 so that issuers wishing to register a class of Regulation A
securities under the Exchange Act may do so by filing a Form 8-A in conjunction with
the qualification of a Form 1-A. Only issuers that follow Part I of Form S-1 or the
Form S-11 disclosure model in the offering circular will be permitted to use Form 8-A. 718
An issuer registering a class of securities under the Exchange Act concurrently with the
qualification of a Regulation A offering statement will become an Exchange Act
reporting company upon effectiveness of the Form 8-A and, if applicable, its obligation
to file ongoing reports under Regulation A will be suspended for the duration of the
resulting reporting obligation under Section 13 of the Exchange Act. 719 While some
commenters suggested that we permit issuers to rely on the Form 8-A to register a class
of securities for up to 12 months following the qualification of an offering statement, we
believe limiting short form registration to situations in which an offering statement is
being concurrently qualified will help ensure that the disclosures incorporated by
reference into the Form 8-A, including financial statements contained in the offering
statement are current. 720 The final rules would not, however, prevent an issuer from

717

See fn. 706 above.

718

See Form 8-A, General Instructions A(c).

719

As discussed more fully in in Section II.E.4. below, a Tier 2 issuer may terminate its Regulation A
ongoing disclosure obligation when it is no longer subject to the ongoing reporting requirements
of Section 13 of the Exchange Act. See also Rule 257(e).

720

In order to ensure that registration on Form 8-A is limited to a concurrently qualified Regulation A
offering statement, the amendments to Form 8-A expressly limit the use of the form to instances
where the filing of the Form 8-A and, where applicable, the receipt by the Commission of

190

registering a class of securities under the Exchange Act on Form 8-A concurrent with the
re-qualification of a previously qualified offering statement.
We recognize that Exchange Act reporting requires more comprehensive ongoing
reporting than the Regulation A disclosure regime, which is why facilitating issuers’
entrance into the Exchange Act reporting system on Form 8-A concurrent with the
qualification of a Regulation A offering statement will benefit investors. At a minimum,
issuers pursuing this route to exchange listing must meet listing standards of, and be
certified by, the exchange before the Form 8-A will be declared effective. In order to be
approved for listing on an exchange, issuers generally must meet certain size, financial,
minimum securities distribution (or liquidity), and corporate governance criteria. 721
Additionally, in order to maintain listing on an exchange, issuers must maintain certain
qualitative and quantitative continued listing standards. 722 Therefore, in addition to the
provision of ongoing Exchange Act reports, investors will benefit from the issuer’s
satisfaction of the exchange’s initial and ongoing listing standards, and may benefit from
greater liquidity for their shares as a result.
As suggested by commenters, we believe that our accommodation should be
limited to instances where an issuer provides disclosure in Part II of Form 1-A that
follows Part I of Form S-1 or Form S-11, instead of the Offering Circular format. While
certification from the national securities exchange listed on the form occur within five calendar
days after the qualification of the Regulation A offering statement.
721

See, e.g., Initial Listing Guide for the NASDQAQ Stock Market, available at:
https://listingcenter.nasdaq.com/assets/initialguide.pdf; U.S. Listing Standards for the New York
Stock Exchange (NYSE), available at:
https://www.nyse.com/publicdocs/nyse/listing/NYSE%20_Initial_Listing_Standards_Summary.pd
f.

722

See, e.g., Continued Listing Guide for the NASDQAQ Stock Market, available at:
https://listingcenter.nasdaq.com/assets/continuedguide.pdf; Continued Listing Standards for the
New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), available at: https://www.nyse.com/get-started/reference.

191

all formats require extensive disclosure that, with the exception of item numbering, is
similar in many respects, we believe that an issuer entering Exchange Act reporting
should provide disclosure in a manner that is generally consistent with the requirements
of issuers entering the Exchange Act reporting regime through registered offerings. 723 In
this regard, we note that issuers qualifying an offering statement that follows Part I of
Form S-1 or Form S-11 will, however, be required to follow the financial statement
requirements of Part F/S of Form 1-A. For purposes of concurrent Exchange Act
registration, the financial statements included in Form 1-A must be audited in accordance
with the standards of the PCAOB by a PCAOB-registered auditor that is independent
pursuant to Article 2 of Regulation S-X. 724 After effectiveness of the Form 8-A, they
will be subject to Exchange Act reporting and compliance with the financial statement
requirements of Exchange Act reporting companies.
Consistent with the suggestion of commenters, 725 we agree that issuers entering
Exchange Act reporting under a qualified Regulation A offering statement and Form 8-A
will be considered “emerging growth companies” to the extent the issuers otherwise
qualify for such status. Issuers should base status determinations on the definition of an
emerging growth company as it appears in the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. 726
As noted above, the Proposing Release sought comment on whether we should
consider encouraging the development of venture exchanges or other trading venues to
723

See Section II.C.3.b(2)(c). above for a description of the financial statement requirements.

724

See General Instruction A.(a) to Form 8-A.

725

ABA BLS Letter; MoFo Letter.

726

Under Section 2(a)(19) of the Securities Act, an “emerging growth company” is defined as, among
other things, an issuer that had total annual gross revenues of less than $1 billion during its most
recently completed fiscal year. 15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(19). See also Section 3(a)(80) of the Exchange
Act (which repeats the same definition). 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(80).

192

facilitate the secondary market trading of Regulation A securities. We are considering
venture exchanges as a way to provide liquidity for smaller issuers, and are
contemplating their use for Regulation A securities as part of that consideration.
4.

Exit Report on Form 1-Z
a.

Proposed Rules
(1)

Summary Information on Terminated or Completed
Offerings

As discussed in Section II.E.1. above, we proposed to rescind Form 2-A but to
continue to require Regulation A issuers to file the information generally disclosed in
Form 2-A with the Commission electronically on EDGAR. Consistent with the related
portion of proposed Form 1-K, 727 we proposed to convert the Form 2-A information into
an online XML-based fillable form with indicator boxes or buttons and text boxes to be
filed electronically with the Commission as Part I of proposed Form 1-Z (exit report).
Issuers conducting Tier 1 offerings would be required to provide this information on
Form 1-Z not later 30 calendar days after termination or completion of the offering, while
issuers conducting Tier 2 offerings would be required to provide this information on
Form 1-Z at the time of filing the exit report, if not previously provided on Form 1-K as
part of their annual report. 728 As proposed, the summary offering information disclosed
on Form 1-Z would be publicly available on EDGAR (but not otherwise required to be
distributed to investors) and would include the date the offering was qualified and
commenced, the number of securities qualified, the number of securities sold in the
727

See also discussion in Section II.C.1. (Electronic Filing; Delivery Requirements) and
Section II.C.3.a. (Part I (Notification)) above.

728

See Section II.E.1. above for a discussion of the requirements for proposed Form 1-K.

193

offering, the price of the securities, any fees associated with the offering, and the net
proceeds to the issuer.
(2)

Termination or Suspension of Tier 2 Disclosure
Obligations

We further proposed to permit a Tier 2 issuer that has filed all ongoing reports
required by Regulation A for the shorter of (1) the period since the issuer became subject
to such reporting obligation or (2) its most recent three fiscal years and the portion of the
current year preceding the date of filing Form 1-Z to immediately suspend its ongoing
reporting obligation under Regulation A at any time after completing reporting for the
fiscal year in which the offering statement was qualified, if the securities of each class to
which the offering statement relates are held of record by fewer than 300 persons and
offers or sales made in reliance on a qualified offering statement are not ongoing. 729 In
such circumstances, an issuer’s obligation to continue to file ongoing reports in a Tier 2
offering under Regulation A would be suspended immediately upon the filing of a notice
with the Commission on Part II of proposed Form 1-Z. A manually signed copy of the
Form 1-Z would have to be executed by the issuer and related signatories before or at the
time of filing and retained by the issuer for a period of five years. 730 Issuers would be
required to produce the manually signed copy to the Commission, upon request. 731
We further proposed that issuers’ obligations to file ongoing reports in a Tier 2
offering under Regulation A would be automatically suspended upon registration of a
class of securities under Section 12 of the Exchange Act or effectiveness of a registration
729

See proposed Rule 257(d)(2).

730

See Instruction to proposed Form 1-Z.

731

Id.

194

statement under the Securities Act, such that Exchange Act reporting obligations would
always supersede ongoing reporting obligations under Regulation A. If an issuer
terminates or suspends its reporting obligations under the Exchange Act and the issuer is
eligible to suspend its Regulation A reporting obligation by filing a Form 1-Z at that time,
the ongoing reporting obligations would terminate automatically and no Form 1-Z filing
would be required to terminate the issuer’s Regulation A reporting obligation. If the
issuer is not eligible to file a Form 1-Z at that time, it would need to recommence its
Regulation A reporting with a report covering any financial period not completely
covered by an effective registration statement or filed Exchange Act report. 732
b.

Final Rules
(1)

Summary Information on Terminated or Completed
Offerings

The single commenter on this issue approved of the proposed requirement to file
summary information after the termination or completion of a Regulation A offering
under both tiers. 733 We are adopting this requirement without changes.
(2)

Termination or Suspension of Tier 2 Disclosure
Obligations

We are adopting, with a change from the proposal, final rules that will permit
issuers that conduct a Tier 2 offering to terminate or suspend their ongoing reporting
obligations on a basis similar to the provisions that allow issuers to suspend their ongoing

732

See proposed Rule 257(d)(1) and (e).

733

CFA Institute Letter.

195

reporting obligations under Section 13 and Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. 734 As
proposed, the final rules permit a Tier 2 issuer that has filed all reports required by
Regulation A for the shorter of: (1) the period since the issuer became subject to such
reporting obligation, or (2) its most recent three fiscal years and the portion of the current
year preceding the date of filing Form 1-Z to immediately suspend its ongoing reporting
obligation under Regulation A at any time after completing reporting for the fiscal year in
which the offering statement was qualified, if the securities of each class to which the
offering statement relates are held of record by fewer than 300 persons and offers or sales
made in reliance on a qualified Tier 2 offering statement are not ongoing. 735 In a change
from the proposal, in order to be consistent with Title VI of the JOBS Act, the final rules
permit banks or bank holding companies 736 to immediately suspend their ongoing
reporting obligation under Regulation A at any time after completing reporting for the
fiscal year in which the offering statement was qualified, if the securities of each class to
which the offering statement relates are held of record by fewer than 1,200 persons,
instead of 300 persons, and offers or sales made in reliance on a qualified Tier 2 offering
statement are not ongoing. 737 As proposed, an issuer’s obligation to continue to file

734

See Exchange Act Section 15(d), 15 U.S.C. 78o(d); Exchange Act Rule 12h-3, 17 CFR 240.12h-3.

735

Rule 257(d)(2).

736

The Commission recently proposed changes to its rules regarding Exchange Act registration to
implement Title V and Title VI of the JOBS Act. See Rel. No. 33-9693 (Dec. 18, 2014) [79 FR
78343]. These proposed changes would, among other things, apply the registration thresholds
applicable to banks and bank holding companies, as set forth in Section 12(g) of the Exchange
Act, to savings and loan holding companies. Should we adopt this provision in the final rules for
Section 12(g), we would anticipate making a corresponding change to the termination provisions
of Rule 257(d).

737

Rule 257(d)(2). The final rules, as they apply to the number of record holders of other types of
issuers, are adopted without changes from the proposal. Although Rule 257(d)(2) relies on the
definition of “held of record” in Rule 12g5-1, issuers seeking to terminate or suspend their Tier 2

196

ongoing reports in a Tier 2 offering under Regulation A will be suspended immediately
upon the filing of a notice to the Commission on Part II of proposed Form 1-Z. 738 As
proposed, a manually signed copy of the Form 1-Z must be executed by the issuer and
related signatories before or at the time of filing and retained by the issuer for a period of
five years. 739 Issuers must produce the manually signed copy to the Commission, upon
request. 740
We otherwise adopt the proposed rules for the termination or suspension of a
Tier 2 ongoing reporting obligation as proposed and without changes.
F.

Insignificant Deviations from a Term, Condition or Requirement
We did not propose any changes to the existing insignificant deviation provisions

of Rule 260. Rule 260 provides that certain insignificant deviations from a term,
condition or requirement of Regulation A will not result in the issuer’s loss of the
exemption from registration under Section 5 of the Securities Act. 741 The provisions of
Regulation A regarding issuer eligibility, offering limits, offers, and continuous or
delayed offerings of Regulation A are deemed to be significant to the offering as a whole,
and any deviations from these provisions result in the issuer’s loss of the exemption.

ongoing disclosure obligations are specifically excluded from relying on the amendment to such
definition, which exclude securities issued in Tier 2 offerings. See Rule 12g5-1(a)(7) and Section
II.B.6 above.
738

Id. In this regard, we have clarified that the Commission may only deny a Form 1-Z filing if the
issuer is ineligible to use the form. See Rule 257(d)

739

See Instruction to Form 1-Z.

740

Id.

741

17 CFR 230.260.

197

One commenter generally supported the concept of allowing for insignificant
deviations from the rules without the loss of the exemption. 742 This commenter
recommended that the Commission give notice of violations and allow companies to have
an opportunity to cure any such violation. The commenter also recommended imposing
lesser sanctions, such as fines, if less significant violations could not be cured. Another
commenter recommended including deviations from the prohibitions on the timing of
sales and the amounts sold to investors on the list of matters deemed significant in
proposed Rule 260, noting that, in its view, it would be difficult for issuers to show a
good faith and reasonable attempt was made to comply with the requirements of
Rule 251(d)(2). 743 This commenter noted that issuers, investors and state regulators need
clear boundaries to know what actions will disqualify an offering from exemption and
thus, with respect to the proposed provisions for Tier 2 offerings, would result in a loss of
state preemption.
The final rules maintain the existing provisions for insignificant deviations, as
proposed. Under the final rules, a failure to comply with a term, condition or requirement
of Regulation A will not result in the loss of the exemption for any offer or sale to a
particular individual or entity, if the person relying on the exemption establishes that:
(1) The failure to comply did not pertain to a term, condition or requirement
directly intended to protect that particular individual or entity;
(2) The failure to comply was insignificant with respect to the offering as a
whole, provided that any failure to comply with the offering limitations, issuer eligibility

742

Heritage Letter.

743

MCS Letter.

198

criteria, or requirements for offers or continuous or delayed offerings will be deemed to
be significant to the offering as a whole; and
(3) A good faith and reasonable attempt was made to comply with all applicable
terms, conditions and requirements of Regulation A. 744
We believe that provisions for insignificant deviations serve an important function
by allowing for certain errors that can occur in the offering process, while clearly
delineating those provisions from which an issuer may not deviate. We believe the
current provisions provide assurances to investors that issuers will not be able to deviate
from certain fundamental requirements in the rules and avoid undue hardship that could
befall issuers for inadvertent errors, such as loss of the exemption and, with respect to
Tier 2 offerings, the loss of preemption of state securities law registration and
qualification requirements. We are not expanding the list of provisions from which an
issuer may not deviate. We note that whether a deviation from the requirements would
be significant to the offering as a whole would depend on the facts and circumstances
related to the offering and the deviation. We also note that in certain situations, such as
in the event of pre-qualification sales, it may be difficult for issuers to establish a good
faith attempt at compliance. In such circumstances, an issuer would not be able to rely on
the provision.
G.

Bad Actor Disqualification
1.

Proposed Rules

Under Securities Act Section 3(b)(2)(G)(ii), the Commission has discretion to
issue rules disqualifying certain felons and other ‘bad actors’ from using amended
744

Rule 260.

199

Regulation A. Such rules, if adopted, must be “substantially similar” to those adopted to
implement Section 926 of the Dodd-Frank Act, which requires the Commission to adopt
disqualification rules for securities offerings under Rule 506 of Regulation D. The
Commission adopted the disqualification provisions required by Section 926 in
Rule 506(d) together with a related disclosure requirement in Rule 506(e) on July 10,
2013. 745
We proposed amendments to Regulation A’s bad actor disqualification provisions
that would make those provisions substantially similar to those adopted under Rule 506
of Regulation D. We also sought comment on the proposed disqualification rules and the
categories of persons and types of events covered by the proposed rules. Additionally,
we sought comment more broadly on the interpretation of the phrase “voting equity
securities,” as it appears in “any beneficial owner of 20% or more of the issuer’s
outstanding voting equity securities, calculated on the basis of voting power,” a category
of covered persons in Rule 506(d) and the proposed disqualification provisions for
Regulation A as well as our proposed rules for securities-based crowdfunding
transactions.
2.

Comments on Proposed Rules

In general, commenters did not oppose the proposed amendments to
Regulation A’s bad actor disqualification rules. Some commenters expressly supported
the proposed rules. 746 Some commenters, however, recommended changes to particular
745

Rel. No. 33-9414 (July 10, 2013) [78 FR 44729]. The Commission proposed rules substantially
similar to those adopted pursuant to Section 926 of the Dodd-Frank Act in the Proposing Release
for securities-based crowdfunding transactions under Title III of the JOBS Act. See Rel. No. 339470, at 284.

746

See, e.g., KVCF Letter; MCS Letter;

200

provisions of the proposal. One commenter recommended revising the look-back periods
for disqualifying events to run from the time of sale, not from the time of filing of the
offering statement as proposed. 747 Another commenter recommended adding final orders
of Canadian provincial regulators to the list of disqualifying events. 748 This commenter
noted that some Canadian provinces have information publicly posted on their websites
that would facilitate the bad actor diligence process. One commenter recommended that
the Commission develop an online bad actor database. 749 Another commenter supported
bad actor provisions as extensive as those under Rule 506(d). 750 Finally, one commenter
recommended defining voting equity securities for purposes of the bad actor
disqualifications provisions using the definition in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 751
3.

Final Rules

We are adopting bad actor disqualification provisions for Regulation A,
substantially as proposed with the exception of one change to further align the final rules
for Regulation A with similar provisions in Rule 506(d). The covered persons and
triggering events in the final rules for Regulation A are substantially the same as the
covered persons and triggering events included in Rule 506(d). 752 The covered persons
include managing members of limited liability companies; compensated solicitors of
investors; underwriters; executive officers and other officers participating in the offering;

747

KVCF Letter.

748

Karr Tuttle Letter.

749

Ladd Letter 2.

750

MCS Letter.

751

ABA BLS Letter (suggesting “voting securities” be deemed securities the holders of which are
presently entitled to vote for the election of directors (or the equivalent)).

752

17 CFR 230.506(d).

201

and beneficial owners of 20% or more of the issuer’s outstanding voting equity securities,
calculated on the basis of voting power. 753 Consistent with the bad actor disqualification
rules under Rule 506(d), the final rules also include two new disqualification triggers not
previously present in Regulation A: (1) final orders and bars of certain state and other
federal regulators, 754 and (2) Commission cease-and-desist orders relating to violations of
scienter-based anti-fraud provisions of the federal securities laws or Section 5 of the
Securities Act. 755 In order to clarify the scope of the term “final order” as it appears in
Rule 262, we are including a definition of that term in Regulation A that is consistent
with the term as it appears in Rule 501(g) of Regulation D. As adopted, a “final order”
shall mean a written directive or declaratory statement issued by a federal or state agency
described in Rule 262(a)(3) under applicable statutory authority that provides for notice
and an opportunity for hearing, which constitutes a final disposition or action by that
federal or state agency. 756 We believe that creating a uniform set of bad actor triggering
events should simplify due diligence, particularly for issuers that may engage in different
types of exempt offerings. For this reason, consistent with the disqualification provisions
of Rule 506(d), the final rules do not include final orders of Canadian provincial
regulators in the list of disqualifying events.
The final disqualification rules in Regulation A also specify that an order must bar
the covered person at the time of filing of the offering statement, as opposed to the
requirement in Rule 506(d) that the order must bar the covered person at the time of the
753

Rule 262(a).

754

Rule 262(a)(3).

755

Rule 262(a)(5).

756

Rule 261(d).

202

relevant sale. 757 This clarification accords with the current provisions of Rule 262 and is
appropriate for Regulation A because there is no filing requirement before the time of
first sale in Rule 506. 758 We are further adopting a reasonable care exception to the
disqualification provisions on a basis consistent with Rule 506(d). 759 Under the final
rules, an issuer will not lose the benefit of the Regulation A exemption if it is able to
show that it did not know, and in the exercise of reasonable care could not have known,
of the existence of a disqualification. 760 As proposed, and consistent with the provisions
of existing Regulation A, the final rules permit issuers that are disqualified from relying
on the exemption to request a waiver of disqualification from the Commission. 761
In the Proposing Release, we solicited comment on the interpretation of the
phrase “voting equity securities,” as it appears in “any beneficial owner of 20% or more
of the issuer’s outstanding voting equity securities, calculated on the basis of voting
power,” a category of covered persons in Rule 506(d) and proposed Rule 262 as well as
our proposed rules for securities-based crowdfunding transactions. Consistent with the
views of at least one commenter, 762 we have reconsidered our initial views on the
interpretation of “voting equity securities.” We believe that it is appropriate to refine our
initial interpretation, 763 as it applies to our bad actor disqualification rules, 764 and create
757

Rule 506(d), 17 CFR 230.506(d).

758

Under Rule 503 of Regulation D, issuers must file a notice of sales on Form D no later than 15
calendar days after the first sale of securities. 17 CFR 230.503(a).

759

See Rule 262(b)(4).

760

Id.

761

Rule 262(b)(2).

762

ABA BLS Letter.

763

When we adopted Rule 506(d), we did not define “voting equity securities,” but rather indicated
that our initial intention would be to consider securities as voting equity securities if
“securityholders have or share the ability, either currently or on a contingent basis, to control or

203

a “bright-line” standard that is consistent with the definition of the term “voting
securities” in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. 765 In this regard, we believe that such a
term should include only those voting equity securities which, by their terms, currently
entitle the holder to vote for the election of directors. In other words, we believe the term
should be read to denote securities having a right to vote that are presently exercisable.
Additionally, while the ability to control or significantly influence the management or
policies of the issuer may be derived in part from the power to vote for the election of
directors, in order to dispel any uncertainty as to the scope of our interpretation, we
believe the term “voting equity securities” should be interpreted based on the present
right to vote for the election of directors, irrespective of the existence of control or
significant influence.
Under the final rules, offerings that would have been disqualified from reliance on
Regulation A under Rule 262 as in effect before today’s amendments will continue to be
disqualified. Triggering events that were not previously included in the bad actor rules
for Regulation A and that pre-date effectiveness of the final rules will not cause
disqualification, but instead must be disclosed on a basis consistent with Rule 506(e).
Specifically, issuers will be required to indicate in Part I of Form 1-A that none of the
persons described in Rule 262 are disqualified and, where applicable, that disclosure of

significantly influence the management and policies of the issuer through the exercise of a voting
right.” See SEC Rel. No. 33-9414 (July 10, 2013) [78 FR 44729], text accompanying fn. 62. In
light of concerns that our initial interpretation may be overbroad and that a “bright line” test may
be more workable and would facilitate compliance, as we indicated in the Proposing Release, we
are reconsidering our initial views. See Proposing Release, at Section II.G.
764

In addition to Regulation A, this interpretive position would apply to Rule 505 and Rule 506 of
Regulation D.

765

In Securities Act Rule 405, the term voting securities means securities the holders of which are
presently entitled to vote for the election of directors. 17 CFR 230.405.

204

triggering events that would have triggered disqualification, but occurred before the
effective date of the Regulation A amendments, will be provided in Part II of
Form 1-A. 766
We believe that the final rules are appropriate in light of the Section 3(b)(2)(G)(ii)
mandate, the benefits of creating a more uniform set of standards for all exemptions that
include bad actor disqualification, and the required disclosure in the offering circular of
persons subject to events that would have triggered disqualification, but occurred before
the effective date of the final rules.
H.

Relationship with State Securities Law
1.

Proposed Rules

Although Section 401(b) of the JOBS Act does not exempt offerings made under
Section 3(b)(2) and the related rules from state law registration and qualification
requirements, it added Section 18(b)(4)(D) to the Securities Act. 767 That provision states
that Section 3(b)(2) securities are covered securities for purposes of Section 18 if they are
“offered or sold on a national securities exchange” or “offered or sold to a qualified
purchaser, as defined by the Commission pursuant to [Section 18(b)(3)] with respect to
that purchase or sale.” Section 18(b)(3) provides that “the Commission may define the
term ‘qualified purchaser’ differently with respect to different categories of securities,
consistent with the public interest and the protection of investors.”

766

As discussed in Section II.C.3.a. above, Part I of Form 1-A focuses, in part, on issuer eligibility,
and requires issuers to make an eligibility determination at the outset of filling out Form 1-A.

767

Section 18 of the Securities Act generally provides for exemption from state law registration and
qualification requirements for certain categories of securities, defined as “covered securities.” See
Section 18(c), 15 U.S.C. 77r(c). State securities regulators retain authority to impose certain filing
and fee requirements and general antifraud enforcement authority with respect to covered
securities. See Section 18(c), 15 U.S.C. 77r(c).

205

Commenters in the pre-proposal stage suggested that the cost of state securities
law compliance, which they identified as an obstacle to the use of Regulation A, would
discourage market participants from using the new exemption. In addition, the GAO, as
required by Section 402 of the JOBS Act, conducted a study on the impact of state
securities laws registration and qualification requirements on offerings conducted under
Regulation A and found that state securities laws were among several central factors that
may have contributed to the lack of use of Regulation A. 768
In light of the issues raised by commenters and in the GAO Report, as well the
substantial investor protections included in the proposed rules to amend Regulation A and
implement Title IV of the JOBS Act, we proposed to define the term “qualified
purchaser” in a Regulation A offering to consist of: (1) all offerees in a Regulation A
offering and (2) all purchasers in a Tier 2 offering. 769 We indicated in the Proposing
Release that we believed this approach would protect offerees and purchasers in
Regulation A securities, while streamlining compliance and reducing transaction costs.
We proposed to preempt state securities laws registration and qualification
requirements with respect to all offerees in a Regulation A offering, in order to allow
issuers relying on Regulation A to communicate with potential investors about their
offerings using the internet, social media, and other means of widespread communication,
without concern that such communications might trigger registration requirements under
state law. 770 We further proposed to preempt state securities laws registration and

768

See fn. 90 above.

769

Proposed Rule 256.

770

We understand that some state securities regulators do not require the registration of broadly
advertised offerings such as internet offerings, if the advertisement indicates, directly or indirectly,

206

qualification requirements with respect to all purchasers in a Tier 2 offering to help make
Regulation A a more workable means of capital formation. We also noted our belief that
the substantial investor protections embedded in the proposed rules, including issuer
eligibility conditions, limitations on investment, disclosure requirements, qualification
process, and ongoing reporting requirements of Tier 2, in combination, could address
potential concerns that may arise as a result of preemption.
Under the proposed rules, state securities regulators would retain their authority
to:
•

require the filing of any document filed with the Commission and the payment
of filing fees;

•

investigate and bring enforcement actions against fraudulent securities
transactions and unlawful conduct by broker-dealers in such offerings; and

•

enforce the filing and fee requirements by suspending the offer or sale of
securities within a given state for the failure to file or pay the appropriate
fee. 771

As noted in the Proposing Release, it was our preliminary view that the additional
requirements for Tier 2 offerings would meaningfully bolster the protections otherwise
embedded in Regulation A and therefore a different treatment than Tier 1 offerings is
appropriate.

that the offering is not available to residents of that state. See, e.g., Washington State Dep’t of
Financial Institutions, Securities Act Policy Statement – 16, available at:
http://dfi.wa.gov/sd/securitiespolicy.htm#ps-16; see also NASAA Reports ¶ 7,040 (regarding
NASAA resolution, dated January 7, 1996, which encourages states to take appropriate steps to
exempt from securities registration offers of securities over the Internet).
771

Section 18(c) (Preservation of Authority) of the Securities Act, 15 U.S.C. 77r(c).

207

2.

Comments on Proposed Rules

The preemption of state securities law registration and qualification requirements
contemplated in the proposed “qualified purchaser” definition received an extensive
amount of public commentary. Commenters were sharply divided on the need for state
securities law preemption in Regulation A.
Many commenters objected to the preemption of state securities law registration
and qualification requirements. 772 The views of these commenters were based on the
following arguments:
•

A “qualified purchaser” means a purchaser with specialized skill, experience
or knowledge. 773

772

Letter from A. Heath Abshure, Arkansas Securities Commissioner, February 20, 2014 (“ASD
Letter”); CFA Letter; CFA Institute Letter; Letter from Rep. Stephen F. Lynch, et al, U.S. House
of Representatives, June 3, 2014 (“Congressional Letter 2”); Letter from Sen. Barbara Boxer, et al,
U.S. Senate, Aug. 1, 2014 (“Congressional Letter 4”); Cornell Clinic Letter; Groundfloor Letter
(suggesting that the Commission should at least evaluate NASAA’s coordinated review program
for 12 months); Karr Tuttle Letter (acknowledging that state preemption may still be necessary for
states not participating in NASAA’s new coordinated review program); Letter from William F.
Galvin, Secretary, Commonwealth of Massachusetts, December 18, 2013 (“Massachusetts Letter
1”); Massachusetts Letter 2; MCS Letter; Letter from Andrea Seidt, President, et al., North
American Securities Administrators Association (NASAA), February 19, 2014 (“NASAA Letter
1”); NASAA Letter 2; Letter from William Beatty, President, North American Securities
Administrators Association (NASAA), February 11, 2015 (“NASAA Letter 3”); Letter from Jack
E. Herstein, Assistant Director, Nebraska Department of Banking and Finance, February 10, 2014
(“NDBF Letter”); Letter from Chad Johnson, Bureau Chief, Investor Protection Bureau, New
York State Attorney General's Office, New York, May 7, 2014 (“NYIPB Letter”); Letter from
Irving L. Faught, Administrator, Oklahoma Department of Securities, March 24, 2014 (“ODS
Letter”); Letter from Damaris Mendoza-Román, Assistant Commissioner, Office of the
Commissioner of Financial Institutions, Puerto Rico, March 5, 2014 (“PRCFI Letter”); Letter from
Hon. Jesse White, Illinois Secretary of State, et al., March 4, 2014 (“Secretaries of State Letter”);
Letter from Lindsay M. Scherber, May 8, 2014 (“Scherber Letter”); Letter from Janet M.
Tavakoli, President, Tavakoli Structured Finance, Inc., February 24, 2014 (“Tavakoli Letter”);
Letter from John Morgan, Securities Commissioner, Texas State Securities Board, March 21, 2014
(“TSSB Letter”); WDFI Letter.

773

See, e.g., ASD Letter; CFA Letter; Congressional Letter 4; Cornell Clinic Letter; Massachusetts
Letter 1; NASAA Letter 2; ODS Letter; PRCFI Letter; WDFI Letter.

208

•

The qualifications of the purchaser are key, not the nature of the issuer or the
offering. Thus, the proposed definition of “qualified purchaser” is contrary to
the plain meaning of this term. 774

•

The legislative history of the National Securities Markets Improvement Act of
1996 (NSMIA) 775 suggests that definitions of “qualified purchaser” must
include an investor sophistication test. 776 The Commission made similar
statements on the “qualified purchaser” definition in a 2001 Proposing
Release. 777

•

Congress considered preemption in the context of a provision to preempt
offerings conducted through a broker-dealer in an early draft of Title IV of the
JOBS Act, but then purposefully excluded such broad preemption from the
final statute. 778

•

The Commission’s cost-benefit analysis of preemption was inadequate
because it largely ignored investor protections, the benefits of state regulation,
perceived resource constraints at the Commission, and preemption’s impact
on investor confidence in the markets. 779

774

See, e.g., CFA Letter; Massachusetts Letter 1; NASAA Letter 2; PRCFI Letter; Tavakoli Letter;
WDFI Letter.

775

Pub. L. 104-290, 110 Stat. 3416 (Oct. 11, 1996).

776

See, e.g., ASD Letter; Karr Tuttle Letter; Congressional Letter 4; Massachusetts Letter 1;
Massachusetts Letter 2; NASAA Letter 1; NASAA Letter 2; NDBF Letter; NYIPB Letter; ODS
Letter; PRCFI Letter; Secretaries of State Letter; Tavakoli Letter; WDFI Letter.

777

Rel. No. 33-8041 (Dec. 27, 2001) (the “2001 Proposing Release”).

778

See, e.g., ASD Letter; CFA Letter; Congressional Letter 2; Congressional Letter 4; Groundfloor
Letter; Massachusetts Letter 1; Massachusetts Letter 2; NASAA Letter 2; NDBF Letter; NYIPB
Letter; Secretaries of State Letter; Tavakoli Letter; WDFI Letter.

779

See, e.g., CFA Letter; Groundfloor Letter; Massachusetts Letter 2; NASAA Letter 2; Scherber
Letter; WDFI Letter.

209

•

Although the GAO Report conducted under Section 402 of the JOBS Act
cited compliance with state securities law review and qualification
requirements as a factor in the lack of use of Regulation A, it also noted
lengthy Commission reviews of Form 1-A filings. 780

•

States play a unique role in regulating securities offerings due to their
localized knowledge and resources, which aid in detecting fraud and
facilitating issuer compliance. 781

•

The investor protections included in the proposal do not act as an adequate
substitute for state review and comment on offering statements. 782

•

The states have adopted and implemented a new coordinated review program,
designed to address many of the perceived inefficiencies associated with state
registration. 783

Many other commenters expressed their support for preemption, as proposed. 784
These commenters made the following arguments:

780

See, e.g., CFA Letter; Massachusetts Letter 2; NASAA Letter 2; WDFI Letter.

781

See, e.g., NASAA Letter 1; ODS Letter; PRCFI Letter; WDFI Letter.

782

See, e.g., CFA Letter; CFA Institute Letter; MCS Letter; NASAA Letter 2; Scherber Letter; TSSB
Letter; WDFI Letter.

783

See, e.g., ASD Letter; CFA Institute Letter; Cornell Clinic Letter; Groundfloor Letter; Karr Tuttle
Letter; Massachusetts Letter 1; Massachusetts Letter 2; NASAA Letter 1; NASAA Letter 2;
NASAA Letter 3; NYIPB Letter; PRCFI Letter; Secretaries of State Letter; Tavakoli Letter; TSSB
Letter; WDFI Letter.

784

ABA BLS Letter; Letter from Kendall Almerico, Crowdfunding Expert, Attorney and CEO, Fund
Hub and ClickStartMe, February 11, 2014 (“Almerico Letter”); Andreessen/Cowen Letter; B.
Riley Letter; BIO Letter; Campbell Letter; Canaccord Letter; CFIRA Letter 1; CFIRA Letter 2;
Letter from Rep. David Schweikert, et al, U.S. House of Representatives, Sept. 25, 2014
(“Congressional Letter 3”); DuMoulin Letter (noting that Canadian issuers conducting
simultaneous offerings in Canada would otherwise be subject to three levels of review); Letter
from Stanley Keller, Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP, April 3, 2014 (“Edwards Wildman Letter”)
(recommending defining “qualified purchasers” as “accredited investors” if the proposed
preemption is not adopted); Letter from Daniel Eng, CEO, March 20, 2014 (“Eng Letter”);

210

•

The proposed rules provide substantial investor protections to investors. 785

•

State securities law review of offering statements is a significant impediment
to the use of Regulation A. 786

•

The Commission has the authority to preempt state qualification and review
requirements. 787

•

States continue to have the authority to, among other things, bring anti-fraud
enforcement actions and to review the publicly filed disclosure documents
before sales occur. 788

Fallbrook Technologies Letter; Gilman Law Letter; McCarter & English Letter; Guzik Letter 1
(see also Guzik Letter 2 (suggesting that if the proposed preemption is not adopted to consider
adopting an accredited investor style definition for “qualified purchaser,” but with a lower income
or net worth test)); Letter from Todd Hart, Aug. 20, 2014 (“Hart Letter”); Heritage Letter; Letter
from Charles Huynh, February 24, 2014 (“Huynh Letter”); IPA Letter; Kisel Letter; Letter from
Akbert P. Kretz, Ph.D., Founder/Manager, Mentor, March 11, 2014 (“Kretz Letter”); KVCF
Letter; Ladd Letters; Leading Biosciences Letter; Letter from Bruce E. Methven, Securities Law
Attorney, March 23, 2014 (“Methven Letter”); Milken Institute Letter; MoFo Letter; Letter from
Donald R. Hancock, CEO, Moloney Securities Co., Inc., February 20, 2014 (“Moloney Letter”);
Letter from Jason Akel, President, New Food Ventures LLC, March 12, 2014 (“New Food
Letter”); OTC Markets Letter; Letter from Jesse J. Palomino, February 25, 2014 (“Palomino
Letter”); Paul Hastings Letter; Public Startup Co. Letters; REISA Letter; Richardson Patel Letter;
SBIA Letter; Letter from Bradley L. Staples, MBA, University of Utah, February 21, 2014
(“Staples Letter”); Letter from Chris Sugai, February 21, 2014 (“Sugai Letter”); SVB Financial
Letter; SVGS Letter; Letter from Ryan Hawxhurst, Founder and CEO of Unorthodocs Printing
LLC, February 21, 2014 (“Unorthodocs Letter”); U.S. Chamber of Commerce Letter; Letter from
Gregory S. Fryer, Esq., Partner, Verrill Dana LLP, July 15, 2014 (“Verrill Dana Letter 2”); Letter
from John Warren, Esq., February 24, 2014 (“Warren Letter”); WR Hambrecht + Co Letter.
785

See, e.g., ABA BLS Letter; Almerico Letter; B. Riley Letter; Campbell Letter; Canaccord Letter;
CFIRA Letter 1; Congressional Letter 3; Edwards Wildman Letter; Fallbrook Technologies Letter;
Gilman Law Letter; Guzik Letter 1; Guzik Letter 2; KVCF Letter; Leading Biosciences Letter;
Milken Institute Letter; MoFo Letter; OTC Markets Letter; Paul Hastings Letter; Richardson Patel
Letter; Verrill Dana Letter 2; WR Hambrecht + Co Letter.

786

See, e.g., ABA BLS Letter; Almerico Letter; BIO Letter; Campbell Letter; Canaccord Letter;
Congressional Letter 3; DuMoulin Letter; Edwards Wildman Letter; Fallbrook Technologies
Letter; Gilman Law Letter; Guzik Letter 1; Guzik Letter 2; Kisel Letter; Kretz Letter; KVCF
Letter; Ladd Letters; Leading Biosciences Letter; McCarter & English Letter; Milken Institute
Letter; Moloney Letter; OTC Markets Letter; Paul Hastings Letter; REISA Letter; Richardson
Patel Letter; SBIA Letter; Staples Letter; SVB Financial Letter; U.S. Chamber of Commerce
Letter; Verrill Dana Letter 2.

787

See, e.g., ABA BLS Letter; BIO Letter; Campbell Letter; Edwards Wildman Letter; Guzik Letter
1; Heritage Letter; IPA Letter; KVCF Letter; Public Startup Co. Letters; Richardson Patel Letter;
U.S. Chamber of Commerce Letter; Verrill Dana Letter 2.

211

•

NASAA’s coordinated review program as implemented will remain inefficient
due to internal conflict, the application of merit review standards and the
program’s inability to bind participants in the event of disagreements among
the states. 789

Many commenters that expressed general support for preemption, as proposed,
also recommended applying it on an expanded basis. 790 Some commenters recommended
preempting state regulation of secondary trading in Regulation A securities, 791 and some
recommended preempting state regulation of Tier 1 offerings. 792
Alternatively, several commenters recommended possibly eliminating the
Commission’s review of Regulation A offerings to varying extents. 793 Two commenters
recommended eliminating the Commission’s review of Tier 1 offerings. 794 One of these

788

See, e.g., Congressional Letter 3; Heritage Letter; KVCF Letter; Methven Letter; REISA Letter.

789

See, e.g., ABA BLS Letter; BIO Letter; Canaccord Letter; Congressional Letter 3; Edwards
Wildman Letter; Guzik Letter 2; KVCF Letter; Ladd Letters; Milken Institute Letter; Paul
Hastings Letter; REISA Letter; Richardson Patel Letter; SVB Financial Letter; Verrill Dana Letter
2.

790

ABA BLS Letter; Campbell Letter; Congressional Letter 3; Guzik Letter 1; Hart Letter; Heritage
Letter; IPA Letter; KVCF Letter; Ladd Letter 2; Milken Institute Letter; OTC Markets Letter; Paul
Hastings Letter; Public Startup Co. Letter 1; SVB Financial Letter.

791

ABA BLS Letter; IPA Letter (recommending preempting for resales of all securities of a Tier 2
issuer that is current in Regulation A reporting); KVCF Letter; OTC Markets Letter
(recommending preemption for at least Regulation A securities that are not penny stocks); Paul
Hastings Letter; SVB Financial Letter.

792

Andreessen/Cowen Letter; Campbell Letter; Congressional Letter 3; Guzik Letter 1
(recommending preemption with audited financial statements and a substantially lighter disclosure
regime compared to Tier 2); Heritage Letter; Ladd Letter 2 (recommending preemption if
company adopts internal controls and meets continuing disclosure requirements, including yearly
audited financials); Milken Institute Letter (recommending preemption if audited financial
statements are included in the “initial filing”); Public Startup Co. Letter 1; SVB Financial Letter
(recommending preemption with additional, unspecified disclosure obligations). See Section II.I.
below for additional recommended changes to Tier 1.

793

Groundfloor Letter; Ladd Letter 2; Public Startup Co. Letter 5; Verrill Dana Letter 2.

794

Ladd Letter 2; Public Startup Co. Letter 5.

212

commenters recommended only doing this for offerings that are “local” in nature. 795 One
commenter recommended having a single state review, in lieu of a review and
qualification by the Commission, if the Commission’s staff is unwilling to review
Regulation A offerings “promptly with content-appropriate standards.”796 One
commenter recommended completely eliminating the Commission’s review if NASAA’s
coordinated review program promotes a “robust” Regulation A market. 797
3.

Final Rules

For the reasons discussed below, we are adopting the “qualified purchaser”
definition in Regulation A, substantially as proposed. In the final rules, a “qualified
purchaser” for purposes of Section 18(b)(4)(D)(ii) of the Securities Act includes any
person to whom securities are offered or sold in a Tier 2 offering. Because of the
requirements for all Tier 2 offerings, all purchasers in Tier 2 offerings persons must be
either accredited investors or persons who limit their investment amount to no more than
10% of the greater of annual income or net worth (for natural persons), or 10% of the
greater of annual revenue or net assets at fiscal year end (for non-natural persons).
To address commenter concerns and avoid potential confusion as to the
application of the preemption provisions in Tier 1 offerings, the final definition of
“qualified purchaser” does not include offerees in Tier 1 offerings. While the final rules
permit Regulation A issuers to test the waters and make offers in the pre-qualification
period at the federal level, in light of the concerns raised by state regulators about the

795

Public Startup Co. Letter 5.

796

Verrill Dana Letter 2.

797

Groundfloor Letter.

213

proposed rule’s expanded use of solicitation materials 798 and what we anticipate to be the
generally more local nature of Tier 1 offerings, 799 we believe it is appropriate, in this
context, for the states to retain oversight over how these offerings are conducted.
Although we acknowledge that this could potentially inhibit the use of solicitation
materials in certain Tier 1 offerings, for these smaller, more localized offerings, we think
the states should be permitted to regulate the use of solicitation materials.
Given the sharply divided views of commenters on the “qualified purchaser”
definition included in the Proposing Release, we want to clarify the scope of the
Commission’s authority under the Securities Act to define such a term and the effect the
final qualified purchaser definition will have on the continued ability of the states to
regulate offers and sales within their jurisdiction. We continue to believe that the
substantial investor protections embedded in the final rules for Tier 2 offerings, including
the requisite qualifications of the issuer, offering, and eventual purchasers, as well as the
particular characteristics associated with this category of securities, support the limited
preemption of state securities laws registration and qualification requirements adopted in
the final rules.
a.

NSMIA and the JOBS Act

As noted above, some commenters questioned the ability of the Commission to
adopt a “qualified purchaser” definition that includes any person to whom securities are

798

Massachusetts Letter 2; NASAA Letter 2; WDFI Letter. These commenters suggested that the
Commission require the filing of solicitation materials before the time of first use, as, in their
view, the antifraud and other civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws are not an
adequate substitute for the investor protections afforded by an advance filing requirement for
solicitation materials, while also noting that problems with the use of solicitation materials are
compounded by the provisions for access equals delivery of final offering circulars.

799

See Section II.H.3.d. below; see also fn. 830 below.

214

offered or sold in a Tier 2 offering. 800 These commenters suggested that a qualified
purchaser definition under Section 18(b)(3) of the Securities Act must be based on
attributes of the purchaser, not the nature of the issuer or offering. These commenters
stated that broad preemption was contemplated in the legislative history of Title IV of the
JOBS Act and expressly rejected by Congress.
Title I of the NSMIA, referred to as the “Capital Markets Efficiency Act of 1996”
(the “Efficiency Act”), 801 was, as its name suggests, enacted to promote efficiency and
capital formation in the financial markets. 802 The Efficiency Act realigned the respective
responsibilities of federal and state securities regulators in the context of the dual system
of securities offering registration that existed before enactment of the statute. 803 The
Efficiency Act achieved this regulatory realignment by amending Section 18 of the
Securities Act to provide for exemption from state law registration and qualification
requirements for certain categories of securities, defined as “covered securities.”
Section 18(b)(3) provides that “[a] security is a covered security with respect to
the offer or sale of the security to qualified purchasers, as defined by the Commission by
rule.” Congress stated in Section 18(b)(3) that the Commission may “define the term
‘qualified purchaser’ differently with respect to different categories of securities,
consistent with the public interest and the protection of investors.” The JOBS Act 804
800

See fn. 772 above.

801

NSMIA, section 101 (Short Title).

802

H.R. Rep. No. 622, 104th Cong. 2d Sess. at 1 (1996) (House Report).

803

As enacted, NSMIA included five separate titles, each of which served a different purpose in the
overarching statutory goal of improving national securities markets. See preamble and Section 1
to NSMIA.

804

The stated purpose of the JOBS Act is to “increase American job creation and economic growth
by improving access to the public capital markets . . . .” See JOBS Act (Preamble).

215

amended Section 18 by adding to its list of “covered securities” transactions involving
securities that are exempt from registration pursuant to a rule or regulation adopted
pursuant to Section 3(b)(2) and that are “offered or sold to a qualified purchaser, as
defined by the Commission pursuant to [Section 18(b)(3)] with respect to that purchase
or sale.” 805
By its terms, Section 18(b)(3) provides the Commission with the express authority
to adopt rules that define a “qualified purchaser.” The provision does not prescribe
specific criteria that the Commission must consider in determining, or the manner in
which it must determine, a purchaser to be “qualified.” Furthermore, Section 18(b)(3)
states that the definition of qualified purchaser may be different for different categories of
securities. This means that, rather than considering the characteristics of the purchaser in
isolation, the Commission may adopt a qualified purchaser definition that is also tailored
to reflect the characteristics of the particular type of issuer or transaction. Further,
Section 18(b)(3) does not proscribe any particular terms or characteristics that the
Commission must include in any rules defining qualified purchaser with respect to a
given category of securities. What it does instead is require that any rules so adopted be
consistent with the public interest and the protection of investors.
Unlike Section 18(b)(3), which provides for preemption with respect to offers or
sales to qualified purchasers in any context, Section 18(b)(4)(D)(ii) provides for
preemption specifically with respect to transactions exempt from registration pursuant to

805

JOBS Act section 401(b) (adding Section 18(b)(4)(D)(ii) to the Securities Act). Section 401(b)
also included in the list of “covered securities” transactions involving Section 3(b)(2) securities
that are offered or sold on a national securities exchange, see Section 18(b)(4)(D)(i). See also Title
III of the JOBS Act, which added to the list of “covered securities” in Section 18(b)(4)(C)
transactions involving securities issued pursuant to Section 4(a)(6).

216

Section 3(b)(2). As such, the preemption afforded under Section 18(b)(4)(D)(ii)
necessarily encompasses the mandatory requirements for conducting an exempt offering
pursuant to Section 3(b)(2). These include, among other things, that the civil liability
provisions of Section 12(a)(2) must apply and that an issuer must file audited financial
statements with the Commission annually. 806 Other potential requirements left to the
discretion of the Commission include provisions for ongoing reporting, bad actor
disqualification, and requirements for electronic filing of offering materials. 807
We believe that the terms of Section 18(b)(3) and Section 18(b)(4)(D)(ii)—read
in conjunction—provide the Commission with discretionary authority to adopt a
“qualified purchaser” definition that reflects the particular characteristics of transactions
exempt from registration pursuant to Section 3(b)(2). Thus, in determining who should
be considered a qualified purchaser for purposes of the amendments to Regulation A, we
have considered not only the mandatory features of Section 3(b)(2), but also many of the
discretionary features contained in our final rules, such as the requirement that purchasers
in Tier 2 offerings be limited to accredited investors or persons otherwise subject to
specified investment limitations.
We recognize that a number of commenters disagreed with this approach. 808
Some stated that a “qualified purchaser” definition adopted by the Commission must at a
minimum be based on attributes of the purchaser, such as a person’s wealth, income, or
sophistication, 809 and noted that the Commission had highlighted such factors in a 2001
806

15 U.S.C. 77c(b)(2)(D), (F).

807

See 15 U.S.C. 77c(b)(2)(G); 15 U.S.C. 77c(b)(4).

808

See fn. 772 above.

809

See, e.g., NASAA Letter 2.

217

Proposing Release to define a “qualified purchaser” pursuant to Section 18(b)(3). 810 The
2001 Proposing Release, however, contemplated that state securities review and
qualification requirements would be preempted in all categories of transactions to the
extent that sales were made to “accredited investors.” By contrast, our rules to
implement Title IV of the JOBS Act provide for preemption in the more limited
circumstances in which the requirements of Section 3(b)(2) and the rules adopted
thereunder are satisfied.
In the 2001 Proposing Release, we noted that certain aspects of NSMIA’s
legislative history suggest that a qualified purchaser definition should include investors
that are sophisticated and capable of protecting themselves. In addition, we asked
questions about the proposed approach to the definition and whether other potential
factors mentioned in the legislative history, such as the national character of an offering,
could or should bear on potential qualified purchaser definitions adopted pursuant to
Section 18(b)(3). 811
We do not believe that the 2001 Proposing Release is inconsistent with the
qualified purchaser definition for Regulation A that we are adopting today. The 2001
Proposing Release was not a Commission statement on the scope of all permissible
definitions for a qualified purchaser adopted pursuant to Section 18(b)(3). Rather, it
expressed a preliminary interpretive view of certain aspects of the legislative history of
NSMIA in the context of a proposed rulemaking that would have equated “qualified
810

2001 Proposing Release. In this release, the Commission proposed to define a “qualified
purchaser” to be an “accredited investor,” as that term is defined under Rule 501(a) of
Regulation D.

811

See 2001 Proposing Release, Section II.B. (for example, asking questions about the national
character of offerings and the potential for eliminating redundancies and inefficiencies in the
application of disparate state standards); see also House Report, at 31.

218

purchaser” with the definition of an “accredited investor” for sales by any category of
issuer in any type of transaction. 812 While it may have been appropriate to focus on
attributes of the purchaser when crafting a “qualified purchaser” definition that would
have applied in a broad set of possible transactions, as in the 2001 Proposing Release, the
definition being adopted today serves a different purpose because it applies only in
Regulation A offerings. Indeed, Section 18(b)(3) contemplates that the term “qualified
purchaser” can be defined “differently with respect to different categories of securities.”
The enactment of the JOBS Act in 2012, and in particular its addition of
Section 18(b)(4)(D)(ii) to the Securities Act has caused us to consider the definition of
qualified purchaser specifically within the context of transactions under the new
Section 3(b)(2) exemption. This is a new and different context in which to consider the
definition of qualified purchaser than existed at the time of the 2001 Proposing Release.
In this new context, we believe that the definition of qualified purchaser that we are
adopting is appropriately tailored to these transactions because, as explained above, the
requirements applicable to Tier 2 offerings include numerous provisions designed to
protect investors, including, among other things, a requirement that all purchasers in
these offerings be either accredited investors or persons who are subject to investment
limitations.
We do not agree with the commenters who assert that broad state securities law
preemption was expressly rejected by Congress in Title IV of the JOBS Act. The
legislative record indicates that the only form of state securities law preemption directly

812

See 2001 Proposing Release, Section I.C., II.B. The Commission did not adopt final rules based
on the 2001 Proposing Release.

219

contemplated, but not adopted, in the drafting of Title IV of the JOBS Act was for offers
and sales through a broker or dealer. 813
b.

Section 18 of the Securities Act and the Effect of Preemption
on State Securities Laws

As discussed above, some commenters expressed concern about the effect
preemption would have on the ability of state securities regulators to remain actively
involved in Regulation A offerings. 814 We believe it is important to clarify the effect
preemption will have on the ability of state securities regulators to continue to play a vital
role in the supervision of Regulation A securities.
Under Section 18(a) of the Securities Act, no law, rule or regulation of any state
requiring the registration or qualification of securities applies to a covered security or to a
security that will be a covered security upon completion of the transaction. 815 Further,
with respect to a covered security, no state law, rule or regulation shall prohibit, limit, or
impose, among other things, any conditions upon the use of any offering document 816

813

See, e.g., Congressional Record Volume 157, Number 166 (Wednesday, Nov. 2, 2011), p. 7231
(Statement of Rep. Peters: “Finally, the gentleman [Rep. Schweikert (AZ)] has also worked with
Democrats on the remaining issue of contention, and that was the preemption of State law. [Rep.
Schweikert’s] substitute amendment to H.R. 1070 removes the exemption from State level review
that was previously provided to an issuer using a broker-dealer to distribute and [sic] issue.”) Cf.
H.R. Rep. No. 112-206, at 2 (2011).

814

See, e.g., NASAA Letter 2, at 10.

815

15 U.S.C. 77r(a)(1).

816

Under Section 18(d), the term ‘‘offering document’’ has the same meaning given the term
‘‘prospectus’’ in first portion of section 2(a)(10) and includes a communication that is not deemed
to offer a security pursuant to a rule of the Commission. For these purposes, the term
“prospectus” means any prospectus, notice, circular, advertisement, letter, or communication,
written or by radio or television, which offers any security for sale or confirms the sale of any
security.

220

that is prepared by or on behalf of the issuer, or, based on the merits of such offering or
issuer, upon the offer or sale of any covered security. 817
While covered security status under Section 18 prohibits the states from requiring
the registration or qualification of such securities, Section 18(c) preserves the power of
the states in several important areas. 818 Under Section 18(c), the states retain:
•

the jurisdiction to investigate and bring enforcement actions with respect to
fraudulent securities transactions and unlawful conduct by broker-dealers; 819

•

the ability to require issuers to file with the states any document filed with the
Commission, solely for notice purposes and the assessment of fees, together with
a consent to service of process and any required fee; 820 and

•

the power to enforce the filing and fee requirements by suspending the offer or
sale of securities within a given state for the failure to file or pay the appropriate
fee. 821
As the name of the statute that added Section 18 to the Securities Act suggests,

the preemption of state securities laws is about improving the “efficiency” of our capital
markets by eliminating unnecessary, duplicative regulation of securities offerings at both

817

15 U.S.C. 77r(a)(2)-(3).

818

15 U.S.C. 77r(c).

819

15 U.S.C. 77r(c)(1).

820

15 U.S.C. 77r(c)(2). For example, even though state securities law registration requirements are
preempted in offerings pursuant to Rule 506 of Regulation D, 17 CFR 230.506, many states
continue to require the filing of Form D notices and amendments, and most of them charge a filing
fee. See, e.g., https://www.efdnasaa.org; cf. 15 U.S.C. 77r(b)(4)(E).

821

15 U.S.C. 77r(c)(3).

221

the federal and state level. 822 It is not about eliminating investor protections or otherwise
limiting the continued involvement of the states in such offerings. 823
c.

State Coordinated Review Program for Section 3(b)(2)
Securities

Since the proposed rules to implement Title IV of the JOBS Act were issued in
December 2013, NASAA has implemented a multi-state coordinated review program for
Regulation A offerings, the goal of which is to reduce the state law disclosure and
compliance obligations of Regulation A issuers. 824 Under the coordinated review
program, issuers are required to file Regulation A offering materials with the states via
electronic mail. The administrator of the coordinated review program must then select a
lead disclosure examiner and, where applicable, a lead merit examiner, which are
responsible for drafting and circulating comment letters to the participating jurisdictions,
and for seeking resolution of those comments with the issuer and its counsel. As enacted,
the program contemplates a twenty-one business day turnaround from the time of filing
of an offering statement until the issuer receives comments from the states. 825 The
coordinated review program’s review protocol also modifies (or disapplies altogether)
certain of NASAA statements of policy for offerings undergoing coordinated review.
822

House Report, at 1.

823

Id., at 16 (Noting the reason behind the legislation that eventually became NSMIA was a clear
need for modernization and that “there continues to be a substantial degree of duplication between
Federal and State securities regulation, and that this duplication tends to raise the cost of capital to
American issuers of securities without providing commensurate protection to investors or our
markets.”).

824

A description of NASAA’s coordinated review program can be found at:
http://www.nasaa.org/industry-resources/corporation-finance/coordinated-review/regulation-aofferings/. The Proposing Release also discusses this program, as it was contemplated and
proposed at that time. See Proposing Release, at Section II.H.

825

An illustrated timeline for NASAA’s multi-state coordinated review program is available at:
http://www.nasaa.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/03/Coordinated-Review-Chart.pdf.

222

Where, however, an issuer elects to offer or sell Regulation A securities in at least one
merit state, the coordinated review program may require the issuer to apply NASAA’s
statements of policy to the offering as a whole (i.e., not solely for purposes of offers or
sales within such merit review state(s)).
At the proposing stage, we indicated that a number of open questions remained
about the then-proposed multi-state review program. In the intervening time, many
questions have been answered, largely relating to the final adoption and implementation
of the program by a vast majority of the states. 826 Other crucial questions, however,
remain, such as whether the program will be able to address the concerns related to state
securities law compliance identified by the GAO Report and commenters, 827 and whether
the program can continue, as contemplated, in the face of numerous filings by issuers that
seek to participate in the streamlined process. As of the date of this release, we are aware
of three issuers that have elected to seek qualification at the state level pursuant to the
protocols of the multi-state coordinated review program. 828 While the program, as
contemplated in its enactment, could potentially reduce the state law disclosure and
compliance obligations of issuers, 829 the limited experience of issuers with the program
prevents us from being able to fully evaluate it at this time. We note that Tier 1 issuers
826

At this time, it is our understanding that 49 of NASAA’s 53 constituent members have agreed to
participate in the coordinated review program.

827

See, e.g., GAO-12-839, at 14 (discussing the varying standards and degrees of stringency applied
during the qualification and review process in merit review states); see also, e.g., ABA BLS
Letter, at 14.

828

See, e.g., Groundfloor Letter (the first issuer to rely on NASAA’s coordinate review program, with
the exception of having to seek qualification outside of the coordinated review program in the
state of Georgia).

829

Id. (suggesting that in its experience the benefits of NASAA’s coordinated review program
outweighed the approximately $50,000 cost of the average Regulation A offering); see also
NASAA Letter 3.

223

may well benefit from the coordinated review program as it continues to develop. We
remain concerned, however, that, even under the coordinated review program, state
securities law registration and qualification requirements would be unnecessarily
duplicative for, and impose unnecessary costs on, securities issued in Tier 2 offerings. In
light of the recent efforts of state securities regulators to address concerns about the costs
associated with state qualification of Regulation A offering statements, however, the
ongoing implementation and development of the coordinated review program,
particularly as it may operate within Tier 1 offerings, may provide additional data that
will aid any future evaluation of whether such a program could effectively operate within
the context of larger, more national Tier 2 offerings as an alternative to preemption.
d.

Application of State Securities Law in Tier 1 and Tier 2
Offerings

As we noted in the Proposing Release, in light of the issues raised by commenters
and in the GAO report, we remain concerned that costs associated with state securities
law compliance, even under a coordinated review program, may deter issuers from using
amended Regulation A, which could significantly limit the impact of the exemption as a
tool for capital formation. In considering our approach to preemption in the final rules,
particularly as we evaluate what is consistent with the public interest and the protection
of investors, we have taken into account the amended Regulation A regime, including the
distinctions between the two tiers and in particular the additional protections provided in
Tier 2 beyond the requirements of Tier 1.
In addition to certain basic requirements that are applicable to both tiers, Tier 2
issuers will be subject to significant additional requirements, some arising directly from

224

Section 3(b)(2) and others that we have imposed through our discretionary authority
under that section. For example, the financial statements that Tier 2 issuers include in
their offering circulars are required to be audited, and Tier 2 issuers must file audited
financial statements with the Commission annually. Tier 2 issuers also must provide
ongoing reports on an annual and semiannual basis with additional requirements for
interim current event updates, assuring a continuous flow of information to investors and
the market. In addition, purchasers in Tier 2 offerings must be either accredited investors
or subject to limitations in the amount they may invest in a single offering. Finally, as
with Tier 1 offerings, Tier 2 offering statements will be filed electronically, reviewed and
qualified by Commission staff, and the offerings are subject to both limitations on
eligible issuers and “bad actor” disqualification provisions. In consideration of these
requirements, as well as our view, as discussed in greater detail below, that Tier 2
offerings are more likely to be national rather than local in nature, we believe that
preemption of state securities law registration and qualification requirements is
appropriate for purchasers in these offerings.
We believe that the final rules for Regulation A create two different categories of
securities for purposes of Section 18(b)(3). The requirements for Tier 1 issuers create a
category of securities that is more local in character, while Tier 2 offerings involve a
category of securities that is more national in character. In this regard, to the extent an
issuer seeks to raise money through a public offering pursuant to Regulation A, the
distinctions between the requirements for Tier 1 and Tier 2 will provide issuers with a
meaningful choice at the outset between initial and ongoing offering costs and
requirements.

225

Tier 1 issuers are not required to include audited financial statements in their
offering statements, nor are they required—as contemplated by Section 3(b)(2)—to file
audited financial statements with the Commission annually. They are further not subject
to any ongoing reporting, beyond the requirements contained in Part I of Form 1-Z.
While the final rules raise the offering limitation in Tier 1 to $20 million in a 12-month
period, which we believe should increase the general utility of the tier, such offerings by
virtue of the lower dollar amounts that can be raised in comparison to Tier 2 offerings, as
well as the form filing requirements and the lack of ongoing reporting, will likely be
conducted by a different set of issuers than those that conduct offerings pursuant to
Tier 2. Specifically, we think that issuers conducting Tier 1 offerings are likely to be
smaller companies whose businesses revolve around products, services, and a customer
base that will more likely be located within a single state, region, or a small number of
geographically dispersed states. 830 We believe that these issuers will typically not seek
or, on the basis of their business models, be able to: (i) raise capital on a national scale;
or (ii) create a secondary trading market in their Regulation A securities.
By contrast, we believe that the higher offering limitation for Tier 2 offerings, the
higher costs associated with complying with the audited financial statement and ongoing
reporting requirements, as well as the requirement to sell to “accredited investors” or
otherwise limit the amount of securities sold to non-accredited investors, will necessitate
that such offerings be offered and sold on a larger and more national scale. Additionally,

830

For example, issuers of securities in the seven offering statements qualified by the Commission
pursuant to Regulation A in 2014 indicated, on average, that they were seeking qualification in
approximately five states per offering. The financial statements provided by these issuers further
indicated, on average, that issuers had approximately $1.2 million in assets. No issuer indicated
assets greater than $3.6 million, while two issuers indicated assets of less than $20,000.

226

an issuer electing to conduct a Tier 2 offering would likely do so, or be required by its
investors to do so, in order to provide ongoing reports in a manner that will facilitate, or
otherwise result in, secondary trading on a national level. While issuers conducting
Regulation A offerings for less than $20 million are free to choose between the
requirements of either tier, we believe that the initial and ongoing costs and limitations
associated with complying with Tier 2 will provide for the natural separation of offerings
into the respective tiers with issuers in more local offerings electing to comply with the
less onerous requirements of Tier 1.
As noted above, some of the basic requirements of the offering statement are
applicable to both tiers, and issuers of securities pursuant to either tier will remain subject
to the same review and comment process by the staff of the Division of Corporation
Finance before qualification. On this basis, some commenters argued that the same
reasons supporting the preemption of state securities law registration requirements for
Tier 2 offerings suggests that the Commission should also extend preemption to Tier 1
offerings. 831
The distinctions between the tiers in the final rules for purposes of the preemption
of state securities law registration requirements are based only in part on the form
distinctions and process requirements for issuers at the time of qualification at the federal
level. The preemption of state securities law registration requirements in the final rules
for Tier 2 offerings is additionally related to the inefficiencies of qualification at the state
and federal level, the differing characteristics of Tier 1 and Tier 2 offerings, and the

831

Andreessen/Cowen Letter; Campbell Letter; Guzik Letter 1; Heritage Letter; Ladd Letter 2;
Milken Institute Letter; Public Startup Co. Letter 1; SVB Letter.

227

statutory purposes behind the enactment of the Efficiency Act that are served by deeming
Tier 2 offerings to involve a covered class of securities.
While, as some commenters suggest, the review and qualification of Tier 1
offerings at the state level will involve inefficiencies to which Tier 2 issuers will not be
subject, we believe that continued state involvement in Tier 1 offerings is consistent with
the policy underlying the enactment of NSMIA that suggests that states should “generally
retain their authority to regulate small, regional, or intrastate securities offerings.” 832 As
noted above, we believe that the implementation of NASAA’s multi-state coordinated
review program has the potential to ameliorate some of these inefficiencies. We will
observe issuers’ experience under the coordinated review program and amended
Regulation A, and whether changes to the rule could be beneficial. We also believe that
the requirements for Tier 2 offerings will advance “the development of national securities
markets and eliminate the costs and burdens of duplicative and unnecessary
regulation.” 833 The absence of preemption in Tier 2 offerings would unnecessarily
subject issuers in such offerings to a substantial degree of duplication between federal
and state securities regulation in the qualification of offering statements, which would

832

House Report, at 16. See also WDFI Letter, at 3 (“Given the relatively small size of these
offerings and the low probability of attracting the attention of national broker-dealers to distribute
them, these offerings are likely to be local in nature.”). The Commission is exploring the
possibility of establishing a program whereby a representative of NASAA, or of a state securities
regulator, would be assigned to work at the Commission in the Division of Corporation Finance to
assist the staff as it implements the final rules.

833

House Report, at 16. While further preemption of state securities law regulation of the secondary
trading of Regulation A securities issued in a Tier 2 offerings could, as some commenters suggest,
further advance the development of a national securities market by easing the compliance
obligations of investors that trade in the secondary markets, we believe that the approach to
preemption of state securities laws adopted today is more appropriate at the outset and will afford
the Commission time to subsequently review the development of, and consider potential changes
to, the final rules for primary and secondary Regulation A markets.

228

raise the cost of capital to issuers without providing commensurate additional protection
to investors or our markets. 834
As noted above, under Section 18(c), the states retain authority to (1) investigate
and bring enforcement actions with respect to fraudulent transactions, (2) require the
filing of any documents filed with the Commission “solely for notice purposes and the
assessment of any fee,” and (3) enforce filing and fee requirements by suspending
offerings within a given state. We see no reason why state securities regulators could not
continue to rely on the multi-state coordinated review program as a mechanism to allow
Tier 2 issuers to make notice filings of their offering statements with the states consistent
with Section 18(c). In this regard, notice filings of offering statements of Tier 2 issuers
would be available to the states for a period of time prior to the qualification of the
offering. 835 For example, the final rules for Regulation A require an issuer that nonpublicly submits its offering statement for review to the Commission to publicly file its
offering statement and related documents with the Commission not less than 21 calendar
days before qualification. At that time, the states would be permitted to require issuers to

834

See id.; see also, e.g., ABA BLS Letter, at 13 (noting the challenges posed to smaller companies
that arise when having to respond to both federal and state reviews and coordinating overlapping
or potentially inconsistent comments and approvals); Groundfloor Letter (noting the existence of,
and additional costs associated with, duplicative qualification requirements at the state and federal
level, as well as potential complications between investment limitations at the federal level and
state suitability standards).

835

See, e.g., comment letters cited in fn. 788 above; see also Letter from A. Heath Abshure,
President, NASAA, September 27, 2013 (comments on SEC. Rel. No. 33-9416 (Proposed
Amendments to Regulation D, Form D and Rule 156 under the Securities Act)) (indicating that
although “states are preempted from requiring registration of securities that are sold in compliance
with Rule 506 . . . state regulators routinely review Form D filings to ensure that the offerings
actually qualify for an exemption . . . and to look for “red flags” that may indicate a fraudulent
offering. The absence of a Form D filing complicates our efforts to protect the investing public.”).
The concerns of the states, as they relate to Form D filings, would be addressed in the final rules
for Regulation A that require the filing with the Commission of substantive offering materials,
thereby triggering any notice filing requirements with the states, before sales can be made.

229

also make notice filings of such materials with them and to assess any filing fees under
Section 18(c)(2).
I.

Additional Considerations Related to Smaller Offerings
As we noted in the Proposing Release, a number of factors have influenced the

use of Regulation A in the form it has taken since its last substantive update in 1992,
including the process of filing the offering statement with the Commission, state
securities law compliance, the types of investors businesses seek to attract, and the costeffectiveness of Regulation A relative to other exemptions. 836 In developing the final
rules we are adopting, we have attempted to create a more efficient and effective method
to raise capital under Regulation A that incorporates important investor protections. We
are also cognizant of how issuers seeking to raise relatively smaller amounts of capital
could consider a range of possible approaches to capital raising. 837
Under our proposal, offerings for up to $5 million conducted under Tier 1 would
benefit from the proposed updates to Regulation A’s filing and qualification processes,
but the proposed amendments did not otherwise substantially alter the existing exemption
for such offerings. 838 We were mindful of the possibility that additional changes to Tier
1 could expand its use by, and thus potentially benefit, issuers conducting smaller
offerings. We therefore solicited comment on additional considerations with respect to

836

See, e.g., Proposing Release, at Section I.C.; see also GAO Report.

837

These methods include, for example, Rules 504, 505 and 506 under Regulation D and
Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act and any rules adopted thereunder. See also Proposing
Release, at Section II.I.

838

Some commenters at the pre-proposal stage suggested that the Commission should largely
preserve the requirements of the then-existing Regulation A in the final rules. See Proposing
Release, at fn. 505.

230

Tier 1 and a potential intermediate tier for offerings incrementally larger than Tier 1
offerings and how such offerings would affect investor protection and capital formation.
Many commenters recommended making changes to proposed Tier 1 to make it a
more viable option for small business capital formation. 839 Some of these commenters
recommended preempting state regulation of Tier 1 offerings, as mentioned above. 840
Two commenters recommended raising the offering limit of Tier 1 to $10 million or
more. 841 Several commenters recommended including an ongoing disclosure
requirement for Tier 1 issuers, including disclosure at a level lower than what is required
for Tier 2, 842 ongoing disclosure with yearly audited financials, 843 or some unspecified
continuous disclosure obligation. 844 One commenter recommended lowering the Tier 1
disclosure obligations from the current proposed requirements, particularly for offerings
of $2 million or less. 845 One commenter recommended expanding the offering limit for
Tier 1 to $15 million and creating a new tier below Tier 1 with fewer disclosure
requirements. 846 Many commenters recommended changes to proposed Tier 1, but did

839

Andreessen/Cowen Letter; BDO Letter; Letter from Kevin Bernard, Sept. 3, 2014 (“Bernard
Letter”); Campbell Letter; CAQ Letter; Deloitte Letter; E&Y Letter; Guzik Letter 1; Heritage
Letter; ICBA Letter; KPMG Letter; Ladd Letter 2; McGladrey Letter; Milken Institute Letter;
Public Startup Co. Letter 1; SVB Financial Letter; Verrill Dana Letter 1; WR Hambrecht + Co
Letter.

840

Andreessen/Cowen Letter; Bernard Letter; Campbell Letter; Guzik Letter 1; Heritage Letter; Ladd
Letter 2; Milken Institute Letter; Public Startup Co. Letter 1; SVB Financial Letter.

841

Guzik Letter 1; ICBA Letter.

842

Guzik Letter 1 (suggesting that Tier 1 ongoing disclosure requirements could parallel Tier 2’s
requirements, but without the requirement for semiannual reports).

843

Ladd Letter 2.

844

SVB Financial Letter.

845

Campbell Letter.

846

Public Startup Co. Letter 1. As mentioned in the relevant sections above, this commenter
recommended three tiers based on offering size. The first tier could potentially only require state
review and would be “local” in nature. This tier would include some form of ongoing reporting

231

not address preemption. 847 Several of these commenters made recommendations with
respect to the financial statement and auditing requirements in Form 1-A. 848
The final rules for Regulation A take into account some of the suggestions by
commenters on ways to improve the requirements for smaller offerings, particularly in
Tier 1. The comments we received did not reflect any consensus on the particular
provisions in Tier 1 that were most in need of amendment. As noted above, we do not
agree that preemption of state securities laws registration and qualification requirements
is appropriate for Tier 1 offerings. 849 Further, while some commenters suggested that
preemption of state securities laws may improve the attractiveness of Tier 1 offerings,
they did so on the condition that other aspects of the tier should change accordingly, such
as by requiring Tier 1 issuers to provide audited financial statements in the offering
statement and possibly on an ongoing basis. For the reasons discussed in
Section II.C.3.b(2)(c) above, however, we have not adopted such changes in Tier 1.
Alternatively, some commenters suggested that the Commission adopt a third tier either
expressly or through the flexible applicability of the proposed tier requirements. While a
third tier may provide issuers with some additional flexibility for capital formation under
Regulation A, this additional flexibility would also have potential costs. For example, a

with the states, but not audited financials. Instead directors and officers would have to certify
under penalty of perjury that the financial statements were accurate. The second tier would only
require audited financial statements if they were otherwise available, would preempt state review
and would require periodic reporting. This tier might allow for more flexibility with respect to
auditor independence. The third tier would require more reporting than currently proposed for
Tier 2 and would appear to require PCAOB-registered auditors.
847

BDO Letter; CAQ Letter; Deloitte Letter; E&Y Letter; ICBA Letter; KPMG Letter; McGladrey
Letter.

848

BDO Letter; CAQ Letter; Deloitte Letter; E&Y Letter; KPMG Letter; McGladrey Letter.

849

See Section II.H.3. above.

232

third tier may unnecessarily complicate compliance with Regulation A for smaller
issuers, and could potentially confuse investors as to the type of Regulation A offering an
issuer was undertaking and the type of information such investor could expect to receive
as a result, thereby lessening the viability of the exemption as a whole. For this reason,
we are not adopting a third or intermediate tier in Regulation A.
We are adopting certain changes in the final rules that are intended to make Tier 1
more useful for small business capital formation. As discussed above, in line with the
suggestions of commenters, we have raised the offering limitation in Tier 1 to
$20 million in a 12-month period, including no more than $6 million on behalf of selling
securityholders that are affiliates of the issuer. 850 With respect to the offering circular
narrative disclosure requirements, 851 we have adopted certain additional scaled disclosure
requirements for Tier 1 that are intended to lessen the compliance obligations for issuers.
For example, Tier 1 issuers will be required to disclose related party transactions at the
thresholds in current Regulation A, as opposed to the lower thresholds in the proposed
rules, and simplified executive compensation data. We are further providing issuers
under both Tiers with the accommodation provided to emerging growth companies in
Securities Act Section 7(a) to delay the implementation of new accounting standards to
the extent such standards provide for delayed implementation by non-public business
entities. Lastly, we have provided Tier 1 issuers with additional flexibility with respect to
auditor independence standards. As originally proposed, an issuer electing to provide
audited financial statements in a Tier 1 offering—even though audited financial

850

See Section II.B.3.c. above.

851

See Section II.C.3.b(1). above.

233

statements would not generally be required—would have had to engage the services of an
auditor that followed the independence standards outlined in Article 2 of Regulation S-X.
Commenters suggested that we should permit auditors of the financial statements of
Tier 1 issuers to alternatively follow the independence standards of the AICPA or
Article 2 of Regulation S-X. 852 In the view of these comments, allowing auditors of
Tier 1 issuer financial statements the option to follow the independence standards of the
AICPA would permit more issuers to include financial statements that would be deemed
audited under the requirements for Tier 1 in the first instance, thereby avoiding any fees
associated with an issuer having their existing financial statements audited a second time
under PCAOB standards. As noted above, 853 we agree with commenters that this
accommodation may benefit smaller issuers in Tier 1 offerings who wish to file audited
final statements for purposes of the offering statement and thus are adopting this
suggestion.
In the light of the changes discussed above, we believe that the final rules we are
adopting will provide Tier 1 issuers with a meaningful choice within Regulation A
between the costs and benefits associated with compliance with the requirements for
Tier 1 and Tier 2 and therefore do not believe that an intermediate or other tier is
necessary at this time.

852

BDO Letter; CAQ Letter; Deloitte Letter; E&Y Letter; KPMG Letter; McGladrey Letter.

853

See Section II.C.3.b(2)(c). above.

234

J.

Transitional Guidance for Issuers Currently Conducting Regulation A
Offerings
While Regulation A has been used infrequently in recent years, there are issuers

that are currently conducting, or that have filed offering statements, under the preexisting
Regulation A rules. By way of transitional guidance, we are clarifying that issuers
currently conducting sales of securities pursuant to a qualified Regulation A offering
statement may continue to do so. Such offerings will be considered Tier 1 offerings after
the effectiveness of the final rules. Qualified offering statements under the preexisting
rules for Regulation A are, however, incompatible with the final requirements for Tier 2
offerings and, as discussed below, issuers that wish to transition to a Tier 2 offering will
need to file a post-qualification amendment that satisfies the requirements for Tier 2.
Upon effectiveness of the final rules, issuers currently conducting Regulation A
offerings under the preexisting rules must begin to comply with the final rules for Tier 1
offerings, including, for example, the requirement of electronic filing and the rules for
post-qualification amendments, at the time of their next filing under Regulation A.
Additionally, after effectiveness of the final rules, to the extent that issuers provided
offering statements that were qualified using the Model A disclosure format of Part II of
the Form 1-A, any subsequently required filing or amendment to such offering statement
must be filed using a disclosure format that is permissible under the final rules for Tier 1
offerings. Model A will no longer be appropriate or permitted for post-qualification
amendments of qualified offerings that pre-date effectiveness of the final rules. Lastly,
an issuer that is offering securities pursuant to a qualified offering statement under the
preexisting rules will, upon effectiveness of the final rules, no longer be required to file a

235

Form 2-A, but instead be required to file a Form 1-Z with the Commission electronically
upon completion or termination of the offering.
Issuers that are currently in the review process for the qualification of a
Regulation A offering statement may continue to follow the preexisting rules for
Regulation A until the effective date of the final rules. On or after the effective date,
such an issuer will be required to comply with the final rules, including the requirements
for electronic filing and, where applicable, transitioning to a disclosure format that is
approved for Regulation A offerings. The issuer may also elect to proceed at that time
with its offering under the final requirements for either Tier 1 or Tier 2 offerings,
provided it follows the requirements for the respective tiers.
Issuers in ongoing offerings that were qualified before effectiveness of the final
rules that wish to transition to a Tier 2 offering may do so by filing a post-qualification
amendment that satisfies all of the requirements for Tier 2. Such issuers will transition to
the requirements for Tier 2 upon qualification of the post-qualification amendment. For
purposes of calculating the maximum offering amount permissible under Rule 251(a), an
issuer must reduce the maximum offering amount sought to be qualified under the final
rules for the respective tiers by the amount which such issuer has sold during the previous
12-month period pursuant to the preexisting rules for Regulation A.
K.

Technical and Conforming Amendments
The final rules for Regulation A amend existing Rules 251-263. 854 The

amendments take into account changes to Regulation A associated with the addition of
Section 3(b)(2) to the Securities Act, and the items detailed in this release.
854

17 CFR 230.251 through 230.263.

236

As a result of the revisions to Regulation A, we are adopting conforming and
technical amendments to Securities Act Rules 157(a), 855 505(b)(2)(iii), 856 and Form 8-A.
Additionally, we are revising Item 101(a) 857 of Regulation S-T 858 to reflect the mandatory
electronic filing of all issuer initial filing and ongoing reporting requirements under
Regulation A. We are also revising Item 101(c)(6) 859 of Regulation S-T to remove the
reference to paper filings in a Regulation A offering, and removing and reserving
Item 101(b)(8) 860 of Regulation S-T dealing with the optional electronic filing of
Form F-X by Canadian issuers.
III.

ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
In this section, we analyze the expected economic effects of the final rules relative

to the current baseline, which is the market situation in existence today, including current
methods of raising up to $50 million in capital available to potential issuers. Our analysis
considers the anticipated costs and benefits for market participants affected by the final
rules as well as the impact of the final rules on efficiency, competition, and capital
formation relative to the baseline. This includes the likely economic effects of the
specific provisions of the final rules related to the scope of the exemption, the format and
contents of the offering statement, solicitation of interest, ongoing reporting, insignificant
deviations, bad actor disqualification, and relationship with state securities law.
The final rules to implement Section 401 of the JOBS Act and amend
855

17 CFR 230.157(a).

856

17 CFR 230.505(b)(2)(iii).

857

17 CFR 232.101(a).

858

17 CFR 232.10 et seq.

859

17 CFR 232.101(c)(6).

860

17 CFR 232.101(b)(8).

237

Regulation A seek to promote capital formation, efficiency and competition for small
companies, and provide for meaningful investor protection. We are mindful of the costs
imposed by, and the benefits to be obtained from, our rules. Securities Act
Section 2(b) 861 and Exchange Act Section 3(f) 862 require us, when engaging in
rulemaking that requires us to consider or determine whether an action is necessary or
appropriate in the public interest, to consider, in addition to the protection of investors,
whether the action will promote efficiency, competition, and capital formation.
Exchange Act Section 23(a)(2) 863 requires us, when adopting rules under the Exchange
Act, to consider the impact that any new rule would have on competition and not to adopt
any rule that would impose a burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate
in furtherance of the purposes of the Exchange Act.
The final rules include provisions mandated by the statute as well as provisions
that rely on our discretionary authority. As a result, while many of the costs and benefits
of the final rules stem from the statutory mandate of Title IV of the JOBS Act, certain
benefits and costs are affected by the discretion we exercise in connection with
implementing this mandate. For purposes of this economic analysis, we address the
benefits and costs resulting from the mandatory statutory provisions and our exercise of
discretion together because the two types of benefits and costs are not readily separable.
We also analyze the benefits and costs of significant alternatives to the final rules that
were suggested by commenters and that we considered. Many of the benefits and costs
discussed below are difficult to quantify when analyzing the likely effects of the final
861

15 U.S.C. 77b(b).

862

15 U.S.C. 78c(f).

863

15 U.S.C. 78w(a)(2).

238

rules on efficiency, competition, and capital formation. For example, the extent to which
the amendments to Regulation A will promote future reliance by issuers on this offering
method, and the extent to which future use of Regulation A will affect the use of other
offering methods, is difficult to precisely estimate. Similarly, there is some uncertainty
as to the effect of some of the provisions in the final rules on investor protection.
Therefore, much of the discussion is qualitative in nature but, where possible, we
attempted to quantify the potential costs and benefits of the final rules.
A.

Broad Economic Considerations
One of the primary objectives of Section 401 was to expand the capital raising

options available to smaller and emerging companies and thereby to promote capital
formation within the larger economy. 864 With this objective in mind, and as background
to our analysis of the likely costs and benefits of the final rule provisions, we consider the
broader impact of amended Regulation A on capital formation. As discussed below, this
will depend on whether issuers that currently raise capital elect to rely on amended
Regulation A in place of other offering methods and whether issuers that have been
unable to raise capital, or raise enough capital, avail themselves of amended Regulation
A because it is preferable over other capital rising methods otherwise available to them.
To the extent that amended Regulation A provides a method of raising capital for issuers
864

Congress enacted Section 3(b)(2) against a background of public commentary suggesting that
Regulation A, an exemption for small offerings originally adopted by the Commission in 1936
under the authority of Section 3(b) of the Securities Act, should be expanded and updated to make
it more useful to small issuers. H.R. 1070 (Small Company Capital Formation Act of 2011) was
introduced in April 2011. In its September 2011 report, the Committee on Financial Services
noted: “H.R. 1070, the Small Company Capital Formation Act, raises the offering threshold for
companies exempted from registration with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
under Regulation A from $5 million--the threshold set in the early 1990s--to $50 million. Raising
the offering threshold helps small companies gain access to capital markets without the costs and
delays associated with the full-scale securities registration process…” See H.R. Rep. No. 112-206
(2011).

239

that currently have no method of doing so, it could enhance the overall level of capital
formation in the economy in addition to any redistributive effect that could arise from
issuers changing their capital raising methods.
The impact of the final rules on an issuer’s ability to raise capital will also depend
on whether new investor capital is attracted to the Regulation A market, and on whether
investors reallocate existing capital among various types of offerings. Investor demand
for securities offered under amended Regulation A will depend on the expected risk,
return and liquidity of the offered securities, and in particular, how these characteristics
compare to what investors can obtain from securities in other exempt offerings and in
registered offerings. Investor demand also will depend on whether Regulation A
disclosure requirements are sufficient to enable investors to evaluate the aforementioned
characteristics of Regulation A offerings.
To assess the likely impact of the final rules on capital formation, we consider the
features of amended Regulation A that potentially could increase the use of Regulation A
by new issuers and by issuers that already rely on private and registered offerings.
The amendments to Regulation A we are adopting remove certain burdens
identified by commenters and others in existing Regulation A. Offerings relying on
existing Regulation A must be qualified by the states and the Commission, which also
requires a review and qualification process for issuers to access capital. 865 Amended
865

See GAO Report. According to the GAO Report, the limited use of Regulation A appears to have
been influenced by multiple factors, including “the type of investors businesses sought to attract,
the process of filing the offering with SEC, state securities laws, and the cost-effectiveness of
Regulation A relative to other SEC exemptions. For example, identifying and addressing
individual state’s securities registration requirements can be both costly and time-consuming for
small businesses, according to research, an organization that advocates for small businesses, and
securities attorneys that GAO interviewed. Additionally, another SEC exemption [Regulation D]
is viewed by securities attorneys that GAO met with as more cost-effective for small businesses...”

240

Regulation A removes the requirement of state qualification for Tier 2 offerings, thereby
eliminating the cost and other burdens of the duplicative review under existing
Regulation A. Issuance costs may also be reduced, as a percentage of proceeds, by
increasing the maximum offering size from $5 million annually under existing
Regulation A, to $20 million for Tier 1 offerings and to $50 million for Tier 2 offerings
relying on amended Regulation A.
We believe that the potential use of amended Regulation A for Tier 2 offerings
depends largely on how issuers perceive, the trade-off between the costs of qualification
and ongoing disclosure requirements and the benefits to issuers from access to a broad
investor base, expansion of the offering size, the preemption of state securities law
registration requirements and the potential for enhanced secondary market liquidity.
With respect to Tier 1 offerings, the potential use of amended Regulation A
depends largely on how issuers perceive the trade-off between state review and
qualification requirements, limited disclosure requirements (with potentially greater
information asymmetry between issuers and investors) and the $20 million maximum
offering size.
We also recognize that the level of investor protection resulting from the final
rules is an important consideration that could affect the ultimate use and success of
amended Regulation A. For example, if preempting state review of Tier 2 offerings, or
not requiring audited financials or ongoing disclosures in Tier 1 offerings, leads to
undisclosed risks or misconduct in the offering process, then investors may be unwilling
to participate in those types of Regulation A offerings. On the other hand, Commission
staff review of the offerings and investment limitations for Tier 2 offerings may mitigate

241

some of these concerns for certain investors.
Many of the potential issuers of securities under amended Regulation A may be
small companies, particularly early-stage and high-growth companies, seeking capital
through equity-based financing because they do not have sufficient collateral or the cash
flows necessary to support the fixed repayment schedule of debt financing. 866 Currently,
these companies often seek capital from institutional or accredited investors through
offerings that are exempt from registration under the Securities Act or through registered
public offerings. In the future, whether issuers opt to rely instead on Regulation A will
depend on the perceived utility of the amended Regulation A exemption compared to:
(i) other available exemptions from registration, and (ii) registered public offerings.
Below we discuss each of these considerations in turn.
Some issuers may prefer to offer securities under amended Regulation A relative
to using other offering methods exempt from registration because of potentially limiting
features associated with the other exemptions. In particular, securities sold pursuant to
the exemptions from registration under Regulation D, 867 which account for a significant
amount of exempt offerings, 868 are generally subject to restrictions on resale or limits on
participation by non-accredited investors in ways that can limit the ability to raise capital.
In contrast to Rule 506 of Regulation D, companies relying on amended Regulation A

866

See Berger, Allen N., and Gregory F. Udell, 1998, The economics of small business finance: The
roles of private equity and debt markets in the financial growth cycle, Journal of Banking and
Finance 22(6), pp. 613–673.

867

17 CFR 230.500 through 230.508.

868

See V. Ivanov, and S. Bauguess, 2013, Capital Raising in the U.S.: An Analysis of Unregistered
Offerings Using the Regulation D Exemption, 2009-2012, available at:
http://www.sec.gov/divisions/riskfin/whitepapers/dera-unregistered-offerings-reg-d.pdf.

242

can sell securities to an unlimited number of non-accredited investors, 869 and the
securities will not be restricted securities for purposes of the federal securities laws,
which will allow for a more diffuse investor base and potential liquidity benefits.
The use of amended Regulation A may also depend on whether companies
considering seeking capital through an exempt offering believe that the benefits from
access to a broader investor base under amended Regulation A offset the costs of
qualification and, with respect to Tier 2 offerings, ongoing disclosure requirements.
Other offering exemptions could remain attractive relative to amended Regulation A. For
example, general solicitation is now permissible under Rule 506(c) of Regulation D.
Issuers relying on Rule 506(c) to solicit offerings may now more easily reach institutional
and accredited investors, making it less necessary for them to seek capital from a broader
non-accredited investor base, especially if trading platforms aimed at accredited investors
in privately placed securities continue to develop. 870
Finally, the conditional exemption from registration of a class of securities under
Section 12(g) available to some Tier 2 issuers may encourage them to pursue a
Regulation A offering as a means to avoid the associated costs and requirements of
Exchange Act registration and reporting. 871 This effect may be limited by the imposition
of the conditions on the Section 12(g) exemption, in particular, the condition limiting the
availability of the exemption to smaller companies that do not exceed certain thresholds
869

Non-accredited investors in Tier 2 offerings will be subject to an investment limitation.

870

For example, “NASDAQ Private Market's affiliated marketplace is an electronic network of
Member Broker-Dealers who provide accredited institutions and individual clients with access to
the market. Companies use a private portal to enable approved parties to access certain
information and transact in its securities.” See NASDAQ Private Market overview, available at:
https://www.nasdaqprivatemarket.com/market/overview.

871

See Section II.B.6.c.

243

for public float or, in the absence of float, revenues. Larger issuers of Regulation A
securities or issuers using Regulation A to raise capital as part of a growth strategy, or
seeking to increase liquidity through a broader investor base, may still be subject to a
Section 12(g) registration requirement in the future.
The trade-offs between amended Regulation A and a registered offering are
somewhat different. In a registered offering, issuers can offer the securities directly to all
potential investors, without a limitation on the aggregate offering amount and with no
resale restrictions. Moreover, securities issued through registered offerings often trade on
national securities exchanges and can offer a degree of liquidity to investors that is
generally not available for securities issued in private offerings. However, the issuance
costs associated with small registered public offerings are generally a significant
percentage of proceeds and issuers in registered offerings must bear the costs arising
from ongoing disclosure requirements under the Exchange Act. These costs are
perceived to be one of the determinants of the relatively low incidence of initial public
offerings (“IPOs”) over the past decade and may be a motivating factor for potential
issuers to prefer offering securities under amended Regulation A. 872 Relative to
registered public offerings, offerings under amended Regulation A will provide smaller
issuers with access to sources of capital without necessarily imposing the full ongoing

872

See IPO Task Force, Rebuilding the IPO On-Ramp (Oct. 20, 2011), available at:
http://www.sec.gov/info/smallbus/acsec/rebuilding_the_ipo_on-ramp.pdf (“IPO Task Force”).
There are other possible explanations for the decline in IPOs, for example, macro-economic
effects on investment opportunities in the economy and the cost of capital. See Lowry, M., 2003,
Why does IPO volume fluctuate so much? Journal of Financial Economics 67(1), pp. 3–40.
Another possible explanation is an increase in the benefits of being acquired by a larger entity
relative to the benefits of operating as an independent firm. See Gao, X., J. Ritter, and Z. Zhu,
2013, Where have all the IPOs gone? Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 48(6), pp.
1663–1692.

244

reporting requirements of the Exchange Act.
The use of amended Regulation A may depend on the extent to which companies
considering a traditional IPO believe that amended Regulation A is a viable alternative.
These potential issuers will need to assess whether the cost savings from reduced
reporting requirements under amended Regulation A offset the potential reduction in
secondary market liquidity compared to registered offerings that meet the listing
requirements of national securities exchanges. In particular, securities listed on a national
securities exchange are likely to benefit from increased liquidity as a result of greater
access to potential investors and a lower level of information asymmetry due to more
extensive reporting requirements. At present, only some securities issued under existing
Regulation A trade over-the-counter, with the majority not known to trade in any
secondary market.
The liquidity trade-off faced by issuers considering amended Regulation A
relative to other exempt or registered offering methods may ultimately center on whether
the ongoing reporting requirements of Tier 2 offerings can generate sufficient
information for secondary markets to provide the intended liquidity benefits. Academic
studies have found a close relationship between disclosure requirements and liquidity. 873
873

For example, one study found improved liquidity at companies that chose to comply with
Exchange Act reporting requirements in order to remain eligible for quotation on OTCBB. See
Bushee, B., and C. Leuz, 2005, Economic consequences of SEC disclosure regulation: Evidence
from the OTC bulletin board, Journal of Accounting and Economics 39(2), pp. 233–264.
Another study found significant decreases in liquidity for issuers that deregistered their securities,
with the subsequent loss of liquidity attributed to decreased disclosure separate from the effect of
delisting from a major exchange. This study also shows that some companies choose to deregister
under Section 12(b) and trade on less liquid OTC markets instead of trading on national securities
exchanges, indicating that, for such companies, the expected costs of reporting under the
Exchange Act outweigh the expected liquidity benefits. See Leuz, C., A. Triantis, and T. Wang,
2008, Why do firms go dark? Causes and economic consequences of voluntary SEC
deregistrations, Journal of Accounting and Economics 45(2-3), pp. 181–208.

245

The disclosure requirements in the final rules seek to balance the burden of disclosure
requirements on issuers and the demand of investors for information by offering issuers a
capital raising option with lower compliance costs while still mandating relevant
information about the issuer and the securities for the market.
Overall, amended Regulation A could increase the aggregate amount of capital
raised in the economy if used by private issuers that have until now been limited in their
ability to raise capital through other types of exempt offerings or by smaller private
issuers that seek a public market for their securities but that are not sufficiently large to
bear the fixed costs of being an Exchange Act reporting company. The impact of
amended Regulation A on capital formation could also be redistributive in nature by
encouraging issuers to shift from one method of capital raising to another. This potential
outcome may have significant net positive effects on capital formation and allocative
efficiency by providing issuers with access to capital at a lower cost than alternative
capital raising methods and by providing investors with additional investment
opportunities.
The net effect of the final rules on capital formation will depend on whether
issuers that rely on amended Regulation A do so in addition to or instead of other
methods of raising capital. The effect will also depend on whether investors find
Regulation A disclosure requirements and investor protections to be sufficient to evaluate
the expected return and risk of such offerings and to choose between offerings reliant on
Regulation A, other exempt offerings and registered offerings. Due to a lack of data, we
are not able to estimate the effects of the final rules on the potential rate of substitution
between alternative methods of raising capital and amended Regulation A and the overall

246

expansion, if any, in capital raising by potential issuers eligible for amended
Regulation A.
B.

Baseline

As we described in the Proposing Release, the baseline for our economic analysis
of amended Regulation A is market conditions as they exist today, in which issuers
seeking to raise capital through securities offerings must register the offer and sale of
securities under the Securities Act unless they can rely on an exemption from registration
under the federal securities laws. 874 The baseline discussion below also includes a
description of investors in offerings of similar amounts and a discussion of the role of
intermediaries that may be affected by the final rules.
1.

Current Methods of Raising up to $50 Million of Capital

Issuers seeking to raise up to $50 million over a twelve-month period are
expected to be affected directly by amended Regulation A. As we described in the
Proposing Release, while there are a number of factors that companies consider when
determining how to raise capital, one of the primary considerations is whether to issue
securities through a registered public offering or through an offering that is exempt from
Securities Act registration and ongoing Exchange Act reporting requirements. The
choice of offering method may depend on the size of the issuer, the type of investors the
issuer seeks to attract and the amount of new capital sought. Registered offerings entail
considerable initial and ongoing costs that can weigh more heavily on smaller issuers,

874

Other rules mandated by the JOBS Act have been proposed but not adopted by the Commission.
The baseline does not account for potential changes that may result from future adoption of
proposed rules.

247

providing incentives to remain private and to raise capital outside of public markets. 875
To the extent that these issuance costs constrain small firms’ access to capital, they may
result in underinvestment in some value-generating projects and thus potentially less
efficient allocation of capital to investment projects. This section describes the various
currently available offering methods and the prevalence of their use.
a.

Exempt Offerings

Currently, small issuers can raise capital by relying on an exemption from
registration under the Securities Act, such as Section 3(a)(11), 876 Section 4(a)(2), 877
Regulation D, 878 and Regulation A. Each of these exemptions, however, has
requirements that may limit its utility for issuers. For example, the exemption under
Securities Act Section 3(a)(11) is limited to intrastate offerings, and Regulation D
offerings may limit or prohibit participation by non-accredited investors. Additionally,
offerings relying on existing Regulation A require preparation of offering materials and
qualification of an offering statement by the Commission and may require qualification
or registration in multiple states. 879 The table below summarizes the main features of
each exemption.
875

See IPO Task Force.

876

Under Securities Act Section 3(a)(11), except as expressly provided, the provisions of the
Securities Act (including Section 5 registration requirement) do not apply to a security that is “part
of an issue offered and sold only to persons resident within a single State or Territory, where the
issuer of such security is a person resident and doing business within, or, if a corporation,
incorporated by and doing business within, such State or Territory.” 15 U.S.C 77c(a)(3)(a)(11).

877

Securities Act Section 4(a)(2) provides that the provisions of Section 5 shall not apply to
“transactions by an issuer not involving a public offering.” 15 U.S.C. 77d(4)(a)(2).

878

Regulation D contains rules providing exemptions and safe harbors from the Securities Act’s
registration requirements, allowing some companies to offer and sell their securities without
having to register the offering with the Commission. 17 CFR 230.504, 505, 506.

879

See Campbell, R., 2005, Regulation A: Small business’ search for a moderate capital, Delaware
Journal of Corporate Law 31(1), pp. 77–123. See also GAO Report.

248

Type of
Offering

Offering
Limit 880

Solicitation

Issuer and Investor
Requirements

Filing
Requirement

Resale
Restrictions

Blue Sky
Law
Preemption
No

Section
3(a)(11)

None

No limitations

All issuers and investors
must be resident in state

None

Restricted in
some cases 881

Section
4(a)(2)

None

No general
solicitation

Transactions by an issuer
not involving any public
offering 882

None

Restricted
securities

No

Regulation
A 883

$5 million
with $1.5
million
limit on
secondary
sales

Testing the
waters
permitted
before filing

No

No

Rule 504
Regulation
D

$1 million

Restricted in
some cases 886

No

Type of
Offering

Offering
Limit 887

General
solicitation
permitted in
some cases 884
Solicitation

U.S. or Canadian issuers,
File
excluding investment
testing the
companies, blank-check
waters
companies, reporting
materials,
companies, and issuers of Form 1-A,
fractional undivided
Form 2-A
interests in oil or gas
rights, or similar interests
in other mineral rights
Excludes investment
File Form
companies, blank-check
D 885
companies, and Exchange
Act reporting companies
Issuer and Investor
Filing
Requirements
Requirement

Rule 505
Regulation
D

$5 million

Unlimited accredited
investors and up to 35
non-accredited investors

Restricted
securities

No general
solicitation

File Form
D 888

Resale
Restrictions

Blue Sky
Law
Preemption
No

880

Aggregate offering limit on securities sold within a twelve-month period.

881

Resale restrictions are determined by state securities laws, which typically restrict in-state resales
for a one-year period.

882

Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act provides a statutory exemption for "transactions by an issuer
not involving any public offering." See SEC v. Ralston Purina Co., 346 U.S. 119 (1953) (holding
that an offering to those who are shown to be able to fend for themselves is a transaction “not
involving any public offering.”)

883

This description is based on Regulation A before the adoption of the final rules today.

884

No general solicitation or advertising is permitted unless the offering is registered in a state
requiring the use of a substantive disclosure document or sold under a state exemption for sales to
accredited investors with general solicitation.

885

Filing is not a condition of the exemption.

886

Restricted unless the offering is registered in a state requiring the use of a substantive disclosure
document or sold under a state exemption for sale to accredited investors.

887

Aggregate offering limit on securities sold within a twelve-month period.

888

Filing is not a condition of the exemption.

249

Rule 506
Regulation
D

None

General
solicitation
permitted in
some cases 889

Unlimited accredited
investors. Limitations on
non-accredited
investors 890

File Form
D 891

Restricted
securities

Yes

While we do not have data on offerings relying on an exemption under
Section 3(a)(11) or Section 4(a)(2), available data related to Regulation D and
Regulation A filings allow us to gauge how frequently issuers currently use these
exemptions when raising capital.
i.

Regulation A Offerings

As we described in the Proposing Release, issuers rarely rely on existing
Regulation A to raise capital. The chart below, from the GAO Report shows the number
of filed and qualified Regulation A offerings in fiscal years 1992 to 2011. 892
Data from GAO Report: Regulation A offerings filed and qualified, 1992-2011

889

No general solicitation or advertising is permitted under Rule 506(b). General solicitation and
general advertising permitted under Rule 506(c), provided all purchasers are accredited investors
and the issuer takes reasonable steps to verify accredited investor status.

890

Under Rule 506(b), offerings may involve an unlimited number of accredited investors and up to
35 non-accredited investors. Under Rule 506(c), all purchasers must be accredited investors.

891

Filing is not a condition of the exemption.

892

For the purposes of this chart, a Regulation A offering is considered “filed” when the Commission
receives a potential issuer’s offering materials through Form 1-A. A Regulation A offering is
considered qualified after the Commission staff has reviewed the offering materials and
determined that all conditions have been met. Therefore, offerings that are filed and not qualified
are either pending, withdrawn, or abandoned.

250

In calendar years 2012 to 2014, 26 Regulation A offerings, excluding
amendments, were qualified by the Commission. 893
Section 402 of the JOBS Act required the GAO to study the impact of state
securities laws on Regulation A offerings. The GAO examined: (1) trends in Regulation
A filings, (2) differences in state registration of Regulation A filings, and (3) factors that
may have affected the number of Regulation A filings. In its July 2012 report on
Regulation A, the GAO cited four factors affecting the use of Regulation A offerings:
(1) costs associated with compliance with state securities regulations, or blue sky laws;
(2) the availability of alternative offering methods exempt from registration, such as
Regulation D offerings; (3) costs associated with the Commission’s filing and
qualification process; and (4) the type of investors businesses sought to attract.
As identified by the GAO, compliance with state securities laws is one of the
factors that impacts the use of existing Regulation A. The GAO did not provide an

893

In cases in which an issuer made multiple Form 1-A filings over this time period, only the first
qualified offering by that issuer was included in the number of qualified Regulation A offerings.
The estimate also excludes amendments filed on Form 1-A/A, including post-qualification
amendments to earlier Form 1-A filings, as well as abandoned and withdrawn filings.

251

estimate of the compliance costs. For issuers seeking to offer securities in multiple states,
differences in securities laws and applicable procedures across states may result in
significant legal costs 894 and a time consuming process for issuers, which could adversely
affect their efforts to raise capital in a timely and cost-effective manner. NASAA has
recently initiated a Coordinated Review Program for Regulation A offerings. 895 Only a
limited number of issuers have undergone state review through this process to date, so we
are unable to conclude whether it may result in lower costs or a shorter amount of review
time than was the case prior to its inception.
The GAO also identified costs associated with the Commission’s filing and
qualification process for Regulation A offerings as another factor contributing to its
limited current use. While existing Regulation A permits offerings to an unlimited
number of non-accredited investors, the total offering amount must not exceed $5 million
in a twelve-month period, limiting the opportunity to scale the fixed component of these
costs as a percentage of proceeds.
As described above, a business that relies on Regulation A must file an offering
statement with the Commission that must be qualified by Commission staff before the
offering can proceed. From 2002 through 2011, Regulation A filings took an average of
228 days to qualify. 896 Average time to qualification exceeded 300 days in 2012-2014. 897
894

See discussion in Section III.I below.

895

A description of NASAA’s coordinated review program can be found at:
http://www.nasaa.org/industry-resources/corporation-finance/coordinated-review/regulation-aofferings/. See discussion in Section III.I below.

896

See GAO Report.

897

This estimate is generated by staff from the Commission’s Division of Economic and Risk
Analysis using Form 1-A filings and is determined as the difference between the filing date for the
initial Form 1-A filing and the final disposition date for the final Form 1-A or 1-A/A filing
through which the offering was qualified.

252

Factors that affect the time to qualification include the paper filing method, quality of the
initial filing, time taken by the Commission staff, and time taken by the issuer to provide
required information or address questions from previous correspondence with the
Commission staff.
Our analysis of the Regulation A filings qualified between 2002 and 2014 shows
that approximately half of the issuers operated in the financial industry and the majority
of offerings involved equity securities. Offerings with affiliate sales were rare, likely due
not only to the requirement of the existing Regulation A that the issuer have net income
from continuing operations in the prior two years but also due to the perceptions that
adverse selection concerns may limit investor demand in securities offerings with affiliate
sales. 898
ii.

Regulation D Offerings

Based on the information available to us, it appears that the most common way to
issue up to $50 million of securities is pursuant to an offering under a Regulation D
exemption. Eligible issuers can rely on Rule 504 to raise up to $1 million within a
twelve-month period, on Rule 505 to raise up to $5 million within a twelve-month period,
and on Rule 506 to raise an unlimited amount of capital. In total, based on the analysis of
offering amounts reported on Form D in calendar year 2014, Regulation D offerings
accounted for over one trillion dollars. Most issuers choose to raise capital by relying on
Rule 506, even when their offering size would have potentially permitted reliance on
898

See Bettis, J., J. Coles, and M. Lemmon, 2000, Corporate policies restricting trading by insiders,
Journal of Financial Economics 57, pp. 191–220 (discussing adverse selection issues and
corporate policies restricting trading by insiders. See also Michaely, R., and W. Shaw, 1994, The
pricing of initial public offerings: Tests of adverse-selection and signaling theories, Review of
Financial Studies 7(2), pp. 279–319 (analyzing the role of adverse selection and the possibility of
informed trading in IPOs).

253

Rule 504 or Rule 505. 899 For example, in 2014, we identified 11,228 Regulation D
offerings that would have been potentially eligible to be conducted under amended
Regulation A. Of those, 10,671 offerings relied on Rule 506, 376 on Rule 504, and 181
on Rule 505. We summarize their characteristics in the table below.
Regulation D offerings in 2014 by issuers that would be eligible to rely on amended
Regulation A 900
Offering size
Current Reg A Eligible
Amended Reg A Eligible
Number of filings
Average offering amount ($ million)
Offerings with non-accredited investors
Median number of investors

Rule 504
≤$1M
Yes
Yes
376
0.4
58%
3

Rule 505
≤$5M
Yes
Yes
181
1.4
31%
7

≤$20M
Up to $5M
Yes
10,071
3.2
6%
6

Rule 506
$20-50M
No
Yes
600
31.6
2%
9

As shown in the table above, approximately 95% of Regulation D offerings that
would be eligible for amended Regulation A relied on Rule 506. A comparison of Rule
506 offerings over $20 million to those below $20 million shows that larger offerings
generally had a higher number of investors and were less likely to have non-accredited
investors.
Additional data on Regulation D offerings that would have been eligible for
amended Regulation A exemption is provided in the graph below, which displays the
offering size distribution of Rule 506 offerings and other Regulation D offerings that
would have been potentially eligible for the amended Regulation A exemption in
899

This tendency could, in part, be attributed to two features of Rule 506: state securities law
preemption and unlimited offering amount. See also GAO Report.

900

Based on an analysis performed by staff in the Division of Economic and Risk Analysis of Form
D filings submitted for calendar year 2014. The numbers exclude offerings by reporting
companies, non-Canadian foreign issuers and pooled investment funds, as well as offerings of
interests in claims on natural resources, which are not eligible for amended Regulation A. We do
not have a scalable way of excluding blank check companies, which are also not eligible for
amended Regulation A, from this sample, which leads to a higher estimate of the number of
issuers that would be eligible to rely on amended Regulation A.

254

calendar year 2014. Approximately 95% of Regulation D offerings that would have been
potentially eligible for amended Regulation A had offering amounts below $20 million.
Distribution of offering size of Rule 506 offerings and other Regulation D offerings
in 2014 by issuers that would be eligible to rely on amended Regulation A 901

Approximately seventy percent of Regulation D issuers that would be eligible for
amended Regulation A declined to disclose their revenue range in their Form D filings
for 2014. Of the remaining 30%, 13% reported “no revenues.” The portion of issuers
with no revenues is noteworthy because it may be more difficult for issuers without
regular cash flows to obtain debt financing (without collateral or a guarantee).
b.

Registered Offerings

Issuers may seek to raise capital by registering the offer and sale of securities
901

Based on an analysis performed by staff in the Division of Economic and Risk Analysis of Form
D filings submitted for calendar year 2014.

255

under the Securities Act. In calendar year 2014, using data from Thomson Reuters, we
identified 75 IPOs and 246 seasoned equity offerings (SEOs) of up to $50 million by
issuers that would have been potentially eligible for amended Regulation A. 902
There has been a general decline in the number of IPOs, particularly those
undertaken by small firms, since the late 1990s. 903 One possible reason behind the
relatively low number of IPOs under $50 million is that public offerings may be too
costly to be a viable capital raising option for smaller issuers. 904 Fees paid to
underwriters average 7% for IPOs, 5% for SEOs, and 1% for bond issuances. 905 Issuers
conducting registered public offerings also incur Commission registration fees and
FINRA filing fees, legal and accounting fees and expenses, transfer agent and registrar
fees, costs associated with periodic reporting requirements and other regulatory
requirements and various other fees. 906 Two surveys cited in the IPO Task Force report

902

The sample excludes offerings from non-Canadian foreign issuers, blank check companies, and
investment companies, which would not be eligible to rely on amended Regulation A. Offerings
with gross proceeds below $1,000 are excluded to minimize measurement error. Issuers of
interests in claims on natural resources, which also would not be eligible for amended Regulation
A, were not separately eliminated due to data constraints.

903

See IPO Task Force. However, a recent study notes that the decline in IPOs has been partly
reversed in 2012–2014. See Dambra, M., L. Field, and M. Gustafson, 2014, The JOBS Act and
IPO volume: Evidence that disclosure costs affect the IPO decision, Journal of Financial
Economics (forthcoming), available at:
http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2459591.

904

Other potential reasons, such as macro-economic conditions, are discussed below.

905

See Chen, H., and J. Ritter, 2000, The seven percent solution, Journal of Finance 55(3), pp.
1105−1131; Abrahamson, M., T. Jenkinson, and H. Jones, 2011, Why don't U.S. issuers demand
European fees for IPOs? Journal of Finance 66(6), pp. 2055–2082; Corwin, S., 2000, The
determinants of underpricing for seasoned equity offers, Journal of Finance 58(5), pp. 2249−2279;
Huang, R., and D. Zhang, 2011, Managing underwriters and the marketing of Seasoned Equity
Offerings, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 46(1), pp. 141–170; Fang, L., 2005,
Investment bank reputation and the price and quality of underwriting services, Journal of Finance
60(6), pp. 2729−2761.

906

According to the survey cited in the IPO Task Force report, 92% of the surveyed CEOs listed the
“Administrative Burden of Public Reporting” as being one of the most significant challenges of an
IPO. See IPO Task Force.

256

concluded that regulatory compliance costs of IPOs average $2.5 million initially,
followed by an average ongoing cost of $1.5 million per year. 907
Because of the fixed-cost nature of some of the compliance-related fees
associated with public offerings, compliance-related fees as a percentage of offering
proceeds tend to decline as offering size increases, as illustrated in the table below.
Offerings below $50 million, and especially offerings below $20 million, incur
significantly higher registration, legal and accounting-related fees, as a percentage of
proceeds.
Certain non-underwriter IPO-related fees as a percentage of offering proceeds from
1992-2014. 908
Offering

Offering

Offering

≤$20M

$20-$50M

>$50M

SEC Registration Fees

0.11%

0.04%

0.03%

Blue Sky Fees

0.35%

0.05%

0.02%

Accounting Fees

1.38%

0.84%

0.56%

Legal Fees

2.32%

1.18%

0.81%

In addition to compliance costs, there are other possible explanations for the
907

See IPO Task Force. However, some studies conclude that the decline in U.S. small-firm IPOs
predated the adoption of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. See Gao, X., J. Ritter, and Z. Zhu, 2013, Where
have all the IPOs gone? Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 48(6), pp. 1663–1692. See
also Doidge, C., A. Karolyi, and R. Stulz, 2013, The U.S. left behind? Financial globalization and
the rise of IPOs outside the U.S., Journal of Financial Economics 110(3), pp. 546–573.

908

Fee information is compiled from Thomson Reuters SDC data on IPOs for 1992–2014. The
sample excludes offerings from non-Canadian foreign issuers, blank-check companies, and
investment companies. Averages are computed based on observations with non-missing data
(where a particular type of fees is separately reported). Offerings with gross proceeds below
$1,000 are excluded to minimize measurement error.
The analysis includes legal, accounting, blue sky, and registration fees, to which we collectively
refer as “compliance fees”. Blue Sky Fees denotes fees and expenses related to compliance with
state securities regulations. We note that Blue Sky fees associated with small registered offerings
may over- or under-estimate similar expenses for Regulation A offerings of the same size.

257

trends in IPOs. A decline in public offerings also could result from macro-economic
effects on investment opportunities and the cost of capital 909 or an increase in the
economies of scope from being acquired by a larger entity relative to the benefits of
operating as an independent firm. 910
Several other trade-offs may affect an issuer’s willingness to pursue an IPO.
According to the IPO Task Force survey, 88% of CEOs that had completed an IPO listed
“Managing Public Communications Restrictions” as one of the most significant
challenges brought on by becoming a reporting company. 911 Additionally, issuers in
certain industries, such as high-technology sectors, may be sensitive to the costs of
disclosure of proprietary information and may find private capital sources more
attractive. 912 Access to capital may be especially time-sensitive for the types of issuers
most likely to conduct small offerings, such as startups and small businesses, rendering
these issuers unwilling to go through a potentially lengthy registration process. Directors
and officers of small issuers also may not want to subject themselves to the increased
liability and takeover threats that come with dispersed ownership. 913
The cost and disclosure requirements of IPOs have been affected by the recent
adoption of scaled reporting requirements for emerging growth companies (EGCs) under
Title I of the JOBS Act, which can ease the compliance obligations of certain issuers in
909

See Lowry, M., 2003, Why does IPO volume fluctuate so much? Journal of Financial
Economics 67(1), pp. 3–40.

910

See Gao, X., J. Ritter, and Z. Zhu, 2013, Where have all the IPOs gone? Journal of Financial and
Quantitative Analysis 48(6), pp. 1663–1692.

911

See IPO Task Force.

912

See Verrecchia, R., 2001, Essays on disclosure, Journal of Accounting and Economics 32, pp. 97–
180.

913

See Burkart, M., D. Gromb, and F. Panunzi, 2000, Agency conflicts in public and negotiated
transfers of corporate control, Journal of Finance 55(2), pp. 647–677.

258

registered offerings. There is some evidence that Title I has contributed to an increase in
IPO volume in 2012–2014, particularly in industries with high proprietary disclosure
costs, such as biotechnology and pharmaceuticals. 914 Some recent studies, however,
suggest that the overall cost of going public for EGCs has not decreased whereas the
indirect cost (e.g., IPO underpricing) has increased. 915
c.

Private Debt Financing

Equity, including principal owner equity, accounts for a significant proportion of
the total capital of a typical small business. Other sources of capital for small businesses
include loans from commercial banks, finance companies and other financial institutions,
and trade credit. 916
Borrowing is relatively costly for many early-stage issuers as they may have low
revenues, irregular cash-flow projections, insufficient assets to offer as collateral and
high external monitoring costs. 917 For example, a small growth company, such as a
914

See Dambra, M., L. Field, and M. Gustafson, 2014, The JOBS Act and IPO volume: Evidence that
disclosure costs affect the IPO decision, Journal of Financial Economics (forthcoming), available
at: http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2459591.

915

See Chaplinsky, S., K. Hanley, and S. K. Moon, 2014, The JOBS Act and the costs of going
public, Working paper, available at: http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2492241;
Barth, M., W. Landsman, and D. Taylor, 2014, The JOBS Act and information uncertainty in IPO
firms, Working paper, available at: http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2465927;
Westfall, T.J., and T. C. Omer, 2014, The impact of emerging growth company status on initial
public offering valuation and the associated auditor risk and effort, Working paper, available at:
http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2512605.

916

See Berger, A., and G. Udell, 2006, Small business credit availability and relationship lending:
The importance of bank organisational structure, Economic Journal 112(477), pp. 32–53. In this
study, equity accounted for approximately half of the total capital, including approximately 31%
(45% for the smallest firms—that is, those, with less than $1 million in revenues or less than
twenty employees) attributed to the principal owner. The remainder came from debt financing,
with about one quarter accounted for by loans from commercial banks, finance companies and
other financial institutions, and another 16% comprised of trade credit. The study was conducted
based on the 1993 edition of the Federal Reserve Board’s Survey of Small Business Finances,
which collects information on small businesses in the United States.

917

See Robb, A., and D. Robinson, 2014, The capital structure decisions of new firms, Review of
Financial Studies 27(1), pp. 153–179.

259

technology or life sciences startup, without steady revenues or substantial tangible assets
is likely to have trouble obtaining a loan or a line of credit from a bank because it would
have difficulty proving its ability to repay. Financial institutions generally require such
small business borrowers to provide collateral or a guarantee by owners, 918 which some
issuers may be unable or reluctant to provide.
2.

Investors

There are currently no limitations on who can invest in existing Regulation A
offerings. In considering the baseline for the amendments to Regulation A, we also
examine the investors in other existing methods of raising up to $50 million in capital
because the final rules we are adopting may impact an issuer’s choice of offering method
and the potential investor base of the offering. For example, as discussed above, while
there are no limitations on the number of non-accredited investors that can invest in
offerings made pursuant to Rule 504 of Regulation D and in registered public offerings,
offerings made pursuant to Rule 505 and Rule 506(b) of Regulation D are limited to a
maximum of 35 non-accredited investors. Issuers making offerings pursuant to Rule
506(c) of Regulation D must take reasonable steps to verify that investors are accredited
investors.
While non-accredited investors can participate in Regulation D offerings, subject
to limitations described above, data from Form D filings suggests that non-accredited

918

Approximately 92% of all small business debt to financial institutions is secured, and owners of
the firm guarantee about 52% of that debt. See Berger, A., and G. Udell, 1995, Relationship
lending and lines of credit in small firm finance, Journal of Business 68(3), pp. 351–381. Some
studies of small business lending also document the creation of local captive markets with higher
borrowing costs for small, opaque firms as a result of strategic use of soft information by local
lenders. See Agarwal, Sumit, and Robert Hauswald, 2010, Distance and private information in
lending, Review of Financial Studies 13(7), pp. 2757–2788.

260

investors are not significantly involved in Regulation D offerings of up to $50 million.
Offerings involving non-accredited investors are typically smaller than those that do not
involve non-accredited investors. In 2014, we estimate that approximately 152,641
investors participated in Regulation D offerings of less than $50 million by issuers that
would be eligible for amended Regulation A. 919 Such offerings had an average of 13.6
investors per offering. Approximately 8% of such offerings involved one or more nonaccredited investors.
The total number of households estimated to qualify as accredited investors is
substantially larger than the total number of investors reported to have participated in an
unregistered offering. As of 2013, we estimated that over 9 million U.S. households
qualified as accredited investors based on the net worth standard alone, approximately 8
million U.S. households qualified as accredited investors based on the income standard
alone, and approximately 12.4 million U.S. households qualified based on either the
income standard or the net worth standard. 920
3.

Financial Intermediaries

Regulation A amendments may also affect financial intermediaries that may
become involved in the placement and quotation of Regulation A securities. Currently,
there is limited involvement of intermediaries in a Regulation A offering. However,
financial intermediaries are used in certain of the other types of offerings, including
registered offerings and certain exempt offerings. To the extent that the amendments to
919

Based on an analysis by staff from the Commission’s Division of Economic and Risk Analysis of
initial Form D filings submitted during calendar year 2014. The estimated number of investors
likely exceeds the actual number of Regulation D investors because investors could have
participated in more than one offering.

920

These estimates are based on an analysis by staff from the Commission’s Division of Economic
and Risk Analysis, using the Federal Reserve Board’s 2013 Survey of Consumer Finances.

261

Regulation A that we are adopting today impact the number and the overall amount of
capital raised in other types of offerings, financial intermediaries may be affected. For
example, in registered offerings, underwriters are frequently used to identify potential
investors and are primarily responsible for facilitating a successful distribution of the
offered securities. While intermediaries are used less frequently in Regulation D
offerings, they play a role in some offerings. We estimate that fewer than 10% of
Regulation D offerings that would have been potentially eligible under amended
Regulation A involved an intermediary (the estimate is based on information about sales
compensation or sales compensation recipients reported in connection with the
offering). 921
C.

Scope of Exemption
1.

Eligible Issuers

Consistent with the restrictions in existing Regulation A, the final rules exclude
non-Canadian foreign issuers, investment companies (including BDCs), Exchange Act
reporting companies, blank check companies, and issuers of fractional undivided interests
in oil or gas rights, or similar interests in other mineral rights, from relying on the
exemption.
The final rules also exclude two additional categories of issuers: (i) issuers that
are or have been subject to a denial, suspension, or revocation order by the Commission
pursuant to Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act within the five years immediately
preceding the filing of the offering statement, and (ii) issuers that are required to, but that

921

Based on an analysis performed by staff in the Division of Economic and Risk Analysis of Form
D filings for calendar year 2014.

262

have not, filed with the Commission the ongoing reports required by the final rules
during the two years immediately preceding the filing of an offering statement.
Excluding issuers that have not complied with Regulation A’s ongoing reporting
requirements in the two-year period immediately preceding the filing of a new offering
statement will incentivize issuers that intend to rely on amended Regulation A exemption
in the future to comply with its ongoing reporting requirements. Similarly, excluding
issuers that were subject to a denial, suspension, or revocation order by the Commission
pursuant to Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act within the five years immediately
preceding the filing of the offering statement will incentivize registrants to comply with
their obligations under the Exchange Act, including their ongoing reporting obligations,
and will prevent issuers with a history of non-compliance from relying on Regulation A
after they terminate or suspend their Exchange Act reporting obligations. At the same
time, neither of these exclusions should result in additional compliance costs for issuers
because they do not impose any reporting or other requirements on issuers beyond those
already mandated by existing regulations.
We recognize that excluding these additional categories of issuers would have an
effect on capital formation as it could prevent Regulation A offerings by issuers who
otherwise might have utilized the Regulation A exemption rather than other methods of
capital raising. However, to the extent that the information contained in required past
reports provides investors in follow-on offerings of Regulation A securities with a more
complete picture of the issuer’s business and financial condition and is relevant for
current investment decisions, the exclusion of issuers that are not compliant with
Regulation A’s reporting requirements and issuers subject to an order by the Commission

263

pursuant to Section 12(j) should therefore enhance investor protection and the
informational efficiency of prices of Regulation A securities by allowing investors to
make better informed investment decisions. Moreover, we believe that these additional
issuer eligibility requirements will complement each other in facilitating compliance with
our rules.
To the extent that more issuers use the amended Regulation A exemption, the
final rules may promote competition among eligible issuers in the market for investor
capital and in the market for goods and services. The final rules may also promote
competition in the product market between small issuers and larger issuers.
As suggested by some commenters, we could have expanded the categories of
eligible Regulation A issuers to include non-Canadian foreign issuers, 922 blank check
companies, 923 BDCs, 924 and issuers of fractional undivided interests in oil or gas rights,
or similar interests in other mineral rights. 925 These alternatives could potentially
enhance capital formation and competition. 926
However, it may be potentially difficult and costly for investors, especially less
sophisticated investors, to determine the valuation and risk of securities of non-Canadian
foreign issuers, blank check companies and issuers of fractional undivided interests in oil
922

See ABA SIL Letter; Andreessen/Cowen Letter; BDO Letter; McCarter & English Letter; OTC
Markets Letter; Richardson Patel Letter; SVB Letter; SVGS Letter.

923

See Gilman Law Letter; IPA Letter; Richardson Patel Letter.

924

See ABA BLS Letter; CFIRA Letter 1; Commonwealth Fund Letters 1 and 2; KVCF Letter;
Milken Institute Letter; MoFo Letter; REISA Letter; SBIA Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co Letter.
Most of these commenters noted that BDCs serve an important function in facilitating small or
emerging business capital formation or in providing a bridge from private to public markets.

925

See REISA Letter.

926

If eligibility under amended Regulation A had been extended to investment companies and BDCs,
and such companies obtained a lower cost of capital and passed savings through to the companies
in which they invest, the latter could also realize indirect capital formation benefits.

264

or gas rights, or similar interests in other mineral rights, so extending eligibility to such
issuers may also decrease investor protection. To the extent that such information
asymmetries are not fully mitigated by initial and ongoing Regulation A disclosure
requirements, which are generally less extensive than the disclosure requirements for
registered offerings, the prices of Regulation A securities of these issuers could be less
informationally efficient. Along the same lines, we believe the specialized nature of
capital formation and investment strategies at BDCs warrants disclosures that are more
specialized than what is required by existing or amended Regulation A for a proper
understanding of an investment in the securities of these types of issuers.
We also could have expanded the categories of eligible Regulation A issuers to
include issuers that are subject to the ongoing reporting requirements of Section 13 or
15(d) of the Exchange Act (“reporting companies”), as suggested by some
commenters. 927 Although reporting companies sometimes conduct offerings exempt
from registration, we are unable to estimate the number of reporting companies that
would use the amended Regulation A exemption if it were made available to them. We
recognize that some reporting companies may have benefited from this alternative due to,
for example, the lower costs of preparation of a Regulation A offering statement than a
registration statement. 928 Additionally, some reporting companies whose securities are

927

Three commenters recommended allowing Exchange Act reporting companies that are current in
their reporting obligations to conduct Tier 2 offerings. See Andreessen/Cowen Letter; BIO Letter;
OTC Markets Letter. One of these three commenters limited its recommendation to companies
with a non-affiliate float of less than $250 million. See BIO Letter. The other two commenters
further commented that Exchange Act reporting should satisfy Regulation A reporting obligations
if the Commission adopted their recommendation. See Andreessen/Cowen Letter and OTC
Markets Letter.

928

According to one commenter, Form S-1 registration may be too costly for micro-cap companies,
and the eligibility requirements of Form S-3 limit primary capital raising for issuers with a small

265

not listed on a national securities exchange could potentially benefit from savings of time
and dollar expenditures that may result from the state securities law preemption in Tier 2
offerings. However, because Exchange Act disclosure requirements for reporting
companies are more extensive than those under amended Regulation A, reporting
companies would not be able to derive the benefit of reduced ongoing reporting costs
under amended Regulation A. Other commenters suggested imposing more restrictive
issuer eligibility criteria, by excluding issuers that are not “operating companies” 929 or
excluding shell companies and issuers of penny stock. 930 While these additional
exclusions may create some investor protection benefits, such additional exclusions
would be likely to limit capital formation and competition among small issuers, which are
more likely to fall into the penny stock category, or some early-stage companies, which
may not meet the definition of an “operating company.” Overall, due to the implications
of extending issuer eligibility before the Commission has the ability to assess the impact
of the changes to Regulation A being adopted today, we believe that it is prudent to defer
consideration of potential changes to the categories of eligible issuers until we have the
opportunity to observe the use of the amended Regulation A exemption and assess any
new market practices as they develop.
2.

Eligible Securities

Consistent with the statute, the final rules apply to offerings of equity securities,
debt securities, and securities convertible or exchangeable to equity interests, for

public float. See Andreessen/Cowen Letter. But see earlier discussion of indirect costs of issuance
for issuers using scaled disclosures in Section III.B.1.b.
929

See CFIRA Letter 1 and WR Hambrecht + Co Letter.

930

See ABA BLS Letter and MoFo Letter.

266

example, warrants, including any guarantees of such securities. 931
Similar to the proposal, the final rules exclude offerings of asset-backed securities
(“ABS”) from eligibility for Regulation A. As discussed above, we believe that ABS
issuers are not the intended beneficiaries of the mandated expansion of Regulation A.
ABS are subject to the provisions of Regulation AB and other rules specifically tailored
to the offering process, disclosure and reporting requirements for such securities, and we
do not believe that Regulation A’s requirements are suitable for offerings of such
securities. ABS are designed to pool the risk of already-issued loans and other financial
assets and, in this respect, do not constitute new capital formation. We recognize that, in
certain cases, permitting ABS offerings to be conducted under Regulation A could lower
the cost of capital for underlying borrowers whose loans are eventually securitized by
ABS issuers and therefore indirectly facilitate capital formation. 932 In practice, however,
the vast majority of ABS offerings are much larger than the maximum allowable offering
size under amended Regulation A. 933 As a result, we believe that excluding ABS
offerings from eligibility for Regulation A likely will not have a significant adverse effect
on capital formation.
3.

Offering Limitations and Secondary Sales

931

See discussion in Section II.B.2 above.

932

This indirect effect may result because, due to bank accounting standards and capital
requirements, securitization allows originators to move assets off the balance sheet, freeing up
capital for additional loans. The resulting increase in capital available for lending could lead to
lower borrowing costs for all borrowers down the capital supply chain. See Pennacchi, G., 1995,
Loan sales and the cost of bank capital, Journal of Finance 43(2), pp. 375–396; Carlstrom, C., and
K. Samolyk, 1995, Loan sales as a response to market-based capital constraints, Journal of
Banking and Finance 19(3), pp. 627–646.

933

Our analysis indicates that from 2011–2013, approximately 2.9% of ABS issuances were below
$50 million. This estimate uses the AB Alert and CM Alert databases and includes only private
label ABS deals.

267

a.

Offering Limitations

As explained above, the final rules introduce two tiers of offerings compared with
the baseline of one tier in existing Regulation A. The tiered approach in the final rules
allows us to scale regulatory requirements based on offering size, to give issuers more
flexibility in raising capital under Regulation A, and to provide appropriately tailored
protections for investors in each tier. Issuers seeking to raise a larger amount of capital
are, among other things, required to provide more extensive initial and ongoing
disclosures, but are also able to take advantage of the larger maximum offering size in
Tier 2 (up to $50 million in a twelve-month period). In light of this larger maximum
offering size, the final rules impose additional disclosure requirements and other
provisions to provide protection to investors in Tier 2 offerings. Issuers seeking a smaller
amount of capital retain the advantage of more scaled disclosures required in Tier 1
offerings but must comply with a lower offering size limit.
We recognize that the cost associated with greater disclosure requirements for
offerings made under Tier 2 in amounts up to $20 million may place Tier 2 issuers at a
relative competitive disadvantage as compared to issuers seeking to raise an amount
below $20 million in a Tier 1 offering. Such potential competitive effects are likely to be
mitigated by the ability of issuers to evaluate the trade-off between the costs associated
with more extensive disclosure requirements for Tier 2 offerings and the benefit of a
potentially higher securities valuation stemming from a reduction in information
asymmetry between issuers and investors due to the more extensive disclosure
requirements for Tier 2 offerings.
In a change from the proposal, and in line with the suggestions of some

268

commenters, the final rules raise the Tier 1 maximum offering size from $5 million to
$20 million in a twelve-month period in order to provide smaller issuers with additional
flexibility to meet their financing needs. 934 We expect the higher Tier 1 maximum
offering size will facilitate capital formation under Regulation A for those issuers seeking
to raise between $5 and $20 million in a twelve-month period. We expect the resulting
capital formation benefits to be greater for smaller issuers for which the incremental costs
of the Tier 2 disclosure regime—relative to the costs of complying with state
registration—exceed the benefits of more extensive disclosure.
Compared to the baseline, the increase in the maximum offering size to
$20 million for Tier 1 offerings and the creation of Tier 2 with the maximum offering
size of $50 million will provide issuers with increased flexibility with regard to their
offering size and should lower the burden of fixed costs associated with conducting
Regulation A offerings as a percentage of proceeds. 935 This could make amended
Regulation A more cost effective and attractive to issuers than existing Regulation A,
resulting in potential favorable effects on capital formation and competition. The
increase in the maximum offering size could also make Regulation A attractive to a
broader range of issuers, including larger issuers. This could provide investors with a
broader range of investment opportunities in the Regulation A market and potentially
result in a more efficient allocation of investor capital.
The increased maximum offering size could also contribute to improved liquidity
934

Some commenters recommended raising the Tier 1 offering limitation to $10 million or more. See
Guzik Letter 1 and ICBA Letter.

935

To the extent that issuers in Tier 2 offerings face additional costs due to revised disclosure
requirements under amended Regulation A, issuance costs as a percentage of proceeds may remain
unchanged or may increase.

269

for Regulation A securities, to the extent that larger issues may encourage greater breadth
of equity ownership, assuming sufficient secondary market demand develops. 936
Improved liquidity would enable investors in Regulation A offerings to unwind their
investments more easily and at a lower cost, thus making such investments more
attractive to potential investors. On the other hand, if investor demand for securities
offered under amended Regulation A is low, this could negatively affect security prices
and liquidity.
If investor demand for Regulation A securities and information about issuers is
sufficient, the increase in maximum offering size could also contribute to the
development of intermediation services, such as market making, and to the coverage of
Regulation A securities by analysts. 937 It is possible that an underwriting market may
develop to provide Regulation A offering services, especially in larger Tier 2 offerings.
The presence of these services could have a positive impact on investor participation and
aftermarket liquidity of Regulation A securities, further increasing demand for such
services. It is also possible, however, that investor demand for Regulation A securities
will not expand sufficiently to make such services economically feasible.
Finally, the increase in the maximum offering size could result in increased

936

We recognize the possibility that, despite the absence of resale restrictions, even large Regulation
A offerings with heavy investor participation may fail to attain sufficient liquidity due to a lack of
secondary trading and a lack of breadth of institutional ownership, and thus may be associated
with a higher cost of capital due to the illiquidity premium. In such a scenario, some issuers and
investors may still benefit from having access to a type of offering that provides greater liquidity
than Regulation D securities offerings although less liquidity than registered offerings of securities
listed on major national exchanges.

937

Academic studies show that firm size is an important predictor of analyst coverage, so if larger
issuers are attracted to the Regulation A market, they may be more likely to be covered by analysts
than smaller issuers, all else equal. See Barth, M., R. Kasznik, and M. McNichols, 2001, Analyst
coverage and intangible assets, Journal of Accounting Research 39(1), pp. 1–34.

270

competition among Regulation A issuers for investor capital. If the number of issuers
seeking to raise larger amounts of capital pursuant to Regulation A increases more than
the size of the accredited and non-accredited investor base, investors considering
Regulation A securities will have more choice of investment opportunities in the
Regulation A market, resulting in greater competition among issuers for prospective
investors. Increased competition, in turn, could result in more efficient allocation of
capital by investors. The intensity of competition among issuers for investor capital may
not change, however, if issuers are able to attract additional numbers of accredited and
non-accredited investors as the Regulation A market develops.
Alternatively, as suggested by some commenters, we could have increased the
Tier 2 maximum offering size above $50 million, for example, to $75 or $100 million.938
This alternative could result in benefits that are similar to the benefits of the increase in
the maximum offering size contained in the final rules but of a potentially larger
magnitude. However, there is reason to believe that the magnitude of the increase in such
benefits may be limited. In particular, although Rule 506 does not limit maximum
offering size, few Regulation D offerings by issuers that would be eligible for amended
Regulation A exceeded $50 million.939 To the extent that the current use of other types
938

See B. Riley Letter; Fallbrook Technologies Letter; OTC Markets Letter; Public Startup Co. Letter
1; Richardson Patel Letter.

939

Based on an analysis of Form D filings for 2014 by staff from Commission’s Division of
Economic and Risk Analysis, less than 3% of Regulation D offerings by issuers that would be
eligible for amended Regulation A had offering size greater than $50 million.
We also considered the overall distribution of registered offerings (initial public offerings and
seasoned equity offerings). The overall number of Regulation D offerings significantly exceeded
the number of registered equity offerings, thus the combined distribution of registered and
Regulation D offerings closely resembles the distribution of Regulation D offerings. In 2014, most
(92.2%) of the offerings conducted in the form of registered equity offerings or Regulation D
offerings had offer sizes up to $50 million. In 2014, offerings in the $50-$75 million range
accounted for 1.0% of Regulation D offerings and approximately 10% of registered equity

271

of exempt offerings is indicative of future Regulation A offerings, the alternative of
raising the Tier 2 offering size above $50 million may not lead to a significant increase in
the number of issuers.
However, we recognize that historical use of Regulation D may not fully
represent future potential use of Regulation A, particularly to the extent that the amended
rules facilitate offerings by issuers that do not currently rely on other private offering
exemptions and that are seeking a broader investor base and enhanced liquidity for their
issued securities. In particular, amended Regulation A may attract issuers seeking a
public ownership status, and for whom a likely alternative is a registered offering. An
increase in the Tier 2 offering size above $50 million could result in some issuers shifting
from conducting a registered offering to conducting a Tier 2 offering. As discussed
earlier, amended Regulation A may facilitate offerings that would not otherwise be
conducted given the cost of registered offerings. However, it is also possible that an
increase in the Tier 2 offering size above $50 million will not result in a significant
number of issuers shifting from conducting a registered offering to conducting a Tier 2
offering given that the relative cost savings from a Tier 2 offering compared to a
registered offering may be lower for offerings in the $50 million to $75 million range
than for those below $50 million.940

offerings. Data on registered offerings was obtained from Thomson Reuters, as described in
Section III.B.1.b.
940

The fixed costs of registered offerings represent a significantly higher portion of offering proceeds
as offering sizes decrease. For instance, compliance related costs (registration, legal and
accounting expenses and fees) increase from an average of an average of 1.7% for IPOs and 0.5%
for SEOs in the $50-$75 million range to an average of 2.9% for IPOs and 1.6% for SEOs in the
below $50 million range. Fee information is compiled from Thomson Reuters SDC data for 1992–
2014, excluding offerings from non-Canadian foreign issuers, blank-check companies, and
investment companies. Average compliance fees and expenses for this calculation are based on
observations with non-missing data (where all four types of fees - legal, accounting, blue sky, and

272

An increased maximum offering size for Tier 1 offerings could increase the
overall amount of securities being offered to the general public that are subject to less
extensive initial disclosure requirements and not subject to ongoing disclosure
requirements, which may reduce the ability of investors to make informed investment
decisions. However, some issuers that conduct offerings that are eligible for Tier 1 may
instead choose a Tier 2 offering, for example, to take advantage of the benefits of more
extensive disclosure, such as potentially greater secondary market liquidity, and the
benefits of a single level of regulatory review.
An increased maximum offering size for Tier 2 Regulation A offerings could
increase the overall amount of securities being offered to the general public that are
subject to initial and ongoing disclosure requirements that are less extensive than the
requirements for registered offerings being offered to the general public, which may
result in less informed decisions by investors, thus potentially impacting investor
protection. This may be partly mitigated by the investment limitations imposed on
non-accredited investors in Tier 2 offerings. Further, larger issuers are more likely to
conduct registered offerings, associated with the more extensive disclosure requirements
of the Exchange Act. 941 We believe that the annual offering limitation for Tier 2 will

registration fees, to which we collectively refer as compliance fees - are separately reported).
Offerings with gross proceeds below $1,000 are excluded to minimize measurement error.
941

Early in the firm's life cycle, it may be optimal for a firm to remain private, but as it grows larger,
it may become optimal to conduct a registered IPO. See Chemmanur, Thomas J., and Paolo
Fulghieri, 1999, A theory of the going-public decision, Review of Financial Studies 12(2), pp.
249–279. Privately held firms tend to be significantly smaller than firms with publicly traded
securities. See Asker, John, Joan Farre-Mensa, and Alexander Ljungqvist, 2014, Corporate
investment and stock market listing: A puzzle? Review of Financial Studies 28(2), pp. 342–390.
Asker, John, Joan Farre-Mensa, and Alexander Ljungqvist, 2011, What do private firms look like?
Data appendix, available at: http://ssrn.com/abstract_id=1659926. Other studies support the
notion that larger firms are more likely to conduct a registered IPO. See Pagano, Marco, Fabio
Panetta, and Luigi Zingales, 1998, Why do computers go public? An empirical analysis, Journal of

273

serve to limit the utility of the Regulation A exemption for larger issuers and thus will
make it more likely that they will continue to raise money through registered offerings
and provide the corresponding disclosure.
b.

Secondary Sales

The final rules continue to permit secondary sales as part of a Regulation A
offering, subject to the following conditions. The amount of securities that selling
securityholders can sell at the time of an issuer’s initial offering and within the following
12-month period may not exceed 30% of the aggregate offering price (offering size) of a
particular offering. Following the expiration of the first 12-month period after an issuer’s
initial qualification of an offering statement, the amount of securities that affiliate
securityholders can sell in a Regulation A offering in any 12-month period will be limited
to $6 million in Tier 1 offerings and $15 million in Tier 2 offerings. 942 After the initial
12-month period, sales by non-affiliate securityholders made pursuant to the offering
statement will not be subject to a limit on secondary sales but will be aggregated with
sales by the issuer and affiliates for the purposes of compliance with the maximum
offering limitation for the respective tier. The final rules also eliminate the provision in
the current Rule 251(b), which prohibits resales by affiliates unless the issuer has had net

Finance 53, 27–64 (showing that size predicts going public using Italian data). See also
Chemmanur, Thomas J., Shan He, and Debarshi K. Nandy, 2010, The going-public decision and
the product market, Review of Financial Studies 23(5), pp. 1855–1908 (showing that size predicts
a higher likelihood of conducting a registered IPO using US data). In turn, smaller firms that have
undertaken an IPO in the past are more likely to go private later on. See Mehran, Hamid, and
Stavros Peristiani, 2010, Financial visibility and the decision to go private, Review of Financial
Studies, 23(2), pp. 519–547.
942

The dollar limits are broadly consistent with existing Regulation A, which limits sales by existing
securityholders to $1.5 million, or 30% of the $5 million maximum offering size, in a 12-month
period.

274

income from continuing operations in at least one of the last two years. 943
Several commenters recommended eliminating limits on sales by existing
securityholders, 944 including one commenter that recommended eliminating restrictions
on sales by non-affiliate securityholders since concerns over information asymmetries
between potential investors and non-affiliate securityholders would be reduced. 945 Other
commenters recommended either proscribing resales entirely 946 or requiring the approval
of the resale offering by a majority of the issuer’s independent directors upon a finding
that the offering is in the best interests of both the selling securityholders and the
issuer. 947 Another commenter recommended requiring a twelve-month holding period
for selling shareholders in order to distinguish between investors seeking to invest in a
business and investors simply seeking to sell to the public for a gain or limiting
securityholders not qualifying for the twelve-month holding period to selling a fraction of
their shares, such as 50%. 948
Whether and to what extent securityholders should be permitted to sell in a
Regulation A offering involves a trade-off between enhancing liquidity for selling
securityholders and limiting the potential harm to investors that could arise from such
sales. The final rules attempt to balance these considerations. The trade-off between
943

Tier 1 offerings may still be subject to state law limitations on secondary sales and sales by
affiliates.

944

See ABA BLS Letter; B. Riley Letter; Canaccord Letter; CFIRA Letter 1; CFIRA Letter 2; Milken
Institute Letter; MoFo Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co Letter.

945

See Milken Institute Letter.

946

See Massachusetts Letter 2; NASAA Letter 2; Carey Letter.

947

See NASAA Letter 2 (supporting the proposed limits coupled with a board approval requirement
in lieu of prohibiting resales entirely) and WDFI Letter (not expressing a preference for
prohibiting resales entirely).

948

See MCS Letter.

275

these countervailing considerations will depend in large part on whether the selling
securityholder is an affiliate of the issuer. There are two concerns about sales by
affiliates. One is that there is an information asymmetry between an affiliate and outside
investors. In particular, an affiliate selling securityholder is likely to have an
informational advantage that it may potentially utilize to the detriment of outside
investors. 949 The other concern is the alignment of incentives. With respect to affiliates,
it is often argued that the incentives of company management are better aligned with
other shareholders when managers hold a significant equity interest in the company. 950
Thus, it can be important that insiders retain an ownership stake in the company to ensure
that their incentives are aligned. 951 A divestiture of the ownership stake of an affiliate
owner may therefore exacerbate agency conflicts, thus suggesting that large affiliate sales
can be detrimental to current and future investors.
We recognize, however, that there are benefits to be realized from permitting
affiliate securityholders, such as company founders and employees, to sell in a
Regulation A offering. Because entrepreneurs and other affiliates consider available exit
options before participating in a new venture, permitting secondary sales increases their
incentives to make the original investment, which may promote innovation and business
949

See Easley, D., and M. O'Hara, 2004, Information and the cost of capital, Journal of
Finance 59(4), pp. 1553–1583. We note that these potential effects may be limited to the extent
that purchasers are aware that they may be transacting with better informed affiliates in the course
of offerings with affiliate securityholder sale disclosures, in which case these informational
asymmetries could be partially or fully reflected in lower security prices and lower proceeds at the
time of the offering.

950

See Jensen, M., and W. Meckling, 1976, Theory of the firm: Managerial behavior, agency costs
and ownership structure, Journal of Financial Economics 3(4), pp. 305–360.

951

See Core, J., R. Holthausen, and D. Larcker, 1999, Corporate governance, chief executive officer
compensation, and firm performance, Journal of Financial Economics 51(3), pp. 371–406;
Mehran, H., 1995, Executive compensation structure, ownership, and firm performance, Journal of
Financial Economics 38(2), pp. 163–184.

276

formation. 952 Allowing exit could also facilitate efficient reallocation of capital and
talents of entrepreneurs to new ventures. 953 Additionally, exit of a large affiliate
shareholder could potentially result in a broader base of investors.
As noted above, the final rules relax the existing limitations on secondary sales by
affiliates by eliminating the net income test for affiliate resales in existing Rule 251(b).
We are concerned that this criterion may not be the best measure of financial health and
investment opportunities for some issuers eligible for amended Regulation A and thus
may inappropriately disadvantage those issuers, and their affiliates, with respect to
secondary sales. 954 In particular, this change should benefit growth and R&D-intensive
issuers that may experience longer periods of negative revenues. Several commenters
supported the elimination of the net income test for affiliate resales, generally noting that
some issuers may have net losses for several years, including due to high R&D costs. 955
We recognize that eliminating this criterion could lead to reduced investor protection due
to insiders in Regulation A offerings being able to sell securities in issuers that have not
reported net income. However, we note that the disclosures required for Regulation A
offerings, as well as the overall limits on secondary sales during the initial 12-month

952

See Cumming, D., and J. MacIntosh, 2003, Venture-capital exits in Canada and the United
States, University of Toronto Law Journal 53(2), pp. 101–199.

953

See Zhang, J., 2011, The advantage of experienced start-up founders in venture capital acquisition:
Evidence from serial entrepreneurs, Small Business Economics 36(2), pp. 187–208. See also
Gompers, P., A. Kovner, J. Lerner, and D. Scharfstein, 2006, Skill vs. luck in entrepreneurship
and venture capital: Evidence from serial entrepreneurs, Working paper No. w12592, National
Bureau of Economic Research.

954

See Davila, A., and G. Foster, 2005, Management accounting systems adoption decisions:
Evidence and performance implications from early-stage/startup companies, Accounting
Review 80(4), pp. 1039–1068 (suggesting that standard accounting measures are often poor
indicators of financial health in small companies).

955

See ABA BLS Letter; B. Riley Letter; Canaccord Letter; CFIRA Letter 1; Milken Institute Letter;
MoFo Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co Letter.

277

period and subsequent limits on secondary sales by affiliates, should partly mitigate this
cost.
The trade-off between enhanced liquidity and investor protection is different with
respect to sales by non-affiliates, because these securityholders are less likely to have
access to inside information, and their sales do not raise the incentive alignment concerns
discussed above in the context of affiliate securityholders. The option to exit through a
Regulation A offering provides additional liquidity to existing non-affiliate
securityholders. During the initial 12-month period, the final rules enable selling
securityholders to access liquidity through a Regulation A offering while ensuring that
secondary sales at the time of such offerings are made in conjunction with new capital
raising by the issuer. After the expiration of the initial 12-month period, the ability of
non-affiliate securityholders to sell securities pursuant to a qualified Regulation A
offering statement without limitation (except the maximum Regulation A offering size)
should make Regulation A securities more attractive to prospective investors, which may
encourage initial investment and increase capital formation. Non-affiliate securityholders
who hold restricted securities purchased in reliance on another exemption will be able to
sell them freely after a one-year holding period. Purchasers of the securities from such
non-affiliate securityholders would not have the benefit of the more robust disclosure
provisions of a Regulation A offering, where the seller will be subject to Section 12(a)(2)
liability. Thus, allowing secondary sales in a Regulation A offering will provide an
additional measure of protection for purchasers as compared to transactions in the

278

secondary market. 956 Consequently, we believe that removing restrictions on non-affiliate
securityholder sales in Regulation A offerings will not have an adverse effect on investor
protection.
Although secondary sales increase the liquidity for existing securityholders, since
secondary sales will be aggregated with issuer sales for purposes of compliance with the
maximum offering amount permissible under the respective tiers, secondary sales may
reduce the maximum amount of issuer sales in a Regulation A offering. The 30% limit on
secondary sales imposed during the initial 12-month period partly mitigates this potential
effect.
4.

Investment Limitation

Regulation A currently does not place limits on the amount of securities that may
be purchased by an investor. The proposed rules included a 10% investment limit for all
investors in Tier 2 offerings. Several commenters recommended providing exceptions to
the limit, or altering the limit, for certain types of investors, such as accredited
investors, 957 and for securities that will be listed on an exchange upon qualification. 958
We recognize that there are potential investor protection benefits as well as costs
from imposing investment limits in Regulation A offerings. To help balance those
benefits and costs, the final rules seek to focus these limits on those investors who may
be less likely to be able to fend for themselves and sustain losses. Accordingly, non956

See Securities Act Section 3(b)(2)(D) (expressly providing for Section 12(a)(2) liability for any
person offering or selling Section 3(b)(2) securities).

957

See ABA BLS Letter; Andreessen/Cowen Letter; Canaccord Letter; Cornell Clinic Letter;
Fallbrook Technologies Letter; Heritage Letter; Ladd Letter 2; Leading Biosciences Letter;
McCarter & English Letter; MCS Letter; Milken Institute Letter; MoFo Letter; Paul Hastings
Letter; Richardson Patel Letter; SVB Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co Letter.

958

See Milken Institute Letter.

279

accredited investors in Tier 2 offerings will be limited to purchases of no more than 10%
of the greater of annual income or net worth (for natural persons) or the greater of annual
revenue or net assets (for non-natural persons), as proposed. 959 In a change from the
proposal, the final rules do not apply the investment limit to investors in Tier 2 offerings
that are accredited investors as defined in Rule 501 of Regulation D. We believe that
accredited investors, due to their level of income or net worth, are more likely to be able
to withstand losses from an undiversified exposure to an individual offering.
We also recognize that there are costs associated with investment limits. In
particular, the investment limitation could limit potential gains for non-accredited
investors in Tier 2 offerings. The investment limitation could require some issuers to
solicit a greater number of investors or to solicit additional accredited investors, which
could impose additional costs on those issuers or limit capital formation if they are unable
to attract additional investors. 960 Despite these costs, we believe that this limitation, as
tailored in the final rules, is an appropriate means of protecting investors while promoting
efficiency, competition and capital formation.
The investment limitation could also lead to a more dispersed non-accredited
investor base or a higher proportion of accredited investors in the investor base to the
extent that the 10% threshold impacts investor participation. This could facilitate
increased liquidity as there would be more investors with which to trade. More diffuse
ownership could also exacerbate the shareholder collective action problem and weaken

959

Annual income and net worth would be calculated for individual purchasers as provided in the
accredited investor definition in Rule 501 of Regulation D. See 17 CFR 230.501.

960

An issuer would, however, be able to conduct a Tier 1 offering, which does not impose investment
limitations.

280

external monitoring by non-affiliated shareholders to the extent that coordination costs
with other shareholders increase. We do not believe, however, that either of these
outcomes is a likely consequence of the 10% investment limit.
In a change from the proposal, the final rules exclude sales of securities that will
be listed on a national securities exchange upon qualification from Tier 2 investment
limitations. This provision may provide additional investment opportunities for some
investors and may enhance capital formation for some issuers. We do not anticipate that
this provision will reduce investor protection since such issuers will be required to meet
the listing standards of a national securities exchange and become subject to ongoing
Exchange Act reporting, resulting in a high level of investor protection.
As an alternative to the final rules, we considered imposing more restrictive
investment limitations, as suggested by various comments, including extending
investment limitations to Tier 1 offerings, 961 imposing a limit lower than 10% on “all but
the wealthiest, least risk averse” investors, 962 or imposing a 10% investment limitation
across investments in all Regulation A offerings rather than applying the limitation on a
per offering basis. 963 Applying the investment limitation in Tier 1 offerings could
marginally enhance investor protection, especially since these offerings will be subject to
less extensive disclosure and transactional requirements. However, given that Tier 1
offerings will remain subject to state registration requirements, it is unclear whether

961

See CFA Institute Letter.

962

See CFA Letter.

963

See CFA Letter (not recommending this specifically, but noting this as one reason why the
investment limit was not an adequate substitute for state review of Tier 2 offerings) and Cornell
Clinic Letter.

281

investment limits would significantly enhance investor protection in these offerings. 964
Moreover, adding the investment limitation in Tier 1 offerings could have an adverse
effect on capital formation for the smallest Regulation A issuers, which may face greater
hurdles than larger issuers in attracting a broad investor base.
The alternative of imposing a cap that is lower than 10% on “all but the
wealthiest, least risk averse” investors may confer additional investor protection benefits
on investors that are unable to withstand significant investment losses. However, this
alternative could also limit some investors from pursuing attractive investment
opportunities and limit capital formation for some issuers. Further, since risk preferences
vary considerably among investors, objectively identifying “risk averse” investors in a
way that is broadly applicable is a challenge. In contrast, the 10% investment limitation
in the final rules that applies to all investors in a Tier 2 offering, except accredited
investors, defined pursuant to Rule 501 of Regulation D, provides a standard that market
participants can easily implement.
The alternative of imposing the 10% investment limitation that is aggregated
across investments in all Regulation A offerings rather than applying the limitation on a
per offering basis may strengthen investor protection. Because the risk profiles of
different securities offerings by the same issuer are likely to be correlated, and some
issuers may participate in multiple Regulation A offerings over time, such an alternative
definition of the limitation may prevent a non-accredited investor from using a significant
share (potentially, significantly in excess of 10%) of their net worth or income to

964

One commenter noted that the investment limitation is unnecessary with appropriate state
oversight. See NASAA Letter 2.

282

establish a highly undiversified exposure to a single issuer. However, this alternative
could also limit some investors from pursuing attractive investment opportunities and
limit capital formation for issuers. Moreover, different offerings by the same issuer
under Regulation A may have different risk profiles, depending on security type and
class, thus for some investors, depending on their preferences, investing a larger
aggregate amount in multiple offerings by the same issuer may be optimal.
Overall, while such additional restrictions may strengthen investor protection,
their incremental contribution to investor protection may be small in light of other
provisions of amended Regulation A. At the same time, such additional restrictions may
prevent some investors from taking advantage of potentially beneficial investment
opportunities and may limit the attractiveness of Regulation A to prospective issuers,
reducing capital formation and competition benefits.
The final rules permit issuers to rely on an investor’s representation that the
investment represents no more than 10% of the greater of the investor’s net worth and
annual income, unless the issuer has knowledge that such representation is untrue. The
ability to rely on investor representations should help mitigate potential costs that issuers
could incur to comply with the investment limitation provisions. At the same time, we
realize that investors might make inaccurate representations, whether intentionally or not,
which could expose these investors to increased losses.
As an alternative to investor representations, we could have imposed additional
requirements on the issuer to verify that investors in Tier 2 offerings are compliant with

283

the 10% investment limit, as suggested by some commenters. 965 Such additional
provisions could strengthen investor protections. At the same time, they would likely
result in a disproportionate increase in the cost of compliance, especially for smaller
issuers in Tier 2 offerings, and might deter some investors from participating in such
offerings due to the potential burdens of the verification process and privacy concerns.
5.

Integration

The final rules provide issuers with a safe harbor from integration that, with the
exception of the addition of security-based crowdfunding transactions conducted
pursuant to Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act, preserves the provisions of existing
Regulation A.
We believe that the final rules provide issuers with valuable certainty as to the
contours of offerings conducted before, or close in time with, Regulation A offerings.
This certainty may be particularly beneficial for smaller issuers whose capital needs, and
thus preferred capital raising methods, may change frequently.
As an alternative, we could have eliminated the integration safe harbor. We
believe that the elimination of the safe harbor, however, would inject uncertainty into
offerings conducted before, or close in time with, Regulation A offerings and would, in
turn, decrease the utility of the exemption. Uncertainty as to the contours of offerings, as
they relate to Regulation A, could possibly cause issuers to prefer other offering methods
to Regulation A, which may have an effect on investor protection. For example, if
issuers rely more on Regulation D, this alternative could result in investors receiving less

965

See Accredited Assurance Letter; CFA Letter; CFA Institute Letter; Cornell Clinic Letter; MCS
Letter; WDFI Letter.

284

information about an issuer before making an investment, thereby reducing investor
protection. Instead, if issuers rely more on registered offerings, this alternative could
potentially provide investors with the more extensive disclosure required of, and liability
protections associated with, such offerings, although it would cause smaller issuers to
incur the higher initial and ongoing costs associated with such offerings.
6.

Treatment under Section 12(g)

Existing rules currently do not exempt Regulation A securities from the
requirements of Section 12(g), but the Proposing Release requested comment on whether
we should adopt such an exemption. A number of commenters recommended exempting
Regulation A securities from Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act, 966 and several
commenters recommended changing or delaying the application of Section 12(g). 967 In a
change from the proposed rules, the final rules exempt securities issued in a Tier 2
offering from the provisions of Section 12(g) for so long as the issuer remains subject to,
and is current in, its periodic Regulation A reporting obligations as of its fiscal year
end, 968 engages the services of a transfer agent registered with the Commission pursuant
to Section 17A of the Exchange Act, and had a public float of less than $75 million as of
the last business day of its most recently completed semiannual period, or, in the absence
of a public float, had annual revenues of less than $50 million as of its most recently

966

See B. Riley Letter; CFIRA Letter 1; CFIRA Letter 2; Fallbrook Technologies Letter; Frutkin Law
Letter; Guzik Letter 1 and Letter 3; Heritage Letter; IPA Letter; Ladd Letter 2; Milken Institute
Letter; MoFo Letter; SBIA Letter (recommending that the trigger be “raised or remedied,” but not
explicitly calling for elimination); U.S. Chamber of Commerce Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co
Letter.

967

See Heritage Letter; KVCF; McCarter & English Letter; Milken Institute Letter; MoFo Letter;
Paul Hastings Letter; SBIA Letter.

968

See Rule 12g5-1(a)(7).

285

completed fiscal year. 969
The final rules are intended to provide sufficient disclosure to help investors make
informed decisions while limiting the costs imposed on issuers. We believe that the
initial and ongoing disclosures required for Tier 2 offerings in the final rules accomplish
this objective and that the final rules also provide an appropriate balance between
providing investor protection and promoting capital formation. The size of Tier 2
offerings, combined with the investment limitation and the ability to offer Tier 2
securities to the general public, may result in the number of an issuer’s shareholders of
record exceeding Section 12(g) thresholds. A conditional Section 12(g) exemption for
small issuers of Tier 2 securities in such instances is expected to reduce the compliance
cost for small issuers and facilitate capital formation and the creation of a broad investor
base in offerings made pursuant to Regulation A by small Tier 2 issuers. This will
benefit those small Regulation A issuers that are not seeking to list on a national
securities exchange 970 and that may find the costs of Exchange Act reporting to be too
high given their size.
Regulation A offerings may be particularly attractive to small private companies
whose shareholder bases are approaching the Section 12(g) registration threshold. The
conditional Section 12(g) exemption may enable small private issuers of Tier 2 securities
under amended Regulation A to expand their shareholder base over time, as a result of
secondary market trading, to the extent that such a market develops, or through
subsequent security issuances, without incurring the costs associated with reporting
969

Id.

970

Issuers seeking to list on a national securities exchange will be required to register with the
Commission under Section 12(b).

286

company status. 971
While the additional requirement to use a registered transfer agent will impose
costs on issuers, 972 it should provide investor protection benefits by helping to ensure that
securityholder records and secondary trades will be handled accurately. As it is a
conditional exemption from Section 12(g), however, issuers that are not concerned with
registration under the Exchange Act, perhaps because they do not believe that Exchange
Act registration will be required as a result of a Regulation A offering, would not be
required to retain the services of a registered transfer agent in order to conduct a Tier 2
offering.
The final rules also include an issuer size limit in the eligibility requirements for
the Section 12(g) exemption for Tier 2 offerings, consistent with providing a conditional
exemption tailored to facilitate small company capital formation. The issuer size limit
may make Regulation A less attractive for larger issuers and issuers anticipating growth
971

See IPO Task Force. Based on two surveys, regulatory compliance costs of IPOs average $2.5
million initially, followed by an ongoing cost of $1.5 million per year.

972

We lack the information to provide a precise quantitative estimate of transfer agent costs for Tier 2
issuers. However, we have some sources of information about transfer agent costs in analogous
contexts.
According to the Securities Transfer Association (STA), the registered transfer agent industry is
highly competitive and many of its members can develop business models that will suit the needs
of small issuers and at the same time provide adequate protection to investors. The STA further
noted that it did not anticipate most small issuers to require some of the services, such as the
processing of dividends, that raise the cost of recordkeeping services. See STA letter on JOBS Act
regulatory initiatives, available at: http://www.sec.gov/comments/jobs-title-i/general/general207.pdf. STA estimated that monthly transfer agent fees would be $75‐$300 for security-based
crowdfunding issuers, which translates into annual fees of $900-$3600. See STA letter on
proposed crowdfunding rules, available at: http://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-09-13/s7091396.pdf. In 2014, average transfer agent and registrar fees amounted to approximately $9,000 in
registered IPOs with offering sizes below $50 million, based on Thomson Reuters SDC data,
excluding offerings from non-Canadian foreign issuers, blank-check companies, and investment
companies. Offerings with proceeds below $1,000 are excluded to minimize measurement error.
While estimates for security-based crowdfunding issuers are likely to underestimate the cost for a
typical Tier 2 issuer, estimates for IPOs are likely to overestimate the cost of transfer agent
services for a typical Tier 2 issuer. Costs of transfer agent services for a typical Tier 2 issuer may
be in the range between the two sets of estimates.

287

or capital appreciation that expect to reach Section 12(g) thresholds after conducting a
Tier 2 offering or subsequent secondary market trading. The two-year transition period
before reporting must begin may partly mitigate some of these costs to issuers. Due to
the uncertainty about the future composition of the issuer and investor base in Tier 2
offerings, we cannot determine the proportion of Tier 2 issuers whose number of
shareholders of record will exceed Section 12(g) thresholds or the proportion of those
issuers that will not qualify for an exemption due to their size. 973
Some issuers may be able to limit the number of shareholders of record by
adopting a minimum investment size requirement. This may potentially limit the breadth
of investor base and the availability of investment opportunities to some investors. We
are not able to determine the extent to which the issuer size limit may affect overall
capital formation and whether large or growth issuers will proceed with a Tier 2 offering
or pursue a registered offering, a Regulation D offering or another method of financing.
In addition, the issuer size limit may place at a competitive disadvantage those potential
issuers that exceed the size limit but for which the costs of registration remain high,
relative to potential issuers that are close to the size limit but that qualify for the Section
12(g) conditional exemption.
We recognize that there are costs associated with the conditional exemption
adopted today. Under this exemption, some issuers in Tier 2 offerings with a large

973

Based on the analysis by the staff of Division of Economic and Risk Analysis of 2013 data on
registrants under Section 12(g), excluding issuers with a class of securities registered under
Section 12(b), approximately three-quarters of Section 12(g) registrants would have been below
the issuer size limit (defined similarly to smaller reporting company (SRC) criteria). These figures
may not be representative of the proportion of issuers that would be below the issuer size limit
among future Regulation A issuers that would potentially exceed Section 12(g) thresholds for the
number of shareholders of record.

288

number of shareholders could avoid—potentially indefinitely—the comprehensive
disclosure requirements of the Exchange Act, which may decrease the informational
efficiency of prices and potentially result in less informed investment decisions by a
larger number of investors than in the absence of a conditional Section 12(g) exemption.
The issuer size limit partly mitigates this concern. For the same reasons, however, the
inclusion of a conditional exemption from Section 12(g) may entice small issuers that
would have otherwise generally preferred to raise capital in private offerings to enter the
public markets through a Tier 2 offering pursuant to Regulation A. 974 In this regard, the
conditional exemption could increase the availability of information about companies that
would otherwise remain relatively obscure in the private markets. On balance, we
believe that provisions such as the initial and periodic disclosure requirements and the
investment limit in Tier 2 offerings appropriately balance investor protections and issuer
compliance costs while facilitating the creation of a broad investor base in Tier 2
offerings for small issuers.
We have considered the alternative of providing a conditional exemption from
Section 12(g) registration that does not incorporate an issuer size limitation. Such an
alternative would enable a broader class of potential Tier 2 issuers to remain exempt from
Exchange Act registration. Larger Regulation A issuers could generate a more vibrant
OTC trading market, providing enhanced liquidity to those issuers that may not otherwise
be of sufficient size to make listing on a national market exchange cost-effective.
Providing an exemption from Section 12(g) could provide incentive for these larger
974

For example, issuers may be more willing to raise capital publicly and become subject to some
ongoing reporting requirements if such requirements are less costly to the issuer than the costs
generally associated with the ongoing reporting requirements of the Exchange Act.

289

issuers to broaden their investor base while still providing the ongoing disclosure of the
Tier 2 reporting regime. This could result in potentially beneficial effects on capital
formation, competition, and informational efficiency of prices. However, such an
alternative would potentially create a class of securities permanently exempt from
Exchange Act registration regardless of issuer size and thus subject to less extensive
disclosure requirements than public reporting companies, which may affect investor
protection.
D.

Offering Statement
1.

Electronic Filing and Delivery

The final rules preserve the current three-part structure of Form 1-A but make
various revisions and updates to the form to streamline the information included in the
form. Since most of this information is already contained in other offering materials, the
additional reporting burden in Part I of the Form 1-A should not entail significantly
higher costs in terms of time or out-of-pocket expenses. 975
Under existing Regulation A, offering materials are submitted to the Commission
in paper form. The final rules require electronic submission of offering materials.
Electronic submission is expected to offer benefits to issuers and investors. Paper
documents are difficult to process both for the Commission and for investors. Electronic
filing is therefore expected to reduce processing delays and costs associated with the
current paper filing system, improve the overall efficiency of the filing process for
975

For the purposes of the Paperwork Reduction Act (“PRA”), we estimate that compliance with the
requirements of amended Form 1-A will result in a burden of approximately 750 hours per
response (compared to the current burden associated with Form 1-A of 608 hours per response).
We estimate that compliance with the requirements of amended Form 1-A will result in an
aggregate annual burden of 140,625 hours of in-house personnel time and an aggregate annual
cost of $18,750,000 for the services of outside professionals. See Section IV below.

290

issuers, benefit investors by providing them with faster access to the offering statement,
and allow offering materials to be more easily accessed and analyzed by regulators and
analysts.
We anticipate that electronic access to offering materials may promote the
informational efficiency of prices of Regulation A securities. 976 Evidence, obtained from
the adoption of EDGAR for 10-K filings by reporting companies, suggests that the use of
EDGAR has favorably affected small investors. 977 Moreover, the adoption of XML
format for Part I of Form 1-A, which captures key information about the issuer and the
offering, should allow more efficient access to information and more systematic tracking
of offering details by investors, analysts, other market participants and regulators. The
XML format for Part I will provide a convenient and efficient means of gathering
information from issuers and transmitting it to EDGAR. 978
At the same time, we recognize that an electronic filing requirement may impose
compliance costs on issuers, particularly, issuers that have not previously used the
EDGAR system, which include filing Form ID (the application form for access codes to

976

In the case of reporting companies, one study found that EDGAR e-filing was associated with an
increase in the speed with which information was incorporated into share prices (thus, increased
informational efficiency of prices) and presented evidence of a larger market reaction to 10-K and
10-Q filings in the EDGAR period relative to the pre-EDGAR period. See Griffin, P., 2003, Got
information? Investor response to Form 10-K and Form 10-Q EDGAR filings, Review of
Accounting Studies 8(4), pp. 433–460.

977

One study has examined the effect of the switch to EDGAR filing for annual reports on Form 10K on small versus large investors. See Asthana, S., S. Balsam, and S. Sankaraguruswam, 2004,
Differential response of small versus large investors to 10-K filings on EDGAR, Accounting
Review 79(3), pp. 571–589.

978

See Part I (Notification) of Form 1-A. As discussed more fully in Section II.C.3.a., the cover page
and Part I of current Form 1-A would be converted into, and form the basis of, the XML-based
fillable form.

291

permit EDGAR filing) 979and converting filings into EDGAR format. Some of these
compliance burdens will be mitigated by the savings of printing and mailing costs.
Some commenters have expressed investor protection concerns in relation to the
access equals delivery model (discussed in Section II.C.1) arising from the perceived
challenge of finding these materials on EDGAR and not requiring delivery 48 hours in
advance of sale in all circumstances. 980 As discussed above, we do not believe that
access to EDGAR generally has proven to be a challenge for investors in registered
offerings since the adoption of Securities Offering Reform in 2005, nor do we believe
that it will be a challenge for investors under Regulation A or raise investor protection
concerns, particularly in light of our final delivery requirements (including, where
applicable, the inclusion of hyperlinks to offering materials on EDGAR that must be
provided to investors by issuers and intermediaries). Additionally, given that the final
offering circular delivery obligations generally affect investors only after they have made
their investment decisions and that, taking into account advancements in technology and
expanded use of the Internet, investors will have access to the final offering circular upon
its filing, we believe that using a means other than physical delivery to satisfy the final
offering circular delivery obligation will not have an adverse effect on investor
protection. Overall, we believe that there will be benefits to issuers of streamlining
delivery requirements for the final offering circular, consistent with similar updates to

979

For purposes of the PRA, Form ID is estimated to result in 0.15 burden hours per form, for an
additional aggregate annual burden due to the rule amendments of 28.20 hours of in-house
personnel time. See Section IV.

980

See Massachusetts Letter 2; NASAA Letter 2; WDFI Letter.

292

delivery requirements for registered offerings. 981
2.

Disclosure Format and Content

Under the existing Regulation A, issuers can choose among three models for
providing narrative disclosure in Part II of the offering statement: Model A, Model B, and
Part I of Form S-1. Similar to the proposal, the final rules eliminate Model A but
preserve Model B, with certain changes to the contents, and Part I of Form S-1. 982
We believe that eliminating Model A, which uses a question-and-answer format,
may benefit investors by avoiding possible confusion that could result from the lack of
uniformity of information presented in the question-and-answer format. Several
commenters disagreed with the elimination of the Model A format, recommending that
an updated version of the Model A disclosure format be retained. 983 The Model A format
may be easier to understand for non-accredited investors, who may lack the
sophistication to analyze information presented in alternative disclosure formats.
Compared to other formats, the Model A format might also result in lower costs of initial
preparation of the offering statement, including, in some instances, lessen the need to
retain outside securities counsel. 984 While a question-and-answer format may lower the
cost of initial preparation, it often requires more substantive revisions after filing and
before qualification, in order for the disclosure to sufficiently address the form
requirements. We believe that most of the benefits associated with the lower cost of
981

See Securities Offering Reform, Rel. No. 33-8591.

982

See Section II.C.3.b for a more detailed description.

983

See BIO Letter; Karr Tuttle Letter; NASAA Letter 2; Verrill Dana Letter 1; WDFI Letter.

984

See Karr Tuttle Letter and WDFI Letter. The Karr Tuttle Letter also refers to the experience of
issuers in Rule 504 offerings, indicating that NASAA's Form U-7, upon which Model A is based,
has proved convenient for issuers in Rule 504 offerings qualified by states without the use of
securities counsel.

293

initial preparation are negated subsequently during the qualification process.
Consequently, we are not persuaded that there are sufficient benefits to retaining the
Model A format.
The changes to Model B include updated disclosure requirements, including a
new section containing management discussion and analysis of the issuer’s liquidity,
capital resources and business operations. While these updates may impose costs on the
issuer, they are expected to increase investor protection and informational efficiency of
prices by providing important information to investors. The updated disclosure
requirements are, however, generally designed to assist issuers with more guidance as to
the required disclosures that, while they may increase the cost to issuers associated with
the initial preparation of the offering circular, should lower the overall cost of, and time
to, qualification, when the process is considered in its entirety. Overall, we believe that
the availability of two alternative disclosure formats—a revised Model B format and Part
I of Form S-1—provides sufficient flexibility to issuers in choosing their disclosure
format while preserving the benefits of disclosure of relevant information to prospective
investors.
Some commenters suggested eliminating all three disclosure formats and instead
creating a new disclosure format similar to Part I of Form S-1 that would reference
Regulation S-K requirements (with reduced disclosure requirements in some
instances). 985 Another commenter recommended reducing the disclosure requirements
for offerings of $2 million or less, 986 while another suggested increasing disclosure
985

See Canaccord Letter; CFIRA Letter 1; E&Y Letter; Ladd Letter 2; McCarter & English Letter;
WR Hambrecht + Co Letter.

986

See Campbell Letter.

294

requirements as an issuer grows in size and complexity. 987 We recognize that scaling the
disclosure requirements for Form 1-A, as suggested by commenters, could ease
compliance costs for Regulation A issuers. However, additional scaling of disclosure
requirements within tiers may reduce the comparability of disclosures within the same
tier and result in pricing inefficiencies.
3.

Audited Financial Statements

The final rules require issuers conducting Tier 2 offerings to include audited
financial statements in their offering materials. Audited financial statements should
provide investors in Tier 2 offerings with greater confidence in the accuracy and quality
of the financial statements of issuers seeking to raise larger amounts of capital. This, in
turn, could benefit issuers by lowering the cost of capital or increasing the amount of
capital supplied by investors.
We recognize that audited financial statements could also entail significant costs
to issuers, and that the costs of an audit could discourage the use of Tier 2 offerings.
Based on data from registered IPOs below $50 million in 2014 by issuers that would have
been potentially eligible for amended Regulation A, average total accounting fees
amounted to 1.65% of gross offering proceeds, where reported separately. 988
The final rules require issuers in Tier 2 offerings to include audited financial
987

See SVB Letter.

988

This estimate is based on Thomson Reuters SDC data on IPOs with issue dates in 2014, excluding
offerings from non-Canadian foreign issuers, blank check companies, and investment companies.
Offerings with proceeds below $1,000 are excluded to minimize measurement error. Issuers of
interests in claims on natural resources, which also would not be eligible for amended Regulation
A, were not separately eliminated due to data constraints. Accounting fees include the cost of
preparing accounting statements, in addition to the cost of an audit. We also note that costs
incurred by issuers in registered IPOs may not be representative of costs incurred by issuers in
Tier 2 offerings. We lack the information to provide a quantitative estimate of audit costs that
would be incurred by Regulation A issuers in Tier 2 offerings.

295

statements in their offering circulars that are audited in accordance with either the
auditing standards of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA)
(referred to as U.S. Generally Accepted Auditing Standards or GAAS) or the standards of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB), as suggested by some
commenters. 989 We expect this provision in the final rules to provide issuers with
flexibility that may help contain issuer compliance costs, compared to requiring financial
statements that are audited in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. As noted
above, 990 because AICPA rules would require an audit of a Regulation A issuer
conducted in accordance with PCAOB standards to also comply with U.S. GAAS, an
issuer who includes financial statements audited in accordance with PCAOB standards
will likely incur additional incremental costs compared with an issuer who includes
financial statements audited only in accordance with U.S. GAAS. However, we assume
that an issuer would only elect to comply with both sets of auditing standards because it
has concluded that the benefits of doing so (for example, to facilitate Exchange Act
registration) justify these additional incremental costs.
As an alternative, we could have not required the audited financial statements
until after the first year of operation as a “public startup company” or indefinitely for
issuers that are pre-revenue or that have paid-in capital, assets and revenues below a
modest threshold, as suggested by commenters. 991 While this alternative may decrease
issuer compliance costs, it may also lower the accuracy of information provided to
989

See ABA BLS Letter; BDO Letter; Canaccord Letter; Deloitte Letter; E&Y Letter; KPMG Letter;
McGladrey Letter; MoFo Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co Letter.

990

See Section II.C.3.

991

See Public Startup Co. Letter 3 (also suggesting three tiers, where at least the first two would not
require this) and Public Startup Co. Letter 11.

296

investors in Tier 2 offerings, resulting in reduced investor protection. The large offering
limit in Tier 2 offerings may make some of the fixed costs of an audit relatively less
burdensome. In addition, we note that smaller issuers may opt to forgo the cost of an
audit and elect a Tier 1 offering or a Regulation D offering, which does not require
audited financial statements.
On the other hand, other commenters advised the Commission to require audited
financial statements for Tier 1 offerings. 992 While we acknowledge that requiring audited
statements is likely to result in stronger investor protections due to reduced likelihood of
fraudulent financial statements being presented, this alternative would likely place a
relatively greater burden on smaller issuers due to the fixed-cost nature of some of the
audit costs. Also, given the relatively low maximum offering size for Tier 1, this could
result in Tier 1 offerings becoming not cost-effective.
4.

Other Accounting Requirements

The final rules permit Canadian issuers to prepare financial statements in
accordance with either U.S. GAAP or International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). This is expected to
benefit Canadian issuers that currently use IFRS as issued by the IASB by helping such
issuers contain compliance costs associated with Regulation A offerings, compared to
requiring Canadian issuers to prepare financial statements in accordance with U.S.
GAAP. Several commenters specifically supported allowing Canadian issuers to prepare
their financial statements in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB. 993

992

See Guzik Letter 1 and Milken Institute Letter.

993

See ABA BLS Letter; Canaccord Letter; NASAA Letter 2; MoFo Letter; PwC Letter.

297

5.

Continuous and Delayed Offerings

The final rules explicitly allow for continuous or delayed offerings. 994 As a
result, it is now clear that eligible issuers have greater flexibility to select the timing of
their offerings. Such flexibility is expected to benefit issuers by allowing them to adjust
their capital raising based on macro-economic factors or company conditions. 995 These
factors should facilitate financing decisions and capital market efficiency. For example,
existing research on Rule 415 offerings in the registered offering market shows that costs
of intermediation in shelf offerings, and consequently the cost of raising equity through
shelf registration, are lower than through traditional registration. 996 The final rules
condition the ability to sell securities in a continuous or delayed Tier 2 offering on being
current with ongoing reporting requirements at the time of sale. This should not impose
incremental costs on eligible issuers as they already file periodic updates and
amendments.
The final rules restrict all “at the market” secondary offerings. Existing
Regulation A prohibited primary “at the market” offerings, but did not necessarily restrict
such offerings by selling securityholders. Some commenters suggested allowing such
offerings, including primary offerings by the issuer. 997 We recognize that not allowing

994

Existing Regulation A allows for continuous or delayed offerings to the extent permitted by Rule
415. Since Rule 415 only discusses “registered offerings,” the reference to it may have caused
confusion as to the scope of its application in Regulation A offerings.

995

See Bayless, M., and S. Chaplinsky, 1996, Is there a window of opportunity for seasoned equity
issuance? Journal of Finance 51(1), pp. 253–278.

996

See Bethel, J., and L. Krigman, 2008, Managing the cost of issuing common equity: The role of
registration choice, Quarterly Journal of Finance and Accounting 47(4), pp. 57–85. We recognize
that the evidence based on registered offerings may not be indicative of the effects on Regulation
A offerings.

997

See OTC Markets Letter and Paul Hastings Letter.

298

secondary “at the market” offerings may limit flexibility for those issuers that are
uncertain about the offering price that will attract sufficient investor demand. However,
the benefit of the new restriction as it applies to secondary sales is that it helps ensure that
issuers do not lose their Regulation A exemption due to unanticipated market factors by
inadvertently offering securities in an amount that exceeds the offering limitation. Future
offerings made in reliance on the final rules may provide more information to determine
whether a robust market capable of supporting “at the market” offerings develops and
whether the Regulation A exemption could be an appropriate method for such offerings
in the future.
6.

Nonpublic Review of Draft Offering Statements

Under the final rules, issuers whose securities have not been previously sold
pursuant to a qualified offering statement under Regulation A or an effective registration
statement under the Securities Act will be permitted to submit to the Commission a draft
offering statement for non-public review, so long as all such documents are publicly filed
not later than 21 calendar days before qualification. The option of non-public submission
of a draft offering statement is expected to reduce the barriers to entry for issuers using
Regulation A. In this regard, a potential issuer could reduce the amount of time between
disclosing possibly sensitive information to its competitors in its offering statement and
the related sale of its securities. Furthermore, companies that are tentative about
conducting an offering could start the qualification process and then abandon the offering
any time before the initial public filing without receiving the related stigma in the market.
To the extent that this accommodation lowers the barriers to entry, it may encourage
capital formation and competition. Moreover, we do not believe that the option of draft

299

offering statement submission will significantly affect investor protection. Disclosure
requirements are unchanged for issuers that elect the option of non-public submission of
draft offering statement. The initial non-public statement, all non-public statement
amendments, and all correspondence with Commission staff regarding such submissions
must be publicly filed and available on EDGAR as exhibits to the offering statement not
less than 21 calendar days before qualification of the offering statement.
E.

Solicitation of Interest (“Testing the Waters”)

Under existing Regulation A, testing the waters is permitted only until the
offering statement is filed with the Commission, and solicitation material is required to be
filed prior to or concurrent with first use. The final rules permit issuers to test the waters
and use solicitation materials both before and after the offering statement is filed, subject
to issuer compliance with the rules on filing information and disclaimers. 998 Under the
final rules, testing the waters materials will be required to be included as an exhibit to the
offering statement at the time of initial submission or filing with the Commission, and
updated thereafter.
In general, allowing issuers to gauge interest through expanded testing the waters
will reduce uncertainty about whether an offering could be completed successfully.
Allowing solicitation prior to filing enables issuers to determine market interest in their
securities before incurring the costs of preparing and filing an offering statement. If after
testing the waters, the issuer is not confident that it will attract sufficient investor interest,
the issuer can consider alternate methods of raising capital and thereby avoid the costs of

998

As noted in Section II.H.3. above, some state securities laws may impose limitations on the use of
testing the waters by Tier 1 issuers.

300

an unsubscribed or under-subscribed offering. Allowing testing the waters at any time
prior to qualification of the offering statement, rather than only prior to filing of the
offering statement with the Commission, may increase the likelihood that the issuer will
raise the desired amount of capital. This option may be useful for smaller issuers,
especially early-stage issuers, first-time issuers, issuers in lines of business characterized
by a considerable degree of uncertainty, and other issuers with a high degree of
information asymmetry. This provision may attract certain issuers—those that may be
uncertain about the prospects of raising investor capital—to consider using amended
Regulation A when they might not otherwise, thus potentially promoting competition for
investor capital as well as capital formation in the Regulation A market.
Expanding the permissible use of testing the waters communications could also
increase the type and extent of information available to investors, which could lead to
more efficient prices for the offered securities. The final rules permit testing the waters
for an expanded period of time compared to the baseline. As a result, it may be easier for
investors to become aware of a larger and more diverse set of investment opportunities in
private offerings, which may allow these investors to more efficiently allocate their
capital. The net effect could be to enhance both capital formation and allocative
efficiency. Further, requiring issuers using testing the waters solicitations after the
offering statement is publicly filed to provide the offering statement with the testing the
waters materials (or provide information about where it can be accessed), and to update it
and redistribute updates in the event of material changes, will allow investors to make
informed investment decisions.
We recognize that there may also be potential costs associated with expanding the

301

use of testing the waters communications. If the contents of the offering circular differ
substantively from the material distributed through testing the waters communications,
and if investors rely on testing the waters materials, this may lead investors to make less
informed investment decisions. Some commenters were concerned that the expanded use
of permissible testing the waters may facilitate misleading statements to investors and
may lead to a heightened risk of fraud. 999 We believe, however, that this potential
investor protection concern is mitigated by the application of Section 12(a)(2) liability to
Regulation A offerings and the general anti-fraud provisions of the federal securities
laws.
We considered the alternative, suggested by some commenters, 1000 of requiring
submission and review of testing the waters materials before or concurrent with first use,
rather than at the time the offering statement is submitted for non-public review or filed,
which could aid regulators in detecting fraudulent solicitation of interest
communications, potentially resulting in investor protection benefits. However, requiring
initial submission and review of testing the waters materials prior to their use could
dissuade issuers, particularly smaller or less experienced issuers, from engaging in testing
the waters communications, thereby undermining many of the benefits of permitting such
communications discussed above.
We also considered the views of other commenters who suggested we relax some
of the proposed requirements for the use of testing the waters. For example, we could
have treated the solicitation materials as non-public when filed with the Commission, at

999

See Massachusetts Letter 2; NASAA Letter 2; WDFI Letter.

1000

See Massachusetts Letter 2; NASAA Letter 2; WDFI Letter.

302

least until the offering statement is qualified, 1001 or removed the requirement for public
filing of solicitation materials for all Regulation A offerings or for Tier 2 offerings. 1002
Issuers that have elected to use testing the waters communications have already incurred
the cost of preparing the materials, so the incremental direct cost of the requirement to
file the materials with the Commission will be low. We recognize that permitting issuers
to file the solicitation materials non-publicly with the Commission could reduce the
indirect costs of some issuers by limiting the ability of the issuer’s competitors to
discover information about the issuer.
However, we note that this information may become available to competitors in
any event through the solicitation process and removing the requirement to publicly file
the materials may result in adverse effects on the protection of investors to the extent that
it may facilitate fraudulent statements by issuers to all or a selected group of investors
that may fail to compare the statements in the solicitation materials against the offering
circular. On balance, we believe that the final rule’s requirements governing the use of
testing the waters communications appropriately balance the goals of providing flexibility
to issuers and protection to investors.
F.

Ongoing Reporting

Currently, Regulation A issuers do not have ongoing reporting obligations. The
final rules prescribe an ongoing reporting regime for issuers that conduct Tier 2 offerings
that requires, in addition to annual reports on Form 1-K, semiannual reports on Form 1SA, current event reporting on Form 1-U, and notice to the Commission of the

1001

See Heritage Letter and Ladd Letter 2.

1002

See BIO Letter and MoFo Letter.

303

suspension of ongoing reporting obligations on Form 1-Z.
These reporting requirements will have benefits and costs. These reporting
requirements should strengthen investor protection and decrease the extent of information
asymmetries between issuers and investors in the Regulation A market, relative to
existing Regulation A. Requiring ongoing disclosures for Tier 2 offerings will provide
investors with periodically updated information, allowing them to identify investment
opportunities best suited for their level of risk tolerance and re-evaluate the issuer’s
prospects through time, resulting in better informed investment decisions and improved
allocative efficiency of capital. By standardizing the content, timing, and format of these
disclosures, the amendments to Regulation A will make it easier for investors to compare
information across issuers, both within and outside of the new Regulation A market.
The additional reporting requirements for Tier 2 offerings increase the availability
of public information that can be used for valuing securities. A reduction in information
risk due to improvements in disclosure can lower the issuer’s cost of capital. 1003 Because
there are no resale restrictions, some securities issued in amended Regulation A offerings
are likely to be quoted on the OTC market, and required ongoing disclosure requirements
will provide investors with updated information about their underlying value, and as a
result, lower the inherent asymmetric information risks associated with trading in this
market. 1004 The enhanced information environment should facilitate more
informationally efficient pricing and better liquidity for amended Regulation A
1003

See Diamond, D., and R. Verrecchia, 1991, Disclosure, liquidity, and the cost of capital, Journal of
Finance 46(4), pp. 1325-1359; Easley, D., and M. O'Hara, 2004, Information and the cost of
capital, Journal of Finance 59(4), 1553–1583; Easley, D., S. Hvidkjaer, and M. O’Hara, 2002, Is
information risk a determinant of asset returns? Journal of Finance 57(5), pp. 2185–2221.

1004

See Ang, A., A. Shtauber, and P. Tetlock, 2013, Asset pricing in the dark: The cross section of
OTC stocks, Review of Financial Studies 26(12), pp. 2985–3028.

304

securities. 1005 Tier 2 ongoing disclosure requirements should also provide timely and
relevant issuer information at a lower cost to broker-dealers that initiate quotations and
make markets in these securities. Increased secondary market liquidity can make
securities more attractive to prospective investors, which can promote capital formation.
Hence, there may be significant benefits for capital formation from the ongoing reporting
requirements in the final rules.
Although reporting obligations for Tier 2 issuers are less extensive than for
reporting companies, we recognize that they will still result in a significant direct cost of
compliance. One commenter estimated the qualification and reporting costs of a Tier 2
issuer to be approximately $400,000 in the first year and $200,000 annually thereafter
(per issuer). 1006 For the purposes of the PRA, we estimate that compliance with the
requirements of Forms 1-K, 1-SA, and 1-U for issuers with an ongoing reporting
obligation under Regulation A will result in an aggregate annual burden of 115,351 hours
of in-house personnel time and an aggregate annual cost of $13,450,272 for the services
of outside professionals. 1007
In addition to the direct costs of preparing the mandatory disclosures, issuers of
securities in Tier 2 offerings will be subject to indirect disclosure costs of revealing to
their competitors and other market participants information about their business not

1005

See Graham, J., C. Harvey, and S. Rajgopal, 2005, The economic implications of corporate
financial reporting, Journal of Accounting and Economics 40(1–3), pp. 3–73; Durnev, A., R.
Morck, and B. Yeung, 2003, Value enhancing capital budgeting and firm-specific stock return
variation, Journal of Finance 59(1), pp. 65–106.

1006

See IPA Letter.

1007

See Section IV below.

305

previously required to be disclosed. 1008 These disclosures can inform the issuer’s
competitors about the issuer’s strategic decisions regarding investment, financing,
management and other aspects of business. For issuers seeking to reduce such costs of
disclosure, Rule 506(c) of Regulation D could be more appealing. Based on the scope of
disclosures required, an issuer’s combination of direct and indirect costs of disclosure is
likely to be lowest for a Regulation D Rule 506 offering, followed by a Tier 1 offering, a
Tier 2 offering and, finally, a registered public offering.
We evaluate below the different provisions of the ongoing reporting requirements
and the alternatives we have considered.
1.

Periodic and Current Event Reporting Requirements

Currently, Regulation A issuers do not have ongoing reporting obligations. Tier 2
issuers in a Regulation A offering will have periodic and current event reporting
obligations under the final rules. As noted above, these ongoing reporting requirements
will result in both direct and indirect costs to Tier 2 issuers.
Commenters made various suggestions for expanding the ongoing disclosure
requirements for Tier 2 issuers. For example, several commenters suggested we require
quarterly reporting instead of semi-annual reporting. 1009 Another commenter suggested
we require officers, directors and controlling shareholders of issuers that offer securities
under Regulation A to make ongoing disclosure of transactions in company securities,
similar to reporting on Forms 3, 4 and 5 and Schedules 13D, 13G and 13F in the

1008

See Verrecchia, R., 2001, Essays on disclosure, Journal of Accounting and Economics 32, pp. 97–
180.

1009

See Massachusetts Letter 2; NASAA Letter 2; OTC Markets Letter; WDFI Letter.

306

registered securities context.1010 While additional requirements that would bring the Tier
2 disclosure obligations closer to the reporting company disclosure obligations are likely
to have informational efficiency and investor protection benefits, they are also likely to
make Regulation A more costly and less attractive to prospective issuers and may not
promote capital formation as much as the final rules.
Other commenters recommended reducing the continuing disclosure burden on
Tier 2 issuers 1011 or making continuing disclosure requirements contingent upon factors
other than offering tier, such as whether the issuer has taken steps to foster a market in its
securities. 1012 These alternatives would likely reduce compliance costs for Tier 2 issuers;
however, they also may cause investors to have less information upon which to make
investment decisions, resulting in weaker investor protections and less informationally
efficient prices.
Other commenters recommended requiring ongoing disclosures for issuers in Tier
1 offerings, including disclosures at a level lower than is required for Tier 2, 1013 ongoing
disclosure with yearly audited financials, 1014 or some unspecified continuous disclosure
obligation. 1015 Such alternatives, particularly if accompanied by the requirement of
audited financial statements, would increase the availability and quality of financial
information provided to investors in Tier 1 offerings and strengthen investor protection

1010

See OTC Markets Letter.

1011

See Heritage Letter and IPA Letter.

1012

See Heritage Letter.

1013

See Guzik Letter 1 (suggesting that Tier 1 ongoing disclosure requirements could parallel Tier 2’s
requirements, but without the requirement for semiannual reports).

1014

See Ladd Letter 2.

1015

See SVB Letter.

307

by enabling investors to make better informed decisions. However, due to the fixed
component of disclosure costs, and the likely smaller size of Tier 1 offerings relative to
Tier 2 offerings, such requirements may limit capital formation and place Tier 1 issuers at
a competitive disadvantage relative to Tier 2 issuers. We note that small issuers that value
informational efficiency gains from ongoing disclosures above the cost of such
disclosures have the option of conducting a Tier 2 offering.
2.

Termination and Suspension of Reporting and Exit Reports

The final rules permit issuers in Tier 2 offerings that have filed all periodic and
current reports required by Regulation A for a specified period to suspend their ongoing
reporting obligation under Regulation A at any time after completing reporting for the
fiscal year in which the offering statement was qualified, if the securities of each class to
which the offering statement relates are held of record by fewer than 300 persons and
offers or sales made in reliance on a qualified Tier 2 offering statement are not ongoing.
For banks or bank holding companies, the termination threshold is fewer than 1,200
persons, consistent with Title VI of the JOBS Act. The option to cease reporting could be
beneficial, especially for issuers that do not seek secondary market liquidity and for
smaller issuers that find the costs of compliance with the ongoing disclosure requirements
to be a relatively greater burden. At the same time, the option might be costly for
investors because it will decrease the amount of information available about the issuer,
making it more difficult to monitor the issuer and accurately price its securities or to find
a trading venue that will allow liquidation of the investment. The public availability of
information in bank regulatory filings is expected to mitigate some of these effects for
bank issuers undertaking Regulation A offerings. Termination of reporting also might

308

make it easier for inside shareholders to use an informational advantage to the detriment
of minority outside investors.
The final rules require Tier 1 issuers to notify the Commission upon completion
of their offerings by filing Form 1-Z (exit report). Issuers in Tier 2 offerings will be
required to provide this information on Form 1-Z at the time of filing the exit report, if
they have not previously provided this information on Form 1-K as part of their annual
report. Form 1-Z contains limited summary information about the issuer and the
completed offering and, therefore, should not impose substantial additional compliance
costs on the issuer. 1016 The enhanced availability of Form 1-Z information is likely to
benefit investors and facilitate evaluation of Regulation A market activity. For example,
this information should allow the Commission and others to assess whether issuers have
been able to raise the projected amount of capital in Regulation A offerings. We
recognize, however, that, since information about the completed offering has value to an
issuer’s competitors, its disclosure may also impose an indirect cost on issuers.
3.

Exchange Act Registration

Generally, an issuer of Regulation A securities would not be subject to Exchange
Act reporting obligations unless it separately registers a class of securities under Section
12 of the Exchange Act or conducts a registered public offering. This results in
significantly lower costs of periodic reporting for Regulation A issuers relative to
reporting companies. 1017

1016

For the purposes of the PRA, we estimate that filing the Form 1-Z exit report will result in an
aggregate annual burden of 235.5 hours of in-house personnel time. See Section IV below.

1017

Ongoing compliance costs were estimated to be $1.5 million per year, following an IPO,
according to two surveys cited in the IPO Task Force report.

309

The final rules permit issuers seeking to register a class of Regulation A securities
under the Exchange Act to do so by filing a Form 8-A in conjunction with the
qualification of a Form 1-A that follows Part I of Form S-1 or the Form S-11 disclosure
model in the offering circular. In some circumstances this option may provide more
flexibility, for instance, with respect to testing the waters, to issuers seeking to register a
class of securities. The obligation to file ongoing reports in a Tier 2 offering is
automatically suspended upon registration of a class of securities under Section 12 of the
Exchange Act or registration of an offering of securities under the Securities Act. Given
that Exchange Act reporting obligations are more extensive than those of Regulation A,
the entry of such issuers into the Exchange Act reporting system upon qualification of a
Regulation A offering statement is expected to have a beneficial effect on investor
protection and informational efficiency of prices. While registration pursuant to the
Exchange Act is likely to impose additional costs on issuers, only issuers that opt into
such registration are affected. As a result, we anticipate that only those issuers for whom
the perceived benefits of registration justify the accompanying costs will elect to use this
provision.
G.

Insignificant Deviations

Under the final rules, offerings with “certain insignificant deviations from a term,
condition or requirement” of Regulation A remain exempt from registration. This is the
same as the rules in existing Regulation A. As a result, the only change from the baseline
is that these rules will likely apply to a greater number of offerings due to the expanded
availability of amended Regulation A. Further, as in existing Regulation A, the final
rules explicitly classify as significant those deviations that are related to issuer eligibility,

310

aggregate offering price, offers and continuous or delayed offerings. This provision
benefits investors by providing certainty about the provisions from which the issuer may
not deviate without losing the exemption. At the same time, it enables issuers to continue
to rely on the exemption and obtain its capital formation benefits even if they have an
“insignificant deviation” from the final rules. This provision may be especially beneficial
for issuers with limited experience with Regulation A offerings as their limited
experience may make them more susceptible to an inadvertent error. In this way, the
provision may encourage more issuers to engage in Regulation A transactions and
thereby facilitate capital formation.
H.

Bad Actor Disqualification

The final rules amend Rule 262 to include bad actor disqualification provisions in
substantially the same form as adopted under Rule 506(d). 1018 The final rules specify that
the covered person’s status is tested at the time of filing of the offering statement.
Consistent with the disqualification provisions of Rule 506(d), the final rules add two
new disqualification triggers to those in existing Regulation A: Commission cease-anddesist orders relating to violations of scienter-based anti-fraud provisions of the federal
securities laws or Section 5 of the Securities Act and the final orders and bars of certain
state and other federal regulators. While these provisions may impose an incremental
cost on issuers and other covered persons relative to the cost imposed by the
disqualification provisions of existing Regulation A, they should strengthen investor
protection from potential fraud.
If one of these new triggering events occurred prior to the effective date of the
1018

See 17 CFR 230.506(d).

311

final rules, the event will not cause disqualification, but instead must be disclosed on a
basis consistent with Rule 506(e). This approach will not preclude the participation of
bad actors whose disqualifying events occurred prior to the effective date of the final
rules, which could expose investors to the risks that arise when bad actors are associated
with an offering. These risks to investors may be partly mitigated since investors will
have access to relevant information that could inform their investment decisions.
Disclosure of triggering events may also make it more difficult for issuers to attract
investors, and issuers may experience some or all of the impact of disqualification as a
result. Some issuers may, accordingly, choose to exclude involvement by prior bad
actors to avoid such disclosures.
We expect that the bad actor disqualification provisions in the final rules will lead
most issuers to restrict bad actor participation in Regulation A offerings, which could
help reduce the potential for fraud in these types of offerings and thus strengthen investor
protection compared with an alternative of not including bad actor disqualification
provisions. If disqualification standards lower the risk premium associated with the risk
of fraud due to the presence of bad actors in securities offerings, they could also reduce
the cost of capital for issuers that rely on amended Regulation A. In addition, the
requirement that issuers determine whether any covered persons are subject to
disqualification might reduce the need for investors to do their own investigations and
could therefore increase efficiency.
The disqualification provisions also impose costs on issuers and covered persons.
Issuers that are disqualified from using amended Regulation A may experience an
increased cost of capital or a reduced availability of capital, which could have negative

312

effects on capital formation. In addition, issuers may incur costs related to seeking
disqualification waivers from the Commission and replacing personnel or avoiding the
participation of covered persons who are subject to disqualifying events. Issuers also
might incur costs to restructure their share ownership to avoid beneficial ownership of
20% or more of the issuer's outstanding voting equity securities, calculated on the basis
of voting power, by individuals subject to disqualifying events.
As discussed above, the final rules also provide a reasonable care exception on a
basis consistent with Rule 506(d). 1019 We anticipate that the reasonable care exception
would result in benefits and costs, compared with an alternative of not providing a
reasonable care exception. For example, a reasonable care exception could facilitate
capital formation by encouraging issuers to proceed with Regulation A offerings in
situations in which issuers otherwise might have been deterred from relying on
Regulation A if they risked potential liability under Section 5 of the Securities Act for
unknown disqualifying events. This exception also could increase the potential for fraud,
compared with an alternative of not providing a reasonable care exception, by limiting
issuers’ incentives to determine whether bad actors are involved with their offerings. We
also recognize that some issuers might incur costs associated with conducting and
documenting their factual inquiry into possible disqualifications. The rule’s flexibility
with respect to the nature and extent of the factual inquiry required could allow an issuer
to tailor its factual inquiry as appropriate to its particular circumstances, thereby
potentially limiting costs.
One commenter recommended revising the look-back periods for disqualifying
1019

See Proposed Rule 262(b)(4).

313

events to run from the time of sale rather than the time of filing of the offering
statement. 1020 These changes would relax the bad actor disqualification standard, by
allowing bad actors to participate in Regulation A offerings during the qualification
process. We believe that timing application of the bad actor disqualification rules to the
time of filing of the offering statement, as opposed to the time of qualification, is
therefore more appropriate under the final rules.
I.

Relationship with State Securities Law

The final rules preempt state registration and qualification requirements for Tier 2
offerings but preserve these requirements for Tier 1 offerings, consistent with state
registration of Regulation A offerings of up to $5 million under existing Regulation A.
The GAO Report found that compliance with state securities review and
qualification requirements was one of the factors that appeared to have influenced the
infrequent use of Regulation A by small businesses. 1021 Various commenters supporting
preemption of state securities laws in the final rules noted that state review of offering
statements is a significant impediment to the use of Regulation A and that the process of

1020

See KVCF Letter.

1021

See GAO Report. The GAO Report also cites other factors that may have discouraged issuer use
of the Regulation A exemption, including a comparatively low $5 million offering limitation, a
slow and costly filing process associated with Commission qualification, and the availability of
other exemptions under the federal securities laws.
A recent study performs a comparison of Rule 506 offerings with Rule 505 and Rule 504 offerings
that “suggests that the Blue Sky law preemption feature unique to Rule 506 offerings has greater
value to issuers than the unique features of Rule 504 or Rule 505 offerings.” See Ivanov, V., and
S. Bauguess, 2013, Capital raising in the U.S.: An analysis of unregistered offerings using the
Regulation D exemption, 2009-2012, available at:
http://www.sec.gov/divisions/riskfin/whitepapers/dera-unregistered-offerings-reg-d.pdf.
See also Leading Biosciences Letter referencing recommendations supporting preemption from
the SEC Government-Business Forum on Small Business Capital Formation in 2011 and 2012.
Similar recommendations were made in the final report of the SEC Forum on Small Business
Capital Formation in 2013, available at: http://www.sec.gov/info/smallbus/gbfor32.pdf.

314

qualification in multiple states will remain inefficient despite NASAA’s implementation
of a coordinated review program. 1022 More broadly, commenters as well as the GAO
Report indicated that the existing regime of federal and state qualification has been a
significant disincentive to the use of Regulation A for capital raising. With respect to
time and compliance costs associated with state qualification, we believe preemption will
likely reduce issuers’ costs, although we lack comprehensive, independent data to
estimate the precise amount. Only a few commenters provided specific monetary
estimates of cost components. One commenter indicated that a revenue-generating
business seeking to conduct a debt or equity offering under existing Regulation A can
produce a conforming offering statement for state and federal review for approximately
$50,000. 1023 According to another commenter, an issuer seeking state registration in 50
states would incur $80,000 to $100,000 in legal fees. 1024
As one commenter noted, “[t]he challenges posed by the necessity of responding
to both federal and state reviews and coordinating overlapping but potentially
1022

See ABA BLS Letter; Andreessen/Cowen Letter; Almerico Letter; B. Riley Letter; BIO Letter;
Campbell Letter; Canaccord Letter; CFIRA Letter 1; CFIRA Letter 2; Congressional Letter 3;
DuMoulin Letter; Eng Letter; Fallbrook Technologies Letter; Gilman Law Letter; Guzik Letter 1;
Hart Letter; Heritage Letter; Huynh Letter; IPA Letter; Edwards Wildman Letter; Kisel Letter;
Kretz Letter; KVCF Letter; Ladd Letter 2; Leading Biosciences Letter; McCarter & English
Letter; Methven Letter; Milken Institute Letter; MoFo Letter; Moloney Letter; New Food Letter;
OTC Markets Letter; Paul Hastings Letter; Palomino Letter; Public Startup Co. (several letters);
REISA Letter; Richardson Patel Letter; SBIA Letter; Staples Letter; Sugai Letter; SVB Letter;
SVGS Letter; Unorthodocs Letter; U.S. Chamber of Commerce Letter; Verrill Dana Letter 2;
Warren Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co Letter.

1023

See Groundfloor Letter. This commenter does not separately estimate the component of the cost
due to state registration.

1024

See Letter from Paul Hastings, LLP, November 26, 2013.
Another commenter referenced one issuer’s offering in the State of Washington in the amount of
$750,000, with legal and accounting expenses estimated at $10,000 and the offering statement
prepared without outside securities counsel and reviewed by the state within less than three
months. See WDFI Letter. We do not believe that this cost estimate would be representative of
costs for issuers registering in multiple states rather than a single state or for issuers involving
outside securities counsel.

315

inconsistent comments and approvals have helped to make the existing Regulation A
scheme unworkable for most smaller companies.” 1025 Preemption of state securities
review and qualification requirements for Tier 2 offerings will eliminate the burdens of
responding to multiple reviews and thus provide for a more streamlined review process
than exists under existing Regulation A. We expect that this, in turn, will make Tier 2 a
more attractive capital raising option for issuers than existing Regulation A.
Accordingly, we believe that by eliminating the requirement for state qualification, the
final rules’ preemption for Tier 2 offerings will result in greater use of amended
Regulation A and thereby facilitate capital formation.
We recognize that commenters were divided on the issue of preemption, and
those who objected to preemption of state securities review and qualification
requirements cited benefits of state review. 1026 These include additional investor
protection benefits arising from the localized knowledge and resources of state regulators
that may aid in detecting fraud and facilitating issuer compliance. 1027 Some of these

1025

See ABA BLS Letter.

1026

See ASD Letter; Cornell Clinic Letter; CFA Letter; CFA Institute Letter; Groundfloor Letter
(arguing that the Commission should at least evaluate NASAA’s coordinated review program for
12 months); Karr Tuttle Letter (acknowledging that state preemption may still be necessary for
states not participating in NASAA’s new coordinated review program); MCS Letter;
Congressional Letter 2; Congressional Letter 4; NASAA Letter 1; NASAA Letter 2; NASAA
Letter 3; NDBF Letter; NYIPB Letter; ODS Letter; PRCFI Letter; Scherber Letter; Secretaries of
State Letter; Massachusetts Letter 1; Massachusetts Letter 2; Tavakoli Letter; TSSB Letter; WDFI
Letter. One commenter stated its view that the Commission’s proposal to preempt state regulatory
review contained little consideration of the adverse costs that come with preemption, particularly
the potential harm to investors, including harm investors might incur in the absence of state review
in the area of small and thinly traded company offerings. See NASAA Letter 2.

1027

According to the 2014 NASAA enforcement report for 2013, securities violations related to
unregistered securities sold by unlicensed individuals, including fraudulent offerings marketed
through the Internet, remain an important enforcement concern. The report does not detail the
number and category of violations by type of exemption from registration. See NASAA
Enforcement Report, available at: http://www.nasaa.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/08/2014Enforcement-Report-on-2013-Data_110414.pdf.

316

commenters also noted that the launch of NASAA’s coordinated review program could
streamline state review of offerings among participating states.
We acknowledge that the preemption of state qualification for Tier 2 offerings
may have an impact on investor protection by eliminating one level of government
review. In addition, merit-based review of offerings undertaken by some states may, in
some cases, provide a level of investor protections different from the disclosure-based
review undertaken by the Commission. State regulators may also have a better
knowledge of local issuers, which could help in detecting fraud, especially in offerings by
small, localized issuers. If investors require higher returns because of a perceived
increase in the risk of fraud as a result of preemption, issuers may face a higher cost of
capital. We are unable to predict how the amendments to Regulation A will affect the
incidence of fraud that may arise in Regulation A offerings.
Several factors could mitigate these potential impacts. First, under Section 18(c),
the states retain the ability to require the filing with them of any documents filed with the
Commission and to investigate and bring enforcement actions with respect to fraudulent
transactions. Second, we believe that amended Regulation A provides substantial
protections to purchasers in Tier 2 offerings. Under the final rules, a Regulation A
offering statement will continue to provide substantive narrative and financial disclosures
about the issuer. Further, the final rules require offering statements to be qualified by the
Commission before an issuer can conduct sales. Additional investor protections would
be afforded by Regulation A’s limitations on eligible issuers and bad actor
disqualification provisions. The final rules for Tier 2 offerings provide further protection
by requiring audited financial statements in the offering circular, ongoing reporting, and

317

an investment limitation for purchasers who do not qualify as accredited investors.
The anticipated costs and benefits of state preemption will depend on key offering
characteristics and issuer disclosure requirements. In particular, smaller offerings with a
narrow investor base, such as those expected to be conducted under Tier 1, are more
likely to be concentrated in fewer states and to benefit from geographic-specific
information of state regulators as part of the review process. 1028 In contrast, larger
offerings that seek a broader investor base, such as those expected to be conducted under
Tier 2, are more likely to span multiple states. For Tier 2 offerings, the additional
disclosure, audited financial statements, and transactional requirements relative to Tier 1
offerings are expected to provide an additional layer of investor protection, thus reducing
the need for, and the expected benefits of, state review. State preemption for Tier 2
offerings should lower the compliance burdens imposed on issuers, and partly offset the
costs of the increased disclosure and transactional requirements.
In general, we expect that issuers in Tier 1 offerings will face significantly lower
offering costs as a result of not being subjected to the requirements of audited financial
statements and ongoing reporting in the final rules. For these offerings, the local
knowledge of state regulators is anticipated to add value to the review process to the

1028

We believe that issuers conducting Tier 1 offerings are more likely to be smaller companies whose
businesses revolve around products, services, and a customer base that will more likely be located
within a single state or region or a small number of geographically dispersed states. For example,
based on our analysis, issuers of securities in the seven offering statements qualified by the
Commission pursuant to Regulation A in 2014 indicated, on average, that they were seeking
qualification in approximately five states per offering. The financial statements provided by these
issuers further indicated, on average, that issuers had approximately $1.2 million in assets. No
issuer indicated assets greater than $3.6 million, while two issuers indicated assets of less than
$20,000. We recognize, however, that the characteristics of Tier 1 issuers in Tier 1 offerings
relying on amended Regulation A in the future may differ from the characteristics of issuers that
rely on existing Regulation A (for example, due to the higher maximum offering size for Tier 1
offerings in the final rules, compared with the maximum offering size in existing Regulation A).

318

extent that the issuer and the investor base are more likely to be localized. Thus, state
qualification is more likely to have incremental investor protection benefits in Tier 1
offerings relative to Tier 2 offerings. Moreover, to the extent that Tier 1 offerings are
more likely to be concentrated in fewer states, the cost of complying with state review
procedures is likely to be diminished for these types of offerings.
Some commenters also pointed to the increased burden on Commission resources
as a cost of state preemption. 1029 Compared with the baseline of the existing Regulation
A, we anticipate a possible increase in the burden on Commission resources as a result of
the increase in the Regulation A maximum offering size and other provisions intended to
make Regulation A more attractive to prospective issuers. However, we believe this
increase would also occur under the alternative of no state preemption for Tier 2
offerings. While state review of Tier 2 offerings could potentially confer incremental
investor protection benefits to the extent a thorough Commission staff review is
constrained by the increased burden on agency resources, overall we do not believe this
effect will be substantial.
As an alternative to preemption for Tier 2 offerings, we considered the option of
state qualification by one state or a subset of states or the option of state review under
NASAA’s coordinated review program. 1030 According to one commenter, the
coordinated review program creates value by defining concrete service standards
regarding the timeliness of various steps of the qualification process and by introducing

1029

See WDFI Letter and NASAA Letter 2.

1030

A description of NASAA’s coordinated review program can be found at:
http://www.nasaa.org/industry-resources/corporation-finance/coordinated-review/regulation-aofferings/.

319

more legal certainty. 1031 According to another commenter, the coordinated review
program will eliminate costs of identifying and addressing individual state requirements
and will provide an expedient registration process. 1032 We recognize that the coordinated
review process ultimately may reduce processing time and streamline certain state
requirements for issuers registering in multiple states when compared to independent
review conducted by individual states. To date, however, we are aware of only a few
issuers that have utilized the coordinated review process, so currently there is limited
evidence available to us to evaluate the effectiveness and timeliness of coordinated
review, especially in the event that more potential Regulation A issuers seek state
qualification under this process. While it is possible that the coordinated review process
may reduce costs for issuers as compared to individual state review and qualification, it
would add cost and complexity for issuers seeking an exemption under amended
Regulation A when compared to Commission review and qualification alone. To the
extent that disclosure or merit review (if applicable to one of the participating
jurisdictions in which the issuer is seeking to offer securities) standards of participating
jurisdictions impose more extensive requirements on the issuer than Commission rules,
some issuers may incur additional compliance expense or require additional time to
address comments. In light of the recent efforts of state securities regulators to address
concerns about the cost of state review and qualification of Regulation A offerings,
however, the ongoing implementation and development of the coordinated review
program, particularly as it may operate within Tier 1 offerings, may, in the future,

1031

See Groundfloor Letter.

1032

See WDFI Letter.

320

provide additional data that will aid our future evaluation of whether such a program
could effectively operate within the context of larger, more national Tier 2 offerings.
We believe the final rules strike appropriate balance between mitigating cost and
time demands on issuers and providing investor protections.
IV.

PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT

A.

Background
Certain provisions of the final rules contain “collection of information”

requirements within the meaning of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (PRA). 1033
We published a notice requesting comment on the collection of information requirements
in the Proposing Release, and we submitted these requirements to the Office of
Management and Budget (OMB) for review in accordance with the PRA and its
implementing regulations. 1034 While several commenters provided qualitative comments
on the possible costs of the proposed rules and amendments, we did not receive
comments on our PRA analysis and thus are adopting our estimates substantially as
proposed, except as otherwise noted herein. The titles for the collections of information
are:
(1) “Regulation A (Form 1-A and Form 2-A)” (OMB Control Number 3235-0286);
(2) “Form 1-K” (OMB Control Number 3235-0720);
(3) “Form 1-SA” (OMB Control Number 3235-0721);
(4) “Form 1-U” (OMB Control Number 3235-0722);
(5) “Form 1-Z” (OMB Control Number 3235-0723);

1033

44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.

1034

44 U.S.C. 3507(d) and 5 CFR 1320.11.

321

(6) “Form 8-A” (OMB Control Number 3235-0056);
(7) “Form ID” (OMB Control Number 3235-0328); and
(8) “Form F-X” (OMB Control Number 3235-0379). 1035
An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to,
a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. We
applied for OMB control numbers for the new collections of information in accordance
with 44 U.S.C. 3507(j) and 5 CFR 1320.13, and OMB assigned a control number to each
new collection, as specified above. Responses to these new collections of information
would be mandatory for issuers raising capital under Regulation A.
The hours and costs associated with preparing disclosure, filing forms, and
retaining records constitute reporting and cost burdens imposed by the collections of
information. In deriving estimates of these hours and costs, we recognize that the
burdens likely will vary among individual issuers based on a number of factors, including
the stage of development of the business, the amount of capital an issuer seeks to raise,
and the number of years since inception of the business. We believe that some issuers
will experience costs in excess of the average and some issuers may experience less than
the average costs.
B.

Estimated Number of Regulation A Offerings
Data regarding current market practices may help identify the potential number of

offerings that will be conducted in reliance on the final rules. 1036 We estimate that there

1035

Although the final rules do not amend Form F-X, the total burden hours associated with that form
may increase minimally as a result of the increased number of issuers relying on Regulation A.
The Commission submitted the revised burden estimate for Form F-X to OMB for review in
accordance with the PRA, although the potential minimal increase in burden hours was not noted
in the Proposing Release.

322

are currently approximately 26 Regulation A offering statements filed by issuers per
year. 1037 While it is not possible to predict with certainty the number of offering
statements that will be filed by issuers relating to offerings made in reliance on amended
Regulation A, for purposes of this PRA analysis, we estimate that the number will be 250
offerings statements per year. We base this estimate on (i) the current approximate
number of annual Form 1-A filings under the existing rules, plus (ii) 65 percent of the
estimated number of registered offering of securities that would have been eligible to be
conducted under Regulation A, 1038 plus (iii) an additional 16 offerings that either would
not otherwise occur or would have been conducted in reliance on another exemption from
Securities Act registration, such as Regulation D. 1039 For purposes of this PRA analysis,
we assume that each offering statement for a unique Regulation A offering that is filed
represents a unique issuer, such that approximately 250 issuers are estimated to conduct
Regulation A offerings each year under the final rules.
C.

PRA Reporting and Cost Burden Estimates
1.

Regulation A (Form 1-A and Form 2-A)

Currently, Regulation A requires issuers to file a Form 1-A: Offering Statement
and a Form 2-A: Report of Sales and Uses of Proceeds with the Commission.
Regulation A has one administrative burden hour associated with it, while current

1036

See Section III. above for a discussion of the data regarding current market practices.

1037

From 2009 through 2014, there were 158 Form 1-As filed with the Commission.

1038

See figures and graphs for registered offerings cited in Section III.B.b. above (citing
approximately 320 registered initial public offerings or follow-on offerings in calendar year 2014
that would have been potentially eligible to be conducted under amended Regulation A).

1039

See figures and graphs for registered and exempt offerings under Regulation D cited in
Section III.B.1.a.ii. above (citing 11,228 issuances under Regulation D in calendar year 2014 that
would have been potentially eligible to be conducted under amended Regulation A).

323

Form 1-A is estimated to take approximately 608 hours to prepare and Form 2-A is
estimated to take approximately 12 hours to prepare. 1040 We do not anticipate that the
one administrative burden hour associated with Regulation A will change as a result of
the final rules. As discussed more fully below, we believe the burden hours associated
with Form 1-A will change, while Form 2-A and the associated burden hours are
eliminated as a result of today’s proposal. 1041
Under the final rules, an issuer conducting a transaction in reliance on
Regulation A will be able to conduct either a Tier 1 offering or a Tier 2 offering. 1042 In
either case, a Regulation A issuer will continue to be required to file with the
Commission specified disclosures on a Form 1-A: Offering Statement. 1043 An issuer will
also be required to file amendments to Form 1-A to address comments from Commission
staff and to disclose material changes in the disclosure previously provided to the
Commission or investors. 1044 In light of the electronic filing requirements for
Regulation A offering materials discussed above, 1045 issuers are no longer required to file
a manually signed copy of Form 1-A with the Commission. 1046 Issuers are, however,
required to manually sign a copy of the offering statement before or at the time of
non-public submission or filing that must be retained by the issuer for a period of five

1040

See Form 1-A at 1; Form 2-A at 1.

1041

See discussion in Section II.E. above.

1042

See discussion in Section II.B.3. above.

1043

See Rule 252.

1044

See Rule 252(f).

1045

See discussion in Section II.C.1. above.

1046

See discussion in Section II.C.3.d. above.

324

years and produced to the Commission, upon request. 1047 As issuers are currently
required to manually sign the Form 1-A and file it with the Commission, we do not
anticipate that the Form 1-A retention requirement adopted in the final rules will alter an
issuer’s compliance burden. As adopted, Form 1-A is similar to existing Form 1-A. In
some instances, Form 1-A, contains fewer disclosure items than existing Form 1-A (e.g.,
Part I (Notification) of Form 1-A does not require disclosure of “Affiliate Sales”; Part II
(Offering Circular) of Form 1-A requires a description of the issuer’s business for a
period of three years, rather than five years). Part II of Form 1-A no longer permits
disclosure in reliance on the Model A disclosure format, but directs issuers to follow the
provisions of Model B (renamed “Offering Circular”), Part I of Form S-1, or, where
applicable, Part I of Form S-11. 1048 In other instances, Form 1-A contains more
disclosure items than existing Form 1-A (e.g., Part I of Form 1-A requires additional
disclosure of certain summary information regarding the issuer and the offering; Part II of
Form 1-A requires more detailed management discussion and analysis of the issuer’s
liquidity and capital resources and results of operations). Form 1-A requires disclosure
similar to that required in a Form S-1 registration statement for registered offerings under
the Securities Act, but with fewer disclosure items (e.g., it requires less disclosure about
the compensation of officers and directors, and less detailed management discussion and
analysis of the issuer’s liquidity and capital resources and results of operations) and,

1047

See Instruction 2 to Signatures in Form 1-A.

1048

See discussion at Section II.C.3.b. above.

325

under certain circumstances, Form 1-A does not require issuers to file audited financial
statements. 1049
We expect that issuers relying on Regulation A for Tier 1 offerings of up to
$20 million in a 12-month period will largely be at a similar stage of development to
issuers relying on existing Regulation A and will therefore not experience an increased
compliance burden with Form 1-A. Given the increased annual offering amount limit of
$50 million for Tier 2 offerings, however, we expect that issuers conducting such
offerings pursuant to Regulation A may be at a more advanced stage of development than
issuers offering securities under Tier 1. In such cases, the complexity of the required
disclosure and, in turn, the burden of compliance with the requirements of Form 1-A may
be greater for some issuers than for issuers relying on existing Form 1-A. We believe
that the burden hours associated with amended Form 1 A will be greater than the current
estimated 608 burden hours per response but will not be as great as the current estimated
972.32 burden hours per response for Form S-1. We therefore estimate that the total
burden to prepare and file Form 1-A, as adopted today, including any amendments to the
form, will increase on average across all issuers in comparison to existing Form 1-A to
approximately 750 hours. 1050 We estimate that the issuer will internally carry 75 percent
of the burden of preparation and that outside professionals retained by the issuer at an
average cost of $400 per hour will carry 25 percent. 1051
1049

See discussion in Section II.C.3.b(2). above.

1050

By comparison, we estimate the burden per response for preparing Form S-1 to be 972.32 hours.
See Form S-1, at 1.

1051

The costs of retaining outside professionals may vary depending on the nature of the professional
services. For purposes of this PRA analysis, however, we estimate that such costs will be an
average of $400/hour, which is consistent with the rate we typically estimate for outside legal
services used in connection with public company reporting.

326

We estimate that compliance with the requirements of a Form 1-A will require
187,500 burden hours (250 offering statements x 750 hours/offering statement) in
aggregate each year, which corresponds to 140,625 aggregated hours carried by the issuer
internally (250 offering statements x 750 hours/offering statement x 0.75) and aggregated
costs of $18,750,000 (250 offering statements x 750 hours/offering statement x 0.25 x
$400) for the services of outside professionals. As stated above, we estimate that the
proposed amendments to Regulation A will not change the one administrative burden
hour associated with the review of Regulation A and will require 250 burden hours (250
offering statements x one hour/offering statement) in aggregate each year, which
corresponds to 187 aggregated hours carried by the issuer internally (250 offering
statements x 0.75) and aggregated costs of $25,000 (250 offering statements x one
hour/offering statement x 0.25 x $400) for services of outside professionals. When
combined with the estimates for Form 1-A, the administrative burden hour results in an
estimated total compliance burden of 751 hours per offering statement and an estimated
annual compliance burden of 187,750 hours (250 offering statements x 751
hours/offering statement) and aggregated costs of $18,775,000 (250 offering statements x
751 hours/offering statement x 0.25 x $400).
2.

Form 1-K: Annual Report

Under the final rules, any issuer that conducts a Tier 2 offering pursuant to
Regulation A is required to file an annual report with the Commission on Form 1-K:
Annual Report. 1052 A manually signed copy of Form 1-K must be executed by the issuer
and related signatories before or at the time of electronic filing, retained by the issuer for
1052

See Rule 257(b)(1).

327

a period of five years and, if requested, produced to the Commission.1053 We do not
anticipate that the requirement to retain a manually signed copy of Form 1-K will affect
an issuer’s compliance burden. We believe the compliance burden associated with
disclosure provided in Form 1-K will be less than the compliance burden associated with
reporting required under Exchange Act Sections 13 or 15(d). We also believe the burden
is more analogous to the compliance burden attendant to Form 1-A. Unlike the
disclosure required in Form 1-A, however, offering-specific disclosure in Form 1-K is not
required. Additionally, under certain circumstances, an issuer will be required to disclose
information similar to the information previously required of issuers on Form 2-A. 1054
Unlike the disclosure previously required on Form 2-A, however, an issuer is not
required to provide disclosure about the use of proceeds. We estimate that the burden to
prepare and file a Form 1-K will be less than that required to prepare and file a Form 1-A.
We estimate that compliance with Form 1-K will result in a burden of 600 hours per
response. 1055 We further estimate that 75 percent of the burden of preparation will be
carried by the issuer internally and that 25 percent will be carried by outside professionals
retained by the issuer at an average cost of $400 per hour. While we do not know the
exact number of issuers that will conduct Tier 2 offerings in reliance on amended
Regulation A, we estimate 75 percent of all issuers filing a Form 1-A (or 188 issuers, 250

1053

See General Instruction C to Form 1-K and related discussion in Section II.E.1.c. above.

1054

Id.

1055

We estimate that the burden of preparing the information required by Form 1-K will be
approximately 3/4 of the burden for filing Form 1-A due to the lack of offering-specific disclosure
and an issuer’s ability to update previously provided disclosure.

328

issuers x .75) will conduct Tier 2 offerings, enter the Regulation A ongoing reporting
regime and therefore be required to file Form 1-K. 1056
We estimate that compliance with the requirements of Form 1-K for issuers with
an ongoing reporting obligation under Regulation A will require 112,800 burden hours
(188 issuers x 600 hours/issuer) in the aggregate each year, which corresponds to 84,600
hours carried by the issuer internally (188 issuers x 600 hours/issuer x 0.75) and costs of
$11,280,000 (188 issuers x 600 hours/issuer x 0.25 x $400) for the services of outside
professionals.
3.

Form 1-SA: Semiannual Report

Under the final rules, any issuer that conducts a Tier 2 offering in reliance on
Regulation A will be required to file a semiannual report with the Commission on Form
1-SA: Semiannual Report. 1057 A manually signed copy of the Form 1-SA must be
executed by the issuer and related signatories before or at the time of electronic filing,
retained by the issuer for a period of five years and, if requested, produced to the
Commission.1058 We do not anticipate that the requirement to retain a manually signed
copy of the Form 1-SA will affect an issuer’s compliance burden. Issuers must provide
semiannual updates on Form 1-SA, which, like a Form 10-Q, 1059 consists primarily of
financial statements and MD&A. Unlike Form 10-Q, Form 1-SA does not require
disclosure regarding quantitative and qualitative market risk or controls and

1056

This estimate includes any special financial reports required to be filed on Form 1-K.

1057

See Rule 257(b)(3).

1058

See General Instruction C to Form 1-SA and related discussion in Section II.E.1.c(2). above.

1059

17 CFR 249.308a.

329

procedures. 1060 We estimate, however, that on balance the reduction in burden
attributable to eliminating these two items in Form 1-SA will be offset by the increased
burden associated with requiring financial statement disclosure covering six months,
rather than three months. We therefore believe the per response compliance burden of
Form 1-SA will be similar to the compliance burden for issuers filing a Form 10-Q under
the Exchange Act. 1061 Therefore, for purposes of this PRA analysis, we estimate that the
burden to prepare and file a Form 1-SA will equal the burden to prepare and file
Form 10-Q, which we have previously estimated as 187.43 hours per response. 1062
Unlike Form 1-K, Form 1-SA does not require the provision of audited financial
statements. We therefore believe, in comparison to Form 1-K, issuers filing a Form 1-SA
will be able to prepare more of the required disclosures internally. Accordingly, we
estimate that 85 percent of the burden of preparation will be carried by the issuer
internally and that 15 percent will be carried by outside professionals retained by the
issuer at an average cost of $400 per hour.
We estimate that compliance with the requirements of Form 1-SA for issuers with
an ongoing reporting obligation under Regulation A will require 35,237burden hours
(188 issuers x 187 hours/issuer/filing x 1 filing/year) in the aggregate each year, which
corresponds to 29,952 hours carried by the issuer internally (188 issuers x 187
hours/issuer/filing x 1 filing/year x 0.85) and costs of $2,113,872 (188 issuers x 187

1060

See discussion in Section II.E.1.c(2). above.

1061

Issuers will, however, have to file Form 1-SA, a semiannual report, less frequently than
Form 10-Q, a quarterly report.

1062

See Form 10-Q, at 1.

330

hours/issuer/filing x 1 filing/year x 0.15 x $400) for the services of outside
professionals. 1063
4.

Form 1-U: Current Reporting

Under the final rules, any issuer that conducts a Tier 2 offering in reliance on
Regulation A is required to promptly file current reports on Form 1-U with the
Commission.1064 A manually signed copy of the Form 1-U must be executed by the
issuer and related signatories before or at the time of electronic filing, retained by the
issuer for a period of five years and, if requested, produced to Commission. 1065 We do
not anticipate that the requirement to retain a manually signed copy of the Form 1-U will
affect an issuer’s compliance burden. Issuers are required to file such reports in the event
they experience certain corporate events, much the same way as issuers subject to an
ongoing reporting obligation under the Exchange Act file current reports on
Form 8-K. 1066 The requirement to file a Form 1-U, however, will be triggered by
significantly fewer corporate events than those that trigger a reporting requirement on a
Form 8-K, and the form itself will be slightly less burdensome for issuers to fill out. 1067
Thus, the frequency of filing the required disclosure and the burden to prepare and file a
Form 1-U will be considerably less than for Form 8-K. We estimate that the burden to
prepare and file each current report will be 5 hours. While we do not know for certain
how often an issuer would experience a corporate event that would trigger a current
1063

This estimate includes any special financial reports required to be filed on Form 1-SA.

1064

See Rule 257(b)(4).

1065

See General Instruction C to Form 1-U and related discussion in Section II.E.1.c(3). above.

1066

We estimate the burden per response for preparing a Form 8-K to be 5.71 hours. See Form 8-K, at
1.

1067

See discussion at Section II.E.1.c(3). above.

331

report filing on Form 1-U, we estimate that many issuers may not experience a corporate
event that triggers reporting, while others may experience multiple events that trigger
reporting. On average, we estimate that an issuer will be required to file one current
report annually. 1068 Therefore, we estimate that an issuer’s compliance with Form 1-U
will result in an annual aggregate burden of 5 hours (1 current report annually x 5 hours
per current report) per issuer.
As with Form 1-SA, we estimate that 85 percent of the burden of preparation will
be carried by the issuer internally and that 15 percent will be carried by outside
professionals retained by the issuer at an average cost of $400 per hour. We estimate that
compliance with the requirements of Form 1-U will require 940 burden hours (188
issuers x 1 current report annually x 5 hours per current report) in aggregate each year,
which corresponds to 799 hours carried by the issuer internally (188 issuers x 5
hours/issuer/year x 0.85) and costs of $56,400 (188 issuers x 5 hours/issuer/year x 0.15 x
$400) for the services of outside professionals.
5.

Form 1-Z: Exit Report

Under the final rules, all Regulation A issuers are required to file a notice under
cover of Form 1-Z: Exit Report. Issuers conducting Tier 1 offerings will be required to
file Part I of Form 1-Z that discloses information similar to the information previously
required of issuers on Form 2-A. 1069 Issuers conducting Tier 2 offerings will also be
required to disclose the same information as issuers conducting Tier 1 offerings in Part I

1068

We have previously estimated that on average issuers file one current report on Form 8-K
annually. Although we believe that the frequency of filing a Form 1-U will be considerably less
than a Form 8-K, we are estimating that each issuer will be required to file one Form 1-U per year.

1069

See discussion in Section II.E.4.b. above.

332

of Form 1-Z, unless previously reported by the issuer on Form 1-K. Issuers conducting
Tier 2 offerings will also be required to complete Part II of Form 1-Z in order to notify
investors and the Commission that it will no longer file and provide annual reports
pursuant to the requirements of Regulation A. 1070 In Tier 2 offerings, an issuer’s
obligations to file ongoing reports could be terminated at any time after completion of
reporting for the fiscal year in which the offering statement was qualified, if the securities
of each class to which the offering statement relates are held of record by fewer than 300
persons and offers and sales made in reliance on a qualified offering statement are not
ongoing. 1071 A manually signed copy of the Form 1-Z must be executed by the issuer
and related signatories before or at the time of electronic filing, retained by the issuer for
a period of five years and, if requested, produced to Commission.1072 We do not
anticipate that the requirement to retain a manually signed copy of the Form 1-Z will
affect an issuer’s compliance burden. We estimate that all of the issuers conducting
Tier 1 offerings (63 issuers, 250 total estimated issuers x 0.25) and 50 percent of issuers
conducting Tier 2 offerings (94 issuers, 188 issuers with an ongoing reporting obligation
x 0.50) will file a Form 1-Z in the second fiscal year after qualification of the offering
statement (157 total issuers, 63 + 94). Although we believe that the vast majority of
issuers subject to ongoing reporting under Regulation A will qualify for termination in
the second fiscal year after qualification, we believe that only half or 50 percent of such
issuers will actually choose to terminate their reporting obligations. An issuer may have
many reasons for continuing its reporting obligations, such as a desire to facilitate
1070

See Rule 257(d).

1071

See Rule 252(f)(2).

1072

See Instruction to Form 1-Z and related discussion in Section II.E.4.b. above.

333

continued quotations in the over-the-counter (OTC) markets pursuant to revisions to
Exchange Act Rule 15c2-11. 1073
The Form 1-Z is similar to the Form 15 that issuers file to provide notice of
termination of the registration of a class of securities under Exchange Act Section 12(g)
or to provide notice of the suspension of the duty to file reports required by Exchange Act
Sections 13(a) or 15(d). 1074 Therefore, we estimate that compliance with the Form 1-Z
will result in a similar burden as compliance with Form 15 that is, a burden of 1.50 hours
per response. We estimate that 100% of the burden will be carried by the issuer
internally. We estimate that compliance with Form 1-Z will result in a burden of 235.5
hours (157 issuers filing Form 1-Z x 1.50 hours/issuer) in the aggregate.
6.

Form 8-A: Short Form Registration under the Exchange Act

Under the final rules, Regulation A issuers in Tier 2 offerings that elect to list
securities offered pursuant to a qualified offering statement on a national securities
exchange or that seek to register the class of securities offered pursuant to a qualified
offering statement under the Exchange Act may do so by filing a Form 8-A (short form)
registration statement with the Commission.1075 In such circumstances, an issuer will be
required to comply with the form requirements of Form 8-A, which will generally allow
issuers to incorporate by reference in the form information provided in the related
Form 1-A. While we do not know the exact number of issuers conducting Tier 2
offerings that will seek to register a class of securities under the Exchange Act at or near

1073

See discussion in Section II.E.2. above.

1074

We currently estimate the burden per response for preparing a Form 15 to be 1.50 hours. See
Form 15 at 1.

1075

See discussion in Section II.E.3. above.

334

the time of qualification of an offering statement, for purpose of this PRA analysis, we
estimate 2 percent of all issuers filing a Form 1-A (or 5 issuers, 250 issuers x .02) will
elect to register a class of securities under the Exchange Act and file a Form 8-A.
The final rules do not alter the burden hour per response of Form 8-A, but rather
amend the existing Form 8-A to permit issuers in Tier 2 offerings to rely on the form.
Therefore, we estimate that compliance with the Form 8-A will not change as a result of
the final rules, a burden of 3 hours per response. 1076 We estimate that compliance with
Form 8-A by issuers conducting a Tier 2 offering will result in a burden of 15 hours (5
issuers filing Form 8-A x 3 hours/issuer) in aggregate each year. We estimate that 100%
of the burden will be carried by the issuer internally.
7.

Form ID Filings

Under the final rules, an issuer will be required to file specified disclosures with
the Commission on EDGAR. 1077 We anticipate that many issuers relying on
Regulation A for the first time will not have previously filed an electronic submission
with the Commission and so will need to file a Form ID. Form ID is the application form
for access codes to permit filing on EDGAR. The final rules will not change the form
itself, but we anticipate that the number of Form ID filings will increase due to an
increase in issuers relying on Regulation A. For purposes of this PRA analysis, we
estimate that 75 percent of the issuers who seek to offer and sell securities in reliance on
amended Regulation A will not have previously filed an electronic submission with the
Commission and will, therefore, be required to file a Form ID. As noted above, we

1076

17 CFR 249.208a.

1077

See Rules 252 and 257.

335

estimate that approximately 250 issuers per year will seek to offer and sell securities in
reliance on Regulation A, which corresponds to approximately 188 additional Form ID
filings. We estimate that 100% of the burden will be carried by the issuer internally. As
a result, we estimate the additional annual burden will be approximately 28.20 hours (188
filings x 0.15 hours/filing). 1078
8.

Form F-X

Under the final rules, Canadian issuers are required to file a Form F-X, which
furnishes to the Commission a written irrevocable consent and power of attorney at the
time of filing the offering statement required by Rule 252. It is used to appoint an agent
for service of process by Canadian issuers eligible to use Regulation A, issuers
registering securities on Forms F-8 or F-10 under the Securities Act or filing periodic
reports on Form 40-F under the Exchange Act, as well as in certain other circumstances.
The final rules will not change Form F-X itself, but will amend the rules to allow
for the form to be filed electronically for offerings under Regulation A. Canadian
companies are the only type of issuer that will be required to use this form under the final
rules and we estimate that 100% of the burden will be carried by the issuer internally.
We estimate that approximately 2 percent of issuers utilizing amended Regulation A will
be Canadian companies (or 5 responses, 250 issuers x 0.02) resulting in an annual burden
of approximately 10 hours (2 hours per response x 5 responses). 1079

1078

We currently estimate the burden associated with Form ID is 0.15 hours per response. See
Form ID at 1.

1079

In this regard, we note that no Canadian issuers filed a Form 1-A in 2013.

336

D.

Collections of Information are Mandatory
The collections of information required under Rules 251 through 263 will be

mandatory for all issuers seeking to rely on the Regulation A exemption. Responses on
Form 1-A, Form 1-K, Form 1-SA, Form 1-U and Form 1-Z will not be kept confidential,
although an issuer may request confidential treatment for non-publicly submitted
offering materials, or any portion thereof, for which it believes an exemption from the
FOIA exists. 1080 It is anticipated that most material not subject to a confidential
treatment request will be made public when the offering is qualified. A Form 1-A that is
non-publicly submitted by an issuer and later abandoned before being publicly filed with
the Commission and responses on Form ID will, however, remain non-public, absent a
request for such information under the Freedom of Information Act. 1081
V.

FINAL REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY ACT ANALYSIS
This Final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis has been prepared in accordance with

the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 603. It relates to the following:
•

amendments to Rule 157(a), Rules 251 through 263 of Regulation A,
Rule 505 of Regulation D, Form 1-A, Form 8-A, Rule 30-1 of the
Commission’s organizational rules, Rule 4a-1 under the Trust Indenture
Act, Rule 12g5-1 and Rule 15c2-11 under the Exchange Act, and Item 101
of Regulation S-T;

•

new Forms 1-K, 1-SA, 1-U, and 1-Z; and

•

the rescission of Form 2-A.

1080

See Commission Rule 83, 17 CFR 200.83, and Securities Act Rule 406, 17 CFR 230.406.

1081

5 U.S.C. 552. The Commission’s regulations that implement the Freedom of Information Act are
at 17 CFR 200.80 et seq.

337

An Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis (IRFA) was prepared in accordance with the
Regulatory Flexibility Act and included in the Proposing Release.
A.

Need for the Rules
The rule amendments, new forms, and rescission of Form 2-A are designed to

implement the requirements of Section 3(b)(2) of the Securities Act and to make certain
conforming changes based on our amendments to Regulation A. Section 3(b)(2) directs
the Commission to adopt rules adding a class of securities exempt from the registration
requirements of the Securities Act for offerings of up to $50 million of securities within a
12-month period, subject to various additional terms and conditions set forth in
Section 3(b)(2) or as provided for by the Commission as part of the rulemaking process.
Our primary objective is to implement Section 401 of the JOBS Act by expanding
and updating Regulation A in a manner that makes public offerings of up to $50 million
less costly and more flexible while providing a framework for regulatory oversight to
protect investors. In so doing, we have crafted a revision of Regulation A that both
promotes small company capital formation and provides for meaningful investor
protection. We believe that issuers, particularly small businesses, benefit from having a
wide range of capital-raising strategies available to them, and that an expanded and
updated Regulation A could serve as a valuable option that augments the exemptions
from registration more frequently relied upon, thereby facilitating capital formation for
small businesses.
B.

Significant Issues Raised by Public Comments
In the Proposing Release, we requested comment on every aspect of the IRFA,

including the number of small entities that would be affected by the proposed

338

amendments, the existence or nature of the potential impact of the proposals on small
entities discussed in the analysis, and how to quantify the impact of the proposed rules.
We did not receive any comments specifically addressing the IRFA. We did, however,
receive comments from members of the public on matters that could potentially impact
small entities. These comments are discussed at length by topic in the corresponding
subsections of Section II. above.
While the proposed rules contemplated that small entities would be able to elect
to proceed under the requirements of either Tier 1 or Tier 2, as discussed more fully
below, an entity considered a small business under our rules would only be required to
file ongoing reports under Regulation A if it elected to conduct a Tier 2 offering. 1082 The
following discussion therefore focuses on the suggestions of commenters, as they relate
to the proposed and final requirements for Tier 1 offerings, which is the tier most likely
to be relied upon by small entities. 1083
Many commenters recommended making changes to proposed rules that, in their
view, would make Regulation A a more viable capital raising option for smaller
issuers. 1084 Some commenters recommended improving the utility of Regulation A for
smaller issuers by preempting state regulation of Tier 1 offerings. 1085 Others, however,

1082

The distinction between a Tier 1 offering and Tier 2 offering is discussed in Section II. above.

1083

For a more comprehensive discussion of commenter suggestions as to the proposed rules for both
Tier 1 and Tier 2 that could potentially impact small entities, see Section II. above.

1084

Andreessen/Cowen Letter; BDO Letter; Bernard Letter; Campbell Letter; CAQ Letter; Public
Startup Co. Letter 1; Deloitte Letter; E&Y Letter; Guzik Letter 1; Heritage Letter; ICBA Letter;
KPMG Letter; McGladrey Letter; Milken Institute Letter; Ladd Letter 2; SVB Financial Letter;
Verrill Dana Letter 1; WR Hambrecht + Co Letter.

1085

Andreessen/Cowen Letter; Bernard Letter; Campbell Letter; Public Startup Co. Letter 1; Guzik
Letter 1; Heritage Letter; Milken Institute Letter; Ladd Letter 2; SVB Financial Letter.

339

opposed preemption for all Regulation A offerings. 1086 Some commenters recommended
that we adopt a third tier, either expressly or through fleixble applicability of the
proposed tier requirements. 1087 Some commenters suggested that raising the offering
limit of Tier 1 from $5 million to $10 million or more would make Tier 1 more useful, 1088
while others recommended including various forms of ongoing disclosure at a level lower
than what was proposed to be required for Tier 2. 1089 One commenter suggested
reducing the Tier 1 narrative disclosure obligations, particularly for offerings of $2
million or less, so that such requirements would be more appropriately tailored for
smaller issuers. 1090 Several commenters made recommendations with respect to the
financial statement and auditing requirements in Form 1-A, as they relate to the
requirements for Tier 1. 1091
The final rules for Regulation A take into account some of the suggestions by
commenters on ways to make Tier 1 more useful for small entities. For example, the
final rules raise the offering limit of Tier 1 to $20 million. Also, with respect to the
offering circular narrative disclosure requirements, 1092 we have adopted certain additional
scaled disclosure requirements for Tier 1 that are intended to lessen the compliance
obligations for smaller issuers. We are further providing issuers under both tiers with the

1086

See fn. 772 above.

1087

See, e.g., Public Startup Co. Letter 1.

1088

Guzik Letter 1; ICBA Letter.

1089

Guzik Letter 1 (suggesting that Tier 1 ongoing disclosure requirements could parallel Tier 2’s
requirements, but without the requirement for semiannual reports); Ladd Letter 2; Public Startup
Co. Letters 1 and 5; SVB Financial Letter.

1090

Campbell Letter.

1091

BDO Letter; CAQ Letter; Deloitte Letter; E&Y Letter; KPMG Letter; McGladrey Letter.

1092

See Section II.C.3.b(1). above.

340

accommodation provided to emerging growth companies in Securities Act Section 7(a) to
use the extended transition periods applicable to private companies for complying with
new or revised accounting standards under U.S. GAAP. Additionally, we have provided
Tier 1 issuers with additional flexibility with respect to auditor independence standards.
As noted in Section II.H.3. above, however, we do not agree with the position of
some commenters that preemption of state securities laws registration and qualification
requirements is necessary or appropriate for Tier 1 offerings. 1093 We note that some
commenters who suggested that preemption of state securities laws may improve the
attractiveness of Tier 1 offerings did so on the condition that other aspects of the tier
should change accordingly, namely requiring Tier 1 issuers to provide audited financial
statements in the offering statement and possibly on an ongoing basis. For the reasons
discussed in Section II.D.3.b(2)(c). above, we have not adopted such changes in Tier 1.
Additionally, as noted in Section II.I. above, we do not believe that the creation of
a third tier, as suggested by some commenters, would meaningfully alter a smaller
entity’s options for capital formation under Regulation A. While a third tier may provide
issuers with some additional flexibility for capital formation under Regulation A, this
additional flexibility would have potential costs. For example, a third tier may
unnecessarily complicate compliance with Regulation A for smaller entities, and could
potentially confuse investors as to the type of Regulation A offering an issuer was
undertaking and the type of information such investor could expect to receive as a result,
thereby lessening the viability of the exemption as a whole. For this reason, we are not
adopting a third or intermediate tier in Regulation A.
1093

See Section II.H.3. above.

341

In the light of the changes discussed above, we believe that the final rules we are
adopting today provide smaller issuers with an appropriately tailored regulatory regime
that takes into account the needs of small entities to have a viable capital formation
option in Regulation A, while maintaining appropriate investor protections.
C.

Small Entities Subject to the Rules
For purposes of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, under our rules, an issuer (other

than an investment company) is a “small business” or “small organization” if it has total
assets of $5 million or less as of the end of its most recent fiscal year and is engaged or
proposing to engage in an offering of securities which does not exceed $5 million. 1094
While Regulation A is available for offerings of up to $50 million in securities in
a 12-month period, only offerings up to $5 million in securities in a 12-month period will
constitute offerings by small entities under the definition set forth above. It is difficult to
predict the number of small entities that will use Regulation A due to the many variables
included in the amendments. Nevertheless, we believe that the final rules for
Regulation A will increase the overall number of Regulation A offerings of $5 million or
less due to the ability to non-publicly submit draft offering statements for review by the
Commission’s staff, the expanded use of solicitation of interest materials, the ability to
electronically file and transmit offering statements and offering circulars, the potential for
preemption of state regulatory review if the issuer elects to conduct a Tier 2 offering, and
other significant changes summarized in Section II. above.

1094

Securities Act Rule 157 [17 CFR 230.157]. We note that currently this rule refers to “the dollar
limitation prescribed by Section 3(b) of the Securities Act.” The JOBS Act amended Section 3(b)
of the Securities Act. The former Section 3(b) is now Section 3(b)(1), and a new Section 3(b)(2)
was added. To retain the meaning of Rule 157, we are adopting a technical correction to replace
the reference to “Section 3(b)” with a reference to “Section 3(b)(1).”

342

Regulation A is currently limited to offerings with an aggregate offering price and
aggregate sales of $5 million or less. 1095 From 2009 through 2014, 158 issuers filed
offering statements and 36 offering statements were qualified by the Commission, or an
average of approximately six qualified offering statements per year. Of the 36 offering
statements that were qualified, 28 included financial statements indicating that the issuer
had total assets of $5 million or less (as of the most recent balance sheet included in such
issuer’s offering statement at the time of qualification), or an average of approximately
five qualified offering statements per year in which the issuer indicated it had total assets
of $5 million or less. Based on these data, and for the reasons discussed above, we
believe that at least five small businesses will conduct offerings under Regulation A per
year.
D.

Reporting, Recordkeeping, and Other Compliance Requirements
As discussed above in Section II., the final rules include reporting, recordkeeping

and other compliance requirements. In particular, the final rules impose certain reporting
requirements on issuers offering and selling securities in a transaction relying on the
exemption provided by Section 3(b) and Regulation A. The final rules require that
issuers relying on the exemption file with the Commission certain information specified
in Form 1-A about the issuer and the offering, including the issuer’s contact information;
use of proceeds from the offering; price or method for calculating the price of the
securities being offered; business and business plan; property; financial condition and
results of operations; directors, officers, significant employees and certain beneficial
1095

As explained in Section II.B.3. above, aggregate sales under Regulation A include prior sales
generated from Regulation A offerings that occurred in the 12 months preceding the current
offering.

343

owners; material agreements and contracts; and past securities sales. 1096 Such issuers are
also required to provide information on the material factors that make an investment in
the issuer speculative or risky; dilution; the plan of distribution for the offering; executive
and director compensation; conflicts of interest and related party transactions; and
financial statements. Similar to existing Regulation A, for Tier 1 offerings, Form 1-A
does not require the financial statements to be audited unless the issuer has already had
them audited for another purpose.
As discussed above in Section II.E.1.c., issuers conducting Tier 2 offerings are
also required to file annual reports on new Form 1-K, semiannual updates on new
Form 1-SA, current event reporting on new Form 1-U, and to provide notice to the
Commission of the termination of their ongoing reporting obligations on new Form 1-Z.
An issuer subject to the Tier 2 periodic and current event reporting described
above is required to provide information annually on Form 1-K, including the issuer’s
business and business plan; conflicts of interest and related party transactions; executive
and director compensation; financial condition and results of operations; and audited
financial statements. The semiannual update on Form 1-SA consists primarily of
unaudited, interim financial statements for the issuer’s first two fiscal quarters and
information regarding the issuer’s financial condition and results of operations. The
current event reporting on Form 1-U requires issuers to disclose certain major
developments, including changes of control; changes in the principal executive officer
and principal financial officer; fundamental changes in the nature of business; material
transactions or corporate events; unregistered sales of five percent or more of outstanding
1096

See discussion in Section II.C.3.b. above.

344

equity securities; changes in the issuer’s certifying accountant; and non-reliance on
previous financial statements.
Form 1-Z is required for issuers in both Tier 1 and Tier 2 offerings to report
summary information about a completed or terminated Regulation A offering. Issuers
conducting Tier 2 offerings also will be subject to the additional provision in Form 1-Z
that relates to the voluntary termination of an issuer’s continuous reporting obligations
under Tier 2; however, we expect its use by small entities will be limited.
Although we estimated in the Proposing Release that approximately 188 issuers
would enter the proposed Tier 2 ongoing reporting regime every year, we believe that
very few small businesses will do so. A small business under our rules will only be
required to file ongoing reports under Regulation A if it elects to conduct a Tier 2
offering.
E.

Agency Action to Minimize Effect on Small Entities
The Regulatory Flexibility Act directs us to consider significant alternatives that

would accomplish the stated objective of our proposals, while minimizing any significant
adverse impact on small entities. In connection with the final amendments and rules, we
considered the following alternatives: (1) the establishment of differing compliance or
reporting requirements or timetables that take into account the resources available to
small entities; (2) the clarification, consolidation or simplification of compliance and
reporting requirements under the rule for small entities; (3) the use of performance rather
than design standards; and (4) an exemption from coverage of the rules, or any parts of
the rules, for small entities.

345

We considered whether it is necessary or appropriate to establish different
compliance or reporting requirements, timetables, or to clarify, consolidate, or simplify
compliance and reporting requirements under the final rules for small entities. We have
made several changes from the proposal that may reduce compliance burdens on small
entities. For example, in response to public comment, the final rules provide for the
further scaling of disclosure items pertaining to executive compensation and related party
transactions for entities offering securities pursuant to Tier 1, which are likely to be
smaller entities.
With respect to using performance rather than design standards, we used
performance standards to the extent appropriate under the statute. For example, issuers
have the flexibility to customize the presentation of certain disclosures in their offering
statements. 1097
We also considered whether there should be an exemption from coverage of the
rules, or any parts of the rules, for small entities. As discussed above, we are adopting
different compliance reporting requirements for issuers that qualify $20 million or less in
securities annually under Tier 1. Those issuers, which are more likely to be small
entities, are not subject to ongoing reporting requirements and the requirement to provide
audited financial statements, although such entities retain the flexibility to comply with
more rigorous initial and ongoing compliance obligations if they so choose. While
audited financial statements are not a Tier 1 requirement, in comparison to the proposed
rules, the final rules provide certain additional flexibility as to the independence
standards required to be followed by auditors of financial statements for issuers of less
1097

See Section II.C.3.b. above.

346

than $20 million that conduct Tier 1 offerings—to the extent an issuer elects to provide
audited financial statements—by allowing such auditors to comply with the independence
standards of either the AICPA or Article 2 of Regulation S-X. We believe that further
distinctions in compliance requirements for Form 1-A users beyond the different sets of
requirements for Tier 1 and Tier 2 issuers may lead to investor confusion or reduced
investor confidence in Regulation A offerings, especially considering that the disclosure
requirements are already less than what is required by Form S-1 for registered offerings.
Further, we anticipate that the burden for preparing a Form 1-A should be less for
companies at an earlier stage of development and with less extensive operations that are
likely to be small entities. 1098 For these reasons, we believe that small entities should be
covered by the final rules to the extent specified above.
VI.

STATUTORY BASIS AND TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
The amendments and forms contained in this document are being adopted under

the authority set forth in Sections 3(b), 19 and 28 of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, Sections 12, 15, 23(a) and 36 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, and Section 304 of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended.

1098

See discussion in Section IV.A.1. above.

347

List of Subjects
17 CFR Part 200
Administrative practice and procedure, Authority delegations (Government
agencies), Organization and functions (Government agencies).
17 CFR Parts 230, 232, 239, 240, 249, and 260
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Securities.
In accordance with the foregoing, title 17, chapter II of the Code of Federal
Regulations is amended as follows:
PART 200 – ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND
INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
1.

The authority citation for part 200 is revised to read in part as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77c, 77o, 77s, 77z-3, 77sss, 78d, 78d-1, 78d-2, 78o-4, 78w,

78ll(d), 78mm, 80a-37, 80b-11, 7202, and 7211 et seq., unless otherwise noted.
*****
2.

Section 200.30-1 is amended by:
a.

Revise paragraphs (b)(2) and (3); and

b.

Add paragraph (b)(4).

The revisions and addition read as follows:
§ 200.30-1 Delegation of authority to Director of Division of Corporation Finance.
*****
(b) * * *
(2) To determine the date and time of qualification for offering statements and
amendments to offering statements pursuant to Rule 252(e) (§230.252(e) of this chapter);

348

(3) To consent to the withdrawal of an offering statement or to declare an offering
statement abandoned pursuant to Rule 259 (§ 230.259 of this chapter); and
(4) To deny a Form 1-Z filing pursuant to Rule 257 (§ 230.257 of this chapter).
*****
PART 230 – GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES ACT OF
1933
3.

The authority citation for part 230 is revised to read in part as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77b, 77b note, 77c, 77d, 77f, 77g, 77h, 77j, 77r, 77s, 77z–3,

77sss, 78c, 78d, 78j, 78l, 78m, 78n, 78o, 78o–7 note, 78t, 78w, 78ll(d), 78mm, 80a–8,
80a–24, 80a–28, 80a–29, 80a–30, and 80a–37, and Pub. L. No. 112-106, sec. 201(a), sec.
401, 126 Stat. 313 (2012), unless otherwise noted.
*****
4.

In § 230.157, paragraph (a) is revised to read as follows:

§ 230.157 Small entities under the Securities Act for purposes of the Regulatory
Flexibility Act.
*****
(a) When used with reference to an issuer, other than an investment company, for
purposes of the Securities Act of 1933, mean an issuer whose total assets on the last day
of its most recent fiscal year were $5 million or less and that is engaged or proposing to
engage in small business financing. An issuer is considered to be engaged or proposing
to engage in small business financing under this section if it is conducting or proposes to
conduct an offering of securities which does not exceed the dollar limitation prescribed
by section 3(b)(1) of the Securities Act.

349

*****
5.

Sections 230.251 through 230.263 are revised to read as follows:

Sec.
230.251 Scope of exemption.
230.252 Offering statement.
230.253 Offering circular.
230.254 Preliminary offering circular.
230.255 Solicitations of interest and other communications.
230.256 Definition of “qualified purchaser”.
230.257 Periodic and current reporting; exit report.
230.258 Suspension of the exemption.
230.259 Withdrawal or abandonment of offering statements.
230.260 Insignificant deviations from a term, condition or requirement of
Regulation A.
230.261 Definitions.
230.262 Disqualification provisions.
230.263 Consent to service of process.

§ 230.251 Scope of exemption.
(a) Tier 1 and Tier 2. A public offer or sale of eligible securities, as defined in
Rule 261 (§ 230.261), pursuant to Regulation A shall be exempt under section 3(b) from
the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”)
(15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.).
(1) Tier 1. Offerings pursuant to Regulation A in which the sum of all cash and

350

other consideration to be received for the securities being offered (“aggregate offering
price”) plus the gross proceeds for all securities sold pursuant to other offering statements
within the 12 months before the start of and during the current offering of securities
(“aggregate sales”) does not exceed $20,000,000, including not more than $6,000,000
offered by all selling securityholders that are affiliates of the issuer (“Tier 1 offerings”).
(2) Tier 2. Offerings pursuant to Regulation A in which the sum of the aggregate
offering price and aggregate sales does not exceed $50,000,000, including not more than
$15,000,000 offered by all selling securityholders that are affiliates of the issuer (“Tier 2
offerings”).
(3) Additional limitation on secondary sales in first year. The portion of the
aggregate offering price attributable to the securities of selling securityholders shall not
exceed 30% of the aggregate offering price of a particular offering in:
(i) The issuer’s first offering pursuant to Regulation A; or
(ii) Any subsequent Regulation A offering that is qualified within one year of
the qualification date of the issuer’s first offering.
NOTE TO PARAGRAPH (a). Where a mixture of cash and non-cash consideration is to be
received, the aggregate offering price must be based on the price at which the
securities are offered for cash. Any portion of the aggregate offering price or
aggregate sales attributable to cash received in a foreign currency must be translated
into United States currency at a currency exchange rate in effect on, or at a reasonable
time before, the date of the sale of the securities. If securities are not offered for cash,
the aggregate offering price or aggregate sales must be based on the value of the
consideration as established by bona fide sales of that consideration made within a

351

reasonable time, or, in the absence of sales, on the fair value as determined by an
accepted standard. Valuations of non-cash consideration must be reasonable at the
time made. If convertible securities or warrants are being offered and such securities
are convertible, exercisable, or exchangeable within one year of the offering
statement’s qualification or at the discretion of the issuer, the underlying securities
must also be qualified and the aggregate offering price must include the actual or
maximum estimated conversion, exercise, or exchange price of such securities.
(b) Issuer. The issuer of the securities:
(1) Is an entity organized under the laws of the United States or Canada, or any
State, Province, Territory or possession thereof, or the District of Columbia, with its
principal place of business in the United States or Canada;
(2) Is not subject to section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(the “Exchange Act”) (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.) immediately before the offering;
(3) Is not a development stage company that either has no specific business plan
or purpose, or has indicated that its business plan is to merge with or acquire an
unidentified company or companies;
(4) Is not an investment company registered or required to be registered under the
Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1 et seq.) or a business development
company as defined in section 2(a)(48) of the Investment Company Act of 1940
(15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(48));
(5) Is not issuing fractional undivided interests in oil or gas rights, or a similar
interest in other mineral rights;
(6) Is not, and has not been, subject to any order of the Commission entered

352

pursuant to Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78l(j)) within five years before
the filing of the offering statement;
(7) Has filed with the Commission all reports required to be filed, if any, pursuant
to Rule 257 (§ 230.257) during the two years before the filing of the offering statement
(or for such shorter period that the issuer was required to file such reports); and
(8) Is not disqualified under Rule 262 (§ 230.262).
(c) Integration with other offerings. Offers or sales made in reliance on this
Regulation A will not be integrated with:
(1) Prior offers or sales of securities; or
(2) Subsequent offers or sales of securities that are:
(i) Registered under the Securities Act, except as provided in Rule 255(e)
(§ 230.255(e));
(ii) Exempt from registration under Rule 701 (§ 230.701);
(iii) Made pursuant to an employee benefit plan;
(iv) Exempt from registration under Regulation S (§§ 230.901 through
203.905);
(v) Made more than six months after the completion of the Regulation A
offering; or
(vi) Exempt from registration under Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15
U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)).
NOTE TO PARAGRAPH (c). If these safe harbors do not apply, whether subsequent
offers and sales of securities will be integrated with the Regulation A offering will
depend on the particular facts and circumstances.

353

(d) Offering conditions—(1) Offers. (i) Except as allowed by Rule 255 (§ 230.255),
no offer of securities may be made unless an offering statement has been filed with the
Commission.
(ii) After the offering statement has been filed, but before it is qualified:
(A) Oral offers may be made;
(B) Written offers pursuant to Rule 254 (§ 230.254) may be made; and
(C) Solicitations of interest and other communications pursuant to
Rule 255 (§ 230.255) may be made.
(iii) Offers may be made after the offering statement has been qualified, but
any written offers must be accompanied with or preceded by the most recent offering
circular filed with the Commission for such offering.
(2) Sales. (i) No sale of securities may be made:
(A) Until the offering statement has been qualified;
(B) By issuers that are not currently required to file reports pursuant to
Rule 257(b) (§ 230.257(b)), until a Preliminary Offering Circular is delivered at least 48
hours before the sale to any person that before qualification of the offering statement had
indicated an interest in purchasing securities in the offering, including those persons that
responded to an issuer’s solicitation of interest materials; and
(C) In a Tier 2 offering of securities that are not listed on a registered
national securities exchange upon qualification, unless the purchaser is either an
accredited investor (as defined in Rule 501 (§ 230.501)) or the aggregate purchase price
to be paid by the purchaser for the securities (including the actual or maximum estimated
conversion, exercise, or exchange price for any underlying securities that have been

354

qualified) is no more than ten percent (10%) of the greater of such purchaser’s:
(1) Annual income or net worth if a natural person (with annual income
and net worth for such natural person purchasers determined as provided in Rule 501
(§ 230.501)); or
(2) Revenue or net assets for such purchaser’s most recently completed
fiscal year end if a non-natural person.
NOTE TO PARAGRAPH (d)(2)(i)(C). When securities underlying warrants or convertible
securities are being qualified pursuant to Tier 2 of Regulation A one year or more
after the qualification of an offering for which investment limitations previously
applied, purchasers of the underlying securities for which investment limitations
would apply at that later date may determine compliance with the ten percent (10%)
investment limitation using the conversion, exercise, or exchange price to acquire the
underlying securities at that later time without aggregating such price with the price
of the overlying warrants or convertible securities.
(D) The issuer may rely on a representation of the purchaser when
determining compliance with the ten percent (10%) investment limitation in this
paragraph (d)(2)(i)(C), provided that the issuer does not know at the time of sale that any
such representation is untrue.
(ii) In a transaction that represents a sale by the issuer or an underwriter, or a
sale by a dealer within 90 calendar days after qualification of the offering statement, each
underwriter or dealer selling in such transaction must deliver to each purchaser from it,
not later than two business days following the completion of such sale, a copy of the
Final Offering Circular, subject to the following provisions:

355

(A) If the sale was by the issuer and was not effected by or through an
underwriter or dealer, the issuer is responsible for delivering the Final Offering Circular
as if the issuer were an underwriter;
(B) For continuous or delayed offerings pursuant to paragraph (d)(3) of
this section, the 90 calendar day period for dealers shall commence on the day of the first
bona fide offering of securities under such offering statement;
(C) If the security is listed on a registered national securities exchange, no
offering circular need be delivered by a dealer more than 25 calendar days after the later
of the qualification date of the offering statement or the first date on which the security
was bona fide offered to the public;
(D) No offering circular need be delivered by a dealer if the issuer is
subject, immediately prior to the time of the filing of the offering statement, to the
reporting requirements of Rule 257(b) (§ 230.257(b)); and
(E) The Final Offering Circular delivery requirements set forth in
paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section may be satisfied by delivering a notice to the effect
that the sale was made pursuant to a qualified offering statement that includes the
uniform resource locator (“URL”), which, in the case of an electronic-only offering, must
be an active hyperlink, where the Final Offering Circular, or the offering statement of
which such Final Offering Circular is part, may be obtained on the Commission’s
Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System (“EDGAR”) and contact
information sufficient to notify a purchaser where a request for a Final Offering Circular
can be sent and received in response.
(3) Continuous or delayed offerings. (i) Continuous or delayed offerings

356

may be made under this Regulation A, so long as the offering statement pertains only to:
(A) Securities that are to be offered or sold solely by or on behalf of a
person or persons other than the issuer, a subsidiary of the issuer, or a person of which
the issuer is a subsidiary;
(B) Securities that are to be offered and sold pursuant to a dividend or
interest reinvestment plan or an employee benefit plan of the issuer;
(C) Securities that are to be issued upon the exercise of outstanding
options, warrants, or rights;
(D) Securities that are to be issued upon conversion of other outstanding
securities;
(E) Securities that are pledged as collateral; or
(F) Securities the offering of which will be commenced within two
calendar days after the qualification date, will be made on a continuous basis, may
continue for a period in excess of 30 calendar days from the date of initial qualification,
and will be offered in an amount that, at the time the offering statement is qualified, is
reasonably expected to be offered and sold within two years from the initial qualification
date. These securities may be offered and sold only if not more than three years have
elapsed since the initial qualification date of the offering statement under which they are
being offered and sold; provided, however, that if a new offering statement has been filed
pursuant to this paragraph (d)(3)(i)(F), securities covered by the prior offering statement
may continue to be offered and sold until the earlier of the qualification date of the new
offering statement or 180 calendar days after the third anniversary of the initial
qualification date of the prior offering statement. Before the end of such three-year

357

period, an issuer may file a new offering statement covering the securities. The new
offering statement must include all the information that would be required at that time in
an offering statement relating to all offerings that it covers. Before the qualification date
of the new offering statement, the issuer may include as part of such new offering
statement any unsold securities covered by the earlier offering statement by identifying
on the cover page of the new offering circular, or the latest amendment, the amount of
such unsold securities being included. The offering of securities on the earlier offering
statement will be deemed terminated as of the date of qualification of the new offering
statement. Securities may be sold pursuant to this paragraph (d)(3)(i)(F) only if the issuer
is current in its annual and semiannual filings pursuant to Rule 257(b) (§230.257(b)), at
the time of such sale.
(ii) At the market offerings, by or on behalf of the issuer or otherwise, are not
permitted under this Regulation A. As used in this paragraph (d)(3)(ii), the term at the
market offering means an offering of equity securities into an existing trading market for
outstanding shares of the same class at other than a fixed price.
(e) Confidential treatment. A request for confidential treatment may be made under
Rule 406 (§ 230.406) for information required to be filed, and Rule 83 (§ 200.83) for
information not required to be filed.
(f) Electronic filing. Documents filed or otherwise provided to the Commission
pursuant to this Regulation A must be submitted in electronic format by means of
EDGAR in accordance with the EDGAR rules set forth in Regulation S-T (17 CFR part
232).

358

§ 230.252 Offering statement.
(a) Documents to be included. The offering statement consists of the contents
required by Form 1-A (§ 239.90 of this chapter) and any other material information
necessary to make the required statements, in light of the circumstances under which they
are made, not misleading.
(b) Paper, printing, language and pagination. Except as otherwise specified in this
rule, the requirements for offering statements are the same as those specified in Rule 403
(§ 230.403) for registration statements under the Act. No fee is payable to the
Commission upon either the submission or filing of an offering statement on Form 1-A,
or any amendment to an offering statement.
(c) Signatures. The issuer, its principal executive officer, principal financial officer,
principal accounting officer, and a majority of the members of its board of directors or
other governing body, must sign the offering statement in the manner prescribed by
Form 1-A. If a signature is by a person on behalf of any other person, evidence of
authority to sign must be filed, except where an executive officer signs for the issuer.
(d) Non-public submission. An issuer whose securities have not been previously sold
pursuant to a qualified offering statement under this Regulation A or an effective
registration statement under the Securities Act may submit a draft offering statement to
the Commission for non-public review by the staff of the Commission before public
filing, provided that the offering statement shall not be qualified less than 21 calendar
days after the public filing with the Commission of:
(1) The initial non-public submission;
(2) All non-public amendments; and

359

(3) All non-public correspondence submitted by or on behalf of the issuer to the
Commission staff regarding such submissions (subject to any separately approved
confidential treatment request under Rule 251(e) (§ 230.251(e)).
(e) Qualification. An offering statement and any amendment thereto can be qualified
only at such date and time as the Commission may determine.
(f) Amendments. (1) (i) Amendments to an offering statement must be signed and
filed with the Commission in the same manner as the initial filing. Amendments to an
offering statement must be filed under cover of Form 1-A and must be numbered
consecutively in the order in which filed.
(ii) Every amendment that includes amended audited financial statements
must include the consent of the certifying accountant to the use of such accountant’s
certification in connection with the amended financial statements in the offering
statement or offering circular and to being named as having audited such financial
statements.
(iii) Amendments solely relating to Part III of Form 1-A must comply with the
requirements of paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section, except that such amendments may be
limited to Part I of Form 1-A, an explanatory note, and all of the information required by
Part III of Form 1-A.
(2) Post-qualification amendments must be filed in the following circumstances
for ongoing offerings:
(i) At least every 12 months after the qualification date to include the financial
statements that would be required by Form 1-A as of such date; or
(ii) To reflect any facts or events arising after the qualification date of the

360

offering statement (or the most recent post-qualification amendment thereof) which,
individually or in the aggregate, represent a fundamental change in the information set
forth in the offering statement.
§ 230.253 Offering circular.
(a) Contents. An offering circular must include the information required by
Form 1-A for offering circulars.
(b) Information that may be omitted. Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, a
qualified offering circular may omit information with respect to the public offering price,
underwriting syndicate (including any material relationships between the issuer or selling
securityholders and the unnamed underwriters, brokers or dealers), underwriting
discounts or commissions, discounts or commissions to dealers, amount of proceeds,
conversion rates, call prices and other items dependent upon the offering price, delivery
dates, and terms of the securities dependent upon the offering date; provided, that the
following conditions are met:
(1) The securities to be qualified are offered for cash.
(2) The outside front cover page of the offering circular includes a bona fide
estimate of the range of the maximum offering price and the maximum number of shares
or other units of securities to be offered or a bona fide estimate of the principal amount of
debt securities offered, subject to the following conditions:
(i) The range must not exceed $2 for offerings where the upper end of the
range is $10 or less or 20% if the upper end of the price range is over $10; and
(ii) The upper end of the range must be used in determining the aggregate
offering price under Rule 251(a) (§ 230.251(a)).

361

(3) The offering statement does not relate to securities to be offered by
competitive bidding.
(4) The volume of securities (the number of equity securities or aggregate
principal amount of debt securities) to be offered may not be omitted in reliance on this
paragraph (b).
NOTE TO PARAGRAPH (b). A decrease in the volume of securities offered or a
change in the bona fide estimate of the offering price range from that indicated in
the offering circular filed as part of a qualified offering statement may be
disclosed in the offering circular filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule
253(g) (§ 230.253(g)), so long as the decrease in the volume of securities offered
or change in the price range would not materially change the disclosure contained
in the offering statement at qualification. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any
decrease in the volume of securities offered and any deviation from the low or
high end of the price range may be reflected in the offering circular supplement
filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 253(g)(1) or (3) (§ 230.253(g)(1) or
(3)) if, in the aggregate, the decrease in volume and/or change in price represent
no more than a 20% change from the maximum aggregate offering price
calculable using the information in the qualified offering statement. In no
circumstances may this paragraph be used to offer securities where the maximum
aggregate offering price would result in the offering exceeding the limit set forth
in Rule 251(a) (§ 230.251(a)) or if the change would result in a Tier 1 offering
becoming a Tier 2 offering. An offering circular supplement may not be used to
increase the volume of securities being offered. Additional securities may only be

362

offered pursuant to a new offering statement or post-qualification amendment
qualified by the Commission.
(c) Filing of omitted information. The information omitted from the offering circular
in reliance upon paragraph (b) of this section must be contained in an offering circular
filed with the Commission pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section; except that if such
offering circular is not so filed by the later of 15 business days after the qualification date
of the offering statement or 15 business days after the qualification of a post-qualification
amendment thereto that contains an offering circular, the information omitted in reliance
upon paragraph (b) of this section must be contained in a qualified post-qualification
amendment to the offering statement.
(d) Presentation of information. (1) Information in the offering circular must be
presented in a clear, concise and understandable manner and in a type size that is easily
readable. Repetition of information should be avoided; cross-referencing of information
within the document is permitted.
(2) Where an offering circular is distributed through an electronic medium, issuers
may satisfy legibility requirements applicable to printed documents by presenting all
required information in a format readily communicated to investors.
(e) Date. An offering circular must be dated approximately as of the date it was filed
with the Commission.
(f) Cover page legend. The cover page of every offering circular must display the
following statement highlighted by prominent type or in another manner:
The United States Securities and Exchange Commission does not pass
upon the merits of or give its approval to any securities offered or the

363

terms of the offering, nor does it pass upon the accuracy or completeness
of any offering circular or other solicitation materials. These securities are
offered pursuant to an exemption from registration with the Commission;
however, the Commission has not made an independent determination that
the securities offered are exempt from registration.
(g) Offering circular supplements. (1) An offering circular that discloses information
previously omitted from the offering circular in reliance upon Rule 253(b) (§ 230.253(b))
must be filed with the Commission no later than two business days following the earlier
of the date of determination of the offering price or the date such offering circular is first
used after qualification in connection with a public offering or sale.
(2) An offering circular that reflects information other than that covered in
paragraph (g)(1) of this section that constitutes a substantive change from or addition to
the information set forth in the last offering circular filed with the Commission must be
filed with the Commission no later than five business days after the date it is first used
after qualification in connection with a public offering or sale. If an offering circular
filed pursuant to this paragraph (g)(2) consists of an offering circular supplement attached
to an offering circular that previously had been filed or was not required to be filed
pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section because it did not contain substantive changes
from an offering circular that previously was filed, only the offering circular supplement
need be filed under paragraph (g) of this section, provided that the cover page of the
offering circular supplement identifies the date(s) of the related offering circular and any
offering circular supplements thereto that together constitute the offering circular with
respect to the securities currently being offered or sold.

364

(3) An offering circular that discloses information, facts or events covered in
both paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section must be filed with the Commission no later
than two business days following the earlier of the date of the determination of the
offering price or the date it is first used after qualification in connection with a public
offering or sale.
(4) An offering circular required to be filed pursuant to paragraph (g) of this
section that is not filed within the time frames specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3)
of this section, as applicable, must be filed pursuant to this paragraph (g)(4) as soon as
practicable after the discovery of such failure to file.
(5) Each offering circular filed under this section must contain in the upper right
corner of the cover page the paragraphs of paragraphs (g)(1) through (4) of this section
under which the filing is made, and the file number of the offering statement to which the
offering circular relates.
§ 230.254 Preliminary offering circular.
After the filing of an offering statement, but before its qualification, written offers of
securities may be made if they meet the following requirements:
(a) Outside front cover page. The outside front cover page of the material bears the
caption Preliminary Offering Circular, the date of issuance, and the following legend,
which must be highlighted by prominent type or in another manner:
An offering statement pursuant to Regulation A relating to these securities
has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Information
contained in this Preliminary Offering Circular is subject to completion or
amendment. These securities may not be sold nor may offers to buy be

365

accepted before the offering statement filed with the Commission is
qualified. This Preliminary Offering Circular shall not constitute an offer
to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy nor may there be any sales of
these securities in any state in which such offer, solicitation or sale would
be unlawful before registration or qualification under the laws of any such
state. We may elect to satisfy our obligation to deliver a Final Offering
Circular by sending you a notice within two business days after the
completion of our sale to you that contains the URL where the Final
Offering Circular or the offering statement in which such Final Offering
Circular was filed may be obtained.
(b) Other contents. The Preliminary Offering Circular contains substantially the
information required to be in an offering circular by Form 1-A (§ 239.90 of this chapter),
except that certain information may be omitted under Rule 253(b) (§ 230.253(b)) subject
to the conditions set forth in such rule.
(c) Filing. The Preliminary Offering Circular is filed as a part of the offering
statement.
§ 230.255 Solicitations of interest and other communications.
(a) Solicitation of interest. At any time before the qualification of an offering
statement, including before the non-public submission or public filing of such offering
statement, an issuer or any person authorized to act on behalf of an issuer may
communicate orally or in writing to determine whether there is any interest in a
contemplated securities offering. Such communications are deemed to be an offer of a
security for sale for purposes of the antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws.

366

No solicitation or acceptance of money or other consideration, nor of any commitment,
binding or otherwise, from any person is permitted until qualification of the offering
statement.
(b) Conditions. The communications must:
(1) State that no money or other consideration is being solicited, and if sent in
response, will not be accepted;
(2) State that no offer to buy the securities can be accepted and no part of the
purchase price can be received until the offering statement is qualified, and any such
offer may be withdrawn or revoked, without obligation or commitment of any kind, at
any time before notice of its acceptance given after the qualification date;
(3) State that a person’s indication of interest involves no obligation or
commitment of any kind; and
(4) After the public filing of the offering statement:
(i) State from whom a copy of the most recent version of the Preliminary
Offering Circular may be obtained, including a phone number and address of such
person;
(ii) Provide the URL where such Preliminary Offering Circular, or the
offering statement in which such Preliminary Offering Circular was filed, may be
obtained; or
(iii) Include a complete copy of the Preliminary Offering Circular.
(c) Indications of interest. Any written communication under this rule may include a
means by which a person may indicate to the issuer that such person is interested in a
potential offering. This issuer may require the name, address, telephone number, and/or

367

e-mail address in any response form included pursuant to this paragraph (c).
(d) Revised solicitations of interest. If solicitation of interest materials are used after
the public filing of the offering statement and such solicitation of interest materials
contain information that is inaccurate or inadequate in any material respect, revised
solicitation of interest materials must be redistributed in a substantially similar manner as
such materials were originally distributed. Notwithstanding the foregoing in this
paragraph (d), if the only information that is inaccurate or inadequate is contained in a
Preliminary Offering Circular provided with the solicitation of interest materials pursuant
to paragraphs (b)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section, no such redistribution is required in the
following circumstances:
(1) in the case of paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, the revised Preliminary
Offering Circular will be provided to any persons making new inquiries and will be
recirculated to any persons making any previous inquiries; or
(2) in the case of paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, the URL continues to link
directly to the most recent Preliminary Offering Circular or to the offering statement in
which such revised Preliminary Offering Circular was filed.
(e) Abandoned offerings. Where an issuer decides to register an offering under the
Securities Act after soliciting interest in a contemplated, but subsequently abandoned,
Regulation A offering, the abandoned Regulation A offering would not be subject to
integration with the registered offering if the issuer engaged in solicitations of interest
pursuant to this rule only to qualified institutional buyers and institutional accredited
investors permitted by Section 5(d) of the Securities Act. If the issuer engaged in
solicitations of interest to persons other than qualified institutional buyers and

368

institutional accredited investors, an abandoned Regulation A offering would not be
subject to integration if the issuer (and any underwriter, broker, dealer, or agent used by
the issuer in connection with the proposed offering) waits at least 30 calendar days
between the last such solicitation of interest in the Regulation A offering and the filing of
the registration statement with the Commission.
§ 230.256 Definition of “qualified purchaser”.
For purposes of Section 18(b)(3) of the Securities Act [15 USC 77r(b)(3)], a
“qualified purchaser” means any person to whom securities are offered or sold pursuant
to a Tier 2 offering of this Regulation A.
§ 230.257 Periodic and current reporting; exit report.
(a) Tier 1: Exit report. Each issuer that has filed an offering statement for a Tier 1
offering that has been qualified pursuant to this Regulation A must file an exit report on
Form 1-Z (§ 239.94 of this chapter) not later than 30 calendar days after the termination
or completion of the offering.
(b) Tier 2: Periodic and current reporting. Each issuer that has filed an offering
statement for a Tier 2 offering that has been qualified pursuant to this Regulation A must
file with the Commission the following periodic and current reports:
(1) Annual reports. An annual report on Form 1-K (§ 239.91 of this chapter) for
the fiscal year in which the offering statement became qualified and for any fiscal year
thereafter, unless the issuer’s obligation to file such annual report is suspended under
paragraph (d) of this section. Annual reports must be filed within the period specified in
Form 1-K.
(2) Special financial report. (i) A special financial report on Form 1-K or

369

Form 1-SA if the offering statement did not contain the following:
(A) audited financial statements for the issuer’s most recent fiscal year (or
for the life of the issuer if less than a full fiscal year) preceding the fiscal year in which
the issuer’s offering statement became qualified; or
(B) unaudited financial statements covering the first six months of the
issuer’s current fiscal year if the offering statement was qualified during the last six
months of that fiscal year.
(ii) The special financial report described in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this
section must be filed under cover of Form 1-K within 120 calendar days after the
qualification date of the offering statement and must include audited financial statements
for such fiscal year or other period specified in that paragraph, as the case may be. The
special financial report described in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section must be filed
under cover of Form 1-SA within 90 calendar days after the qualification date of the
offering statement and must include the semiannual financial statements for the first six
months of the issuer’s fiscal year, which may be unaudited.
(iii) A special financial report must be signed in accordance with the
requirements of the form on which it is filed.
(3) Semiannual report. A semiannual report on Form 1-SA (§ 239.92 of this
chapter) within the period specified in Form 1-SA. Semiannual reports must cover the
first six months of each fiscal year of the issuer, commencing with the first six months of
the fiscal year immediately following the most recent fiscal year for which full financial
statements were included in the offering statement, or, if the offering statement included
financial statements for the first six months of the fiscal year following the most recent

370

full fiscal year, for the first six months of the following fiscal year.
(4) Current reports. Current reports on Form 1-U (§ 239.93 of this chapter) with
respect to the matters and within the period specified in that form, unless substantially the
same information has been previously reported to the Commission by the issuer under
cover of Form 1-K or Form 1-SA.
(5) Reporting by successor issuers. Where in connection with a succession by
merger, consolidation, exchange of securities, acquisition of assets or otherwise,
securities of any issuer that is not required to file reports pursuant to paragraph (b) of this
section are issued to the holders of any class of securities of another issuer that is required
to file such reports, the duty to file reports pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section shall
be deemed to have been assumed by the issuer of the class of securities so issued. The
successor issuer must, after the consummation of the succession, file reports in
accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, unless that issuer is exempt from filing
such reports or the duty to file such reports is terminated or suspended under paragraph
(d) of this section.
(c) Amendments. All amendments to the reports described in paragraphs (a) and (b)
of this section must be filed under cover of the form amended, marked with the letter A to
designate the document as an amendment, e.g., “1-K/A,” and in compliance with
pertinent requirements applicable to such reports. Amendments filed pursuant to this
paragraph (c) must set forth the complete text of each item as amended, but need not
include any items that were not amended. Amendments must be numbered sequentially
and be filed separately for each report amended. Amendments must be signed on behalf
of the issuer by a duly authorized representative of the issuer. An amendment to any

371

report required to include certifications as specified in the applicable form must include
new certifications by the appropriate persons.
(d) Suspension of duty to file reports. (1) The duty to file reports under this rule
shall be automatically suspended if and so long as the issuer is subject to the duty to file
reports required by section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m or 15 U.S.C.
78o).
(2) The duty to file reports under paragraph (b) of this section with respect to a
class of securities held of record (as defined in Rule 12g5-1 (§ 240.12g5-1 of this
chapter)) by less than 300 persons, or less than 1,200 persons for a bank (as defined in
Section 3(a)(6) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(6)), or a bank holding company
(as defined in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841)),
shall be suspended for such class of securities immediately upon filing with the
Commission an exit report on Form 1-Z (§ 239.94 of this chapter) if the issuer of such
class has filed all reports due pursuant to this rule before the date of such Form 1-Z filing
for the shorter of:
(i) The period since the issuer became subject to such reporting obligation; or
(ii) Its most recent three fiscal years and the portion of the current year
preceding the date of filing Form 1-Z.
(3) For the purposes of paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the term class shall be
construed to include all securities of an issuer that are of substantially similar character
and the holders of which enjoy substantially similar rights and privileges. If the Form
1-Z is subsequently withdrawn or if it is denied because the issuer was ineligible to use
the form, the issuer must, within 60 calendar days, file with the Commission all reports

372

which would have been required if such exit report had not been filed. If the suspension
resulted from the issuer’s merger into, or consolidation with, another issuer or issuers, the
notice must be filed by the successor issuer.
(4) The ability to suspend reporting, as described in paragraph (d)(2) of this
section, is not available for any class of securities if:
(i) During that fiscal year a Tier 2 offering statement was qualified;
(ii) The issuer has not filed an annual report under this rule or the Exchange
Act for the fiscal year in which a Tier 2 offering statement was qualified; or
(iii) Offers or sales of securities of that class are being made pursuant to a
Tier 2 Regulation A offering.
(e) Termination of duty to file reports. If the duty to file reports is suspended
pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section and such suspension ends because the issuer
terminates or suspends its duty to file reports under the Exchange Act, the issuer’s
obligation to file reports under paragraph (b) of this section shall:
(1) Automatically terminate if the issuer is eligible to suspend its duty to file
reports under paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section; or
(2) Recommence with the report covering the most recent financial period after
that included in any effective registration statement or filed Exchange Act report.
§ 230.258 Suspension of the exemption.
(a) Suspension. The Commission may at any time enter an order temporarily
suspending a Regulation A exemption if it has reason to believe that:
(1) No exemption is available or any of the terms, conditions or requirements of
Regulation A have not been complied with;

373

(2) The offering statement, any sales or solicitation of interest material, or any
report filed pursuant to Rule 257 (§ 230.257) contains any untrue statement of a material
fact or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading;
(3) The offering is being made or would be made in violation of section 17 of the
Securities Act;
(4) An event has occurred after the filing of the offering statement that would
have rendered the exemption hereunder unavailable if it had occurred before such filing;
(5) Any person specified in Rule 262(a) (§ 230.262(a)) has been indicted for any
crime or offense of the character specified in Rule 262(a)(1) (§ 230.262(a)(1)), or any
proceeding has been initiated for the purpose of enjoining any such person from engaging
in or continuing any conduct or practice of the character specified in Rule 262(a)(2)
(§ 230.262(a)(2)), or any proceeding has been initiated for the purposes of Rule
262(a)(3)-(8) (§ 230.262(a)(3) through (8)); or
(6) The issuer or any promoter, officer, director, or underwriter has failed to
cooperate, or has obstructed or refused to permit the making of an investigation by the
Commission in connection with any offering made or proposed to be made in reliance on
Regulation A.
(b) Notice and hearing. Upon the entry of an order under paragraph (a) of this
section, the Commission will promptly give notice to the issuer, any underwriter, and any
selling securityholder:
(1) That such order has been entered, together with a brief statement of the
reasons for the entry of the order; and

374

(2) That the Commission, upon receipt of a written request within 30 calendar
days after the entry of the order, will, within 20 calendar days after receiving the request,
order a hearing at a place to be designated by the Commission.
(c) Suspension order. If no hearing is requested and none is ordered by the
Commission, an order entered under paragraph (a) of this section shall become
permanent on the 30th calendar day after its entry and shall remain in effect unless or
until it is modified or vacated by the Commission. Where a hearing is requested or is
ordered by the Commission, the Commission will, after notice of and opportunity for
such hearing, either vacate the order or enter an order permanently suspending the
exemption.
(d) Permanent suspension. The Commission may, at any time after notice of and
opportunity for hearing, enter an order permanently suspending the exemption for any
reason upon which it could have entered a temporary suspension order under paragraph
(a) of this section. Any such order shall remain in effect until vacated by the
Commission.
(e) Notice procedures. All notices required by this rule must be given by personal
service, registered or certified mail to the addresses given by the issuer, any underwriter
and any selling securityholder in the offering statement.
§ 230.259 Withdrawal or abandonment of offering statements.
(a) Withdrawal. If none of the securities that are the subject of an offering statement
has been sold and such offering statement is not the subject of a proceeding under
Rule 258 (§ 230.258), the offering statement may be withdrawn with the Commission’s
consent. The application for withdrawal must state the reason the offering statement is to

375

be withdrawn and must be signed by an authorized representative of the issuer. Any
withdrawn document will remain in the Commission’s files, as well as the related request
for withdrawal.
(b) Abandonment. When an offering statement has been on file with the
Commission for nine months without amendment and has not become qualified, the
Commission may, in its discretion, declare the offering statement abandoned. If the
offering statement has been amended, the nine-month period shall be computed from the
date of the latest amendment.
§ 230.260 Insignificant deviations from a term, condition or requirement of
Regulation A.
(a) Failure to comply. A failure to comply with a term, condition or requirement of
Regulation A will not result in the loss of the exemption from the requirements of section
5 of the Securities Act for any offer or sale to a particular individual or entity, if the
person relying on the exemption establishes that:
(1) The failure to comply did not pertain to a term, condition or requirement
directly intended to protect that particular individual or entity;
(2) The failure to comply was insignificant with respect to the offering as a whole,
provided that any failure to comply with Rule 251(a), (b), and (d)(1) and (3)
(§ 230.251(a), (b), and (d)(1) and (3)) shall be deemed to be significant to the offering as
a whole; and
(3) A good faith and reasonable attempt was made to comply with all applicable
terms, conditions and requirements of Regulation A.
(b) Action by Commission. A transaction made in reliance upon Regulation A must
comply with all applicable terms, conditions and requirements of the regulation. Where
376

an exemption is established only through reliance upon paragraph (a) of this section, the
failure to comply shall nonetheless be actionable by the Commission under section 20 of
the Securities Act.
(c) Suspension. This provision provides no relief or protection from a proceeding
under Rule 258 (§ 230.258).
§ 230.261 Definitions.
As used in this Regulation A, all terms have the same meanings as in Rule 405
(§ 230.405), except that all references to registrant in those definitions shall refer to the
issuer of the securities to be offered and sold under Regulation A. In addition, these
terms have the following meanings:
(a) Affiliated issuer. An affiliate (as defined in Rule 501 (§ 230.501)) of the issuer
that is issuing securities in the same offering.
(b) Business day. Any day except Saturdays, Sundays or United States federal
holidays.
(c) Eligible securities. Equity securities, debt securities, and securities convertible
or exchangeable to equity interests, including any guarantees of such securities, but not
including asset-backed securities as such term is defined in Item 1101(c) of Regulation
AB.
(d) Final order. A written directive or declaratory statement issued by a federal or
state agency described in Rule 262(a)(3) (§ 230.262(a)(3)) under applicable statutory
authority that provides for notice and an opportunity for hearing, which constitutes a final
disposition or action by that federal or state agency.
(e) Final offering circular. The more recent of: the current offering circular

377

contained in a qualified offering statement; and any offering circular filed pursuant to
Rule 253(g) (§ 230.253(g)). If, however, the issuer is relying on Rule 253(b)
((§ 230.253(b)), the Final Offering Circular is the most recent of the offering circular
filed pursuant to Rule 253(g)(1) or (3) (§ 230.253(g)(1) or (3)) and any subsequent
offering circular filed pursuant to Rule 253(g) (§ 230.253(g)).
(f) Offering statement. An offering statement prepared pursuant to Regulation A.
(g) Preliminary offering circular. The offering circular described in Rule 254
(§ 230.254).
§ 230.262 Disqualification provisions.
(a) Disqualification events. No exemption under this Regulation A shall be
available for a sale of securities if the issuer; any predecessor of the issuer; any affiliated
issuer; any director, executive officer, other officer participating in the offering, general
partner or managing member of the issuer; any beneficial owner of 20% or more of the
issuer's outstanding voting equity securities, calculated on the basis of voting power; any
promoter connected with the issuer in any capacity at the time of filing, any offer after
qualification, or such sale; any person that has been or will be paid (directly or indirectly)
remuneration for solicitation of purchasers in connection with such sale of securities; any
general partner or managing member of any such solicitor; or any director, executive
officer or other officer participating in the offering of any such solicitor or general partner
or managing member of such solicitor:
(1) Has been convicted, within ten years before the filing of the offering statement
(or five years, in the case of issuers, their predecessors and affiliated issuers), of any
felony or misdemeanor:

378

(i) In connection with the purchase or sale of any security;
(ii) Involving the making of any false filing with the Commission; or
(iii) Arising out of the conduct of the business of an underwriter, broker,
dealer, municipal securities dealer, investment adviser or paid solicitor of purchasers of
securities;
(2) Is subject to any order, judgment or decree of any court of competent
jurisdiction, entered within five years before the filing of the offering statement, that, at
the time of such filing, restrains or enjoins such person from engaging or continuing to
engage in any conduct or practice:
(i) In connection with the purchase or sale of any security;
(ii) Involving the making of any false filing with the Commission; or
(iii) Arising out of the conduct of the business of an underwriter, broker,
dealer, municipal securities dealer, investment adviser or paid solicitor of purchasers of
securities;
(3) Is subject to a final order (as defined in Rule 261 (§ 230.261)) of a state
securities commission (or an agency or officer of a state performing like functions); a
state authority that supervises or examines banks, savings associations, or credit unions; a
state insurance commission (or an agency or officer of a state performing like functions);
an appropriate federal banking agency; the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission; or the National Credit Union Administration that:
(i) At the time of the filing of the offering statement, bars the person from:
(A) Association with an entity regulated by such commission, authority,
agency, or officer;

379

(B) Engaging in the business of securities, insurance or banking; or
(C) Engaging in savings association or credit union activities; or
(ii) Constitutes a final order based on a violation of any law or regulation that
prohibits fraudulent, manipulative, or deceptive conduct entered within ten years before
such filing of the offering statement;
(4) Is subject to an order of the Commission entered pursuant to section 15(b) or
15B(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78 o (b) or 78 o -4(c)) or
section 203(e) or (f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-3(e) or (f))
that, at the time of the filing of the offering statement:
(i) Suspends or revokes such person's registration as a broker, dealer,
municipal securities dealer or investment adviser;
(ii) Places limitations on the activities, functions or operations of such
person; or
(iii) Bars such person from being associated with any entity or from
participating in the offering of any penny stock;
(5) Is subject to any order of the Commission entered within five years before the
filing of the offering statement that, at the time of such filing, orders the person to cease
and desist from committing or causing a violation or future violation of:
(i) Any scienter-based anti-fraud provision of the federal securities laws,
including without limitation section 17(a)(1) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C.
77q(a)(1)), section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78j(b)) and
17 CFR 240.10b-5, section 15(c)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C.
78 o (c)(1)) and section 206(1) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-

380

6(1)), or any other rule or regulation thereunder; or
(ii) Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77e).
(6) Is suspended or expelled from membership in, or suspended or barred from
association with a member of, a registered national securities exchange or a registered
national or affiliated securities association for any act or omission to act constituting
conduct inconsistent with just and equitable principles of trade;
(7) Has filed (as a registrant or issuer), or was or was named as an underwriter in,
any registration statement or offering statement filed with the Commission that, within
five years before the filing of the offering statement, was the subject of a refusal order,
stop order, or order suspending the Regulation A exemption, or is, at the time of such
filing, the subject of an investigation or proceeding to determine whether a stop order or
suspension order should be issued; or
(8) Is subject to a United States Postal Service false representation order entered
within five years before the filing of the offering statement, or is, at the time of such
filing, subject to a temporary restraining order or preliminary injunction with respect to
conduct alleged by the United States Postal Service to constitute a scheme or device for
obtaining money or property through the mail by means of false representations.
(b) Transition, waivers, reasonable care exception. Paragraph (a) of this section
shall not apply:
(1) With respect to any order under § 230.262(a)(3) or (5) that occurred or was
issued before [INSERT DAY 60 DAYS AFTER DATE OF PUBLICATION IN THE
FEDERAL REGISTER];
(2) Upon a showing of good cause and without prejudice to any other action by

381

the Commission, if the Commission determines that it is not necessary under the
circumstances that an exemption be denied;
(3) If, before the filing of the offering statement, the court or regulatory authority
that entered the relevant order, judgment or decree advises in writing (whether contained
in the relevant judgment, order or decree or separately to the Commission or its staff) that
disqualification under paragraph (a) of this section should not arise as a consequence of
such order, judgment or decree; or
(4) If the issuer establishes that it did not know and, in the exercise of reasonable
care, could not have known that a disqualification existed under paragraph (a) of this
section.
NOTE TO PARAGRAPH (b)(4). An issuer will not be able to establish that it has
exercised reasonable care unless it has made, in light of the circumstances, factual
inquiry into whether any disqualifications exist. The nature and scope of the
factual inquiry will vary based on the facts and circumstances concerning, among
other things, the issuer and the other offering participants.
(c) Affiliated issuers. For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, events relating to
any affiliated issuer that occurred before the affiliation arose will be not considered
disqualifying if the affiliated entity is not:
(1) In control of the issuer; or
(2) Under common control with the issuer by a third party that was in control of
the affiliated entity at the time of such events.
(d) Disclosure of prior “bad actor” events. The issuer must include in the offering
circular a description of any matters that would have triggered disqualification under

382

paragraphs (a)(3) and (5) of this section but occurred before [INSERT DAY 60 DAYS
AFTER DATE OF PUBLICATION IN THE FEDERAL REGISTER]. The failure to
provide such information shall not prevent an issuer from relying on Regulation A if the
issuer establishes that it did not know and, in the exercise of reasonable care, could not
have known of the existence of the undisclosed matter or matters.
§ 230.263 Consent to service of process.
(a) If the issuer is not organized under the laws of any of the states or territories of
the United States of America, it shall furnish to the Commission a written irrevocable
consent and power of attorney on Form F-X (§ 239.42 of this chapter) at the time of filing
the offering statement required by Rule 252 (§ 230.252).
(b) Any change to the name or address of the agent for service of the issuer shall be
communicated promptly to the Commission through amendment of the requisite form
and referencing the file number of the relevant offering statement.
6.

Section 230.505(b)(2)(iii)(A) and (B) are revised to read as follows:

§ 230.505 Exemption for limited offers and sales of securities not exceeding
$5,000,000.
*****
(b) * * *
(2) * * *
(iii) * * *
(A) The term filing of the offering statement as used in § 230.262 shall mean the
first sale of securities under this section;

383

(B) The term underwriter as used in § 230.262(a) shall mean a person that has
been or will be paid directly or indirectly remuneration for solicitation of purchasers in
connection with sales of securities under this section; and
*****
PART 232 – REGULATION S-T—GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
FOR ELECTRONIC FILINGS
7.

The authority citation for part 232 is revised to read in part as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77c, 77f, 77g, 77h, 77j, 77s(a), 77z-3, 77sss(a), 78c(b), 78l,

78m, 78n, 78o(d), 78w(a), 78ll, 80a-6(c), 80a-8, 80a-29, 80a-30, 80a-37, 7201 et seq.;
and 18 U.S.C. 1350, unless otherwise noted.
*****
8.

Section 232.101 is amended by:
a.

Revising paragraph (a)(1)(vii), (xv), and (xvi), and (c)(6);

b.

Adding paragraph (a)(1)(xvii); and

c.

Removing and reserving paragraph (b)(8).

The revisions and addition read as follows:
§ 232.101 Mandated electronic submissions and exceptions.
(a) * * *
(1) * * *
(vii) Form F-X (§ 239.42 of this chapter) when filed in connection with a Form
CB (§§ 239.800 and 249.480 of this chapter) or a Form 1-A (§ 239.90 of this chapter);
*****
(xv) Form ABS-EE (§249.1401 of this chapter);

384

(xvi) Form ABS-15G (as defined in §249.1400 of this chapter); and
(xvii) Filings made pursuant to Regulation A (§§ 230.251-230.263 of this
chapter).
*****
(c) * * *
(6) Filings on Form 144 (§ 239.144 of this chapter) where the issuer of the
securities is not subject to the reporting requirements of section 13 or 15(d) of the
Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d), respectively).
*****
PART 239 – FORMS PRESCRIBED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
9.

The authority citation for part 239 is revised to read in part as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77c, 77f, 77g, 77h, 77j, 77s, 77z–2, 77z–3, 77sss, 78c, 78 l,

78m,78n, 78 o (d), 78o–7 note, 78u–5, 78w(a), 78ll, 78mm, 80a–2(a), 80a–3, 80a–8, 80a–
9, 80a–10, 80a–13, 80a–24, 80a–26, 80a–29, 80a–30, and 80a–37, unless otherwise
noted.
*****
10.

Amend Form 1-A (referenced in § 239.90) by revising it to read as follows:
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 1-A
REGULATION A OFFERING STATEMENT
UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
I.

Eligibility Requirements for Use of Form 1-A.

385

This Form is to be used for securities offerings made pursuant to Regulation A
(17 CFR 230.251 et seq.). Careful attention should be directed to the terms, conditions
and requirements of Regulation A, especially Rule 251, because the exemption is not
available to all issuers or for every type of securities transaction. Further, the aggregate
offering price and aggregate sales of securities in any 12-month period is strictly limited
to $20 million for Tier 1 offerings and $50 million for Tier 2 offerings, including no more
than $6 million offered by all selling securityholders that are affiliates of the issuer for
Tier 1 offerings and $15 million by all selling securityholders that are affiliates of the
issuer for Tier 2 offerings. Please refer to Rule 251 of Regulation A for more details.
II.

Preparation, Submission and Filing of the Offering Statement.

An offering statement must be prepared by all persons seeking exemption under
the provisions of Regulation A. Parts I, II and III must be addressed by all issuers.
Part II, which relates to the content of the required offering circular, provides alternative
formats, of which the issuer must choose one. General information regarding the
preparation, format, content, and submission or filing of the offering statement is
contained in Rule 252. Information regarding non-public submission of the offering
statement is contained in Rule 252(d). Requirements relating to the offering circular are
contained in Rules 253 and 254. The offering statement must be submitted or filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission in electronic format by means of the
Commission’s Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System (EDGAR) in
accordance with the EDGAR rules set forth in Regulation S-T (17 CFR Part 232) for
such submission or filing.
III.

Incorporation by Reference and Cross-Referencing.

An issuer may incorporate by reference to other documents previously submitted
or filed on EDGAR. Cross-referencing within the offering statement is also encouraged
to avoid repetition of information. For example, you may respond to an item of this Form
by providing a cross-reference to the location of the information in the financial
statements, instead of repeating such information. Incorporation by reference and crossreferencing are subject to the following additional conditions:
(a) The use of incorporation by reference and cross-referencing in Part II of this Form is
limited to the following items:
(1) Items 2-14 of Part II if following the Offering Circular format;
(2) Items 3-11 (other than Item 11(e)) of Form S-1 if following the Part I of Form
S-1 format; or
(3) Items 3-26, 28, and 30 of Form S-11 if following the Part I of Form S-11
format.

386

(b) Descriptions of where the information incorporated by reference or cross-referenced
can be found must be specific and must clearly identify the relevant document and
portion thereof where such information can be found. For exhibits incorporated by
reference, this description must be noted in the exhibits index for each relevant exhibit.
All descriptions of where information incorporated by reference can be found must be
accompanied by a hyperlink to the incorporated document on EDGAR, which hyperlink
need not remain active after the filing of the offering statement. Inactive hyperlinks must
be updated in any amendment to the offering statement otherwise required.
(c) Reference may not be made to any document if the portion of such document
containing the pertinent information includes an incorporation by reference to another
document. Incorporation by reference to documents not available on EDGAR is not
permitted. Incorporating information into the financial statements from elsewhere is not
permitted. Information shall not be incorporated by reference or cross-referenced in any
case where such incorporation would render the statement or report incomplete, unclear,
or confusing.
(d) If any substantive modification has occurred in the text of any document incorporated
by reference since such document was filed, the issuer must file with the reference a
statement containing the text and date of such modification.
IV.

Supplemental Information.

The information specified below must be furnished to the Commission as
supplemental information, if applicable. Supplemental information shall not be required
to be filed with or deemed part of the offering statement, unless otherwise required. The
information shall be returned to the issuer upon request made in writing at the time of
submission, provided that the return of such information is consistent with the protection
of investors and the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act [5 U.S.C. 552] and the
information was not filed in electronic format.
(a) A statement as to whether or not the amount of compensation to be allowed or paid to
the underwriter has been cleared with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
(FINRA).
(b) Any engineering, management, market, or similar report referenced in the offering
circular or provided for external use by the issuer or by a principal underwriter in
connection with the proposed offering. There must also be furnished at the same time a
statement as to the actual or proposed use and distribution of such report or
memorandum. Such statement must identify each class of persons who have received or
will receive the report or memorandum, and state the number of copies distributed to
each such class along with a statement as to the actual or proposed use and distribution of
such report or memorandum.

387

(c) Such other information as requested by the staff in support of statements,
representations and other assertions contained in the offering statement or any
correspondence to the staff.
Correspondence appropriately responding to any staff comments made on the
offering statement must also be furnished electronically. When applicable, such
correspondence must clearly indicate where changes responsive to the staff’s comments
may be found in the offering statement.
PART I—NOTIFICATION
The following information must be provided in the XML-based portion of
Form 1-A available through the EDGAR portal and must be completed or updated before
uploading each offering statement or amendment thereto. The format of Part I shown
below may differ from the electronic version available on EDGAR. The electronic
version of Part I will allow issuers to attach Part II and Part III for filing by means of
EDGAR. All items must be addressed, unless otherwise indicated.
* * * * * *
No changes to the information required by Part I have occurred since the last filing of
this offering statement.
ITEM 1.

Issuer Information

Exact name of issuer as specified in the issuer’s charter:
Jurisdiction of incorporation/organization:
Year of incorporation:
CIK:
Primary Standard Industrial Classification Code:
I.R.S. Employer Identification Number:
Total number of full-time employees:

Total number of part-time employees:
Contact Information
Address of Principal Executive Offices:

388

Telephone: ( )
Provide the following information for the person the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s staff should call in connection with any pre-qualification review of the
offering statement:
Name:
Address:
Telephone: ( )
Provide up to two e-mail addresses to which the Securities and Exchange Commission’s
staff may send any comment letters relating to the offering statement. After qualification
of the offering statement, such e-mail addresses are not required to remain active:

Financial Statements
Industry Group (select one):

Banking

Insurance

Other

Use the financial statements for the most recent fiscal period contained in this offering
statement to provide the following information about the issuer. The following table
does not include all of the line items from the financial statements. Long Term Debt
would include notes payable, bonds, mortgages, and similar obligations. To determine
“Total Revenues” for all companies selecting “Other” for their industry group, refer to
Article 5-03(b)(1) of Regulation S-X. For companies selecting “Insurance,” refer to
Article 7-04 of Regulation S-X for calculation of “Total Revenues” and paragraphs 5 and
7(a) for “Costs and Expenses Applicable to Revenues”.
[If “Other” is selected, display the following options in the Financial Statements
table:]
Balance Sheet Information
Cash and Cash Equivalents:
Investment Securities:
Accounts and Notes Receivable:
Property, Plant and Equipment (PP&E):
Total Assets:
Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities:
Long Term Debt:
Total Liabilities:
Total Stockholders’ Equity:
Total Liabilities and Equity:
Income Statement Information
389

Total Revenues:
Costs and Expenses Applicable to Revenues:
Depreciation and Amortization:
Net Income:
Earnings Per Share – Basic:
Earnings Per Share – Diluted:
[If “Banking” is selected, display the following options in the Financial Statements
table:]
Balance Sheet Information
Cash and Cash Equivalents:
Investment Securities:
Loans:
Property and Equipment:
Total Assets:
Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities:
Deposits:
Long Term Debt:
Total Liabilities:
Total Stockholders’ Equity:
Total Liabilities and Equity:
Income Statement Information
Total Interest Income:
Total Interest Expense:
Depreciation and Amortization:
Net Income:
Earnings Per Share – Basic:
Earnings Per Share – Diluted:
[If “Insurance” is selected, display the following options in the Financial Statements
table:]
Balance Sheet Information
Cash and Cash Equivalents:
Total Investments:
Accounts and Notes Receivable:
Property and Equipment:
390

Total Assets:
Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities:
Policy Liabilities and Accruals:
Long Term Debt:
Total Liabilities:
Total Stockholders’ Equity:
Total Liabilities and Equity:
Income Statement Information
Total Revenues:
Costs and Expenses Applicable to Revenues:
Depreciation and Amortization:
Net Income:
Earnings Per Share – Basic:
Earnings Per Share – Diluted:
[End of section that varies based on the selection of Industry Group]
Name of Auditor (if any):
Outstanding Securities
Name of
Class
(if any)

Units
Outstanding

CUSIP
(if any)

Name of Trading
Center or Quotation
Medium (if any)

Common Equity
Preferred Equity
Debt Securities
ITEM 2.

Issuer Eligibility

Check this box to certify that all of the following statements are true for the issuer(s):
•

Organized under the laws of the United States or Canada, or any State,
Province, Territory or possession thereof, or the District of Columbia.

•

Principal place of business is in the United States or Canada.

•

Not subject to section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

391

•

Not a development stage company that either (a) has no specific business plan
or purpose, or (b) has indicated that its business plan is to merge with an
unidentified company or companies.

•

Not an investment company registered or required to be registered under the
Investment Company Act of 1940.

•

Not issuing fractional undivided interests in oil or gas rights, or a similar
interest in other mineral rights.

•

Not issuing asset-backed securities as defined in Item 1101(c) of Regulation
AB.

•

Not, and has not been, subject to any order of the Commission entered pursuant
to Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78l(j)) within five years before
the filing of this offering statement.

•

Has filed with the Commission all the reports it was required to file, if any,
pursuant to Rule 257 during the two years immediately before the filing of the
offering statement (or for such shorter period that the issuer was required to file
such reports).

ITEM 3.

Application of Rule 262

Check this box to certify that, as of the time of this filing, each person described in
Rule 262 of Regulation A is either not disqualified under that rule or is disqualified but
has received a waiver of such disqualification.
Check this box if “bad actor” disclosure under Rule 262(d) is provided in Part II of the
offering statement.
ITEM 4.

Summary Information Regarding the Offering and Other Current or
Proposed Offerings

Check the appropriate box to indicate whether you are conducting a Tier 1 or Tier 2
offering:
Tier 1

Tier 2

Check the appropriate box to indicate whether the annual financial statements have been
audited:
Unaudited

Audited

Types of Securities Offered in this Offering Statement (select all that apply):
392

Equity (common or preferred stock)
Debt
Option, warrant or other right to acquire another security
Security to be acquired upon exercise of option, warrant or other right to
acquire security
Tenant-in-common securities
Other (describe)
Does the issuer intend to offer the securities on a delayed or continuous basis pursuant to
Rule 251(d)(3)?
Yes

No

Does the issuer intend this offering to last more than one year?
Yes
No
Does the issuer intend to price this offering after qualification pursuant to Rule 253(b)?
Yes No
Will the issuer be conducting a best efforts offering?
Yes
No
Has the issuer used solicitation of interest communications in connection with the
proposed offering?
Yes

No

Does the proposed offering involve the resale of securities by affiliates of the issuer?
Yes
No
Number of securities offered:
Number of securities of that class already outstanding:
The information called for by this item below may be omitted if undetermined at the time
of filing or submission, except that if a price range has been included in the offering
statement, the midpoint of that range must be used to respond. Please refer to
Rule 251(a) for the definition of “aggregate offering price” or “aggregate sales” as used
in this item. Please leave the field blank if undetermined at this time and include a zero if
a particular item is not applicable to the offering.
Price per security: $

393

The portion of the aggregate offering price attributable to securities being offered on
behalf of the issuer:
$
The portion of the aggregate offering price attributable to securities being offered on
behalf of selling securityholders:
$
The portion of aggregate offering attributable to all the securities of the issuer sold
pursuant to a qualified offering statement within the 12 months before the qualification of
this offering statement:
$
The estimated portion of aggregate sales attributable to securities that may be sold
pursuant to any other qualified offering statement concurrently with securities being sold
under this offering statement:
$
Total: $
(the sum of the aggregate offering price and aggregate
sales in the four preceding paragraphs).
Anticipated fees in connection with this offering and names of service providers:
Name of Service Provider
Underwriters:
Sales Commissions:
Finders’ Fees:
Audit:
Legal:
Promoters:
Blue Sky Compliance:

Fees
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

CRD Number of any broker or dealer listed:
Estimated net proceeds to the issuer: $
Clarification of responses (if necessary):
ITEM 5.

Jurisdictions in Which Securities are to be Offered

Using the list below, select the jurisdictions in which the issuer intends to offer the
securities:
[List will include all U.S. and Canadian jurisdictions, with an option to add
and remove them individually, add all and remove all.]

394

Using the list below, select the jurisdictions in which the securities are to be offered by
underwriters, dealers or sales persons or check the appropriate box:
None
Same as the jurisdictions in which the issuer intends to offer the securities.
[List will include all U.S. and Canadian jurisdictions, with an option to add
and remove them individually, add all and remove all.]
ITEM 6.

Unregistered Securities Issued or Sold Within One Year

None
As to any unregistered securities issued by the issuer or any of its predecessors or
affiliated issuers within one year before the filing of this Form 1-A, state:
(a) Name of such issuer.
(b) (1) Title of securities issued
(2) Total amount of such securities issued
(3) Amount of such securities sold by or for the account of any person who at the
time was a director, officer, promoter or principal securityholder of the issuer of such
securities, or was an underwriter of any securities of such issuer
(c) (1) Aggregate consideration for which the securities were issued and basis for
computing the amount thereof.

(2) Aggregate consideration for which the securities listed in (b)(3) of this item (if
any) were issued and the basis for computing the amount thereof (if different from the
basis described in (c)(1)).

(e) Indicate the section of the Securities Act or Commission rule or regulation relied upon
for exemption from the registration requirements of such Act and state briefly the facts
relied upon for such exemption:

PART II — INFORMATION REQUIRED IN OFFERING CIRCULAR

395

(a) Financial statement requirements regardless of the applicable disclosure format are
specified in Part F/S of this Form 1-A. The narrative disclosure contents of offering
circulars are specified as follows:
(1) The information required by:
(i) the Offering Circular format described below; or
(ii) The information required by Part I of Form S-1 (17 CFR 239.11) or
Part I of Form S-11 (17 CFR 239.18), except for the financial statements,
selected financial data, and supplementary financial information called for
by those forms. An issuer choosing to follow the Form S-1 or Form S-11
format may follow the requirements for smaller reporting companies if it
meets the definition of that term in Rule 405 (17 CFR 230.405). An issuer
may only use the Form S-11 format if the offering is eligible to be
registered on that form;
The cover page of the offering circular must identify which disclosure format is
being followed.
(2) The offering circular must describe any matters that would have triggered
disqualification under Rule 262(a)(3) or (a)(5) but for the provisions set forth in
Rule 262(b)(1);
(3) The legend required by Rule 253(f) of Regulation A must be included on the
offering circular cover page (for issuers following the S-1 or S-11 disclosure
models this legend must be included instead of the legend required by Item
501(b)(7) of Regulation S-K);
(4) For preliminary offering circulars, the legend required by Rule 254(a) must be
included on the offering circular cover page (for issuers following the S-1 or S-11
disclosure models, this legend must be included instead of the legend required by
Item 501(b)(10) of Regulation S-K); and
(5) For Tier 2 offerings where the securities will not be listed on a registered
national securities exchange upon qualification, the offering circular cover page
must include the following legend highlighted by prominent type or in another
manner:
Generally, no sale may be made to you in this offering if the aggregate
purchase price you pay is more than 10% of the greater of your annual
income or net worth. Different rules apply to accredited investors and
non-natural persons. Before making any representation that your
investment does not exceed applicable thresholds, we encourage you to
review Rule 251(d)(2)(i)(C) of Regulation A. For general information on
investing, we encourage you to refer to www.investor.gov.
396

(b) The Commission encourages the use of management’s projections of future economic
performance that have a reasonable basis and are presented in an appropriate format. See
Rule 175, 17 CFR 230.175.
(c) Offering circulars need not follow the order of the items or the order of other
requirements of the disclosure form except to the extent otherwise specifically
provided. Such information may not, however, be set forth in such a fashion as to
obscure any of the required information or any information necessary to keep the
required information from being incomplete or misleading. Information requested to be
presented in a specified tabular format must be given in substantially the tabular format
specified. For incorporation by reference, please refer to General Instruction III of this
Form.
OFFERING CIRCULAR
Item 1.

Cover Page of Offering Circular

The cover page of the offering circular must be limited to one page and must include the
information specified in this item.
(a) Name of the issuer.
Instruction to Item 1(a):
If your name is the same as, or confusingly similar to, that of a company that is
well known, include information to eliminate any possible confusion with the
other company. If your name indicates a line of business in which you are not
engaged or you are engaged only to a limited extent, include information to
eliminate any misleading inference as to your business. In some circumstances,
disclosure may not be sufficient and you may be required to change your name.
You will not be required to change your name if you are an established company,
the character of your business has changed, and the investing public is generally
aware of the change and the character of your current business.
(b) Full mailing address of the issuer’s principal executive offices and the issuer’s
telephone number (including the area code) and, if applicable, website address.
(c) Date of the offering circular.
(d) Title and amount of securities offered. Separately state the amount of securities
offered by selling securityholders, if any. Include a cross-reference to the section where
the disclosure required by Item 14 of Part II of this Form 1-A has been provided;

397

(e) The information called for by the applicable table below as to all the securities being
offered, in substantially the tabular format indicated. If necessary, you may estimate any
underwriting discounts and commissions and the proceeds to the issuer or other persons.
Price to public

Underwriting
discount and
commissions

Proceeds to
issuer

Proceeds to
other persons

Per
_____________ _____________ _________
share/unit:

_________

_____________ _____________ _________

_________

Total:

If the securities are to be offered on a best efforts basis, the cover page must set forth the
termination date, if any, of the offering, any minimum required sale and any
arrangements to place the funds received in an escrow, trust, or similar arrangement. The
following table must be used instead of the preceding table.
Price to public

Underwriting
discount and
commissions

Proceeds to
issuer

Proceeds to
other persons

Per share/unit:

_____________

_____________

_____________

_____________

Total
Minimum:

_____________

_____________

_____________

_____________

Total
Maximum:

_____________

_____________

_____________

_____________

Instructions to Item 1(e):
1. The term “commissions” includes all cash, securities, contracts, or anything
else of value, paid, to be set aside, disposed of, or understandings with or for the
benefit of any other persons in which any underwriter is interested, made in
connection with the sale of such security.
2. Only commissions paid by the issuer in cash are to be indicated in the table.
Commissions paid by other persons or any form of non-cash compensation must
be briefly identified in a footnote to the table with a cross-reference to a more
complete description elsewhere in the offering circular.
3. Before the commencement of sales pursuant to Regulation A, the issuer must
inform the Commission whether or not the amount of compensation to be allowed
or paid to the underwriters, as described in the offering statement, has been
cleared with FINRA.
398

4. If the securities are not to be offered for cash, state the basis upon which the
offering is to be made.
5. Any finder’s fees or similar payments must be disclosed on the cover page with
a reference to a more complete discussion in the offering circular. Such
disclosure must identify the finder, the nature of the services rendered and the
nature of any relationship between the finder and the issuer, its officers, directors,
promoters, principal stockholders and underwriters (including any affiliates of
such persons).
6. The amount of the expenses of the offering borne by the issuer, including
underwriting expenses to be borne by the issuer, must be disclosed in a footnote
to the table.
(f) The name of the underwriter or underwriters.
(g) Any legend or information required by the law of any state in which the securities are
to be offered.
(h) A cross-reference to the risk factors section, including the page number where it
appears in the offering circular. Highlight this cross-reference by prominent type or in
another manner.
(i) Approximate date of commencement of proposed sale to the public.
(j) If the issuer intends to rely on Rule 253(b) and a preliminary offering circular is
circulated, provide (1) a bona fide estimate of the range of the maximum offering price
and the maximum number of securities offered or (2) a bona fide estimate of the principal
amount of the debt securities offered. The range must not exceed $2 for offerings where
the upper end of the range is $10 or less and 20% if the upper end of the price range is
over $10.
Instruction to Item 1(j):
The upper limit of the price range must be used in determining the aggregate
offering price for purposes of Rule 251(a).
Item 2.

Table of Contents

On the page immediately following the cover page of the offering circular, provide a
reasonably detailed table of contents. It must show the page numbers of the various
sections or subdivisions of the offering circular. Include a specific listing of the risk
factors section required by Item 3 of Part II of this Form 1-A.

399

Item 3.

Summary and Risk Factors

(a) An issuer may provide a summary of the information in the offering circular where
the length or complexity of the offering circular makes a summary useful. The summary
should be brief and must not contain all of the detailed information in the offering
circular.
(b) Immediately following the Table of Contents required by Item 2 or the Summary,
there must be set forth under an appropriate caption, a carefully organized series of short,
concise paragraphs, summarizing the most significant factors that make the offering
speculative or substantially risky. Issuers should avoid generalized statements and
include only factors that are specific to the issuer.
Item 4.

Dilution

Where there is a material disparity between the public offering price and the effective
cash cost to officers, directors, promoters and affiliated persons for shares acquired by
them in a transaction during the past year, or that they have a right to acquire, there must
be included a comparison of the public contribution under the proposed public offering
and the average effective cash contribution of such persons.
Item 5.

Plan of Distribution and Selling Securityholders

(a) If the securities are to be offered through underwriters, give the names of the principal
underwriters, and state the respective amounts underwritten. Identify each such
underwriter having a material relationship to the issuer and state the nature of the
relationship. State briefly the nature of the underwriters’ obligation to take the securities.
Instructions to Item 5(a):
1. All that is required as to the nature of the underwriters' obligation is whether
the underwriters are or will be committed to take and to pay for all of the
securities if any are taken, or whether it is merely an agency or the type of best
efforts arrangement under which the underwriters are required to take and to pay
for only such securities as they may sell to the public. Conditions precedent to the
underwriters' taking the securities, including market outs, need not be described
except in the case of an agency or best efforts arrangement.
2. It is not necessary to disclose each member of a selling group. Disclosure may
be limited to those underwriters who are in privity of contract with the issuer with
respect to the offering.
(b) State briefly the discounts and commissions to be allowed or paid to dealers,
including all cash, securities, contracts or other consideration to be received by any dealer
in connection with the sale of the securities.

400

(c) Outline briefly the plan of distribution of any securities being issued that are to be
offered through the selling efforts of brokers or dealers or otherwise than through
underwriters.
(d) If any of the securities are to be offered for the account of securityholders, identify
each selling securityholder, state the amount owned by the securityholder prior to the
offering, the amount offered for his or her account and the amount to be owned after the
offering. Provide such disclosure in a tabular format. At the bottom of the table, provide
the total number of securities being offered for the account of all securityholders and
describe what percent of the pre-offering outstanding securities of such class the offering
represents.
Instruction to Item 5(d):
The term “securityholder” in this paragraph refers to beneficial holders, not
nominee holders or other such holders of record. If the selling securityholder is
an entity, disclosure of the persons who have sole or shared voting or investment
power must be included.
(e) Describe any arrangements for the return of funds to subscribers if all of the securities
to be offered are not sold. If there are no such arrangements, so state.
(f) If there will be a material delay in the payment of the proceeds of the offering by the
underwriter to the issuer, the salient provisions in this regard and the effects on the issuer
must be stated.
(g) Describe any arrangement to (1) limit or restrict the sale of other securities of the
same class as those to be offered for the period of distribution, (2) stabilize the market for
any of the securities to be offered, or (3) withhold commissions, or otherwise to hold
each underwriter or dealer responsible for the distribution of its participation.
(h) Identify any underwriter that intends to confirm sales to any accounts over which it
exercises discretionary authority and include an estimate of the amount of securities so
intended to be confirmed.
Instruction to Item 5:
Attention is directed to the provisions of Rules 10b-9 [17 CFR 240.10b-9] and
15c2-4 [17 CFR 240.15c2-4] under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These
rules outline, among other things, antifraud provisions concerning the return of
funds to subscribers and the transmission of proceeds of an offering to a seller.
Item 6.

Use of Proceeds to Issuer

State the principal purposes for which the net proceeds to the issuer from the securities to
be offered are intended to be used and the approximate amount intended to be used for
401

each such purpose. If the issuer will not receive any of proceeds from the offering, so
state.
Instructions to Item 6:
1. If any substantial portion of the proceeds has not been allocated for particular
purposes, a statement to that effect must be made together with a statement of the
amount of proceeds not so allocated.
2. State whether or not the proceeds will be used to compensate or otherwise
make payments to officers or directors of the issuer or any of its subsidiaries.
3. For best efforts offerings, describe any anticipated material changes in the use
of proceeds if all of the securities being qualified on the offering statement are not
sold.
4. If an issuer must provide the disclosure described in Item 9(c) the use of
proceeds and plan of operations should be consistent.
5. If any material amounts of other funds are to be used in conjunction with the
proceeds, state the amounts and sources of such other funds and whether such
funds are firm or contingent.
6. If any material part of the proceeds is to be used to discharge indebtedness,
describe the material terms of such indebtedness. If the indebtedness to be
discharged was incurred within one year, describe the use of the proceeds arising
from such indebtedness.
7. If any material amount of the proceeds is to be used to acquire assets,
otherwise than in the ordinary course of business, briefly describe and state the
cost of the assets. If the assets are to be acquired from affiliates of the issuer or
their associates, give the names of the persons from whom they are to be acquired
and set forth the basis used in determining the purchase price to the issuer.
8. The issuer may reserve the right to change the use of proceeds, so long as the
reservation is prominently disclosed in the section where the use of proceeds is
discussed. It is not necessary to describe the possible alternative uses of proceeds
unless the issuer believes that a change in circumstances leading to an alternative
use of proceeds is likely to occur.
Item 7.

Description of Business

(a) Narrative description of business.
(1) Describe the business done and intended to be done by the issuer and its
subsidiaries and the general development of the business during the past three
402

years or such shorter period as the issuer may have been in business. Such
description must include, but not be limited to, a discussion of the following
factors if such factors are material to an understanding of the issuer’s business:
(i) The principal products and services of the issuer and the principal
market for and method of distribution of such products and services.
(ii) The status of a product or service if the issuer has made public
information about a new product or service that would require the
investment of a material amount of the assets of the issuer or is otherwise
material.
(iii) If material, the estimated amount spent during each of the last two
fiscal years on company-sponsored research and development activities
determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
In addition, state, if material, the estimated dollar amount spent during
each of such years on material customer-sponsored research activities
relating to the development of new products, services or techniques or the
improvement of existing products, services or techniques.
(iv) The total number of persons employed by the issuer, indicating the
number employed full time.
(v) Any bankruptcy, receivership or similar proceeding.
(vi) Any legal proceedings material to the business or financial condition
of the issuer.
(vii) Any material reclassification, merger, consolidation, or purchase or
sale of a significant amount of assets not in the ordinary course of
business.
(2) The issuer must also describe those distinctive or special characteristics of the
issuer’s operation or industry that are reasonably likely to have a material impact
upon the issuer’s future financial performance. Examples of factors that might be
discussed include dependence on one or a few major customers or suppliers
(including suppliers of raw materials or financing), effect of existing or probable
governmental regulation (including environmental regulation), material terms of
and/or expiration of material labor contracts or patents, trademarks, licenses,
franchises, concessions or royalty agreements, unusual competitive conditions in
the industry, cyclicality of the industry and anticipated raw material or energy
shortages to the extent management may not be able to secure a continuing source
of supply.

403

(b) Segment Data. If the issuer is required by generally accepted accounting principles to
include segment information in its financial statements, an appropriate cross-reference
must be included in the description of business.
(c) Industry Guides. The disclosure guidelines in all Securities Act Industry Guides must
be followed. To the extent that the industry guides are codified into Regulation S-K, the
Regulation S-K industry disclosure items must be followed.
(d) For offerings of limited partnership or limited liability company interests, an issuer
must comply with the Commission’s interpretive views on substantive disclosure
requirements set forth in Securities Act Release No. 6900 (June 17, 1991).
Item 8.

Description of Property

State briefly the location and general character of any principal plants or other material
physical properties of the issuer and its subsidiaries. If any such property is not held in
fee or is held subject to any major encumbrance, so state and briefly describe how held.
Include information regarding the suitability, adequacy, productive capacity and extent of
utilization of the properties and facilities used in the issuer’s business.
Instruction to Item 8:
Detailed descriptions of the physical characteristics of individual properties or
legal descriptions by metes and bounds are not required and should not be given.
Item 9.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations

Discuss the issuer’s financial condition, changes in financial condition and results of
operations for each year and interim period for which financial statements are required,
including the causes of material changes from year to year or period to period in financial
statement line items, to the extent necessary for an understanding of the issuer’s business
as a whole. Information provided also must relate to the segment information of the
issuer. Provide the information specified below as well as such other information that is
necessary for an investor’s understanding of the issuer’s financial condition, changes in
financial condition and results of operations.
(a) Operating results. Provide information regarding significant factors, including
unusual or infrequent events or transactions or new developments, materially affecting
the issuer’s income from operations, and, in each case, indicating the extent to which
income was so affected. Describe any other significant component of revenue or
expenses necessary to understand the issuer’s results of operations. To the extent that the
financial statements disclose material changes in net sales or revenues, provide a
narrative discussion of the extent to which such changes are attributable to changes in
prices or to changes in the volume or amount of products or services being sold or to the
introduction of new products or services.
404

Instruction to Item 9(a):
1. The discussion and analysis shall focus specifically on material events and
uncertainties known to management that would cause reported financial
information not to be necessarily indicative of future operating results or of future
financial condition. This would include descriptions and amounts of (A) matters
that would have an impact on future operations that have not had an impact in the
past, and (B) matters that have had an impact on reported operations that are not
expected to have an impact upon future operations.
2. Where the consolidated financial statements reveal material changes from
year to year in one or more line items, the causes for the changes shall be
described to the extent necessary to an understanding of the issuer’s businesses as
a whole. If the causes for a change in one line item also relate to other line items,
no repetition is required and a line-by-line analysis of the financial statements as
a whole is not required or generally appropriate. Issuers need not recite the
amounts of changes from year to year which are readily computable from the
financial statements. The discussion must not merely repeat numerical data
contained in the consolidated financial statements.
3. When interim period financial statements are included, discuss any material
changes in financial condition from the end of the preceding fiscal year to the
date of the most recent interim balance sheet provided. Discuss any material
changes in the issuer’s results of operations with respect to the most recent fiscal
year-to-date period for which an income statement is provided and the
corresponding year-to-date period of the preceding fiscal year.
(b) Liquidity and capital resources. Provide information regarding the following:
(1) the issuer’s liquidity (both short and long term), including a description and
evaluation of the internal and external sources of liquidity and a brief discussion
of any material unused sources of liquidity. If a material deficiency in liquidity is
identified, indicate the course of action that the issuer has taken or proposes to
take to remedy the deficiency.
(2) the issuer’s material commitments for capital expenditures as of the end of the
latest fiscal year and any subsequent interim period and an indication of the
general purpose of such commitments and the anticipated sources of funds needed
to fulfill such commitments.
(c) Plan of Operations. Issuers (including predecessors) that have not received revenue
from operations during each of the three fiscal years immediately before the filing of the
offering statement (or since inception, whichever is shorter) must describe, if formulated,
their plan of operation for the 12 months following the commencement of the proposed
offering. If such information is not available, the reasons for its unavailability must be
405

stated. Disclosure relating to any plan must include, among other things, a statement
indicating whether, in the issuer’s opinion, the proceeds from the offering will satisfy its
cash requirements or whether it anticipates it will be necessary to raise additional funds
in the next six months to implement the plan of operations.
(d) Trend information. The issuer must identify the most significant recent trends in
production, sales and inventory, the state of the order book and costs and selling prices
since the latest financial year. The issuer also must discuss, for at least the current
financial year, any known trends, uncertainties, demands, commitments or events that are
reasonably likely to have a material effect on the issuer’s net sales or revenues, income
from continuing operations, profitability, liquidity or capital resources, or that would
cause reported financial information not necessarily to be indicative of future operating
results or financial condition.
Item 10.

Directors, Executive Officers and Significant Employees

(a) For each of the directors, persons nominated or chosen to become directors, executive
officers, persons chosen to become executive officers, and significant employees, provide
the information specified below in substantially the following tabular format:
Name

Position

Age

Term of Office(1)

Approximate hours per
week for part-time
employees(2)

Executive Officers:

Directors:

Significant Employees:

(1) Provide the month and year of the start date and, if applicable, the end date.
To the extent you are unable to provide specific dates, provide such other
description in the table or in an appropriate footnote clarifying the term of office.
If the person is a nominee or chosen to become a director or executive officer, it
must be indicated in this column or by footnote.
(2) For executive officers and significant employees that are working part-time,
indicate approximately the average number of hours per week or month such
person works or is anticipated to work. This column may be left blank for
directors. The entire column may be omitted if all those listed in the table work
full time for the issuer.

406

In a footnote to the table, briefly describe any arrangement or understanding between the
persons described above and any other persons (naming such persons) pursuant to which
the person was or is to be selected to his or her office or position.
Instructions to Item 10(a):
1. No nominee or person chosen to become a director or person chosen to be an
executive officer who has not consented to act as such may be named in response
to this item.
2. The term “executive officer” means the president, secretary, treasurer, any
vice president in charge of a principal business function (such as sales,
administration, or finance) and any other person who performs similar policy
making functions for the issuer.
3. The term “significant employee” means persons such as production managers,
sales managers, or research scientists, who are not executive officers, but who
make or are expected to make significant contributions to the business of the
issuer.
(b) Family relationships. State the nature of any family relationship between any
director, executive officer, person nominated or chosen by the issuer to become a director
or executive officer or any significant employee.
Instruction to Item 10(b):
The term “family relationship” means any relationship by blood, marriage, or
adoption, not more remote than first cousin.
(c) Business experience. Give a brief account of the business experience during the past
five years of each director, executive officer, person nominated or chosen to become a
director or executive officer, and each significant employee, including his or her principal
occupations and employment during that period and the name and principal business of
any corporation or other organization in which such occupations and employment were
carried on. When an executive officer or significant employee has been employed by the
issuer for less than five years, a brief explanation must be included as to the nature of the
responsibilities undertaken by the individual in prior positions to provide adequate
disclosure of this prior business experience. What is required is information relating to
the level of the employee’s professional competence, which may include, depending
upon the circumstances, such specific information as the size of the operation supervised.
(d) Involvement in certain legal proceedings. Describe any of the following events which
occurred during the past five years and which are material to an evaluation of the ability
or integrity of any director, person nominated to become a director or executive officer of
the issuer:

407

(1) A petition under the federal bankruptcy laws or any state insolvency law was
filed by or against, or a receiver, fiscal agent or similar officer was appointed by a
court for the business or property of such person, or any partnership in which he
was general partner at or within two years before the time of such filing, or any
corporation or business association of which he was an executive officer at or
within two years before the time of such filing; or
(2) Such person was convicted in a criminal proceeding (excluding traffic
violations and other minor offenses).
Item 11.

Compensation of Directors and Executive Officers

(a) Provide, in substantially the tabular format indicated, the annual compensation of each
of the three highest paid persons who were executive officers or directors during the
issuer’s last completed fiscal year.
Name

Capacities in which
compensation was received
(e.g., Chief Executive Officer,
director, etc.)

Cash
compensation
($)

Other
Total
compensation compensation
($)
($)

(b) Provide the aggregate annual compensation of the issuer’s directors as a group for the
issuer’s last completed fiscal year. Specify the total number of directors in the group.
(c) For Tier 1 offerings, the annual compensation of the three highest paid persons who
were executive officers or directors and the aggregate annual compensation of the
issuer’s directors may be provided as a group, rather than as specified in paragraphs (a)
and (b) of this item. In such case, issuers must specify the total number of persons in the
group.
(d) Briefly describe all proposed compensation to be made in the future pursuant to any
ongoing plan or arrangement to the individuals specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
item. The description must include a summary of how each plan operates, any
performance formula or measure in effect (or the criteria used to determine payment
amounts), the time periods over which the measurements of benefits will be determined,
payment schedules, and any recent material amendments to the plan. Information need
not be included with respect to any group life, health, hospitalization, or medical
reimbursement plans that do not discriminate in scope, terms or operation in favor of
executive officers or directors of the issuer and that are available generally to all salaried
employees.
Instructions to Item 11:

408

1. In case of compensation paid or to be paid otherwise than in cash, if it is
impracticable to determine the cash value thereof, state in a note to the table the
nature and amount thereof.
2. This item is to be answered on an accrual basis if practicable; if not so
answered, state the basis used.
Item 12.

Security Ownership of Management and Certain Securityholders

(a) Include the information specified in paragraph (b) of this item as of the most recent
practicable date (stating the date used), in substantially the tabular format indicated, with
respect to voting securities beneficially owned by:
(1) all executive officers and directors as a group, individually naming each
director or executive officer who beneficially owns more than 10% of any class of
the issuer’s voting securities;
(2) any other securityholder who beneficially owns more than 10% of any class of
the issuer’s voting securities as such beneficial ownership would be calculated if
the issuer were subject to Rule 13d-3(d)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934.
(b) Beneficial Ownership Table:

Title of
class

Name and address
of beneficial
owner(1)

Amount and nature
of beneficial
ownership

Amount and nature
of beneficial
ownership
acquirable(2)

Percent of
class(3)

(1) The address given in this column may be a business, mailing, or residential
address. The address may be included in an appropriate footnote to the table
rather than in this column.
(2) This column must include the amount of equity securities each beneficial
owner has the right to acquire using the manner specified in Rule 13d-3(d)(1) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. An appropriate footnote must be included if
the column heading does not sufficiently describe the circumstances upon which
such securities could be acquired.
(3) This column must use the amounts contained in the two preceding columns to
calculate the percent of class owned by such beneficial owner.
Item 13.

Interest of Management and Others in Certain Transactions
409

(a) Describe briefly any transactions or any currently proposed transactions during the
issuer’s last two completed fiscal years and the current fiscal year, to which the issuer or
any of its subsidiaries was or is to be a participant and the amount involved exceeds
$50,000 for Tier 1 or the lesser of $120,000 and one percent of the average of the issuer’s
total assets at year end for the last two completed fiscal years for Tier 2, and in which any
of the following persons had or is to have a direct or indirect material interest, naming the
person and stating his or her relationship to the issuer, the nature of the person’s interest
in the transaction and, where practicable, the amount of such interest:
(1) Any director or executive officer of the issuer;
(2) Any nominee for election as a director;
(3) Any securityholder named in answer to Item 12(a)(2);
(4) If the issuer was incorporated or organized within the past three years, any
promoter of the issuer; or
(5) Any immediate family member of the above persons. An “immediate family
member” of a person means such person’s child, stepchild, parent, stepparent,
spouse, sibling, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,
brother-in-law, sister-in-law, or any person (other than a tenant or employee)
sharing such person’s household.
Instructions to Item 13(a):
1. For purposes of calculating the amount of the transaction described above, all
periodic installments in the case of any lease or other agreement providing for
periodic payments must be aggregated to the extent they occurred within the time
period described in this item.
2. No information need be given in answer to this item as to any transaction
where:
(a) The rates of charges involved in the transaction are determined by
competitive bids, or the transaction involves the rendering of services as a
common or contract carrier at rates or charges fixed in conformity with
law or governmental authority;
(b) The transaction involves services as a bank depositary of funds,
transfer agent, registrar, trustee under a trust indenture, or similar
services;
(c) The interest of the specified person arises solely from the ownership of
securities of the issuer and the specified person receives no extra or
410

special benefit not shared on a pro-rata basis by all of the holders of
securities of the class.
3. This item calls for disclosure of indirect as well as direct material interests in
transactions. A person who has a position or relationship with a firm,
corporation, or other entity which engages in a transaction with the issuer or its
subsidiaries may have an indirect interest in such transaction by reason of the
position or relationship. However, a person is deemed not to have a material
indirect interest in a transaction within the meaning of this item where:
(a) the interest arises only (i) from the person’s position as a director of
another corporation or organization (other than a partnership) that is a
party to the transaction, or (ii) from the direct or indirect ownership by
the person and all other persons specified in paragraphs (1) through (5) of
this item, in the aggregate, of less than a 10 percent equity interest in
another person (other than a partnership) that is a party to the
transaction, or (iii) from both such position and ownership;
(b) the interest arises only from the person’s position as a limited partner
in a partnership in which the person and all other persons specified in
paragraphs (1) through (5) of this item had an interest of less than 10
percent; or
(c) the interest of the person arises solely from the holding of an equity
interest (unless the equity interest confers management rights similar to a
general partner interest) or a creditor interest in another person that is a
party to the transaction with the issuer or any of its subsidiaries and the
transaction is not material to the other person.
4. Include the name of each person whose interest in any transaction is described
and the nature of the relationships by reason of which such interest is required to
be described. The amount of the interest of any specified person must be
computed without regard to the amount of the profit or loss involved in the
transaction. Where it is not practicable to state the approximate amount of the
interest, the approximate amount involved in the transaction must be disclosed.
5. Information must be included as to any material underwriting discounts and
commissions upon the sale of securities by the issuer where any of the specified
persons was or is to be a principal underwriter or is a controlling person, or
member, of a firm which was or is to be a principal underwriter. Information
need not be given concerning ordinary management fees paid by underwriters to
a managing underwriter pursuant to an agreement among underwriters, the
parties to which do not include the issuer or its subsidiaries.
6. As to any transaction involving the purchase or sale of assets by or to any
issuer or any subsidiary, otherwise than in the ordinary course of business, state
411

the cost of the assets to the purchaser and, if acquired by the seller within two
years before the transaction, the cost to the seller.
7. Information must be included in answer to this item with respect to
transactions not excluded above which involve compensation from the issuer or
its subsidiaries, directly or indirectly, to any of the specified persons for services
in any capacity unless the interest of such persons arises solely from the
ownership individually and in the aggregate of less than 10 percent of any class
of equity securities of another corporation furnishing the services to the issuer or
its subsidiaries.
(b) If any expert named in the offering statement as having prepared or certified any part
of the offering statement was employed for such purpose on a contingent basis or, at the
time of such preparation or certification or at any time thereafter, had a material interest
in the issuer or any of its parents or subsidiaries or was connected with the issuer or any
of its subsidiaries as a promoter, underwriter, voting trustee, director, officer or
employee, describe the nature of such contingent basis, interest or connection.
Item 14.

Securities Being Offered

(a) If capital stock is being offered, state the title of the class and furnish the following
information regarding all classes of capital stock outstanding:
(1) Outline briefly: (i) dividend rights; (ii) voting rights; (iii) liquidation rights;
(iv) preemptive rights; (v) conversion rights; (vi) redemption provisions; (vii)
sinking fund provisions; (viii) liability to further calls or to assessment by the
issuer; (ix) any classification of the Board of Directors, and the impact of
classification where cumulative voting is permitted or required; (x) restrictions on
alienability of the securities being offered; (xi) any provision discriminating
against any existing or prospective holder of such securities as a result of such
securityholder owning a substantial amount of securities; and (xii) any rights of
holders that may be modified otherwise than by a vote of a majority or more of
the shares outstanding, voting as a class.
(2) Briefly describe potential liabilities imposed on securityholders under state
statutes or foreign law, for example, to employees of the issuer, unless such
disclosure would be immaterial because the financial resources of the issuer or
other factors are such as to make it unlikely that the liability will ever be imposed.
(3) If preferred stock is to be offered or is outstanding, describe briefly any
restriction on the repurchase or redemption of shares by the issuer while there is
any arrearage in the payment of dividends or sinking fund installments. If there is
no such restriction, so state.
(b) If debt securities are being offered, outline briefly the following:

412

(1) Provisions with respect to interest, conversion, maturity, redemption,
amortization, sinking fund or retirement.
(2) Provisions with respect to the kind and priority of any lien securing the issue,
together with a brief identification of the principal properties subject to such lien.
(3) Material affirmative and negative covenants.
Instruction to Item 14(b):
In the case of secured debt there must be stated: (i) the approximate amount of
unbonded property available for use against the issuance of bonds, as of the most
recent practicable date, and (ii) whether the securities being issued are to be
issued against such property, against the deposit of cash, or otherwise.
(c) If securities described are to be offered pursuant to warrants, rights, or convertible
securities, state briefly:
(1) the amount of securities issuable upon the exercise or conversion of such
warrants, convertible securities or rights;
(2) the period during which and the price at which the warrants, convertible
securities or rights are exercisable;
(3) the amounts of warrants, convertible securities or rights outstanding; and
(4) any other material terms of such securities.
(d) In the case of any other kind of securities, include a brief description with comparable
information to that required in (a), (b) and (c) of Item 14.
Part F/S
(a) General Rules
(1) The appropriate financial statements set forth below of the issuer, or the issuer
and its predecessors or any businesses to which the issuer is a successor must be
filed as part of the offering statement and included in the offering circular that is
distributed to investors.
(2) Unless the issuer is a Canadian company, financial statements must be
prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the
United States (US GAAP). If the issuer is a Canadian company, such financial
statements must be prepared in accordance with either US GAAP or International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting
Standards Board (IASB). If the financial statements comply with IFRS, such
413

compliance must be explicitly and unreservedly stated in the notes to the financial
statements and if the financial statements are audited, the auditor’s report must
include an opinion on whether the financial statements comply with IFRS as
issued by the IASB.
(3) The issuer may elect to delay complying with any new or revised financial
accounting standard until the date that a company that is not an issuer (as defined
under section 2(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (15 U.S.C. 7201(a)) is
required to comply with such new or revised accounting standard, if such standard
also applies to companies that are not issuers. Issuers electing such extension of
time accommodation must disclose it at the time the issuer files its offering
statement and apply the election to all standards. Issuers electing not to use this
accommodation must forgo this accommodation for all financial accounting
standards and may not elect to rely on this accommodation in any future filings.
(b) Financial Statements for Tier 1 Offerings
(1) The financial statements prepared pursuant to this paragraph (b), including
(b)(7), need not be prepared in accordance with Regulation S-X.
(2) The financial statements prepared pursuant to paragraph (b), including (b)(7),
need not be audited. If the financial statements are not audited, they shall be
labeled as “unaudited”. However, if an audit of these financial statements is
obtained for other purposes and that audit was performed in accordance with
either U.S. generally accepted auditing standards or the Standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board by an auditor that is independent pursuant
to either the independence standards of the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants (AICPA) or Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X, those audited financial
statements must be filed, and an audit opinion complying with Rule 2-02 of
Regulation S-X must be filed along with such financial statements. The auditor
may, but need not, be registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board.
(3) Consolidated Balance Sheets. Age of balance sheets at filing and at
qualification:
(A) If the filing is made, or the offering statement is qualified, more than
three months but no more than nine months after the most recently
completed fiscal year end, include a balance sheet as of the two most
recently completed fiscal year ends.
(B) If the filing is made, or the offering statement is qualified, more than
nine months after the most recently completed fiscal year end, include a
balance sheet as of the two most recently completed fiscal year ends and
an interim balance sheet as of a date no earlier than six months after the
most recently completed fiscal year end.
414

(C) If the filing is made, or the offering statement is qualified, within three
months after the most recently completed fiscal year end, include a
balance sheet as of the two fiscal year ends preceding the most recently
completed fiscal year end and an interim balance sheet as of a date no
earlier than six months after the date of the most recent fiscal year end
balance sheet that is required.
(D) If the filing is made, or the offering statement is qualified, during the
period from inception until three months after reaching the annual balance
sheet date for the first time, include a balance sheet as of a date within
nine months of filing or qualification.
(4) Statements of comprehensive income, cash flows, and changes in
stockholders’ equity. File consolidated statements of income, cash flows, and
changes in stockholders’ equity for each of the two fiscal years preceding the date
of the most recent balance sheet being filed or such shorter period as the issuer
has been in existence. If a consolidated interim balance sheet is required by (b)(3)
above, consolidated interim statements of income and cash flows shall be
provided and must cover at least the first six months of the issuer’s fiscal year and
the corresponding period of the preceding fiscal year.
(5) Interim financial statements. Interim financial statements may be condensed
as described in Rule 8-03(a) of Regulation S-X. The interim income statements
must be accompanied by a statement that in the opinion of management all
adjustments necessary in order to make the interim financial statements not
misleading have been included.
(6) Oil and Gas Producing Activities. Issuers engaged in oil and gas producing
activities must follow the financial accounting and reporting standards specified
in Rule 4-10 of Regulation S-X.
(7) Financial Statements of Other Entities. The circumstances described below
may require you to file financial statements of other entities in the offering
statement. The financial statements of other entities must be presented for the
same periods as if the other entity was the issuer as described above in paragraphs
(b)(3) and (b)(4) unless a shorter period is specified by the rules below. The
financial statement of other entities shall follow the same audit requirement as
paragraph (b)(2) of this Part F/S.
(i) Financial Statements of Guarantors and Issuers of Guaranteed
Securities. Financial statements of a subsidiary that issues securities
guaranteed by the parent or guarantees securities issued by the parent must
be presented as required by Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X.

415

(ii) Financial Statements of Affiliates Whose Securities Collateralize an
Issuance. Financial statements for an issuer’s affiliates whose securities
constitute a substantial portion of the collateral for any class of securities
being offered must be presented as required by Rule 3-16 of Regulation SX.
(iii) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired or to be Acquired. File
the financial statements required by Rule 8-04 of Regulation S-X.
(iv) Pro Forma Financial Information. If financial statements are
presented under paragraph (b)(7)(iii) above, file pro forma information
showing the effects of the acquisition as described in Rule 8-05 of
Regulation S-X.
(v) Real Estate Operations Acquired or to be Acquired. File the financial
information required by Rule 8-06 of Regulation S-X.
Instructions to paragraph (b) in Part F/S:
1. Issuers should refer to Rule 257(b)(2) to determine whether a special financial
report will be required after qualification of the offering statement.
2. If the last day that the financial statements included in the offering statement
can be accepted, according to the age requirements of this item falls on a
Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, such offering statement may be filed on the first
business day following the last day of the specified period.
3. As an alternative, an issuer may—but need not—elect to comply with the
provisions of paragraph (c).
(c) Financial Statement Requirements for Tier 2 Offerings
(1) In addition to the general rules in paragraph (a), provide the financial
statements required by paragraph (b) of this Part F/S, except the following rules
should be followed in the preparation of the financial statements:
(i) The issuer and, when applicable, other entities for which financial
statements are required, must comply with Article 8 of Regulation S-X, as
if it was conducting a registered offering on Form S-1, except the age of
interim financial statements may follow paragraphs (b)(3)-(4) of this Part
F/S.
(ii) Audited financial statements are required for Tier 2 offerings for the
issuer and, when applicable, for financial statements of other entities.
However, interim financial statements may be unaudited.

416

(iii) The audit must be conducted in accordance with either U.S. Generally
Accepted Auditing Standards or the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States) and the report and
qualifications of the independent accountant shall comply with the
requirements of Article 2 of Regulation S-X. Accounting firms
conducting audits for the financial statements included in the offering
circular may, but need not, be registered with the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board.
PART III—EXHIBITS
Item 16.

Index to Exhibits

(a) An exhibits index must be presented at the beginning of Part III.
(b) Each exhibit must be listed in the exhibit index according to the number assigned to it
under Item 17 below.
(c) For incorporation by reference, please refer to General Instruction III of this Form.
Item 17.

Description of Exhibits

As appropriate, the following documents must be filed as exhibits to the offering
statement.
1. Underwriting agreement—Each underwriting contract or agreement with a principal
underwriter or letter pursuant to which the securities are to be distributed; where the
terms have yet to be finalized, proposed formats may be provided.
2. Charter and bylaws—The charter and bylaws of the issuer or instruments
corresponding thereto as currently in effect and any amendments thereto.
3. Instruments defining the rights of securityholders—
(a) All instruments defining the rights of any holder of the issuer’s securities,
including but not limited to (i) holders of equity or debt securities being issued;
(ii) holders of long-term debt of the issuer, and of all subsidiaries for which
consolidated or unconsolidated financial statements are required to be filed.
(b) The following instruments need not be filed if the issuer agrees to file them
with the Commission upon request: (i) instruments defining the rights of holders
of long-term debt of the issuer and all of its subsidiaries for which consolidated
financial statements are required to be filed if such debt is not being issued
pursuant to this Regulation A offering and the total amount of such authorized
issuance does not exceed 5% of the total assets of the issuer and its subsidiaries
on a consolidated basis; (ii) any instrument with respect to a class of securities
417

that is to be retired or redeemed before the issuance or upon delivery of the
securities being issued pursuant to this Regulation A offering and appropriate
steps have been taken to assure such retirement or redemption; and (iii) copies of
instruments evidencing scrip certificates or fractions of shares.
4. Subscription agreement—The form of any subscription agreement to be used in
connection with the purchase of securities in this offering.
5. Voting trust agreement—Any voting trust agreements and amendments.
6. Material contracts
(a) Every contract not made in the ordinary course of business that is material to
the issuer and is to be performed in whole or in part at or after the filing of the
offering statement or was entered into not more than two years before such filing.
Only contracts need be filed as to which the issuer or subsidiary of the issuer is a
party or has succeeded to a party by assumption or assignment or in which the
issuer or such subsidiary has a beneficial interest. Schedules (or similar
attachments) to material contracts may be excluded if not material to an
investment decision or if the material information contained in such schedules is
otherwise disclosed in the agreement or the offering statement. The material
contract filed must contain a list briefly identifying the contents of all omitted
schedules, together with an agreement to furnish supplementally a copy of any
omitted schedule to the Commission upon request.
(b) If the contract is such as ordinarily accompanies the kind of business
conducted by the issuer and its subsidiaries, it is made in the ordinary course of
business and need not be filed unless it falls within one or more of the following
categories, in which case it must be filed except where immaterial in amount or
significance: (i) any contract to which directors, officers, promoters, voting
trustees, securityholders named in the offering statement, or underwriters are
parties, except where the contract merely involves the purchase or sale of current
assets having a determinable market price, at such market price; (ii) any contract
upon which the issuer’s business is substantially dependent, as in the case of
continuing contracts to sell the major part of the issuer’s products or services or to
purchase the major part of the issuer’s requirements of goods, services or raw
materials or any franchise or license or other agreement to use a patent, formula,
trade secret, process or trade name upon which the issuer’s business depends to a
material extent; (iii) any contract calling for the acquisition or sale of any
property, plant or equipment for a consideration exceeding 15% of such fixed
assets of the issuer on a consolidated basis; or (iv) any material lease under which
a part of the property described in the offering statement is held by the issuer.
(c) Any management contract or any compensatory plan, contract or arrangement
including, but not limited to, plans relating to options, warrants or rights, pension,
retirement or deferred compensation or bonus, incentive or profit sharing (or if
418

not set forth in any formal document, a written description) is deemed material
and must be filed except for the following: (i) ordinary purchase and sales agency
agreements; (ii) agreements with managers of stores in a chain organization or
similar organization; (iii) contracts providing for labor or salesperson’s bonuses or
payments to a class of securityholders, as such; (iv) any compensatory plan,
contract or arrangement that pursuant to its terms is available to employees
generally and that in operation provides for the same method of allocation of
benefits between management and non-management participants.
7. Plan of acquisition, reorganization, arrangement, liquidation, or succession—Any
material plan of acquisition, disposition, reorganization, readjustment, succession,
liquidation or arrangement and any amendments thereto described in the offering
statement. Schedules (or similar attachments) to these exhibits must not be filed unless
such schedules contain information that is material to an investment decision and that is
not otherwise disclosed in the agreement or the offering statement. The plan filed must
contain a list briefly identifying the contents of all omitted schedules, together with an
agreement to furnish supplementally a copy of any omitted schedule to the Commission
upon request.
8. Escrow agreements—Any escrow agreement or similar arrangement which has been
executed in connection with the Regulation A offering.
9. Letter re change in certifying accountant—A letter from the issuer’s former
independent accountant regarding its concurrence or disagreement with the statements
made by the issuer in the current report concerning the resignation or dismissal as the
issuer’s principal accountant.
10. Power of attorney—If any name is signed to the offering statement pursuant to a
power of attorney, signed copies of the power of attorney must be filed. Where the
power of attorney is contained elsewhere in the offering statement or documents filed
therewith, a reference must be made in the index to the part of the offering statement or
document containing such power of attorney. In addition, if the name of any officer
signing on behalf of the issuer is signed pursuant to a power of attorney, certified copies
of a resolution of the issuer’s board of directors authorizing such signature must also be
filed. A power of attorney that is filed with the Commission must relate to a specific
filing or an amendment thereto. A power of attorney that confers general authority may
not be filed with the Commission.
11. Consents—
(a) Experts: The written consent of (i) any accountant, counsel, engineer,
geologist, appraiser or any persons whose profession gives authority to a
statement made by them and who is named in the offering statement as having
prepared or certified any part of the document or is named as having prepared or
certified a report or evaluation whether or not for use in connection with the
offering statement; (ii) the expert that authored any portion of a report quoted or
419

summarized as such in the offering statement, expressly stating their consent to
the use of such quotation or summary; (iii) any persons who are referenced as
having reviewed or passed upon any information in the offering statement, and
that such information is being included on the basis of their authority or in
reliance upon their status as experts.
(b) All written consents must be dated and signed.
12. Opinion re legality—An opinion of counsel as to the legality of the securities
covered by the Offering Statement, indicating whether they will when sold, be legally
issued, fully paid and non-assessable, and if debt securities, whether they will be binding
obligations of the issuer.
13. “Testing the waters” materials—Any written communication or broadcast script
used under the authorization of Rule 255. Such materials need not be filed if they are
substantively the same as materials previously filed with the offering statement.
14. Appointment of agent for service of process—A Canadian issuer must file Form F-X.
15. Additional exhibits—
(a) Any non-public, draft offering statement previously submitted pursuant to
Rule 252(d) and any related, non-public correspondence submitted by or on
behalf of the issuer.
(b) Any additional exhibits which the issuer may wish to file, which must be so
marked as to indicate clearly the subject matters to which they refer.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation A, the issuer certifies that it has
reasonable grounds to believe that it meets all of the requirements for filing on Form 1-A
and has duly caused this offering statement to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized, in the City of
, State of
, on
(date).
(Exact name of issuer as specified in its charter)
By (Signature and Title)
This offering statement has been signed by the following persons in the capacities
and on the dates indicated.
(Signature)
(Title)
420

(Date)
Instructions to Signatures:
1. The offering statement must be signed by the issuer, its principal executive
officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer, and a majority of
the members of its board of directors or other governing body. If a signature is
by a person on behalf of any other person, evidence of authority to sign must be
filed with the offering statement, except where an executive officer signs on behalf
of the issuer.
2. The offering statement must be signed using a typed signature. Each signatory
to the filing must also manually sign a signature page or other document
authenticating, acknowledging or otherwise adopting his or her signature that
appears in the filing. Such document must be executed before or at the time the
filing is made and must be retained by the issuer for a period of five years. Upon
request, the issuer must furnish to the Commission or its staff a copy of any or all
documents retained pursuant to this section.
3. The name and title of each person signing the offering statement must be typed
or printed beneath the signature.
Note: The text of Form 1-A will not appear in the Code of Federal Regulations.
11.

Revise § 239.91 to read as follows:

§ 239.91

Form 1-K.

This form shall be used for filing annual reports under Regulation A (§§ 230.251230.263 of this chapter).
12.

Add Form 1-K (referenced in § 239.91) to read as follows:
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 1-K
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
A. Rules as to Use of Form 1-K.
(1) This Form shall be used for annual reports pursuant to Rule 257(b)(1) of Regulation A
(§§ 230.251-230.263).
421

(2) Annual reports on this Form shall be filed within 120 calendar days after the end of
the fiscal year covered by the report.
(3) This Form also shall be used for special financial reports filed pursuant to
Rule 257(b)(2)(i)(A) of Regulation A. Such special financial reports shall be filed and
signed in the manner set forth in this Form, but otherwise need only provide Part I and the
financial statements required by Rule 257(b)(2)(i)(A). Special financial reports filed
using this Form shall be filed within 120 calendar days after the qualification date of the
offering statement.
B. Preparation of Report.
(1) Regulation A contains certain general requirements that are applicable to reports on
any form, including amendments to reports. These general requirements should be
carefully read and observed in the preparation and filing of reports on this Form.
(2) This Form is not to be used as a blank form to be filled in, but only as a guide in the
preparation of the report.
(3) Except where information is required to be given for the fiscal year or as of a
specified date, it shall be given as of the latest date reasonably practicable.
(4) References in this Form to the items in Form 1-A are to the items set forth in Part II
and Part III of Form 1-A, not Part I.
(5) In addition to the information expressly required to be included in this Form, there
shall be added such further material information, if any, as may be necessary to make the
required statements, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not
misleading.
C. Signature and Filing of Report.
(1) The report must be filed with the Commission in electronic format by means of the
Commission’s Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System (“EDGAR”) in
accordance with the EDGAR rules set forth in Regulation S-T (17 CFR Part 232).
(2) The report must be signed by the issuer, its principal executive officer, principal
financial officer, principal accounting officer, and at least a majority of the members of
its board of directors or other governing body. If a signature is by a person on behalf of
any other person, evidence of authority to sign must be filed with the report, except where
an executive officer signs on behalf of the issuer.
(3) The report must be signed using a typed signature. Each signatory to the filing must
also manually sign a signature page or other document authenticating, acknowledging or
otherwise adopting his or her signature that appears in the filing. Such document must be
422

executed before or at the time the filing is made and must be retained by the issuer for a
period of five years. Upon request, the issuer must furnish to the Commission or its staff
a copy of any or all documents retained pursuant to this paragraph.
D. Incorporation by Reference and Cross-Referencing.
(1) An issuer may incorporate by reference to other documents previously submitted or
filed on EDGAR. Cross-referencing within the report is also encouraged to avoid
repetition of information. For example, you may respond to an item of this Form by
providing a cross-reference to the location of the information in the financial statements,
instead of repeating such information. Descriptions of where the information
incorporated by reference or cross-referenced can be found must be specific and must
clearly identify the relevant document and portion thereof where such information can be
found. For exhibits incorporated by reference, this description must be noted in the
exhibits index for each relevant exhibit. All descriptions of where information
incorporated by reference can be found must be accompanied by a separate hyperlink to
the incorporated document on EDGAR. A hyperlink need not remain active after the
filing of the report, except that amendments to the report must update any hyperlinks
referred to in the amendment that are inactive.
(2) Reference may not be made to any document if the portion of such document
containing the pertinent information includes an incorporation by reference to another
document. Incorporation by reference to documents not available on EDGAR is not
permitted. Information shall not be incorporated by reference or cross-referenced in any
case where such incorporation would render the statement or report incomplete, unclear,
or confusing. Incorporating information into the financial statements from elsewhere is
not permitted.
(3) If any substantive modification has occurred in the text of any document incorporated
by reference since such document was filed, the issuer must file with the reference a
statement containing the text and date of such modification.
PART I
NOTIFICATION
The following information must be provided in the XML-based portion of
Form 1-K available through the EDGAR portal and must be completed or updated before
uploading each offering statement or amendment thereto. The format of Part I shown
below may differ from the electronic version available on EDGAR. The electronic
version of Part I will allow issuers to attach Part II for filing by means of EDGAR. All
items must be addressed, unless otherwise indicated.
* * * * * *
This Form 1-K is to provide an
fiscal year ended

Annual Report OR

423

Special Financial Report for the

Exact name of issuer as specified in the issuer’s charter:
Jurisdiction of incorporation/organization:
I.R.S. Employer Identification Number:
Address of Principal Executive Offices:

Phone: ( )
Title of each class of securities issued pursuant to Regulation A:
Summary Information Regarding Prior Offerings and Proceeds
The following information must be provided for any Regulation A offering that has
terminated or completed prior to the filing of this Form 1-K, unless such information has
been previously reported in a manner permissible under Rule 257. If such information
has been previously reported, check this box and leave the rest of Part I blank.
Commission File Number of the offering statement:
Date of qualification of the offering statement:
Date of commencement of the offering:
Amount of securities qualified to be sold in the offering:
Amount of securities sold in the offering:
Price per security: $
The portion of aggregate sales attributable to securities sold on behalf of the issuer:
$
The portion of aggregate sales attributable to securities sold on behalf of selling
securityholders:
$
Fees in connection with this offering and names of service providers:
Name of Service Provider
Underwriters:
Sales Commissions:
424

Fees
$
$

Finders’ Fees:
Audit:
Legal:
Promoters:
Blue Sky Compliance:

$
$
$
$
$

CRD Number of any broker or dealer listed:
Net proceeds to the issuer: $
Clarification of responses (if necessary):
PART II
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN REPORT
Item 1.

Business

Set forth the information required by Item 7 of Form 1-A.
Item 2.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations

Set forth the information required by Item 9(a), (b) and (d) of Form 1-A for the most
recent two completed fiscal years.
Item 3.

Directors and Officers

Set forth the information required by Items 10 and 11 of Form 1-A.
Item 4.

Security Ownership of Management and Certain Securityholders

Set forth the information required by Item 12 of Form 1-A.
Item 5.

Interest of Management and Others in Certain Transactions

Set forth the information required by Item 13 of Form 1-A.
Item 6.

Other Information

Set forth any information required to be disclosed in a report on Form 1-U during the last
six months of the fiscal year covered by this Form 1-K, but not reported, whether or not
otherwise required by this Form 1-K. If disclosure of such information is made under
this item, it need not be repeated in a report on Form 1-U that would otherwise be
required to be filed with respect to such information or in a subsequent report on
Form 1-U.

425

Item 7.

Financial Statements

(a) The appropriate audited financial statements set forth below of the issuer, or the issuer
and its predecessors or any businesses to which the issuer is a successor must be filed as
part of the Form 1-K.
(b) Unless the issuer is a Canadian company, financial statements must be prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (US
GAAP). If the issuer is a Canadian company, such financial statements must be prepared
in accordance with either US GAAP or International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). If the
financial statements comply with IFRS, such compliance must be explicitly and
unreservedly stated in the notes to the financial statements and the auditor’s report must
include an opinion on whether the financial statements comply with IFRS as issued by
the IASB.
(c) The audit of the financial statements must be conducted in accordance with either
U.S. Generally Accepted Auditing Standards or the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States) and the report and qualifications of the
independent accountant shall comply with the requirements of Article 2 of Regulation SX. Accounting firms conducting audits for the financial statements may, but need not, be
registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
(d) Balance Sheet. There shall be filed an audited consolidated balance sheet as of the
end of each of the most recent two fiscal years.
(e) Statements of income, cash flows, and changes in stockholders’ equity. File audited
consolidated statements of income, cash flows, and changes in stockholders’ equity for
each of the two fiscal years preceding the date of the most recent balance sheet being
filed or such shorter period as the issuer has been in existence.
(f) Oil and Gas Producing Activities. Issuers engaged in oil and gas producing activities
must follow the financial accounting and reporting standards specified in Rule 4-10 of
Regulation S-X.
(g) Financial Statements of Other Entities. The circumstances described below may
require you to file financial statements of other entities. The financial statements of other
entities must be presented for the same periods as the issuer’s financial statements
described above in paragraphs (d) and (e) unless a shorter period is specified by the rules
below.
(1) Financial Statements of Guarantors and Issuers of Guaranteed Securities.
Financial statements of a subsidiary that issues securities guaranteed by the parent
or guarantees securities issued by the parent must be presented as required by
Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X.

426

(2) Financial Statements of Affiliates Whose Securities Collateralize an Issuance.
Financial statements for an issuer’s affiliates whose securities constitute a
substantial portion of the collateral for any class of securities being offered must
be presented as required by Rule 3-16 of Regulation S-X.
Item 8.

Exhibits

(a) An exhibits index must be presented immediately preceding the first signature page of
the report.
(b) File, as exhibits to this Form, the exhibits required by Form 1-A, except for the
exhibits required by paragraphs 1, 12, and 13 of Item 17.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation A, the issuer has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
(Exact name of issuer as specified in its charter)

By (Signature and Title)
Date
Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation A, this report has been signed below
by the following persons on behalf of the issuer and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.
By (Signature and Title)
Date
By (Signature and Title)
Date

Note: The text of Form 1-K will not appear in the Code of Federal Regulations.
13.

Add § 239.92 to read as follows:

§ 239.92

Form 1-SA.

This form shall be used for filing semiannual reports under Regulation A

427

(§§ 230.251-230.263 of this chapter).
14.

Add Form 1-SA (referenced in § 239.92) to read as follows:
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 1-SA
[ ] SEMIANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO REGULATION A
or
[ ] SPECIAL FINANCIAL REPORT PURSUANT TO REGULATION A
For the fiscal semiannual period ended

(Exact name of issuer as specified in its charter)

State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization

(I.R.S. Employer
Identification No.)

(Full mailing address of principal executive offices)

(Issuer’s telephone number, including area code)
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
A. Rules as to Use of Form 1-SA.
(1) This Form shall be used for semiannual reports pursuant to Rule 257(b)(3) of
Regulation A (§§ 230.251-230.263).
(2) Semiannual reports on this Form shall be filed within 90 calendar days after the end of
the semiannual period covered by the report.
(3) This Form also shall be used for special financial reports filed pursuant to Rule
257(b)(2)(i)(B) of Regulation A. Such special financial reports shall be filed and signed
in the manner set forth in this Form, but otherwise need only provide the cover page and
financial statements required by Rule 257(b)(2)(i)(B). Special financial reports filed
using this Form shall be filed within 90 calendar days after the qualification date of the
offering statement.
B. Preparation of Report.
428

(1) Regulation A contains certain general requirements that are applicable to reports on
any form, including amendments to reports. These general requirements should be
carefully read and observed in the preparation and filing of reports on this Form.
(2) This Form is not to be used as a blank form to be filled in, but only as a guide in the
preparation of the report.
(3) In addition to the information expressly required to be included in this Form, there
shall be added such further material information, if any, as may be necessary to make the
required statements, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not
misleading.
C. Signature and Filing of Report.
(1) The report must be filed with the Commission in electronic format by means of the
Commission’s Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System (“EDGAR”) in
accordance with the EDGAR rules set forth in Regulation S-T (17 CFR Part 232).
(2) The report must be signed by the issuer, its principal executive officer, principal
financial officer and principal accounting officer. If a signature is by a person on behalf
of any other person, evidence of authority to sign must be filed with the report, except
where an executive officer signs on behalf of the issuer.
(3) The report must be signed using a typed signature. Each signatory to the filing must
also manually sign a signature page or other document authenticating, acknowledging or
otherwise adopting his or her signature that appears in the filing. Such document must be
executed before or at the time the filing is made and must be retained by the issuer for a
period of five years. Upon request, the issuer must furnish to the Commission or its staff
a copy of any or all documents retained pursuant to this paragraph.
D. Incorporation by Reference and Cross-Referencing.
(1) An issuer may incorporate by reference to other documents previously submitted or
filed on EDGAR. Cross-referencing within the report is also encouraged to avoid
repetition of information. For example, you may respond to an item of this Form by
providing a cross-reference to the location of the information in the financial statements,
instead of repeating such information. Descriptions of where the information
incorporated by reference or cross-referenced can be found must be specific and must
clearly identify the relevant document and portion thereof where such information can be
found. For exhibits incorporated by reference, this description must be noted in the
exhibits index for each relevant exhibit. All such descriptions of where information
incorporated by reference can be found must be accompanied by a separate hyperlink to
the incorporated document on EDGAR. A hyperlink need not remain active after the
filing of the report, except that amendments to the report must update any hyperlinks
referred to in the amendment that are inactive.
429

(2) Reference may not be made to any document if the portion of such document
containing the pertinent information includes an incorporation by reference to another
document. Incorporation by reference to documents not available on EDGAR is not
permitted. Information shall not be incorporated by reference or cross-referenced in any
case where such incorporation would render the statement or report incomplete, unclear,
or confusing. Incorporating information into the financial statements from elsewhere is
not permitted.
(3) If any substantive modification has occurred in the text of any document incorporated
by reference since such document was filed, the issuer must file with the reference a
statement containing the text and date of such modification.
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN REPORT
Item 1.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations

Set forth the information required by Item 9(a), (b), and (d) of Form 1-A for the interim
period for which financial statements are required by Item 3 below.
Item 2.

Other Information

Set forth any information required to be disclosed in a report on Form 1-U during the
semiannual period covered by this Form 1-SA, but not reported, whether or not otherwise
required by this Form 1-SA. If disclosure of such information is made under this item, it
need not be repeated in a report on Form 1-U that would otherwise be required to be filed
with respect to such information or in a subsequent report on Form 1-U.
Item 3.

Financial Statements

The appropriate financial statements set forth below of the issuer, or the issuer and its
predecessors or any businesses to which the issuer is a successor must be filed as part of
the Form 1-SA.
Unless the issuer is a Canadian company, financial statements must be prepared on a
consolidated basis in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the
United States (US GAAP). If the issuer is a Canadian company, such financial
statements must be prepared in accordance with either US GAAP or International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting
Standards Board (IASB). If the financial statements comply with IFRS as issued by the
IASB, such compliance must be explicitly and unreservedly stated in the notes to the
financial statements.
The financial statements included pursuant to this item may be condensed, unaudited, and
are not required to be reviewed. For additional guidance on presentation of the financial
430

statements refer to Rule 8-03(a) of Regulation S-X. The financial statements must
include the following:
(a) An interim consolidated balance sheet as of the end of the six month period covered
by this report and a balance sheet as of the end of the preceding fiscal year. An interim
balance sheet as of the end of the corresponding six month interim period of the
preceding fiscal year need not be provided unless necessary for an understanding of the
impact of seasonal fluctuations on the issuer’s financial condition.
(b) Interim consolidated statements of income must be provided for the six month interim
period covered by this report and for the corresponding period of the preceding fiscal
year. Income statements must be accompanied by a statement that in the opinion
of management all adjustments necessary in order to make the interim financial
statements not misleading have been included.
(c) Interim statements of cash flows must be provided for the six month interim period
covered by this report and for the corresponding period of the preceding fiscal year.
(d) Footnote and other disclosures should be provided as needed for fair presentation and
to ensure that the financial statements are not misleading. Refer to Rule 8-03(b) of
Regulation S-X for examples of disclosures that may be needed.
(e) Financial Statements of Guarantors and Issuers of Guaranteed Securities. Financial
statements of a subsidiary that issues securities guaranteed by the parent or guarantees
securities issued by the parent must be presented as required by Rule 3-10 of Regulation
S-X, except that the periods presented are those required by this item and the financial
statements need not be audited.
Item 4.

Exhibits

(a) An exhibits index must be presented immediately preceding the first signature page of
the report.
(b) File, as exhibits to this Form, the exhibits required by Form 1-A, except for the
exhibits required by paragraphs 1, 12, and 13 of Item 17.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation A, the issuer has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
(Exact name of issuer as specified in its charter)
By (Signature and Title)
Date
431

Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation A, this report has been signed below
by the following persons on behalf of the issuer and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.
By (Signature and Title)
Date
By (Signature and Title)
Date

Note: The text of Form 1-SA will not appear in the Code of Federal Regulations.

15.

Add § 239.93 to read as follows:

§ 239.93

Form 1-U.

This form shall be used for filing current reports under Regulation A (§§ 230.251230.263 of this chapter).
16.

Add Form 1-U (referenced in § 239.92) to read as follows:
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 1-U
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO REGULATION A
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)

(Exact name of issuer as specified in its charter)

State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization

(I.R.S. Employer
Identification No.)

432

(Full mailing address of principal executive offices)

(Issuer’s telephone number, including area code)

Title of each class of securities issued pursuant to Regulation A:
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
A. Rules as to Use of Form 1-U.
(1) This Form shall be used for current reports pursuant to Rule 257(b)(4) of
Regulation A (§§ 230.251-230.263).
(2) A report on this Form is required to be filed, as applicable, upon the occurrence of any
one or more of the events specified in Items 1 – 9 of this Form. Unless otherwise
specified, a report is to be filed within four business days after occurrence of the event. If
the event occurs on a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday on which the Commission is not open
for business, then the four business day period shall begin to run on, and include, the first
business day thereafter.
(3) If the issuer previously has provided substantially the same information as required by
this Form in a report required by Rule 257(b) of Regulation A, the issuer need not make
an additional report of the information on this Form. To the extent that an item calls for
disclosure of developments concerning a previously reported event or transaction, any
information required in the new report or amendment about the previously reported event
or transaction may be provided by incorporation by reference to the previously filed
report, if a hyperlink to such report as filed with the Commission is included.
(4) Copies of agreements, amendments or other documents or instruments are not
required to be filed as exhibits to the Form 1-U unless specifically required by the
applicable item. This instruction does not affect the requirement to otherwise file such
agreements, amendments or other documents or instruments, including as exhibits to
offering statements and periodic reports pursuant to the requirements of Regulation A.
B. Preparation of Report.
(1) Regulation A contains certain general requirements which are applicable to reports on
any form, including amendments to reports. These general requirements should be
carefully read and observed in the preparation and filing of reports on this Form.
(2) This Form is not to be used as a blank form to be filled in, but only as a guide in the
preparation of the report. Nevertheless, the report shall contain the number and caption
of each applicable item, but the text of such item may be omitted. All items that are not
433

required to be answered in a particular report may be omitted and no reference thereto
need be made in the report. All instructions should also be omitted.
(3) In addition to the information expressly required to be included in this Form, there
shall be added such further material information, if any, as may be necessary to make the
required statements, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not
misleading.
C. Signature and Filing of Report.
(1) The report must be filed with the Commission in electronic format by means of the
Commission’s Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System (“EDGAR”) in
accordance with the EDGAR rules set forth in Regulation S-T (17 CFR Part 232).
(2) The report must be signed by an officer duly authorized to sign on behalf of the issuer.
The report must be signed using a typed signature. The signatory to the filing must also
manually sign a signature page or other document authenticating, acknowledging or
otherwise adopting his or her signature that appears in the filing. Such document must be
executed before or at the time the filing is made and must be retained by the issuer for a
period of five years. Upon request, the issuer must furnish to the Commission or its staff
a copy of any or all documents retained pursuant to this paragraph.
D. Incorporation by Reference and Cross-Referencing.
(1) An issuer may incorporate by reference to other documents previously submitted or
filed on EDGAR. Cross-referencing within the report is also encouraged to avoid
repetition of information. For example, you may respond to an item of this Form by
providing a cross-reference to the location of the information in another item, instead of
repeating such information. Descriptions of where the information incorporated by
reference or cross-referenced can be found must be specific and must clearly identify the
relevant document and portion thereof where such information can be found. For
exhibits incorporated by reference, this description must be noted in the exhibits index for
each relevant exhibit. All such descriptions of where information incorporated by
reference can be found must be accompanied by a separate hyperlink to the incorporated
document on EDGAR. A hyperlink need not remain active after the filing of the report,
except that amendments to the report must update any hyperlinks referred to in the
amendment that are inactive.
(2) Reference may not be made to any document if the portion of such document
containing the pertinent information includes an incorporation by reference to another
document. Incorporation by reference to documents not available on EDGAR is not
permitted. Information shall not be incorporated by reference or cross-referenced in any
case where such incorporation would render the statement or report incomplete, unclear,
or confusing. Incorporating information into any financial statements from elsewhere is
not permitted.

434

(3) If any substantive modification has occurred in the text of any document incorporated
by reference since such document was filed, the issuer must file with the reference a
statement containing the text and date of such modification.
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN THE REPORT
Item 1.

Fundamental Changes

(a) If the issuer has entered into or terminated a material definitive agreement that has
resulted in or would reasonably be expected to result in a fundamental change to the
nature of its business or plan of operations, disclose the following information to the
extent applicable:
(1) the date on which the agreement was entered into, amended, or terminated, the
identity of the parties to the agreement or amendment, and a brief description of
any material relationship between the issuer or its affiliates and any of the parties
(other than the relationship created by the material definitive agreement or
amendment);
(2) a brief description of the material terms and conditions of the agreement;
(3) a brief description of the material circumstances surrounding the termination;
and
(4) any material early termination penalties incurred by the issuer due to a
termination.
(b) For purposes of this item, a material definitive agreement means an agreement that
provides for obligations that are material to and enforceable against the issuer, or rights
that are material to the issuer and enforceable by the issuer against one or more other
parties to the agreement, in each case whether or not subject to conditions.
(c) File any material definitive agreement disclosed pursuant to this item as an exhibit to
the report on this Form.
Instructions to Item 1:
1. A material definitive agreement that is not made in the ordinary course of
business is not necessarily required to be disclosed under this item if it does not
result in, and would not reasonably be expected to result in, a fundamental
change to the nature of the issuer’s business or plan of operations.
2. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing and solely for the purposes of
this Item 1, a material definitive agreement is deemed to result in a fundamental
change if it involves any of the following:

435

a. An acquisition transaction for which the purchase price, as defined by
U.S. GAAP or IFRS, exceeds fifty-percent of the total consolidated assets
of the issuer as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal year. If the
acquirer transferred assets to the acquiree than the carrying value of
those assets should be excluded from the purchase price;
b. A merger, consolidation, acquisition or similar transaction that
requires approval by the issuer’s securityholders; or
c. Any contract upon which the issuer’s business is substantially
dependent, as in the case of continuing contracts to sell the major part of
the issuer’s products or services or to purchase the major part of the
issuer’s requirements of goods, services or raw materials or any franchise
or license or other agreement to use a patent, formula, trade secret,
process or trade name upon which the issuer’s business is substantially
dependent.
3. An issuer must provide disclosure under this item if the issuer succeeds as a
party to the agreement or amendment to the agreement by assumption or
assignment (other than in connection with a merger or acquisition or similar
transaction that is otherwise reported pursuant to this item).
4. No disclosure under this item is required regarding the termination of a
material definitive agreement if:
a. The agreement terminated on its stated termination date, or as a result
of all parties completing their obligations under such agreement.
b. Only negotiations or discussions regarding termination of a material
definitive agreement are being conducted and the agreement has not been
terminated.
c. The issuer believes in good faith that the material definitive agreement
has not been terminated, unless the issuer has received a notice of
termination pursuant to the terms of agreement.
Item 2.

Bankruptcy or Receivership

(a) If a receiver, fiscal agent or similar officer has been appointed for an issuer or its
parent, in a proceeding under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or in any other proceeding under
state, federal, or Canadian laws, in which a court or governmental authority has assumed
jurisdiction over substantially all of the assets or business of the issuer or its parent, or if
such jurisdiction has been assumed by leaving the existing directors and officers in
possession but subject to the supervision and orders of a court or governmental authority,
disclose the following information:

436

(1) the name or other identification of the proceeding;
(2) the identity of the court or governmental authority;
(3) the date that jurisdiction was assumed; and
(4) the identity of the receiver, fiscal agent or similar officer and the date of his or
her appointment.
(b) If an order confirming a plan of reorganization, arrangement or liquidation has been
entered by a court or governmental authority having supervision or jurisdiction over
substantially all of the assets or business of the issuer or its parent, disclose the following:
(1) the identity of the court or governmental authority;
(2) the date that the order confirming the plan was entered by the court or
governmental authority;
(3) a summary of the material features of the plan;
(4) the number of shares or other units of the issuer or its parent issued and
outstanding, the number reserved for future issuance in respect of claims and
interests filed and allowed under the plan, and the aggregate total of such
numbers; and
(5) information as to the assets and liabilities of the issuer or its parent as of the
date that the order confirming the plan was entered, or a date as close thereto as
practicable.
Instruction to Item 2:
The information called for in paragraph (b)(5) of this item may be presented in
the form in which it was furnished to the court or governmental authority.
Item 3.

Material Modification to Rights of Securityholders

(a) If the constituent instruments defining the rights of the holders of any class of
securities of the issuer that were issued pursuant to Regulation A have been materially
modified, disclose the date of the modification, the title of the class of securities involved
and briefly describe the general effect of such modification upon the rights of holders of
such securities.
(b) If the rights or benefits evidenced by any class of securities issued pursuant to
Regulation A have been materially limited or qualified by the issuance or modification of
any other class of securities by the issuer, briefly disclose the date of the issuance or
modification, the general effect of the issuance or modification of such other class of
437

securities upon the rights or benefits of the holders of the securities issued pursuant to
Regulation A.
Instruction to Item 3:
Working capital restrictions and other limitations upon the payment of dividends
must be reported pursuant to this item.
Item 4.

Changes in Issuer’s Certifying Accountant

(a) If an independent accountant who was previously engaged as the principal accountant
to audit the issuer’s financial statements, or an independent accountant upon whom the
principal accountant expressed reliance in its report regarding a significant subsidiary,
resigns (or indicates that it declines to stand for re-appointment after completion of the
current audit) or is dismissed, disclose the information that would be required under
Item 304(a)(1) of Regulation S-K (17 CFR 229.304(a)(1)), including compliance with
Item 304(a)(3) of Regulation S-K (17 CFR 229.304(a)(3)) if the issuer were a
“registrant.”
(b) If a new independent accountant has been engaged as either the principal accountant
to audit the issuer’s financial statements or as an independent accountant on whom the
principal accountant is expected to express reliance in its report regarding a significant
subsidiary, the issuer must disclose the information that would be required by
Item 304(a)(2) of Regulation S-K (17 CFR 229.304(a)(2)) if the issuer were a
“registrant.”
Instructions to Item 4:
1. Information under this Item 4 is only required if the issuer’s most recent
qualified offering statement on Form 1-A or report on Form 1-K, whichever is
most recent, contains audited financial statements.
2. The resignation or dismissal of an independent accountant, or its refusal to
stand for re-appointment, is a reportable event separate from the engagement of a
new independent accountant. On some occasions, two reports on Form 1-U are
required for a single change in accountants, the first on the resignation (or
refusal to stand for re-appointment) or dismissal of the former accountant and the
second when the new accountant is engaged. Information required in the second
Form 1-U filing in such situations need not be provided to the extent that it has
been reported previously in the first Form 1-U filing.
Item 5.

Non-reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related
Audit Report or Completed Interim Review

(a) If the issuer’s board of directors, a committee of the board of directors or the officer
or officers of the issuer authorized to take such action if board action is not required,
438

concludes that any previously issued financial statements, covering one or more years or
interim periods for which the issuer is required to provide financial statements under
Regulation A, including Form 1-A, should no longer be relied upon because of an error in
such financial statements as addressed in FASB Accounting Standards Codification
Topic 250 or IAS 8, as may be modified, supplemented or succeeded, disclose the
following information:
(1) the date of the conclusion regarding the non-reliance and an identification of
the financial statements and years or periods covered that should no longer be
relied upon;
(2) a brief description of the facts underlying the conclusion to the extent known
to the issuer at the time of filing;
and
(3) a statement of whether the audit committee, or the board of directors in the
absence of an audit committee, or authorized officer or officers, discussed with
the issuer’s independent accountant the matters disclosed in the filing pursuant to
this paragraph (a).
(b) If the issuer is advised by, or receives notice from, its independent accountant that
disclosure should be made or action should be taken to prevent future reliance on a
previously issued audit report or completed interim review related to previously issued
financial statements, disclose the following information:
(1) the date on which the issuer was so advised or notified;
(2) identification of the financial statements that should no longer be relied upon;
(3) a brief description of the information provided by the accountant; and
(4) a statement of whether the audit committee, or the board of directors in the
absence of an audit committee, or authorized officer or officers, discussed with
the independent accountant the matters disclosed in the filing pursuant to
paragraph (b) of this item.
(c) If the issuer receives advisement or notice from its independent accountant requiring
disclosure under paragraph (b) of this item, the issuer must:
(1) provide the independent accountant with a copy of the disclosures the issuer is
making in response to this item and the independent accountant shall receive a
copy no later than the day that the disclosures are filed with the Commission;
(2) request the independent accountant to furnish to the issuer as promptly as
possible a letter addressed to the Commission stating whether the independent

439

accountant agrees with the statements made by the issuer in response to this item
and, if not, stating the respects in which it does not agree; and
(3) amend the issuer’s previously filed Form 1-U by filing the independent
accountant’s letter as an exhibit to the filed Form 1-U no later than two business
days after the issuer’s receipt of the letter.
Item 6.

Changes in Control of Issuer

(a) If, to the knowledge of the issuer’s board of directors, a committee of the board of
directors, governing body similar to a board of directors, or authorized officer or officers
of the issuer, a change in control of the issuer has occurred, furnish the following
information:
(1) the identity of the persons who acquired such control;
(2) the date and a description of the transactions which resulted in the change in
control;
(3) the basis of the control, including the percentage of voting securities of the
issuer now beneficially owned directly or indirectly by the persons who acquired
control;
(4) the amount of the consideration used by such persons;
(5) the sources of funds used by the persons, unless all or any part of the
consideration used is a loan made in the ordinary course of business by a bank as
defined by Section 3(a)(6) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(6) the identity of the persons from whom control was assumed; and
(7) any arrangements or understandings among members of both the former and
new control groups and their associates with respect to election of directors or
other matters.
(b) Describe any arrangements, known to the issuer, including any pledge by any person
of securities of the issuer or any of its parents, the operation of which may at a
subsequent date result in a change in control of the issuer. It is not necessary to describe
ordinary default provisions contained in the charter, trust indentures, or other governing
instruments relating to securities of the issuer in response to this paragraph.
Item 7.

Departure of Certain Officers

If the issuer’s principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting
officer, or any person performing similar functions, retires, resigns or is terminated from
that position, disclose the fact that the event has occurred and the date of the event.
440

Instruction to Item 7:
The disclosure requirements of this item do not apply to an issuer that is a whollyowned subsidiary of an issuer with a class of securities registered under Section
12 of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78l), or that is required to file reports under
Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(d)) or under Regulation A.
Item 8.

Certain Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities

(a) If the issuer sells equity securities in a transaction that is not registered under the
Securities Act or qualified under Regulation A, furnish the information set forth in Item 6
of Part I of Form 1-A. For purposes of determining the required filing date for the Form
1-U under this item, the issuer has no obligation to disclose information under this item
until the issuer enters into an agreement enforceable against the issuer, whether or not
subject to conditions, under which the equity securities are to be sold. If there is no such
agreement, the issuer must provide the disclosure within four business days after the
occurrence of the closing or settlement of the transaction or arrangement under which the
equity securities are to be sold.
(b) No report need be filed if the equity securities sold, in the aggregate since its last
report filed under this item or its last periodic report containing such disclosure,
whichever is more recent, constitute less than 10% of the number of shares outstanding of
the class of equity securities sold.
Instructions to Item 8:
1. For purposes of this item, “the number of shares outstanding” refers to the
actual number of shares of equity securities of the class outstanding and does not
include outstanding securities convertible into or exchangeable for such equity
securities.
2. It is not necessary to follow the format of Item 6 of Part I of Form 1-A when
providing the information required by this item.
Item 9.

Other Events

The issuer may, at its option, disclose under this item any events or information, the
disclosure of which is not otherwise called for by this Form, that the issuer deems of
importance to securityholders.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation A, the issuer has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

441

(Exact name of issuer as specified in its charter)
By (Signature and Title)
Date
Note: The text of Form 1-U will not appear in the Code of Federal Regulations.

17.

Add § 239.94 to read as follows:

§ 239.94

Form 1-Z.

This form shall be used to file an exit report under Regulation A (§§ 230.251230.263 of this chapter).
18.

Add Form 1-Z (referenced in § 239.94) to read as follows:
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 1-Z
EXIT REPORT UNDER REGULATION A
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
(1) The following information must be provided in the XML-based Form 1-Z available
through the EDGAR portal. The format shown below may differ from the electronic
version available on EDGAR.
(2) An issuer filing this Form pursuant to Rule 257(a) must only complete the
Preliminary Information and Part I.
(3) An issuer filing this Form to suspend its duty to file reports under Rule 257(d) must
complete the Preliminary Information and Part II. Such issuer must also provide Part I if
it has not previously provided the Part I information in a Form 1-K filing.
* * * * * *
PRELIMINARY INFORMATION
Exact name of issuer as specified in the issuer’s charter:

442

Address of Principal Executive Offices:

Phone: ( )
Commission File Number(s):
PART I
Summary Information Regarding the Offering and Proceeds
Date of qualification of the offering statement:
Date of commencement of the offering:
Amount of securities qualified to be sold in the offering:
Amount of securities sold in the offering:
Price per security: $
The portion of aggregate sales attributable to securities sold on behalf of the issuer:
$
The portion of aggregate sales attributable to securities sold on behalf of selling
securityholders:
$
Fees in connection with this offering and names of service providers:
Name of Service Provider
Underwriters:
Sales Commissions:
Finders’ Fees:
Audit:
Legal:
Promoters:
Blue Sky Compliance:

Fees
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

CRD Number of any broker or dealer listed:
Net proceeds to the issuer: $
Clarification of responses (if necessary):
PART II
Certification of Suspension of Duty to File Reports
443

Title of each class of securities covered by this Form
Commission File Number(s)
Approximate number of holders of record as of the certification date:
Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation A,
(Name of
issuer as specified in charter) certifies that it meets all of the conditions for termination
of Regulation A reporting specified in Rule 257(d) and that there are no classes of
securities other than those that are the subject of this Form 1-Z regarding which the issuer
has Regulation A reporting obligations.
(Name of issuer as
specified in charter) has caused this certification to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned duly authorized person.
By:
Title:

Date: ______________________________

Instruction: This Part II of Form 1-Z is required by Rule 257(d) of Regulation A. An
officer of the issuer or any other duly authorized person may sign, and must do so by
typed signature. The name and title of the person signing the form must be typed or
printed under the signature. The signatory to the filing must also manually sign a
signature page or other document authenticating, acknowledging or otherwise adopting
his or her signature that appears in the filing. Such document must be executed before or
at the time the filing is made and must be retained by the issuer for a period of five years.
Upon request, the issuer must furnish to the Commission or its staff a copy of any or all
documents retained pursuant to this instruction.
Note: The text of Form 1-Z will not appear in the Code of Federal Regulations.
PART 240 – GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
19.

The authority citation for part 240 continues to read in part as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77c, 77d, 77g, 77j, 77s, 77z-2, 77z-3, 77eee, 77ggg, 77nnn,

77sss, 77ttt, 78c, 78c-3, 78c-5, 78d, 78e, 78f, 78g, 78i, 78j, 78j-1, 78k, 78k-1, 78l, 78m,
78n, 78n-1, 78o, 78o-4, 78o-10, 78p, 78q, 78q-1, 78s, 78u-5, 78w, 78x, 78ll, 78mm, 80a20, 80a-23, 80a-29, 80a-37, 80b-3, 80b-4, 80b-11, 7201 et seq.; and 8302; 7 U.S.C.

444

2(c)(2)(E); 12 U.S.C. 5221(e)(3); 18 U.S.C. 1350; and Pub. L. 111-203, 939A, 124 Stat.
1376, (2010), unless otherwise noted.
*****
20.

Section 240.12g5-1 is amended by adding paragraph (a)(7) to read as follows:

§ 240.12g5-1 Definition of securities “held of record”.
(a) * * *
(7) Other than when determining compliance with Rule 257(d)(2) of Regulation A
(§ 230.257(d)(2) of this chapter), the definition of “held of record” shall not include
securities issued in a Tier 2 offering pursuant to Regulation A by an issuer that:
(i) Is required to file reports pursuant to Rule 257(b) of Regulation A (§
230.257(b) of this chapter);
(ii) Is current in filing annual, semiannual and special financial reports
pursuant to such rule as of its most recently completed fiscal year end;
(iii) Has engaged a transfer agent registered pursuant to Section 17A(c) of the
Act to perform the function of a transfer agent with respect to such securities; and
(iv) Had a public float of less than $75 million as of the last business day of its
most recently completed semiannual period, computed by multiplying the aggregate
worldwide number of shares of its common equity securities held by non-affiliates by the
price at which such securities were last sold (or the average bid and asked prices of such
securities) in the principal market for such securities or, in the event the result of such
public float calculation was zero, had annual revenues of less than $50 million as of its
most recently completed fiscal year. An issuer that would be required to register a class
of securities under Section 12(g) of the Act as a result of exceeding the applicable

445

threshold in this paragraph (a)(7)(iv), may continue to exclude the relevant securities
from the definition of “held of record” for a transition period ending on the penultimate
day of the fiscal year two years after the date it became ineligible. The transition period
terminates immediately upon the failure of an issuer to timely file any periodic report due
pursuant to Rule 257 (§ 230.257 of this chapter) at which time the issuer must file a
registration statement that registers that class of securities under the Act within 120 days.
*****

21.

Section 240.15c2-11 is amended by revising paragraphs (a)(3) and (d)(2)(i) to

read as follows:
§ 240.15c2-11 Initiation or resumption of quotations without specific information.
*****
(a) * * *
(3) A copy of the issuer's most recent annual report filed pursuant to section 13 or
15(d) of the Act or pursuant to Regulation A ((§§ 230.251 through 230.263 of this
chapter), or a copy of the annual statement referred to in section 12(g)(2)(G)(i) of the Act
in the case of an issuer required to file reports pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Act
or an issuer of a security covered by section 12(g)(2)(B) or (G) of the Act, together with
any semiannual, quarterly and current reports that have been filed under the provisions of
the Act or Regulation A by the issuer after such annual report or annual statement;
provided, however, that until such issuer has filed its first annual report pursuant to
section 13 or 15(d) of the Act or pursuant to Regulation A, or annual statement referred
to in section 12(g)(2)(G)(i) of the Act, the broker or dealer has in its records a copy of the

446

prospectus specified by section 10(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 included in a
registration statement filed by the issuer under the Securities Act of 1933, other than a
registration statement on Form F-6, or a copy of the offering circular specified by
Regulation A included in an offering statement filed by the issuer under Regulation A,
that became effective or was qualified within the prior 16 months, or a copy of any
registration statement filed by the issuer under section 12 of the Act that became effective
within the prior 16 months, together with any semiannual, quarterly and current reports
filed thereafter under section 13 or 15(d) of the Act or Regulation A; and provided
further, that the broker or dealer has a reasonable basis under the circumstances for
believing that the issuer is current in filing annual, semiannual, quarterly, and current
reports filed pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Act or Regulation A, or, in the case of
an insurance company exempted from section 12(g) of the Act by reason of section
12(g)(2)(G) thereof, the annual statement referred to in section 12(g)(2)(G)(i) of the Act;
or
*****
(d) * * *
(2) * * *
(i) A broker-dealer shall be in compliance with the requirement to obtain current
reports filed by the issuer if the broker-dealer obtains all current reports filed with the
Commission by the issuer as of a date up to five business days in advance of the earlier of
the date of submission of the quotation to the quotation medium and the date of
submission of the information in paragraph (a) of this section pursuant to the applicable
rule of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. or its successor organization;

447

and
*****
PART 249 – FORMS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
22.

The authority citation for part 249 continues to read in part as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 78a et seq. and 7201 et seq.; 12 U.S.C. 5461 et seq.; and 18

U.S.C. 1350, unless otherwise noted.
*****
23.

Section 249.208 is amended by:
a.

Revising paragraph (a); and

b.

Adding paragraph (e).

The revision and addition read as follows:
§249.208a Form 8-A, for registration of certain classes of securities pursuant to
section 12 (b) or (g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this section, this form may be used for registration
pursuant to section 12(b) or (g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 of any class of
securities of any issuer which:
(1) Is required to file reports pursuant to sections 13 and 15(d) of that Act;
(2) Is concurrently qualifying a Tier 2 offering statement relating to that class of
securities using the Form S-1 or Form S-11 disclosure models; or
(3) Pursuant to an order exempting the exchange on which the issuer has
securities listed from registration as a national securities exchange.
*****
(e) Notwithstanding the foregoing in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, if the

448

form is used for registration of a class of securities being offered under Regulation A, it
shall become effective:
(1) For the registration of a class of securities under Section 12(b), upon the latest
of the filing of the form with the Commission, the qualification of the Regulation A
offering statement or the receipt by the Commission of certification from the national
securities exchange listed on the form; or
(2) For the registration of a class of securities under Section 12(g), upon the later
of the filing of the form and qualification of that Regulation A offering statement.
24.

Amend Form 8-A (referenced in § 249.208a) by revising it to read as follows:
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 8-A
FOR REGISTRATION OF CERTAIN CLASSES OF SECURITIES
PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OR (g) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
A. Rule as to Use of Form 8-A.
(a) Subject to paragraph (b) below, this form may be used for registration pursuant to
Section 12(b) or (g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 of any class of securities of
any issuer which is (1) required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of that Act,
(2) is concurrently qualifying a Tier 2 offering statement relating to that class of
securities using the Form S-1 or Form S-11 disclosure models that includes financial
statements that are audited in accordance with the standards of, and by an accounting
firm that is registered with, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States), or (3) pursuant to an order exempting the exchange on which the issuer has
securities listed from registration as a national securities exchange.
(b) If the registrant would be required to file an annual report pursuant to Section 15(d) of
the Act for its last fiscal year, except for the fact that the registration statement on this
form will become effective before such report is required to be filed, an annual report for
such fiscal year shall nevertheless be filed within the period specified in the appropriate
annual report form.
449

(c) If this form is used for the registration of a class of securities under Section 12(b), it
shall become effective:
(1) If a class of securities is not concurrently being registered under the Securities Act
of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.) (“Securities Act”), upon the later of receipt by the
Commission of certification from the national securities exchange listed on this form
or the filing of the Form 8-A with the Commission; or
(2) If a class of securities is concurrently being registered under the Securities Act,
upon the latest of the filing of the Form 8-A with the Commission, receipt by the
Commission of certification from the national securities exchange listed on this form
or effectiveness of the Securities Act registration statement relating to the class of
securities.
(d) If this form is used for the registration of a class of securities under Section 12(g), it
shall become effective:
(1) If a class of securities is not concurrently being registered under the Securities Act,
upon the filing of the Form 8-A with the Commission; or
(2) If class of securities is concurrently being registered under the Securities Act, upon
the later of the filing of the Form 8-A with the Commission or the effectiveness of the
Securities Act registration statement relating to the class of securities.
(e) Notwithstanding the foregoing in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this form, if this form is
used for registration of a class of securities being offered under Regulation A, it shall
become effective:
(1) For the registration of a class of securities under Section 12(b), upon the latest of
the filing of the Form 8-A with the Commission, the qualification of the Regulation A
offering statement or the receipt by the Commission of certification from the national
securities exchange listed on this form; or
(2) For the registration of a class of securities under Section 12(g), upon the later of
the filing of the Form 8-A and qualification of the Regulation A offering statement.
(Note: Registration pursuant to paragraph (e) of this form is not permitted if the filing of
the Form 8-A and, where applicable, the receipt by the Commission of certification from
the national securities exchange listed on this form occurs more than five calendar days
after the qualification of the Regulation A offering statement)
B. Application of General Rules and Regulations.
(a) The General Rules and Regulations under the Act contain certain general
requirements which are applicable to registration on any form. These general
450

requirements should be carefully read and observed in the preparation and filing of
registration statements on this form.
(b) Particular attention is directed to Regulation l2B which contains general requirements
regarding matters such as the kind and size of paper to be used, legibility, information to
be given whenever the title of securities is required to be stated, incorporation by
reference and the filing of the registration statement. The definitions contained in Rule
12b-2 should be especially noted.
C. Preparation of Registration Statement.
This form is not to be used as a blank form to be filled in, but only as a guide in the
preparation of the registration statement on paper meeting the requirements of Rule l2b12. The registration statement shall contain the item numbers and captions, but the text of
the items may be omitted. The answers to the items shall be prepared in the manner
specified in Rule 12b-l3.
D. Signature and Filing of Registration Statement.
Eight complete copies of the registration statement, including all papers and
documents filed as a part thereof (other than exhibits) shall be filed with the Commission
and at least one such copy shall be filed with each exchange on which the securities are to
be registered. Exhibits shall be filed with the Commission and with any exchange in
accordance with the Instructions as to Exhibits. At least one copy of the registration
statement filed with the Commission and one filed with each exchange shall be manually
signed. Unsigned copies shall be conformed.
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 8-A
FOR REGISTRATION OF CERTAIN CLASSES OF SECURITIES
PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OR (g) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer
Identification No.)

(Address of principal executive
offices)

(Zip Code)

451

Securities to be registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of each class
to be so registered

Name of each exchange on which
each class is to be registered

If this form relates to the registration of a class of securities pursuant to Section 12(b) of
the Exchange Act and is effective pursuant to General Instruction A.(c) or (e), check the
following box.
If this form relates to the registration of a class of securities pursuant to Section 12(g) of
the Exchange Act and is effective pursuant to General Instruction A.(d) or (e), check the
following box.
If this form relates to the registration of a class of securities concurrently with a
Regulation A offering, check the following box.
Securities Act registration statement or Regulation A offering statement file number to
which this form relates:
(if applicable)
Securities to be registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

(Title of class)

(Title of class)
INFORMATION REQUIRED IN REGISTRATION STATEMENT
Item 1. Description of Registrant’s Securities to be Registered.
Furnish the information required by Item 202 of Regulation S-K (§229.202 of this
chapter), as applicable.
Instruction. If a description of the securities comparable to that required here is
contained in any prior filing with the Commission, such description may be incorporated
by reference to such other filing in answer to this item. If such description will be
included in a form of prospectus or an offering circular subsequently filed by the
registrant pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act (§230.424(b) of this chapter)
or Rule 253(g) of Regulation A (§ 230.253(g) of this chapter), this registration statement
shall state that such prospectus or offering circular shall be deemed to be incorporated by
452

reference into the registration statement. If the securities are to be registered on a national
securities exchange and the description has not previously been filed with such exchange,
copies of the description shall be filed with copies of the application filed with the
exchange.
Item 2. Exhibits.
List below all exhibits filed as a part of the registration statement:
Instruction. See the instructions as to exhibits, set forth below.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of Section l2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this registration statement to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereto duly authorized.
(Registrant)
Date
By
*

Print the name and title of the signing officer under such officer’s signature.
INSTRUCTIONS AS TO EXHIBITS

If the securities to be registered on this form are to be registered on an exchange on
which other securities of the registrant are registered, or are to be registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act, copies of all constituent instruments defining the rights of the
holders of each class of such securities, including any contracts or other documents which
limit or qualify the rights of such holders, shall be filed as exhibits with each copy of the
registration statement filed with the Commission or with an exchange, subject to Rule
12b-32 regarding incorporation of exhibits by reference.
Note: The text of Form 8-A will not appear in the Code of Federal Regulations.
PART 260 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, TRUST INDENTURE
ACT OF 1939
25.

The authority citation for part 260 is revised to read as follows:

Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77c, 77ddd, 77eee, 77ggg, 77nnn, 77sss, 78ll (d), 80b-3, 80b-4, and
80b-11, unless otherwise noted.
453

26.

Section 260.4a-1 is revised to read as follows:

§ 260.4a-1 Exempted securities under section 304(a)(8).
The provisions of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 shall not apply to any security
that has been or will be issued otherwise than under an indenture. The same issuer may
not claim this exemption within a period of twelve consecutive months for more than
$50,000,000 aggregate principal amount of any securities.

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields,
Secretary.
Dated: March 25, 2015.

454

