UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 9366/ October 29,2012
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-15083

In the Matter of
the Registration Statement of
Caribbean Pacific Marketing, Inc.,
2295 Corporate Blvd., NW,
Suite 131,
Boca Raton, FL 33431.

ORDER FIXING TIME AND PLACE
OF PUBLIC HEARING AND
INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION S(d) OF
THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933

I.

The Commission's public official files disclose that:
On August 24, 2012, Caribbean Pacific Marketing, Inc. ("Respondent") filed an amended
Form S-1 registration statement (the "Registration Statement") with the Commission that became
effective on August 29, 2012, registering up to I ,000,000 shares of common stock for sale to the
public by Respondent.
II.

The Division of Enforcement alleges, as set forth in the Statement of Matters of the
Division of Enforcement attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference, that the
Registration Statement is materially misleading and deficient as it fails to disclose that William J.
Reilly, a disbarred attorney subject to an injunction, is a de facto executive officer and control
person of the Respondent. The Registration Statement failed to include any information about
Reilly's position with Respondent and his business experience.

III.
The Commission, having considered the aforesaid, deems it appropriate and in the public
interest that public proceedings pursuant to Section 8(d) of the Securities Act be instituted with
respect to the Registration Statement to detennine whether the allegations of the Division of
Enforcement, as set forth in the Statement of Matters attached hereto and incorporated herein by
reference, are true; to afford the Respondent with an opportunity to establish any defenses to
these allegations; and to detennine whether a stop order should issue suspending the
effectiveness of the Registration Statement referred to herein.
Accordingly, IT IS ORDERED that public proceedings be and hereby are instituted under
Section 8(d) of the Securities Act, such hearing to be commenced at 9:30a.m. on November 15,
2012, at the Commission's offices at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, DC 20549, and to continue
thereafter at such time and place as the hearing officer may detennine.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that these proceedings shall be presided over by an
Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order, who is authorized to perfonn all the
duties of an Administrative Law Judge as set forth in the Commission's Rules of Practice or as
otherwise provided by law.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Respondent sha11 file an Answer to the allegations
contained in this Order within ten (I 0) days after service of this Order, pursuant to Rule 220 of
the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220. If the Respondent fails to file the
directed answer, or fails to appear at a hearing after being duly notified, the Respondent may be
deemed in default and the proceedings may be detennined against the Respondent upon
consideration of this Order, the allegations of which may be deemed to be true as provided by
Rules 155(a), 220(t), 22I(t) and 310 ofthe Commission's Rules ofPractice, 17 C.F.R. §§
201.155(a), 201.220(t), 22l(t) and 201.310. This Order shall be served forthwith upon the
Respondent personally.

2

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an initial
decision no later than 60 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to Rule 360(a)(2)
ofthe Commission's Rules of Practice. In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or
employee of the Commission engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting
functions in this or any factually related proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in
the decision of this matter, except as witness or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice.
Since this proceeding is not "rule making" within the meaning of Section 551 of the
Administrative Procedure Act, it is not deemed subject to the provisions of Section 553 delaying
the effective date of any final Commission action.

By the Commission.

Elizabeth M. Murphy
Secretary

3

