SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
17 CFR Part 230
[Release No. 33-9643; File No. S7-09-14]
RIN 3235-AL41
Treatment of Certain Communications Involving Security-Based Swaps That May Be
Purchased Only By Eligible Contract Participants
AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission.
ACTION: Proposed rule.
SUMMARY: We are proposing a rule under the Securities Act of 1933 to provide that certain
communications involving security-based swaps that may be purchased only by eligible contract
participants will not be deemed for purposes of Section 5 of the Securities Act to constitute
offers of such security-based swaps or any guarantees of such security-based swaps that are
securities. Under the proposed rule, the publication or distribution of price quotes relating to
security-based swaps that may be purchased only by persons who are eligible contract
participants and are traded or processed on or through a facility that either is registered as a
national securities exchange or as a security-based swap execution facility, or is exempt from
registration as a security-based swap execution facility pursuant to a rule, regulation, or order of
the Commission, would not be deemed to constitute an offer, an offer to sell, or a solicitation of
an offer to buy or purchase such security-based swaps or any guarantees of such security-based
swaps that are securities for purposes of Section 5 of the Securities Act.
DATES: Comments should be received on or before November 10, 2014.

ADDRESSES: Comments may be submitted by any of the following methods:
Electronic Comments:

•

Use the Commission’s Internet comment form
(http://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed.shtml);

•

Send an e-mail to rule-comments@sec.gov. Please include File Number S7-09-14 on the
subject line; or

•

Use the Federal eRulemaking Portal (http://www.regulations.gov). Follow the
instructions for submitting comments.

Paper Comments:
•

Send paper comments to Kevin M. O’Neill, Deputy Secretary, Securities and Exchange
Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-1090.
All submissions should refer to File Number S7-09-14. This file number should be

included on the subject line if e-mail is used. To help us process and review your comments
more efficiently, please use only one method. We will post all comments on the Commission’s
Internet website (http://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed.shtml). Comments also are available for
website viewing and printing in the Commission’s Public Reference Room, 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, DC 20549, on official business days between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m.
All comments received will be posted without change; we do not edit personal identifying
information from submissions. You should submit only information that you wish to make
available publicly.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Andrew Schoeffler, Special Counsel, Office
of Capital Markets Trends, Division of Corporation Finance, at (202) 551-3860, U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-3628.

2

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: We are proposing Rule 135d under the Securities
Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”). 1
I.

BACKGROUND
On July 21, 2010, the President signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and

Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”) 2 into law. Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act
(“Title VII”) provides the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC” or the “Commission”)
and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) with the authority to regulate overthe-counter derivatives. Under Title VII, the CFTC regulates “swaps,” the SEC regulates
“security-based swaps,” and the CFTC and SEC jointly regulate “mixed swaps.” 3
Title VII amended the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(“Exchange Act”) 4 to include “security-based swaps” in the definition of “security” for purposes
of those statutes. 5 As a result, “security-based swaps” are subject to the provisions of the

1

15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.

2

Pub. L. No. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010).

3

Section 712(d) of the Dodd-Frank Act provides that the SEC and the CFTC, in consultation with
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, shall jointly further define the terms
“swap,” “security-based swap,” “swap dealer,” “security-based swap dealer,” “major swap
participant,” “major security-based swap participant,” “eligible contract participant,” and
“security-based swap agreement.” These terms are defined in Sections 721 and 761 of the DoddFrank Act and, with respect to the term “eligible contract participant,” in Section 1a(18) of the
Commodity Exchange Act [7 U.S.C. 1a(18)], as re-designated and amended by Section 721 of the
Dodd-Frank Act. The SEC and the CFTC adopted final rules further defining these terms. See
Further Definition of “Swap Dealer,” “Security-Based Swap Dealer,” “Major Swap Participant,”
“Major Security-Based Swap Participant” and “Eligible Contract Participant”, Release No. 3466868 (Apr. 27, 2012), 77 FR 30596 (May 23, 2012), and Further Definition of “Swap,”
“Security-Based Swap,” and “Security-Based Swap Agreement”; Mixed Swaps; Security-Based
Swap Agreement Recordkeeping, Release No. 33-9338 (Jul. 18, 2012), 77 FR 48208 (Aug. 13,
2012) (“Product Definitions Adopting Release”).

4

15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.

5

See Sections 761(a)(2) and 768(a)(1) of the Dodd-Frank Act (amending Section 3(a)(10) of the
Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(10)] and Section 2(a)(1) of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C.
77b(a)(1)], respectively).

3

Securities Act and the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to
securities. The Securities Act requires that any offer and sale of a security must either be
registered under the Securities Act or be made pursuant to an exemption from registration. 6 As a
result, counterparties entering into security-based swap transactions need either to rely on an
available exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act or register such
transactions. Title VII amended the Securities Act to require that security-based swap
transactions involving persons who are not eligible contract participants 7 must be registered
under the Securities Act. 8
Transactions in security-based swaps historically have occurred through bilateral trades
in the over-the-counter market. 9 Currently, security-based swap dealers can locate counterparties

6

See 15 U.S.C. 77e.

7

The term “eligible contract participant” is defined in Section 1a(18) of the Commodity Exchange
Act [7 U.S.C. 1a(18)]. The definition of the term “eligible contract participant” in the Securities
Act refers to the definition of “eligible contract participant” in the Commodity Exchange Act.
See Section 5(e) of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. 77e(e)]. The eligible contract participant
definition includes several categories of persons: financial institutions; insurance companies;
investment companies; commodity pools; business entities, such as corporations, partnerships,
and trusts; employee benefit plans; government entities, such as the United States, a State or local
municipality, a foreign government, a multinational or supranational government entity, or an
instrumentality, agency or department of such entities; market professionals, such as broker
dealers, futures commission merchants, floor brokers, and investment advisors; and natural
persons with a specified dollar amount invested on a discretionary basis. The SEC and the CFTC
adopted final rules further defining the term “eligible contract participant.” See footnote 3 above.

8

See Section 768(b) of the Dodd-Frank Act (adding new Section 5(d) of the Securities Act [15
U.S.C. 77e(d)]) (Notwithstanding the provisions of section 3 or 4, unless a registration statement
meeting the requirements of section 10(a) is in effect as to a security-based swap, it shall be
unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, to make use of any means or instruments of
transportation or communication in interstate commerce or of the mails to offer to sell, offer to
buy or purchase or sell a security-based swap to any person who is not an eligible contract
participant as defined in section 1a(18) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(18)).)).
Section 105(c)(1) of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (the “JOBS Act”) redesignated
paragraph (d) of Section 5 of the Securities Act as paragraph (e). See Pub. L. No. 112-106, 126
Stat. 306 (2012).

9

See letter from Kenneth E. Bentsen, Jr., Executive Vice President, Public Policy and Advocacy,
The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (“SIFMA”), and Robert Pickel, Chief

4

for transactions in security-based swaps by using various methods, including electronic trading
platforms. 10 Security-based swap dealers may solicit transactions in security-based swaps from
their institutional client base via phone calls, email, and in-person meetings. Clients sometimes
contact security-based swap dealers who are well known in the market to request a quote for a
particular transaction. In addition, security-based swap dealers may opt to locate counterparties
by engaging the services of an inter-dealer broker. According to a commenter, security-based
swap dealers also disseminate trading interest in security-based swaps by sending messages via
on-line information services such as Bloomberg. 11 These electronic messages are sent only to
accounts with whom security-based swap dealers and brokers have pre-existing relationships. 12
Security-based swap dealers also may communicate pricing information or quotes for securitybased swaps through electronic trading platforms that require pre-clearance for access and are
accessible only to approved customers. These platforms include single-dealer request for quote
platforms, aggregator-type platforms, multi-dealer request for quote platforms, limit order book
systems, and electronic brokering platforms. 13 Certain of these platforms may become security-

Executive Officer, International Swaps and Derivatives Association (“ISDA”), dated Apr. 20,
2012 (“SIFMA/ISDA Letter”). The SIFMA/ISDA letter was submitted in response to the request
for comment in Exemptions for Security-Based Swaps, Release No. 33-9231 (Jul. 1, 2011), 76
FR 40605 (Jul. 11, 2011) (“Interim Final Exemptions Adopting Release”). In considering
whether the exemptions adopted in the Interim Final Exemptions Adopting Release were
necessary or appropriate, the Commission requested information about how security-based swaps
are currently transacted and will be transacted following the full implementation of Title VII. In
response to the request for comment, the SIFMA/ISDA Letter provided a description of how the
security-based swaps market functions and how it may function following the full implementation
of Title VII. See SIFMA/ISDA Letter.
10

See SIFMA/ISDA Letter.

11

Id.

12

Id.

13

Id.

5

based swap execution facilities (“security-based SEFs”) 14 upon the full implementation of Title
VII, but the particular characteristics of trading platforms that security-based SEFs will be
permitted to operate will not be known until we adopt final rules implementing the statutory
provisions of Title VII governing the registration and regulation of security-based SEFs. 15
Title VII has added a requirement that security-based swaps be traded on regulated
trading platforms or exchanges in certain situations. Title VII contains a mandatory clearing
provision that requires security-based swap transactions to be submitted for clearing to a clearing
agency if such security-based swap is one that the Commission has determined is required to be
cleared, unless an exception from mandatory clearing applies (“mandatory clearing
requirement”). 16 This section of Title VII further provides that for security-based swaps that are
subject to the mandatory clearing requirement, transactions in such security-based swaps must be
executed on an exchange or on a registered or exempt security-based SEF, unless no exchange or
security-based SEF makes such security-based swap available for trading (“mandatory trade
execution requirement”). 17 If a security-based swap transaction is not subject to the mandatory
clearing requirement, the transaction may still be cleared on a voluntary basis by a clearing
agency if the clearing agency has rules that permit it to clear the security-based swap. 18

14

See Section 761 of the Dodd-Frank Act (adding Section 3(a)(77) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.
78c(a)(77)] (defining the term “security-based swap execution facility”)), and Registration and
Regulation of Security-Based Swap Execution Facilities, Release No. 34-63825 (Feb. 2, 2011) 76
FR 10948 (Feb. 28, 2011) (“Security-Based SEF Proposing Release”).

15

See Security-Based SEF Proposing Release.

16

See Section 763(a) of the Dodd-Frank Act (adding Section 3C of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.
78c-3]).

17

Id.

18

See Exemptions for Security-Based Swaps Issued By Certain Clearing Agencies, Release No. 339308 (Mar. 30, 2012), 77 FR 20536 (Apr. 5, 2012) (“Cleared SBS Exemptions Adopting
Release”).

6

Security-based swap transactions, whether or not subsequently cleared, may be executed on a
security-based SEF. 19
Any facility for trading or processing security-based swaps, including some of the
electronic trading platforms currently used by security-based swap dealers to disseminate quotes
to their clients, must be registered as a security-based SEF or as a national securities exchange. 20
Once registered, a security-based SEF may make security-based swaps available for trading and
facilitate trade processing of security-based swaps. We believe that security-based SEFs, as well
as exchanges that post or trade security-based swaps, should help to provide greater transparency
and a more competitive environment for the trading of security-based swaps by providing venues
for multiple parties to execute trades in security-based swaps and also by serving as conduits for
information regarding trading interest in security-based swaps. 21 While security-based swap
transactions currently are effected through the over-the-counter market, rather than on regulated
markets, with the full implementation of Title VII, such transactions will occur both through
regulated markets, such as registered or exempt security-based SEFs and national securities
exchanges, and through over-the-counter transactions under certain circumstances.
Title VII amends the Exchange Act to add various new statutory provisions to govern the
regulation of security-based SEFs, including provisions relating to who may access such trading
platforms (known as an “impartial access requirement”) and the availability of bid, offer, or other
19

Id.

20

See Section 763(c) of the Dodd-Frank Act (adding Section 3D(a)(1) of the Exchange Act [15
U.S.C. 78c-4(a)(1)]). We view this requirement as applying only to a facility that meets the
definition of “security-based swap execution facility” in Section 3(a)(77) of the Exchange Act.
Under the Dodd-Frank Act, security-based swaps that that are not subject to the mandatory trade
execution requirement would not have to be traded on a registered security-based SEF and could
continue to be traded in the over-the-counter market for security-based swaps. See SecurityBased SEF Proposing Release.

21

See Security-Based SEF Proposing Release.

7

price information regarding security-based swaps. 22 The impartial access requirement would
require a security-based SEF to establish objective standards for granting impartial access to
trading on the security-based SEF. The proposed rules for regulating security-based SEFs would
impose an affirmative requirement for security-based SEFs to admit as participants all eligible
persons that meet those standards for becoming a participant. 23 Further, the proposed rules for
regulating security-based SEFs would require security-based SEFs to provide at least a basic
functionality to allow any participant on a security-based SEF the ability to make and display
executable bids or offers accessible to all other participants on the security-based SEF, if the
participant chooses to do so. 24 Consequently, registered security-based SEFs may be unable to
limit the number or types of persons that have access to quotes on their trading platforms. For
example, following the full implementation of Title VII, the rules of security-based SEFs and
national securities exchanges may require the publication or distribution of quotes for security-

22

See Section 763 of the Dodd-Frank Act (adding Sections 3C and 3D of the Exchange Act [15
U.S.C. 78c-3 and 78c-4]). We have proposed rules to implement the statutory provisions
regarding the regulation of security-based SEFs. See Security-Based SEF Proposing Release. To
be registered as a security-based SEF a trading platform must comply with certain enumerated
core principles, one of which is that a security-based SEF must provide market participants with
impartial access to become participants in the security-based SEF. See Section 3D(d) of the
Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78c-4(d)]. We have proposed rules to implement the impartial access
requirement that would set forth the categories of persons that would be permitted to have direct
access to trading on a security-based SEF as a participant and also the terms and conditions that
the security-based SEF would need to adopt for granting such access. See Security-Based SEF
Proposing Release. The impartial access requirement is analogous to the fair access requirement
for national securities exchanges under Section 6(b)(2) of the Exchange Act, which also imposes
an affirmative duty to admit qualified broker-dealers as members. See 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(2)
(“[T]he rules of the exchange [must] provide that any registered broker or dealer or natural person
associated with a registered broker or dealer may become a member of such exchange…”).

23

See Security-Based SEF Proposing Release. This proposed requirement is in contrast to the
current structure of security-based swap trading platforms, as noted above, in which the trading
platform operators and the security-based swap dealers have discretion over authorizing
participants to access the platform and to see quotes for security-based swaps from the securitybased swap dealers.

24

See Security-Based SEF Proposing Release.

8

based swaps to be available to all participants in these platforms. As is the case today,
participants in these platforms may be able to further disseminate such quotes, including through
on-line information services, without restriction depending on the particular rules of these
platforms. As a result, such quotes may be available to any person on an unrestricted basis.
The operation of security-based SEFs and national securities exchanges that post bids,
offers, or prices or that operate as trading platforms for security-based swaps, whether currently
or following full implementation of Title VII, could affect the availability of exemptions from
the registration requirements of the Securities Act for security-based swaps whose quotes are
publicly available on or through such trading platforms or national securities exchanges. 25
Currently, quote or price information on security-based swaps on or through trading platforms
used by security-based swap dealers may be available to the dealers’ clients or others at the
dealer’s discretion. Certain of these trading platforms, as well as others, may become registered
security-based SEFs, which may affect the platform’s ability to limit participant access to the
trading platforms and, therefore, may enable a variety of individuals or entities to view quotes on
such platforms.
We have previously taken action with respect to security-based swap transactions under
the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, and the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (“Trust Indenture
Act”) 26 while we sought input on the ways in which security-based swaps were transacted prior
to the enactment of Title VII and could be transacted following the full implementation of Title
VII, including through the use of trading platforms for security-based swaps. In July 2011, as a

25

See, e.g., Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act (formerly Section 4(2)) exempts transactions by an
issuer not involving any public offering from the registration requirements of Section 5 of the
Securities Act. 15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(2).

26

15 U.S.C. 77aaa et seq.

9

result of security-based swaps being included in the definition of “security” under the Securities
Act and the Exchange Act and thereby becoming subject to the provisions of those statutes and
the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to securities, we adopted interim final rules to
provide exemptions under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, and the Trust Indenture Act for
those security-based swaps that prior to July 16, 2011 (“Title VII effective date”) 27 were
“security-based swap agreements” and are defined as “securities” under the Securities Act and
the Exchange Act as of the Title VII effective date due solely to the provisions of Title VII
(collectively, the “interim final exemptions”). 28 The interim final exemptions exempt offers and
sales of security-based swap agreements that became security-based swaps on the Title VII
effective date from all provisions of the Securities Act, other than the Section 17(a) anti-fraud
provisions, as well as from the Exchange Act registration requirements and from the provisions

27

The provisions of Title VII generally were effective on July 16, 2011 (360 days after enactment
of the Dodd-Frank Act), unless a provision requires a rulemaking. If a Title VII provision
requires a rulemaking, it will go into effect not less than 60 days after publication of the related
final rule or on July 16, 2011, whichever is later. See Section 774 of the Dodd-Frank Act.

28

See Rule 240 under the Securities Act [17 CFR 230.240], Rules 12a-11 and Rule 12h-1(i) under
the Exchange Act [17 CFR 240.12a-11 and 17 CFR 240.12h-1], and Rule 4d-12 under the Trust
Indenture Act of 1939 (“Trust Indenture Act”) [17 CFR 260.4d-12]. See also Interim Final
Exemptions Adopting Release. The category of security-based swaps covered by the interim
final exemptions involves those that would have been defined as “security-based swap
agreements” prior to the enactment of Title VII. See Section 2A of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C.
77b(b)-1)] and Section 3A of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78c-1], each as in effect prior to the
Title VII effective date. For example, the vast majority of security-based swap transactions
involve single-name credit default swaps, which would have been “security-based swap
agreements” prior to the Title VII effective date. In contrast, the definition of “security-based
swap agreement” did not include security-based swaps that are based on or reference only loans
and indexes only of loans. The Division of Corporation Finance issued a no-action letter that
addressed the availability of the interim final exemptions to offers and sales of security-based
swaps that are based on or reference only loans or indexes only of loans. See Cleary Gottlieb
Steen & Hamilton LLP (Jul. 15, 2011). This no-action letter will remain in effect for so long as
the interim final exemptions remain in effect.

10

of the Trust Indenture Act, provided certain conditions are met. 29 We adopted amendments to
the interim final exemptions to extend the expiration dates in the interim final exemptions to
February 11, 2017. 30 If we adopt rules under this proposal, we may determine to alter the
expiration dates in the interim final exemptions as part of that rulemaking, including possibly
shortening the expiration dates in the interim final exemptions. 31
We adopted the interim final exemptions because, among other things, we were
concerned about disrupting the operation of the security-based swaps market while we evaluated
the implications for security-based swaps under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act as a
result of the inclusion of the term “security-based swap” in the definition of “security” for
purposes of those statutes. 32
At the time of adoption of the interim final exemptions in July 2011, we requested
comment on various aspects of the interim final exemptions. 33 In response to the request for

29

The security-based swap that is exempt must be a security-based swap agreement (as defined
prior to the Title VII effective date) and entered into between eligible contract participants (as
defined prior to the Title VII effective date). See Rule 240 under the Securities Act [17 CFR
230.240]. See also Interim Final Exemptions Adopting Release.

30

See Extension of Exemptions for Security-Based Swaps, Release No. 33-9545 (Feb. 5, 2014), 79
FR 7570 (Feb. 10, 2014).

31

We are requesting comment on whether to shorten or further extend the expiration dates in the
interim final exemptions.

32

Id. Prior to the Title VII effective date, security-based swap agreements that became securitybased swaps on the Title VII effective date were outside the scope of the federal securities laws,
other than the anti-fraud and certain other provisions. See Section 2A of the Securities Act [15
U.S.C. 77b(b)-1)] and Section 3A of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78c-1], each as in effect prior
to the Title VII effective date. Some market participants were concerned that because of the
different types of trading platforms being used to effect transactions in security-based swaps there
could be questions regarding the availability of exemptions under the Securities Act and the
Exchange Act.

33

See Interim Final Exemptions Adopting Release. The Commission also requested comment on
certain of these matters in an earlier proposing release regarding exemptions for security-based
swap transactions involving an eligible clearing agency. See Exemptions For Security-Based

11

comment, commenters expressed concerns regarding the availability of exemptions from the
registration requirements of the Securities Act, including the exemption in Section 4(a)(2), for
security-based swap transactions entered into solely between eligible contract participants due to
the operation of certain trading platforms and the publication or distribution of other information
regarding security-based swaps. 34 Commenters indicated that certain communications involving
security-based swaps, such as the publication or distribution of price quotes, may be available on
or through trading platforms on an unrestricted basis following the full implementation of Title
VII. 35 They were concerned that this unrestricted access could affect the availability of
exemptions from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, such as the exemption in
Section 4(a)(2), for such security-based swap transactions. 36 As we understand, currently such
communications generally are not available on the trading platforms on an unrestricted basis
because the trading platform operators and the security-based swap dealers have discretion over
authorizing participants to access trading platforms and to see quotes for security-based swaps
from the security-based swap dealers using such trading platforms. 37

Swaps Issued By Certain Clearing Agencies, Release No. 33-9222 (Jun. 9, 2011), 76 FR 34920
(Jun. 15, 2011) (“Cleared SBS Exemptions Proposing Release”).
34

See SIFMA/ISDA Letter and letter from Kenneth E. Bentsen, Jr., Executive Vice President,
Public Policy and Advocacy, SIFMA, dated Dec. 21, 2012 (“SIFMA Letter”). See also letter
from Richard M. Whiting, Executive Director and General Counsel, Financial Services
Roundtable, Robert Pickel, Chief Executive Officer, ISDA, and Kenneth E. Bentsen, Jr.,
Executive Vice President, Public Policy and Advocacy, SIFMA, dated Jan. 31, 2012
(“FSR/ISDA/SIFMA Letter”), and letter from Scott Pintoff, General Counsel, GFI Group Inc.,
dated Jul. 25, 2011 (“GFI Letter”). The FSR/ISDA/SIFMA Letter and GFI Letter were submitted
in response to our request for comment in the Cleared SBS Exemptions Proposing Release.

35

Id.

36

Id.

37

See SIFMA/ISDA Letter.

12

The publication or distribution of price quotes for security-based swaps that are traded or
processed on or through trading platforms could be viewed as offers of those security-based
swaps within the meaning of Section 2(3) of the Securities Act, 38 and such communications
would require compliance with the registration provisions of Section 5 of the Securities Act
unless there is an available exemption from such registration requirements. Further, such
communications also may be considered offers to persons who are not eligible contract
participants, even if such persons are not permitted to purchase the security-based swaps. Under
Section 5(e) of the Securities Act, it is unlawful to make offers or sales of security-based swaps
to persons who are not eligible contract participants unless the security-based swaps are
registered under the Securities Act. 39
The rule proposed in this release is intended to further the goal of Title VII to bring the
trading of security-based swaps onto regulated trading platforms and avoid unintended
consequences arising from the operation of security-based swap trading platforms, including
security-based SEFs and national securities exchanges, following the full implementation of Title
VII by permitting market participants to effect security-based swap transactions without concern
that price quotes on trading platforms made with respect to such security-based swap
transactions may implicate the registration requirements of the Securities Act. If there are no
Securities Act exemptions available with respect to a security-based swap transaction because
the publication or distribution of price quotes for the security-based swaps that are traded or
processed on or through trading platforms is viewed as an offer of such security-based swap,
including to persons who are not eligible contract participants, the required registration of such
38

See 15 U.S.C. 77b(3).

39

See footnote 8 above and accompanying text.

13

transactions could impede the operation of, and the trading of security-based swaps on or
through, these trading platforms. This, in turn, could potentially impede price discovery of
security-based swap transactions. Accordingly, we believe that the rule proposed in this release
is necessary to enable market participants to effect security-based swap transactions with eligible
contract participants in reliance on available exemptions from the registration requirements of
the Securities Act and avoid potential Securities Act violations for unregistered offers to persons
who are not eligible contract participants, and to assure that there are not unintended
consequences for the operation of security-based swap trading platforms following the full
implementation of Title VII.
In proposing this rule, we have considered comment letters received to date on the
interim final exemptions, including comment letters we received in response to the request for
comment in an earlier proposing release regarding exemptions for security-based swap
transactions involving an eligible clearing agency. 40 As noted above, some commenters
expressed concerns regarding the availability of exemptions from the registration requirements
of the Securities Act arising from the publication or distribution of price quotes for securitybased swaps that are traded on or processed on or through trading platforms. Some commenters
also expressed concern about the effect on the availability of Securities Act exemptions arising
from other published communications that they characterized as research, 41 but the comment
letters did not provide detail regarding the types of research materials that are distributed, the
manner in which such research materials are distributed, or the basis for characterizing such

40

See footnote 34 above and accompanying text.

41

See SIFMA/ISDA Letter and SIFMA Letter. These communications are discussed further below
in Section II in the discussion of the comments the Commission has received on the interim final
exemptions.

14

communications as research. We are requesting further comment regarding these matters. In
addition, while some commenters suggested broader exemptions for security-based swap
transactions entered into solely between eligible contract participants under the Securities Act,
the Exchange Act, and the Trust Indenture Act, they did not provide any specific examples of
why broader exemptions are necessary. Thus, at this time, we are proposing a Securities Act rule
that is tailored to address commenters’ identified concerns regarding the publication or
distribution of price quotes arising from the operation of trading platforms, rather than broader
exemptions under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, or the Trust Indenture Act. We are
requesting comment on whether or not we should take a different approach.
II.

DISCUSSION OF THE PROPOSED RULE
We are proposing Rule 135d under the Securities Act to provide that certain

communications involving security-based swaps that may be purchased only by eligible contract
participants will not be deemed for purposes of Section 5 of the Securities Act to constitute
offers of such security-based swaps or any guarantees of such security-based swaps that are
securities. Under the proposed rule, the publication or distribution of price quotes (“SBS price
quotes”) relating to security-based swaps 42 that may be purchased only by persons who are
eligible contract participants and are traded or processed on or through a facility that either is

42

The term “security-based swap” includes mixed swaps. A mixed swap is defined as a securitybased swap that also is based on the value of 1 or more interest or other rates, currencies,
commodities, instruments of indebtedness, indices, quantitative measures, other financial or
economic interest or property of any kind (other than a single security or a narrow-based security
index), or the occurrence, non-occurrence, or the extent of the occurrence of an event or
contingency associated with a potential financial, economic, or commercial consequence (other
than the occurrence, non-occurrence, or extent of the occurrence of an event relating to a single
issuer of a security or the issuers of securities in a narrow-based security index, provided that
such event directly affects the financial statements, financial condition, or financial obligations of
the issuer). See Section 3(a)(68)(D) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(68)(D)]. See also
Section IV of the Product Definitions Adopting Release.

15

registered as a national securities exchange or as a security-based SEF, or is exempt from
registration as a security-based SEF pursuant to a rule, regulation, or order of the Commission
(an “eligible trading platform”), would not be deemed to constitute an offer, an offer to sell, or a
solicitation of an offer to buy or purchase such security-based swaps or any guarantees of such
security-based swaps that are securities for purposes of Section 5 of the Securities Act.
The publication or distribution of SBS price quotes otherwise could be considered offers
of those securities within the meaning of Sections 2(3) and 5 of the Securities Act, including to
persons who are not eligible contract participants, if the SBS price quotes are available on an
unrestricted basis. If considered offers, the publication or distribution of SBS price quotes may
affect the availability of exemptions from the registration requirements of the Securities Act,
including the exemption in Section 4(a)(2), and may be offers of security-based swaps to noneligible contract participants. The proposed rule would allow such communications to be made
without being considered to be an offer for purposes of Section 5 of the Securities Act.
The proposed rule would apply to the initial publication or distribution of the SBS price
quotes on eligible trading platforms, as well as any subsequent republication or redistribution of
the SBS price quotes on or through mediums other than eligible trading platforms, including online information services. It is possible that participants in eligible trading platforms that receive
SBS price quotes could further disseminate the SBS price quotes without restriction. Because
we do not believe that the SBS price quotes should be considered offers for purposes of Section
5 of the Securities Act under the conditions in the proposed rule, we do not believe that the
treatment of such SBS price quotes under the proposed rule should depend on who publishes or
distributes the SBS price quotes or where the SBS price quotes are published or distributed, so

16

long as only persons who are eligible contract participants may purchase the securities that are
the subject of the SBS price quotes.
The proposed rule would apply to the publication or distribution of price quotes of
security-based swaps, including any guarantees of such security-based swaps that are securities.
Security-based swaps may be guaranteed to provide protection against a counterparty’s default.
A guarantee of a security is itself a security for purposes of the Securities Act. 43 As a result, the
publication or distribution of SBS price quotes also may be viewed as offers of any guarantees of
the security-based swaps that are the subject of the SBS price quotes. We believe that the
proposed rule should apply with respect to any guarantee of a security-based swap provided as
part of the security-based swap transaction. Because we believe that a guarantee of a securitybased swap is part of the security-based swap transaction, the proposed rule also would deem the
publication or distribution of SBS price quotes to not constitute an offer, an offer to sell, or a
solicitation of an offer to buy or purchase any guarantees of the security-based swaps that are the
subject of the SBS price quotes.
The proposed rule would apply with respect to SBS price quotes, which could take a
number of forms depending on the type of trading platform model, including indicative quotes,
executable quotes, bids and offers, and other pricing information and other types of quote
information that may develop in the future. We are not proposing to define the specific type of
SBS price quotes with respect to which the proposed rule would apply because we do not want to
limit the types of trading platform models that currently or may in the future exist. 44 This

43

See Section 2(a)(1) of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(1)].

44

According to commenters, the five trading platforms models discussed below represent broadly
the various types of models for the trading of security-based swaps in existence today. See
SIFMA/ISDA Letter. These examples may not represent every single method in existence today,

17

approach is intended to allow flexibility in the proposed rule as organized markets for the trading
of security-based swaps continue to develop, including following the full implementation of Title
VII.
The security-based swaps market currently is characterized by bilateral negotiation in the
over-the-counter market, is largely decentralized, and many instruments are not standardized. 45
The lack of uniform rules concerning the trading of security-based swaps and the one-to-one
nature of trade negotiation in the security-based swaps market has resulted in the formation of
distinct types of venues for the trading of these securities, such as single-dealer request for quote
platforms, aggregator-type platforms, multi-dealer request for quote platforms, limit order book
systems, and electronic brokering platforms. According to commenters, a single-dealer request
for quote platform is a trading platform on which a security-based swap dealer may post quotes
for security-based swaps transactions in various asset classes that the security-based swap dealer
is willing to trade. 46 These trading platforms currently require pre-clearance for access and are
accessible exclusively by the security-based swap dealers’ approved customers. When a
customer wishes to effect a security-based swap transaction, the customer requests a quote, the
security-based swap dealer provides one, and if the customer accepts the security-based swap
dealer’s quote, the transaction is executed electronically. 47
and the discussion below is intended to give an overview of the models without providing the
nuances of each particular type. As noted above, certain of these trading platforms may become
security-based SEFs following the full implementation of Title VII, but the particular
characteristics of trading platforms that security-based SEFs will be permitted to operate will not
be known until we adopt final rules implementing the statutory provisions of Title VII governing
the registration and regulation of security-based SEFs. See footnote 15 above and accompanying
text.
45

See SIFMA/ISDA Letter.

46

Id.

47

Id.

18

Commenters describe an aggregator-type platform as a trading platform that combines
two or more single-dealer request for quote platforms. 48 In these trading platforms, both the
aggregator and the security-based swap dealers currently must authorize participants to access
the platform and see quotes from the security-based swap dealers. Although a participant can
simultaneously view quotes from multiple security-based swap dealers, the participant can
request a quote from only one security-based swap dealer at a time. 49
Further, commenters describe a multi-dealer request for quote platform as a trading
platform on which participants can request a quote for a security-based swap transaction from
multiple security-based swap dealers at the same time. 50 The security-based swap dealers then
send quotes back to the participant, which the participant may choose to accept and execute.
Participants currently must be authorized by both the system operator and the security-based
swap dealers in order to request quotes from security-based swap dealers through a multiple
dealer request for quote platform. 51
According to commenters, a limit order book system is a trading platform on which firm
bids and offers are posted, on an anonymous basis, for all participants in the platform to see, and
bids and offers are then matched on price-time priority and other established parameters and
trades are executed accordingly. 52 The identities of the parties currently are withheld until a
transaction occurs. The bid and offers in a limit order book system are firm and all participants
48

Id.

49

Id.

50

Id.

51

Id.

52

Id. We understand that limit order book systems are not yet in operation for the trading of
security-based swaps in the United States but exist for the trading of security-based swaps in
Europe. Id.

19

in the platform currently can view these bids and offers before placing their own bids and
offers. 53
Finally, commenters described an electronic brokering platform as a trading platform on
which bids and offers are displayed. 54 All participants in the platform currently can enter bids
and offers, and observe others entering bids and offers. Unlike exchanges, security-based swap
electronic brokering platforms do not automatically match bids and offers in order to execute
trades. 55 Typically, once a buyer and seller express interest in a trade at the price posted on the
electronic trading platform, an inter-dealer broker would assist them in negotiating a final trade
over the telephone. 56
The proposed rule addresses price quotes relating to security-based swaps that are traded
or processed on or through registered or exempt security-based SEFs and national securities
exchanges because the Title VII provisions applicable to these entities, as well as existing
requirements applicable to national securities exchanges, require them to make their trading
platforms available or price quotes on their platforms available to all participants without
limitation. The proposed rule is intended to avoid unintended consequences for the operation of
these trading platforms following the full implementation of Title VII and to allow market
participants to continue to effect security-based swap transactions, including on or through these
trading platforms, in reliance on available exemptions from the registration requirements of the
Securities Act.

53

See SIFMA/ISDA Letter.

54

Id.

55

Id.

56

Id.

20

The proposed rule covers price quotes for security-based swaps and any guarantees of
such security-based swaps that may be purchased only by persons who are eligible contract
participants,. 57 We believe that the publication or distribution of price quotes for security-based
swaps that may only be purchased by eligible contract participants should not be considered
offers of such security-based swaps or any guarantees of such security-based swaps that are
securities, including to persons who are not eligible contract participants, for purposes of Section
5 of the Securities Act. The proposed rule is designed to permit security-based swap transactions
between eligible contract participants to continue to be able to rely on available exemptions from
the registration requirements of the Securities Act without unintended consequences for the
operation of security-based SEFs and national securities exchanges that post or trade securitybased swaps following the full implementation of Title VII. Security-based swaps that are not
registered under the Securities Act are permitted to be sold only to eligible contract participants,
and therefore we are limiting the proposed rule to the publication or distribution of price quotes
for security-based swaps that may be purchased only by eligible contract participants. 58 The
exemptions from the registration requirements of Section 5 of the Securities Act set forth in

57

These proposed provisions are intended to identify the types of security-based swaps for which
the publication or distribution of SBS price quotes would not be deemed under the proposed rule
to be offers for purposes of Section 5 of the Securities Act. Any transaction in security-based
swaps that are the subject of such SBS price quotes would have to be effected in compliance with
the Securities Act and nothing relating to such transactions would affect whether such SBS price
quotes when published or distributed were offers of such security-based swaps.

58

See footnote 8 above and accompanying text. A comment letter submitted in connection with the
SBS Cleared Exemptions Proposing Release suggested a simplified disclosure and registration
scheme for those security-based swaps transactions involving clearing agencies that may involve
persons who are not eligible contract participants. See letter from Bruce Bolander, Gibson, Dunn
& Crutcher LLP, dated Aug. 22, 2011. Commission staff is evaluating the feasibility of a
simplified disclosure and registration scheme for security-based swaps issued by registered or
exempt clearing agencies that may be offered and sold to persons who are not eligible contract
participants.

21

Sections 3 and 4 of the Securities Act are not available for security-based swap transactions that
involve persons who are not eligible contract participants. 59
We note that all security-based swap transactions entered into solely between eligible
contract participants will be subject to the comprehensive regulatory regime of Title VII once it
has been fully implemented, including security-based swap transaction reporting requirements,
trade acknowledgments and verification, and business conduct standards. 60 In particular, the
business conduct standards generally require, among other things, disclosure by security-based
swap dealers and major security-based swap participants to counterparties of (i) the material
risks and characteristics of the security-based swap, and certain clearing rights, (ii) the material
incentives or conflicts of interest that a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap
participant may have in connection with the security-based swap, and (iii) the daily mark of the
security-based swap. 61 The proposed business conduct rules, if adopted as proposed, also would
require security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants to verify that a
counterparty meets the eligibility requirements of an eligible contract participant. 62 The Title
VII regulatory regime will apply to security-based swaps transactions regardless of whether SBS
price quotes relating to such transactions are available on an unrestricted basis. As a result of the
other regulatory provisions of Title VII applicable to security-based swap transactions, we do not
59

See footnote 8 above and accompanying text.

60

See, e.g., Regulation SBSR – Reporting and Dissemination of Security-Based Swap Information,
Release No. 63346 (Nov. 19, 2010), 75 FR 75207 (Dec. 2, 2010); Trade Acknowledgment and
Verification of Security-Based Swap Transactions, Release No. 34-63727 (Jan. 14, 2011), 76 FR
3859 (Jan. 21, 2011); and Business Conduct Standards for Security-Based Swap Dealers and
Major Security-Based Swap Participants, Release No. 34-64766 (Jun. 29, 2011), 76 FR 42396
(Jul. 18, 2011) (“Business Conduct Standards Proposing Release”).

61

See Section 15F(h)(3)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78o-10(h)(3)(B)]. See also Business
Conduct Standards Proposing Release.

62

See Section 15F(h)(3)(A) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78o-10(h)(3)(A)]. See also Business
Conduct Standards Proposing Release.

22

believe that our approach in the proposed rule is inconsistent with the protection of investors.
While these Title VII protections apply to security-based swap transactions with any participant,
there are additional protections provided to non-eligible contract participants. In particular, noneligible contract participants may only purchase security-based swaps that are subject to an
effective registration statement. 63
We note that although the proposed rule provides that the publication or distribution of
SBS price quotes would not be deemed to be an offer for purposes of Section 5 of the Securities
Act, the proposed rule would not otherwise affect the provisions of any exemptions from the
registration requirements of the Securities Act. As a result, market participants would still need
to make a determination as to whether an exemption from the registration provisions of the
Securities Act is available with respect to a security-based swap transaction, including whether
such transaction complies with any applicable conditions of the exemption. Finally, we note that
because the proposed rule relates solely to the treatment of certain communications involving
SBS price quotes as offers for purposes of Section 5 of the Securities Act, the proposed rule does
not limit in any way the scope or applicability of the antifraud or other provisions of the federal
securities laws, including Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, relating to both oral and written
material misstatements and omissions in the offer and sale of securities, including security-based
swaps. 64
The proposed rule would apply to any communication of SBS quotes for security-based
swap transactions effected bilaterally in the over-the-counter market or on or through eligible
trading platforms, whether or not subsequently cleared in transactions involving an eligible
63

See footnote 8 above and accompanying text.

64

See 15 U.S.C. 77q(a).

23

clearing agency. 65 Following the full implementation of Title VII, security-based swap
transactions will be effected either in the over-the-counter market or on eligible trading
platforms, either voluntarily or because the transaction is subject to the mandatory trade
execution requirement. 66 These transactions subsequently may be cleared in transactions
involving an eligible clearing agency, either voluntarily or because the security-based swap is
subject to the mandatory clearing requirement. 67 Regardless of whether these transactions
subsequently are cleared in transactions involving an eligible clearing agency, the proposed rule
is needed so that the publication or distribution of SBS price quotes will not cause unintended
consequences for the operation of eligible trading platforms and the ability of market participants
to rely on available exemptions from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, or
require that such transactions be registered under the Securities Act because they are viewed as
offers to non-eligible contract participants.
We believe that the proposed rule is a measured response to commenters’ concerns and is
necessary or appropriate in the public interest. One of the goals of Title VII is to bring the
trading of security-based swaps onto regulated trading platforms, such as security-based SEFs
and national securities exchanges. The Title VII provisions applicable to security-based SEFs
and national securities exchanges, as well as existing requirements applicable to national

65

For security-based swap transactions involving an eligible clearing agency, the exemptions we
adopted under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, and the Trust Indenture Act would continue
to be available. See Rule 239 under the Securities Act [17 CFR 230.239], Rules 12a-10 and 12h1(h) under the Exchange Act [17 CFR 240.12a-10 and 240.12h-1(h)], and Rule 4d-11 under the
Trust Indenture Act of 1939 [17 CFR 260.4d-11]. See also Cleared SBS Exemptions Adopting
Release. These exemptions do not apply to security-based swap transactions not involving an
eligible clearing agency, even if the security-based swaps subsequently are cleared in transactions
involving an eligible clearing agency. Id.

66

See footnote 17 above and accompanying text.

67

See footnote 16 above and accompanying text.

24

securities exchanges, require these trading platforms to make their platforms available or price
quotes on their platforms available to all participants without limitation. If the publication or
distribution of SBS price quotes is unrestricted, no Securities Act exemptions may be available
with respect to transactions in the security-based swaps that are the subject of the SBS price
quotes because such communications may be viewed as an offer of those security-based swaps,
including to persons who are not eligible contract participants. The required registration of such
transactions could have unintended consequences affecting the operation of and the trading of
security-based swaps on or through these trading platforms, as well as the ability of market
participants to effect security-based swap transactions bilaterally or on or through these trading
platforms. For example, security-based swap dealers may not engage in security-based swap
transactions if the dissemination of price quotes for security-based swaps on these trading
platforms could jeopardize the availability of exemptions from the registration requirements of
the Securities Act. Such action could affect the number of price quotes for and the liquidity of
certain types of security-based swaps, which could have a detrimental effect on the liquidity and
price discovery of security-based swap transactions. Accordingly, we believe the proposed rule
is needed so that the publication or distribution of SBS price quotes will not cause unintended
consequences for the operation of eligible trading platforms, affect the ability of market
participants to rely on available exemptions from the registration requirements of the Securities
Act, or require that such transactions be registered under the Securities Act because they are
viewed as offers to non-eligible contract participants.
We also believe that the proposed rule is consistent with the protection of investors. The
proposed rule covers price quotes for security-based swaps and any guarantees of such securitybased swaps that may be purchased only by persons who are eligible contract participants. Title

25

VII provides that security-based swaps not registered under the Securities Act can only be sold to
eligible contract participants. 68 In addition, the proposed rule relates solely to the treatment of
certain communications involving SBS price quotes as offers for purposes of Section 5 of the
Securities Act and would preserve the other protections of the federal securities laws, including
our ability to pursue an antifraud action in the offer and sale of the securities under Section 17(a)
of the Securities Act. Treating the publication or distribution of SBS price quotes as not being
offers would not harm non-eligible contract participants because they will not be able to
purchase such security-based swaps. The additional protections of the federal securities laws
requiring the registration of offers and sales of security-based swaps that non-eligible contract
participants may purchase would continue to apply to security-based swap transactions involving
non-eligible contract participants.
Further, as a result of the regulatory provisions of Title VII applicable to security-based
swap transactions, security-based swap transactions entered into solely between eligible contract
participants would be subject to the comprehensive regulatory regime of Title VII once it has
been fully implemented, regardless of whether SBS price quotes relating to such security-based
swap transactions are available on an unrestricted basis. The proposed rule also would enable
security-based swap dealers to disseminate price quotes for security-based swaps on eligible
trading platforms on an unrestricted basis without concern that such dissemination could
jeopardize the availability of exemptions from the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
Unrestricted access to these price quotes on eligible trading platforms would provide increased
market transparency by providing all investors with the same information on the pricing of
security-based swap transactions. Therefore, based on the foregoing, we believe that the
68

See footnote 8 above.

26

proposed rule is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, and consistent with the protection
of investors.
We received three comment letters regarding the interim final exemptions. 69 One
commenter opposed any exemptions for security-based swaps, including the interim final
exemptions, but did not provide any explanation for the reason. 70 The other two commenters
supported the interim final exemptions and stated their view that the interim final exemptions
were necessary and appropriate steps to prevent disruption of the security-based swaps market
and to ensure the orderly implementation of Title VII. 71 These commenters stated that securitybased swap dealers may publish or distribute reports that they characterize as research that may
be broadly disseminated and could be available on an unrestricted basis, which these commenters
believed could affect the availability of exemptions from the registration requirements of the
Securities Act for transactions involving the security-based swaps that are the subject of such
reports. 72 These commenters also provided an overview of the security-based swaps market as it
functions today and how it may function following the full implementation of Title VII. 73 These
commenters indicated that the security-based swaps market currently functions as an ongoing
series of bilateral trades between eligible contract participants. 74 Participants in the securitybased swaps market primarily consist of security-based swap dealers, banks, large corporations,
69

See SIFMA/ISDA Letter, SIFMA Letter, and letter from Tom Nappi, dated Jul. 14, 2011 (“Nappi
Letter”).

70

See Nappi Letter.

71

See SIFMA/ISDA Letter and SIFMA Letter.

72

Id. SIFMA believes that these communications would be within the definition of “research
report” contained in Rules 137(e), 138(d), and 139(d) under the Securities Act but would not
satisfy the terms of those safe harbor provisions because of the nature of the security-based swap
transactions. See SIFMA Letter.

73

See SIFMA/ISDA Letter.

74

Id.

27

insurance companies, asset managers, hedge funds, and other investment vehicles. 75 Although
individuals can qualify as eligible contract participants, 76 these commenters indicated that the
security-based swaps market is institutional in nature and in practice only a small number of
participants are natural persons (generally high net worth individuals). 77
As discussed above, some commenters expressed concerns regarding the availability of
exemptions from the registration requirements of the Securities Act for security-based swap
transactions entered into solely between eligible contract participants due to the operation of
security-based swap trading platforms and the publication or distribution of other information
regarding security-based swaps. 78 Based on these commenters’ concerns regarding the
availability of exemptions from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, these
commenters requested that we adopt permanent relief from the registration requirements of
Section 5 of the Securities Act for offers and sales of security-based swaps 79 solely between

75

See footnote 7 above for a discussion of the eligible contract participant definition.

76

An individual can qualify as an eligible contract participants if such individual has amounts
invested on a discretionary basis, the aggregate of which is in excess of (i) $10,000,000 or (ii)
$5,000,000, provided such individual also enters into the agreement, contract, or transaction in
order to manage the risk associated with an asset owned or liability incurred, or reasonably likely
to be owned or incurred, by such individual. See Section 1a(18)(A)(xi) of the Commodity
Exchange Act.

77

See SIFMA/ISDA Letter.

78

See SIFMA/ISDA Letter and SIFMA Letter. For example, these commenters stated, “In light of
the nature of the [security-based swaps] market discussed above, we request that the Commission
provide for relief from the Securities Act registration requirement. Although we believe the
sophisticated nature of [ECPs] in the [security-based swaps] market and the usual manner in
which transactions in this market are conducted today, and will in the future be conducted on
[security-based SEFs], qualify these transactions for the section 4[(a)](2) exemption from
registration under the Securities Act for any transaction by an issuer ‘not involving any public
offering,’ there may be questions as to whether the full range of [security-based swaps]
transactions, as described above, qualify for this exemption.” See SIFMA/ISDA Letter.

79

The category of security-based swaps that would be covered by this request for relief is broader in
some ways than the category of security-based swaps covered by the interim final exemptions.
As noted in footnote 28 above, the interim final exemptions apply to security-based swaps that

28

eligible contract participants. 80 They believed that this relief is needed to avoid market
disruption that could result from market participants having to determine whether exemptions
from the registration requirements of the Securities Act are available due to the unrestricted
availability of certain communications on security-based swap trading platforms following the
full implementation of Title VII. Further, these commenters also requested relief under the
Exchange Act for offers and sales of security-based swaps solely between eligible contract
participants. They were concerned that ambiguity regarding the definition of a “class” as applied
to security-based swaps could raise concerns regarding the registration requirements of Section
12(g) of the Exchange Act. 81 Finally, these commenters requested relief from Section 304(d) of
the Trust Indenture Act for security-based swaps entered into solely between eligible contract
participants. They believed that the protections of the Trust Indenture Act are not necessary in
the context of such transactions because such transactions involve contracts between two
counterparties who are capable of enforcing obligations under the security-based swaps
directly. 82
Although not submitted in connection with the interim final exemptions, we received two
comment letters from four commenters regarding the proposed exemptions for security-based
swap transactions involving an eligible clearing agency discussing issues arising with respect to
were defined as “security-based swap agreements” prior to the Title VII effective date. That
definition of “security-based swap agreement” did not include security-based swaps that are
based on or reference only loans and indexes only of loans. See footnote 28 above.
80

See SIFMA/ISDA Letter and SIFMA Letter. These commenters limited their request for relief to
security-based swap transactions not involving an eligible clearing agency. Id. As noted above,
we adopted exemptions under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, and the Trust Indenture Act
for security-based swap transactions involving an eligible clearing agency. See footnote 65
above.

81

See SIFMA/ISDA Letter.

82

Id.

29

security-based swap transactions not involving an eligible clearing agency. 83 One commenter
suggested that we provide permanent exemptions under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act,
and the Trust Indenture Act for security-based swap transactions entered into between eligible
contract participants and effected through any trading platform similar to the proposed
exemptions for security-based swap transactions involving an eligible clearing agency. 84 The
other commenters suggested that we provide exemptions under Section 12(g) of the Exchange
Act and the Trust Indenture Act for security-based swap transactions entered into solely between
eligible contract participants similar to the proposed exemptions for security-based swap
transactions involving an eligible clearing agency. 85
Commenters have requested broad exemptions under the Securities Act, the Exchange
Act, and the Trust Indenture Act for security-based swap transactions not involving an eligible
clearing agency that are entered into solely between eligible contract participants. We are not
proposing such exemptions because commenters’ primary concern appears to relate to the impact
of certain communications involving security-based swaps made on or through trading platforms
on the availability of exemptions from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, such as
the exemption in Section 4(a)(2). We believe that the proposed rule under the Securities Act is
appropriately tailored to address commenters’ identified concerns regarding the availability of

83

See FSR/ISDA/SIFMA Letter and GFI Letter. These letters were submitted in response to our
request for comment in the Cleared SBS Exemptions Proposing Release.

84

See GFI Letter. This commenter did not provide any explanation as to why such exemption was
needed, including how security-based swap trading platforms operate, that would enable us to
evaluate whether relief is necessary or appropriate. See Cleared SBS Exemptions Adopting
Release.

85

See FSR/ISDA/SIFMA Letter. These commenters requested relief under the Exchange Act and
the Trust Indenture Act, but did not request relief under the Securities Act. However, two of
these commenters subsequently submitted the SIFMA/ISDA Letter to request relief under the
Securities Act. See footnote 80 above and accompanying text.

30

exemptions from the registration requirements of the Securities Act for offers and sales of
security-based swaps solely between eligible contract participants. Therefore, we are not
proposing a broad-based Securities Act exemption at this time.
With respect to the commenters that raised concerns regarding the effect of publication of
communications regarding security-based swaps that they characterized as research, one of these
commenters noted that security-based swap dealers and their affiliates produce these
communications generally about credit default swaps and provide them to their existing and
prospective clients. 86 This commenter stated that such written communications are prepared
either by fundamental credit analysts, who may use credit default swaps as one expression of a
particular issuer’s credit risk in comparison to the outstanding debt securities of that issuer or
another issuer, or credit strategists, who may also use credit default swaps to compare relative
credit risk between different issuers. 87 This commenter also stated that these written
communications may contain statements that could theoretically be construed as offers to sell the
security-based swaps mentioned in such reports within the meaning of Section 2(3) of the
Securities Act. 88
Although we are not proposing to include these other written communications involving
security-based swaps within the scope of the proposed rule, we are considering whether a
broader exclusion from the definition of offer than simply for SBS price quotes would be
appropriate as part of this rulemaking. A commenter requested broader relief for security-based
swap communications, but it did not provide us with sufficient information to understand why a

86

See SIFMA Letter.

87

Id.

88

Id.

31

broader treatment would be necessary. For example, the commenter only addressed one type of
security-based swap – credit default swaps. The commenter also did not provide sufficient
information about the types and contents of such communications, the distribution methods and
restrictions for such communications, or the basis for characterizing such communications as
research in order for us to evaluate the appropriate treatment of such communications. Further,
the commenter did not explain whether security-based swap dealers engage in security-based
swap transactions with their existing or prospective clients who receive or access such
communications. In this regard, we note that the examples of such communications provided by
the commenter appear to include buy/sell recommendations with respect to certain securitybased swaps. 89 If the security-based swap dealers are entering into transactions involving such
security-based swaps, such communications may be issuer offering materials rather than
research. In order for us to analyze whether a broader exclusion from the definition of offer than
simply for SBS price quotes would be appropriate as part of this rulemaking, we believe that we
need additional information about such communications. We are requesting additional comment
below regarding such communications.
We also do not believe that a broad-based exemption from Section 12(g) of the Exchange
Act is needed at this time. Commenters have identified two scenarios that could raise questions
regarding whether a type of security-based swap would be a “class” for purposes of Section

89

Id. Commenters provided the following examples: “We continue to recommend buying
[XYZCo] 5-year [credit default swaps] vs. selling [ABCCo] 5 year [credit default swaps]”;
“Market technicals could drive spreads tighter from here but we would consider buying
protection in the low 300 bps area”; “We’d recommend buying [JKLCo]sub [credit default
swaps] at 267bp and selling [TUVCo] sub at 215bp, paying 52bp”; and “We’d also recommend
buying [JKLCo] senior [credit default swaps] versus [TUVCo] senior, paying just 11bp.” Id.

32

12(g). 90 The scenarios identified by commenters are based on several assumptions regarding
how the security-based swaps market will develop following the full implementation of Title
VII. Given that Title VII has not been fully implemented and we do not know how the securitybased swaps market will develop following the full implementation of Title VII, we do not
believe that there is sufficient information at this time to propose a broad-based exemption from
Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act. In addition, it is not clear why the protections of the
Exchange Act, including periodic reporting and information about the security-based swap on an
ongoing basis would not be needed, especially given the counterparty risk involved in securitybased swap transactions and the risks relating to the security-based swap itself. Moreover,
issuers of security-based swaps that are security-based swap dealers or major security-based
swap participants or their affiliates are likely to be subject to the reporting requirements of the
Exchange Act and would be able to satisfy their periodic reporting obligations even if securitybased swaps became subject to such reporting requirements. 91
Finally, we do not believe that a broad-based exemption from Section 304(d) of the Trust
Indenture Act is needed at this time. Commenters based their request for relief under the Trust
90

Commenters identified two scenarios involving “security-based swaps that would be similar to
one another as a result of the standardized ISDA documentation that may set the majority of
terms of the security-based swap. First, although a type of security-based swap may be cleared
by a derivatives clearing agency generally, a particular security-based swap would not be cleared
in the event that one of the counterparties to the security-based swap qualifies for, and elects to
take advantage of, the end user exception to mandatory clearing. Second, it is theoretically
possible that the Commission could designate a security-based swap for mandatory clearing
because of its level of standardization, but the security-based swap may not be cleared because
there is not a clearing agency that is willing to accept the security-based swap for clearing.” See
FSR/ISDA/SIFMA Letter.

91

For an issuer of security-based swaps that is not subject to the reporting requirements of the
Exchange Act, the JOBS Act’s increase in the threshold number of record holders triggering
registration of a class of equity security under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act to 2,000 persons
or 500 persons who are not accredited investors at the end of the relevant fiscal year reduces the
likelihood of such issuer triggering such registration requirements. See Section 12(g)(1)(A) of
the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78l(g)(1)(A)].

33

Indenture Act on the rationale we provided in the Interim Final Exemptions Adopting Release to
support our determination to adopt an interim final rule providing an exemption from Section
304(d) of the Trust Indenture Act. However, we note that the Trust Indenture Act provides an
exemption for any security offered and sold in a transaction that is exempt from the registration
requirements of the Securities Act under Section 4 of the Securities Act, such as the exemption
set forth in Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act. 92 As a result, unregistered security-based swap
transactions effected in reliance on the exemption in Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act
generally are exempt from the indenture qualification provisions of the Trust Indenture.
Moreover, the broad exemptions requested by commenters would result in all securitybased swap transactions entered into solely between eligible contract participants being exempt
from most provisions of the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, and the Trust Indenture Act. Title
VII included security-based swaps in the definition of “security” under the Securities Act and the
Exchange Act, thereby making security-based swap transactions subject to the provisions of the
Securities Act and the Exchange Act, including the rules and regulations thereunder, applicable
to “securities.” Further, no other derivative securities that are traded in the over-the-counter
market, including derivative securities that are entered into bilaterally and then subsequently
cleared, have broad-based exemptions from those provisions. 93 We currently are not persuaded
that we should treat security-based swaps differently from other derivative securities.
Request for Comment

92

See Section 304 of the Trust Indenture Act [15 U.S.C. 77ddd].

93

Unlike other derivative securities, Title VII amended Section 5 of the Securities Act to prohibit
offers or sales of security-based swaps to persons who are not eligible contract participants unless
the security-based swaps are registered under the Securities Act. See footnote 8 above.

34

1. Should we provide that the publication or distribution of SBS price quotes will not be
deemed to constitute an offer, an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy or
purchase the security-based swaps that are the subject of the SBS price quotes or any
guarantees of such security-based swaps that are securities for purposes of Section 5 of
the Securities Act? Why or why not? Should we take a different approach?
2. The proposed rule would apply to the initial publication or distribution of SBS price
quotes on eligible trading platforms, as well as any subsequent republication or
redistribution of the SBS price quotes on or through mediums other than eligible trading
platforms, including on-line information services. Should the proposed rule cover the
subsequent dissemination of SBS price quotes on mediums other than eligible trading
platforms or by any participant through any means? Or should the proposed rule be
limited in any way with respect to such subsequent dissemination? Why or why not?
3. The proposed rule would apply to the security-based swaps that are the subject of the
SBS price quotes and any guarantees of such security-based swaps that are securities.
Should the proposed rule apply to guarantees of such security-based swaps? Why or why
not? Are there other securities that are part of a security-based swap transaction to which
the proposed rule also should apply?
4. What types of price quotes for security-based swaps are disseminated on or through
eligible trading platforms and how are they disseminated? Would the proposed rule
facilitate the dissemination of quotes for security-based swaps on eligible trading
platforms? Would the proposed rule need to be modified in any way to facilitate the
dissemination of such quotes? How do eligible trading platform participants receive or
gain access to such quotes?

35

5. The proposed rule covers price quotes for security-based swaps and any guarantees of
such security-based swaps that may be purchased only by persons who are eligible
contract participants. This proposed provision is intended to identify the types of
security-based swaps for which the publication or distribution of SBS price quotes would
not be deemed under the proposed rule to be offers for purposes of Section 5 of the
Securities Act. Is this identifying characteristic appropriate? Why or why not? Do we
need to provide more specificity about this identifying characteristic? Are there
additional or different identifying characteristics that we should consider? If so, why?
6. The proposed rule addresses price quotes relating to security-based swaps that are traded
or processed on or through security-based SEFs and national securities exchanges.
Should the types of trading platforms covered by the proposed rule be limited to securitybased SEFs and national securities exchanges? Why or why not? Are there other
security-based swap trading platforms that should be covered by the proposed rule? If so,
why? For example, will security-based swaps, such as mixed swaps, be traded or
processed on or through swap execution facilities that are not registered either as a
national securities exchange or as a security-based swap execution facility, or are not
exempt from such registration?
7. Are price quotes for security-based swaps initially published or distributed through
mediums other than eligible trading platforms? For example, we understand that
currently some security-based swap dealers disseminate price quotes for security-based
swaps by sending messages via Bloomberg. If so, how are those price quotes
disseminated through these other mediums? How do market participants receive or gain
access to those price quotes? Are those price quotes available on an unrestricted basis?

36

Should the proposed rule also apply to those price quotes or similar communications?
Why or why not?
8. The proposed rule would apply to SBS price quotes. Should the proposed rule apply to
these types of communications? Why or why not? We are not proposing to include a
definition of SBS price quotes in order to allow flexibility in the proposed rule as trading
platforms for the trading of security-based swaps continue to develop. Should we define
these types of communications? If so, how?
9. (a) Should we specify that other types of written communications, such as
communications that have been called research, regarding security-based swaps,
would not be considered offers for purposes of Section 5 of the Securities Act? If so,
why? Please describe in detail what other types of communications should be
covered by the rule. What characteristics do such communications have that would
distinguish them from being offers of the security-based swaps that are discussed in
such communications? If we should not treat such communications as offers for
purposes of Section 5 of the Securities Act, what conditions should apply to the use of
such communications?
(b) What specific types of information, opinions, and recommendations are included in
such communications regarding the security-based swaps and the underlying
reference issuers and/or securities? Do such communications include strategies for
buying or selling security-based swaps? Are such communications related to
industries, entities, or particular offerings of security-based swaps? Do such
communications involve security-based swaps other than credit default swaps? Do
such communications include information, opinions, or recommendations with

37

respect to securities other than security-based swaps or an analysis of securities other
than security-based swaps? Are such communications similar to or different from the
research reports contemplated by Rules 137, 138 and 139 of the Securities Act?
Please explain in detail. If different or if such communications regarding the
security-based swaps and the underlying reference issuers and/or securities do not
satisfy the conditions of Rules 137, 138 or 139 of the Securities Act, please explain in
detail why such communications should be treated differently from other
communications under the Securities Act.
(c) With respect to communications that some commenters call research, what is the
basis for characterizing those communications as research? Do security-based swap
dealers enter into transactions involving the security-based swaps that are the subject
of the communications they publish or distribute? If so, why would the securitybased swap dealers not be the issuers of such security-based swaps for purposes of the
Securities Act? If security-based swap dealers are the issuers of such security-based
swaps, why should the offering communications contained in those communications
not be considered issuer offering materials?
(d) How are the communications disseminated and to whom are they made available?
Are there any restrictions on who may access these communications? Can noneligible contract participants access these communications?
(e) Should we consider alternative approaches to address the commenters’ concerns
regarding the use of communications that the commenters characterize as research?
For example, should we consider a rule that would provide as follows: A securitybased swap dealer’s publication or distribution of a written communication that

38

includes information, opinions, or recommendations with respect to security-based
swaps or an analysis of security-based swaps would be considered for purposes of
Section 5 of the Securities Act not to constitute an offer of such security-based swaps
or any guarantees of such security-based swaps that are securities if such written
communication (i) does not include strategies for buying or selling security-based
swaps and (ii) is included in an issuer-specific or industry research report that also
includes information, opinions, or recommendations with respect to or an analysis of
different types of securities other than only security-based swaps? Are there other
alternative approaches that we should consider that may address the commenters’
concerns regarding the effect that the publication or distribution of the
communication may have on the availability of an exemption from the registration
requirements of the Securities Act? If so, please provide detailed explanations.
10. Are there other types of communications involving security-based swaps to which the
proposed rule also should apply? If so, explain in detail the types of communications,
how are they disseminated, who publishes or distributes the communications, whether
any person enters into a security-based swap transaction as a result of such
communication, and why the proposed rule should apply.
11. We are not proposing broad-based exemptions under the Securities Act, the Exchange
Act, and the Trust Indenture Act for security-based swap transactions entered into solely
between eligible contract participants. Rather, to address commenters concerns regarding
the availability of exemptions from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, we
are proposing a rule under the Securities Act to provide that certain communications
involving SBS price quotes would not be deemed to constitute offers of the security-

39

based swaps that are the subject of the SBS price quotes or any guarantees of such
security-based swaps that are securities. Would the proposed rule address commenters’
concerns regarding the availability of exemptions from the registration requirements of
the Securities Act? Why or why not? Should we take a different approach such as
providing a broad-based exemption as suggested by some commenters? Would the
broad-based exemptions requested by commenters be necessary or appropriate if the
proposed rule were adopted? Would such a broad-based exemption materially affect the
type and level of disclosures available to eligible contract participants entering into
security-based swap transactions? Are there any other impediments arising from the
application of the registration provisions of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and
the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act to security-based swap transactions following
the expiration or withdrawal of the interim final exemptions? How should we address
those impediments and what are the economic implications? Would it be appropriate, in
light of the inclusion of security-based swaps in the definition of security, to treat
security-based swaps differently, including with respect to disclosures, from other
derivative securities traded in the over-the-counter market, which do not have broadbased exemptions under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, and the Trust Indenture
Act?
12. Which counterparty in a non-cleared security-based swap transaction should be
considered to have the obligation to comply with the registration requirements of the
Exchange Act applicable to classes of securities? Should we address this issue at this
time? Why or why not?

40

13. If we adopt the rule under this proposal, we may also determine to alter the expiration
dates in the interim final exemptions as part of that rulemaking. If we make such a
determination, should we consider whether to shorten or further extend beyond the
effective date of the rule that we may adopt under this proposal the expiration dates of the
exemptions in the interim final exemptions? If so, why?
III.

GENERAL REQUEST FOR COMMENT
We request and encourage any interested person to submit comments regarding the

proposed rule, specific issues discussed in this release, and other matters that may have an effect
on the proposed rule. With regard to any comments, we note that such comments are of
particular assistance to our rulemaking initiative if accompanied by supporting data and analysis
of the issues addressed in those comments.
IV.

ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
We are proposing a rule under the Securities Act to provide that certain communications

involving security-based swaps that may be purchased only by eligible contract participants
would not be deemed for purposes of Section 5 of the Securities Act to constitute offers of such
security-based swaps or any guarantees of such security-based swaps that are securities. Under
the proposed rule, the publication or distribution of SBS price quotes related to securities-based
swaps that may be purchased only by persons who are eligible contract participants and are
traded or processed on or through a trading system or platform that is registered either as a
national securities exchange or a security-based SEF, or is exempt from registration as a
security-based SEF, would not be deemed to constitute an offer, an offer to sell, or a solicitation
of an offer to buy or purchase the security-based swaps that are the subject of the SBS price

41

quotes or any guarantees of such security-based swaps that are securities for purposes of Section
5 of the Securities Act.
We are sensitive to the economic consequences and effects, including costs and benefits,
of our rules. The discussion below addresses the potential economic consequences and effects of
the proposed rule and alternatives, including the costs and benefits, as well as the potential
effects on efficiency, competition, and capital formation. 94
The proposed rule does not itself establish the scope or nature of the substantive
requirements that will be imposed on security-based swaps following the full implementation of
Title VII or their related costs and benefits. We anticipate that the rules implementing the
substantive requirements under Title VII, including the requirements relating to the registration
and regulation of security-based SEFs and external business conduct standards for security-based
swap dealers and major security-based swap participants, will be subject to their own economic
analysis, 95 and we have not yet adopted final rules that would fully implement Title VII and
subject security-based swaps to such substantive requirements. The costs and benefits described
below therefore are those that may arise in connection with the proposed rule.
A.

Baseline

To assess the economic impact of the proposed rule, we are using as our baseline the
regulation of security-based swaps as it exists at the time of this proposal, taking into account
applicable rules adopted by the Commission, including interim final exemptions affecting
security-based swaps under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. Our analysis incorporates
94

Section 2(b) of the Securities Act requires that the Commission, when engaging in rulemaking
that requires it to consider whether an action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, to
also consider whether the action will promote efficiency, competition, and capital formation. 15
U.S.C. 77b(b). We have integrated our consideration of these issues into this economic analysis.

95

See footnotes 15 and 60 above and accompanying text.

42

the statutory and regulatory provisions that currently govern security-based swaps under the
federal securities laws.
As part of the economic analysis of the cross-border adopting release, we provided an
extensive description of the current security-based swaps market, including a detailed analysis of
the participants in the security-based swaps market and the levels of security-based swap trading
activity. 96 While the proposing release here addresses only a narrow piece of the security-based
swaps market, and we discuss the specific baseline for this proposal below, we note that the
additional information about the overall security-based swaps market in the cross-border
adopting release may provide additional context for the discussion below. In particular, we
noted in the cross-border adopting release that the participation in one significant part of the
security-based swaps market – single-name credit default swaps – entailed thousands of
counterparties to transactions, but with much of the activity concentrated among a relatively
small number of dealer entities. The notional size of the single-name credit default swaps market
is in the trillions of dollars annually, corresponding to hundreds of thousands of individual
transactions, and with approximately 80% of transactions between dealers. Among the nondealer market participants, private funds are the largest constituent group followed by DoddFrank Act-defined special entities and investment companies registered under the Investment
Company Act of 1940. More broadly, the analysis shows that although the dollar volume of
transactions in security-based swaps market is large, it does not span a large set of market
participants as compared to other securities markets.

96

See Application of “Security-Based Swap Dealer” and “Major Security-Based Swap Participant”
Definitions to Cross-Border Security-Based Swap Activities, Release No. 34-72472 (June 25,
2014), 79 FR 47277 (Aug. 12, 2014) (“Cross-Border Adopting Release”).

43

Prior to the enactment of Title VII, certain security-based swaps – specifically those
security-based swaps that are within the definition of “security-based swap agreement” as in
effect prior to the Title VII effective date – were outside the scope of the federal securities laws,
other than the anti-fraud and certain other provisions. 97 Up until that time, transactions involving
these types of security-based swaps were effected without concerns about complying with the
registration requirements of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, or the indenture provisions
of the Trust Indenture Act.
Title VII amended the Securities Act and the Exchange Act to include “security-based
swaps” in the definition of “security” for purposes of those statutes. 98 As a result, on the Title
VII effective date “security-based swaps” became subject to the provisions of the Securities Act
and the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder applicable to “securities.” The Securities Act
requires that any offer and sale of a security must be either registered under the Securities Act or
made pursuant to an exemption from registration. 99 As a result, market participants entering into
security-based swap transactions must either be able to rely on an available exemption from the
registration requirements of the Securities Act or register such transactions under the Securities
Act. In addition, certain provisions of the Exchange Act relating to the registration of classes of
securities and the indenture qualification provisions of the Trust Indenture Act also may apply to
certain types of security-based swaps. The provisions of Section 12 of the Exchange Act,
97

See Section 2A of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. 77b(b)-1)] and Section 3A of the Exchange Act
[15 U.S.C. 78c-1], each as in effect prior to the Title VII effective date. The definition of
“security-based swap agreement” included the definition of “swap agreement,” which required
that the agreement, contract or transaction be “subject to individual negotiation” and be between
eligible contract participants.

98

See Sections 761(a)(2) and 768(a)(1) of the Dodd-Frank Act (amending Section 3(a)(10) of the
Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(10)] and Section 2(a)(1) of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C.
77b(a)(1)], respectively).

99

See Section 5 of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. 77e].

44

without an exemption, require that security-based swaps be registered before a transaction could
be effected on a national securities exchange. 100 In addition, registration of a class of securitybased swaps under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act could be required if the security-based
swap is considered an equity security and held of record by either 2,000 persons or 500 persons
who are not accredited investors at the end of the relevant fiscal year. 101 Further, without an
exemption, the Trust Indenture Act could require qualification of an indenture for security-based
swaps considered to be debt. 102
As noted above, 103 we adopted interim final exemptions that provide exemptions under
the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, and the Trust Indenture Act for those security-based swaps
that would have been defined as “security-based swap agreements” prior to the Title VII
effective date provided certain conditions are met. The interim final exemptions exempt offers
and sales of security-based swap agreements that became security-based swaps on the Title VII
effective date from all provisions of the Securities Act, other than the Section 17(a) anti-fraud
provisions, as well as from the Exchange Act registration requirements and from the provisions
of the Trust Indenture Act, provided that the transactions are entered into solely between eligible
contract participants. Currently, certain market participants may rely on the interim final
exemptions to continue to enter into security-based swap transactions as they did prior to the
Title VII effective date without concern they would have to comply with the provisions of the

100

See Section 12(a) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78l(a)].

101

See Section 12(g)(1)(A) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78l(g)(1)(A)].

102

See 15 U.S.C. 77aaa et seq.

103

See footnote 28 above and accompanying text. See also footnote 30 above and accompanying
text.

45

Securities Act, the registration provisions of the Exchange Act applicable to a class of securitybased swaps, or the indenture provisions of the Trust Indenture Act.
The interim final exemptions are not available, however, for transactions involving all
security-based swaps. The security-based swaps covered by the interim final exemptions are
only those that would have been “security-based swap agreements” prior to the Title VII
effective date, which is a narrower category of security-based swaps than under Title VII. 104 In
addition, the persons who may enter into security-based swaps covered by the interim final
exemptions may be different from those entering into “security-based swap agreements” prior to
the Title VII effective date because the definition of “eligible contract participant” under Title
VII is narrower than the pre-Title VII definition. 105 Any security-based swap transaction that
cannot rely on the interim final exemptions would have to rely on another available exemption
from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, such as the exemption in Section
4(a)(2), or would have to be registered under the Securities Act. However, no Securities Act
exemptions are available with respect to security-based swap transactions involving persons who
are not eligible contract participants because Title VII amended the Securities Act to require that
all offers and sales of security-based swaps to non-eligible contract participants must be
registered under the Securities Act. 106
104

See Section 3(a)(68) of the Exchange Act for the definition of “security-based swap.” 15 U.S.C.
78c(a)(68). See footnote 28 above regarding the definition of “security-based swap agreement.”

105

The amendments to the definition of “eligible contract participant” increased the dollar threshold
for certain persons and, with respect to natural persons, replaced a “total assets” test with an
“amounts invested on a discretionary basis” test. See Section 1a(12) of the Commodity Exchange
Act [7 U.S.C. 1a(12)], as in effect prior to the Title VII effective date, and Section 1(a)(18) of the
Commodity Exchange Act, as re-designated and amended by Section 721 of the Dodd-Frank Act.
The definition of the term “eligible contract participant” in the Securities Act and in the Exchange
Act refers to the definition of “eligible contract participant” in the Commodity Exchange Act.
See footnote 7 above.

106

See footnote 8 above and accompanying text.

46

The interim final exemptions are self-executing and as such are available without any
action by the Commission or its staff. As a result, market participants must make their own
determinations as to whether such exemptions are available with respect to a particular securitybased swap transaction. Given that such exemptions are self-executing, we do not have any data
or other quantifiable information regarding the use of such exemptions, including which market
participants are effecting transactions in reliance on such exemptions or the number of
transactions effected in reliance on such exemptions.
We adopted the interim final exemptions because, among other things, we were
concerned about disrupting the operation of the security-based swaps market while we evaluated
the implications for security-based swaps under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act as a
result of the inclusion of the term “security-based swap” in the definition of “security” for
purposes of those statutes. 107 At the time of the adoption of the interim final exemptions, we
requested comment on various aspects of the interim final exemptions. In response, commenters
raised concerns regarding the effect that certain communications involving security-based swaps,
such as the publication or distribution of SBS price quotes, that may be available on or through
trading platforms on an unrestricted basis, could have on the availability of exemptions under the
Securities Act, including the exemption in Section 4(a)(2). 108 We subsequently extended the
expiration date of the interim final exemptions to February 11, 2017. 109
If we do not adopt the proposed rule or take other action, the interim final rules will
expire on February 11, 2017, and the baseline at that stage would be different from the current

107

See footnote 32 above and accompanying text.

108

See footnote 34 above and accompanying text.

109

See footnote 30 above and accompanying text.

47

baseline. Rather than attempt to define an additional, speculative, baseline for that scenario, we
have addressed and analyzed it in the discussion of alternatives below.
B.

Analysis of the Proposed Rule

We have considered the comments we received and engaged in an initial evaluation of
the implications for security-based swaps as securities under the Securities Act and the Exchange
Act. Based on these actions, we are proposing a rule under the Securities Act so that market
participants may effect security-based swap transactions with eligible contract participants in
reliance on available exemptions from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and
avoid potential Securities Act violations for unregistered offers to persons who are not eligible
contract participants, and so that there are not unintended consequences for the operation of
security-based swap trading platforms following the full implementation of Title VII. Under the
proposed rule, certain communications involving security-based swaps would not be considered
“offers” for purposes of Section 5 of the Securities Act. However, unlike the current interim
final exemptions, the proposed rule is not itself an exemption from the registration requirements
of the Securities Act; the proposed rule would deem certain communications as not constituting
offers. As a result, while the types of communications covered by the proposed rule would not
be considered offers, market participants engaging in any security-based swap transaction would
have to either satisfy the conditions of existing exemptions under the Securities Act, such as the
exemption in Section 4(a)(2), or register such transactions under the Securities Act.
The proposed rule would apply to all security-based swaps and not only those defined as
“security-based swap agreements.” As we previously noted, security-based swaps are transacted
through hundreds of thousands of individual transactions annually, but because the available
registration exemptions are self-executing, we do not know what fraction of market participants
that engage in these transactions currently rely on the interim final exemptions when entering
48

into security-based swap transactions as opposed to other exemptions from registration under the
Securities Act, such as the exemption in Section 4(a)(2). 110 For transactions involving securitybased swaps that do not satisfy the conditions of the interim final exemptions, the proposed rule
would assist market participants in evaluating how they should analyze certain communications
that may affect their transactions. In particular, market participants would be able to conduct
their analysis regarding the availability of exemptions from the registration requirements of the
Securities Act without concern that certain communications would impact the availability of
such exemptions.
The proposed rule would be self-executing in that the publication or distribution of SBS
price quotes would be treated as not constituting an offer to buy or purchase the security-based
swaps that are the subject of the SBS price quotes or any guarantees of such security-based
swaps that are securities for purposes of Section 5 of the Securities Act without any action by the
Commission or its staff. Because the proposed rule would be self-executing, the only cost of
being able to rely on the proposed rule would be to determine its applicability. In addition, the
proposed rule would not create any new filing, reporting, recordkeeping, or disclosure reporting
requirements for any market participants.
Treating the types of communications covered by the proposed rule as not constituting
offers would have minimal economic consequences or effects on the ability of market

110

Given that these exemptions, including the exemption in Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act are
self-executing, we do not have any data or other quantifiable information regarding the number of
market participants that may be effecting security-based swap transactions in reliance on these
exemptions, including the exemption in Section 4(a)(2). However, we believe that a significant
portion of market participants engaging in these transactions are eligible to rely on the interim
final exemptions because the vast majority of security-based swap transactions involve singlename credit default swaps, which would have been “security-based swap agreements” prior to the
Title VII effective date. See footnotes 103 and 104 above and accompanying text.

49

participants to enter into security-based swap transactions compared with the baseline. 111 For
example, as compared to the baseline, the proposed rule would not affect the ability of market
participants to enter into security-based swap transactions in reliance on available exemptions
under the Securities Act, such as the exemption in Section 4(a)(2). While the interim final
exemptions have limited conditions, 112 which differ from the conditions of the exemption under
Section 4(a)(2) (including with respect to the communications that are the subject of the
proposed rule), some security-based swap transactions engaged in after the Title VII effective
date may have been effected in reliance on Section 4(a)(2) rather than the interim final
exemptions. Further, the protections that currently exist under the interim final exemptions and
under Section 4(a)(2) would still apply. For example, the interim final exemptions do not apply
to the antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws, including Section 17(a) of the Securities
Act.
The proposed rule would not impose new requirements on market participants. Further,
because the proposed rule would be available with respect to any security-based swap transaction
involving an eligible contract participant, we do not believe that the proposed rule would impair
competition between the different types of trading venues and methods that differ in their level
and existence of public SBS price quotes. Moreover, we believe that the proposed rule would
further the goal of Title VII to bring the trading of security-based swaps onto regulated trading

111

The economic consequences and effects of the proposed rule are deemed minimal because of the
baseline, which takes into account the interim final exemptions and the fact that Title VII has not
been fully implemented. Once the interim final rules expire or otherwise terminate, the economic
consequences and effects of the proposed rule would be as discussed under “Alternatives
Considered” below.

112

See footnotes 104 and 105 above and accompanying text. In that regard we note, for example,
that security-based swaps based on single loans would not be within the definition of “securitybased swap agreement” in effect prior to the Title VII effective date.

50

platforms, which should help further the objective of greater transparency and a more
competitive environment for the trading of security-based swaps. As a result, we believe that
increased transparency and competitiveness in the security-based swaps market could help lower
transactions costs associated with market participant hedging (risk mitigating) strategies and
thereby lower the cost of capital and facilitate the capital formation process.
We believe that the costs associated with providing that the publication or distribution of
SBS price quotes are not deemed to be offers to persons who are not eligible contract participants
are minimal. The proposed rule would not impose additional costs on market participants to
determine the eligible contract participant status of a person. 113 In addition, persons who are not
eligible contract participants would not be permitted to purchase any security-based swaps whose
price quotes are within the scope of the proposed rule and the Securities Act registration
requirements would continue to apply to security-based swaps transactions involving such noneligible contract participants. As a result of these limitations, the exclusion of the SBS price
quotes from being deemed offers should not increase the potential for unlawful sales of securitybased swaps to non-eligible contract participants.
We recognize that a consequence of the proposed rule may be that fewer offers and sales
of security-based swaps may be registered under the Securities Act (with the consequent
unavailability of certain remedies) to the extent that parties enter into such transactions in
reliance on exemptions that may not otherwise be available if the publication or distribution of
SBS price quotes were considered to be an offer for purposes of Section 5 of the Securities Act.
113

The determination of whether a person is an eligible contract participant is part of the proposed
Title VII business conduct rules that, if adopted as proposed, would require that security-based
swap dealers and major security-based swap participants verify the eligible contract participant
eligibility of their security-based swap counterparties. See footnote 62 above and accompanying
text.

51

A registration statement or prospectus supplement covering the offer and sale of the securities in
security-based swap transactions may provide certain information about the market participants,
the security-based swap contract terms, and the identification of the particular reference
securities, issuers, or loans underlying the security-based swaps. Further, while an investor
would be able to pursue an antifraud action in connection with the purchase and sale of the
securities in these security-based swap transactions under Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act, an
investor would not be able to pursue civil remedies under Section 11 or 12(a)(2) of the Securities
Act because the offer and sale of the securities in these security-based swap transactions would
not be registered under the Securities Act. In addition, an investor may be limited in its ability to
pursue civil remedies under Section 12(a)(1) of the Securities Act because the publication or
distribution of quotes for security-based swaps would not be deemed to be an offer for purposes
of Section 5 of the Securities Act. We could still pursue an antifraud action in the offer and sale
of the securities in these security-based swap transactions under Section 17(a) of the Securities
Act.
We note, however, that although the proposed rule would mean that a registration
statement under the Securities Act may not be required for these transactions, the business
conduct standards provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act would, among other things, require, upon
implementation, that certain disclosures be made to certain eligible contract participants. 114
Those would include (i) the material risks and characteristics of the security-based swap, and
certain clearing rights, (ii) the material incentives or conflicts of interest that a security-based
swap dealer or major security-based swap participant may have in connection with the security-

114

See footnote 61 above and accompanying text.

52

based swap, and (iii) the daily mark of the security-based swap. 115 The Commission has
proposed rules to implement the business conduct standards provisions of the Dodd-Frank
Act. 116 For instance, under the proposed business conduct standards rules, the required
disclosure of the daily mark would consist of, for a cleared security-based swap, providing
counterparties with the daily end-of-day settlement price received by the security-based swap
dealer or major security-based swap participant from the appropriate clearing agency, and, for an
uncleared security-based swap, the midpoint between the bid and offer prices for a particular
security-based swap, or the calculated equivalent of the midpoint as of the close of business. 117
While the information proposed to be conveyed in the daily mark is not equivalent to that in a
registration statement, we believe it could provide a counterparty with a useful and meaningful
reference point against which to assess, among other things, the calculation of variation margin
for a security-based swap or portfolio of security-based swaps, and otherwise inform the
counterparty’s understanding of its financial relationship with the security-based swap dealer or
major security-based swap participant. Moreover, because under the proposed business conduct
standards rules security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants would be
required to provide the same valuation to all of their counterparties, and because counterparties
could interact with multiple security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap
participants, counterparties would have greater confidence of equal treatment as they would have
the ability to observe when valuations differ among security-based swap dealers and major
security-based swap participants.

115

Id.

116

See Business Conduct Standards Proposing Release.

117

Id.

53

As noted above, to the extent that a security-based swap transaction does not meet the
conditions of the interim final exemptions, the counterparties to such transaction likely are
effecting the transaction in reliance on an available exemption from the registration requirements
of the Securities Act, such as the exemption set forth in Section 4(a)(2). The proposed rule
would benefit these counterparties because they could conduct their analysis regarding the
availability of an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act without
concern that the publication or distribution of SBS price quotes for the security-based swap that
is the subject of the transaction may compromise the availability of an exemption. The proposed
rule also would benefit these counterparties by providing that the publication or distribution of
SBS price quotes would not be deemed to be an offer of the security-based swaps that are the
subject of such SBS price quotes to persons who are not eligible contract participants. As noted
above, no exemptions from the registration requirements of the Securities Act are available with
respect to offers of security-based swaps to persons who are not eligible contract participants.
As a result, without the proposed rule, these counterparties would be required to register the
transaction and incur the costs associated with such registration if the publication or distribution
of SBS price quotes were viewed as offers of the related security-based swaps to persons who are
not eligible contract participants.
C.

Alternatives Considered
1.

Alternative of Not Proposing a Rule at This Time

One alternative to the proposed rule that we considered was to take no action at this time
to address issues arising under the Securities Act for certain communications involving securitybased swaps. This alternative would affect all security-based swap transactions, including those
currently relying on the interim final exemptions. At this time, all security-based swap
transactions either have to be registered under the Securities Act or rely on another available
54

exemption from registration, such as the exemption in Section 4(a)(2) or the interim final
exemptions to the extent available. If we take no action at this time with respect to the treatment
of certain communications involving security-based swaps, the publication or distribution of SBS
price quotes could be deemed to constitute an offer, an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to
buy or purchase the security-based swaps that are the subject of such communications or any
guarantees of such security-based swaps that are securities for purposes of Section 5 of the
Securities Act, including to persons who are not eligible contract participants. If considered
offers, such communications could affect the availability of exemptions from the registration
requirements of the Securities Act for transactions involving the security-based swaps that are
the subject of such communications or any guarantees of such security-based swaps that are
securities. If no Securities Act exemptions are available with respect to a security-based swap
transaction because such communications are viewed as an offer of the security-based swaps that
are the subject of such communications, including to persons who are not eligible contract
participants, such transactions would have to be registered under the Securities Act. The
economic consequences and effects of not proposing a rule under the Securities Act addressing
the treatment of SBS price quotes are discussed below.
We believe that taking no action could disrupt and impose unnecessary costs on this
segment of the security-based swaps market because it would mean that uncertainty may remain
as to whether certain communications involving SBS price quotes would be deemed to be offers
for purposes of Section 5 of the Securities Act. If considered offers, these communications could
affect the availability of exemptions under the Securities Act, including the exemption in Section
4(a)(2). The proposed rule would allow SBS price quotes to be published or distributed without
the risk that such communications would be considered offers for purposes of Section 5 of the

55

Securities Act. Without the proposed rule, the risk that the communications would be deemed
offers might lead some market participants either to not engage in these security-based swap
transactions, which could impede the market, or to register the offer and sale of the securitybased swap transactions, which could increase costs for market participants.
We believe the proposed rule would facilitate capital formation and promote efficiency
by lowering the costs of security-based swap transactions relative to what would be required
without the proposed rule in the event the interim final exemptions expire. Without the proposed
rule and following the expiration of the interim final exemptions, we believe that the operation of
the registration provisions of the Securities Act could have unintended consequences for the
operation of security-based swap trading platforms and the ability of market participants to enter
into these security-based swap transactions in reliance on available exemptions from the
registration requirements of the Securities Act following the full implementation of Title VII.
Following the expiration of the interim final exemptions, we anticipate that the proposed rule
would facilitate a more efficient market place for these security-based swap transactions.
Without the proposed rule, a market participant may choose not to continue to participate
in these types of transactions if compliance with the registration requirements of the Securities
Act is required. This could curtail the use of trading platforms and venues that make use of
broad communications methods that involve the public dissemination of SBS price quotes. As
noted above, one of the goals of Title VII is to bring the trading of security-based swaps onto
regulated trading platforms. The Securities Act registration costs could limit the incentive for
market participants to engage in security-based swaps transactions on regulated trading platforms
if the dissemination of price quotes for security-based swaps could jeopardize the availability of
exemptions from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, including the exemption in

56

Section 4(a)(2). In response to the lack of an available exemption from registration, some
market participants may also seek to restructure their operations to minimize their transactions
in, or contact with, the United States in an effort to avoid having to register these transactions
under the Securities Act. If market participants were to determine not to engage in securitybased swap transactions due to the lack of an available exemption from registration, or to
restructure their operations and thus avoid U.S. exposure because of the lack of such an
exemption, such actions could affect the number of price quotes for, and the liquidity of, certain
types of security-based swaps, which could have a detrimental effect on the liquidity and price
discovery of security-based swap transactions. This effect would be inconsistent with the
increased transparency tenets central to Title VII.
If market participants continue to engage in these security-based swap transactions
without the proposed rule and register these transactions under the Securities Act, costs would be
associated with such registration. Additionally, there is unlikely to be a commensurate benefit to
registration given that the investors typically in greater need of the investor protections provided
by registration are likely not to be eligible contract participants, and therefore ineligible to
purchase any security-based swaps whose price quotes are within the scope of the proposed rule.
While the use of a shelf registration statement may be available to some participants and would
lessen the costs of registration compared to the costs for participants who were not able to use a
shelf registration statement, there would be costs in either scenario. 118 Certain market

118

Certain market participants could reduce the registration burden by using the Form S-3
registration statement for their securities offerings. We previously have estimated that 50 or
fewer entities ultimately may have to register with us as security-based swap dealers. See CrossBorder Adopting Release. These entities (or their affiliates) are likely to be seasoned or wellknown seasoned issuers that are eligible to use the Form S-3 registration statement for their
securities offerings. In particular, these entities (or their affiliates) are likely to have a Form S-3
shelf registration statement that is effective under the Securities Act. A shelf registration

57

participants that are unable to register an offering under the Securities Act using a shelf
registration statement may be at a competitive disadvantage because they would not be able to
realize the reduced costs of shelf registration.
2.

Other Alternatives

Although at this time we are not proposing to include within the scope of the proposed
rule certain other communications involving security-based swaps that commenters have
indicated are included in research reports, we are considering whether a broader exclusion from
the definition of offer than simply for SBS price quotes would be appropriate as part of this
rulemaking. Currently, we do not have sufficient information to evaluate the appropriate
treatment of such communications. For example, commenters did not define or explain the
contours of what would constitute “research” and why an exclusion for such communications is
necessary. We are concerned that if it were defined or applied too broadly, it would include
information indistinguishable from traditional issuer offering materials and may not be the
appropriate subject of an exclusion from the definition of offer. As with any other
communication that may be an offer of securities subject to Section 5 of the Securities Act, we
would evaluate a research report within the security-based swaps market as we would evaluate
statement covers the offer and sale of securities that are not necessarily to be sold in a single
offering immediately upon effectiveness; instead, the securities are typically sold in a number of
“takedowns” over a period of time or on a continuous basis. A shelf registration statement allows
issuers to conduct multiple types and amounts of securities offerings using the same registration
statement. If these entities (or their affiliates) are required to register the offer and sale of the
securities in security-based swap transactions, they would likely use their shelf registration
statements for the offerings. For takedowns off their shelf registration statements, an entity (or its
affiliate) would file a prospectus supplement under the Securities Act that contains the specific
terms of the offering. As a result of the shelf registration procedure, these entities (including their
affiliates) would incur lower costs relating to the takedown for each security-based swap
transaction than they would otherwise incur if they had to use a non-shelf registration statement
for the security-based swap transactions. While the use of a shelf registration statement would
reduce the registration burden for qualifying market participants, it may not be available to all
market participants.

58

research reports in similar securities markets, including privately offered equity, debt, security
options, or other security derivatives. Therefore, we are requesting additional comment
regarding such communications. Based on the information we receive, we may or may not take
action with respect to such communications under the Securities Act.
We are asking a number of questions regarding the treatment of communications
involving security-based swaps contained in research reports. Among the questions we are
asking is whether we should we consider a rule that would provide as follows: A security-based
swap dealer’s publication or distribution of a written communication that includes information,
opinions, or recommendations with respect to security-based swaps or an analysis of securitybased swaps would be considered for purposes of Section 5 of the Securities Act not to constitute
an offer of such security-based swaps or any guarantees of such security-based swaps that are
securities if such written communication (i) does not include strategies for buying or selling
security-based swaps and (ii) is included in an issuer-specific or industry research report that also
includes information, opinions, or recommendations with respect to or an analysis of different
types of securities other than only security-based swaps?
If we determine to treat certain communications involving security-based swaps
considered to be research reports as not constituting offers, there could be economic
consequences and effects, including effects on efficiency, competition, and capital formation.
Some of these consequences and effects would be the same as discussed above with respect to
the treatment of SBS price quotes under the proposed rule. For example, under the baseline,
these communications are not taken into account in determining the availability of an exemption
from Securities Act registration for those security-based swap transactions satisfying the
conditions of the interim final rules. Further, upon expiration of the interim final rules, such

59

communications would have to be analyzed to determine if they constituted an offer of securitybased swaps and, if so, whether the registration requirements of the Securities Act were
implicated or if there was an available exemption from such requirements. If such
communications constituted offers of security-based swaps, it may affect the availability of
exemptions from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, and the dealer or its affiliate
may not be able to use such communications to find customers to act as counterparties in
security-based swap transactions with the dealer or its affiliate to the extent it seeks to rely on
such exemptions. As a result, treating such communications as not constituting offers may
promote efficiency by assisting dealers and their affiliates in finding customers and also by
assisting investors in engaging in potential transactions.
However, we note that research by dealers or their affiliates on security-based swaps
could be used by their clients to enter into transactions with them that differ from other types of
securities transactions. In particular, and unlike an equity or debt security, a security-based swap
could entail an ongoing financial commitment (economic exposure) between the dealer (or its
affiliate making the recommendation) and the client, who must be an eligible contract
participant, whereby a client loss could result in a dealer gain of equal measure. The dealer (or
its affiliate) would, at least initially, take the opposite economic exposure as the client who is
otherwise informed on their transaction decision by the dealer or its affiliate’s research. In these
instances, when the recommending entity also takes the opposite economic exposure of the client
who is basing their investment decision on the recommendation, the research may not be
considered independent.
We have requested comment regarding the costs, benefits and effects of such
communications, including whether and how many security-based swap transactions are entered

60

into as a result of such communications, and whether such transactions are entered into with the
entity publishing the research reports or its affiliate.
D.

Request for Comment

We request comment on all aspects of this economic analysis, including the costs and
benefits associated with the proposed rule. We also request comment on the potential effects the
proposed rule may have on efficiency, competition, and capital formation. We seek estimates of
these costs, benefits, and effects, as well as any costs, benefits, and effects not already identified
herein. Commenters should provide analysis and empirical data to support their views on the
costs, benefits, and effects associated with the proposed rule.
We also request comment on all aspects of our discussion regarding the number of
entities that may be required to register as security-based swap dealers and their ability to use the
shelf registration procedure to register the offer and sale of securities in a security-based swap
transaction, including the costs of such registration.
Finally, we request comment on all aspects of our discussion regarding the possible
approach with respect to certain communications involving security-based swaps that
commenters have indicated are included in research reports, including the potential costs and
benefits of such approach and the potential effects such approach may have on efficiency,
competition, and capital formation. In particular, would the economic consequences and effects
of such a rule, as well as the potential effects of such a rule on efficiency, competition, and
capital formation, be similar to those discussed above with respect to the treatment of SBS price
quotes under the proposed rule? If not, how would they differ and why? We seek estimates of
these costs, benefits, and effects, as well as any costs, benefits, and effects not already identified

61

herein. Commenters should provide analysis and empirical data to support their views on the
costs, benefits, and effects associated with such approach.
V.

PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT
The proposed rule would do not impose any new “collections of information” within the

meaning of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (“PRA”), 119 nor would it create any new
filing, reporting, recordkeeping, or disclosure reporting requirements. Accordingly, we are not
submitting the proposed rule to the Office of Management and Budget for review in accordance
with the PRA. 120 We request comment on whether our conclusion that there are no collections
of information is correct.
VI.

CONSIDERATION OF IMPACT ON THE ECONOMY
Under the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, 121 a rule is

considered “major” where, if adopted, it results or is likely to result in: (i) an annual effect on
the economy of $100 million or more (either in the form of an increase or a decrease); (ii) a
major increase in costs or prices for consumers or individual industries; or (iii) significant
adverse effect on competition, investment, or innovation. We request comment on the potential
impact of the proposed rule on the economy on an annual basis, any potential increase in costs or
prices for consumers or individual industries, and any potential effect on competition,
investment, or innovation. Commenters are requested to provide empirical data and other factual
support for their view to the extent possible.
VII.

REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY ACT CERTIFICATION

119

44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.

120

44 U.S.C. 3507(d) and 5 CFR 1320.11.

121

Pub. L. No. 104-121, 110 Stat. 857 (1996) (codified in various sections of 5 U.S.C., 15 U.S.C.
and as a note to 5 U.S.C. 601).

62

The Regulatory Flexibility Act (“RFA”) 122 requires the Commission, in promulgating
rules, to consider the impact of those rules on small entities. Section 603(a) 123 of the
Administrative Procedure Act, 124 as amended by the RFA, generally requires the Commission to
undertake a regulatory flexibility analysis of all proposed rules to determine the impact of such
rulemaking on “small entities.” Section 605(b) of the RFA states that this requirement shall not
apply to any proposed rule which, if adopted, would not have a significant economic impact on a
substantial number of small entities. 125
We are proposing a rule under the Securities Act to provide that certain communications
involving security-based swaps that may be purchased only by eligible contract participants
would not be deemed for purposes of Section 5 of the Securities Act to constitute offers of such
security-based swaps or any guarantees of such security-based swaps that are securities. Under
the proposed rule, the publication or distribution of price quotes relating to security-based swaps
that may be purchased only by persons who are eligible contract participants and are traded or
processed on or through a facility that either is registered as a national securities exchange or as a
security-based swap execution facility, or is exempt from registration as a security-based swap
execution facility pursuant to a rule, regulation, or order of the Commission, would not be
deemed to constitute an offer, an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy or purchase such
security-based swaps or any guarantees of such security-based swaps that are securities for
purposes of Section 5 of the Securities Act.

122

5 U.S.C. 601 et seq.

123

5 U.S.C. 603(a).

124

5 U.S.C. 551 et seq.

125

See 5 U.S.C. 605(b).

63

For purposes of the RFA, under our rules, an issuer, other than an investment company, is
a “small business” or “small organization” if it has total assets of $5 million or less as of the end
of its most recent fiscal year and is engaged or proposing to engage in an offering of securities
which does not exceed $5 million. 126 Based on our understanding of the security-based swaps
market, including our existing information about participants in the security-based swaps market,
we believe that the proposed rule would apply to few, if any, small entities. 127 For this reason,
we do not believe that the proposed rule would have a significant economic impact on a
substantial number of small entities. We encourage written comments regarding this
certification.
VIII. STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND TEXT OF THE PROPOSED RULE
The rule described in this release is being proposed under the authority set forth in
Sections 5, 19, and 28 of the Securities Act.
List of Subjects in 17 CFR Part 230
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Securities.
126

See Rule 157 under the Securities Act [17 CFR 230.157].

127

As noted above, we previously have estimated that 50 or fewer entities ultimately may have to
register with us as security-based swap dealers. See footnote 118 above and accompanying text.
We believe that these entities generally would be major banks or other large financial market
participants, which would not be small entities for purposes of the RFA. See Cross-Border
Adopting Release. These entities account for the vast majority of the transactions in the securitybased swaps market as measured on a notional basis. For example, according to an analysis
regarding the market for single-name credit default swaps performed by our Division of
Economic and Risk Analysis (then Division of Risk, Strategy, and Financial Innovation), these
entities account for approximately 94 percent of the transactions in the single-name credit default
swaps market as measured on a notional basis. See Information regarding activities and positions
of participants in the single-name credit default swap market (Mar. 15, 2012), which is available
at http://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-39-10/s73910-154.pdf. According to data published by the
Bank for International Settlements, single-name credit default swaps comprise approximately 94
percent of the total security-based swaps market as measured on a notional basis. See
Semiannual OTC derivatives statistics at end-June 2012, Table 19: Amounts outstanding of overthe-counter (OTC) derivatives, which is available at
http://www.bis.org/statistics/otcder/dt1920a.pdf.

64

TEXT OF THE PROPOSED RULE
For the reasons set out above, we are proposing to amend Title 17, Chapter II of the Code
of Federal Regulations as follows:
PART 230 – GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
1.

The authority citation for Part 230 continues to read, in part, as follows:

Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77b, 77b note, 77c, 77d, 77d note, 77f, 77g, 77h, 77j, 77r, 77s, 77z3, 77sss, 78c, 78d, 78j, 78l, 78m, 78n, 78o, 78o-7 note, 78t, 78w, 78ll(d), 78mm, 80a-8, 80a-24,
80a-28, 80a-29, 80a-30, and 80a-37, and Pub. L. 112-106, sec. 201(a), 126 Stat. 313 (2012),
unless otherwise noted.
*****
2.

Section 230.135d is added to read as follows:

§ 230.135d Certain communications involving security-based swaps.
For the purposes only of Section 5 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77e), the publication or
distribution of quotes relating to security-based swaps that may be purchased only by persons
who are eligible contract participants (as defined in Section 1a(18) of the Commodity Exchange
Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(18))) and are traded or processed on or through a trading system or platform
that either is registered as a national securities exchange under Section 6(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78f(a)) or as a security-based swap execution facility under
Section 3D(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c-4(a)), or is exempt from
registration as a security-based swap execution facility under Section 3D(a) of the Securities

65

Exchange Act of 1934 pursuant to a rule, regulation, or order of the Commission, shall not be
deemed to constitute an offer, an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy or purchase such
security-based swaps or any guarantees of such security-based swap that are securities.
By the Commission.

Kevin M. O’Neill
Deputy Secretary
September 8, 2014

66

