UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 9690 / December 16, 2014
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 73851 / December 16, 2014
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 31378 / December 16, 2014
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-16318
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASEAND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 8A OF
THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933,
SECTIONS 15(b) AND 21C OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934, AND SECTION 9(b)
OF THE INVESTMENT
COMPANY ACT OF 1940, AND
NOTICE OF HEARING

In the Matter of
MICHAEL W. CROW,
ALEXANDRE S. CLUG,
AURUM MINING, LLC,
PANAM TERRA, INC.,
and THE CORSAIR GROUP,
INC.,
Respondents.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate
and in the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be,
and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities
Act”), Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”),
and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”),
against Michael W. Crow (“Crow”), Alexandre S. Clug (“Clug”), Aurum Mining, LLC
(“Aurum”), PanAm Terra, Inc. (“PanAm”), and The Corsair Group, Inc. (“Corsair”)
(collectively “Respondents”).

II.
After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement alleges that:
A.

RESPONDENTS

1.
Crow, age 55, was a resident of Miami, Florida, and Lima, Peru during the
relevant period. Until early 2014, Crow was a principal and manager of Aurum, a
privately-held company that purported to own and operate gold mines in Brazil and Peru.
Together with Clug, Crow also owned and controlled Corsair, an entity that purported to
provide consulting services to businesses. Crow also participated in the management of
PanAm, a public company whose stock was registered with the Commission, though he has
been barred since 1998 from serving or acting as an officer or director of a public company.
In 2008, Crow was also barred from associating with any broker, dealer or investment
adviser. In 2010, Crow filed for personal bankruptcy.
2.
Clug, age 46, was a resident of Miami, Florida and Lima, Peru during the
relevant period. Clug is a principal and manager of Aurum and, together with Crow,
owned and controlled Corsair. Clug served as PanAm’s CEO and Chairman of the Board
from at least April 2011 until July 2012, when he resigned as CEO but remained as
Chairman. Clug did not hold any securities industry licenses during the relevant period.
3.
Aurum is a Nevada limited liability company established in April 2011,
with its principal place of business in Miami, Florida. Crow and Clug each owned 50% of
Aurum’s voting shares during the relevant period. Crow and Clug served as managers of
Aurum. Aurum was not registered with the Commission in any capacity during the relevant
period.
4.
PanAm is a Nevada corporation with its principal place of business in
Miami, Florida. Formerly known as Duncan Technology Group, PanAm evolved from
an entity which existed since 2001. In April 2011, it was renamed “PanAm Terra, Inc.,”
and registered its common stock with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
Exchange Act. PanAm deregistered its common stock in May 2013.
5.
Corsair is a Florida corporation incorporated in April 2011 with its
principal place of business in Miami, Florida. Corsair was owned and controlled by Crow
and Clug. Corsair was not registered with the Commission in any capacity during the
relevant period.
B.

OTHER RELEVANT INDIVIDUALS AND ENTITIES

6.
Aurum Mining Peru, S.A. (“Aurum Peru”) is a Peruvian subsidiary of
Aurum based in Lima, Peru. Crow and Clug controlled the finances and operations of
Aurum Peru during the relevant period. Aurum Peru received more than $2 million dollars
in proceeds from Aurum investors.

2

7.
Arthom Participacoes, Ltda. (“Arthom”) was a Brazilian entity owned or
controlled by two individuals located in Brazil during the relevant period.
8.
Batalha Mineradora, Ltda. (“Batalha JV”) was a joint venture operation
between Aurum and Arthom for the acquisition and operation of a piece of mineral property
in Brazil called Batalha.
9.
ABS Manager, LLC (“ABS”) is a limited liability company formed in
Arizona in 2009, with its principal place of business in La Jolla, California.
C.

FACTS
Crow is Enjoined and Barred for his Previous Violative Conduct

10.
On September 24, 1996, the Commission filed an action alleging, among
other things, that Crow, as President and Chairman of the Board of Wilshire Technologies,
Inc. (“Wilshire”), a public company, caused Wilshire to materially overstate its earnings
through various fraudulent schemes and also that Crow engaged in insider trading. SEC v.
Crow, 96-cv-1661 (S.D. Cal.).
11.
On April 16, 1998, the District Court for the Southern District of California
entered a judgment that: (1) permanently enjoined Crow from violating Section 17(a) of the
Securities Act and Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act
and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-13, 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 thereunder; (2) ordered Crow to
disgorge $1,248,444 plus prejudgment interest of $225,773, with the judgment satisfied by
the resolution of a related securities class action lawsuit; and (3) stated that Crow “is
permanently barred from acting as an officer or director of any issuer[.]” Crow consented
to the entry of the judgment without admitting or denying the allegations.
12.
The Commission then issued an order, with Crow’s consent, denying Crow
the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant. Michael
W. Crow, Exchange Act Rel. No. 39902 (Apr. 22, 1998).
13.
On May 15, 2007, the Commission filed a second action against Crow,
alleging, among other things, that Crow acted as an unregistered principal of Duncan
Capital LLC, a registered broker-dealer, in violation of Section 15(a) of the Exchange Act.
SEC v. Crow, 07-cv-3814 (S.D.N.Y.).
14.
On November 5, 2008, after a bench trial in the District Court for the
Southern District of New York, the district judge issued findings of fact, including that:
There is no assurance that Crow can be trusted in the future to comply with
securities laws. Crow has not acknowledged any wrongdoing. He had been
enjoined once already and has acted in breach of the terms of that consent
agreement with the SEC. In his actions at the Duncans, he has demonstrated a
willingness to disregard the advice of counsel and he took steps to cover up what he
3

was actually doing. His conduct was egregious and he acted with scienter. In
addition, he perjured himself in this court.
15.
On November 13, 2008, the District Court issued a final judgment that: (1)
enjoined Crow from aiding and abetting violations of Sections 15(a), 15(b)(1), 15(b)(7) of
the Exchange Act and Rules 15b3-1 and 15b7-1 thereunder; (2) ordered Crow to pay
$6,996,103.87 in disgorgement and prejudgment interest, jointly and severally with others;
and (3) ordered Crow to pay a civil monetary penalty of $250,000.
16.
Based on the final judgment, the Commission instituted an administrative
proceeding against Crow. Following a motion for summary disposition filed by the
Commission’s Division of Enforcement, the Administrative Law Judge issued an Initial
Decision as to Crow, dated April 22, 2009, which stated that:
Crow’s actions were egregious on their face, a fact affirmed by the findings [of the
district judge] following a lengthy bench trial, and the almost five-and-a-half
million dollars in disgorgement she ordered, exclusive of prejudgment interest.
Based on evidence from Crow and others, [the district judge] found that Crow acted
with scienter and that he perjured himself in court. Crow’s actions were not
isolated, but continued for over a year, and followed separate proceedings in 1998
where a federal district court enjoined him from future antifraud violations and
barred him from serving as an officer or director of a public company, and the
Commission, in an administrative proceeding, denied him the privilege of
appearing before the Commission as an accountant. Crow’s conduct demonstrates
that he is an unreformed recidivist who poses a serious future threat to the investing
public.
17.
Based on those findings, Crow was barred from association with any
broker, dealer or investment adviser. Michael W. Crow, Initial Decision Rel. No. 376
(Apr. 22, 2009). In May 2009, the Initial Decision became final. Michael W. Crow,
Exchange Act Rel. 59982 (May 27, 2009).
18.
On January 22, 2010, Crow filed a Voluntary Petition in the U.S.
Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of California under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy
Code. Crow’s petition stated that he had approximately $28,000 in assets and $11.5
million in liabilities, including judgments, liens, alimony, and child support. See In re
Michael Wayne Crow, No. 10-000978-LT7 (Bankr. S.D. Cal. Jan. 22, 2010).
19.
On January 20, 2012, the court-appointed bankruptcy trustee filed an action
against Crow, alleging that Crow made fraudulent transfers, preferences and post-petition
transfers. Trustee v. M.W. Crow Family, L.P., et al., 10-00978-LT7 (Bankr. S.D. Ca. Jan.
20, 2012).

4

Crow Devises New Money-Making Schemes
20.
In early 2010, after filing for bankruptcy, Crow began planning new moneymaking schemes.
21.
Around that time, Crow and Clug used a shell entity, Duncan Technology
Group, to launch PanAm, with the aim of getting it listed on an exchange as a publiclytraded company. In early 2011, Crow and Clug traveled to Brazil and Argentina. Upon
their return, they caused PanAm to file a Form 10 with the Commission, registering its
common stock under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act.
22.
In April 2011, Crow and Clug formed Corsair and Aurum. Crow and Clug
used Aurum, PanAm and Corsair to raise funds from investors in the U.S., purportedly to
launch farmland and gold mining operations in South America. However, neither Crow
nor Clug had any expertise or experience in farmland management or the mining industry.
23.
When they formed Aurum, Crow and Clug allocated to themselves 650,000
each in controlling Class B membership units in Aurum through their respective personal
shell entities. Crow and Clug did not invest any of their own money in Aurum.
24.
Corsair entered into consulting or advisory agreements with Aurum and
PanAm. Through this structure, Crow and Clug collected fees from proceeds obtained
from investors in Aurum and PanAm, even though Aurum and PanAm never generated any
revenue. Between February 2012 and November 2013, Crow and Clug received at least
$600,000 in Corsair fees from Aurum and PanAm.
Respondents Fraudulently Offer and Sell Aurum Securities
The Aurum Convertible Notes and Term Sheet
25.
Between May and June 2011, Aurum, through a term sheet dated May 10,
2011 (“Term Sheet”), raised $250,000 from nine investors in Florida and Connecticut
through the offer and sale of “Senior Secured Convertible Notes.” The notes were secured
by Aurum’s minimal assets and offered investors 8% return with a nine month maturity
date. The notes also offered investors an option to convert their notes into equity at a 50%
discount or $2.50 per share at the earlier of the “Close” or maturity. The notes defined the
“Close” as “the financing and closing of the acquisition on the land rights and mining rights
for the Gold project known as Batalha.”
26.
The Term Sheet also stated that the note proceeds would be used to
“complete due diligence including final report from engineers, legal, travel and costs
related to the land purchase and startup operations.” Instead, a majority of the funds raised
went to personally benefit Crow and Clug.

5

The August 2011 PPM
27.
In August 2011, Crow, Clug and Aurum’s Chief Financial Officer (the
“CFO”) started soliciting investors to invest in non-voting Class A equity membership
units in Aurum at $5 per unit. They provided investors, including some of the convertible
note investors, with a Private Placement Memorandum dated August 1, 2011 (the “August
2011 PPM”). The August 2011 PPM provided a detailed description of Crow’s
professional background, including his designation as a CPA and his work experience prior
to becoming President and Chairman of Wilshire. However, it omitted Crow’s role and
activities at Wilshire, his history of securities law violations, his pending bankruptcy, and
the fact that his CPA license had expired.
28.
The August 2011 PPM stated that closing would not occur and investor
funds would be escrowed until at least $1 million had been raised in the equity offering and
“certain closing conditions” relating to the Batalha gold project had been satisfied.
29.
The “closing conditions” in the PPM required, first, that Aurum and Arthom
enter into a joint venture agreement on substantially the same terms as provided in the
August 2011 PPM. Second, Aurum was to receive a geological report from a qualified and
licensed geologist, attesting to his opinion regarding the average and/or total gold content
of the Batalha tailings. Third, Aurum was to receive an opinion of Brazilian legal counsel
stating that: (a) the Batalha JV had been duly formed under Brazilian law and Aurum
owned a minimum of 49% in the Batalha JV subject to Aurum’s required full funding of
$2.5 million; (b) the Batalha JV owned or had irrevocable rights to the land and mining
rights to Batalha; and (c) the Batalha JV had received the licenses from the Brazilian
government required to implement the Batalha JV’s business plan with respect to Batalha.
30.
Aurum and Arthom entered into a joint venture agreement dated December
12, 2011 (the “Batalha JV Agreement”), which purported to modify and replace a prior
agreement. The Batalha JV Agreement provided for a 50-50 ownership between Aurum
and Arthom. It required Arthom to transfer its claimed contractual right in the Batalha
property to the Batalha JV. It also required Aurum to provide funding, in the form of loans
to the Batalha JV, starting with an initial funding of $750,000. The $750,000 was to be
used primarily to purchase equipment for the Batalha project, among other things.
31.
By December 31, 2011, Crow and Clug had virtually depleted the $250,000
proceeds from the convertible notes, which were due to mature in less than two months.
By then, Aurum had raised only $115,000 from investors in the equity offering, which had
not been escrowed, contrary to what Aurum represented to investors in the August 2011
PPM. Rather, Aurum kept the funds in its savings account, to which Crow and Clug had
unfettered access. Crow had also depleted his personal account. Faced with a potential
default on the convertible notes and in an apparent attempt to replenish Crow’s personal
account, Crow and Clug lied to investors about Batalha as detailed below.

6

The December 2011 PPM and PPM Update Letter
32.
In January 2012, Aurum sent another PPM dated December 31, 2011 (the
“December 2011 PPM”) and an “update” letter (“PPM Update Letter”) to investors, mostly
convertible note holders. The PPM Update Letter included an acknowledgement of receipt
and acceptance of the December 2011 PPM by the investors. The December 2011 PPM
represented that no subscriptions would be accepted until Aurum had raised at least
$250,000 in equity and the PPM closing conditions had been satisfied.
33.
In late January 2012, after Aurum disseminated the December 2011 PPM
and the PPM Update Letter to investors, Crow and Clug accessed the purportedly escrowed
equity investor proceeds to pay themselves fees.
34.
Both the December 2011 PPM and the PPM Update Letter contained
material misrepresentations and omissions designed to entice investors to retain or increase
their investments in Aurum.
35.
Specifically, the December 2011 PPM and the PPM Update Letter misled
investors about Aurum’s ownership interest in the Batalha property. The December 2011
PPM represented that Arthom had purchased and owned or controlled the land and rights to
the Batalha property. It further represented that Arthom had contributed the property to the
Batalha JV and that Batalha was “ready to initiate processing.” The PPM Update Letter
stated:
As you know, we started 2011 focused on acquiring an interest in Batalha, a 3,742
hectare property in northern Brazil with our partners there. We additionally wanted
to complete the initial tests and geology to ascertain the reserves. We have
completed all of this successfully.
36.
The PPM Update Letter further stated that Aurum had “[c]losed on
acquiring the 50% interest in Batalha, our Brazil gold project” and that Aurum had
“satisfied the conditions of closing on the Aurum original PPM,” referring to the Batalha
closing conditions of the August 2011 PPM.
37.
These representations were false because Aurum never acquired an interest
in the Batalha property nor did the Batalha JV obtain the required mining licenses.
38.
The August 2011 PPM also required that Aurum receive an opinion from
Brazilian legal counsel that the Batalha JV owned or had irrevocable rights to the Batalha
land and mining rights and that it had obtained the required licenses from the Brazilian
authorities. This never happened. In fact, on March 8, 2012, Crow and Clug received an
email from Brazilian counsel, which stated:
We still have no proof that Batalha has mining rights and land nor [sic] that it has
the right to acquire such mining rights and land. We dont [sic] recommend any
further investment at this point.
7

39.
Even after receiving this email from Brazilian counsel, Crow and Clug
failed to correct the material misrepresentations and omissions about Batalha in the
December 2011 PPM. Instead, they continued to falsely represent to investors that Aurum
owned property in Brazil. Aurum also falsely represented that it had actually purchased
land in Brazil and misled investors about Batalha’s status in Aurum’s 2012 quarterly
update reports. Aurum never satisfied the Batalha closing conditions. Nevertheless,
Aurum continued to use the December 2011 PPM and quarterly reports to solicit new
investors.
40.
The December 2011 PPM and PPM Update Letter also contained material
misrepresentations and omissions concerning, among other things: (a) the use of investor
proceeds; (b) test results and financial projections relating to the Batalha property; and (c)
the acquisition of other gold properties in Peru.
41.
The Aurum operating agreement represented that Aurum would provide
investors with annual audited and unaudited financial statements. Aurum failed to do so.
42.
Both the August 2011 PPM and the December 2011 PPM stated that Crow
and Clug, through entities they controlled, had received “Class B Units in consideration of
[their] efforts in organizing Aurum Mining, advancing all the costs and time, formulating
its business plan, and contributing the Letter of Intent and the rights attached to Aurum
Mining LLC.” The PPMs also stated that Corsair was entitled to receive “incentive
compensation” from gross revenues, but only after certain hurdles were reached. The
PPMs stated that, “[t]he terms on which the Managers and [Corsair] will be compensated
… were determined by the Managers [and no] disinterested party has confirmed the
fairness of those terms … .”
43.
Crow and Clug used investor proceeds to: (i) pay themselves each a salary
of $12,500 per month; (ii) collect at least $2,000 each a month for apartments in an upscale
part of Lima, Peru; (iii) draw $1,500 each a month in cash for pocket money; and (iv) cover
their living, travel and other expenses.
44.
The December 2011 PPM also provided a detailed description of Crow’s
professional background but it omitted Crow’s securities industry bars and his pending
bankruptcy. Instead, it referred investors to a “data room” for details on “any past
litigation” involving Aurum’s managers.
45.
Between mid-January and February 2012, Aurum sent the PPM Update
Letter to all the note investors and urged them to convert their notes into equity with
misleading information about Aurum’s business prospects in Brazil and Peru. Aurum also
sent the PPM Update Letter to existing equity investors inducing them to invest more
money in Aurum.
46.
From August 2011 to September 2012, Aurum raised approximately $2.2
million from at least 20 investors in Florida, Connecticut and California.
8

The Aurum Quarterly Updates to Investors
47.
In mid-2012, Aurum started sending quarterly reports to “update” existing
and prospective Aurum investors which were replete with material misrepresentations and
omissions about Aurum’s business prospects. Through these quarterly reports, Aurum
misled investors about its ownership interests in various mineral properties in Brazil and
Peru, the test results obtained from those properties, and the timing of production and cash
flow associated with those properties. The quarterly updates were written or reviewed by
Crow and Clug.
48.
For instance, the 2012 first quarter report, dated May 2012, represented that
Aurum had acquired “two excellent mining concessions” in Peru, referring to the Cobre
Sur and Molle Huacan concessions. To the contrary, Aurum had acquired only an option
to purchase the concessions subject to meeting substantial payment obligations to the
owners.
49.
In addition, by April 16, 2012, Crow and Clug already knew that one of the
sites, Cobre Sur, had negative test results. An American geologist (“Geologist A”) tested
Cobre Sur and informed Aurum that the gold values were too low to start a mining
operation on the property. Notwithstanding, Clug asked whether Geologist A would
produce a “project of merit” report for Cobre Sur. Geologist A declined.
50.
Geologist A also tested another site, Molle Huacan, during a site visit in
April 2012, accompanied by Clug and Aurum’s Peruvian geologist. Subsequently,
Geologist A issued a report dated October 8, 2012, concluding that “[g]iven the low
average grade and small tonnage potential,” Molle Huacan was “not ready for production.”
Nonetheless, Aurum’s 2012 third quarter report dated November 5, 2012 falsely
represented that the results of Aurum’s metallurgy tests on Molle Huacan “have been
excellent and indicate high recovery rates at lower cost.”
51.
The 2012 third quarter report further misled investors about the timing of
production and cash flow. It stated that the first day of operational mining in Molle Huacan
was projected to occur on November 25, 2012, with processing and cash flow starting by
January 2013, and encouraged investors to increase their stake by November 30, 2012,
indicating that it would otherwise seek funds from new investors. At least two investors
increased their investments after receiving this misleading update.
52.
Finally, on July 10, 2013, Clug sent a belated 2013 first quarter report to an
investor. Clug wrote in the cover email that “[w]e are working hard here to get into
production and processing and thus positive cash flow asap!” and that Aurum was on the
verge of finishing its on-site processing plant to start processing and selling gold. The 2013
first quarter report projected that initial production and processing would occur by August
1, 2013 and the overall test results “indicate that our mineral is ideal for a high volume
operation and a good fit for the leaching process [sic] plant that we are building.” To the
contrary, Aurum did not produce any viable amount of gold. The so-called processing
plant at Molle Huacan never became operational.
9

The September 2012 PPM, January 2013 PPM, CIM Offering Circular,
and Aurum Business Plan
53.
By September 2012, the approximately $2 million raised from the equity
offering was substantially depleted. Aurum then prepared a new PPM dated September 15,
2012 (“September 2012 PPM”) in a bid to raise $1 million purportedly to build a mineral
processing plant and launch mining operations in Peru. Subsequently, Aurum used another
PPM dated January 1, 2013 (“January 2013 PPM”), a Confidential Information
Memorandum (“CIM”), and an Aurum Business Plan dated January 30, 2013 (“Aurum
Business Plan”), in a bid to raise an additional $1 million, also purportedly to build a
mineral processing plant and launch mining operations in Peru. The September 2012 PPM,
January 2013 PPM, CIM, and Aurum Business Plan also contained material
misrepresentations and omissions.
54.
The September 2012 PPM stated that Aurum had “uncovered at least 10
significant gold veins and one in which we know there is a lot of copper.” It also stated
that “[o]ur goal is to be able to initiate mining of the ore from Molle Huacan by the end of
Q3 of 2012 and process ourselves by Q2 of 2013.” The January 2013 PPM stated that
“[o]ur goal is to be able to initiate mining of the ore from Molle Huacan by the end of Q1
of 2013 and process on site.” The CIM represented that an independent geological report
had concluded that Molle Huacan was “a project of merit with a reasonable plan for drilling
to define the ore body.”
55.
The CIM also stated that Aurum’s quick-to-production approach was
“focused on generating positive cash flows quickly and the inferred gold resources of the
Molle Huacan property means long-term cash flows from its operations.” In addition, the
CIM confirmed that Aurum had obtained all the required permits and was going into
production, falsely stating that “initial production commenced in April 2013” and that
Molle Huacan will be in phase 2 production in mid-2013. The CIM projected that within 5
years, Aurum will realize $194,762,960 in net income from Molle Huacan.
56.
These are material misrepresentations and omissions because they imply
that Molle Huacan already had an ore body of gold and that Aurum was on the verge of
producing and processing gold. Contrary to Aurum’s claims, a Canadian geologist
(“Geologist B”) who visited Molle Huacan in February 2013 and had tested the site, found
no evidence that Molle Huacan had an ore body of gold. According to Geologist B, an “ore
body” is a body of mineralization that is economic to extract, i.e. sufficient to fund its
exploration, development, extraction, labor, overhead, and reclamation costs, in addition to
providing a reasonable return to investors. Dissatisfied, Clug tried to convince Geologist B
to alter or omit some of the negative findings in his draft geological report, including the
fact that Geologist B’s test results showed lower gold values than those reported by
Aurum’s local Peruvian geologist. Geologist B declined. Eventually, Geologist B
concluded that Molle Huacan did not contain any known mineral resources or reserves.

10

57.
Furthermore, the Aurum Business Plan, which was used as a marketing tool,
also contained material misrepresentations and omissions. For instance, it stated that
exploration had “confirmed the presence of 7 mineral veins within Molle Huacan” and that
“[t]hese rosy class veins have grades between 3 grams and 25 grams of gold.” It also
estimated that Molle Huacan contained inferred gold mineral resources of a minimum
2,842,000 ounces” on one vein alone. Geologist B found these estimates to inaccurate and
exaggerated.
58.
The September 2012 PPM and January 2013 PPM referred investors to the
data room for “discussion of Mr. Crow’s 2008 litigation with the SEC over an investment
and ownership of a broker dealer without the requisite securities license and subsequent
bankruptcy following the financial meltdown of 2008.”
59.
From September 2012 to November 2013, Aurum raised approximately
$1.5 million from at least 10 investors in Florida, Connecticut, California, and elsewhere.
60.
Crow and Clug knew or should have known that the PPMs, PPM Update
Letters, the quarterly update reports, and other offering documents disseminated to
investors contained material misrepresentations and omissions. Crow and Clug were
Aurum’s principals, and each was a managing member of Aurum. Each participated in the
drafting and approval of the offering documents, and, was directly involved with Aurum’s
activities in Brazil and Peru.
Respondents Fraudulently Offer and Sell PanAm Securities
61.
On April 29, 2011, PanAm filed a Form 10 with the Commission. In its
Commission filings and other offering disclosures, PanAm represented to investors that it
planned to acquire and control Latin American farmland utilized for permanent crops
which can be readily exported to countries that cannot competitively produce sufficient
food. PanAm projected that by the end of its third year (2014), it would own 20,000
hectares with a value of $280 million and an enterprise value of approximately $500
million.
62.
Prior to PanAm’s registration of its common stock with the Commission,
Crow played a lead role in directing the affairs of the company. After PanAm became a
public company, Crow continued his involvement, operating behind the scenes. Crow was
regularly involved in high-level senior management communications concerning PanAm’s
business affairs and he participated in decision-making activities. For example, Crow
negotiated business deals with third parties on behalf of PanAm. Crow also attended
conferences and business meetings relating to PanAm and billed his expenses to PanAm.
Furthermore, Crow was instrumental in selecting officers and directors of PanAm. Crow
performed oversight functions and even threatened to fire PanAm’s CFO because of a
delay in PanAm’s Form 10-K filing with the Commission. Clug and others at PanAm kept
Crow informed about PanAm’s operations and business plans.

11

63.
Crow obtained two convertible notes from PanAm in March 2011 in
exchange for $25,000 in a purported “seed loan” to PanAm in 2010 and $28,000 in
purported unreimbursed expenses incurred on behalf of PanAm before it filed its Form 10
with the Commission. Crow had PanAm issue the notes to Pacific Trade Ltd., a shell
entity Crow owned and controlled.
64.
An advisory agreement between PanAm and Corsair dated July 6, 2012
provided that Corsair would “provide recommendations” to PanAm “in connection with
management issues, equity or debt financing as well as other financial matters.” Through
this advisory agreement, Corsair obtained approximately $40,000 in fees from PanAm,
with at least half of the proceeds going to Crow. While PanAm’s Commission filings
disclosed the Corsair contract, it failed to disclose Crow’s role in Corsair.
65.
From at least January 2011 to March 2013, PanAm raised $400,000 from
about a dozen investors in Florida.
66.
The PanAm investors signed subscription agreements which stated that
they were relying only on PanAm’s Executive Brief (“PanAm Brief”) and any other
written information furnished by PanAm (i.e., Commission filings). However, the
PanAm Brief dated May 2011 falsely represented to investors that PanAm had submitted
an application for listing on the OTCBB in April 2011. This was materially misleading
to investors because it gave them the false impression that PanAm’s shares were poised
to become publicly traded with a significant upside.
67.
PanAm’s Commission filings and offering documents failed to disclose
Crow’s extensive involvement with PanAm, his pending bankruptcy and the fact that he
had been barred as an officer or director of a public company.
68.
Furthermore, PanAm represented in its Form D filing in September 2012
that none of the initial $320,000 offering proceeds would be used to pay the officers and
directors or promoters of PanAm. This was false because by September 2012 PanAm
had used a substantial portion of the proceeds to pay Crow, Clug and another individual
acting as PanAm’s CEO.
69.
Ultimately, PanAm did not acquire a single asset in Latin America. Instead,
it used at least $100,000 of the investor proceeds to personally benefit Crow and Clug.
70.
Crow and Clug each knew or should have known that PanAm’s public
filings and offering documents contained material misrepresentations and omissions.
71.
Clug, as CEO, signed a certification as to the accuracy of PanAm’s
Commission filings, pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14.

12

Respondents Operated Corsair as an Unregistered Broker-Dealer
72.
In January 2012, Corsair entered into a referral agreement with ABS. The
agreement required ABS to pay commissions or fees to Corsair based on the principal
amount invested by any investor referred by Corsair to ABS. Shortly thereafter, Crow, Clug
and Corsair’s CFO facilitated a meeting between the ABS portfolio manager and Aurum
investors in which the ABS portfolio manager made a marketing pitch to investors. The
ABS portfolio manager informed investors that they could invest in purportedly safe
GNMA bonds in the ABS portfolio earning 12% return. Crow, Clug and the Corsair CFO
also participated in the preparation of a term sheet to enable investors to borrow up to 70%
against the value of the investors’ ABS accounts to invest in Aurum’s equity offerings.
73.
Between January 2012 and December 2012, Corsair referred at least six
investors to ABS and received at least $10,000 in fees in the form of transaction-based
compensation from ABS as a result of investments in ABS made by those referred
investors. Crow and Clug shared the fees paid to Corsair.
74.
At the time Corsair received the fees from ABS, Corsair was not registered
as a broker-dealer with the Commission. In addition, Crow and Clug were not registered as
or associated with any registered broker-dealer. In fact, Crow had been barred from,
among other things, association with any broker-dealer.
D.

VIOLATIONS

75.
As a result of the conduct described above, Crow, Clug, Aurum, and
PanAm willfully violated Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, Section 10(b) of the
Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct in the offer
and sale of securities and in connection with the purchase or sale of securities. Crow and
Clug willfully aided and abetted and caused such violations by Aurum and PanAm.
76.
As a result of the conduct described above, PanAm willfully violated, and
Crow and Clug willfully aided and abetted and caused PanAm’s violations of Section 13(a)
of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder, which require every
issuer of a security registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act to file complete
and accurate annual and quarterly reports with the Commission.
77.
As a result of the conduct described above, Clug willfully violated Rule
13a-14 of the Exchange Act, which requires that principal executive and financial officers
of an issuer of a security registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act certify to
the accuracy and completeness of the issuer’s annual and quarterly reports filed with the
Commission.
78.
As a result of the conduct described above, Crow, Clug and Corsair
willfully violated Section 15(a)(1) of the Exchange Act, which prohibits any entity from
making use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce to effect

13

transactions in securities without registering as a broker-dealer. Crow and Clug willfully
aided and abetted and caused such violation by Corsair.
79.
As a result of the conduct described above, Crow willfully violated Section
15(b)(6)(B) of the Exchange Act for acting as or associating with a broker-dealer while
under Commission order pursuant to Section 15(b)(6)(A) of the Exchange Act. Clug
willfully aided and abetted and caused such violation by Crow.
III.
In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement, the Commission
deems it necessary and appropriate in the public interest that public administrative and
cease-and-desist proceedings be instituted to determine:
A.
Whether the allegations set forth in Section II hereof are true and, in
connection therewith, to afford Respondents an opportunity to establish any defenses to such
allegations;
B.
What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against
Respondents pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act including, but not limited to,
disgorgement and civil penalties pursuant to Section 21B of the Exchange Act;
C.
What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against
Respondents pursuant to Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act including, but not
limited to, disgorgement and civil penalties pursuant to Section 9 of the Investment
Company Act; and
E.
Whether, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, Section 21C of the
Exchange Act and Section 9 of the Investment Company Act, Respondents should be
ordered to cease and desist from committing or causing violations of and any future
violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, Sections 10(b), 13(a), 15(a)(1) and
15(b)(6)(B) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-13 and 13a-14
thereunder, whether Respondents should be ordered to pay a civil penalty pursuant to
Section 8A(g) of the Securities Act, Section 21B(a) of the Exchange Act and Section 9(d) of
the Investment Company Act, and whether Respondents should be ordered to pay
disgorgement pursuant to Section 8A(e) of the Securities Act, Sections 21B(e) and 21C(e)
of the Exchange Act, and Section 9 of the Investment Company Act .
IV.
IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the
questions set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened not earlier than 30 days and not
later than 60 days from service of this Order at a time and place to be fixed, and before an
Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 of the
Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.110.

14

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents shall file an Answer to the
allegations contained in this Order within twenty (20) days after service of this Order, as
provided by Rule 220 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220.
If Respondents fail to file the directed answer, or fail to appear at a hearing after
being duly notified, the Respondents may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be
determined against them upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of which may be
deemed to be true as provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f) and 310 of the Commission's
Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. §§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f) and 201.310.
This Order shall be served forthwith upon Respondents as provided for in the
Commission’s Rules of Practice
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an
initial decision no later than 300 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to
Rule 360(a)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.
In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission
engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually
related proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter,
except as witness or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice. Since this proceeding is
not “rule making” within the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it
is not deemed subject to the provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any
final Commission action.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

15

