UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 9994 / December 21, 2015
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17010

In the Matter of
the Registration Statement of
Scription Work Solutions, Inc.
(f/k/a Transtech Solutions, Inc.)
848 N. Rainbow Blvd., Unit 1175
Las Vegas, NV 89107

ORDER FIXING TIME AND PLACE
OF PUBLIC HEARING AND
INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 8(d) OF THE
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933

Respondent.

I.
The Commission’s public official files disclose that:
On March 29, 2013, Respondent filed a Form S-1 registration statement seeking to
register the offer and sale of 20 million common shares. The registration statement was
amended on May 10, 2013, June 5, 2013, June 28, 2013, October 7, 2013, October 7, 2013,
November 1, 2013, November 25, 2013, and January 21, 2014 (together, the “Registration
Statement”). The Registration Statement has not been declared effective.
II.
After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement alleges that:
A.

RESPONDENT

1.
Respondent is a revoked Nevada corporation headquartered in Las
Vegas, Nevada. Respondent is delinquent with its annual filing fee obligations and its
submission of its list of officers. It has not paid filing fees nor submitted its list of officers
from July 31, 2015 to present.

B.

MATERIAL MISSTATEMENTS AND OMISSIONS

2.
The Registration Statement includes untrue statements of material
facts and omits to state material facts necessary to make the statements contained therein
not misleading. The untrue statements and omissions of material facts are as follows:
a.
The Registration Statement states that Respondent has a sole
officer and director and that “[w]e currently rely on [our sole officer and director] to
manage all aspects of our business.” These disclosures are false and misleading because
Respondent has undisclosed control persons and/or promoters, who are different than the
sole officer and director listed in the Registration Statement. One of the undisclosed
control persons and/or promoters:
i. drafted Respondent’s Form S-1, and communicated with the
law firm that facilitated Respondent’s the filing of
Respondent’s Registration Statement providing it with draft
responses to staff’s comments to Respondent’s Registration
Statement;
ii. interacted with Respondent’s auditors regarding its financial
statements;
iii. provided false consulting invoices to Respondent’s auditors;
and
iv. has custody and control of Respondent’s corporate records.
b.
The Registration Statement states that Respondent is engaged in
“Phase 1” of a two-phase business plan that included expenditures related to
incorporation and drafting a business plan. The remaining portion of Phase 1 was to
acquire additional funding. This disclosure is false and misleading because Respondent’s
sole officer and director improperly withdrew $25,000 from Respondent’s bank account
to fund one of his other medical transcription businesses.
c.
The Registration Statement states that since 2001 Respondent’s
sole officer and director “has been a Senior Partner at ‘mypharmacard’” and that “his
experience working in the medical industry with ‘mypharmacare’ will assist Scription
Work Solutions, Inc. and grow the business.” These disclosures are false and misleading
because neither “mypharmacard” nor “mypharmacare” exist.

III.
The Commission, having considered the aforesaid, deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public proceedings pursuant to Section 8(d) of the Securities Act be
instituted with respect to the Registration Statement to determine whether the allegations of
the Division of Enforcement are true; to afford the Respondent with an opportunity to

2

establish any defenses to these allegations; and to determine whether a stop order should
issue suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement referred to herein.
Accordingly, IT IS ORDERED that public proceedings be and hereby are
instituted under Section 8(d) of the Securities Act, such hearing to be commenced at 9:30
a.m. on January 7, 2016, at the Commission's offices at 100 F Street N.E., Washington,
DC 20549, and to continue thereafter at such time and place as the hearing officer may
determine.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that these proceedings shall be presided over by an
Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order, who is authorized to
perform all the duties of an Administrative Law Judge as set forth in the Commission's
Rules of Practice or as otherwise provided by law.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Respondent shall file an Answer to the
allegations contained in this Order within ten (10) days after service of this Order,
pursuant to Rule 220 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220. If the
Respondent fails to file the directed answer, or fails to appear at a hearing after being
duly notified, the Respondent may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be
determined against the Respondent upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of
which may be deemed to be true as provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f) and 310 of
the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. §§201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f) and
201.310. This Order shall be served forthwith upon the Respondent in accordance with
Rule 141 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. §201.141.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an
initial decision no later than 120 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to
Rule 360(a)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. In the absence of an appropriate
waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission engaged in the performance of
investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually related proceeding will be
permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter, except as witness or counsel
in proceedings held pursuant to notice. Since this proceeding is not “rule making” within
the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it is not deemed subject
to the provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any final Commission
action.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

