UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Administrative Proceeding File No.3-11359

In the Matter of
ALLIANCE CAPITAL MANAGEMENT, L.P.,
Respondent	

)
)
)
)
)
)
)

FINAL PLAN OF DISTRIBUTION

A. INTRODUCTION
1.	

Background And Purpose Of The Plan
1.1	

This Plan of Distribution (the “Plan”) has been developed by an
Independent Distribution Consultant (“IDC”) pursuant to the Amended
Order of the Securities and Exchange Commission Instituting
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and
Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order against
Alliance Capital Management, L.P. (“Alliance Capital”), dated January
15, 2004 (the “Order”). Pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002, the Plan provides for the creation of a $250 million Fair Fund
(the “Fair Fund”), consisting of $150 million in disgorgement and $100
million in penalty (Order at Section IV, Part K), paid by Alliance Capital
in settlement of claims by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
“SEC” or “Commission”) relating to market timing in certain Alliance
Capital mutual funds (the “Alliance Settlement”). The Fair Fund’s assets
will be distributed only pursuant to the terms of this Plan.

1.2	

The Alliance Settlement
According to the Order, between January 1, 2001 and September 30, 2003
(the “Relevant Period”) Alliance Capital entered into “negotiated, but
undisclosed, arrangements with market timers — arrangements that

benefited Alliance Capital to the detriment of investors in mutual funds
managed by Alliance Capital. In those arrangements, Alliance Capital
provided ‘timing capacity’ in mutual funds to known timers in return for
or in connection with the timers’ investments of ‘sticky assets’ in Alliance
Capital managed hedge funds, mutual funds and other investment
vehicles, from which Alliance Capital earned management fees.”1
According to the Order, the arrangements were with 23 market timers and
affected ten Alliance Funds.2
1.3	

On January 16, 2004, Alliance Capital deposited the Alliance Settlement
assets with the US Treasury and no longer controls them. The Alliance
Settlement assets were transferred on February 11, 2005 to the Department
of the Treasury’s Bureau of Public Debt (the “BPD”) for investment in
government obligations pending the issuance by the Commission of an
order giving final approval of the Plan (the “Final Approval Date”).
1.3.1	 As described below:

1.4	

(a)	

the Commission has continuing jurisdiction and control of
the Fair Fund Assets (as defined below) and shall retain
control of those assets pending distribution pursuant to this
Plan, as directed by the IDC and approved by the
Commission; and

(b)	

the IDC has concluded that the amount of the Alliance
Settlement is more than sufficient to compensate the losses
incurred by investors as a result of the conduct contained in
the findings of the Order.

The Additional Settlement Assets
1.4.1	 On April 28, 2005, the Commission simultaneously instituted and
settled administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings against
Gerald T. Malone (“Malone”), John D. Carifa (“Carifa”) and
Michael J. Laughlin (“Laughlin”), all former Alliance Capital
officers, for their roles in the “timing capacity” arrangements

1

Order at Section III. 1.

2

Although referred to for purposes of this Plan of Distribution as Alliance Capital, the
Respondent’s name was changed to AllianceBernstein LP in February 2006. The ten
mutual funds at issue are referred to in this Plan as the “Alliance Funds.”

2


described in Section 1.2. The Commission found that Malone,
Carifa and Laughlin aided and abetted Alliance Capital’s unlawful
conduct. In the Matter of Gerald T. Malone, File No. 3-11914
(Apr. 28, 2005); In the Matter of John D. Carifa, File No. 3-11915
(Apr. 28, 2005); In the Matter of Michael J. Laughlin, File No. 3
11916 (Apr. 28, 2005). Pursuant to these orders, between April 28,
and May 4, 2005, Malone, Carifa and Laughlin paid $150,001,
$375,001, and $325,001, respectively, in disgorgement and civil
penalties to the US Treasury, which may be distributed pursuant to
Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Officer
Settlements”). On June 8, 2005, these moneys were transferred to
the BPD. All of these assets will be available for distribution in
the Fair Fund.
1.4.2	 On December 23, 2003, the Commission filed a civil injunction
action against Daniel Calugar (“Calugar”) and the broker-dealer he
controlled, Security Brokerage, Inc. (“SBI”). SEC v. Calugar, Civ.
No. 03-1600 RCJ (RJJ) (D. Nev.). The Commission alleged that
Calugar and SBI defrauded mutual fund investors, including
Alliance Funds investors, through improper late trading and market
timing. On January 9, 2006, the Commission settled this action,
and as part of the settlement, Calugar paid $153 million in
disgorgement and civil penalties to the registry of the United States
District Court for the District of Nevada, which may be distributed
pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Of
this $153 million, $70.38 million of the Calugar Settlement Fund,
representing harm to Alliance Fund investors from the activities of
Calugar and SBI, was transferred into the Fair Fund account on
October 23, 2006 for distribution in the Fair Fund (the “Calugar
Settlement”).
1.5	

The Fair Fund Assets
1.5.1	 The total assets from the Alliance Settlement, the Officer
Settlements and the Calugar Settlement constitute the assets of the
Fair Fund (the “Fair Fund Assets”). Other than interest from these
investments, it is not anticipated that the Fair Fund will receive
additional assets.
1.5.2	 The Fair Fund Assets will be distributed only pursuant to the terms
of the IDC’s Plan. The Plan is subject to approval by the
Commission, and the Commission retains jurisdiction over the
implementation of the Plan. Except as may otherwise be provided
in this Plan, Alliance Capital will pay all fees and costs directly

3


associated with the administration of the Plan, including the fees of
the Fund Administrator.
1.6	

The Independent Distribution Consultant
1.6.1	 In October 2004, pursuant to the Order, Alliance Capital retained
Professor Marshall E. Blume as Independent Distribution
Consultant, to “develop a Distribution Plan for the distribution of
. . . the $250 million [Alliance Settlement] . . . to the mutual funds
and their shareholders to compensate fairly and proportionately the
funds’ shareholders for losses attributable to market timing trading
activity by market timers with whom Alliance Capital entered into
timing arrangements between January 1, 2001 and September 30,
2003, according to a methodology developed in consultation with
Alliance Capital and the independent directors of the affected
Alliance Capital funds and acceptable to the staff of the
Commission.” Order at Section IV, Part C. Alliance Capital has
agreed to pay all costs associated with the engagement of the IDC.
1.6.2	 Professor Blume is the Howard Butcher III Professor of Financial
Management, Director of the Rodney L. White Center for
Financial Research, and past Chairman of the Finance Department
at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. Professor
Blume received his MBA and PhD from the University of
Chicago. Professor Blume has conducted extensive research into
investments, the financial markets, and investor behavior. He is a
member of the Board of Managers of the Measey Foundation, a
past chairman of the NASD Economic Advisory Board, and a
member of the Shadow Financial Regulatory Committee. He
served on the U.S. Government Accounting Office advisory
committee that investigated the October 1987 stock market crash.
He is a past managing editor of the Journal of Finance and is
currently an editor of the Journal of Fixed Income, the Journal of
Portfolio Management and the Journal of Pension Fund
Management & Investment.
1.6.3	 The IDC’s responsibilities under the Order are to (a) assess the
amount of losses attributable to the investment activity in accounts
serviced by 23 representatives (the “Timers”) of various brokerdealers in the ten Alliance Funds3 and (b) design the Plan for

3

The ten Alliance Funds are: AllianceBernstein Growth Fund; AllianceBernstein
Growth and Income Fund; AllianceBernstein High Yield Fund; AllianceBernstein
(cont’d)

4


distribution of Fair Fund Assets, in order that fund investors would
“receive, in order of priority, (i) their aliquot share of losses
suffered by the fund due to market timing, and (ii) a proportionate
share of advisory fees paid by such fund during the period of such
market timing.” Order at III.C.1. The IDC’s assessment of losses
attributable to Timer activity is attached as Exhibit A, incorporated
in this Plan, and described briefly in Section 2 below.
1.6.4	 Not later than 30 days after the Commission’s final approval of the
Plan, the Fund Administrator (identified in Section 4.1, below), in
coordination with the IDC, will attempt to notify Timers that they
are not Potentially Eligible Recipients under Section 3.2 of the
Plan (and thus are not eligible to receive a distribution). The
notice will also inform the Timers that they can review the Plan at
http://www.abfairfund.com.
1.6.5	 The IDC shall be entitled to interpret the provisions of this Plan
relating to the allocation and the distribution of payments and,
absent manifest error, the IDC’s interpretation shall be controlling.
Prior to interpreting any such provision of this Plan that is material,
or exercising any material discretion provided to him under this
Plan, the IDC shall inform the Commission staff of such
interpretation or exercise of discretion. In particular but without
limitation, whenever this Plan calls for the submission of
“sufficient” information by any party, the sufficiency of such
information shall be determined in the sole discretion of the IDC,
in consultation with the Fund Administrator, as defined below at
Section 4.1, or any other party retained by or at the IDC’s direction
to assist in the development and/or implementation of this Plan.
Determining the reasonableness of efforts to obtain and use data
(cont’d)
Americas Gov’t Income Trust (AB North American Gov’t Income Trust prior to Mar
1, 2002); AllianceBernstein Focused Growth and Income Fund (AB Disciplined
Value Fund prior to Dec 15, 2004); AllianceBernstein Mid-Cap Growth Fund
(Alliance Fund prior to Feb. 1, 2002); AllianceBernstein Large Cap Growth Fund
(AB Premier Growth Fund prior to Dec 15, 2004); AllianceBernstein Small Cap
Growth Portfolio (AB Quasar Fund prior to Nov 1, 2003); AllianceBernstein
Small/Mid Cap Value Fund (AB Small Cap Value Fund prior to Feb 1, 2005);
AllianceBernstein Global Technology Fund (AB Technology Fund prior to Dec 15,
2004).

5


also shall be within the IDC’s discretion, including but not limited
to the reasonability of efforts to render data machine-readable.
2.	

The IDC’s Assessment Of Investor Losses
2.1	

The Adjusted Profit Methodology. The IDC’s first task under the Order
was to assess the amount of losses from the Timers’ activities in the ten
Alliance Funds. Professor Blume developed the “Adjusted Profit”
methodology to measure losses attributable to activity of the Timers and
incurred by all other investors in the Alliance Funds (the “Non-Timers”
and “Non-Timer” in the singular) during the Relevant Period. Under the
methodology, the profits earned by the Timers are potential losses
incurred by the Non-Timers. These potential losses are then adjusted to
take into account any additional trading costs, foregone investment
returns, and administrative and advisory fees imposed on Alliance Funds
due to the Timers’ trading, resulting in the Adjusted Profits for this
distribution.

2.2	

Since both Timers and Non-Timers were subscribing and redeeming in the
Alliance Funds at the same time, Professor Blume determined that it was
not possible to attribute specific transactions by the portfolio managers
(“PM”) to either Timers or Non-Timers. Based upon the principle that a
PM reacts in the same way to the subscriptions and redemptions of either
category of shareholders, the PM’s transactions have been allocated to
both Timers and Non-Timers.

2.3	

Professor Blume’s calculations determine, on a daily basis, the losses to
each Non-Timer in each of the Alliance Funds attributable to the Timers’
activity. The data required to implement the adjusted profit methodology
include daily subscriptions and redemptions of both the Timers and NonTimers, daily holdings of each security for each Fund, daily PM purchases
and sales of securities, daily 10 am and closing prices on the primary
market for each of the securities held by each of the Funds, estimates of
the transaction costs associated with buying and selling securities in these
Funds, daily Net Asset Value per share for each of the Funds, and
management and administrative costs charged to the Funds.

2.4	

The Assessment. Using the methodology and data described above,
Professor Blume determined that the net total losses as measured by the
Adjusted Profits (the “Total Adjusted Profits”) are $186.4 million.

6


B. ALLOCATING LOSSES AND OTHER FAIR FUND ASSETS
3.	

Allocation Principles
3.1	

The Plan is designed, to the extent reasonably possible, to make settlement
payments directly to eligible Non-Timers in an expeditious and costeffective manner. In the view of the IDC, the Plan constitutes a fair and
reasonable allocation of the Fair Fund Assets.

3.2	

Potentially Eligible Recipients. Timers are not eligible for distributions
from the Fair Fund. Non-Timers who are potentially eligible to receive a
payment include:
3.2.1	 Each account of a Non-Timer invested in the Alliance Funds and
registered as an individual or as an entity during the Relevant
Period on the books and records of the Alliance Funds
(“Registered Accounts” or “Registered Account” in the singular) is
potentially eligible to receive a settlement payment.
3.2.2	 In addition, as provided in Section 5, certain Beneficial Owners
which invested in the Alliance Funds during the Relevant Period
through a Registered Account belonging to or serviced by a
financial intermediary (such as a Broker, Omnibus Custodian or
Collective Account Agent) may also be eligible.
3.2.3	 Such Registered Accounts and Beneficial Owners together
constitute “Potentially Eligible Recipients.”
3.2.4	 It is possible that an individual Non-Timer could be a Potentially
Eligible Recipient for two or more settlement payments: for
instance, a Non-Timer might have an account with Alliance
Capital in his own name, an IRA, and a Roth IRA.
3.2.5	 Accounts owned by or benefiting Malone, Carifa, Laughlin,
Calugar, or SBI shall not be eligible to receive any settlement
payments under the Plan.
3.2.6	 Aggregation Principle. During the Relevant Period, Potentially
Eligible Recipients may have held multiple Alliance Funds,
including different classes of shares in the same Alliance Fund.
Settlement Payments to each Potentially Eligible Recipient shall be
calculated as the sum of the compensation for the effect of the
Timers’ activities or losses, as determined below, across all
Alliance Funds and all classes of shares within each account

7


owned by that Recipient. The Adjusted Profits per Registered
Account (“Account Adjusted Profits”) is the sum of the Adjusted
Profits per Alliance Fund for all Alliance Funds owned in that
Account where the Adjusted Profits per Alliance Fund are positive.
Thus, this sum excludes those funds where the Adjusted Profits are
negative.4 Negative Adjusted Profits in an Alliance Fund indicate
that the Registered Account benefited from the activities of the
Timers. The effect of this exclusion is that the losses that a
Registered Account received in one or more funds are not offset by
gains in other funds. Any Potentially Eligible Recipient whose
Account Adjusted Profits are zero experience no losses and thus
will not receive a settlement payment.
3.2.7	 The De Minimis Amount. No settlement payment will be made
to a Potentially Eligible Recipient with less than $10 in losses at
the Final Allocation stage. The IDC has concluded that it is not
cost-effective or otherwise commercially reasonable to attempt to
distribute Fair Fund Assets in amounts lesser than the De Minimus
Amount.

4

3.3	

Allocation Overview. The first step in determining whether a Potentially
Eligible Recipient should receive a payment under this Plan is to
determine the Adjusted Profits allocable to that Potentially Eligible
Recipient. Because the Fair Fund Assets exceed the Adjusted Profits, the
second step is to allocate additional moneys from the Fair Fund to
Potentially Eligible Recipients, as set forth in Section 3.5.2. After this
allocation, those Potentially Eligible Recipients whose settlement
payments equal or exceed the De Minimis Amount will become “Eligible
Recipients” and payments will be made as described below.

3.4	

Adjusted Profits Allocations. Allocation of Adjusted Profits from the
Fair Fund Assets shall be according to the following general principles:
The calculation of each Potentially Eligible Recipient’s share of Adjusted
Profits is intended to result in a settlement payment that restores the
impaired value of that Recipient’s investments in Alliance Funds during
the Relevant Period. Some of this impaired value is susceptible to
calculation, while some of this impaired value is not. The method of

When Adjusted Profits per Alliance Fund-class are aggregated across classes to the
Fund level, the losses in one class are netted against potential gains in another class.
This treatment is consistent with the fact that all classes of the same Fund are
interests in the same portfolio of assets.

8


calculation is intended to estimate fairly the impaired value that each
Potentially Eligible Recipient has experienced.
3.5	

Gross-Up Account Allocations. The Total Adjusted Profits comprise
only a portion of the Fair Fund Assets. From the remaining Fair Fund
Assets, two accounts with the Fair Fund will be created: (a) “Gross-Up
Account” for distribution along with the Total Adjusted Profits to Eligible
Recipients as determined by the algorithm in Section 3.5.2 and (b) “Final
Settlement Account,” described at Section 3.7. The “Initial Funding” of
the Fair Fund’s Gross-Up Account will be: (a) $50,000,000 from the
Alliance Settlement and (b) $71,230,003 from the Officer Settlements and
Calugar Settlement. The “Final Funding” will be the Initial Funding plus
(a) interest earned on the Alliance Settlement through the “Calculation
Cut-Off Date,” defined as 80 days from the Final Approval Date, (b) any
settlement assets as to which a Broker or Omnibus Custodian (as defined,
respectively, at Sections 5.2 and 5.5) declines to participate or fails to
provide appropriate data, as set forth in Sections 5.2.1.2.c and 5.4.4.3,
(c) any settlement payments to accounts determined to be in escheatment
prior to the Calculation Cut-Off Date and (d) any settlement payments to
accounts with addresses determined to be invalid under Section 4.4 prior
to Calculation Cut-Off Date.
3.5.1	 Settlement payments from the Gross-Up Account shall be
characterized as a return of advisory fees on the assets of the NonTimers.
3.5.2	 Gross-Up Account assets shall be allocated and distributed in the
same proportions to each Potentially Eligible Recipient as shall the
Account Adjusted Profits so as to exhaust the Fair Fund Assets less
the Reserve Amount (as defined in Section 3.7.1). The Gross-Up
allocation utilizes an iterative algorithm to maximize the number
of Potentially Eligible Recipients Accounts whose settlement
payments exceed the De Minimis Amount and minimize the assets
in the Final Settlement Fund.5

5

The algorithm is as follows: Make a reasonable estimate of a gross-up percentage.
Increase by this percentage the Account Adjusted Profits of each Non-Timer
Account that could possibly receive a settlement payment under the Plan and then
eliminate tentative settlement payments that are below the De Minimis Amount. If
the sum of these tentative settlement payments is less than the total dollars to be
distributed (excluding the Reserve Account), increase the gross-up percentage and
repeat the above calculation; if the sum is greater, decrease the gross-up percentage
(cont’d)

9


3.5.3	 The application of the algorithm to determine the final settlement
payments requires that the IDC have accurate and complete data
for every Potentially Eligible Recipient in advance of the
distribution. Prior to the application of this algorithm, it is not
possible to distribute any settlement payments. Accordingly, to
provide for the expeditious distribution of settlement payments,
this Plan has set firm deadlines for receiving data for Potentially
Eligible Recipients from Network Level Accounts and Omnibus
Custodial Accounts, as set forth at Sections 5.2 and 5.5 below.
3.6	

Finalizing The Allocations
3.6.1	 For purposes of providing approximate levels of settlement
payments to Network Level Accounts and Omnibus Custodial
Accounts (defined in 5.2.1 and 5.5, respectively), the Plan will
calculate a “Provisional Allocation.” The Provisional Allocation is
based upon the sum of the Total Adjusted Profits as best estimated
at the time of the calculation and the Initial Funding of the GrossUp Account. For Omnibus Custodial Accounts, the Provisional
Allocation shall be based on the amount of Adjusted Profits
allocable to the total shares for each Alliance Fund in the Custodial
Account; in the IDC’s discretion, the Provisional Allocation also
may be based upon a refined calculation based upon the total
Alliance Fund shares in all or a subset of the first level of
subaccounts within the Custodial Account (referred to as “Tier
One Accounts”).
3.6.2	 After complete data are received from the Network Accounts and
the Custodial Omnibus Accounts, the “Final Allocation” will be
undertaken. The Final Allocation is based upon the sum of the
Total Adjusted Profits and the Final Funding to the Gross-Up
Account. This calculation will determine the actual settlement
payments. With respect to Omnibus Custodial Accounts, the Final
Allocation will be based upon the actual holdings by Potentially
Eligible Recipients with investment in Tier One Accounts.
3.6.3	 No notice of the results of the Provisional Allocation will be
provided to any Potentially Eligible Recipient except as noted at

(cont’d)
and repeat the above calculation. This process continues until the total dollars to be
distributed equals the sum of the tentative payments.

10 


Section 5.2 and 5.5, and no notice of the result from the Final
Allocation will be provided to any Potentially Eligible Recipient
whose settlement payment is less than the De Minimis Amount.
3.7	

Final Settlement Account. A “Final Settlement Account” will be
established for queries and disputes, as provided in Section 4.9, and to
cover the Custodial Payment Difference, as provided in Section 5.5.3.
This Final Settlement Account will be maintained as a separate account, or
as a sub-account, of the Fair Fund at the BPD, pending the close of the
Fair Fund distribution, and no administrative charges will be made against
it.
3.7.1	 The Final Settlement Amount initially will be funded with $13.6
million – the difference between $200 million and the Total
Adjusted Profits (the “Reserve Amount”).
3.7.2	 Interest accrued on the Fair Fund assets after the Calculation CutOff Date will be remitted to the Final Settlement Account, after
provision for any taxes.
3.7.3	 Interest accrued on the Escrow Account, described at Section 9.3,
will be remitted to the Final Settlement Account at the Escrow
Account’s termination, after provision for any taxes.
3.7.4	 Any unclaimed settlement amounts (e.g., uncashed or
undeliverable checks) distributed from the Fair Fund shall be
remitted to the Final Settlement Account, provided, however, that
returned checks shall first go through the process described below
at Section 4.5.2. Unclaimed settlement amounts from distributions
by Brokers or Omnibus Custodians shall be returned promptly to
the Fund Administrator and remitted to the Final Settlement
Account.
3.7.5	 Any residual amount in the Final Settlement Account after all
assets have been distributed will be remitted to the Alliance Funds,
based on the proportion of Adjusted Losses incurred in each
Alliance Fund, after provisions for any taxes have been made and
prior to the termination of the Fair Fund, as described below at
Section 9.

3.8	

As noted in Section 3.5, no settlement payments will be made to NonTimer Accounts determined prior to the Calculation Cut-Off Date to be in
escheatment and any settlement payment that might otherwise be made
will be remitted to the Gross-Up Account. Payments to Non-Timer

11 


Accounts determined on or after the Calculation Cut-Off Date to be in
escheatment will be remitted to the Final Settlement Account.
C. DISTRIBUTION OF THE ALLOCATED AMOUNTS
4.	

General Distribution Procedures
4.1	

Rust Consulting, Inc. (“Rust”) will serve as the administrator of the Fair
Fund (the “Fund Administrator”) and will be compensated by Alliance
Capital. Rust is a third-party service provider which has successfully
distributed over $1.8 billion to 9.6 million payees over the past three
years.
4.1.1	 In coordination with the IDC, Rust will be responsible for, among
other tasks: overseeing the administration of the Fair Fund,
obtaining accurate mailing information for shareholders, preparing
accountings, cooperating with the Tax Administrator in providing
the information necessary to accomplish the income tax
compliance, distributing money from the Fair Fund to Non-Timers
in accordance with this Plan, establishing a public website for
posting information on the Fair Fund, and setting up and staffing a
call center to address shareholder questions or concerns regarding
the distribution.

4.2	

The Fund Administrator will provide customer support and
communications programs for Non-Timers. These programs will become
active at least by the time the first distribution occurs and will continue
until the date defined in 4.3.1 below. These services will include a toll-free
number and a website accessible to the public.
4.2.1	 The Commission retains the right to review and approve any
material posted on the website.
4.2.2	 Subject to Section 4.2.1, and at the direction of the Commission
Staff, the Fair Fund website may include information regarding
those Brokers, Omnibus Custodians or possible others who decline
to participate in this distribution process, or who fail to provide
sufficient data by the deadlines set forth in this Plan.

4.3	

It is anticipated that settlement payments will be made principally with
checks. Settlement payment checks shall state that they must be presented
no later than 90 days after date of issuance and shall be submitted and
honored pursuant to a “positive pay” system.

12 


4.3.1	 Unless the IDC determines the period should be extended, the
checking account(s) on which the settlement payments from the
Fair Fund are drawn shall be closed no later than the end of the
calendar quarter immediately following 180 days after the last
check is issued.
4.4	

To the extent it is practical, prior to the Calculation Cut-Off Date all
addresses for settlement payments to be mailed are to be verified with the
National Change of Address Database.
4.4.1	 In the IDC’s discretion, and in consultation with Alliance Capital
and the Fund Administrator, additional pre-payment verification
may be required in connection with settlement payments of $1,000
and over per Eligible Recipient.
4.4.2	 Such verification may include searches of more specialized
databases prior to the mailing of large checks, or to require that
settlement payments of over-a-certain amount be paid to an active
account electronically, or by check to an address certified in
writing by the Eligible Recipient.
4.4.3	 If no address for a payment can be validated following the abovereferenced process, no check will be processed and the moneys for
that payment will be remitted to the Gross-Up Account pursuant to
Section 3.5.

4.5	

The following procedures shall be used for checks which may be returned
or undeliverable:
4.5.1	 Undeliverable checks returned for the first time by United States
Postal Services (“USPS”) with a new forwarding address will be
resent to the new address. The Fair Fund database (the “Database”)
will be updated with the new address.
4.5.2	 Information regarding undeliverable checks returned by USPS for
the first time without a new forwarding address will be updated in
the Database. For checks so returned in an amount equal to or
greater than $25, a search will be performed using private search
resources to locate a new address.
4.5.2.1 If a new address is found, it will be added to the Database,
and the check will be resent to that address.

13 


4.5.2.2 If a new address is not found, a void file will be sent to the
Bank, as defined below at Section 7.2.2. The original
check will be destroyed and the moneys remitted to the
Final Settlement Account. Any additional efforts to identify
the addresses of Eligible Recipients will be conducted as is
considered commercially reasonable in the discretion of
IDC.
4.5.2.3 Checks returned for amounts under $25 will be voided, and
the moneys remitted to the Final Settlement Account.
4.5.3	 Undeliverable checks returned by USPS with a new forwarding
address from a second attempted mailing will be resent to that
address. The Database will be updated with the new address.
4.5.4	 Information regarding undeliverable checks returned by USPS
without a new forwarding address from a second attempted
mailing will be updated in the Database. A void file will be sent to
the Bank and the undeliverable check destroyed. Additional
efforts to identify the addresses of Eligible Recipients will be
conducted as is considered commercially reasonable in the
discretion of IDC.
4.6	

Upon request of the recipient received prior to the final distribution, funds
may be paid by wire transfer. When wire transfers cannot be completed,
the receiver will be contacted to clarify the wiring instructions. Any
request for a wire transfer in an amount less than $100 may be assessed a
fee customary for such transfers.

4.7	

The Fair Fund is not being distributed according to a claim-made process,
so the procedures for providing notice and for making and approving
claims are not applicable

4.8	

Information Accompanying Settlement Payments:
4.8.1	 All payments under this Plan shall be preceded or accompanied by
a communication that includes, as appropriate: (a) a statement
characterizing the distribution; (b) a description of the tax
information reporting and other related tax matters; (c) a statement
that checks will be void after 90 days; and (d) where to obtain
additional information in the event of questions regarding the
distribution.

14 


4.8.2	 Any such information letter or other mailing to recipients
characterizing their distributions shall be submitted to the assigned
Commission staff for review and approval. Distribution checks, on
their face, or the accompanying mailing, will clearly indicate that
the money is being distributed from an SEC Fair Fund.
4.9	

All inquiries and disputes concerning this Plan will be directed to the IDC
by the Fund Administrator. The IDC will receive and address them
according to a procedure to be described on the Fair Fund website no later
than the Calculation Cut-Off Date. The general principles of the procedure
are as follows:
4.9.1	 Inquiries and disputes may address only (a) whether an Account
was incorrectly excluded from the distribution or (b) whether a
settlement payment under this Plan was based upon an incorrect
number of shares held in its Account. Prior to the Cut-Off Date,
any settlement payments related to these two dispute categories
will be included in the Gross-Up Calculation (Cf Section 3.5); and
after the Cut-Off Date, any settlement payments related to these
two dispute categories will be made from the Final Settlement
Account on a first-come first-served basis. After the Cut-Off Date,
the Final Settlement Fund will be the sole source of funds available
to resolve such disputes.
4.9.2	 The dispute resolution procedure may not be used to contest any
other aspect of the Plan or any Eligible Recipient’s settlement
payment. As to all such other issues, the determination of the IDC
is conclusive and shall control, and no process for disputing,
contesting or appealing the determinations of the IDC are
contemplated by the Plan.
4.9.3	 The IDC will resolve the disputes described in 4.9.1 in his sole
discretion, and his decisions will be final. A Non-Timer must
assert its inquiry or dispute within 45 calendar days of the mailing
or transfer date of the relevant settlement payment, and in any
event, no later than 45 calendar days after the final settlement
payments are mailed or transferred, which date will be announced
on the Fair Fund website. A Timer must submit any inquiry or
dispute within 45 days after Plan approval.
4.9.4	 When there are no inquiries in a two-month period, but in any
event, no later than six months after the final disbursements, this
procedure will terminate.

15 


5.	

4.10	

From the time that this Plan receives Final Approval until the termination
of the Fair Fund, the Fund Administrator will provide the Commission
staff and the IDC with a quarterly accounting of all monies earned or
received and all monies spent in connection with the administration of the
Plan and will submit a final accounting for approval by the Commission
prior to termination of the Fair Fund and discharge of the Fund
Administrator. This accounting shall be made during the first ten days of
each calendar quarter.

4.11	

In addition, the Fund Administrator on a monthly basis will provide the
IDC with preliminary results regarding amounts earned or received and
spent on plan distribution. The format and scope of such reports will be
determined by the IDC, in consultation with the Fund Administrator.

Distributions By Account Category
5.1	

Direct Accounts.
Settlement payments to Eligible Recipients with Registered Accounts who
do not fall within another account category in this Section 5 will be made
directly to the Eligible Recipient by a check sent to the address determined
in Section 4.4.

5.2	

Network Level Accounts.
5.2.1	 As to an Eligible Recipient who invested in Alliance Funds
through a broker or other third-party (the “Broker”) and whose
Registered Account data appear only partially on the books and
records of the Alliance Funds (the “Network Level Accounts”), the
following process shall apply:
5.2.1.1 The Fund Administrator shall send settlement payments
directly to those Eligible Recipients for whom sufficient
identifying information is available through Alliance
Capital, providing the relevant Broker does not elect to
make such payments directly, as provided in sub-section
5.2.1.2.b.
5.2.1.2 Broker Elections. Where such information is not available
through Alliance Capital, distribution of settlement
payments to Network Level Accounts shall occur as
follows:

16 


a.	

A Broker may provide sufficient payment
identification information to the Fund Administrator
for distribution of the settlement payment by the
Fair Fund to its Network Level Accounts; or

b.	

A Broker may also make settlement payments to its
Network Level Accounts on its own, using the
distribution calculations provided by the Fund
Administrator (and the Broker shall certify in
writing to the IDC, or his designee, that the
distribution has been made within 90 calendar days
after the Calculation Cut-Off Date);6 or

c.	

A Broker may decline to participate in the Fair
Fund distribution as to one or more Network Level
Accounts by notifying the IDC and the Commission
staff in writing or by failing to meet the deadlines
set below. The settlement amount that otherwise
would be distributed to such Network Level
Accounts shall be remitted to the Gross-Up
Account.

5.2.1.3 Timing of Broker Elections. It is the intent of this Plan to
distribute funds expeditiously. Accordingly, prior to the
publication of the Plan, the Fund Administrator notified all
relevant Brokers in writing that Network Level Accounts
for which they have served as intermediary may be eligible
for a distribution from the Fair Fund.7 The notice included
(a) the options set forth in Section 5.2.1.2; (b) the deadlines
set forth in this Section; (c) the total number of Eligible
Recipients under the Provisional Allocation; and (d) the
total Provisional Allocation for such Recipients.
Furthermore, if this Plan is approved by the Commission,
6

In the IDC’s discretion, a Broker may elect a distribution method that combines
5.2.1.2.a and 5.2.1.2.b.

7

Additionally, in June 2006, a written notice was sent to Brokers regarding Network
Level Accounts which could be eligible for distribution from the Fair Fund. This
notice alerted such Brokers of the likelihood that they would be called on to provide
account data to the IDC or his designee, in order for their customers to receive
settlement payments from the Fair Fund.

17 


the IDC or his designee will notify Brokers of the approval
and the following:
a.	

A Broker shall have 15 calendar days from the Final
Approval Date to inform the IDC or his designee in
writing as to how that Broker elects to handle
distribution to any Network Level Account; and

b.	

If a Broker elects to have the Fund Administrator
distribute the settlement payment to be made to its
Network Level Accounts, the Broker shall have 45
calendar days from the Final Approval Date to
provide the Fund Administrator with sufficient
identifying information for the Administrator to
make the settlement payments to the Eligible
Recipients; and

c.	

If, in the IDC’s discretion, failure to meet either
deadline (including the failure to provide sufficient
data by the deadline in 5.2.1.2.c, above) will unduly
delay or complicate distribution, the IDC may, at
any time after the deadlines have passed and with
the approval of the Commission staff, remit the
funds that would otherwise go to such Network
Level Accounts to the Gross-Up Account.

d.	

Notwithstanding any prior notice which may have
stated otherwise, the Fund Administrator shall not
provide additional notice or distribute settlement
moneys to any Broker whose Network Level
Accounts would receive a Provisional Allocation of
less than $1,000, except to the extent that (i) such
Brokers have previously indicated a desire to
participate or (ii) the settlement payments can be
made as provided in sub-section 5.2.1.1, above.
Funds not distributed for failure to meet this
threshold shall be remitted to the Gross-Up
Account.

5.2.1.4 The Commission staff may extend any deadline contained
in subsection 5.2.1.3 for good cause shown.
5.3	

Collective Accounts and Retirement Accounts (Other Than IRAs and
403b Plan Accounts)

18 


5.3.1	 Collective Accounts. Settlement payments from the Fair Fund
shall also be made by check to Eligible Recipients whose
Registered Accounts owned shares in the Alliance Fund in trust for
a group of beneficiaries, such as trusts and 529 plans or other
pooled vehicles (“Collective Accounts”). Collective Accounts,
however, shall not include Retirement Plans addressed in 5.3.2,
IRA and 403(b) Plan accounts addressed in 5.4, or Omnibus
Custodial Accounts, which are addressed in Section 5.5. Checks
for Collective Accounts will be payable to Eligible Recipients,
who will usually be sponsors, trustees or similar agents for the
Collective Account (“Collective Account Agents”).
5.3.1.1 In deciding how it will allocate the monies received under
this Plan, the Collective Account Agent must distribute the
monies received in accordance with its fiduciary,
contractual, and legal obligations (including, but not
limited to, the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code),
and consistent, where applicable, with guidance issued by
the Department of Labor (the “DOL”).
5.3.1.2 If the Collective Account Agent determines that doing so
would meet the requirements of Section 5.3.1.1, it is
consistent with this Plan for settlement payments to be
allocated (a) pro rata or per capita to current Collective
Account participants; or (b) if the Collective Account
Agent determines that option (a) is not reasonably practical
or cost-effective, depositing the settlement payment in an
account chosen by the Collective Account Agent for use in
accordance with the Collective Account’s governance rules
or practices.
5.3.2	 Retirement Plan Accounts (Other Than IRAs and 403b Plan
Accounts). “Retirement Plan” as used in this Plan means any
account of an “employee benefit plan” as defined in section 3(3) of
ERISA, which is not an Individual Retirement Account (“IRA”) or
a 403(b) Plan, whether or not the plan is subject to Title I of
ERISA. Distributions to IRAs and 403(b) Plan accounts will be
made in accordance with Section 5.4, below. Upon completing the
calculation of the Final Allocation, the Fund Administrator will use
its best efforts to identify Registered Accounts for retirement
accounts that are neither IRA nor 403(b) plans (“Retirement
Plans”) from information provided by transfer agency records,
Alliance Capital or other sources. Subject to Section 5.3.2.1, and in

19 


accordance with Sections 4.4 to 4.6 the Fund Administrator will
then use its best efforts to mail and/or transmit notices and
settlement payments to eligible Retirement Plans or their sponsors,
service providers or the like using the identification information
gathered by the Fund Administrator.
5.3.2.1 With respect to eligible Retirement Plans that are entitled to
Final Allocations of $1,000 or more (“Eligible Retirement
Plans”):
a.	

The Fund Administrator, upon completion of the
Final Allocation, will mail notice to each of the
Eligible Retirement Plans of its respective
distribution amount. Such notice will be sent via
USPS to the Eligible Retirement Plan’s last known
address of record.

b.	

In order to allow as much time as practicable under
the Plan for such Eligible Retirement Plan to select
a methodology for distribution of settlement
payments (as further described below in Section
5.3.2.2) and, as appropriate, notify the plan-level
fiduciary of the same, the Fund Administrator shall
use best efforts, subject to any other requirements of
this Plan, to complete distributions to all other
Eligible Recipients prior to distributing to Eligible
Retirement Plan.

5.3.2.2 The Eligible Retirement Plan shall distribute any monies
received pursuant to the Plan in accordance with its
fiduciary, contractual, and legal obligations (including, but
not limited to, the requirements of the Internal Revenue
Code), and consistent, where applicable, with guidance
issued by the DOL including, but not limited to, 13
Department of Labor Field Assistance Bulletin No. 2006
01, April 19, 2006.
a.	

Subject to Section 5.3.2.2, an intermediary (as that
term is used in the Field Assistance Bulletin,
without regard to whether the Plan is subject to
ERISA) to one or more Retirement Plans may
allocate the proceeds it receives pursuant to the Plan
to or among eligible Retirement Plans participating
in an omnibus account administered by such

20 


intermediary according to the procedures set forth
in Sections 5.5-5.5.7 or according to average share
or dollar balance of the Retirement Plan’s
investment in the Alliance Funds during the
relevant period, provided, however, that for the
purposes of such allocation each Retirement Plan
itself (and not the individual plan participant) shall
be treated as beneficial owner.
b.	

Subject to Section 5.3.2.2, the fiduciary of a
Retirement Plan (as that term is used in the Field
Assistance Bulletin, without regard to whether the
Plan is subject to ERISA) receiving a distribution
may distribute it pursuant to one of the following
alternatives (which are not necessarily the only
methods available for plan fiduciaries to follow in
allocating amounts received by or on behalf of
Retirement Plans pursuant to this Plan): (1) Plan
fiduciaries may allocate the distribution amount to
current and former participants in the Retirement
Plan in accordance with such participants’ account
balances using balance information on a daily,
monthly, quarterly or yearly basis; (2) Plan
fiduciaries may allocate the distribution amount pro
rata (based on total account balance) among the
account of all persons who are currently participants
in the Retirement Plan (whether or not they are
currently employees); (3) Plan fiduciaries may
allocate the distribution amount per capita among
the accounts of all persons who are currently
participants in the Retirement Plan (whether or not
they are currently employees); or (4) To the extent
that none of the three preceding alternatives is
administratively feasible because the costs of
effecting the allocation exceed the amount of the
distribution, plan fiduciaries may, to the extent
permitted by the Retirement Plan, use the
distribution amount to pay the reasonable expenses
of administering the plan.

5.3.3	 In view of, among other things, alternative distribution
methodologies available to Eligible Retirement Plans, including
those set forth above, Eligible Retirement Plans will not be

21 


reimbursed for the costs and expenses associated with the
administration of the Distribution Plan.
5.4	

IRAs and 403(b) Plan Accounts. Settlement checks issued to eligible
IRAs and 403(b) Plan accounts shall be made payable to the relevant
Registered Account, which is anticipated to be the trustee or custodian of
record, or their successor. Such checks shall be sent, where such
information is made available, to the Beneficial Owner, and where such
information is not available, to the Registered Account at the address
determined by Section 4.4. It shall be the responsibility of the Beneficial
Owner to negotiate the settlement payment consistent with applicable tax
obligations.

5.5	

Omnibus Custodial Accounts. Some investors in Alliance Funds hold
shares through a Registered Account of a financial intermediary
(“Omnibus Custodian”), as custodian for more than one shareholder
(“Omnibus Custodial Accounts”).
5.5.1	 Additional distribution calculations will have to be made in
connection with Omnibus Custodial Accounts. As of the
submission date of the Plan, the only loss that can be calculated
with respect to any single Omnibus Account is the amount of its
Provisional Allocation.
5.5.2	 Alliance does not have a direct relationship with the Tier One
Accounts within Omnibus Custodial Accounts and does not have
its own access to the accountholders’ identities or their individual
positions. Custodians do have at least limited data regarding their
customers’ identity and their positions in such omnibus accounts.
Given the lack of direct contractual relationship between Alliance
Capital and Tier One Accounts, and the varied information each
Custodian may have as to its own sub-accounts, a fair and efficient
method of calculating the amounts to be paid Tier One Accounts in
Omnibus Custodial Accounts would be to apply the Adjusted
Profit methodology to quarterly (rather than monthly or daily) sub
account data.
5.5.3	 Allocation to Tier One Accounts shall be made as follows:
5.5.3.1 Once data are obtained from each Custodian pursuant to
5.5.4 below, it may be that the Final Allocation exceeds the
Provisional Allocation. This difference is referred to herein
as the “Custodial Payment Difference.” In such
circumstances, and subject to 5.5.3.2, below, Tier One

22 


Accounts will be paid their proportionate shares of the
Final Allocation, to be supplemented, from the Reserve
Amount, as available.
5.5.3.2 If the Reserve Amount is insufficient to fully cover the
Custodial Payment Difference as to all relevant Omnibus
Accounts, the Reserve Amount shall be distributed among
Tier One Accounts in proportion to their Adjusted Profits.
5.5.4	 Omnibus Custodian Elections. Calculation and distribution of
settlement payments to Tier One Accounts will occur as follows:
5.5.4.1 The Custodian may provide sufficient sub-account trading
data and payment identification information to the IDC or
his designee for calculation and distribution of the
settlement payment by the Fair Fund to Tier One Accounts;
or
5.5.4.2 The Custodian may provide sufficient sub-account trading
data and payment identification information to the IDC or
his designee for calculation of the settlement payment by
the Fair Fund to the Tier One Account. The Custodian will
then distribute the settlement payments based on the
calculation by the IDC or his designee;8 or
5.5.4.3 A Custodian may decline to participate in the Fair Fund
distribution as to one or more Tier One Accounts by
notifying the IDC and the Commission in writing or by
failing to meet the deadlines set below. The settlement
amount that otherwise would be distributed to from the
Fund Account shall be remitted to the Gross-Up Account;
or
5.5.4.4 If the amount of Adjusted Profit Loss, in all of the Omnibus
Fund Accounts of the Custodian, is less than $50,000, a
Custodian, in its discretion, may distribute the amount of
the Custodial Loss among customers as appropriate under
the circumstances, or the Custodian can decline to
participate in the distribution. If the Custodian declines to
8

In the IDC’s discretion, an Omnibus Custodian may elect a distribution method that
combines 5.5.4.1 and 5.5.4.2.

23 


participate, the settlement account otherwise distributed to
that Fund Account shall be remitted to the Gross-Up
Account.
5.5.5	 Timing of Elections. It is the intent of this Plan to distribute funds
expeditiously. Accordingly, prior to the publication of this Plan,9
the IDC, through Rust, notified each relevant Omnibus Custodian
in writing (a) that one or more of its Custodial Omnibus Accounts
may be eligible to receive a settlement payment from the Fair
Fund; (b) the total Provisional Allocation; (c) the options as set
forth in 5.5.4, above; and (d) the proposed deadlines set forth here.
Furthermore, if this Plan is approved by the Commission, the IDC
or his designee will notify the relevant Omnibus Custodians of the
approval and the following:
5.5.5.1 A Custodian shall have 15 calendar days from the Final
Approval Date to inform the IDC or his designee as to how
the Custodian elects to handle the settlement payments to
any Tier One Account; and
5.5.5.2 If a Custodian elects to participate under sub-sections
5.5.4.1 or 5.5.4.2, the Custodian shall have 45 calendar
days from the Final Approval Date to provide the IDC or
his designee with sufficient data for the IDC or his designee
to perform settlement payment calculations (reasonable
out-of-pocket costs incurred by a Custodian in gathering
such demographic information may be reimbursed as an
administrative cost of the Fair Fund under Section 1.5.2,
subject to prior notice to the Fund Administrator, or other
designee of the IDC, of the anticipated method of data
generation and estimated cost, as well as timely
presentation of detailed invoices, which shall be
satisfactory to the IDC); and
5.5.5.3 If, in the IDC’s discretion, the failure to meet either
deadline (including the failure to provide sufficient data by
the deadline in 5.5.4.3 above) will unduly delay or
9

Additionally, in 2006, the relevant Omnibus Custodians were notified that one or
more Fund Accounts traded in their names appear to be eligible for distribution from
the Fair Fund and requested sufficient data for the IDC and his designees to begin the
process of performing distribution calculations at the Tier One Account level.

24 


complicate distribution, or the Custodian fails to provide
the certification described in Section 5.5.6.1, the IDC may,
at any time after the deadlines have passed, and with the
approval of the Commission staff, remit the funds that
would otherwise go to such Omnibus Custodial Account to
the Gross-Up Account.
5.5.6	 If a Custodian elects under Section 5.5.4.2 to make settlement
payments to Tier One Accounts, it shall:
5.5.6.1 no later than the deadline set in Section 5.5.5.2, certify that
it will make commercially reasonable efforts consistent
with its legal, fiduciary and contractual duties, as
applicable, to disburse the payment received to affected
Tier One Accounts, in accordance with the Distribution
Plan, and that it will return any undistributed funds to the
Fair Fund for disposition in accordance with the Plan; and
5.5.6.2 within 90 calendar days after the Calculation Cut-Off Date,
the Custodian shall certify in writing to the IDC, or his
designee, that the settlement payments have been made and
in compliance with these requirements and with all
applicable tax provisions.
5.5.7	 The Commission staff may extend any deadline contained in
subsection 5.5.5 for good cause shown.
6.	

The Final Distribution
6.1	

It is anticipated that the IDC and his designees shall, within 110 days of
the Final Approval Date, identify eligible accounts, determine the total of
the Gross-Up Account, and do the Final Allocation. By 150 days after the
Final Approval Date, it is anticipated that the Fund Administrator will
have prepared necessary information for printing of checks and completed
other administrative tasks associated with the distribution.

6.2	

In order to distribute the funds, the IDC or his designee will submit a
validated list of payees and the payment amounts (the “Payee List”) to the
assigned Commission staff, who will obtain authorization to disburse
pursuant to Rule 1101(b)(6). The Payee List will be validated by the Fund
Administrator in coordination with the IDC. The Commission Secretary
shall issue a distribution order pursuant to Rule 1101(b)(6) on receipt of
the Payee List.

25 


6.2.1	 If the Payee List includes settlement payments requiring reporting
to the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”), the list also shall be
submitted to the Tax Administrator, who shall validate the Payee
List and provide the IDC and Fund Administrator with information
necessary to perform any required withholding and shall also file
any required reports and related deposits with the IRS.
6.2.2	 The validation will state that the Payee List was compiled in
accordance with the Plan and provides all information necessary to
make disbursement to each distributee. To the extent necessary to
ensure confidentiality of information of Non-Timers, the Payee
List will identify accounts by number only; provided however, that
the QSF, as defined below at Section 9.1, and the IDC (or his
designee) will maintain, for a period of time not to exceed 40
months (unless otherwise directed by the Commission), a version
of each Payee List which includes the names, addresses and tax
identification numbers of the Non-Timers receiving settlement
payments.
6.2.3	 Unless otherwise directed by the Commission, the Commission
staff will obtain an Order Directing Disbursement that releases
funds to the bank account established by the Fund Administrator
based upon the validated list and a representation by the Fund
Administrator that commercially reasonable efforts will be made to
ensure that the checks or wires will be issued within the next
business day. It is anticipated that the Commission may require
that transfers of funds from the BPD be made in waves (and,
therefore, checks be sent out in batches), to limit the amount of
money held at any given time in the Fair Fund’s bank account. The
Tax Administrator shall provide the Commission with a demand
for funds necessary to accomplish any tax deposits regarding
settlement payments subject to reporting or withholding.
D. OTHER MATTERS
7.	

Fair Fund Asset Protection
7.1	

Under the Plan, (a) the Fund Administrator will have no custody, and
restricted control, of the Fair Fund; (b) the Fund will be held by BPD until
immediately before transmittal of checks or wires to eligible investors; (c)
upon transfer from BPD, funds will be held in an Escrow Account,
separate from Bank assets and described below at Section 9.3, until
presentation of a check or wire, at which time funds will be transferred to
a controlled distribution account; (d) presented checks or wires will be

26 


subject to “positive pay” controls before honored by the Bank; and (e)
both the Bank and the Fund Administrator will maintain, throughout this
process, insurance and/or a financial institution bond that covers errors
and omissions, misfeasance, and fraud.
7.2	

In lieu of bond, the following additional steps are proposed to help protect
Fair Fund assets from waste, misappropriation and dissipation during the
Distribution Process:
7.2.1	 The Escrow Bank, which will hold Plan assets during the checkcashing period, maintains a Financial Institutions (FI) Bond
including errors and omissions coverage with an aggregate limit of
200 MM Euro. The primary insurer is American International
Group, which, as of its most recent renewal, was rated A+ by A.M.
Best. The Escrow Bank has 200 MM Euro of E&O insurance. In
addition, the Escrow Bank has a bankers blanket bond of 250 MM
Euro from Chubb (which is rated A++ by A.M. Best), which the
Escrow Bank has advised the IDC includes coverage for wrongful
acts (i.e., an act, errors and omissions, misstatement, etc.) or failure
to safeguard proprietary information in connection with rendering
of professional services. The Fund Administrator has $10 million
in E&O insurance, as well as $2 million fiduciary insurance. The
Escrow Bank annually assesses the adequacy of its policy limits
through extensive analysis of historical loss data, exposure to loss
and internal company controls.
The Fund Administrator maintains and will continue to maintain
until termination of the Plan, an errors and omissions insurance
policy. The primary insurer, Illinois Union Insurance Co, is a
company which, as of its most recent renewal, was rated A+ by
A.M. Best. The policy is in the amount of $10 million per
occurrence. The Fund Administrator also maintains, and will
continue to maintain until termination of the Plan, a fiduciary
insurance policy. The primary insurer, St. Paul Companies, is a
company which, as of its most recent renewal, was rated A+ by
A.M. Best. The policy is in the amount of $2 million per
occurrence. The Fund Administrator’s print vendor maintains and
will continue to maintain until termination of the Plan, an errors
and omissions insurance policy. The primary insurer, Illinois
Union Insurance Co (ACE USA), is a company which, as of its
most recent renewal, was rated A+ by A.M. Best. The policy is in
the amount of $25 million per occurrence. Under the Plan, at no
time will there be funds under the custody and control of the Fund

27 


Administrator that exceed the amount covered by insurance.
Certificates of insurance for these policies have been provided to
the assigned Commission Staff for review and have been deemed
“not unacceptable.”
7.2.2	 Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas (“Deutsche Bank” or the
“Bank”) will hold Fair Fund assets during the check-cashing
period in an account or accounts in the name of the QSF, as
defined at Section 9.1, and carrying its Tax Identification Number,
with duplicate statements provided to the IDC and the Tax
Administrator. Deutsche Bank maintains a Financial Institutions
(FI) Bond, including errors and omissions coverage with an
aggregate limit of 200,000,000 Euro E&O and a banker’s blanket
bond of 250,000,000 Euro. Its insurance carriers include one rated
“A+” by A.M. Best and another rated “A++” by A.M. Best.
Deutsche Bank annually assesses the adequacy of its policy limits
through extensive analysis of historical loss data, exposure to loss
and internal company controls. Deutsche Bank limits are reviewed
annually.
7.2.3	 The Fund Administrator’s check protection and back office
processes include:
7.2.3.1 Debit blocks are used on accounts to prevent unauthorized
wires out of an account. Wire transfers require the
approval of only individuals authorized in advance with the
bank;
7.2.3.2 Secure areas are maintained for all check stock with only
approved individuals having access to the vault;
7.2.3.3 Background and credit checks are performed on all
employees involved in the distribution process;
7.2.3.4 Security features on check stock are used, which include
void pantographs to prevent coping, micro-printed
signature lines, and watermarks embedded in the stock;
7.2.3.5 Job responsibilities among employees of the Fund
Administrator are divided such that the calculation of
amounts, preparation of files, submitting files to the bank
and the like are all separate duties; and

28 


7.2.3.6 Total mailing pieces are compared to batch totals to
confirm that all checks have been prepared for mailing, and
postal receipts are maintained and archived to confirm that
all printed checks were mailed.
8.	

Payments By Other Respondents
8.1	

Pursuant to their own regulatory settlements in respect of market timing
and/or late trading, other participants in the mutual fund industry (the
“Other Respondents”) may owe settlement payments to Non-Timers in
Alliance Funds.

8.2	

To the extent such settlement payments from Other Respondents relate to
trading in the ten Alliance Funds during the Relevant Period, and provided
that, in the discretion of the IDC, doing so would be cost-effective, not
present any complicating tax or other issues, and not delay settlement
payments from the Fair Fund, the identification of payees and calculation
of settlement payments from Other Respondents may be coordinated with
those made by the Fair Fund, up to the point of printing and mailing
checks.
8.2.1	 The amount of settlement payments by an Other Respondent shall
be calculated using a methodology adopted by the IDC of that
Respondent’s Fair Fund.
8.2.2	 Such settlement payments shall be mailed separately from
settlement payments from the Fair Fund Assets, with printing and
mailing costs to be borne solely by the Other Respondent(s).
8.2.3	 In order to coordinate its settlement payments with those of the
Alliance Fair Fund, the Fair Fund of an Other Respondent shall
establish a direct contractual relationship for that purpose with the
Fund Administrator.
8.2.4	 Costs of such coordinated efforts, including any costs already
incurred for these purposes, may be divided among other Fair
Funds or Respondents, based on the relative proportion of the total
amount distributed.

8.3	

The Fair Fund shall not undertake coordination of the distribution of any
moneys from the Fair Funds of Other Respondents to Alliance Funds
except as set out above.

29 


9.	

Tax Provisions
9.1	

The Fair Fund constitutes a Qualified Settlement Fund (“QSF”) under
Section 468B(g) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. §468B(g), and
related regulations, 26 C.F.R. §§1.468B-1 through 1.468B-5.

9.2	

The Commission has appointed Damasco & Associates as the Tax
Administrator (“Tax Administrator”) of the Fund. Order Directing
Appointment Of Tax Administrator, in the Matter of Certain
Disgorgement and Fair Funds in Administrative Proceedings, Exchange
Act Rel. No. 51341, March 9, 2005. The IDC, Fund Administrator, and
Alliance Capital will cooperate with the Tax Administrator in providing
information necessary to accomplish the income tax compliance, ruling
and advice work assigned to the Tax Administrator by the Commission.
The Tax Administrator shall be compensated by Alliance Capital. The
Tax Administrator has obtained a Private Letter Ruling regarding the tax
information reporting and withholding obligations of the QSF. A
communication summarizing the PLR as to reporting requirements will be
made available to Eligible Recipients.

9.3	

The assets of the Fair Fund are subject to the continuing jurisdiction and
control of the Commission. The Fair Fund is currently deposited at the
BPD. Upon approval of the Plan, the Fund Administrator shall establish
an account at Deutsche Bank, as further described at Section 7.2.2., in the
name of and bearing the Taxpayer Identification Number of the QSF (the
“Escrow Account”).
9.3.1	 Following approval of the Plan and submission by the IDC of a list
of payees and amounts to the Commission staff and all information
necessary to make disbursement to each distributee, unless
otherwise directed by the Commission, the Commission staff shall
cause the balance in the Fair Fund to be deposited in the account
established by the Fund Administrator in the name of and bearing
the Taxpayer Identification Number of the Qualified Settlement
Fund (“QSF account”). The Fund Administrator shall be the
signer on the QSF account, subject to the continuing jurisdiction
and control of the Commission. The Fund Administrator shall
authorize Deutsche Bank to provide account information to the
Tax Administrator.
9.3.2	 The Fund Administrator shall use the assets and earnings of the
Fair Fund to provide payments to Eligible Recipients and to
provide the Tax Administrator with assets to pay tax liabilities and
tax compliance fees and costs. The QSF account shall be invested

30 


in short-term U.S. Treasury securities, all backed by the full faith
and credit of the U.S. Government, of a type and term necessary to
meet the cash requirements of the payments to Eligible Recipients,
tax obligations and fees; provided however, that investments in the
U.S. Treasury securities will not be made through repurchase
agreements or other derivative products.
9.3.3	 Duplicate statements of the Escrow Account shall be provided to
the IDC and the Tax Administrator. Any and all taxes payable on
account of income earned by the money in the Escrow Account
shall be paid from funds in the Escrow Account, and the escrow
agent is expressly authorized and directed to work with the IDC,
Alliance Capital, and the Tax Administrator to make such
payments.
9.3.4	 Upon approval of the Plan by the Commission, the IDC, the Fund
Administrator, and the Bank shall further establish a controlled
disbursement account in the name of and bearing the Taxpayer
Identification Number of the Fair Fund (the “Distribution
Account”). All funds will remain in the Escrow Account pursuant
to the Escrow Agreement until needed to satisfy a presented check
or wire instruction. At that time, and subject to the controls set
forth below, the amount needed to satisfy any presented check will
be transferred to the Distribution Account and immediately paid
out. For any payment to be made by wire instruction, and subject
to the controls set forth below, funds will be paid from the Escrow
Account in accordance with written instructions provided by
parties authorized by the Escrow Agreement.
9.3.5	 The Fund Administrator shall be the signer on the Distribution
Account, subject to the continuing jurisdiction and control of the
Commission. The Fund Administrator shall authorize the Bank to
provide information on the Escrow Account and the Distribution
Account to the Tax Administrator.
9.3.6	 The Bank has provided the IDC with an attestation that all funds in
the Escrow Account and the Distribution Account will be held for
this Plan and that the Bank will not place any lien or encumbrance
of any kind upon the funds. No cost associated with the Escrow
Account and the Distribution Account will be treated as costs to
the Fair Fund. Upon the Bank’s receipt of funds from the BPD,
the Bank shall promptly deposit the funds into the Escrow
Account.

31 


10.	

11.	

Post-Distribution Issues
10.1	

It is the intent of this Plan that the process of distributing substantially all
settlement payments from the Fair Fund (or in the case of Omnibus
Custodial Accounts, amounts to be paid, calculated and ready for transfer
to Custodian) will begin on or before 170 days after the Final Approval
Date. The Fund Administrator will use its best efforts to complete
distribution within six months from the beginning of the distribution.

10.2	

Upon distribution of the funds, the Fund Administrator shall make
arrangement for the final payment of taxes and Tax Administrator fees and
shall submit a final accounting to the Commission. The Distribution Fund
shall be eligible for termination after all of the following have occurred:
(1) the Final Accounting by the Administrator has been submitted and
approved by the Commission, (2) all taxes and fees have been paid and
(3) all remaining funds or any residual have been transferred to the U.S.
Treasury. Staff shall seek an order from the Commission to (1) approve
the Final Accounting; (2) approve sending the remaining residual amount
to the United States Treasury after the final tax payment has been made;
and (3) authorize the Secretary of the Commission, upon receipt of notice
from the staff assigned to this matter that all funds have been expended, to
discharge the Fund Administrator.

Limitations of Liability
11.1	

The IDC and the Fund Administrator, and/or each of their designees,
agents and assigns, shall be entitled to rely on any Orders issued in this
proceeding by the Commission, the Secretary by delegated authority, or an
Administrative Law Judge, and may not be held liable to any Potentially
Eligible Recipient or Non-Timer for any act or omission in the course of
administering the Fair Fund, except upon a finding that such act or
omission is caused by such party’s gross negligence, bad faith or willful
misconduct, reckless disregard of duty, or reckless failure to comply with
the terms of the Plan. This paragraph is an expression of the current state
of the law and is not intended, nor should it be deemed to be, a
representation to or an indemnification of the IDC or the Fund
Administrator or their designees, agents and assigns, nor should this
paragraph preclude the Commission or the QSF from seeking redress for
any act or omission in the course of administering the Fair Fund or from
seeking redress from any insurance or bond provided as set forth in this
Plan.

32 


05/14/2008 WED 08:30 FAX 6105257858 


12. 	

Amendment to Plan
12.1 	 The IDC will inform the Commission staff of any material changes in the
Plan and will obtain approval from the Commission prior to their
implementation. If inaterial changes are required, this Plan may be
amended upon the motion of the Respoadenl, the Fund Administrator or
upon the Commission's own motion.

Submitted on:

, 	

BY:&&P~~&
Marshall E. Blume,
1DC for Alliance Capital Management, L.P.

Index of Defined Terms
Page

Account Adjusted Profits.....................................................................................................7 

Alliance Capital ...................................................................................................................1 

Alliance Settlement..............................................................................................................1 

Bank ...................................................................................................................................27 

BPD......................................................................................................................................2 

Broker ................................................................................................................................16 

Calculation Cut-Off Date.....................................................................................................9 

Calugar.................................................................................................................................3 

Calugar Settlement...............................................................................................................3 

Carifa....................................................................................................................................3 

Collective Account Agents ................................................................................................19 

Collective Accounts ...........................................................................................................19 

Commission .........................................................................................................................1 

Custodial Payment Difference ...........................................................................................22 

Database.............................................................................................................................13 

Deutsche Bank ...................................................................................................................27 

Distribution Account..........................................................................................................30 

DOL ...................................................................................................................................19 

Eligible Recipients ...............................................................................................................8 

Eligible Retirement Plans ..................................................................................................20 

Escrow Account .................................................................................................................29 

Fair Fund..............................................................................................................................1 

Fair Fund Assets ..................................................................................................................3 

Final Allocation .................................................................................................................10 

Final Approval Date.............................................................................................................2 

Final Funding .......................................................................................................................9 

Final Settlement Account...................................................................................................10 

FMS....................................................................................................................................16 

Fund Administrator............................................................................................................11 

Gross-Up Account ...............................................................................................................9 

IDC.......................................................................................................................................1 

Initial Funding......................................................................................................................9 

IRS .....................................................................................................................................25 

Laughlin ...............................................................................................................................3 

Malone .................................................................................................................................3 

Network Level Accounts ...................................................................................................16 

Non-Timer(s) .......................................................................................................................6 

Officer Settlements ..............................................................................................................3 

Omnibus Custodial Accounts ............................................................................................21 

Omnibus Custodian............................................................................................................21

Order ....................................................................................................................................1 

Other Respondents .............................................................................................................28 


i


Index of Defined Terms
(continued)
Page
Payee List...........................................................................................................................25 

Plan ......................................................................................................................................1 

PM........................................................................................................................................6 

Potentially Eligible Recipients.............................................................................................7 

Provisional Allocation .......................................................................................................10

QSF ....................................................................................................................................29 

QSF account.......................................................................................................................29 

Registered Account(s)..........................................................................................................7 

Relevant Period....................................................................................................................2 

Reserve Amount.................................................................................................................11 

Retirement Plans ................................................................................................................19 

Rust ....................................................................................................................................11 

SBI .......................................................................................................................................3 

SEC ......................................................................................................................................1 

Tax Administrator..............................................................................................................29 

Tier One Accounts .............................................................................................................10 

Timers ..................................................................................................................................4 

Total Adjusted Profits ..........................................................................................................6 

USPS ..................................................................................................................................13 


ii 


Exhibit A
REPORT OF MARSHALL E. BLUME ON MARKET TIMING LOSSES
I.

INTRODUCTION
1. 	 I am the Howard Butcher III Professor of Financial Management, Director of
the Rodney L. White Center for Financial Research, and past Chairman of the
Finance Department at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.
I received my MBA and Ph.D. from the University of Chicago.
2. 	 Pursuant to an SEC order, I have been named as the Independent Distribution
Consultant in connection with In the Matter of Alliance Capital Management,
L.P., No. 3-11359. The relevant portion of that order, provides that: “The
Independent Distribution Consultant shall develop a Distribution Plan for the
distribution of all of the $250 million [paid to the U.S. Treasury by Alliance
Capital Management] in disgorgement and penalty to the mutual funds and
their shareholders to compensate fairly and proportionately the funds’
shareholders for losses attributable to market timing trading activity by market
timers with whom Alliance Capital entered into timing arrangements between
January 1, 2001 and September 30, 2003, according to a methodology
developed in consultation with Alliance Capital and the independent directors
of the affected Alliance Capital funds and acceptable to the staff of the
Commission. The Distribution Plan shall provide for fund investors to
receive, in order of priority, (i) their aliquot share of losses suffered by the
fund due to market timing, and (ii) a proportionate share of advisory fees paid
by such fund during the period of such market timing.” [Amended Order
Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, January 15,
2004, Section IV, Part C. Distribution of Disgorgement and Penalty, Subpart
1] In accordance with Section 308 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 15
U.S.C. 7246, and in 17 CFR 201.1100, the moneys paid by Alliance Capital
are referred to as a “Fair Fund.”
3. 	 My convention throughout will be to refer to the 23 individual traders who
engaged in market timing activities pursuant to arrangements with Alliance
Capital as “the timers,” to refer to all other shareholders in the ten Alliance
Capital funds at issue as “the other shareholders,” and to refer to the portfolio
manager of any one of those ten funds as the “PM.”1
4. 	 The present report deals only with Subpart (i) of Section IV C 1 of the
Amended Order, that is, the determination of investors’ “aliquot share of
losses suffered by the fund[s] due to market timing.” The Amended Order
provided that up to $200 million of the Alliance Capital Fair Fund was to be

1

It is my understanding that, based on the parameters set forth in the Amended Order, Alliance
Capital has identified accounts and funds in which specific traders had or may have had
authorization from Alliance Capital to engage in market timing.

1

used to compensate such losses. Under the methodology discussed below, I
have calculated the total losses to be $186.4 million.2
5. 	 This report does not address the calculation or allocation of amounts to be
paid under Subpart (ii), “advisory fees paid by such fund[s] during the period
of such market timing.”3
6. 	 The work of Subpart (i) itself entails two basic steps: first, estimating the
losses to the other shareholders attributable to the timers’ activity, and second,
allocating payments with respect to those losses to the other shareholders.
This report is limited to the first step and describes the methodology I have
developed to calculate losses to the other shareholders. In describing and
illustrating the calculation of losses, at times I focus on the Technology Fund
as an example, because my analysis has shown that losses to the other
shareholders are concentrated in the Technology Fund. I shall submit at a
later date a plan for the second step, the actual distribution from the Fair Fund.
7. 	 Section II of this report describes my methodology. Section III provides
summary statistics on the timers’ activities. Section IV focuses on the
Alliance Capital funds’ accounting, cash management, and investment
policies. Section V summarizes the components of losses to the other
shareholders.
II.

THE ADJUSTED-PROFIT METHODOLOGY
8. 	 Using my adjusted-profit methodology, I calculate total losses, netted over all
the other shareholders and over all ten funds, with interest, to be $186.4
million as of January 16, 2004, the date on which Alliance Capital deposited
the Fair Fund amount with the U.S. Treasury.
9. 	 Adjusted profit is a measure of the loss in wealth incurred by the other
shareholders as a result of the timers’ trades. The adjusted-profit
methodology is so named because the timers’ profits constitute a significant
portion, though not all, of the losses realized by the other shareholders. In
determining these losses, I use an “out-of-pocket” standard based on the
difference between what the other shareholders have in their pockets and what
they would have had but for the timers’ activity. This methodology is

2

This loss is netted over the other shareholders and the ten funds and includes interest through
January 16, 2004. Since some of the other shareholders realized gains of approximately $1
million as a result of the timers’ activities, the total losses to the remainder of the other
shareholders exceed the net losses shown in the text. The aliquot share of losses to be distributed
to those other shareholders who experienced losses will not be reduced by the gains realized by
some of the other shareholders as a result of the timers’ activities.

3

In addition, this report does not address any issues relating to moneys due other shareholders from
the Fair Fund of any other mutual fund industry participant relating to market timing or late
trading by that entity’s employees, affiliates, or customers in Alliance Capital funds.

2

appropriate for the facts in this matter and my charge under the Amended
Order.
10. The adjusted-profit methodology determines the “out-of-pocket” losses to the
other shareholders in two steps: calculating the losses during the period in
which a timer was invested (the investment-period loss), and calculating the
losses after the timer’s redemption (the post-investment-period loss). Both
categories of losses depend on the extent to which the PM invests the timer’s
subscription. The Technical Appendix describes this methodology in detail.
11. Investment-period Loss:
a. 	 If the PM does not invest a timer’s subscription and the timer’s
subscription does not result in additional expenses to the other
shareholders, the timer’s profit during the investment period is equal to the
losses of the other shareholders.4 The profit that the timer earns must
come out of the pockets of the other shareholders. The timer’s profit
during the investment period comes from two sources. First, the timer
may subscribe to a fund at a NAV that is below its fair-market value, or
may redeem from a fund at a NAV above its fair market value, by placing
the order either on or before 4:00 pm or after 4:00 pm (i.e., late trading).
Second, the timer may share in the profits on the assets owned by the other
shareholders. For instance, if the assets of the other shareholders realize a
positive return, the timer shares in those profits and the timer’s share of
those profits comes out of the pockets of the other shareholders. The sum
of these two sources is the timer’s profit.
b. 	 Whatever the fair market value when the timer subscribes or redeems, a
timer’s profit will correctly measure the “out-of-pocket” loss to the other
shareholders when the PM does not invest the timer’s subscription and the
timer’s subscription does not result in additional expenses to the other
shareholders. Thus, the adjusted-profit methodology does not require a
direct estimate of the fair market value at the time of the subscription or
redemption. It should be noted that the subscription of a timer may benefit
the other shareholders, rather than causing them a loss, if the timer
subscribes to a fund at a NAV that is above its fair-market value, if the
timer redeems at a NAV that is below its fair-market value, or if the assets
of the other shareholders experience a loss.
c. 	 If the PM does invest some or all of a timer’s subscription, however, a
portion of the timer’s profit is attributable to the return on the timer’s
invested assets. Here, the timer’s profit should be adjusted, or reduced, by
4

There may be some small overnight earnings on the timers’ subscriptions that would reduce other
shareholders’ losses. However, because of the complexities of “t+1” accounting and transaction
settlement times, the adjusted-profit methodology as implemented in this report makes the
conservative assumption that these earnings are zero.

3

the return on his invested assets to obtain the “out-of-pocket” losses to the
other shareholders. As described in Paragraphs 31-33 below, this
adjustment is undertaken in two steps: an adjustment on the day of the
investment (the buy adjustment), and an adjustment for subsequent days
that the timer remains in the fund (the subsequent-day adjustment).
12. Post-investment-period Loss
a. 	 A timer’s activity could result in post-investment-period losses to the other
shareholders even after the timer has left the fund. For expositional
purposes, assume that the PM invests some or all of the timer’s
subscription. When the timer redeems his investment on day t, the
investments made with the timer’s subscription become assets of the other
shareholders. The earliest that the PM can sell these investments is the
following morning. If the value of the investments declines overnight, this
represents a loss to the other shareholders that would not have occurred in
the absence of the timer. I estimate this loss to the other shareholders
based on the return on the fund’s invested assets from 4:00 pm on the day
of the timer redemption until 10:00 am the next morning (the “redemption
adjustment”). In addition, under my methodology, this post-investment
period loss includes transaction costs incurred as a result of sales of
securities that the PM undertakes in obtaining cash to pay the timer’s
redemption (the “transaction cost adjustment”).
b. 	 If the PM has not invested any of the timer’s subscription, there would be
no redemption adjustment. However, if the timer has made a profit (as
described above in Paragraph 11), there may still be a transaction cost
adjustment to the extent that the PM has to sell securities to fund the
portion of the timer’s redemption that is in excess of the timer’s
uninvested cash.
c. 	 Whatever the fair market value when a timer redeems, the postinvestment-period loss will provide a measure of the “out-of-pocket” loss
to the other shareholders. As with the investment-period loss, it is
possible that the redemption adjustment could benefit the other
shareholders if the value of the fund’s invested assets increases.
13. In applying the adjusted-profit methodology, it is necessary to allocate the
PM’s securities purchases and sales to both the timers and the other
shareholders. The allocation algorithm that I have used is based upon the
principle that a PM reacts in the same way to the subscriptions and
redemptions of both categories of shareholders.
14. The potential magnitude of the investment-period loss is related to that of the
post-investment-period loss. If the PM does not invest any of the timer’s
subscription and the timer causes no other expenses, the investment-period
4

loss is equal to the timer’s profit, and the post-investment-period loss includes
only the transaction costs that may apply to the excess of the timer’s
redemption over the original subscription (i.e., the timer’s profit). If the PM
does invest some or all the timer’s subscriptions, the magnitude of the
investment-period loss may be less than the timer’s profits as these profits
may be reduced by the earnings on the invested assets; however, the
magnitude of the post-investment-period losses may increase due to the
redemption adjustment.
15. In addition to the adjustments described above, I have made an expense
adjustment to account for any change in fund expenses incurred by the other
shareholders as a result of the timers’ activity that can arise because of t+1
accounting.
III.

CHARACTERISTICS OF FUNDS AND THE TIMERS’ ACTIVITIES
A.

Profits of the Timers by Fund

16. Total unadjusted profits of the timers – that is, the amount referred to in
Paragraph 11 – in the ten funds was $123.8 million (Exhibit 1) from Q1 2001
through Q3 2003.5,6 The third and fourth quarters of 2002 were the most
profitable, $63.8 million in total. The timers realized the largest profits in the
Technology Fund, $76.9 million, which represents almost two thirds of the
total profits realized in all ten funds. The next three funds in terms of
profitability were Premier Growth with $19.4 million, Growth and Income
with $11.9 million, and Mid-Cap Growth with $9.4 million. The top four
funds thus accounted for 95 percent of the timers’ total profits.
17. Exhibit 2 provides summary statistics on the daily return realized by the
timers in each fund, weighted by the assets that the timers had in those funds
on each day. The asset-weighted mean daily return across all funds was 0.14
percent. However, there was significant variation in daily returns, and the
timers often experienced losses.
B.

Subscriptions and Redemptions

18. In the first half of 2001, the subscriptions of the timers in the Technology
Fund were 29 percent of total subscriptions in that fund (Exhibit 3). In
subsequent quarters, the timers’ subscriptions became an increasingly
5

Timers’ profits are calculated daily and include distributions; the profits for a quarter or a year are
the sum of the corresponding daily profits. These profits and my subsequent analyses are based on
account numbers that Alliance Capital has identified as those of the timers.

6

Some of the fund names have changed over the period. Mid-Cap Growth was called the Alliance
Fund prior to February 1, 2002, Americas Government Income was called North American
Government Income until some point during fiscal year ending November 30, 2002, and Quasar
became Small Cap Growth after November, 2003.

5

significant proportion of total subscriptions. The subscriptions of the timers in
all ten funds increased from $1.3 billion in Q1 2001 to a high of $6.8 billion in
Q4 2002. The timers’ subscriptions then decreased to $394.6 million in Q3
2003 (Exhibit 4). The total of the timers’ subscriptions from January 1, 2001,
through September 30, 2003 was $36.8 billion. The timers were most active
in the Technology Fund with total subscriptions of $16.4 billion.
C.

Transaction Statistics for the Timers

19. A large proportion of the timers’ round-trip trades7 were only one day in
length – 46 percent of their total round-trip trades and 60 percent of the dollar
value of the associated subscriptions (Exhibit 5). Only nine percent of the
timers’ round trips and six percent of the associated subscriptions were greater
than five days. The average size of a timers’ trade across all funds was $7.0
million.
IV.

	PARTICULARS OF ALLIANCE CAPITAL FUNDS RELEVANT TO
MODELING LOSSES
A.
Alliance Capital’s “t+1” Accounting
20. Alliance Capital uses t+1 accounting. With t+1 accounting, shareholder and
portfolio transactions are not reflected in the NAV until the following day.
The NAV at t+1 is based on security prices at 4:00 pm on day t+1 and
portfolio holdings on day t. The implication is that the NAV at t+1 is the
same whether or not the PM invests, during day t+1, the net subscriptions
made on day t.
21. For example, suppose an individual subscribes to a fund on day t at the NAV
on day t. The earliest that the PM can invest the subscriber’s cash is during
day t+1. The NAV on day t+1 reflects neither the return on this investment
from the time purchased to the market close nor transaction costs. It is not
until day t+2 that the NAV reflects trading activity that occurred during day
t+1.
22. The adjusted-profit methodology properly recognizes the effect of t+1
accounting on the calculation of losses in the investment-period loss, even
though the change in NAV from t to t+1 is the same regardless of any costs
incurred by the fund in investing the timer’s subscription.
B.
Alliance Capital’s Policies on Cash Management
23. It is my understanding that the PMs of the eight equity funds and the High
Yield Fund did not use futures to equitize their cash during the period that the

7

For purposes of this discussion, a “round trip” is defined as a given timer’s subscription, followed
by his redemption in the same class of the same fund, where the total number of shares redeemed
during the round trip is between 99 percent and 101 percent of the total number of shares
subscribed to during the “buy” leg of the round trip.

6

timers were transacting in the funds.8 The PM of the Americas Government
Income Trust did use futures during the year ended September 30, 2003, but
did not use futures during the prior two fiscal years.
24. In the Technology Fund, there was a steady decline in the percentage of assets
in cash, from an average of 10.5 percent in Q1 2001 to 2.0 percent in Q3 2003
(Exhibit 6). The high level of timer activity from Q1 2002 through Q1 2003
does not appear to have had any impact on the rate of this decline, even
though the volatility of the cash ratio did increase.
25. In comparison to the Technology Fund, Premier Growth kept much less of its
assets in cash, averaging 1.0 percent with no clear trend (Exhibit 7). The cash
ratios of the Mid-Cap Growth and the Growth and Income funds declined over
time. However, because their initial cash ratios were much lower than that of
the Technology Fund, the rate of decline was much smaller.
26. Since the timers’ activities do not appear to have had any systematic effect on
cash levels, I make no adjustments related to such possible effects.
C.
Shareholder Flows and PM Trading Activity
27. Exhibit 8 presents the results of a regression of PM trading activity on priorday shareholder flows for the Technology Fund. Except for the period from
Q3 2002 to Q2 2003, the PM does not appear to have invested large
proportions of prior-day subscriptions by timers and the other shareholders.
There was no evidence that the PMs of any of the other equity funds invested
prior-day subscriptions the next day. The sole exception may be the Growth
Fund in which there was some very weak evidence that in certain quarters, the
PM did invest a portion of the prior-day subscriptions the next day. Whether
subscriptions are invested the next day or not, however, the adjusted-profit
methodology accounts for the effect of investing timer subscriptions on the
other shareholders.
D.
Possible Overweighting of Liquid Securities
28. The other shareholders could have suffered losses if the timers’ activities
caused a PM to trade a greater proportion of more liquid securities than he
would have absent the timers. For this to cause losses, the returns to more
liquid securities would have to be lower than the returns to the less liquid
securities the PM would otherwise have purchased during the period of timer
activity. However, it is only when the PM invests the timers’ subscriptions
quickly that this argument could have some merit. The two funds for which
this effect might apply are the Technology Fund and the Growth Fund. In
view of the minimal profits of timers in the Growth Fund and the fact that less
than three percent of the timers’ subscriptions were made in that fund, I have
8

The Disciplined Value Fund manager purchased S&P500 Index futures on December 28, 2000
and sold them on January 19, 2001. There was no significant activity by the timers in the
Disciplined Value Fund until Q3 2002.

7

confined my analysis of any possible overweighting of liquid securities to the
Technology Fund. During this period of heightened timer activity, the
evidence indicates that the PM of the Technology Fund often traded a large
number of securities per day, possibly trading baskets of securities, a practice
that would help to minimize trading costs. This trading pattern suggests that
the PM of the Technology Fund was not constrained by the liquidity
characteristics of individual securities. Therefore, I make no adjustment for
the possible overweighting of liquid securities by the Technology Fund.
E.
Possible Capital Gains Acceleration
29. I also considered making a further adjustment for any tax costs associated
with the acceleration of the realization of capital gains due to timer-related
sales. Based on the size of the capital loss carryforward balances of the funds
at the end of each year, and the funds’ annual realized and unrealized losses,
no adjustment for potential capital gains taxes is required.
V. 	

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ADJUSTED-PROFIT
METHODOLOGY
30. I apply the adjusted-profit methodology directly to the eight equity funds,
aggregating the timers’ trades in each fund, since losses caused by individual
timers are not at issue. The aggregation greatly simplifies the analysis with no
effect on the accuracy of calculated losses to the other shareholders. Exhibit 9
presents a summary of the results of my analysis, explained below, for all ten
funds. Exhibits 10 through 17 contain more detailed quarterly results for each
equity fund.
A.

The Investment-period Loss

31. The investment-period loss includes timer profit plus two adjustments: 	the
buy adjustment and the subsequent-day adjustment. The buy adjustment is
estimated on each day that security purchases by the PM are attributed to the
timers. It is the profit or loss (net of commissions) earned on the purchased
securities from the time of purchase until 4:00 pm on that same day.
32. If the timers’ funds remain invested for more than one day, the subsequent day
adjustment is calculated as the product of the amount invested and the return
on the non-cash assets of the fund.
33. For the eight equity funds, the total investment-period loss is $122.2 million,
composed of $118.8 million in timer profit, a buy adjustment of $15.3 million,
and a subsequent day adjustment of -$11.9 million (Exhibit 9).
B.
The Post-investment-period Loss
34. As noted above, the post-investment-period loss has two components: t	he
redemption adjustment and the transaction cost adjustment. The redemption
adjustment is equal to the product of the overnight return on the securities
8

held by the fund – defined as the return from 4:00 pm to 10:00 am – and the
amount of the timers’ assets invested by the PM that become assets of the
other shareholders following the timers’ redemptions. The transaction cost
adjustment is due to the costs incurred as a result of sales of securities that the
PM undertakes in obtaining cash to pay the timer. This adjustment is
calculated as the product of the average percentage transaction costs and the
amount of security sales by the PM attributed to the timer. Transaction costs
are measured for each security transaction as the difference between the
execution price, including commissions, and the volume-weighted average
price for that day. My analysis uses transaction cost estimates from
Abel/Noser Inc. for each of the eight equity funds based on transaction data
provided by Alliance Capital.9,10
35. For the eight equity funds, the total post-investment-period loss is $55.0
million, composed of a redemption adjustment of $40.0 million and
transaction costs adjustment of $15.0 million.
C.

Other Adjustments

36. Because of t+1 accounting, the expenses incurred by the other shareholders
differ from what they would have incurred absent the timers’ activity. As
shown in Exhibit 9, the total net expense adjustment is less than $0.1 million.
D.
The Bond Funds
37. Sufficient pricing data for the holdings of the two bond funds are not available
to utilize the adjusted-profit methodology.11 Thus, I apply adjustments to the
bond funds based on those in the equity funds.12 For the two bond funds, total
losses, based on the timers’ profit and adjustments thereto, are $5.6 million.
9
10

11

12

Abel/Noser Inc. is an independent provider of transaction cost analysis to the investment industry.
In calculating transaction costs, I chose to use VWAP data provided by Abel/Noser based on PM
transaction data obtained from the funds’ custodian, State Street Bank, rather than time stamp or
other data, for a variety of reasons.
First, I was informed by Alliance Capital that it has used VWAP calculations provided by
Abel/Noser to assist the company in measuring portfolio trading costs during the time period
covered by my report.
Second, Alliance Capital did not begin using time stamp data to measure transaction costs until
2004 and even then, it took the company approximately two quarters to consistently produce what
it considered to be accurate results.
Finally, although Alliance Capital did capture time stamp and other transaction information during
the relevant time period, I had some question about the reliability of the time stamp data for the
present purpose, based on prior experience with the larger data set. In that circumstance, the
Alliance data set did not align fully with transaction data maintained by the funds’ custodian, State
Street Bank, which my adjusted profits methodology uses. The State Street Bank PM transaction
data does not include time stamp information.
The two bond funds, Americas Government Income Trust and High Yield, account for 0.9 percent
of timer subscriptions and 4.0 percent of timer profits.
The adjusted profit of the timers in each bond fund is the sum of the unadjusted dilution in the
bond fund, measured by profits, and an estimate for the bond fund’s adjustment. For each bond
fund, this estimate equals the product of the sum of the absolute values of the daily net timer flows
in that fund, and a factor based on adjustments in the eight equity funds. That factor is the sum of

9

E.
Total Net Losses to the Other Shareholders
38. For the ten funds, the total losses, netted over the other shareholders and over
all ten funds, before interest, are $182.9 million.
39. I apply interest to the losses using a risk-free interest rate from the date of the
loss through January 16, 2004, the date on which Alliance Capital deposited
the settlement amount with the U.S. Treasury. That risk-free rate is based on
3-month CD rates during the period. Total interest is $3.6 million.
40. The total losses including interest, netted over the other shareholders and over
all ten funds, are $186.4 million as of January 16, 2004.

the adjustments in the eight equity funds divided by the sum of the absolute values of the daily net
timer flows in those funds.

10

Technical Appendix
Mathematical Derivation of the Calculation of Losses Resulting from Timer Activity

The adjusted-profit methodology is designed to measure out-of-pocket losses to the other
shareholders from the activities of the timers. Out-of-pocket losses are the difference between
what the other shareholders have in their pockets and what they would have had but for the
timers’ activities.
The analysis below assumes that a timer subscribes to a fund on day 0 and redeems his
shares on day 1. Days are used in the sense of points in time, and the actual number of days
between day 0 and day 1 could be one, or more than one. The portfolio manager (PM) learns of
the redemption in the morning of the day after the redemption, day 2. At that point, the PM can
determine how to fund the timer’s redemption.
To introduce some notation, let A be the assets of the other shareholders in the fund on
day 0. These assets, including cash, earn a return of R1 from day 0 to day 1, and an overnight
return of R2 from day 1 to the morning of day 2. In my model, I define the overnight return, R2,
as the return from 4:00 pm on day 1 to 10:00 am on day 2.
The timer subscribes in the amount of kA on day 0 and redeems on day 1. Of this
subscription, the PM invests k1A on day 1 and holds k2A as cash, such that k = k1 + k2. The
timer’s invested assets earn a return of Z1 from day 0 through day 1, and an overnight return of Z2
from 4:00 pm on day 1 to 10:00 am on day 2. Even though the timer has redeemed at the 4:00
pm NAV on day 1, this overnight return, Z2, will enter into the loss calculations because the PM
is not aware of, and therefore cannot respond to, the timer’s redemption until the morning of day
2.
The returns earned on both the timer’s and other shareholders’ invested assets from day 0
to day 1 will be referred to as the investment-period returns. The returns on both sets of assets
from 4:00 pm on day 1 to 10:00 am on day 2 will be referred to as the post-investment-period
returns.

The But-for World: No Timer
Absent the timer’s presence, the other shareholders’ assets, A, are worth the following:
Day 0: A
Day 1: A(1+ R1)
Day 2: A(1+ R1)(1+ R2)
The Actual World: Timer present
The fund’s value at the end of day 1, when the timer redeems is:

A(1 + R 1 ) + k 1 A(1 + Z1 ) + k 2 A = A[(1+ R 1 ) + k 1 (1 + Z1 ) + k 2 ]
Because the timer’s subscription of kA entitles him to a k/(1+k) share of the fund, the value of the
timer’s redemption is:

1

k
A[(1+ R 1 ) + k 1 (1+ Z1 ) + k 2 ]
1+ k
The total value of the fund on the morning of day 2, after the timer’s redemption, includes the
overnight return on the timer’s invested assets, less the value of the timer’s redemption:

A[(1+ R 1 )(1+ R 2 ) + k 1 (1+ Z1 )(1+ Z 2 ) + k 2 ] −

k
A[(1+ R 1 ) + k 1 (1+ Z1 ) + k 2 ]
1+ k

The other shareholders’ loss is the difference between their assets on day 2 in the but-for
world, A(1+ R1)(1+ R2), and the fund’s value after the timer’s redemption (represented by the
above equation), or:

k
⎡
⎤
A(1+ R 1 )(1+ R 2 ) − ⎢A[(1+ R 1 )(1+ R 2 ) + k 1 (1+ Z1 )(1+ Z 2 ) + k 2 ] −
A[(1+ R 1 ) + k 1 (1+ Z1 ) + k 2 ]⎥
1+ k
⎣
⎦
Noting that the first term and the first part of the second term sum to zero, one can rearrange the
above equation as:

k
A[(1 + R 1 ) + k 1 (1 + Z1 ) + k 2 ] − A[k 1 (1 + Z1 )(1 + Z 2 ) + k 2 ]
1+ k
Subtracting kA (the value of the timer’s subscription) from the first major term and adding it after
the second major term yields:

⎤
⎡ k
⎤ ⎡
⎢1 + k A[(1 + R 1 ) + k 1 (1 + Z1 ) + k 2 ] − kA ⎥ − ⎢A[k 1 (1 + Z1 )(1 + Z 2 ) + k 2 ] kA ⎥
⎣
⎦ ⎣
⎦
The terms within the first large set of brackets represent the timer’s profit: his
redemption minus his initial subscription. This profit depends only on the investment period
returns of the fund, including the return on that portion of the timer’s subscription that the PM
invested. The terms within the second large set of brackets represent the profit that the fund
earned on the timer’s assets between the time of the timer’s subscription and the morning of day
2, when his redemption must be funded. Thus, the other shareholders incur a loss whenever the
timer’s profit exceeds the profit that the fund earns on the timer’s assets.
The above equation can be further rearranged so that each component of the adjustedprofit model is separately represented. First, expanding the terms in the second set of brackets
yields:

⎡ k
⎢⎣1 + k

⎤ ⎡
A ⎣⎡(1 + R1 ) + k1 (1 + Z1 ) + k2 ⎤⎦ − kA⎥ − ⎢ A ⎡⎣ k1 (1 + Z1 )( Z 2 ) + k1 (1 + Z1 ) + k2 ⎤⎦
⎦ ⎣

⎤
(k1 + k2 ) A ⎥
⎦

and upon rearranging:

2


⎤
⎡ k
⎢1 + k A[(1 + R 1 ) + k 1 (1 + Z1 ) + k 2 ] − kA ⎥ − [k 1 AZ1 ] − [k 1 A(1 + Z1 )(Z 2 )]
⎣
⎦
Interpretation
In this form, the other shareholders’ loss can be divided into the components of the
adjusted-profit model.
The terms in the first two sets of brackets are the other shareholders’ investment-period
loss. This loss equals the timer’s profit during the investment period (the first bracket), offset by
any profit earned by the fund on the timer’s assets during the same period (the second bracket).1
The last term in brackets is the profit on the timer’s invested assets after day 1, or the
redemption loss. On day 1, the value of the timer’s invested assets is (k1A (1+Z1)). This value
times Z2, the overnight return on those assets, is the profit that accrues to the other shareholders.
Note that if Z2 is negative, the other shareholders’ loss increases. Z2 might be negative if the
timer sold in anticipation of a drop in the value of the fund.
Also, note that if the timer’s subscription is not invested (k1 = 0), then the timer’s activity
does not cause any additional loss to other shareholders in the post-investment period, even if the
timer redeemed his shares in anticipation of a decline in the fund’s value. The rationale is that the
loss to the other shareholders’ assets would have occurred even if the timer were not present. In
this case, the investment period loss captures the full loss to the other shareholders.
To the above adjusted-profit losses must be added any additional costs that the timers
have imposed upon other shareholders. Such costs would include, for example: transaction
costs, additional management and administrative fees, additional tax liabilities, and reduced
investment performance due to any change in the PM’s investment strategy to accommodate the
timer’s liquidity demands. As described in the text, adjustments were only made for additional
transaction costs and additional management and administrative fees.

1

As explained in the body of the report, the profit earned by the fund on the timer’s assets is comprised of
two components: a first day buy adjustment, and a subsequent-day adjustment for holding periods of more
than one day.

3

Exhibit 8

8
1,2

Regression of the Portfolio Manager’s Transactions on Prior Day’s Shareholder Flows1,2
Technology Fund
Fund

Q1 2001 – Q3 2003
2003


2001

Inde
ndepe
pende
ndent
ntVVariable s
Constant
Shar
areh
ehol
older
derFFlow
owss((- 1)
2

R
Observat
atiions

2002
20
02
Q1

Q2

2003

Q1

Q2

Q3

Q4

Q3

Q4

Q1

0.001
0.043

0.000
0.00
0.07
0.0
75

0.000
0.045

0.000
0.019

- 0.002
- 0.011

- 0.001
- 0.006

- 0.001
0.602 *

- 0.001
0.872 *

- 0.001 *
0.943 *

0.008
61

0.025
0.02
63

0.054
59

0.040
64

0.004
0.
004
60

0.004
64

0.603
64

0.854
64

0.932
61

Q2
0.000
0.838 *
0.761
63

Q3

2001

2002

- 0.001
0.082

0.000
0.000
0.026
0.02
6

- 0.001 *
0.350 *

0.008
64

0.011
0.011
247
24
7

0.415
252

2003

2001-2003
20012003

0.000
0.909 *

0.000
0.
000 *
0.398 *

0.847
188

0.419
0.
419
687

Notes:
1. The table presents the estimates of a regression of the Portfolio Manager's transactions on a constant, 1-day lagged Shareholder Flows, and a MA(1) component. For brevity, the MA(1) estimates are not reported in the table. All variables
in the regression model are deflated by net assets. Newey-West HAC-robust standard deviations and covariances are used.
2. Coefficients in Red (*) are significant at 5%.
Sources:

Sources:
Portfolio Manager's transaction data and fund net assets data provided by State Street Bank.
Bank.

Fund shareholder transaction data and Net Asset Value (NAV) data provided by Alliance.
Alliance.


