UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 54371 / August 28, 2006
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-12400
In the Matter of
PRUDENTIAL EQUITY GROUP,
LLC, formerly known as
PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES, INC.,

ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
PROCEEDINGS, MAKING FINDINGS, AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS PURSUANT
TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in
the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant
to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Prudential
Equity Group, LLC, formerly known as Prudential Securities Inc. (“Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these
proceedings, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative
Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions Pursuant to Section 15(b) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds 1 that:
A.

Respondent

1.
Prior to July 1, 2003, Prudential Securities Inc. ("PSI") was an indirect wholly
owned broker-dealer subsidiary of Prudential Financial, Incorporated ("Prudential Financial").
Prudential Financial is a publicly-owned holding company, traded on the New York Stock
Exchange, whose operating subsidiaries provide a wide range of insurance, investment
management and other financial products and services to retail and institutional customers
including insurance brokers and investment managers. On July 1, 2003, PSI transferred the
assets relating to its U.S. retail securities brokerage operations to a newly formed holding
company, now named Wachovia Securities Financial Holdings, LLC ("WSFH"). Prudential
Financial presently owns 38% of WSFH and Wachovia Corporation owns 62% of WSFH. Since
July 1, 2003, PSI's former U.S. retail securities brokerage business has operated as part of
Wachovia Securities, LLC. Following the asset transfer, PSI converted from a stock corporation
into a limited liability company and was renamed Prudential Equity Group, LLC ("PEG"). PEG
is a broker-dealer registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act
and is a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers and the New York Stock
Exchange. PEG provides equity research, sales and trading to domestic and international
institutional customers and is a successor entity to PSI. Prudential Financial continues to own
100% of the equity interests in PEG.
B.

Summary

2.
This matter concerns a fraudulent market timing scheme perpetrated by PSI
registered representatives (collectively, the “Representatives”) whose business involved market
timing to defraud at least fifty mutual funds and their long-term shareholders. Beginning in at
least September 1999 and continuing through at least June 2003 (the “Relevant Period”), the
Representatives used deceptive trading practices to conceal their identities, and those of their
customers, to evade mutual funds’ prospectus limitations on market timing. These practices
included the use of multiple broker identifying numbers (known as Financial Advisor, or “FA”
numbers) and multiple customer accounts; the use of accounts coded as confidential in PSI’s
systems; and the Representatives’ use of “under the radar” trading to avoid notice by mutual
funds. Typically, mutual funds screened for market timing trades only above a designated dollar
amount. The practice of “under the radar” trading refers to the Representatives’ splitting of one
trade into numerous smaller ones to avoid detection by mutual funds.

1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.
2

3.
As early as the fourth quarter 1999, several mutual fund companies identified the
Representatives’ use of deceptive trading practices and notified PSI of the Representatives’
conduct. In May 2002, PSI itself determined that its top-producing registered representative
used deceptive trading practices to avoid notice by mutual funds. Throughout the Relevant
Period, PSI received hundreds of notices from mutual fund companies that identified the
Representatives’ conduct and asked the firm to take steps to curtail their deceptive market timing
practices.
4.
Despite PSI’s increasing awareness of the Representatives’ fraudulent market
timing practices, the firm elected to continue the business of market timing. Rather than
discipline or sanction any of the Representatives or even curtail their ability to open additional
accounts for their market timing customers, PSI failed to prevent their conduct from continuing
and actually began to track the Representatives’ gross revenues. In 2001, for example, the
Representatives generated more than $16 million in gross commission revenues for the firm,
most of which was in danger of being eliminated had the firm phased out market timing at that
time. Similarly, the Representatives generated approximately $23 million in gross commission
revenues in 2002, and continued to generate comparable revenues throughout the Relevant
Period.
5.
PSI’s policies and procedures were ineffective in curtailing the Representatives’
fraud and were largely not enforced. Even in situations where PSI purportedly enforced any of
these policies, PSI senior officers undermined them by granting exceptions for PSI’s largest
producing registered representatives. Additionally, PSI repeatedly failed to deprive the
Representatives of their inappropriate use of hundreds of FA numbers, even though the use of
multiple FA numbers was the primary means by which the Representatives carried out their
fraud. PSI finally issued a market timing policy in January 2003, but the firm did not fully
enforce procedures in that policy to curtail the Representatives’ scheme. PSI also failed to make
and keep required records concerning the Representatives’ trading practices. As a result of the
conduct described above, PSI violated the antifraud and books and records provisions of the
federal securities laws.
C.

Background

6.
Market timing includes frequent buying and selling of shares of the same mutual
fund or buying or selling of mutual fund shares in order to exploit inefficiencies in mutual fund
pricing. Though not illegal per se, market timing can harm mutual fund shareholders because it
can dilute the value of their shares, if the market timer is exploiting pricing inefficiencies, or
disrupt the management of the mutual fund’s investment portfolio and can cause the targeted
mutual fund to incur costs borne by other shareholders to accommodate frequent buying and
selling of shares by the market timer.
7.
Beginning in the late 1990s, many mutual funds determined that market timing
harmed their long-term shareholders. As a result, they began to monitor market timing in their
funds’ shares and imposed restrictions on excessive trading. Such restrictions limited the
3

number of trades that an account holder could place in a fund’s shares and often were set forth in
the funds’ prospectuses. Many funds monitored trading activity to detect any violations of these
prospectus limitations.
8.
Most mutual funds received trade instructions from PSI through the National
Securities Clearing Corporation (“NSCC”). NSCC is a centralized trade clearance and
settlement system that linked the Representatives, PSI, and virtually all mutual fund companies.
To place trades that were transmitted through NSCC, the Representatives were required to
identify their FA number and a customer account to mutual funds on trade tickets. PSI appended
additional information to the Representatives’ orders and transmitted the transactions through
NSCC to the mutual fund companies.
9.
Some mutual funds screened for excessive short-term trading by reviewing FA
and customer account numbers that the Representatives transmitted to them via NSCC. Some
also monitored for excessive short-term trading by trade size and principal amount and by the
branch code attached to a trade. 2 Typically, if a fund concluded that a shareholder had violated
its exchange limitations, the fund would attempt to prevent, or “block” additional trades in a fund
or fund family by that shareholder. If a fund determined that a particular PSI registered
representative or shareholder had violated its exchange limitations, the fund would send a “block
letter” to PSI. Block letters varied but generally notified PSI of the mutual fund’s intention to
block the registered representative’s or customer’s transaction and often asked PSI to take steps
to preclude a particular registered representative or customer account from engaging in
additional trades in a particular fund or fund family.
10.
Because these mutual funds monitored for excessive trading by FA number and/or
customer account number, the Representatives altered their use of these numbers to defraud these
funds and the funds’ long-term shareholders. By altering their use of these numbers, the
Representatives tricked mutual fund companies into accepting trades that the funds otherwise
would have rejected.
D.

The Representatives’ Deceptive Conduct

11.
During the Relevant Period, the Representatives engaged in a fraudulent scheme
to circumvent blocks imposed by mutual funds on their trading privileges. The Representatives’
scheme worked as follows. The Representatives’ customers, typically hedge funds, asked the
Representatives to purchase and sell mutual funds on a short-term basis on their behalf. The
Representatives, however, knew that mutual funds tracked their trades by FA number and
customer account number, and they knew that if they placed short-term mutual fund trades for
their customers using a single FA or account number, the mutual funds would likely determine

2 PSI assigned branch codes to each of its retail branch offices. Branch codes identified to
mutual funds the PSI branch office from which a particular market timing trade originated.
4

the number of trades was excessive and would block any further trades by them.
12.
The Representatives, therefore, devised a scheme to conduct their customers’
trading using dozens of customer accounts, often established under fictitious names, and multiple
FA numbers to make it difficult for mutual funds to identify their customers’ market timing.
When the mutual funds succeeded in blocking certain FA numbers or customer accounts from
further trading, the Representatives then used other FA numbers and customer accounts that had
not yet been blocked to evade the funds’ restrictions and continue to trade.
a.

The Boston Registered Representatives

13.
For example, one group of PSI registered representatives based in its Boston,
Massachusetts branch office (the “Boston Representatives”) repeatedly used these deceptive
practices to defraud mutual funds throughout the Relevant Period. The Boston Representatives
consisted of a group of three PSI registered representatives and several assistants. The group had
five customers for whom it placed market timing trades, each of whom acted on behalf of one or
more hedge funds. During the Relevant Period, PSI received approximately $8 million from the
Boston Representatives’ market timing activities, of which group members received
approximately $4.6 million. As a result of this business, the head of the group quickly rose to
become one of PSI’s top producers.
14.
Many of the mutual funds in which the Boston Representatives traded screened
for market timing trades by FA and customer account numbers. Many fund companies sent
notices to PSI that complained that the group’s trades had violated prospectus limitations. Some
mutual funds announced steps they had taken to preclude the Boston Representatives from
further trading while others asked that PSI take steps to block further trades by the group in the
fund.
15.
During the Relevant Period, the Boston Representatives used at least thirteen FA
numbers and hundreds of customer accounts (for what were, in reality, only five customers) to
circumvent these blocks and preclude new blocks. The Boston Representatives’ use of these
devices in connection with market timing allowed group members to continue to place trades in
funds that had taken steps to preclude them from further trading. Their scheme created the
impression that transactions originated from many registered representatives and represented
many different customers. In fact, what appeared to the mutual funds to be thousands of separate
transactions submitted by many registered representatives for many unrelated customers was
actually a systematic pattern of market timing by group members on behalf of their five hedge
fund customers.
b.

The Garden City Representative

16.
Another PSI registered representative based in its Liberty Plaza and Garden City,
New York branch offices (the “Garden City Representative”) used these same deceptive
practices to defraud mutual funds throughout the Relevant Period. The Garden City
5

Representative headed a team of registered representatives and assistants, although he very rarely
reported to work at any PSI location. He had five customers for whom he placed market timing
trades, each of whom acted on behalf of one or more hedge funds. During the Relevant Period,
PSI received approximately $9.8 million from the Garden City Representative’s market timing
activities (of which the Garden City Representative received approximately $4.7 million). The
Garden City Representative was the top producing registered representative at PSI throughout
the Relevant Period.
17.
Like the Boston Representatives, the Garden City Representative traded in mutual
funds that screened for market timing by FA and customer account numbers. During the
Relevant Period, approximately fifty mutual funds complained to PSI about the Garden City
Representative’s trading activity. Many mutual funds specifically identified to PSI his use of
deceptive trading strategies to evade blocks the fund companies had imposed.
18.
To evade these blocks, the Garden City Representative maintained 49 different
FA numbers and hundreds of customer account numbers (for what were, in reality, only five
customers). His use of these devices to market time created the impression that the trades
originated from many registered representatives and many customers. By shifting trades from
one FA number to another, or from one customer account to another, the Garden City
Representative concealed his identity and was able to place trades in mutual funds where PSI
previously had blocked his trading under his other FA numbers and accounts.
c.

The Special Accounts Representatives

19.
Another group of PSI registered representatives based in a New York office
known within the firm as “Special Accounts” (the “Special Accounts Representatives”) also used
deceptive practices to defraud mutual funds throughout the Relevant Period. The Special
Accounts Representatives consisted of a group of two PSI registered representatives and several
assistants. The group had three customers for which it placed market timing trades. During the
Relevant Period, PSI received gross revenue of approximately $6.5 million from the Special
Accounts Representatives’ market timing activities, of which group members received
approximately $2.5 million. As a result of this business, the heads of the group quickly achieved
membership in PSI’s Chairman’s Club, a select group consisting of the largest producing
registered representative within the firm.
20.
Like the Boston Representatives and the Garden City Representative, the Special
Accounts Representatives knew that most mutual funds identified excessive trading by FA and
customer account numbers. They also understood that mutual funds screened for market timing
by reviewing only those trades at or exceeding certain dollar amounts. The Special Accounts
Representatives used at least 20 FA numbers and hundreds of customer accounts (for what were,
in reality, only three customers) to avoid detection by mutual funds. The Special Accounts
Representatives also used “under the radar” trading to disguise their customers’ trading in funds
that previously had taken steps to stop them. The Special Accounts Representatives use of these
devices in connection with market timing deceived mutual funds into accepting trades they
6

otherwise would have rejected. Like the Boston Representatives and the Garden City
Representative, their scheme perpetuated the impression that transactions originated from many
registered representatives and represented many different customers.
E.

PSI Failed to Prevent the Representatives From Obtaining Multiple Broker
Identifying and Customer Account Numbers

21.
PSI failed to prevent the Representatives from obtaining several different forms of
broker identifying numbers. Consequently, the Representatives used these numbers to perpetrate
their scheme to defraud. When registered representatives began their employment with PSI, PSI
assigned them an FA number. Registered representatives used FA numbers to open customer
accounts, execute trades, and track their commissions. When registered representatives worked
as a team to service common customers, PSI provided “Joint” numbers. Joint numbers
ostensibly represented a commission split between two or more registered representatives. Here,
the Representatives acquired and used Joint numbers for improper purposes. The numbers were
not used to split commissions, but rather to facilitate the Representatives’ ability to trade after
their other broker identifying numbers had been blocked from trading. PSI also provided the
Representatives with “Also” numbers. The purported purpose of “Also” numbers was to allow
the Representatives’ customers to access only those portions of a given registered
representative’s portfolio that belonged to that customer or to provide certain customers with
commission discounts. The Representatives, however, used Also numbers improperly in the
same manner as they used FA and Joint numbers – to circumvent blocks that had been imposed
on their other FA numbers. Indeed, at least one mutual fund became so frustrated by its inability
to identify the Representatives that it threatened to curtail the trading privileges of all registered
representatives within a PSI branch to remedy the conduct.
22.
Each of the Representatives maintained numerous FA, Joint, and Also numbers,
and used these numbers interchangeably to execute trades for their customers. For example, the
Boston Representatives used 13 broker identifying numbers to place market timing trades and
the Garden City Representative used 49 broker identifying numbers. When one of the
Representatives’ FA, Joint, or Also numbers was blocked from trading by a particular mutual
fund, he used another number assigned to him to place the trade in that fund. Although each
Joint number ostensibly represented a unique commission split, in fact each team of
Representatives split commissions from mutual fund purchases according to a single ratio,
irrespective of which broker identifying number was used to enter the trade.
23.
PSI failed to prevent the Representatives from opening hundreds of customer
account numbers. The Representatives’ customers maintained multiple accounts with PSI, many
of which bore fictitious names that had no relation to the actual customer’s name. The
Representatives used these customer accounts interchangeably to execute trades. When one
customer account was blocked from trading by a particular mutual fund, the Representatives
substituted another account for that same customer to place the trade for that customer, thereby
creating the appearance that the trade originated from another customer.

7

24.
PSI failed to prevent the Representatives from obtaining accounts for their
customers that were coded as “Confidential.” Confidential accounts did not identify the
beneficial owner of the account on the transaction data provided to the mutual funds. Although
such a designation could have a legitimate purpose, here the Representatives used confidential
accounts improperly to impede the mutual funds’ ability to identify which PSI registered
representative or customer was market timing their funds.
25.
PSI also failed to prevent the Representatives from obtaining customer account
numbers with multiple branch identifiers. Typically, registered representatives located in one
PSI branch office had customer accounts that had a prefix used to identify the branch location.
Here, the Representatives established accounts for their hedge fund customers using multiple
branch codes, which effectively impeded the mutual funds’ ability to identify the particular PSI
office location, as well as registered representative, that was market timing their funds. The
Representatives used branch identifiers improperly as another mechanism to conceal their
identities and the identities of their customers to mutual funds.
F.

PSI Received Notifications of the Representatives’ Deceptions

26.
During the Relevant Period, mutual fund companies sent more than a thousand
letters and e-mails to PSI concerning market timing by the Representatives. Many of these
communications asked PSI to take steps to stop further trading by a particular customer account
or FA number. Others expressly notified PSI that the Representatives used deceptive trading
practices to continue placing market timing trades.
27.
High level officers of PSI were aware during the Relevant Period that mutual
funds were accusing the Representatives of using deceptive practices to evade the mutual funds’
attempts to block the Representatives’ market timing trades. For example, an individual who
joined PSI in 1997 and rose to become the chief administrator of PSI’s Private Client Group
(“PCG”) in January 1999, then to executive director of PCG in November 2000, and finally to
president of PCG in December 2002 (the “Senior Officer”), received repeated notices of
wrongdoing by the Representatives throughout the Relevant Period, but did not take adequate
steps to stop the Representatives’ fraud. Among other things, the Senior Officer received the
following indications that the Representatives were committing fraud. In some cases, certain
other senior managers or high level officers of PSI also received notices that the Representatives
were committing fraud.
28.
On November 21, 1999, a senior executive in the PSI Mutual Fund Operations
Division forwarded to the Senior Officer a string of e-mails concerning a complaint from a
mutual fund complex that the Garden City Representative had evaded a block on two of his
accounts by simply opening new accounts. Among other things, the e-mail stated:
It appears that [the Garden City Representative] circumvented this
restriction by requesting new BIN [account] #s and fund accounts
be established, funded by transferring shares into these new
8

accounts on 11/8/99. Subsequently on 11/10/99, an exchange out
of the money fund into our stock funds was processed, beginning
market timing again.
The cover e-mail commented, “[T]his seems to be a serious matter that will only get worse.”
29.
On January 19, 2000, the manager of PSI’s Mutual Fund Operations Division
forwarded to the Senior Officer an e-mail from another mutual fund complex complaining that a
member of the Boston Representatives had evaded a trading restriction by opening a new
account, stating:
It appears that [the member] set up another account in December
for the same client we restricted on 11/22.
30.
On March 30, 2001, the head of PCG risk management sent the Senior Officer an
e-mail that attached a letter from another mutual fund complex complaining that “excessive
trading activity” by PSI registered representatives in its mutual funds “has become detrimental to
both the funds and shareholders of the funds involved.” The letter described the tactics used by
PSI registered representatives to avoid having their trades canceled as follows:
Since trade cancellation began on February 26th, 2001, we have
noticed several types of reactions by Prudential Financial Advisors
in order to circumvent our attempts to terminate excessive trading.
Originally, your Financial Advisors established new identification
numbers so that they would not be recognized as a repeat offender.
Secondly, Financial Advisors would transfer a fund(s) position
from account to account, in order to disguise their identity. Lastly,
your Financial Advisors have attempted to reduce the dollar
amount of the exchange orders while simultaneously increasing the
number of exchanges (in the same fund and account) in the hopes
of not being identified.
31.
On June 28, 2001, the Senior Officer received an e-mail from the manager of the
Special Accounts branch warning him that the Special Accounts Representatives were obtaining
multiple FA numbers in order to conduct their market timing, stating that:
We will have an issue soon with joint FA numbers: in order to get
around the MF [mutual fund] timing issue they are starting to
request 99/01 split numbers with their junior partners to help them
get around being shut down by some MF companies on timing.
32.
On April 4, 2002, the manager of PSI’s Mutual Funds Operations division sent an
e-mail to other senior managers forwarding an e-mail from another mutual fund complex
complaining that certain PSI registered representatives were using multiple accounts and FA
numbers to evade restrictions on their market timing. The e-mail stated:
9

What we have seen scares us. It appears certain representatives are
changing account registrations, tax id numbers, and branch and rep
numbers in an effort to time the [mutual fund complex’s] funds.
All of these accounts have been stopped, but each day “new” ones
pop up.
When the PSI chief compliance officer saw the above e-mail, he showed it to the Senior Officer.
The head of PCG risk management also discussed the e-mail with the Senior Officer.
33.
On April 29, 2002, the Senior Officer met with an internal PSI working group that
had been analyzing market timing issues. The group described for the Senior Officer the mutual
fund companies’ restrictions on excessive trading, the fund companies’ block letters to PSI, and
the deceptive trading strategies used by certain PSI registered representatives, including multiple
accounts and FA numbers.
34.
On at least two occasions in May 2002, an employee of PSI’s risk management
division detailed for the Senior Officer several deceptive practices used by the Garden City
Representative. The employee’s analysis noted that in one 37-day period, the Garden City
Representative had 19 different mutual fund companies request that accounts under the
representative’s control, or the representative as an FA, be blocked from their funds. The
analysis concluded that the Garden City Representative had circumvented these requests by
changing his FA number to an Also or Joint Number to avoid detection by the fund, or by
changing customer account numbers and moving the assets from the blocked account to a newly
established account.
35.
On February 5, 2003, the director of strategic planning at PCG sent the Senior
Officer (then the President and most senior officer of PCG) a string of e-mails from another
mutual fund complex complaining that certain PSI registered representatives were using multiple
customer accounts and FA numbers for market timing. One of the e-mails stated:
I have spoken to these reps a few times over the past several
months about stopping their timing activity to no avail. Over the
past several months, we have placed stops on 325 of their accounts
as of 11/30/02 and continue to add accounts daily. We see new
accounts/rep id combinations being opened and have determined
that we are not able to continue chasing them within our funds.
We feel our only course of action to protect our fund shareholders
is to prohibit the attached list of reps from doing business with [our
funds].
Another e-mail in the string stated:
These reps have multiple rep ids and have continued to add new
10

ones as we block the ids within the NSCC trading system for our
fund complex ... These reps created close to $3 billion in
exchanges last year with $75 million of assets during a time in
which we placed stops on 350 of their accounts.
The director of strategic planning added his own warning to the Senior Officer:
I just wanted to give you a heads up on an issue that is sure to
reach your desk in the next day or two. As you can see from the
attached string of notes, the senior leadership team at [a mutual
fund complex] are completely frustrated with some of the
tactics/strategies of FA’s [the Garden City Representative and the
Boston Representatives]. Previous attempts to curtail timing
activity in the [mutual fund complex’s] funds by blocking account
activity have been thwarted by the establishment of additional FA
numbers. It appears that [the mutual fund complex] is now making
overtures that continued activity of this nature will threaten the
relationship between Prudential and the fund company.
36.
On February 11, 2003, a PCG risk officer sent an e-mail to the Senior Officer
(then the President and most senior officer of PCG) that forwarded an e-mail from the Garden
City branch manager about the Garden City Representative’s market timing business. The
branch manager questioned the effectiveness of the Mutual Fund Operations Division’s internal
blocking system and raised several other concerns about the Garden City Representative’s
activities:
Blocking of individual accounts by fund companies is extremely
short-sighted in consideration of the fact that each “entity”
maintains multiple accounts with our Firm.
There have been repeat offenses, at least in spirit . . .
Fund companies have been misled as to the identity of the FA’s of
record... Recently, [a mutual fund company] was provided with
information which was at best misleading to effect the removal [of]
a block.
[T]here is frequent journaling of funds between accounts.
At the present time, [the Garden City Representative and an
assistant] either have or have had a total of 48 FA #s including
single, joint and also numbers.

11

G.

PSI’s Procedures to Limit Market Timing Were Ineffective

37.
Although PSI senior officers issued policies and procedures ostensibly designed
to proscribe the Representatives’ conduct, these policies and procedures were ineffective in
scope and were never fully enforced. Moreover, even in situations where these policies and
procedures purportedly were enforced, PSI senior officers undermined them by granting
exceptions for its largest producing registered representatives. As a result, the Representatives’
deceptions continued even after these policies and procedures were promulgated.
a.

PSI’s June 2002 Procedure Concerning Issuance of FA Numbers

38.
In June 2002, PSI instituted a procedure concerning the issuance of FA numbers,
in a purported effort to hinder the Representatives’ ability to obtain “Joint” numbers and “Also”
numbers to evade limitations on market timing (the “June 2002 Procedure”). The June 2002
Procedure provided, simply, that requests for “Joint” and “Also” numbers would require a
documented business request and a PSI Regional Business Manager’s approval. The June 2002
Procedure failed to preclude the Representatives from misusing previously issued Joint and Also
numbers to evade blocks imposed by mutual fund companies nor did it preclude them from
obtaining new FA numbers to facilitate their fraud. Indeed, the Garden City Representative
obtained 12 new Joint and Also numbers just days before the procedure took effect, purportedly
to assist him in transferring customer accounts from one PSI branch office to another. The June
2002 Procedure also did not subject the Representatives to any form of discipline or sanction if
they continued to use Joint and Also numbers to evade blocks in violation of its terms.
b.

PSI’s January 2003 Market Timing Policy

39.
After protracted discussion involving PSI senior officers during the Fall of 2002,
PSI issued a market timing policy on January 8, 2003 (the “Market Timing Policy”). PSI
considered, and rejected, defining market timing in the Market Timing Policy as a certain
number of trades because of concerns that doing so would have too great an impact on the
Representatives’ revenues. PSI also rejected an absolute prohibition on the business of market
timing. Instead, the Market Timing Policy provided that “inappropriate timing activities [would]
continue to be monitored” by mutual fund companies and not by PSI itself.
40.
Unlike other PSI policies concerning market timing, the Market Timing Policy
expressly provided for the imposition of sanctions, including termination of employment, for the
Representatives’ use of “manipulative techniques” to evade mutual fund trading restrictions.
Any imposition of sanctions was to be decided by a committee consisting of members of PSI’s
Legal, Compliance, and Risk Management divisions. Despite notifications of continuing
deceptive practices received by PSI after it issued the Market Timing Policy, PSI did not form
this committee and failed to take action against any of the Representatives to stop their use of
“manipulative techniques” to market time.
41.

The Market Timing Policy also provided that, in the event a mutual fund company
12

asked PSI to block any one of a registered representative’s FA numbers, all numbers belonging
to the registered representative similarly would be blocked from trading. However, PSI senior
officers determined not to implement this critical aspect of the Market Timing Policy. In fact,
despite the policy’s clear language, PSI interpreted mutual fund block requests after it issued the
Market Timing Policy in the same manner as it had previously – as narrowly as possible,
blocking only the specific FA number or customer account number identified by mutual fund
block requests. Thus, even after issuance of the Market Timing Policy, the Representatives were
able to continue their fraudulent scheme of switching to unblocked FA numbers or customer
accounts to evade blocks imposed by mutual fund companies.
H.

PSI Profited From the Representatives’ Deceptive Acts

42.
PSI identified the Representatives as early as 2000 and monitored their revenues
and ranks within the firm throughout the Relevant Period. The firm’s Mutual Fund Operations
Division, which processed the Representatives’ trades in mutual funds, monitored the
Representatives’ activity because their rapid trading required the dedication of additional staff
within the department to process the trades and strained the firm’s trade processing and
settlement systems.
43.
In 2000, PSI began to track each quarter the gross commission revenues generated
by the Representatives. PSI prepared these reports to determine the amount of income that
would possibly be reduced if the firm determined to eliminate market timing as a business. In
2001, for example, the Representatives generated more than $16 million in gross commission
revenues for the firm, most of which would have been eliminated had the firm phased out market
timing at that time. Similarly, the Representatives generated approximately $23 million in gross
commission revenues for 2002, and received another $10 million in gross commission revenues
during the first half of 2003.
44.
As PSI senior officers became increasingly aware of the Representatives’ use of
deceptions, the firm elected to continue the business of market timing. Indeed, some of the
firm’s senior officers were aware that the June 2002 Procedure concerning the issuance of
multiple FA numbers and the January 2003 Market Timing Policy were wholly ineffective at
eradicating the Representatives’ deceptions and the Representatives and their hedge fund
customers continued this activity. During the Relevant Period, the Representatives generated
approximately $50 million in gross revenues as a result of this conduct.
I.

PSI Failed to Make and Keep Required Books and Records

45.
PSI was required to make and keep current trade orders and trade tickets
concerning the Representatives’ mutual fund trading. PSI also was required to make and keep
current a trade blotter that reflected the Representatives’ mutual fund trading. During the
relevant period, PSI failed to maintain these required books and records, and, in instances where
PSI did maintain these items, they did not give the actual time at which the orders were received
or the time of entry.
13

J.

Violations of the Antifraud and Books and Records Provisions of the Federal
Securities Laws

46.
As a result of the conduct described above, PSI willfully violated Section 17(a) of
the Securities Act of 1933, which prohibits fraudulent conduct in the offer or sale of securities.
47.
As a result of the conduct described above, PSI also willfully violated Section
10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct in
connection with the purchase or sale of securities.
48.
PSI also willfully violated Section 17(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 17a-3 and
17a-4 thereunder. Section 17(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 17a-3 and 17a-4 thereunder
required PSI to make and keep certain books and records relating to its business, including trade
blotters and trade tickets related to mutual fund trading. Implicit in the Commission’s
recordkeeping rules is a requirement that information contained in a required book or record be
accurate. PSI failed to maintain complete and current copies of trade blotters concerning mutual
fund trading and trade tickets related to mutual fund trading in a readily accessible place. In
instances where PSI did maintain trade tickets, information included on them did not represent
the actual time at which the orders were placed.
K.

Undertakings

In determining whether to accept the Offer, the Commission has considered these
undertakings:
49.
Cooperation. Respondent shall cooperate fully with the staff of the Commission
in any litigation, ongoing investigation, or other proceedings relating to or arising from the
matters described in the This Order. In connection with such cooperation, Respondent has
undertaken:
a.

to produce promptly, without service of a notice or subpoena, any and all
documents and other information requested by the Commission’s staff in
Respondent’s possession and control;

b.

to use its best efforts to cause its employees to be interviewed by the
Commission’s staff at such times as the Commission may reasonably request; and

c.

to use its best efforts to cause its employees to appear and testify truthfully and
completely without service of a notice or subpoena in such investigations,
depositions, hearing or trials as the Commission’s staff reasonably may request;
and that in connection with any testimony of Respondent to be conducted at
deposition, hearing, or trial pursuant to a notice or subpoena, Respondent

14

i.

agrees that any such notice or subpoena for Respondent’s
appearance and testimony may be served by regular mail on its
attorney:
Bingham McCutchen LLP
Attn: Neal E. Sullivan, Esq.
2020 K Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20006; and

ii.

Agrees that any such notice or subpoena for Respondent’s
territorial limits imposed by the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.

50.
Independent Distribution Consultant. Respondent shall retain, within 60 days of
the entry of this Order, the services of an independent distribution consultant (“Independent
Distribution Consultant”) acceptable to the staff of the Commission.
a.
Respondent shall be responsible for all costs and expenses associated with the
development and implementation of the Distribution Plan for the distribution of the
disgorgement ordered in Section IV.B. of this Order. Such costs and expenses shall include,
without limitation (i) the compensation of a tax administrator for the preparation of tax returns
and/or for seeking any IRS rulings; (ii) the payment of taxes; and (iii) the payment of any
distribution or consulting services as may be reasonably required by the Independent Distribution
Consultant. Respondent shall cooperate with the tax administrator to see that all tax payments
are timely made, and all such tax payments shall be deposited in the Qualified Settlement Fund
upon notice from the tax administrator concerning the amount and the deadline for payment.
b.
Respondent shall cooperate fully with the Independent Distribution Consultant to
provide all information requested for its review, including providing access to its files, books,
records, and personnel.
c.
The Independent Distribution Consultant shall develop a proposed Distribution
Plan for the distribution of the disgorgement ordered in Section IV.B. of this Order, and any
interest or earnings thereon, according to a methodology developed in consultation with and
acceptable to the staff of the Commission.
d.
The Independent Distribution Consultant shall submit to Respondent and the staff
of the Commission the proposed Distribution Plan no more than 180 days after the entry of this
Order.
e.
The proposed Distribution Plan developed by the Independent Distribution
Consultant shall be binding unless, within 210 days after the date of entry of this Order,
Respondent or the staff of the Commission advises, in writing, the Independent Distribution
Consultant of any determination or calculation from the Distribution Plan that it considers to be
inappropriate and states in writing the reasons for considering such determination or calculation
15

inappropriate.
f.
With respect to any calculation with which Respondent or the staff of the
Commission do not agree, such parties shall attempt in good faith to reach an agreement within
240 days of the entry of this Order. In the event that Respondent and the staff of the
Commission are unable to agree on an alternative determination or calculation, the
determinations of the Independent Distribution Consultant shall be included in the proposed
Distribution Plan.
g.
Within 285 days of the date of entry of this Order, the Independent Distribution
Consultant shall submit the proposed Distribution Plan for the administration and distribution of
disgorgement funds pursuant to the Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans,
17 C.F.R. § 201.1100, et seq., (Rule 1100 through Rule 1106). Following a Commission order
approving a final plan of distribution, as provided in Rule 1104 [17 C.F.R. § 201.1104] of the
SEC’s Rules on Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans, the Independent Distribution Consultant
shall take all necessary and appropriate steps to administer the final plan for distribution of
disgorgement funds in accordance with the terms of the approved Distribution Plan.
h.
For the period of the engagement and for a period of two years from completion
of the engagement, the Independent Distribution Consultant shall not enter into any employment,
consultant, attorney-client, auditing, or other professional relationship with Respondent, or any
of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity
as such. Any firm with which the Independent Distribution Consultant is affiliated in
performance of his or her duties under this Order, or of which he/she is a member, and any
person engaged to assist the Independent Distribution Consultant in the performance of his/her
duties under this Order, shall not, without prior written consent of the staff of the Commission,
enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship
with Respondent, or any of Respondent’s present or former affiliates, directors, officers,
employees, or agents acting in the capacity as such for the period of the engagement and for a
period of two years after the engagement.
i.
For good cause shown, the staff of the Commission may alter any of the
procedural deadlines set forth above.
.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest
to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act, it is hereby ORDERED
that:
A.

Respondent is hereby censured.

B.
Respondent shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement of
$270 million to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such payment shall be: (A) made by
wire transfer, United States postal money order, certified check, bank cashier's check or bank
money order; (B) made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission; (C) wired, handdelivered, or mailed to the Office of Financial Management, Securities and Exchange
Commission, Operations Center, 6432 General Green Way, Stop 0-3, Alexandria, VA 22312;
and (D) submitted under cover letter that identifies PSI as a Respondent in these proceedings, the
file number of these proceedings, a copy of which cover letter, wire transfer instruction, money
order, or check shall be sent to David P. Bergers, District Administrator, Securities and
Exchange Commission, Boston District Office, 33 Arch Street, 23rd Floor, Boston,
Massachusetts 02110.
C.
Respondent shall comply with the undertakings enumerated in Section III.,
paragraph 50 of this Order.

By the Commission.

Nancy M. Morris
Secretary

