UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

Before the 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 51761 / May 31, 2005
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 2390 / May 31, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File no. 3-11935
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-ANDDESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT
TO SECTIONS 203(e) AND 203(k) OF
THE INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT
OF 1940 AND SECTION 15(b)(4) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934, MAKING FINDINGS, AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS
AND A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER

In the Matter of
Smith Barney Fund Management LLC and
Citigroup Global Markets, Inc.,
Respondents.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) deems it appropriate and
in the public interest that administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted pursuant to Sections 203(e) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940
(“Advisers Act”) against Smith Barney Fund Management LLC (“Adviser”), and pursuant to
Sections 203(e) and 203(k) of the Advisers Act and Section 15(b)(4) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (“Global Markets”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, the Adviser and Global Markets
(collectively, “Respondents”) have submitted an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) that the
Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other
proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission or in which the Commission is a party,
and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction
over them and the subject matter of these proceedings, Respondents consent to the entry of this
Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 203(e)
and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and Section 15(b)(4) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-andDesist Order (“Order”) as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offer, the Commission finds1 that:
SUMMARY
1.
This is a case about an investment adviser placing its interest in making a profit
ahead of the interests of the mutual funds it serves. Investment advisers have a fiduciary duty to
act in the best interests of the mutual funds they advise and their shareholders. Mutual funds pay
fees for various services provided to the mutual funds, including transfer agent services. Among
its duties, the adviser may advise fund boards about the retention of a particular transfer agent
and how much to pay for the transfer agent’s services. In this case, the Adviser, which serves as
investment adviser to the Smith Barney Family of Funds (the “Funds”), recommended the Funds
contract with an affiliate of the Adviser, which would perform limited transfer agent services and
sub-contract with the Funds’ existing transfer agent. The existing transfer agent would perform
almost all of the same services it had performed previously, but at deeply discounted rates,
permitting the affiliate of the Adviser to keep most of the discount for itself and make a high
profit for performing limited work. In making this recommendation, the Adviser misled the
boards by omitting material facts, which led the boards to believe that the Adviser’s
recommendation was made in the Funds’ best interests, which was not true. This self-interested
proposal permitted the Adviser and its affiliates to profit from the transfer agent function at the
expense of the Funds.
2.
The Adviser and the asset management operations of Global Markets are part of
Citigroup Asset Management (“CAM”), a business unit of Citigroup Inc. (“Citigroup”) that
provides investment advisory and management services to Citigroup-sponsored funds. In 1997,
CAM began a formal study of the transfer agent (“TA”) function in anticipation of the expiration
of the existing contract between the Funds and First Data Investor Services Group (“First Data”).
CAM representatives knew that First Data had been making high profit margins on the TA
contract. Instead of using its strong bargaining position to benefit the Funds in the negotiation of
a new TA contract, CAM sought to keep for itself much of the profit First Data had been making.
In fact, CAM did not pursue or inform the Funds’ boards of an offer by First Data to continue to
perform all transfer agent services for the Funds at a $25 million annual fee discount.
3.
CAM ultimately recommended that the Funds replace First Data with an affiliate
of the Adviser. The recommended structure called for the affiliated TA (which is now Citicorp
Trust Bank, fsb (“CTB”))2 to contract directly with the Funds as named TA, perform limited
functions and sub-contract with First Data for the bulk of the transfer agent services. (CAM
referred to First Data as “sub-TA.”) Except for a small customer service function that the
affiliated TA would undertake, First Data would continue to perform the same work it had
1	

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offer and are not binding on any
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.

2	

The Adviser initially anticipated that it would serve as the TA, but subsequently
determined that CTB should serve as the TA.

2


performed under the expiring contract, but at a significant discount from the fees it had been
charging the Funds – a discount that would start at 33.5% and increase to as much as 60% over
the five-year term of the contract. CAM kept the majority of the savings it had negotiated with
First Data for itself, and offered the Funds a limited fee reduction through the institution of fee
caps.
4.
CAM should have first offered these substantial savings to the Funds, as an
opportunity belonging to the Funds. At the very least, CAM should have disclosed this
opportunity for significant savings to the Funds. CAM did neither. Instead, CAM took this
opportunity for itself and then presented a recommendation to the Funds’ boards in a memo that
gave them the impression that the affiliated TA proposal was the best deal that the Funds could
have achieved, which was not true. In presenting its recommendation to the Funds’ boards,
CAM did not disclose that First Data was to perform almost all of the same work as before, with
the affiliated TA taking most of the profit for doing limited work.
5.
CAM’s recommendation also contained numerous material misrepresentations
about the particulars of the arrangement, including the extent of the benefits CAM would realize.
Among other things, CAM failed to disclose that it had entered into a side letter agreement (the
“Side Letter”) with First Data, pursuant to which First Data committed to providing millions of
dollars of investment banking and asset management revenue to Citigroup entities (the “Revenue
Guarantee”).
6.
Over the past five years, CTB has received more than $100 million in net fees for
operating a small customer service call center and performing limited additional oversight and
quality control functions at a total cost of approximately $11 million.
RESPONDENTS
7.
The Adviser is a limited liability company organized under the laws of Delaware
and a subsidiary of Citigroup Global Market Holdings, Inc. The Adviser is registered with the
Commission as an investment adviser pursuant to Section 203(c) of the Advisers Act, and serves
as investment adviser to the Funds. The Adviser is part of CAM, the Citigroup business unit that
provides investment advisory and management services to Citigroup-sponsored funds, including
the Funds.
8.
Global Markets is a New York corporation and a direct subsidiary of Citigroup
Global Markets Holdings, Inc., and an indirect subsidiary of Citigroup. Formerly known as
Salomon Smith Barney Inc., Global Markets is a registered investment adviser and brokerdealer. The asset management segment of Global Markets falls within the CAM business unit.
OTHER RELEVANT ENTITIES
9.
CTB is a chartered federal savings bank and is an indirect subsidiary of Citigroup.
CTB is registered with the Commission as a transfer agent and an investment adviser. The
Commission is the appropriate regulatory agency for CTB as transfer agent. CTB provides
customer service and oversight functions for the Funds and contracts with PFPC, Inc. (“PFPC”),
as successor to First Data, for technology, transaction processing and other services. In addition,

3


CTB’s trust department provides investment advisory and other services for high net worth
clients.
10.
Citigroup is a global financial services company that was organized under the
laws of Delaware and maintains its headquarters in New York, New York. Citigroup was
formed in October 1998, by the merger of Citicorp and Travelers Group Inc. (“Travelers”). Prior
to the merger, the Adviser, Global Markets and CAM (which was formerly known as Salomon
Smith Barney Asset Management), were divisions or subsidiaries of Travelers.
11.
The Funds consist of more than 105 open-end management investment
companies registered with the Commission, and include equity, money market, fixed income,
municipal, and various specialty funds. The Funds currently have more than $97 billion in
assets. Currently, and at all relevant times, all of the directors of the Funds are unaffiliated
except the chairman, who is an employee and officer of the Adviser.
12.
CAM is the Citigroup business unit that provides investment advisory and
management services to Citigroup-sponsored funds, including the Funds. Various Citigroup
entities fall within and comprise CAM, including the Adviser, the asset management operations
of Global Markets, and the other registered investment advisers for the Citigroup-sponsored
funds. Although the investment advisers, including the Adviser, are separate juridical entities,
with their own officers and employees, they are limited in size and function. The bulk of the
administrative services that the advisers provide to their respective fund families are performed
by Global Markets employees who fall within the CAM unit.
13.
First Data, a subsidiary of First Data Corporation, provided transfer agent and
other services to mutual funds for a portion of the relevant period. First Data served as fullservice TA to the Funds from June 1, 1989 until September 30, 1999, after which it became subTA. In or around December 1999, First Data Corporation sold the transfer agent unit to PFPC,
which assumed the role of sub-TA for the Funds. (The term “First Data” will be used to refer to
the TA unit. The parent company will be referred to as “First Data Corporation.”)
14.
PFPC acquired First Data in late 1999, assumed First Data’s obligations under a
sub-TA agreement with CTB, and now serves as sub-TA for the Funds.
FACTS
The TA Function and First Data Contract
15.
From 1994 through September 30, 1999, First Data served as full-service TA for
the Funds. As transfer agent, First Data performed a variety of functions for the Funds,
including processing buy and sell transactions in Fund shares, processing dividend transactions,
calculating daily net asset value, calculating sales charges and commissions, operating a
customer service call center, distributing proxy and other materials, and performing a variety of
additional accounting functions, including year-end tax reporting.

4


16.
The Fund business was very profitable to First Data as a result of a very favorable
fee schedule and the low cost of servicing the Funds. Because the Funds are proprietary – sold
mostly by Smith Barney brokers – many of the TA functions are and at all relevant times were
highly automated. In addition, Smith Barney brokers performed most of the customer service
work – shareholders typically called them with questions and requests. Accordingly, First Data’s
customer service function was limited, and consisted primarily of a small call center of
approximately eight to twelve people who fielded inquiries from Smith Barney brokers and
shareholders who did not have brokers (who constitute a small minority of Fund shareholders).
As a result of a favorable fee schedule and the low cost of servicing the Funds, First Data
realized high profit margins throughout the 1990s, particularly in the late 1990s, when the fee
structure changed from a per-account fee to a fee based on a percentage of assets. As a result of
strong markets of the late 1990s, the Fund assets, and thus TA fees, increased.
The TA Review Process
17.
Pursuant to a non-compete agreement between the predecessors of First Data and
the respondents, CAM was prevented from offering TA services until the expiration of that noncompete agreement in 1999. With the First Data contract and the non-compete provision due to
expire in June 1999, CAM retained Deloitte & Touche Consulting (“Deloitte”) in July 1997 to
assist it in reviewing the TA function and options going forward. The Deloitte team worked
closely with representatives of CAM, including a Global Markets executive vice president who
was in charge of the review and negotiation process (the “EVP”), and a Global Markets
managing director who also served as senior vice president of the Adviser (the “SVP”).
18.
Deloitte and CAM established several objectives, including improving service to
Fund shareholders and increasing flexibility for the future. But CAM also wanted to capture
some of the profits that First Data was making on the TA contract. CAM determined that it
would enter the TA business and it directed Deloitte to develop a variety of options to
accomplish this.
19.
During the first phase of the review process, Deloitte and CAM analyzed different
structural alternatives to determine which model was most appropriate in light of CAM’s
established objectives. Deloitte and CAM analyzed the models based on information obtained
from First Data and two of its competitors – DST and SunGard. Deloitte and CAM assessed
several different models, including a “full-service” option, a “remote vendor” option, and full
internalization.
a.	

The full-service option called for CAM to create an affiliated TA unit of
approximately fourteen people to perform oversight and control functions
and to contract with DST to provide the bulk of transfer agent functions.
Under the full-service option, DST would receive the bulk of the fees;
Deloitte projected that CAM would realize annual profits of
approximately $8.3 million. A draft Deloitte presentation dated
November 4, 1997 noted: “DST full service provides little cost advantage
over the current state” (under which CAM received no revenue).

5


b.	

The remote vendor alternative called for CAM to create an affiliated TA
unit to handle customer service and operations and to contract with DST,
First Data or SunGard for technology only. Deloitte estimated that the
internal TA unit would require 121 full-time employees. The November 4
presentation noted that the remote vendor option required a greater initial
investment and conversion effort than the DST full service option, but
offered greater annual profit to CAM (between $16.1 and $22.8 million).

c.	

The full-internalization option called for CAM to assume responsibility
for all aspects of the TA function, including technology (by acquiring
software). Although full-internalization would have offered the highest
projected profit – approximately $48 million per year – the option would
have taken more than eighteen months to implement and would have
required a staff of approximately 236 full-time employees. Because of the
long implementation time and extensive start-up costs required by this
option, Deloitte and CAM decided not to pursue it.

20.
CAM and Deloitte concluded that the remote vendor option, which offered
significantly greater profit to CAM than the full-service option, was the preferred alternative.
Accordingly, Deloitte and CAM solicited remote vendor bids from First Data, DST and
SunGard. DST and SunGard responded with remote vendor proposals. First Data declined to
submit a remote vendor bid, and instead proposed to renew as full-service TA with a modest fee
discount of its rate under the existing contract of approximately ten percent.
Deloitte and CAM’s Recommendation to Contract with DST
21.
After analyzing the specific proposals it received from the vendors, in February
1998, Deloitte recommended that CAM contract with DST as remote service provider. The DST
proposal, as of February 1998, called for CAM to create an affiliated TA unit of approximately
100 employees to handle customer service and operations, and to contract with DST for
technology. The CAM affiliate would be the named TA, receive fees from the Funds and pay
DST a per account fee for technology. Deloitte projected that the CAM affiliate would receive
more than $40 million per year in profit under the proposal.
22.
Deloitte concluded that DST’s proposal was superior to other options, including
options utilizing First Data, in terms of both pricing and technology. Because First Data had not
submitted a remote vendor proposal and had offered only a modest fee discount, the DST
proposal was greatly superior in terms of the profit potential it offered to CAM. As for
technology, Deloitte found that DST offered industry-leading technology (superior to that of
First Data) and that switching to DST would better position the Funds for the future.
23.
After learning that it was at risk of losing the business, First Data offered
significant fee discounts. By letter dated March 12, 1998, First Data offered a $25 million
annual “fee concession” to CAM if the Funds renewed with First Data as full-service TA. In the
March 12 letter, First Data committed to increasing the level of resources First Data dedicated to
the Funds and to offering Smith Barney brokers use of SuRPAS, First Data’s proprietary sub-

6


accounting system. The SuRPAS system would permit Smith Barney brokers to charge investors
a processing fee on sales of non-proprietary (non-Smith Barney) funds, and generate an
additional $40 million in annual revenue. In addition, by the middle of March 1998, First Data
had pointed out to CAM that First Data Corporation provided $9 million in revenue to various
Citigroup (then Travelers) entities through investment banking fees, asset management fees and
the purchase of insurance and other products.
24.
CAM, however, did not pursue the option of renewing with First Data as fullservice TA and passing along the proposed discount directly to the Funds. Nor did CAM inform
the Funds’ boards that First Data had made the offer to renew as full-service TA at deeply
discounted rates. Instead, CAM pursued a deal that would allow CAM to benefit from the
discounts First Data was offering.
25.
Later in March, First Data improved its bid and offered a deeper discount,
measured as a percentage of the total annual TA fees that First Data would receive from the
Funds. The discounts would start at 32% in 1999 and increase by two percentage points each
year, reaching 40% of total TA fees in 2003. Deloitte and CAM projected that the percentage
discounts would translate into $21 million the first year and grow to $39 million in the final year
of the contract.
26.
Deloitte questioned whether the discount offered by First Data would be passed
along to the Funds or kept by an internal affiliated TA, which would perform only limited duties.
In a presentation dated March 24, 1998, Deloitte wrote:
Clarify the “Discount” proposed
A true discount would go to the funds, not SSB TA.
This relationship will be extremely difficult to sell to the fund
boards.
(Emphasis in original.)
27.
After considering First Data’s improved offer, CAM representatives concluded, as
did Deloitte, that contracting with DST as remote service provider was the best option and made
a formal recommendation to the chief executive officer of CAM (the “CEO”), by memorandum
dated April 2, 1998. The April 2 memo stated that the DST proposal was superior to the First
Data proposal in terms of technology and pricing. The memo reiterated Deloitte’s findings
regarding technology, and indicated that the DST proposal offered $139 million more in profit to
CAM over the projected five-year contract period than the First Data proposal offered. The
April 2 memo noted that there was conversion risk with switching to DST, but concluded that the
conversion risk was minimal.
28.
The April 2 memo noted that switching to DST could cost affiliates of Citigroup –
then Travelers – $8 to $10 million annually in lost revenues from First Data Corporation. The
memo concluded:

7


Based on economics and technology, our recommendation is to
move the Transfer Agency processing to DST. We realize that a
corporate relationship exists between First Data and [Travelers]
and that relationship should be considered before any decision is
made.
The CEO agreed with the recommendation.
CAM Continues Negotiating With First Data
29.
Sometime after April 2, 1998, Travelers senior management directed CAM to
continue to negotiate with First Data, stating a preference for remaining with First Data if First
Data improved its offer to the point where it was roughly equivalent to the DST proposal in
terms of pricing. Accordingly, CAM continued negotiating with First Data.
30.
On April 6, 1998, Travelers announced a proposed merger with Citicorp. The
contemplated merger increased the risk of converting to a new service provider because it would
decrease the resources available for such a conversion.
31.
In a letter dated June 5, 1998, First Data set forth an improved offer, which
increased the discount First Data was willing to offer. The June 5 letter included the following
fee schedule:
June 1, 1999 to Dec. 31, 2000
Jan. 1 to Dec. 31, 2001
Jan. 1, 2002 to Dec. 31, 2003
Jan. 1, 2004 to Dec. 31, 2004

32% discount on total fee revenue
35% discount on fee revenue up to $80 million
60% discount on fee revenue over $80 million
50% discount on fee revenue up to $80 million
60% discount on fee revenue over $80 million
55% discount on fee revenue up to $80 million
60% discount on fee revenue over $80 million

Deloitte’s Renewed Warnings Regarding First Data Proposal
32.
Deloitte again questioned the structure of First Data’s proposal. In a presentation
dated June 10, 1998, entitled “Transfer Agency Project: Lunch and Learn – Financial Model
Review,” Deloitte questioned the structure in two respects. First, Deloitte questioned whether
CAM could justify receiving TA fees for operating a fourteen-person customer service center.
We Anticipate a Larger Organization Would be Needed to Satisfy
the Fund Boards in the First Data Scenario.
* * *
We believe at a minimum, the SSB TA would have to assume
responsibility for Customer Service and Transaction Processing to
justify receiving TA fees. This would require at least 65 [full-time
employees] (rather than 14)

8


33.
Second, Deloitte questioned the legality of the discount taking the form of a
rebate to be paid to CAM, not the Funds.
First Data’s proposal requires that First Data remains the TA; First
Data receives full revenues of TA fees, providing a “rebate” to
SSB (proposed as a “discount” by First Data)
This legal structure is questionable at best. Our advisers indicate
that this arrangement would in no way be acceptable to the fund
boards and may not be legally viable.
Deloitte’s written warning about the legality of the structure followed several occasions on
which Deloitte’s team leader raised the issue orally with CAM representatives.
34.
Sometime after June 10, 1998, CAM clarified that the CAM-affiliated TA unit
would serve as the named TA and First Data would serve as sub-TA. Under this structure, all
TA fees would pass through the CAM affiliate, so First Data would not be collecting fees and
“rebating” them to CAM. This clarification, however, did not address the substance of Deloitte’s
concerns. CAM did not change the proposed size or scope of responsibility of the affiliated TA
unit – it would still be limited to a small customer service center. In addition, even though there
would be no “rebate” in a strict sense of the word, the affiliated unit would still be taking the fee
discount offered by First Data for itself, instead of passing it along to the Funds.
CAM’s Decision to Recommend First Data Proposal
35.
In July 1998, First Data improved its offer in three respects. First, it increased the
fee discount. Second, it agreed to migrate the Funds from its old technology to its more modern
Full Service Retail (“FSR”) platform. Third, by letter dated July 14, 1998, First Data offered the
Revenue Guarantee. The July 14 letter stated:
First Data Corporation and Travelers will agree on a “basket of
services” from which First Data Corporation will generate $8
million of revenue to Travelers annually. A “make-whole”
provision will be included which commits First Data Corporation
to a fee credit on transfer agent services for any shortfall to the $8
million. The credit will be 50 cents on each dollar of revenue
shortfall.
36.
By memorandum to the CEO dated July 24, 1998, the EVP recommended that
CAM establish an affiliated TA unit of approximately fifteen people to assume responsibility for
the customer service call center and contract with First Data for the bulk of the transfer agency
services. The memo estimated the cost of the fifteen call center employees would be $1 million
per year.

9


37.
Although the structure of the proposal had been changed so that First Data would
not pay a “rebate” to CAM, in substance the fee arrangement remained largely the same as in the
prior proposals – First Data would be sharing its profits with CAM. The July 24 memo set forth
the following fee arrangement, which was referred to in the memo as a “revenue sharing
arrangement”:

Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Year 5

Percentage that is earned by [CAM] on:
First $80MM
Over $80 MM [in total TA fees]
33.5%
33.5%
40
60
55
60
55
60
58
60

38.
The memo projected that CAM would earn the following profit under the revenue
sharing arrangement (taking into account the $1 million in salaries projected for new staff):
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Year 5

$29 million 

$40 million
$57 million
$62 million
$70 million










39.
The July 24 memo indicated that Citigroup’s projected profit under the First Data
proposal was $16 million less over the five-year contract period than its projected profit under
the DST proposal. The EVP recommended accepting the differential because contracting with
First Data eliminated risks associated with the conversion process and permitted CAM personnel
to focus on issues relating to Y2K, the integration of the Salomon Brothers funds, and the
Travelers-Citicorp merger, which had been announced in April of that year.
40.
The July 24 memo also stated that, because of CAM’s fiduciary obligations to the
Funds, it was obligated to implement a fee reduction. The recommended reduction called for the
Funds to continue to pay the same asset-based fees that were being charged by First Data, subject
to caps that limited TA fees to the lesser of the asset-based fee or a set amount (which ranged
from $13 to $14.50 per account). The July 24 memo projected an annual fee reduction of $6-$8
million.
41.
The July 24 memo noted that because of the different structures of the DST and
First Data proposals, implementing the fee reduction would virtually eliminate the $16 million
differential between the DST and First Data proposals. This was because the reduced revenue
stream that would result from the fee reduction would have a greater impact on CAM’s profit
under the DST proposal than under the First Data proposal.
42.
With respect to the Revenue Guarantee, the July 24 memo indicated that First
Data had committed to:

10


•	 Providing CAM with additional assets to manage sufficient to generate $1.5
million per year in asset management fees.
•	 Making Salomon Smith Barney First Data’s investment banker of choice and
generating at least $3 million per year in investment banking fees.
•	 Paying 50 cents for every dollar of shortfall of investment banking fees and 90
cents for every dollar of shortfall of asset management fees, by way of credit on
TA fees paid by CAM to First Data.
The memo stated that the Revenue Guarantee would generate at least $22.5 million in revenue or
$14 million of “pre-tax bottom line” over the five years of the agreement.
43.
Finally, in a section entitled “Mutual Fund Board Issues,” the memo stated that
the chairman of the Funds’ boards, who was an officer of CAM, was “comfortable that the new
First Data arrangement is supportable to the Fund boards.” The memo noted that service levels,
“while good, will improve,” and the Funds would receive a fee reduction.
44.

The CEO approved the recommendation.

The Sub-TA Agreement and Side Letter
45.
On August 4, 1998, First Data produced the first draft of the Side Letter, which
addressed the Revenue Guarantee and other significant commitments between the parties,
including First Data’s commitment to migrate the Funds to FSR.
46.
Representatives of CAM and First Data negotiated the terms of the Side Letter
and simultaneously prepared a formal sub-TA agreement (the “Sub-TA Agreement”) between
First Data and Mutual Management Corp., the Citigroup entity initially chosen by CAM to serve
as the affiliated TA. At some point prior to the finalization of the two agreements, First Data’s
commitment to migrate the Funds to FSR was removed from the Side Letter and included as a
schedule to the Sub-TA Agreement.
47.
Both agreements were finalized on November 20, 1998. The Side Letter, which
specifically referenced the Sub-TA Agreement, contained the following provisions:
•	 the Revenue Guarantee;
•	 First Data’s commitment to provide its SuRPAS system for sub-accounting;
•	 CAM’s commitment to treat First Data as “favored nation vendor” for proxy and
fulfillment services (which required CAM to solicit a bid from First Data when
proxy and fulfillment services were required and to recommend First Data if
CAM determined in good faith that its bid was competitive with the other bids
received);
•	 CAM’s agreement, subject to its fiduciary duties, to “use all reasonable and
lawful means to encourage the Funds” to continue [First Data] as sub-transfer
agent for existing Funds and any or all subsequent expansion, consolidation,
affiliation, or addition to the Funds for which CAM provides investment
management services”; and

11


•	 CAM’s agreement to consider in good faith retaining or recommending First Data
to provide other services to the Funds.
48.
The Sub-TA Agreement included an integration clause, which provided that the
Agreement, “including Schedules, Addenda and Exhibits” thereto, constituted the parties’ entire
agreement about the subject matter of the Sub-TA Agreement and superseded all prior and
contemporaneous agreements regarding the subject matter. Notwithstanding the obvious
significance to the Funds of the benefits to CAM affiliates contained in the Side Letter, the Side
Letter (or its substance) was not provided to the Funds’ boards or filed with the Commission as
part of the Funds’ registration statements.
The Materially Misleading Board Materials
49.
In late February-early March 1999, CAM prepared a memorandum (the “Board
Memo”) and a Power Point presentation (the “Power Point”) to present to the Funds’ boards
concerning its recommendation for a new TA contract. CAM included the final version of the
Board Memo, which is dated March 4, 1999, and the Sub-TA Agreement in the materials that it
sent to board members in advance of the meetings. Neither the Side Letter nor the Power Point
was included in the packet of materials that was sent to board members.
50.
The Board Memo did not candidly present the proposal in terms that would have
made clear to the boards that First Data would continue to perform almost all of the TA
functions, leaving CTB with a tremendous profit for manning a fifteen-person call center and
performing limited additional oversight and quality control functions. The Board Memo did not
explain in a meaningful way how duties were to be divided between CTB and First Data. To the
contrary, the Board Memo gave the misleading impression that First Data was providing
“technology” only, which was not true, and that CTB would be a much more substantial
operation than it actually would be.
51.
The board materials also stated that CAM approached the TA review process by
looking at all available alternatives to provide the Funds with better service at lower prices. This
was also untrue. From the beginning, CAM approached the review process with the goal of
maximizing profit to CAM and, in order to attain its own goals, CAM did not pursue options that
would have provided much greater value to the Funds. Contrary to representations in the board
materials, the only options CAM ever seriously considered were options that involved making a
CAM affiliate the TA. The Board Memo did not disclose that First Data had made a series of
offers to perform all TA services at deeply discounted rates -- including the initial $25 million
annual fee discount offer and the later percentage-based discount offers -- all proposals that, if
offered directly to the Funds, would have provided greater savings than the proposal CAM
recommended.
52.
Even with respect to the alternatives that CAM actually considered, CAM did not
disclose that Deloitte and CAM management had initially recommended DST; that CAM
resumed negotiating with First Data only after Travelers management had requested that they do
so because First Data was an investment banking client; and that CAM decided to recommend

12


First Data only after First Data had increased the value of its proposal to CAM and offered the
Revenue Guarantee. In fact, CAM failed to disclose the Side Letter or any of its terms.
53.
Instead of making full and accurate disclosure regarding the TA review process
and CAM’s interest in the proposal, the Board Memo gave the incorrect impression that CAM
was acting in the Funds’ best interest and had expended significant effort and money to identify
and negotiate the best deal for the Funds. The introduction of the Board Memo contains the
following statement:
[I]n anticipation of the expiration of the non-compete agreement
[with First Data], SSB began an exhaustive study in late 1997
utilizing the services of Deloitte Consulting to examine transfer
agency alternatives to First Data with the goal of reducing fees,
improving service and offering the Smith Barney Funds access to
alternative channels of distribution (e.g., 401k) to promote further
growth. This effort was completed in mid-1998 at a cost of $2.5
million.
54.
This paragraph is inaccurate and misleading. Reducing fees was not a goal of the
review process. The idea of a fee reduction was first raised in the summer of 1998, by the
chairman of the Funds’ boards, and was separate from the decision on how to structure the TA
function.
55.
The Board Memo bolstered the case for the recommended proposal by giving the
incorrect impression that no viable alternatives existed. The following paragraph, entitled
“Change of Transfer Agent Vendor,” was intended to describe all remote TA vendor proposals,
including the DST proposal.
Results showed that the internalization of transfer agency functions
and engagement of another technology vendor could reduce the
fees paid by the Smith Barney Funds and also be the most
profitable alternative to SSB. However, full internalization of the
transfer agent functionality would have entailed the creation of an
organization of 150 employees. In addition, the conversion and
software modifications required to migrate to a new technology
and services provider would have taken at least two and a half
years. In short the Smith Barney Funds would not realize any cost
savings for several years under this scenario.
56.
The paragraph failed to discuss the DST proposal in any detail or to disclose that
Deloitte had recommended it. In addition, to the extent that the figures contained in the
paragraph were intended to describe the DST proposal, they are inaccurate. The DST proposal
would have required CAM to hire approximately 100 employees, not 150; the conversion to DST
would have taken twelve to eighteen months, not thirty; and under the DST proposal the Funds
would have realized savings in the first year after conversion. Moreover, the paragraph falsely
suggests that CAM was foregoing some profit and recommending First Data in order to pass

13


along fee reductions to the Funds. The First Data proposal, however, was economically superior
– for CAM and its affiliates – to the DST proposal.
57.
In a separate paragraph, the Board Memo reinforced the false impression that
CAM was sacrificing its own interests to the benefit of the Funds:
The decision to remain with First Data and establish and internal
transfer agency capability was made with the recognition that
although not the most favorable option financially to SSB, it
represented a prudent course of action with immediate results. The
revenue shortfall as a result of accepting the proposed First Data
contract over our most attractive alternative was approximately
$16.0 million.
58.
These statements are incorrect. The First Data proposal was projected to provide
greater profit to CAM than the DST proposal, not $16 million less.
59.
Although the Board Memo disclosed that the affiliated TA would make a profit,
the disclosure regarding the economic benefit to CAM was limited and misleading. The only
paragraph of the Board Memo that discusses the projected profit to CAM appears in a section
entitled “Proposed Transfer Agency Fee and Fund Savings Analysis,” and states:
SSB commits to reviewing the transfer agent service and fees on
an annual basis with the Smith Barney Fund boards. SSB
anticipates that the SSB transfer agency business unit will operate
on a 33% margin based on the June 1, 1999 First Data fee
schedules. While First Data discounts may increase over the life of
the contract, it is expected that expenses will rise on a
commensurate basis as SSB adds to its transfer agent capabilities.
60.
At the time, CAM was projecting that it would earn tens of millions of dollars in
profit each year for operating a fifteen person call center and performing limited additional
oversight and quality control functions. There was no meaningful disclosure about how limited
the services were that CTB was to contribute in return for all this profit.
61.
Because virtually all of the work was to be done by First Data, the 33% profit
margin figure was itself misleading. The margin was based on an analysis that treated sub-TA
payments to First Data as expenses of CTB. The economic reality would have been more
accurately portrayed by deducting payments to First Data from revenue – not treating them as
expenses of CTB. CTB is essentially a pass-through for those payments. In fact, internally,
CAM described the fee arrangement with First Data as a revenue sharing agreement. Had
payments to First Data not been treated as an expense of CTB, the projected pre-tax profit
margin would have been approximately 70%.
62.
The Power Point disclosed that “Revenue Generation” was one of CAM’s goals,
and included a table that contained profit projections in dollar amounts. The table, however, was

14


not provided to the directors in advance of the meeting. Had board members received the
projections in advance and had the opportunity to scrutinize them, they at least would have had a
chance to understand that CAM expected to earn tens of millions in profit. But they still would
not have understood just how limited CAM’s proposed contribution to the venture really was.
63.
Finally, the Board Memo incorrectly indicated that the fees charged to the Funds
by First Data were significantly below industry average.
CTB’s Fees and Expenses as TA
64.
At regularly scheduled meetings during the first half of 1999, the Adviser
presented the proposal to the Funds’ boards – including counsel for the Funds and directors –
which approved the proposal. During a transition period between June 1999 and October 1999,
CAM received revenue from First Data associated with the establishment of the affiliated TA
unit. On October 1, 1999, a CAM affiliate, now CTB, became the named TA for the Funds, and
assumed responsibility for the customer service function; First Data – now PFPC – continued to
perform the bulk of the TA services as sub-TA. As named TA, CTB receives 100% of the fees
and makes sub-TA payments to PFPC and to Primerica Financial Services (“PFS”), a Citigroup
affiliate that sells certain of the Funds and performs sub-TA work.3
65.
CTB currently has approximately fifteen employees performing work for the
Funds, only seven of whom work full-time for the Funds. As intended, CTB has realized high
profits for performing limited work. The one function that CTB assumed from First Data/PFPC
is the customer service function, which consists primarily of a call center staffed by seven fulltime employees who are dedicated to Fund business. Five of those employees answer calls; two
are supervisors. The seven call center staff members are the only CTB employees who spend all
of their time on Fund-related work.
66.
CAM representatives supervise the TA operations of CTB, which are part of the
CAM business unit for budget and reporting purposes. CAM is responsible for the cost of
CTB’s TA operations and receives the benefit of the revenue that the TA operations generate.
67.
For the period October 1, 1999 through September 30, 2004, CTB earned net pretax revenues of approximately $104 million from Fund business (which is lower than projected
due to, among other things the downturn in the market that began in 2001). Over the same
period, CTB has had total operating expenses (excluding sub-TA payments) of approximately
$11.5 million. In addition, CAM and its affiliates received approximately $17 million under the
Revenue Guarantee.

3

The approved TA arrangement included implementation of per account fee caps. The fee
caps had the effect of lowering the total fees paid by the Funds by 23% for the period
June 1999, when the fee caps were implemented, through September 2004. During the
first quarter of 2003, CTB requested a fee increase from the Funds’ boards, but withdrew
the request after it was rejected by one board.

15


VIOLATIONS

68.
The Adviser and Global Markets willfully violated Section 206(1) of the Advisers
Act in that they employed devices, schemes or artifices to defraud clients or prospective clients.
Specifically, the Adviser and Global Markets violated Section 206(1) by knowingly or recklessly
failing to disclose to the Funds’ boards that First Data had offered to do the same work for
substantially less and by failing to disclose the contents of the Side Letter to the Funds’ boards.
69.
The Adviser and Global Markets also willfully violated Section 206(2) in that
they engaged in transactions, practices, or courses of businesses that operated or would operate
as a fraud or deceit upon clients or prospective clients.4 Specifically, the Adviser and Global
Markets violated Section 206(2) by virtue of the omissions described in the preceding paragraph
and the other misrepresentations and omissions discussed above in the materials provided to the
boards in support of the recommendation.
UNDERTAKINGS
70.
The Adviser and Global Markets shall comply with the Citigroup Policy
Regarding Retention of Service Providers by Advisers to Proprietary Mutual Funds (the “Vendor
Policy”), adopted on August 2, 2004, and amended on March 28, 2005, which provides, among
other things, that for certain service provider contracts for the Funds, the Adviser shall, when
requested by a Fund board, retain at its own expense an independent consulting expert to advise
and assist the board on the selection of service providers and negotiation of service provider
contracts. The Vendor Policy requires Citigroup to provide advanced written notification of any
material amendments to the Vendor Policy to counsel for the boards of directors of all pertinent
funds, and, for a five-year period ending on March 28, 2010, to obtain the written consent of the
Commission staff before making any material amendments.
71.
With respect to the Funds’ existing TA contract, the Adviser shall provide the
Funds’ boards with a recommendation for a new contract within 180 days of the date of entry of
the Order. In connection with that recommendation, the Adviser shall abide the following
procedures:

4

A. 	

Within 45 days of the date of entry of the Order, the Adviser shall
determine and advise the Funds’ boards and the staff of the Commission
whether CTB or any other Citigroup affiliate may submit a proposal to
serve as TA or sub-TA for the Funds.

B. 	

If the Adviser determines that no Citigroup affiliate will submit a proposal
to serve as TA or sub-TA for the Funds, the Adviser shall follow the
Vendor Policy in making a recommendation to the Funds’ boards. The
Adviser shall inform the Funds’ boards that, in accordance with the
Vendor Policy, the Funds’ boards have the option of retaining, at the

A violation of Section 206(2) of the Advisers Act does not require a finding of scienter.
SEC v. Capital Gains Research Bureau, Inc., 375 U.S. 180, 195 (1963).
16


Funds’ expense, an independent consulting expert to advise and assist the
boards.
C. 	

If the Adviser determines that CTB or another Citigroup affiliate may
submit a proposal to serve as TA or sub-TA for the Funds, the Adviser
shall abide the following procedures:
1. 	

Within 45 days of making the determination that CTB or another
Citigroup affiliate may submit a proposal to serve as TA or sub-TA
for the Funds, the Adviser shall retain an independent monitor (the
“Monitor”) not unacceptable to the Commission staff to oversee a
competitive bidding process. The Monitor shall be accountable
only to the Funds’ boards, but its compensation and expenses shall
be paid exclusively by the Adviser or Global Markets. The
Adviser shall require the Monitor to enter into an agreement that
provides that for the period of engagement and for a period of two
years from completion of the engagement, the Monitor shall not
enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or
other professional relationship with any of the Respondents or any
of their present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees,
or agents acting in their capacity as such other than an agreement
to serve as an independent consulting expert pursuant to the
Vendor Policy. The agreement will also provide that the Monitor
will require that any firm with which he or she is affiliated or of
which he or she is a member, and any person engaged to assist the
Monitor in performance of his or her duties under this Order, shall
not, without prior written consent of the independent members of
the Funds’ boards and the staff of the Commission enter into any
employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other
professional relationship with any of the Respondents or any of
their present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or
agents acting in their capacity as such, other than pursuant to an
agreement to serve as independent consulting expert pursuant to
the Vendor Policy, for the period of the engagement and a period
of two years after the engagement.

2. 	

The Adviser shall make reasonable efforts to obtain competitive
proposals from one or more vendors unaffiliated with Citigroup. If
a proposal submitted by a Citigroup subsidiary or affiliate provides
for more than one Citigroup subsidiary or affiliate to provide TA
services (for example, one as TA and another as sub-TA), the
proposal will be treated as a single proposal. The Adviser need not
solicit competitive bids with respect to the component parts of the
proposal.

3.	

The Adviser shall require the Monitor to oversee the competitive
bidding process and make such recommendations to the Adviser as

17


it deems appropriate, including as to the necessity of obtaining
more than one competitive proposal.

D. 	

4. 	

After concluding the evaluation and negotiation process, the
Adviser shall make a recommendation to the Funds’ boards in
accordance with the requirements of the Vendor Policy.

5. 	

The Adviser shall require the Monitor to report to the Funds’
boards at the conclusion of the process concerning the
reasonableness of the competitive bidding process and the
Adviser’s recommendation.

6.	

Respondents shall cooperate fully with the Monitor and provide
the Monitor with access to their files, books, records, and
personnel as reasonably requested for the bidding, negotiation and
recommendation process.

Global Markets shall ensure that each investment adviser follows the
procedures outlined in Paragraph 71.B-C above with respect to the next
renewal of all other existing contracts for the provision of transfer agent
services to any mutual funds registered under the Investment Company
Act of 1940 for which Global Markets or its affiliates serve as the adviser
and principal underwriter.

72.
Respondents shall escrow all TA fees received from the Funds under the existing
TA contract less sub-payments made to sub-TAs and the actual operational costs and expenses
incurred by CTB in providing TA services for the Funds for the period from December 1, 2004
through the effective date of a new TA contract for the Funds (the “Escrow Period”). In the
event that the TA fees paid by the Funds to the Respondents during the Escrow Period are
greater than the TA fees that the Funds would have paid under the new TA contract had it been
in effect during the Escrow period, Respondents shall distribute to the Funds the escrowed
amounts up to the difference between those fees within 90 days of the effective date of the new
TA contract and in accordance with a plan of distribution that is not unacceptable to the
Commission staff. Nothing in this paragraph is intended to limit the options of the Funds’
boards with respect to TA fees paid during the Escrow Period.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest
to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondents’ Offer. Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED
that:
A.	

Pursuant to Section 203(e) of the Advisers Act, the Adviser is hereby censured.

B.	

Pursuant to Section 203(e) of the Advisers Act and Section 15(b)(4) of the Exchange
Act, Global Markets is hereby censured.

18


C.	

Pursuant to Section 203(k) of the Advisers Act, the Adviser and Global Markets
shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future
violations of Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act.

D.	

The Adviser and Global Markets shall comply with the undertakings set forth in
paragraphs 70 through 72 above.

Disgorgement and Civil Money Penalties
E.	

The Adviser and Global Markets shall pay, on a joint and several basis,
disgorgement in the amount of $109,004,551.00, plus prejudgment interest of
$19,055,630.00. Of the disgorgement amount, Respondents shall be deemed to
have paid $17,004,551.00, which represents the amount received by Global
Markets and its affiliates under the Revenue Guarantee and which Respondents
have already paid, along with interest of $7,351,599.00 to the Funds. The
remaining disgorgement amount, $92,000,000.00, plus prejudgment interest of
$11,704,031.00, shall be paid to the United States Treasury within 10 days of the
entry of this Order. Such payments shall be: (1) made by United States postal
money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank money order; (2)
made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission; (3) hand-delivered or
mailed to the Office of Financial Management, Securities and Exchange
Commission, Operations Center, 6432 General Green Way, Stop 0-3, Alexandria,
Virginia 22312; and (4) submitted under cover letter that identifies Smith Barney
Fund Management LLC and Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. as Respondents in
these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings, a copy of which
cover letter and money order or check shall be sent to Mark K. Schonfeld,
Regional Director, Securities and Exchange Commission, Division of
Enforcement, Northeast Regional Office, 233 Broadway, New York, NY, 10279.

F. 	

Pursuant to Section 203(i) of the Advisers Act, the Adviser shall pay civil money
penalties in the amount of $80,000,000.00. Such payment shall be made to the
United States Treasury within 10 days of the entry of this Order. Such payment
shall be made to the United States Treasury within 10 days of the entry of this
Order and shall be: (1) made by United States postal money order, certified check,
bank cashier’s check, or bank money order; (2) made payable to the Securities
and Exchange Commission; (3) hand-delivered or mailed to the Office of
Financial Management, Securities and Exchange Commission, Operations Center,
6432 General Green Way, Stop 0-3, Alexandria, Virginia 22312; and (4)
submitted under cover letter that identifies Smith Barney Fund Management LLC
as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings, a
copy of which cover letter and money order or check shall be sent to Mark K.
Schonfeld, Regional Director, Securities and Exchange Commission, Division of
Enforcement, Northeast Regional Office, 233 Broadway, New York, NY, 10279.

G. 	

There shall be, pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, a
Fair Fund established for the funds described in Section IV.E and F. Regardless
of whether any such Fair Fund distribution is made, amounts ordered to be paid as
19


civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be treated as penalties paid to
the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To preserve the
deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondents agree that they shall not, in any
Related Investor Action, benefit from any offset or reduction of any investor’s
claim by the amount of any Fair Fund distribution to such investor in this
proceeding that is proportionately attributable to the civil penalty paid by
Respondents (“Penalty Offset”). If the court in any Related Investor Action
grants such an offset or reduction, Respondents agree that they shall, within 30
days after entry of a final order granting the offset or reduction, notify the
Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to
the United States Treasury or to a Fair Fund, as the Commission directs. Such a
payment shall not be deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed
to change the amount of the civil penalty imposed against Respondents in this
proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” means a
private damages action brought against any of the Respondents by or on behalf of
one or more investors based on substantially the same facts set forth in the Order
in this proceeding.
H.	

Within 90 days of the entry of this Order, Respondents shall submit to the
Commission a distribution plan, not unacceptable to the staff of the Division of
Enforcement, for notice in accordance with Rule 1103 of the Commission’s Rules
on Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans [17 C.F.R. § 201.1103]. Such plan shall
include an explanation of the method used to calculate the payments, the procedure
for distributing the disgorgement and interest, and provision for the disposition of
any funds not otherwise distributed. Respondents shall bear the costs of
administering and implementing the final plan of disgorgement.

I.	

Within ten days of the entry of the Commission order approving a final plan of
disgorgement, referenced in paragraph H above, the Office of Financial
Management shall return the funds to the Respondents for distribution in
accordance in with the plan of disgorgement. Within ten days of receipt of the
funds from the Office of Financial Management, Respondents shall distribute
the funds in accordance with the plan of disgorgement.

J. 	

Other Obligations and Requirements. Nothing in this Order shall relieve Adviser
or Global Markets of any other applicable legal obligation or requirement,
including any rule adopted by the Commission subsequent to this Order.

By the Commission.

Jonathan G. Katz
Secretary

20


21


