UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-11538

In the Matter of

J. MICHAEL SCARBOROUGH and
ROYAL ALLIANCE ASSOCIATES, INC.
Respondents.

PROPOSED PLAN OF DISTRIBUTION

I.
Purpose and Background. This Proposed Plan of Distribution (the "Plan") has
been developed pursuant to the Commission's Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-andDesist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist
Order Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 15(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (ReI. Nos. 33-8438 and 34-49982) against J. Michael Scarborough
("Scarborough") and Royal Alliance Associates, Inc. ("Royal Alliance") (collectively,
"Respondents"), dated July 8, 2004 (the "Order"). The Plan provides for the distribution of the
disgorgement, prejudgment interest, and civil monetary penalties provided for in the Order to
those customers of Royal Alliance who would have paid lower commissions and fees and
enjoyed higher overall returns but for the conduct described in the Order. Simultaneously with
the entry of the Order, the Commission accepted settlement offers from Scarborough and Royal
Alliance in which they consented to the entry of the Order without admitting or denying the
Order's findings.
The Order found, among other things, that Scarborough was the manager of the
Annapolis, Maryland branch office of Royal Alliance, a broker-dealer registered with the
Commission. The Order further found that, from 1998 through early 2000, Scarborough,
through the registered representatives under his supervision, sold Class B mutual fund shares to
customers of Royal Alliance in amounts that would have entitled the customers to "breakpoint"
sales charge discounts had they purchased Class A shares of the same mutual funds. Discounts
were available for large purchases (usually $100,000 or more) of Class A shares, often iricreasing
at various investment levels, or "breakpoints." Although Scarborough, along with the registered
representatives, disclosed the different characteristics of Class A shares and Class B shares to
customers, they did not tell customers that Class A shares generally produce higher returns than
Class B shares of the same mutual fund when purchased in amounts offino,ooo or more.
Between 1998 and early 2000, of the 406 Royal Alliance customers who qualified for a

breakpoint at the $100,000 level or above, 399 customers, or 98 percent, purchased Class B
shares even though all of these customers would have paid lower commissions and fees and
enjoyed higher overall returns had they purchased Class A shares. If all of the customers who
purchased Class B shares in amounts of $1 00,000 or more had purchased Class A shares instead,
they would have paid, and Scarborough and Royal Alliance would have received, $1.7 million
less in commissions.
As a result of this conduct, the Order found that Scarborough willfully violated Sections
17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933. The Order also found that Scarborough
failed reasonably to supervise the registered representatives at the Annapolis branch office who
engaged in this conduct under his direction, with a view to preventing their violations of Sections
17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act. Similarly, Royal Alliance failed reasonably to
supervise Scarborough, its branch manager, as well as the registered representatives, with a view
to preventing these violations of the securities laws.
The Order provided that Scarborough pay disgorgement and prejudgment interest in the
total amount of $2, III ,084, and pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of $50,000, and that
Royal Alliance pay $1 in disgorgement and a civil monetary penalty in the amount of$150,000.
In accordance with the Order, on August 18 and 24, 2004, Respondents paid a total of
$2,311,085 in disgorgement, prejudgment interest, and civil monetary penalties to the
Commission. Pursuant to the Order, a Fair Fund was established for these funds. The assets of
the Fair Fund are subject to the continuing jurisdiction and control of the Commission. The Fair
Fund is currently on deposit at the U.S. Treasury's Bureau of Public Debt and has been invested
in short-term U.S. Treasury securities.
This Plan is subject to approval by the Commission, and the Commission retains
jurisdiction over the implementation of the Plan.

2.
Fund Administrator. David S. Horowitz, an Assistant Regional Director in the
Commission's Division of Enforcement, is proposed to act as the administrator of the Fair Fund
(the "Fund Administrator"). As a Commission employee, the Fund Administrator shall receive
no compensation, other than his regular salary as a Commission employee, for his services in
administering the Fair Fund. In accordance with Rule II 05(c), no bond is required since the
Fund Administrator is a Commission employee.
The Fund Administrator will, among other things: oversee the administration of the Fair
Fund, obtain accurate mailing information for shareholders, prepare accountings, cooperate with
the tax administrator in providing the information necessary to accomplish income tax
compliance, and, as described below, distribute money from the Fair Fund in accordance with
this Plan.

3.
Persons Eligible to Participate in the Fair Fund. The staff of the Commission
previously identified approximately 400 Royal Alliance customers who, between 1998 and early
2000, qualified for a breakpoint at the $100,000 level or above, and who purchased Class B
mutual fund shares even though these customers would have paid approximately $1.7 million
less in commissions had they purchased Class A shares. The staffs determination was based on
2

breakpoint discounts that could have been received through single purchases, rights of
accumulation and/or letters of intent. l The Fund Administrator shall distribute Plan funds to
these identified Royal Alliance customers harmed by the conduct described in the Order
(individually, each "Eligible Customer," and collectively, the "Eligible Customers").

4.
No claims-made process. This Fair Fund is not being distributed according to a
claims-made process, so the procedures for providing notice and for making and approving
claims are not applicable.
5.
Qualified Settlement Fund. The Fair Fund constitutes a Qualified Settlement
Fund ("QSF") under Section 468B(g) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. §468B(g), and
related regulations, 26 C.F.R. §§1.468B-l through 1.468B-5.
6.
Intentions ofDistribution. The intention of the Plan is to distribute the Fair Fund
to approximately 400 Royal Alliance customers, each of whom is an Eligible Customer, who
paid excessive commissions to Scarborough and Royal Alliance from 1998 through early 2000,
as a result of the conduct described in the Order.
7.
Methodology for Determining Distribution Amounts. The Fund Administrator
will determine the amount to be distributed to each Eligible Customer in the following manner.
First, the Fund Administrator will determine what percentage of Eligible Customers' total excess
commissions paid is represented by each Eligible Customer's excess commissions. Next, for
each Eligible Customer, the Fund Administrator will multiply this percentage by the total amount
paid by the Respondents, plus any accrued interest and less any taxes, fees or other expenses of
administering the Plan. This amount will represent each Eligible Customer's distribution
amount. In the view of the Fund Administrator, this methodology constitutes a fair and
reasonable allocation of the Fair Fund. Based on this methodology, the anticipated distribution
to each Eligible Customer will average approximately $5,000, and will range from
approximately $700 to approximately $23,000.
8.
Financial Management Service; Validation and Approval ofDisbursement ofthe
Fair Fund. The Fair Fund disbursement to investors will be implemented through the United
States Department ofthe Treasury's Financial Management Service, ("FMS"), which will
electronically transfer funds through the Automated Clearing House ("ACH") or mail a check to
each payee. Commission staff will provide the Fund Administrator with appropriate proprietary
software for compiling the information necessary to be submitted to FMS. The Fund
Administrator will compile the information into the specified file format and submit this
electronic file to the assigned Commission staff. The Fund Administrator will validate the
In addition to single large purchases, investors could qualify for breakpoint discounts pursuant to
a "letter of intent," an agreement to make multiple purchases of Class A shares issued by the same fund or
fund complex over a 13-month (or similar) period which, when aggregated, equaled an amount that
qualified for a breakpoint discount. Breakpoints were also available through "rights of accumulation,"
under which an investor, or an eligible group of related investors, could aggregate the value of their
existing holdings to determine the reduced sales charge applicable to subsequent purchases of Class A
shares.
3

payees and amounts in the file to the Commission staff. The validation will state that the
electronic file was compiled in accordance with the Plan and provides all information necessary
for FMS to make disbursement through the ACH or by check. The Fund Administrator will
coordinate with the appropriate Commission staff to ensure the electronic file passes all system
edits for a timely distribution. Upon receipt of a properly validated file, the Commission staff
will obtain authorization from the Commission to disburse pursuant to SEC Rule I I01 (b)(6).
When the electronic file and validation are approved and the order to disburse is entered, the
Commission will transmit the electronic file to FMS for the transfer of funds pursuant to the
following FMS procedures.
Within 48 hours of receipt by FMS, funds will be transferred by the ACH or checks will
be mailed. FMS will notitY the Commission staff, which, in tum, will notitY the Fund
Administrator of any returned items due to non-delivery, insufficient addresses, and/or other
deficiencies. The Fund Administrator is responsible for researching and reconciling all errors
that result in non-delivery and shall submit a supplemental electronic file for payment of the
returned items.
The Fund Administrator also is responsible for accounting for all payments. In the event
that any distribution is in the form of a paper check in lieu of an electronic transfer, each check
will state on its face that it is valid for one year. After one year from the date on the distribution
check, FMS shall notitY the Commission staff, which, in turn, will notitY the Fund Administrator
of all uncashed checks. FMS will credit the SEC account for the Fair Fund for the amount of all
uncashed checks.

9.
Information mailing to accompany payments. All payments shall be preceded by
a communication that includes, as appropriate: (a) a statement characterizing the distribution; (b)
a description of the tax information reporting required of the QSF and related tax consequences;
(c) a statement that checks will be void after one year; and (d) the name of a person to contact, to
be used in the event ofany questions regarding the distribution. Any such information letter or
other communication about this distribution plan shall be submitted to the assigned Commission
staff for review and approval. Distribution checks, on their face, or in the accompanying
mailing, will clearly indicate that the money is being distributed from a Fair Fund established by
the SEC.
10.
Tax Administrator. The Commission has appointed Damasco & Associates as the
Tax Administrator ("Tax Administrator") of the Fair Fund (ReI. No. 34-54838, November 29,
2006). The Fund Administrator and Respondents will cooperate with the Tax Administrator in
providing information necessary to accomplish the income tax compliance, ruling and advice
work assigned to the Tax Administrator by the Commission. The Tax Administrator shall be
compensated by the Fair Fund.
II.
Tax Provisions. The Fund Administrator will ensure that all required information
shall be made available to the Tax Administrator. The Fund Administrator shall use the assets
and earnings of the Fair Fund to provide payments to Eligible Customers and to provide the Tax
Administrator with assets to pay tax liabilities and tax compliance fees and costs.

4

12.
Accountings. Once all funds are disbursed through FMS of the U.S. Treasury, the
Fund Administrator will submit a final accounting for approval by the Commission prior to
termination of the Fair Fund and discharge of the Fund Administrator.
13.
Expenses ofAdministration. Fees and other expenses of administering the Plan
shall be paid first from the interest earned on the funds, and, if the interest is not sufficient, then
from the corpus.
14.
Assistance by Respondents. Royal Alliance and Scarborough will assist the Fund
Administrator by providing requested information necessary for the administration and
implementation ofthe Plan.
15.
Notice ofProposed Plan and Opportunity for Comment. Notice of this Plan shall
be published in the SEC Docket and on the Commission website [http://www.sec.gov]. Any
person or entity wishing to comment on the Plan must do so in writing by submitting their
comments within thirty (30) days of the date of the notice (i) by sending a letter to the Office of
the Secretary, United States Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, N.E.,
Washington, D.C. 20549-1090; (ii) by using the Commission's Internet comment form
(www.sec.gov/litigation/admin.shtml); or (iii) by sending an e-mail to rule,comments@sec.gov.
Comments submitted bye-mail or via the Commission's website should include the
Administrative Proceeding File Number (Admin. Proc. File No. 3-11538) in the subject line.
Comments received will be available to the public. Commenters should only submit information
that they wish to make publicly available.
16.
Order Approving the Proposed Plan and Order ofDisbursement. At the end of
the thirty (30) day notice and plan publication period, the staff of the Commission will seek an
order approving the Plan. The staff will seek an order of disbursement of the disgorgement
funds within thirty (30) days of plan approval.
17.
Amendments and Procedural Deadline Extensions. The Fund Administrator will
inform the Commission staff of any changes in the Plan. If a change is determined to be
material, Commission approval is required prior to implementation by amending the Plan, which
may be done upon the motion of the Fund Administrator, or upon the Commission's own
motion.
18.
Procedures for the Receipt ofAdditional Funds. This Fair Fund has been
deposited at the Bureau of Public Debt for investment in government obligations. Other than
interest from these investments, it is not anticipatedthat the Fair Fund will receive additional
funds.

19.
Disposition ofUndistributed Funds. A residual account within the Fair Fund is
established for any amounts remaining after all assets have been distributed. The residual
account may include funds reserved for future taxes and related expenses, distributions from
checks that have not been cashed, from checks that were not delivered or from funds returned to
the Fund Administrator, tax refunds for overpayment or for waiver of penalties. All

5

undistributed funds in the residual account will be transferred to the U.S. Treasury after the final
accounting is approved by the Commission.

20.
Termination a/the Fair Fund Upon distribution of the funds, the Fund
Administrator shall make arrangement for the final payment of taxes and Tax Administrator fees
and shall submit a final accounting to the Commission. The Fair Fund shall be eligible for
termination after all of the following have occurred: (I) the Final Accounting by the Fund
Administrator has been submitted and approved by the Commission, (2) all taxes and fees have
been paid, and (3) all remaining funds or any residual amounts have been transferred to the U.S.
Treasury. Staff shall seek an order from the Commission to (1) approve the Final Accounting;
(2) approve sending the remaining residual amounts to the United States Treasury after the final
tax payment has been made; and (3) authorize the Secretary of the Commission, upon receipt of
notice from the staff assigned to this matter that all funds have been expended, to terminate the
Fair Fund and discharge the Fund Administrator.
21.
Distribution Timing. The Fund Administrator will use his best efforts to start the
distribution within thirty (30) days of plan approval and to complete the distribution within sixty
(60) days of the distribution start date.

Submitted on February 3, 2009

By:

Assistant Regional Director
Philadelphia Regional Office

6

