UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-11940
______
In the Matter of
HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES, INC.,
THOMAS E. HOAGLIN,
MICHAEL J. MCMENNAMIN, and
JOHN VAN FLEET, CPA
Respondents.

:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:

DISTRIBUTION PLAN

On June 2, 2005, the Commission entered an Order Instituting Public Administrative and
Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities
Act”) and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule
102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, Imposing a Cease-and-Desist
Order, Imposing Remedial Sanctions, and Other Relief (“Order”) with respect to Huntington
Bancshares, Inc. (“Huntington”), Thomas E. Hoaglin, Michael J. McMennamin, and John Van Fleet
(collectively, “Respondents”). Simultaneously with the entry of the Order, the Commission
accepted settlement offers from Respondents in which they consented to the entry of the Order
without admitting or denying the Order’s findings. In the Order, the Commission found that
Huntington violated Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act and Sections 13(a) and
13(b)(2)(A) and (B) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-1 thereunder; with respect
to fiscal year 2002, Hoaglin, as Chief Executive Officer, caused Huntington’s violations of
Section 17(a)(2) of the Securities Act and Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) and (B) of the

Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-1 thereunder and directly violated Exchange Act Rule
13a-14; McMennamin and Van Fleet violated Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities
Act, Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder, and caused Huntington’s
violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) and (B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and
13a-1 thereunder; and McMennamin directly violated Exchange Act Rule 13a-14. As a remedial
sanction, the Commission ordered Huntington, Hoaglin, McMennamin, and Van Fleet to pay
disgorgement and prejudgment interest in the amounts of $1, $517,609.29, $265,215, and
$26,660, respectively.
On June 2, 2005, the Commission also filed a civil complaint (the “Complaint”) against
Respondents in the United States District Court for the District of Ohio (the “Court”) alleging
those violations found in the Order. Simultaneously with the filing of the Complaint, without
admitting or denying its allegations, Huntington, Hoaglin, McMennamin, and Van Fleet
consented to the entry of final Judgments against them wherein the District Court ordered them
to pay civil money penalties of $7,500,000, $150,000, $150,000, and $25,000, respectively.
All of the above-referenced monies were ordered paid to the Commission’s Office of
Financial Management. All amounts have been paid and are being held by the United States
Treasury in a Fair Fund pursuant to Section 308 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
On August 5, 2005, the Division of Enforcement (“Division”) requested and received an
extension of time until September 8, 2005 to file a Plan of Disgorgement. On November 8,
2005, the Division submitted a motion requesting an additional extension of time until December
16, 2005 to file a Proposed Plan of Disgorgement, which was also granted. Accordingly, the
Division now submits the following Distribution Plan pursuant to Rule 1101 of the
Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans, 17 C.F.R. §201.1101. The

2

Distribution Plan generally provides for distribution of the monies paid by Respondents to
individuals and entities who purchased shares of Huntington common stock from January 18,
2002 through 4 p.m. eastern standard time on June 26, 2003 and who sold any portion of those
shares between 4 p.m. eastern standard time on June 26, 2003 and 4 p.m. eastern standard time
on July 3, 2003.
DEFINITIONS
1.

“Claimants” shall mean those individuals and entities who purchased shares of

Huntington common stock from January 18, 2002 through 4 p.m. eastern standard time on June
26, 2003, and who sold any portion of those shares between 4 p.m. eastern standard time on June
26, 2003 and 4 p.m. eastern standard time on July 3, 2003, or their lawful successors, except for
Respondents.
2.

“Distribution Fund” shall mean the $809,485.29 in disgorgement and

prejudgment interest and $7,825,000 in penalties paid by Respondents.
3.

“Distributions” shall mean the payments made to Claimants as approved by the

Commission.
ALLOCATION OF THE DISTRIBUTION FUND
4.

A Claimant’s Distribution shall be the Claimant’s pro rata share of the amount

remaining in the Distribution Fund after payment of the Fund Administrator’s reasonable fees
and reimbursement of the Fund Administrator’s reasonable costs and expenses, and after
payment of the Tax Administrator’s fees and reimbursable costs, as approved in Commission
Order dated December 5, 2005. A Claimant’s pro rata share will be computed by calculating the
number of shares of Huntington common stock sold by the Claimant between 4 p.m. eastern

3

standard time on June 26, 2003 and 4 p.m. eastern standard time on July 3, 2003 as a percentage
of the total number of shares sold by Claimants during that time period.
5.

After the payment of all Distributions and after payment of the Fund

Administrator’s and Tax Administrator’s reasonable fees and reimbursement of the Fund
Administrator’s and Tax Administrator’s reasonable costs and expenses, any remaining money in
the Distribution Fund, including any amounts returned to the Commission, shall be forfeited to
the United States Treasury. After the payment of all Distributions, any remaining money in the
Distribution Fund, including any amounts returned to the Commission or any outstanding checks
that have not been presented for payment within six (6) months of the date of the check, shall be
paid over to the United States Treasury.
APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES OF FUND ADMINISTRATOR
6.

The Division proposes that Nancy R. Grunberg of the law firm Venable LLP be

appointed as Administrator of the Distribution Plan (“Fund Administrator”). The Fund
Administrator shall be entitled to reasonable fees in accordance with the proposal attached as
Exhibit 1 and shall be entitled to reimbursement for reasonable costs and expenses. Unless
otherwise ordered, fees and other expenses of administering the Distribution Plan shall be paid
first from the interest earned on the Distribution Fund, and if the interest is not sufficient, then
from the corpus. In accordance with Rule 1105(d) of the Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund and
Disgorgement Plans, 17 C.F.R. §1105(d), the Fund Administrator shall file a quarterly
application for payment of reasonable fees and for reimbursement of reasonable costs and
expenses for completed services with the Commission. Upon the issuance of an order approving
such an application, the Fund Administrator shall forward such order to the Commission’s Office
of Financial Management for payment from the Distribution Fund.

4

7.

The Division proposes that the bond requirement of Rule 1105(c) of the

Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans be waived for good cause shown,
specifically, as further described below, because the Fund Administrator shall never have
custody or control of the Distribution Fund as the Distribution Funds are, and will remain, on
deposit with the United States Treasury.
8.

The Fund Administrator shall, as provided below, take reasonable and appropriate

steps to distribute the Fund according to the following claims procedure. Where the Fund
Administrator deems necessary, after consultation with the Commission Staff, the Fund
Administrator may modify this procedure to effectuate the general purposes of this Plan. The
Fund Administrator shall carry out the duties specified by this Distribution Plan, including the
following:
a.

use reasonable efforts to identify and locate Claimants and to obtain

Claimants’ tax identification numbers or Social Security numbers;
b.

provide notice to Claimants of the existence of the Distribution Fund and

their potential eligibility to receive proceeds of the fund;
c.

verify Claimants’ claims;

d.

establish procedures for making and approving claims and handling

disputed claims;
e.

set a cut-off date for the making of claims;

f.

calculate Claimants’ pro rata shares of the Distribution Fund;

g.

within 180 days after approval of this Distribution Plan, seek an order of

the Commission authorizing payments of the Distribution Fund as provided in Paragraph 4;

5

h.

within 90 days after approval of this Distribution Plan, seek to amend the

Distribution Plan to specify the procedures to be used to:
i.

identify and locate Claimants;

ii.

provide notice to Claimants;

iii.

verify Claimants’ claims;

iv.

make and approve claims and handle disputed claims;

v.

set a cut-off date for the making of claims;

vi.

calculate Claimants’ pro rata shares; and

vii.

determine whether a claimant’s pro rata share should be offset in
whole or in part by any sale of shares prior to 4 p.m. eastern
standard time on June 26, 2003.

k.
9.

submit the reports specified herein.

Upon the issuance of an order by the Commission approving payments of the

Distribution Fund, the Fund Administrator shall forward to the Commission’s Office of Financial
Management within 30 days the necessary information, including, but not limited to, Claimant’s
names, addresses, Social Security numbers, and taxpayer identification numbers, for the mailing
of the Distributions. The Commission’s Office of Financial Management will be responsible for
issuing and sending distribution checks to Claimants.
10.

Within the first ten days of the end of each calendar quarter, the Fund

Administrator shall report to the Commission on the status of the distribution, including an
accounting of all monies earned or received and all monies spent in connection with the
administration of the Distribution Plan.

6

11.

When the Fund Administrator concludes that it is appropriate to terminate the

Distribution Fund, the Fund Administrator shall be required to provide a final report to the
Commission that sets forth the distributions made from the Distribution Fund, identifies any
Claimants not located, describes the efforts made to locate such Claimants and describes the
Fund Administrator’s performance of any other duties. At that time, the Fund Administrator
shall submit a final accounting to the Commission for the Commission’s approval and seek an
order from the Commission terminating the Distribution Fund and discharging the Fund
Administrator.
12.

Other than the reports specified herein, the Fund Administrator shall not be

required to report or account to the Commission.
13.

After the Commission orders termination of the Distribution Fund and the

discharge of the Fund Administrator, the Fund Administrator will then inform the Commission’s
Office of Financial Management that all money remaining in the Distribution Fund is to be
transferred to the United States Treasury.

7

