UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
FILE NO. 3-12115
________________________
:
:
In the Matter of
American Express
Financial Advisors Inc.
(now known as Ameriprise
Financial Services, Inc.),

:
:
:
:
:
:
Respondent.
:
________________________:

CORRECTED PROPOSED FAIR FUND
DISTRIBUTION PLAN

Now comes Respondent American Express Financial Advisors Inc., now known
as Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. (“Ameriprise”) and pursuant to 17 C.F.R.
201.1100, et seq., herewith submits to the Securities and Exchange Commission
(“Commission” or “SEC”) and its Independent Distribution Consultant (“IDC”),
Ameriprise’s FAIR Fund Distribution Plan.
OVERVIEW
This matter concerns the distribution of $30 million paid by Ameriprise pursuant
to a December 1, 2005 order entered against it by the Commission, by consent and
without admitting or denying the facts alleged in the order, concerning Ameriprise’s
practices related to the receipt and disclosure of revenue sharing payments received in
connection with sales of mutual fund shares and interests in 529 college savings plans
(“529”) by certain mutual fund families designated by Ameriprise as preferred.
Ameriprise has submitted a plan to distribute the $30 million, which is set forth below
(“Distribution Plan”). The Distribution Plan is subject to the notice and comment

procedure set forth in paragraph 19, and review and approval by the Commission and an
Independent Distribution Consultant (“IDC”) appointed pursuant to the Commission’s
December 1, 2005 order.
FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
1. Ameriprise is a Delaware Corporation that has been registered with the
Commission as a broker-dealer pursuant to Section 15 of the Exchange Act since 1971.
It is also a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers (“NASD”).
Ameriprise’s headquarters is located in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Ameriprise has more
than 10,000 registered representatives whom it calls “financial advisors” and more than
3,750 branch offices across the United States.
2. Ameriprise consented to the entry of an Order Instituting Administrative and
Cease-and-Desist Proceedings (“Order”),1 without admitting or denying the findings
therein. According to the Order, the Commission found that between January 2001 and
August 2004, Ameriprise did not adequately disclose material information concerning its
conflicts of interest in offering and selling shares of twenty-seven preferred mutual fund
families whose affiliates made revenue sharing payments to Ameriprise in exchange for,
among other things, inclusion on Ameriprise’s brokerage platform. From October 2003
to December 2005, Ameriprise also failed to adequately disclose certain material facts
about its conflicts of interest in the offer and sale of interests in nine 529 plans
concerning revenue sharing payments made to Ameriprise by affiliates of the nine fund
families that administered the 529 plans.

1

Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing
Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933,
and Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Securities Act Release No. 8637 dated
December 1, 2005.

2

3. The Order requires, among other things, the appointment of an IDC to verify
and report on the payment by Ameriprise of $30 million into a FAIR Fund established
pursuant to Section 308a of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The FAIR Fund is to be distributed
for the benefit of Ameriprise’s customers who purchased shares in Preferred Provider and
Select Group program family funds from January 1, 2001 through August 31, 2004. This
FAIR Fund will be administered by the IDC as described more fully below.
4. Ameriprise proposed, and the Commission did not object to, the appointment of
Mr. Nelson S. Kibler as the IDC (Mr. Kibler is herein referred to as the “IDC”). Mr.
Kibler is both a Certified Public Accountant and an Attorney with extensive experience
in advising on securities regulation issues. He is a retired partner of Deloitte & Touche
and has previously held several positions at the SEC. It also is proposed that Mr. Kibler
act as the Fund Administrator of the Fair Fund. Ameriprise has agreed to pay all costs
associated with the engagement of the IDC, the administration of the FAIR Fund
Distribution Plan and the distribution of the FAIR Fund.
5. Ameriprise paid to the Commission the $30 million called for under the Order.
The FAIR Fund is currently deposited at the U.S. Treasury Bureau of Public Debt
(“Treasury”) for investment in government obligations. Other than interest from these
investments, it is not anticipated that the FAIR Fund will receive additional funds.
DISTRIBUTION PLAN AND PROCEDURES
6. There are a number of features and considerations to this FAIR Fund that
influenced the development of the Distribution Plan, including the following:
(a) there is an overriding goal of distributing as much of the FAIR Fund as
possible to customers on a basis that all customers can participate on an equal basis
3

subject only to the factors set forth in this Distribution Plan. With that in mind, the
Distribution Plan does not impose upon customers the need and burden to go through a
claim process. Rather, due diligence has shown that Ameriprise reasonably believes that
it can identify customers qualifying for a payment.
(b) The majority of the customers who are entitled to a distribution from the FAIR
Fund are current and active customers of Ameriprise. This creates the opportunity to
make the distribution through the already existing electronic system for crediting active
customer accounts which in turn greatly reduces the transactional issues of relying upon
mail service to make the distribution. Under the supervision of the IDC, the distributed
funds will be deposited into the current customers’ brokerage accounts at Ameriprise.
Ameriprise will not receive any fees for managing these funds prior to customer direction
regarding the investment of the funds. For former or inactive customers, Ameriprise will
issue checks and will utilize the mail and returned mail procedures that are set forth in
paragraph 12.
(c) The distribution methodology treats the “benefit” at issue in the Order, as the
benefit Ameriprise received from its customers purchasing Preferred Provider and Select
Group family fund shares from January 1, 2001 through August 31, 2004 (“the Relevant
Period”).
(d) This FAIR Fund is not being distributed according to a claims-made process,
so the procedures for providing notice and for making and approving such claims are not
applicable.
(e) Because a customer can have multiple accounts and because the owners of
record for each of the accounts can be different (such as, joint accounts, qualified
4

accounts, trust accounts, etc.), Ameriprise, under the supervision of the IDC, will ensure
that settlement distributions are addressed to the correct account owners. The
calculations associated with this effort are described starting at paragraph 8 below.
7. The terms used herein are defined as follow:
(a) a “Purchase” means an acquisition or exchange of shares outside of a dividend
investment program. For the purchase to qualify, it must also have occurred where
Ameriprise was the broker/dealer, and therefore Fund Family shares acquired elsewhere
and transferred into Ameriprise do not qualify as “purchased.”
(b) An “Eligible Customer” is one who purchased mutual fund shares or 529’s
during the Relevant Period from a Preferred Provider and/or Select Group fund family, as
identified in the Order. A person or entity shall not be an Eligible Customer if such
person or entity is: (i) a customer that was banned due to market timing; (ii) any person
who was an officer of Ameriprise between January 1, 2001 and December 1, 2005; (iii) a
wholly owned affiliate of Ameriprise in which customers have no beneficial interest; or
(iv) has been identified by the Commission as having submitted fabricated claims in other
Commission matters on a list to be submitted by the Commission to Ameriprise upon
approval of this Distribution Plan.
(c) An “Eligible Account” is an account that is owned by the Eligible Customer.
One customer can have multiple accounts.
(d) “Revenue Share Fund” is defined as a Preferred Provider or Select Group
family fund where the fund family paid revenue sharing to Ameriprise during the
Relevant Period. The following fund families participated in the Preferred Provider
and/or Select Group programs:
5

Revenue Sharing Fund Families
•

AIM FAMILY OF FUNDS

•

DAVIS FUNDS

•

NUVEEN MUTUAL FUNDS

•

ALLIANCEBERNSTEIN INV

•

DREYFUS PREMIER FUNDS

•

OPPENHEIMER FUNDS

•

AMERICAN CENTURY INVEST

•

DREYFUS FOUNDERS

•

OPPENHEIMER FUNDS 529

•

AMERICAN CENTURY 529

•

DREYFUS GROUP

•

OPPENHEIMER LEGACY
FUNDS

•

CALVERT GROUP

•

EATON VANCE GROUP

•

PHOENIX FUNDS

•

STEIN ROE

•

EVERGREEN FUNDS

•

PIMCO FUNDS

•

NEWPORT PACIFIC

•

FEDERATED FUNDS

•

PIONEER FUNDS

•

CRABBE HUSON

•

FIDELITY

•

PUTNAM FUNDS

•

COLONIAL

•

FIDELITY ADVISOR FUNDS

•

SALOMON BROTHERS
GROUP

•

LIBERTY COLONIAL

•

FRANKLIN GROUP OF FUNDS

•

SELECTED FUNDS

•

LIBERTY FUNDS GROUP

•

GOLDMAN SACHS ASSET MGMT

•

STRONG FUNDS

•

GALAXY FUNDS

•

INVESCO

•

VAN KAMPEN FUNDS

•

COLUMBIA FUNDS GROUP

•

JANUS

•

WELLS FARGO ADVANTAGE

•

COLUMBIA FUNDS 529

•

JANUS ADVISER FUNDS

•

WELLS FARGO FUNDS

•

CREDIT SUISSE ASSET MGMT

•

MFS FAMILY OF FUNDS

(e) “Order” means the Order entered on December 1, 2005.
(f) “FAIR Fund” means the $30 million FAIR Fund principal paid by Ameriprise
pursuant to the Order plus any accrued interest.
(g) “Retirement Accounts” are accounts (other than salary reduction-only 403(b)
accounts) of any omnibus “employee benefit plan,” as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA,
which is not (1) an Individual Retirement Account, including a traditional IRA, a Roth
IRA, a SEP IRA, a SARSEP IRA, or a SIMPLE IRA, or (2) a Section 403(b)(7) custodial
account under a program not established or maintained by an employer, whether or not
the employee benefit plan is subject to Title 1 of ERISA.
(h) “Active” customer account means a current customer of Ameriprise who has
assets currently in an eligible account. An “inactive” customer account is an account that
(i) does not currently have assets in an eligible account, or (ii) holds shares at a fund
family associated with a Revenue Share Fund and not at Ameriprise.
6

(i) “Purchase Dollars” are the total Purchases for an Eligible Customer.
(j) “Total Purchase Dollars” is the sum of all Purchase Dollars.
(k) “Minimum Payment Equivalent” is the number of Purchase Dollars required
to achieve the Minimum Distribution Amount.
(l) “Minimum Distribution Amount” is $25.00, the smallest amount any Eligible
Customer will receive.
(m) “Minimum Payment Pool” holds the first $25 for all Eligible Customers. All
Eligible Customers have at least $25 in the Minimum Payment Pool, even if their
Purchase Dollars are less than or equal to the Minimum Payment Equivalent.
(n) “Minimum Payment Fund” will be the total of all allocations in the Minimum
Payment Pool.
(o) “Purchase Dollar Pool” holds Purchase Dollars that are not used in the
Minimum Payment Pool.
(p) “Purchase Dollar Pool Total” will be the total of all Purchase Dollars in the
Purchase Dollar Pool.
(q) “Purchase Dollar Fund” will be the total settlement dollars used to calculate
allocations from the Purchase Dollar Pool.
8. Method of Calculation for Each Eligible Customer’s Share of the FAIR Fund.
(a) The calculations described herein will be based on Ameriprise’s records and
calculated by Ameriprise in accordance with the procedures outlined in this Distribution
Plan. The IDC will review and approve the calculations. In doing so, and in performing
other tasks required of the IDC under this Plan, the IDC shall have the full cooperation
and assistance of Ameriprise personnel, including Ameriprise’s corporate audit function.
7

The IDC will develop, with the cooperation of Ameriprise personnel, agreed-upon review
procedures and tests to assure compliance with the obligations of this Plan. Such agreedupon review procedures and tests may be implemented by Ameriprise personnel under
the supervision of the IDC. The IDC will conduct an independent review and appropriate
tests of any review and test procedures undertaken by Ameriprise personnel. Any
agreed-upon procedures shall be at the sole discretion of the IDC. The methods of
calculation of each Eligible Customer’s share of the FAIR Fund are intended by the
Commission to result in a payment to each Eligible Customer that restores the impaired
value of the Eligible Customer’s investment in a Revenue Share Fund. Some of this
impaired value is subject to calculation, while some of this impaired value is not. The
methods of calculation are intended to fairly estimate the impaired value that each
Eligible Customer has suffered and make a payment to such customer in that amount.
(b) The calculations in this section will show how to:
(i) Calculate the total amount a customer will receive; and
(ii) Calculate how the customer’s allocation will be made amongst the
customer’s various accounts.
(c) The first step needed for determining each customer’s allocation is to
determine the size of the Minimum Payment Equivalent. The formula is: Minimum
Payment Equivalent equals Minimum Distribution Amount divided by (FAIR Fund
amount divided by Total Purchase Dollars). For example, if the FAIR Fund amount is
$30,000,000 and the Total Purchase Dollars are $6,000,000,000 then the Minimum
Payment Equivalent is $25 divided by .005 ($30,000,000 divided by $6,000,000,000),
which equals $5000.
8

(d) The second step is to determine if a customer will receive less than the
Minimum Distribution Amount. This is done by comparing the Minimum Payment
Equivalent to each customer’s Purchase Dollars. If the customer’s Purchase Dollars is
less than or equal to the Minimum Payment Equivalent, the customer will be grossed-up
to the Minimum Distribution Amount and assigned to the Minimum Payment Pool. For
example, if Customer X had $3000 in Purchase Dollars and the Minimum Payment
Equivalent equals $5000, and since $3000 is less than $5000, then the customer will be
allocated $25.00 in the Minimum Payment Pool.
(e) The third step is to determine if a customer will receive more than the
Minimum Distribution Amount. This is done by comparing the Minimum Payment
Equivalent to each customer’s Purchase Dollars. If the customer’s Purchase Dollars is
greater than the Minimum Payment Equivalent, an amount equal to Purchase dollars
minus the Minimum Payment Equivalent will be allocated to the Purchase Dollar Pool.
Additionally, since the Minimum Payment Equivalent was subtracted from the
customer’s Purchase Dollar Pool allocation, $25 will be allocated to the Minimum
Payment Pool for this customer. For example, if Customer X had $15,000 in Purchase
Dollars and the Minimum Payment Equivalent equals $5000, then the customer will have
$10,000 added to the Purchase Dollar Pool and $25 allocated to the Minimum Payment
Pool.
(f) The fourth step will be to calculate the Minimum Payment Fund size. This is
done by totaling all allocations from the Minimum Payment Pool.
(g) The fifth step will be to calculate the Purchase Dollar Pool Total. This is done
by totaling all Purchase Dollars in the Purchase Dollar Pool.
9

(h) The sixth step is to calculate the Purchase Dollar Fund size. This is done by
subtracting the Minimum Payment Fund from the FAIR Fund amount. For example, if
the Minimum Payment Fund equals $10,000,000, then the Purchase Dollar Fund contains
$20,000,000 ($30,000,000 minus $10,000,000 equals $20,000,000).
(i) The seventh step is to calculate the allocation for customers in the Purchase
Dollar Pool. This is a pro-rata formula based on the percentage of dollars each customer
has to the Purchase Dollar Pool Total. This formula is as follows: allocation equals
purchase dollar pool dollars divided by Purchase Dollar Pool Total times Purchase Dollar
Fund. For example, if Customer Y has $10,000 in the Purchase Dollar Pool, Purchase
Dollar Pool Total is $4,000,000,000, and Purchase Dollar Fund is $20,000,000 then the
Purchase Dollar Pool allocation for Customer Y equals 10,000 divided by
$4,000,000,000 times $20,000,000 equals $50.00.
(j) The customer’s allocation is the total of their allocation in the Minimum
Payment Pool and the allocation calculated in step (i), if any.
(k) The allocation as stated in (j) is then allocated to the customer’s accounts.
This allocation is a pro-rata allocation based on the purchase dollars in each of the
customer’s accounts to the customer’s Purchase Dollars. For example, if Customer Y has
three (3) accounts that total $10,000 in Purchase Dollars and their allocation is $50:
Account 1 with $3000 in Purchases will be allocated $15.00 ($3,000
divided by $10,000 multiplied by $50)
Account 2 with $3000 in Purchases will be allocated $15.00
Account 3 with $4000 in Purchases will be allocated $20.00

10

9. The Method of Distribution To Each Eligible Customer of Their Share of the
FAIR Fund.
(a) If an Eligible Customer has a current and active account with Ameriprise, that
Eligible Customer shall generally, via electronic transfer, receive a credit to their account.
For any Eligible Customer who does not receive an electronic credit, then Ameriprise
shall send payment to such customer.
(b) If an Eligible Customer no longer has an account with Ameriprise or the
account is inactive, then Ameriprise shall send the payment and a disclosure statement to
the Eligible Customer’s last known address as determined using the procedures described
in paragraph 12, infra.
(c) All payments shall be preceded or accompanied by a communication that
includes, as appropriate: (a) a statement characterizing the distribution; (b) a description
of the tax information reporting and other related tax matters; (c) a statement that checks
will be void after 90 days; and (d) the name of a person to contact, to be used in the event
of any questions regarding the distribution. Any such information letter or other mailing
to recipients characterizing their distributions shall be submitted to the assigned
Commission staff for review and approval. Distribution checks and account credits, on
their face or in the accompanying mailing, will clearly indicate that the money is being
distributed from a FAIR Fund established by the SEC.
10. Retirement Accounts.
Retirement Accounts are held in trust by a trustee, and the trust is the legal owner
of the shares. Under this Distribution Plan, plan fiduciaries and intermediaries (as those
terms are discussed in the Field Assistance Bulletin No. 2006-01) require that Retirement
11

Accounts distribute the monies received in accordance with their legal, fiduciary, and
contractual obligations and consistent with guidance issued by the Department of Labor,
including but not limited to, Department of Labor Field Assistance Bulletin No. 2006-01,
April 19, 2006.
An intermediary to one or more Retirement Accounts may allocate the
distribution it receives pursuant to the Distribution Plan to or among eligible Retirement
Accounts participating in an omnibus account administered by such intermediary
according to the procedures set forth in paragraph 8 above or according to the average
share or dollar balances of the Retirement Account during the Relevant Period, provided,
however, that for the purposes of such allocation each Retirement Account itself (and not
the individual plan participant) shall be treated as beneficial owner.
The fiduciary of a Retirement Account receiving such a distribution should
distribute it pursuant to one of the following alternatives (which are not necessarily the
only methods available for plan fiduciaries to follow in allocating amounts received by or
on behalf of Retirement Accounts pursuant to this Distribution Plan):
(a) Plan fiduciaries may allocate the distribution amount pro rata (based on total
account balance) among the account of all persons who are currently participants in the
Retirement Plan (whether or not they are currently employees).
(b) Plan fiduciaries may allocate the distribution amount per capita among the
accounts of all persons who are currently participants in the Retirement Account (whether
or not they are currently employees).

12

(c) To the extent that none of these preceding alternatives is administratively
feasible, plan fiduciaries may, to the extent permitted by the Retirement Account, use the
distribution amount to pay the reasonable expenses of administering the plan.
11. De Minimus Amounts.
A De Minimus procedure and calculation will not be needed to calculate a
customer’s total payment because Ameriprise will be sending a minimum distribution of
$25 to all Eligible Customers. However, as set forth in paragraph 8 above, because
distributions to Eligible Customers with multiple accounts are split among those
accounts, Eligible Customers with multiple accounts would receive several checks or
distributions in amounts smaller than $25. For Eligible Customers with multiple accounts
Ameriprise can not aggregate amounts due to each account.
12. Mail and Returned Mail Procedures.
(a) The overall goal for the distribution process is to minimize the amount of
funds that are not distributed to customers eligible for a distribution. Priority will be
given to electronic distribution of monies to an existing, active Ameriprise account.
Next, for those customers holding their shares at a fund family associated with a Revenue
Share Fund, and not at Ameriprise, such customers shall receive a physical check based
on the Ameriprise name and address system. For the remaining population, a physical
check will be mailed to the last known address of the customer after checking for a more
recent address using LexisNexis or a comparable service. All physical checks shall bear a
stale date of ninety (90) days from the date of issue. Checks that are not negotiated within
the stale date shall be voided and U.S. Bank shall be instructed to not issue payment on

13

those checks. Electronic credits will be made only to cash equivalent accounts (e.g.
money market accounts).
(b) If any physical checks are returned as “undeliverable,” a database search will
be conducted for those customers through First Data Company’s “Fast Data” service or a
comparable service such as LexisNexis within fourteen (14) business days after receipt of
each returned check and new physical checks shall be re-mailed to the additional
addresses obtained. If any new physical check is not cashed by the stale date, that check
shall be void and the issuing financial institution shall be instructed to delete the checks
from the register.
(c) If after ninety (90) days after the initial date funds from the FAIR Fund are
first distributed (“date of distribution”), any funds remain in the FAIR Fund, Ameriprise
and/or the IDC shall make reasonable efforts to contact any Eligible Customers who have
failed to cash any checks over $50 (other than physical checks returned as “undelivered”)
and take appropriate action to reissue any such checks as needed. If, after 180 days after
the date of distribution, any checks remain uncashed (other than physical checks returned
as “undelivered”), Ameriprise shall distribute the remaining funds as set forth in
paragraph 15.
13. Dispute Procedure.
The dispute procedure under 17 C.F.R. 201.1101 (b)(4) shall generally follow the
Ameriprise current customer complaint process. Accordingly, all disputes, in order to be
acted upon, must be submitted in writing, with all supporting documentation for the
dispute, to Amy Lake, Rust Consulting, Inc., 201 South Lyndale Avenue, Faribault, MN
55021. Ms. Lake or her staff, will investigate any dispute and issue a preliminary
14

recommendation as to the resolution of the dispute. The preliminary recommendation and
supporting documentation will be forwarded to the IDC for review and final disposition.
A record shall be maintained of all such disputes and the resolution thereof. The
determination by the IDC shall be final as to the dispute. The disclosure statement
accompanying the distributions shall identify a person Eligible Customers may contact in
the event of any questions. All disputes shall be submitted within thirty (30) days of the
payment to Eligible Customers provided for in paragraph 9 of this Distribution Plan. A
preliminary recommendation for resolving the dispute shall be made within thirty (30)
days of receipt of the dispute. Final resolution of the dispute shall be made within thirty
(30) days thereafter. Any disputes determined meritorious by the IDC shall first be paid
from a $100,000 reserve set aside from the FAIR Fund for such purpose. Any amounts
left over in that reserve not used to pay disputes shall be remitted by the Commission to
the Treasury or to such other person or entity as the Commission may direct.
14. Support Services.
Ameriprise will provide customer support and communications programs which
will become active at least by the time the first distribution occurs. These services will
include a toll free number and a website to the public. The Commission retains the right
to review and approve any material posted on the website.
15. Fund Expiration.
The distribution date will be no later than one hundred and eighty (180) days from
final approval of the Plan by the Commission. Upon distribution, the IDC shall make
arrangements for the final payment of taxes and shall submit a final accounting to the
Commission. Prior to termination of the FAIR Fund, Ameriprise shall cooperate with the
15

Tax Administrator to make adequate reserves for tax liability and for costs of tax
compliance. All undistributed assets remaining in the FAIR Fund minus any reserves for
disputes, tax liability and tax compliance costs, shall be remitted by the Commission to
the Treasury or to such other person or entity as the Commission may direct. The FAIR
Fund shall be eligible for termination after all of the following have occurred: (1) the
final accounting by the IDC has been submitted and approved by the Commission; (2) all
taxes have been paid; (3) all remaining funds or any residual have been transferred to the
U.S. Treasury. The Commission’s staff shall seek an order from the Commission to: (1)
approve the final accounting; (2) approve sending the remaining residual amount to the
United States Treasury after the final tax payment has been made; and (3) authorize the
Secretary of the Commission, after receiving notice from the staff that all funds have
been expended, to discharge the IDC.
16. Fund Administration.
(a) Ameriprise has obtained fidelity bonds in the amount of $100 million. The
primary insurer, Lloyds of London, is a company which, as of its most recent renewal,
was rated A XV by A.M. Best. The fidelity bonds’ total coverage is in the amount of
$100,000,000 per occurrence and $100,000,000 aggregate, and provide protection against
employee dishonesty, forgery or fraudulent alteration of securities, and electronic and
computer crime exposures, which include losses due to transfer, payment or delivery of
funds as a result of fraudulent input, preparation or modification of computer instructions,
data or fraudulent electronic transmissions or communications. Ameriprise will maintain
the bond until termination of the Fund. Ameriprise is currently, and will continue to be
until termination of the Fund, self insured to cover losses in an amount in excess of the
16

value of the FAIR Fund against any errors and omissions committed by employees of
Ameriprise in the course of their performance of professional services. Under the Plan, at
no time will there be funds under the custody and control of Ameriprise that exceed the
amount covered by the bond. These policies have been provided to the Commission’s
staff for review and have been deemed “not unacceptable.” At the appropriate time, the
FAIR Fund will be transferred from the Treasury directly to an account at a bank which
carries liability insurance in excess of the amount of the FAIR Fund, as more fully
described in paragraph 17.
(b) The Commission has appointed Damasco & Associates as the Tax
Administrator of the FAIR Fund (“Tax Administrator”).2 The IDC and Ameriprise shall
cooperate with the Tax Administrator in providing information necessary to accomplish
the income tax compliance, ruling and advice work assigned to the Tax Administrator by
the Commission. The Tax Administrator shall be compensated by Ameriprise.
(c) For non-IRA retirement accounts, other than salary reduction-only 403(b)
accounts (“NRAs”):
(i) upon completion of the final calculation of the amount to be distributed
to each eligible accountholder and associated validations, the IDC will use best
efforts to identify and mail notice to each NRA accountholder entitled to a
distribution of $1,000 or more of its distribution amount. Such notice will be sent
via the United States Postal Service to the eligible accountholder’ last known
address of record;

2

Order Directing Appointment of Tax Administrator, Securities Act Release No. 8638 dated December 1,
2005.

17

(ii) The record holder shall distribute the funds in accordance with its
fiduciary, contractual, and/or legal obligations, and consistent with guidance
issued by the Department of Labor, if any. Subject to the foregoing: a service
provider (other than a plan sponsor) may allocate the proceeds it receives pursuant
to the Plan among the non-IRA retirement plans (“NRPs”) according to average
share or dollar balance of the NRPs’ investments in the Preferred Provider or
Select Group Funds during the relevant period; and proceeds attributable to a
particular NRP may (1) be allocated to current participants pro rata based upon
their current total balance in the affected NRP, or (2) to the extent permitted by
the NRP, be used to pay reasonable expenses of administering the NRP.
(d) In order to distribute funds, the IDC will submit a validated list of payees and
the payment amounts to the assigned Commission staff, who will obtain authorization
from the Commission to disburse pursuant to Rule 1101(b)(6). The payees and amounts
will be validated at the IDC’s direction by Rust Consulting, Inc. The validation will state
that the list was compiled in accordance with the Plan and provides all information
necessary to make disbursement to each distributee. Unless otherwise directed by the
Commission, the Commission staff will obtain an Order Directing Disbursement from the
Secretary of the Commission that releases funds to the bank account established by the
IDC based upon the validated list and representation by the IDC that the checks/wires
will be issued consistent with the requirements in paragraph 17. Once the FAIR Fund has
been transferred to the bank, the IDC will file an accounting during the first ten days of
each calendar quarter. A final accounting and report of the implementation of the

18

Distribution Plan will be prepared by the IDC and shall be submitted to the Commission
for approval prior to termination of the FAIR Fund and discharge of the IDC.
17. FAIR Fund Depository.
The FAIR Fund constitutes a Qualified Settlement Fund (“QSF”) under Section
468B(g) of the Internal Revenue Code, 28 U.S.C. § 468B(g), and related regulations, 26
C.F.R. §§ 1.468B-1 through 1.468B-5.
The assets of the FAIR Fund are subject to the continuing jurisdiction and control
of the Commission. Upon approval of the Plan, the IDC shall establish an account at
U.S. Bank, in the name of and bearing the Tax Identification Number of the QSF. U.S.
Bank has $150 million fidelity bond coverage provided by an insurance company Rated
A+ by A.M. Best. U.S. Bank maintains a Financial Institutions (FI) Bond including
errors and omissions coverage with an aggregate limit of $150 million. The primary
insurer is rated A+ by A.M. Best. U.S. Bank annually assesses the adequacy of its policy
limits through extensive analysis of historical loss data, exposure to loss and internal
company controls. U.S. Bank’s bond limits are reviewed annually by its Board of
Directors.
Following approval of the Plan, and submission by the IDC of a list of payees and
amounts and all information necessary to make disbursement to each distributee to the
Commission staff, and unless otherwise directed by the Commission, the Commission
staff will obtain an Order Directing Disbursement from the Secretary of the Commission
that releases the balance in the FAIR Fund to be deposited in the account established by
the IDC in the name of and bearing the Taxpayer Identification Number of the Qualified
Settlement Fund (“QSF account”). The IDC shall be the signer on the QSF account,
19

subject to the continuing jurisdiction and control of the Commission. The IDC shall
authorize U.S. Bank to provide account information to the Tax Administrator. The IDC
shall use the assets and earnings of the FAIR Fund to provide payments to Eligible
Customers and to provide the Tax Administrator with assets to pay tax liabilities and tax
compliance fees and costs. The QSF account shall be invested, at the direction of the
IDC, in short-term U.S. Treasury securities all backed by the full faith and credit of the
U.S. Government of a type and term necessary to meet the cash requirements of the
payments to Eligible Customers, tax obligations and fees; provided however, that
investments in the U.S. Treasury securities will not be made through repurchase
agreements or other derivative products.
All electronic distributions from the U.S. Bank QSF account to Eligible
Customers shall be made no more than ten (10) business days after the funds are
transferred into the U.S. Bank QSF account.
All mail distributions from the U.S. Bank QSF account to Eligible Customers
shall be made no more than twenty (20) business days after the funds are transferred into
the U.S. Bank QSF account. The U.S. Bank QSF account shall be utilized solely and
exclusively for the distribution of the FAIR Fund pursuant to the Distribution Plan. At no
time shall any portion of the assets of the FAIR Fund be in the custody or control of
Ameriprise except to pass through a general clearing account to disburse to Eligible
Customers. Duplicate statements for the U.S. Bank QSF account shall be provided
directly to the IDC, Ameriprise, and the Tax Administrator. The distribution calculations
and amounts set forth in paragraphs 8, 9 and 11, above, shall be based on the distributable
amount of the FAIR Fund after accounting for the reserves set forth in paragraphs 13 and
20

15 above as calculated by the Tax Administrator as of a day certain selected for the
commencement of the calculations for the distributions not to exceed one hundred and
twenty (120) days preceding the date of distribution. Any interest earned after the date
certain for distribution shall be remitted by the Commission to the Treasury or to such
other person or entity as the Commission may direct. The Commission has appointed
Damasco and Associates to file tax returns as appropriate on behalf of the FAIR Fund as
provided under 17 C.F.R. 1101(b)(6).
18. Amendment.
The IDC will inform the Commission staff of any material changes in the Plan,
and will obtain approval from the Commission prior to their implementation. If material
changes are required, this Plan may be amended upon the motion of the Respondent, the
IDC or upon the Commission’s own motion.
19. Notice of Proposed FAIR Fund Distribution Plan.
In accordance with 17 C.F.R. 201.1101(b)(3), notice of this Plan shall be
published in the SEC Docket, on the Commission website [http://www.sec.gov], and on
the Ameriprise website [http://www.ameriprise.com]. Any person or entity wishing to
comment on the Plan must do so in writing by submitting their comments within thirty
(30) days of the date of the notice by: (i) sending a letter to the Office of the Secretary,
United States Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC
20549-1090; (ii) using the Commission’s Internet comment form
(www.sec.gov/litigation/admin.shtml); or (iii) sending an e-mail to rulecomments@sec.gov. Comments submitted by e-mail or via the Commission’s website
should include the Administrative Proceeding File Number (Admin. Proc. File No. 321

12115) in the subject line. Comments received will be available to the public.
Commenters should only submit information that they wish to make publicly available.

Submitted on: February 1, 2008

By:

22

________________________
Sarah McKenzie
Senior Vice President Brokerage and Managed Products
Ameriprise Financial, Inc.

