SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
17 CFR PART 240
[Release No. 34-63241; File No. S7-03-10]
RIN 3235-AK53
Risk Management Controls for Brokers or Dealers with Market Access
AGENCY:

Securities and Exchange Commission.

ACTION:

Final rule.

SUMMARY: The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission” or “SEC”) is adopting
new Rule 15c3-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”). Rule 15c3-5
will require brokers or dealers with access to trading securities directly on an exchange or
alternative trading system (“ATS”), including those providing sponsored or direct market access
to customers or other persons, and broker-dealer operators of an ATS that provide access to
trading securities directly on their ATS to a person other than a broker or dealer, to establish,
document, and maintain a system of risk management controls and supervisory procedures that,
among other things, are reasonably designed to (1) systematically limit the financial exposure of
the broker or dealer that could arise as a result of market access, and (2) ensure compliance with
all regulatory requirements that are applicable in connection with market access. The required
financial risk management controls and supervisory procedures must be reasonably designed to
prevent the entry of orders that exceed appropriate pre-set credit or capital thresholds, or that
appear to be erroneous. The regulatory risk management controls and supervisory procedures
must also be reasonably designed to prevent the entry of orders unless there has been compliance
with all regulatory requirements that must be satisfied on a pre-order entry basis, prevent the
entry of orders that the broker or dealer or customer is restricted from trading, restrict market

access technology and systems to authorized persons, and assure appropriate surveillance
personnel receive immediate post-trade execution reports.
The financial and regulatory risk management controls and supervisory procedures
required by Rule 15c3-5 must be under the direct and exclusive control of the broker or dealer
with market access, with limited exceptions specified in the Rule that permit reasonable
allocation of certain controls and procedures to another registered broker or dealer that, based on
its position in the transaction and relationship with the ultimate customer, can more effectively
implement them. In addition, a broker or dealer with market access will be required to establish,
document, and maintain a system for regularly reviewing the effectiveness of the risk
management controls and supervisory procedures and for promptly addressing any issues.
Among other things, the broker or dealer will be required to review, no less frequently than
annually, the business activity of the broker or dealer in connection with market access to assure
the overall effectiveness of such risk management controls and supervisory procedures and
document that review. The review will be required to be conducted in accordance with written
procedures and will be required to be documented. In addition, the Chief Executive Officer (or
equivalent officer) of the broker or dealer will be required, on an annual basis, to certify that the
risk management controls and supervisory procedures comply with Rule 15c3-5, and that the
regular review described above has been conducted.
DATES:

Effective Date: [insert date that is 60 days from publication in the Federal

Register].
Compliance Date: [insert date that is six months from effective date].
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Marc F. McKayle, Special Counsel, at (202)
551-5633; Theodore S. Venuti, Special Counsel, at (202) 551-5658; and Daniel Gien, Attorney,

2

at (202) 551-5747, Division of Trading and Markets, Securities and Exchange Commission,
100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-7010.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
Table of Contents
I.
II.
III.
IV.
V.
VI.
VII.

I.

Background
Rule 15c3-5
Paperwork Reduction Act
Consideration of Costs and Benefits
Consideration of Burden on Competition, and Promotion of Efficiency,
Competition and Capital Formation
Final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis
Statutory Authority
Text of Rule 15c3-5
Background
Given the increased automation of trading on securities exchanges and ATSs today, and

the growing popularity of sponsored or direct market access arrangements where broker-dealers
allow customers to trade in those markets electronically using the broker-dealers’ market
participant identifiers (“MPID”), the Commission is concerned that the various financial and
regulatory risks that arise in connection with such access may not be appropriately and
effectively controlled by all broker-dealers. New Rule 15c3-5 is designed to ensure that brokerdealers appropriately control the risks associated with market access, so as not to jeopardize their
own financial condition, that of other market participants, the integrity of trading on the
securities markets, and the stability of the financial system.
On January 26, 2010, Proposed Rule 15c3-5 was published for public comment in the
Federal Register. 1 The Commission received 47 comment letters on Proposed Rule 15c3-5 from
broker-dealers, markets, institutional and individual investors, technology providers, and other
1

See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 61379 (January 19, 2010), 75 FR 4007
(January 26, 2010) (File No. S7-03-10) (“Proposing Release”).

3

market participants. 2 Nearly all of the commenters supported the overarching goal of the
proposed rulemaking – to assure that broker-dealers with market access have effective controls
and procedures reasonably designed to manage the financial, regulatory, and other risks of that
activity. As further discussed below, however, several commenters recommended that the
proposal be amended or clarified in certain respects. As a result, the Commission is adopting
Rule 15c3-5 substantially as proposed, but with certain narrow modifications as discussed below.
As proposed, Rule 15c3-5 would require brokers or dealers with access to trading directly on an
exchange or ATS, including those providing sponsored or direct market access to customers or
other persons, to implement risk management controls and supervisory procedures reasonably
designed to manage the financial, regulatory, and other risks of this business activity.
The development and growth of automated electronic trading have allowed ever
increasing volumes of securities transactions across the multitude of trading systems that
constitute the U.S. national market system. In fact, much of the order flow in today’s
marketplace is typified by high-speed, high-volume, automated algorithmic trading, and orders
are routed for execution in milliseconds or even microseconds. Over the past year, the
Commission has taken a broad and critical look at market structure practices in light of the rapid
development in trading technology and strategies. The Commission has proposed several
rulemakings, including this rulemaking, to address specific vulnerabilities in the current market
structure. 3 In addition, this past January, the Commission published a concept release on equity

2

Copies of comments received on the proposal are available on the Commission’s Internet
website, located at http://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-03-10/s70310.shtml, and in the
Commission’s Public Reference Room at its Washington, DC headquarters.

3

See, e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 60684 (September 18, 2009), 74 FR
48632 (September 23, 2009) (Proposal to Eliminate Flash Order Exception from Rule
602 of Regulation NMS) (File No. S7-21-09); 60997 (November 13, 2009), 74 FR 61208
(November 23, 2009) (Proposal to Regulate Non-Public Trading Interest) (File No. S74

market structure designed to further the Commission’s broad review of market structure to assess
whether its rules have kept pace with, among other things, changes in trading technology and
practices. 4

The recent proliferation of sophisticated, high-speed trading technology has changed the
way broker-dealers trade for their own accounts and as agents for their customers. 5 In addition,
customers – particularly sophisticated institutions – have themselves begun using technological
tools to place orders and trade on markets with little or no substantive intermediation by their
broker-dealers. This, in turn, has given rise to the increased use and reliance on “direct market
access” or “sponsored access” arrangements. 6
Under these arrangements, the broker-dealer allows its customer – whether an institution
such as a hedge fund, mutual fund, bank or insurance company, an individual, or another brokerdealer – to use the broker-dealer’s MPID or other mechanism or mnemonic used to identify a
market participant for the purposes of electronically accessing an exchange or ATS. Generally,
direct market access refers to an arrangement whereby a broker-dealer permits customers to enter
27-09); 61908 (April 14, 2010), 75 FR 21456 (April 23, 2010) (Proposed Large Trader
Reporting System) (File No. S7-10-10); and 62174 (May 26, 2010), 75 FR 32556 (June
8, 2010) (Proposed Consolidated Audit Trail) (File No. S7-11-10).
4

See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 61358 (January 14, 2010), 75 FR 3594
(January 21, 2010) (File No. S7-02-10) (“Concept Release”).

5

The Commission notes that high frequency trading has been estimated to account
for more than 50 percent of the U.S. equities market volume. See Concept
Release, 75 FR at 3606.

6

It has been reported that sponsored access trading volume accounts for 50 percent of
overall average daily trading volume in the U.S. equities market. See, e.g., Carol E.
Curtis, Aite: More Oversight Inevitable for Sponsored Access, Securities Industry News,
December 14, 2009 (citing a report by Aite Group). In addition, sponsored access has
been reported to account for 15 percent of Nasdaq volume. See, e.g., Nina Mehta,
Sponsored Access Comes of Age, Traders Magazine, February 11, 2009 (quoting Brian
Hyndman, Senior Vice President for Transaction Services, Nasdaq OMX Group, Inc.
“[direct sponsored access to customers is] a small percentage of our overall customer
base, but it could be in excess of 15 percent of our overall volume.”).

5

orders into a trading center but such orders flow through the broker-dealer’s trading systems
prior to reaching the trading center. In contrast, sponsored access generally refers to an
arrangement whereby a broker-dealer permits customers to enter orders into a trading center that
bypass the broker-dealer’s trading system and are routed directly to a trading center, in some
cases supported by a service bureau or other third party technology provider. 7 “Unfiltered” or
“naked” access is generally understood to be a subset of sponsored access, where pre-trade filters
or controls are not applied to orders before such orders are submitted to an exchange or ATS. In
all cases, however, whether the broker-dealer is trading for its own account, is trading for
customers through more traditionally intermediated brokerage arrangements, or is allowing
customers direct market access or sponsored access, the broker-dealer with market access is
legally responsible for all trading activity that occurs under its MPID. 8
Certain market participants may find the wide range of access arrangements beneficial.
For instance, facilitating electronic access to markets can provide broker-dealers, as well as
exchanges and ATSs, opportunities to compete for greater volumes and a wider variety of order
flow. For a broker-dealer’s customers, which could include hedge funds, institutional investors,
individual investors, and other broker-dealers, such arrangements may reduce latencies and
facilitate more rapid trading, 9 help preserve the confidentiality of sophisticated, proprietary

7

See, e.g., Nasdaq Rule 4611(d)(1)(A). The Commission notes that Rule 15c3-5 will
effectively prohibit any access to trading on an exchange or ATS, whether sponsored or
otherwise, where pre-trade controls are not applied.

8

See, e.g., NYSE IM-89-6 (January 25, 1989); and Securities Exchange Act Release No.
40354 (August 24, 1998), 63 FR 46264 (August 31, 1998) (NASD NTM- 98-66). The
Commission notes that brokers-dealers typically access exchanges and ATSs through the
use of unique MPIDs or other identifiers, which are assigned by the market.

9

Highly automated trading systems deliver extremely high-speed, or “low latency” order
responses and executions in some cases measured in times of less than 1 millisecond.

6

trading strategies, and reduce trading costs by lowering operational costs, 10 commissions, and
exchange fees. 11
Current self-regulatory organization (“SRO”) rules and interpretations governing
electronic access to markets have sought to address the risks of this activity. 12 However, the
Commission believes that more comprehensive and effective standards that apply consistently
across the markets are needed to effectively manage the financial, regulatory, and other risks,
such as legal and operational risks, associated with market access. These risks – whether they
involve the potential breach of a credit or capital limit, the submission of erroneous orders as a
result of computer malfunction or human error, the failure to comply with SEC or exchange
trading rules, the failure to detect illegal conduct, or otherwise – are present whenever a brokerdealer trades as a member of an exchange or subscriber to an ATS, whether for its own

10

For example, broker-dealers may receive market access from other broker-dealers to an
exchange where they do not pay to maintain a membership.

11

The Commission notes that exchanges offer various discounts on transaction fees that are
based on the volume of transactions by a member firm. See, e.g., Nasdaq Rule 7018 and
NYSE Arca, Inc. (“NYSE Arca”) Fee Schedule. Exchange members may use access
arrangements as a means to aggregate order flow from multiple market participants under
one MPID to achieve higher transaction volume and thereby qualify for more favorable
pricing tiers.

12

See Proposing Release, 75 FR at 4010 – 4011 and 4029 – 4031 for a more detailed
description of previous SRO guidance and rules. The SROs have, over time, issued a
variety of guidance and rules that, among other things, address proper risk controls by
broker-dealers providing electronic access to the securities markets. In addition, this past
January, the Commission approved a new Nasdaq rule that requires broker-dealers
offering direct market access or sponsored access to Nasdaq to establish controls
regarding the associated financial and regulatory risks, and to obtain a variety of
contractual commitments from sponsored access customers. See Securities Exchange
Act Release No. 61345 (January 13, 2010) (SR-NASDAQ-2008-104) (“Nasdaq Market
Access Approval Order”), discussed in greater detail in the Appendix to the Proposing
Release. Nasdaq has delayed the implementation of this rule until 360 days after its
approval. See Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 61770 (March 24, 2010), 75 FR
16224 (March 31, 2010) (SR-NASDAQ-2010-039); and 62491 (July 13, 2010), 75 FR
41918 (July 19, 2010) (SR-NASDAQ-2010-086).

7

proprietary account or as agent for its customers, including traditional agency brokerage and
through direct market access or sponsored access arrangements.
The Commission is particularly concerned about the quality of broker-dealer risk controls
in sponsored access arrangements, where the customer order flow does not pass through the
broker-dealer’s systems prior to entry on an exchange or ATS. The Commission understands
that, in some cases, the broker-dealer providing sponsored access may not utilize any pre-trade
risk management controls (i.e. “unfiltered” or “naked” access), 13 and thus could be unaware of
the trading activity occurring under its market identifier and have no mechanism to control it.
The Commission also understands that some broker-dealers providing sponsored access may
simply rely on assurances from their customers that appropriate risk controls are in place.
Appropriate controls to manage financial and regulatory risk for all forms of market
access are essential to assure the integrity of the broker-dealer, the markets, and the financial
system. The Commission believes that risk management controls and supervisory procedures
that are not applied on a pre-trade basis or that, with certain limited exceptions, are not under the
exclusive control of the broker-dealer, are inadequate to effectively address the risks of market
access arrangements, and pose a particularly significant vulnerability in the U.S. national market
system.
Market participants recognize the risks associated with naked sponsored access, with one
commenter noting, for example, that the potential systemic risk is now “too large to ignore.” 14

13

It has been reported that “unfiltered” access accounts for an estimated 38 percent of the
average daily volume of the U.S. stock market. See, e.g., Scott Patterson, Big Slice of
Market Is Going ‘Naked’, Wall Street Journal, December 14, 2009 (citing a report by
Aite Group).

14

See letter to Elizabeth M. Murphy, Secretary, Commission, from John Jacobs, Director of
Operations, Lime Brokerage LLC, March 29, 2010 (“Lime Letter”) at 1 (“[T]he potential
for systemic risk posed by unregulated entities accessing the public markets directly and
8

Today, order placement rates can exceed 1,000 orders per second with the use of high-speed,
automated algorithms. 15 If, for example, an algorithm such as this malfunctioned and placed
repetitive orders with an average size of 300 shares and an average price of $20, a two-minute
delay in the detection of the problem could result in the entry of, for example, 120,000 orders
valued at $720 million. In sponsored access arrangements, as well as other access arrangements,
appropriate pre-trade risk controls could prevent this outcome from occurring by blocking
unintended orders from being routed to an exchange or ATS.
As noted in the Proposing Release, while incidents involving algorithmic or other trading
errors in connection with market access occur with some regularity, 16 the Commission also is

without any supervision is an issue too large to ignore, with estimates that naked access
may account for somewhere between 10% - 38% of all US equity market trading activity,
and most likely a much greater participation percentage for orders placed.”); See also
letter to Elizabeth M. Murphy, Secretary, Commission, from Jose Marques, Managing
Director, Global Head of Electronic Equity Trading, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.,
March 31, 2010 (“Deutsche Bank Letter”) at 2 (“[W]e are cognizant of the market and
systemic risks that regulators perceive in unchecked market access, and agree that
uniform guidance from the SEC as to the responsibilities of market access is needed.”).
15

See letter to Elizabeth M. Murphy, Secretary, Commission, from John Jacobs, Director of
Operations, Lime Brokerage LLC, February 17, 2009 (commenting on a proposed rule
change filed by The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC to adopt a modified sponsored access
rule (File No. SR-NASDAQ-2008-104)).

16

Proposing Release, 75 FR at 4009. For example, it was reported that, on September 30,
2008, shares of Google fell as much as 93% in value due to an influx of erroneous orders
onto an exchange from a single market participant. See Ben Rooney, Google Price
Corrected After Trading Snafu, CNNMoney.com, September 30, 2008,
http://money.cnn.com/2008/09/30/news/companies/google_nasdaq/?postversion=200809
3019 (“Google Trading Incident”). In addition, it was reported that, in September 2009,
Southwest Securities announced a $6.3 million quarterly loss resulting from deficient
market access controls with respect to one of its correspondent brokers that vastly
exceeded its credit limits. John Hintze, Risk Revealed in Post-Trade Monitoring,
Securities Industry News, September 8, 2009 (“SWS Trading Incident”). Another recent
example occurred on January 4, 2010, when it was reported that shares of Rambus, Inc.
suffered an intra-day price drop of approximately thirty-five percent due to erroneous
trades causing stock and options exchanges to break trades. See Whitney Kisling and Ian
King, Rambus Trades Cancelled by Exchanges on Error Rule, BusinessWeek, January 4,
2010, http://www.businessweek.com/news/2010-01-04/rambus-trading-under9

concerned about preventing other, potentially severe, widespread incidents that could arise as a
result of inadequate risk controls on market access. As trading in the U.S. securities markets has
become more automated and high-speed trading more prevalent, the potential impact of a trading
error or a rapid series of errors, caused by a computer or human error, or a malicious act, has
become more severe. In addition, the inter-connectedness of the financial markets can
exacerbate market movements, whether they are in response to actual market sentiment or
trading errors.
For instance, on May 6, 2010, the financial markets experienced a brief but severe drop in
prices, falling more than 5% in a matter of minutes, only to recover a short time later. 17 This
incident provides a striking example of just how quickly and severely today’s financial markets
investigation-as-potential-error-update1-.html (stating “[a] series of Rambus Inc. trades
that were executed about $5 below today’s average price were canceled under rules that
govern stock transactions that are determined to be ‘clearly erroneous.’”) (“Rambus
Trading Incident”). More recently, single stock circuit breakers have been triggered for
trading in shares of The Washington Post Company (WPO) and Progress Energy, Inc.
(PGN) on June 16, 2010 and on September 27, 2010, respectively, due to severe price
movements caused by order entry errors. In addition, certain exchanges provide a
searchable history of erroneous trade cancellations on their website, which indicate that
erroneous trades occur with some regularity. See
http://www.nasdaqtrader.com/Trader.aspx?id=MarketSystemStatusSearch.
17

See Findings Regarding the Market Events of May 6, 2010, Report of the Staffs of the
CFTC and SEC to the Joint Advisory Committee on Emerging Regulatory Issues at
http://www.sec.gov/news/studies/2010/marketevents-report.pdf. See also Preliminary
Findings Regarding the Market Events of May 6, 2010, Report of the Staffs of the CFTC
and SEC to the Joint Advisory Committee on Emerging Regulatory Issues at
http://www.sec.gov/sec-cftc-prelimreport.pdf. The Commission has taken steps to
address the market vulnerabilities evidenced by the events of May 6th such as by working
with the exchanges and FINRA to implement coordinated circuit breakers for individual
stocks and to clarify the process for breaking erroneous trades. See Securities Exchange
Act Release Nos. 62283 (September 10, 2010), 75 FR 56608 (September 16, 2010);
62884 (September 10, 2010), 75 FR 56618 (September 16, 2010); 62251 (June 10, 2010),
75 FR 34183 (June 16, 2010); and 62252 (June 10, 2010), 75 FR 34186 (June 16, 2010);
see also Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 62885 (September 10, 2010), 75 FR
56641 (September 16, 2010); and 62886 (September 10, 2010), 75 FR 56613 (September
16, 2010). The Commission will continue to explore additional ways in which these
vulnerabilities can be addressed.

10

can move across a wide range of securities and futures products. If a price shock in one or more
securities were to occur as a result of computer or human error, for example, it could spread
rapidly across the financial markets, potentially with systemic implications. To address these
risks, the Commission believes broker-dealers, as the entities through which access to markets is
obtained, should implement effective controls reasonably designed to prevent errors or other
inappropriate conduct from potentially causing a significant disruption to the markets.
The Commission believes that Rule 15c3-5 should reduce the risks faced by brokerdealers, as well as the markets and the financial system as a whole, as a result of various market
access arrangements, by requiring effective financial and regulatory risk management controls
reasonably designed to limit financial exposure and ensure compliance with applicable
regulatory requirements to be implemented on a market-wide basis. As described below, these
financial and regulatory risk management controls should reduce risks associated with market
access and thereby enhance market integrity and investor protection in the securities markets.
For example, a system-driven, pre-trade control designed to reject orders that are not reasonably
related to the quoted price of the security would prevent erroneously entered orders from
reaching the securities markets, which should lead to fewer broken trades and thereby enhance
the integrity of trading on the securities markets.
Rule 15c3-5 is intended to complement and bolster existing rules and guidance issued by
the exchanges and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) with respect to
market access. 18 Moreover, by establishing a single set of broker-dealer obligations with respect
to market access risk management controls across markets, Rule 15c3-5 will provide uniform
18

See Proposing Release, Appendix, 75 FR at 4029 – 4031 (noting current SRO guidance
with regard to internal procedures and controls to manage the financial and regulatory
risks associated with market access for members that provide market access to
customers).

11

standards that will be interpreted and enforced in a consistent manner and, as a result, reduce the
potential for regulatory arbitrage. 19
II.

Rule 15c3-5
The Commission is adopting Rule 15c3-5 – Risk Management Controls for Brokers or

Dealers with Market Access – to reduce the risks faced by broker-dealers, as well as the markets
and the financial system as a whole, as a result of various market access arrangements, by
requiring effective financial and regulatory risk management controls reasonably designed to
limit financial exposure and ensure compliance with applicable regulatory requirements to be
implemented on a market-wide basis. These financial and regulatory risk management controls
should reduce risks associated with market access and thereby enhance market integrity and
investor protection in the securities markets. Rule 15c3-5 is intended to strengthen the controls
with respect to market access and, because it will apply to trading on all exchanges and ATSs,
reduce regulatory inconsistency and the potential for regulatory arbitrage. Rule 15c3-5 will
require a broker or dealer with market access, or that provides a customer or any other person
with access to an exchange or ATS through use of its MPID or otherwise, to establish, document,
and maintain a system of risk management controls and supervisory procedures reasonably
designed to manage the financial, regulatory, and other risks, such as legal and operational risks,
related to market access. The Rule will apply to trading in all securities on an exchange or

19

See, e.g., letters to Elizabeth M. Murphy, Secretary, Commission, from Manisha Kimmel,
Executive Director, Financial Information Forum, February 19, 2009 (“The [Nasdaq]
proposal to establish a well-defined set of rules governing sponsored access is a positive
step towards addressing consistency in sponsored access requirements.”); and Ted
Myerson, President, FTEN, Inc., February 19, 2009 (“[I]t is imperative that Congress and
regulators, together with the private sector, work together to encourage effective realtime, pre-trade, market-wide systemic risk solutions that help prevent [sponsored access]
errors from occurring in the first place.”).

12

ATS, 20 including equities, options, exchange-traded funds, debt securities, and security-based
swaps. 21 Further, it will require that the broker or dealer with market access have direct and
exclusive control of the risk management controls and supervisory procedures, while permitting
the reasonable and appropriate allocation of specific risk management controls and supervisory
procedures to a customer that is a registered broker-dealer so long as the broker-dealer providing
market access has a reasonable basis for determining that such customer, based on its position in
the transaction and relationship with the ultimate customer, can more effectively implement
them. Finally, and importantly, Rule 15c3-5 will require those controls to be implemented on a
pre-trade basis, which will necessarily eliminate the practice of broker-dealers providing
“unfiltered” or “naked” access to any exchange or ATS. As a result, the Commission believes
Rule 15c3-5 should substantially mitigate a particularly serious vulnerability of the U.S.
securities markets.
After careful review and consideration of the comment letters, the Commission has
determined to adopt Rule 15c3-5 substantially as proposed, but with certain narrow
modifications made in response to concerns expressed by commenters as discussed below.
Consistent with the Proposing Release, Rule 15c3-5 is organized as follows: (1) relevant
definitions, as set forth in Rule 15c3-5(a); (2) the general requirement to maintain risk
management controls and supervisory procedures in connection with market access, as set forth
20

Under Section 763 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Customer Protection Act
(“Dodd-Frank Act”), the Commission has new authority over security-based swap
execution facilities. The Commission will consider possible application of risk
management controls and supervisory procedures to trading on security-based swap
execution facilities and other venues that facilitate the trading of such products.

21

The Dodd-Frank Act, in Section 761, amended the definition of security to include
security-based swaps. As such, the Commission notes that Rule 15c3-5 will apply to a
broker or dealer with access to trading security-based swaps on a national securities
exchange that makes security-based swaps available to trade.

13

in Rule 15c3-5(b); (3) the more specific requirements to maintain certain financial and regulatory
risk management controls and supervisory procedures, as set forth in Rule 15c3-5(c); (4) the
mandate that those controls and supervisory procedures, with certain limited exceptions, be
under the direct and exclusive control of the broker-dealer with market access, as set forth in
Rule 15c3-5(d); and (5) the requirement that the broker-dealer regularly review the effectiveness
of the risk management controls and supervisory procedures, as set forth in Rule 15c3-5(e). This
release first gives a general description of Rule 15c3-5 as adopted and then, in turn, discusses the
specific provisions of Proposed Rule 15c3-5, the comments received on each provision, and any
modifications to the provision from the Proposing Release.
A.

Summary of Rule 15c3-5

Rule 15c3-5 will require a broker or dealer that has market access, or that provides a
customer or any other person with access to an exchange or ATS through use of its MPID or
otherwise, to establish, document, and maintain a system of risk management controls and
supervisory procedures reasonably designed to manage the financial, regulatory, and other risks,
such as legal and operational risks, related to such market access. Specifically, the Rule will
require that broker-dealers with access to trading securities on an exchange or ATS, as a result of
being a member or subscriber thereof, and broker-dealer operators of an ATS that provide access
to their ATS to a non-broker-dealer, establish, document, and maintain a system of risk
management controls and supervisory procedures that, among other things, are reasonably
designed to (1) systematically limit the financial exposure of the broker or dealer that could arise
as a result of market access, and (2) ensure compliance with all regulatory requirements that are
applicable in connection with market access. 22 Broker-dealers that provide outbound routing
22

The Commission notes that the term “regulatory requirements” references existing
regulatory requirements applicable to broker-dealers in connection with market access,
14

services to an exchange or ATS in order for those trading centers to meet the requirements of
Rule 611 of Regulation NMS will not be required to comply with the Rule with respect to such
routing services, except with regard to paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of the Rule (regarding prevention of
erroneous orders).
The required financial risk management controls and supervisory procedures must be
reasonably designed to prevent the entry of orders that exceed appropriate pre-set credit or
capital thresholds, or that appear to be erroneous. The regulatory risk management controls and
supervisory procedures must be reasonably designed to prevent the entry of orders unless there
has been compliance with all regulatory requirements that must be satisfied on a pre-order entry
basis, prevent the entry of orders that the broker-dealer or customer is restricted from trading,
restrict market access technology and systems to authorized persons, and assure appropriate
surveillance personnel receive immediate post-trade execution reports. Each such broker-dealer
will be required to preserve a copy of its supervisory procedures and a written description of its
risk management controls as part of its books and records in a manner consistent with Rule 17a4(e)(7) under the Exchange Act. 23
The financial and regulatory risk management controls and supervisory procedures
required by Rule 15c3-5 must be under the direct and exclusive control of the broker-dealer with
market access, with certain limited exceptions permitting allocation to a customer that is a
and is not intended to substantively expand upon them. The specific content of the
“regulatory requirements” would, of course, adjust over time as laws, rules, and
regulations are modified.
23

See 17 CFR 240.17a-4(e)(7). Pursuant to Rule 17a-4(e)(7), every broker or dealer
subject to Rule 17a-3 is required to maintain and preserve in an easily accessible place
each compliance, supervisory, and procedures manual, including any updates,
modifications, and revisions to the manual, describing the policies and practices of the
broker or dealer with respect to compliance with applicable laws and rules, and
supervision of the activities of each natural person associated with the broker or dealer
until three years after the termination of the use of the manual.

15

registered broker-dealer of specified functions that, based on its position in the transaction and
relationship with the ultimate customer, it can more effectively implement. In addition, a brokerdealer with market access will be required to establish, document, and maintain a system for
regularly reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management controls and supervisory
procedures and for promptly addressing any issues. Among other things, the broker-dealer will
be required to review, no less frequently than annually, the business activity of the broker-dealer
in connection with market access to assure the overall effectiveness of its risk management
controls and supervisory procedures. Such review will be required to be conducted in
accordance with written procedures and will be required to be documented. The broker-dealer
will be required to preserve a copy of its written procedures, and documentation of each review,
as part of its books and records in a manner consistent with Rule 17a-4(e)(7) under the Exchange
Act, 24 and Rule 17a-4(b) under the Exchange Act, respectively. 25
In addition, the Chief Executive Officer (or equivalent officer) of the broker-dealer will
be required, on an annual basis, to certify that the risk management controls and supervisory
procedures comply with Rule 15c3-5, and that the regular review described above has been
conducted. Such certifications will be required to be preserved by the broker-dealer as part of its
books and records in a manner consistent with Rule 17a-4(b) under the Exchange Act. 26
B.

Definitions

As proposed, Rule 15c3-5 sets forth two defined terms: “market access” and “regulatory
requirements.” The term “market access” is central to Proposed Rule 15c3-5, as it determines
24

Id.

25

See 17 CFR 240.17a-4(b). Pursuant to Rule 17a-4(b), every broker or dealer subject to
Rule 17a-3 is required to preserve for a period of not less than three years, the first two
years in an easily accessible place, certain records of the broker or dealer.

26

Id.

16

which broker-dealers are subject to Rule and the scope of the required financial and regulatory
risk management controls and supervisory procedures. In the Proposing Release, the
Commission proposed to define the term “market access” as access to trading in securities on an
exchange or ATS as a result of being a member or subscriber of the exchange or ATS,
respectively. 27 In the Proposing Release, the Commission explained that “market access” is
intentionally defined broadly so as to include not only direct market access or sponsored access
services offered to customers of broker-dealers, but also access to trading for the proprietary
account of the broker-dealer and for more traditional agency activities. In addition, the proposed
definition would encompass trading in all securities on an exchange or ATS, including equities,
options, exchange-traded funds, debt securities, and security-based swaps.
1. Non-Broker-Dealer ATS Subscribers
By its terms, the proposed rule would not have applied to non-broker-dealer market
participants, including non-broker-dealer subscribers to ATSs. 28 In addition, as proposed, the
definition of “market access” was limited by the phrase “as a result of being a member or
subscriber of the exchange or ATS, respectively.” Accordingly, a broker-dealer that operates an
ATS and provides non-broker-dealer market participants access to its ATS would not have been
included within the proposed definition of market access, because such access would not result
from that broker-dealer being a subscriber to the ATS, but rather from its being the ATS
operator.

27

Proposed Rule 15c3-5(a)(1).

28

See Proposing Release, 75 FR at 4012 n. 35 (stating that “Proposed Rule 15c3-5 would
not apply to non-broker-dealers, including non-broker-dealers that are subscribers of an
ATS.”).

17

With regard to exchanges, the Exchange Act requires members to be registered brokerdealers. 29 Accordingly, the proposed rule was intended to ensure that all orders submitted to an
exchange would flow through broker-dealer systems subject to Rule 15c3-5 prior to such orders
entering an exchange. While the majority of ATS subscribers are broker-dealers, the current
ATS regulatory regime does not require a subscriber to be a broker-dealer. 30 As proposed, since
a non-broker-dealer subscriber to an ATS would not have been subject to the proposed rule,
orders it submits directly to an ATS to which it subscribes would not have flowed through a
broker-dealer system subject to Proposed Rule 15c3-5 before entering the ATS.
In the Proposing Release, the Commission requested comment on whether the brokerdealer operator of an ATS should be required to implement risk management controls and
supervisory procedures with regard to a non-broker-dealer subscriber’s access to its ATS. Nine
commenters specifically addressed non-broker-dealer access to trading in securities on ATSs in
response to this request. 31 Generally, these commenters believed that all orders entered on an

29

See 15 U.S.C. 78f(c)(1) (“A national securities exchange shall deny membership to (A)
any person, other than a natural person, which is not a registered broker or dealer or (B)
any natural person who is not, or is not associated with, a registered broker or dealer.”).

30

See 17 CFR 242.300(b).

31

See letters to Elizabeth M. Murphy, Secretary, Commission, from Marcia E. Asquith,
Senior Vice President and Corporate Secretary, FINRA, March 25, 2010 (“FINRA
Letter”); Christopher Lee, Global Head of Market Access, and Paul Willis, Global
Compliance Officer, Fortis Bank Global Clearing N.V. London Branch, March 26, 2010
(“Fortis Letter”); J. Ronald Morgan, Managing Director, Goldman, Sachs & Co., and
Timothy T. Furey, Managing Director, Goldman Sachs Execution & Clearing, L.P.,
March 20, 2010 (“Goldman Letter”); Timothy J. Mahoney, Chief Executive Officer,
Marybeth Shay, Senior Managing Director Sales and Marketing, and Vivian A. Maese,
General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, BIDS Trading, March 29, 2010 (“BIDS
Letter”); P. Mats Goebels, Managing Director and General Counsel, Investment
Technology Group, Inc., March 29, 2010 (“ITG Letter”); Peter Kovac, Chief Operating
Officer and Financial and Operations Principal, EWT LLC, March 29, 2010 (“EWT
Letter”); John A. McCarthy, General Counsel, GETCO, April 1, 2010 (“GETCO
Letter”); Jeffery S. Davis, Vice President and Deputy General Counsel, The Nasdaq
18

exchange or ATS should be subject to equivalent regulatory treatment, and urged the
Commission to address this issue. For example, FINRA noted that the same regulatory and
financial risks associated with broker-dealer access arrangements are present when a non-brokerdealer subscriber enters orders and accesses an ATS. 32
Six commenters recommended that the broker-dealer operator of the ATS should be
required to implement the required risk management controls and supervisory procedures with
regard to order flow from non-broker-dealer subscribers. 33 In general, these commenters
believed that the broker-dealer operator of an ATS is best positioned to implement the risk
management controls and supervisory procedures required under the proposed rule for order flow
entered into its ATS by non-broker-dealer subscribers. For example, one commenter noted that,
when receiving orders from non-broker-dealer subscribers, the ATS’s sponsoring broker-dealer
is the only broker-dealer in the chain of order flow from the subscriber to the ATS. 34 Similarly,
FINRA believed that, because ATSs themselves have regulatory obligations as registered brokerdealers and FINRA members, it is appropriate to impose risk management obligations on ATSs
to the extent that non-registered entities are permitted to access its ATS. 35 Two other
commenters agreed that an ATS should be required to implement risk management controls and

OMX Group (“Nasdaq Letter”); Ann Vlcek, Managing Director and Associate General
Counsel, SIFMA, April 16, 2010 (“SIFMA Letter”).
32

See FINRA Letter at 3-4.

33

See FINRA Letter at 3-4; Fortis Letter at 5; Goldman Letter at 1 n. 3; BIDS Letter at 4;
ITG Letter at 9; SIFMA Letter at 7.

34

See ITG Letter at 9.

35

See FINRA Letter at 3-4.

19

supervisory procedures with regard to order flow from non-broker-dealer subscribers, but they
believed this obligation stems from its status as a market center rather than as a broker-dealer. 36
Several commenters put forth additional ideas as to how to address non-broker-dealer
subscriber access to an ATS. One commenter suggested that the broker-dealer that clears the
trades that occur on an ATS for a non-broker-dealer subscriber should be required to implement
the risk controls with regard to such orders. 37 Another commenter proposed that the
Commission amend the ATS regulatory structure to require ATS subscribers to be brokerdealers. 38 Yet another commenter suggested that the Commission directly subject the nonbroker-dealer subscribers to the proposed rule. 39 The Commission received no comments
suggesting that non-broker-dealer subscriber access to an ATS should be outside the scope of the
proposed rule.
The Commission agrees that similar regulatory and financial risks are present when a
non-broker-dealer subscriber directly accesses an ATS as when a broker-dealer accesses an
exchange or ATS. Accordingly, the Commission believes that such access should be subject to
the requirements of the proposed rule to ensure that all orders that enter an ATS are subject to
effective risk management controls and supervisory procedures reasonably designed to limit
financial exposure and ensure compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. Specifically,
the Commission believes that the broker-dealer operator of an ATS should be required to
implement the financial and regulatory risk management controls and supervisory procedures
required by the Rule with regard to access by non-broker-dealer subscribers to its ATS.

36

See Fortis Letter at 5; BIDS Letter at 4.

37

See EWT Letter at 2.

38

See GETCO Letter at 7.

39

See Nasdaq Letter at 2.

20

As noted above, because Rule 15c3-5 will not apply to non-broker-dealer subscribers,
several commenters suggested alternative ways to subject non-broker-dealer ATS subscribers to
the proposed rule. The Commission believes, however, that the broker-dealer operator of an
ATS is the best positioned broker-dealer to implement the risk management controls, particularly
the pre-trade controls, required under the proposed rule. In addition, the Commission believes
the broker-dealer operator of an ATS can effectively achieve the purposes of the Rule.
Requiring the broker-dealer operator of an ATS to implement the risk management controls and
supervisory procedures required by the proposed rule with respect to non-broker-dealer
subscribers should ensure that all order flow entered on an ATS is subject to the Rule’s financial
and regulatory risk management controls and supervisory procedures. 40
Accordingly, the term “market access” in Rule 15c3-5(a)(1), as adopted, is defined to
include “access to trading in securities on an alternative trading system provided by a brokerdealer operator of an alternative trading system to a non-broker-dealer.” A broker-dealer
operator of an ATS, therefore, would have “market access” if it provides non-broker-dealer
subscribers access to its ATS. Such a broker-dealer ATS operator would be subject to Rule
15c3-5 and would be required, among other things, to establish, document, and maintain a
system of risk management controls and supervisory procedures reasonably designed to manage
the financial, regulatory, and other risks of this business activity.
The Commission believes any broker-dealer with direct access to trading on an exchange
or ATS, or that provides other market participants access to trading on an exchange or ATS,
should establish effective risk management controls reasonably designed to prevent breaches of

40

As discussed in greater detail, infra, a broker-dealer subscriber of an ATS will be able to
utilize the risk management tools and software provided by the ATS to fulfill the
requirements of the Rule.

21

credit or capital limits, erroneous trades, violations of SEC or exchange trading rules, and the
like. These risk management controls should reduce risks associated with market access and
thereby enhance market integrity and investor protection in the securities markets.
2. “Regulatory Requirements”
Under Proposed Rule 15c3-5(a)(2), the term “regulatory requirements” was defined to
include all federal securities laws, rules and regulations, and rules of SROs, that are applicable in
connection with market access. In the Proposing Release, the Commission stated that it intends
this definition to encompass all of a broker-dealer’s regulatory requirements that arise in
connection with its market access. 41 “Regulatory requirements” is a key term that controls the
scope of the regulatory risk management controls and supervisory procedures required by
Proposed Rule 15c3-5(c)(2). While several commenters addressed the scope of the term
“regulatory requirements” in the context of the proposal to require risk management controls and
supervisory systems, 42 a few commenters expressed concern regarding the specific definition of
“regulatory requirements.” Two commenters requested that the Commission clarify that the
definition does not expand or alter the current obligations of broker-dealers with market access
or that provide other market participants with access to trading on an exchange or ATS. 43 The
Commission emphasizes that the term “regulatory requirements” references existing regulatory
requirements applicable to broker-dealers in connection with market access, and is not intended
to substantively expand upon them (a concern noted by some commenters). As discussed below
in Section II.E, these regulatory requirements would include, for example, pre-trade
41

See Proposing Release, 75 FR at 4012.

42

These comments are addressed in Section II.E. below.

43

SIFMA Letter at 6; letter to Elizabeth M. Murphy, Secretary, Commission, from Joseph
M. Velli, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ConvergEx Group, April 9, 2010
(“ConvergEx Letter”) at 6.

22

requirements such as exchange trading rules relating to special order types, trading halts, odd-lot
orders, and SEC rules under Regulation SHO and Regulation NMS, as well as post-trade
obligations to monitor for manipulation and other illegal activity. The specific content of the
“regulatory requirements” would, of course, adjust over time as laws, rules and regulations are
modified.
C.

Requirement to Maintain Risk Management Controls and Supervisory
Procedures

Proposed Rule 15c3-5(b) sets forth the general requirement that any broker-dealer with
access to trading on an exchange or ATS must establish risk management controls and
supervisory procedures reasonably designed to manage the associated risks. Specifically,
Proposed Rule 15c3-5(b) provides that a broker-dealer with market access, or that provides a
customer or any other person with access to an exchange or ATS through use of its MPID or
otherwise, shall establish, document, and maintain a system of risk management controls and
supervisory procedures reasonably designed to manage the financial, regulatory, and other risks,
such as legal and operational risks, of this business activity. Proposed Rule 15c3-5(b) requires
the controls and procedures to be documented in writing, and requires the broker-dealer to
preserve a copy of its supervisory procedures and a written description of its risk management
controls as part of its books and records in a manner consistent with Rule 17a-4(e)(7) under the
Exchange Act. 44
1. “Reasonably Designed” Controls and Procedures
Proposed Rule 15c3-5(b) requires that the risk management controls and supervisory
procedures of a broker-dealer subject to the rule be “reasonably designed” to manage the risks
associated with market access. Commenters generally supported the proposed “reasonably
44

See 17 CFR 240.17a-4(e)(7).

23

designed” standard in the rule. 45 In the Proposing Release, the Commission noted that the
proposed rule allows flexibility for the details of the controls and procedures to vary from
broker-dealer to broker-dealer, depending on the nature of the business and customer base, so
long as they are reasonably designed to achieve the goals articulated in the proposed rule. 46
Accordingly, Rule 15c3-5 does not employ a “one-size-fits-all” standard for determining
compliance with the rule. 47 For example, a broker-dealer that only handles order flow from
retail clients may very well develop different risk management controls and supervisory
procedures than a broker-dealer that mostly services order flow from sophisticated high
frequency traders. 48
2. Application to Traditional Agency Brokerage and Proprietary Trading

45

See, e.g., EWT Letter at 4; SIFMA Letter at 2; letters to Elizabeth M. Murphy, Secretary,
Commission, from Jeffrey W. Rubin, Chair, Committee on Federal Regulation of
Securities, American Bar Association, April 5, 2010 (“ABA Letter”) at 5; Edward J.
Joyce, President and Chief Operating Officer, Chicago Board Options Exchange,
Incorporated (“CBOE Letter”) at 3.

46

In agreeing with the approach of the proposed rule, one commenter noted that “[a]n
effective risk management system should be tailored to the business of the broker-dealer,
taking into account a comprehensive view of the firm’s activities, including the
individual circumstances of various customers and clients, and a quantitative analysis of
the trading goals and strategies employed across all asset classes for each entity placing
orders.” See EWT Letter at 4.

47

ABA Letter at 5 (requesting that the Commission clearly state that the proposed
“reasonably designed” standard is not meant to be a one-size-fits-all test that would
unreasonably burden smaller broker-dealers). See also letter to Elizabeth M. Murphy,
Secretary, Commission, from Edward Wedbush, President, and Jeff Bell, Executive Vice
President, Wedbush Securities Inc., March 31, 2010 (“Wedbush Letter”) at 1 (stating that
“the requirements of the Proposed Rule should not be applied on a one size fits all
basis.”).

48

The Commission agrees with a commenter that noted that “[r]isk controls must be
tailored to the particular nature of the market access, the arrangements between the
market participants and the market venue, and the client’s trading strategy.” Goldman
Letter at 2.

24

As noted above, the Commission expressed the view in the Proposing Release that the
financial and regulatory risk management controls and supervisory procedures described in the
proposed rule should apply broadly to all forms of market access by broker-dealers that are
exchange members or ATS subscribers, including sponsored access, direct market access, and
more traditional agency brokerage arrangements with customers, as well as proprietary trading. 49
Accordingly, the proposed term “market access” includes all such activities.
Certain commenters suggested that the scope of the proposed rule is too far-reaching in
that it encompasses broker-dealer activities that do not raise risks as significant as those that
occur in “unfiltered” sponsored access arrangements. 50 One commenter believed that the
proposed rule would lead to duplicative, unnecessary, and costly regulation. 51 Another
commenter, while acknowledging the risks posed by unfiltered sponsored access arrangements,
questioned the need for the rule to cover other market access arrangements. 52 In contrast, one
commenter stated that Rule 15c3-5 should apply equally to customer and proprietary trading
activity, and “should not just be applicable to those members offering third party access.” 53
Another commenter similarly noted that uniform principles with respect to market access are
warranted, and that any final rule on market access should not advantage a broker-dealer’s

49

Proposed Rule 15c3-5 would not apply to non-broker-dealers, including non-brokerdealers that are subscribers of an ATS.

50

See, e.g., ABA Letter at 2-3; CBOE Letter at 1; letter to Elizabeth M. Murphy, Secretary,
Commission, from Kimberly Unger, Executive Director, The Securities Traders
Association of New York, Inc., March 29, 2010 (“STANY Letter”) at 2.

51

STANY Letter at 2.

52

CBOE Letter at 2.

53

Fortis Letter at 4.

25

proprietary business over its customer business. 54 Yet another commenter noted that subjecting
proprietary trading of broker-dealers to Rule 15c3-5 would create “common expectations for all
firms to police themselves in order to limit potential market impacting events.”55
The Commission continues to believe that the risks associated with market access –
whether they involve the potential breach of a credit or capital limit, the submission of erroneous
orders as a result of computer malfunction or human error, the failure to comply with SEC or
exchange trading rules, the failure to detect illegal conduct, or otherwise – are present whenever
a broker-dealer trades as a member of an exchange or subscriber to an ATS, whether for its own
proprietary account or as agent for its customers, including traditional agency brokerage and
through direct market access or sponsored access arrangements. The Commission believes that
to effectively address these risks, Rule 15c3-5 must apply broadly to all access to trading on an
exchange or ATS.
In addition, the Commission, consistent with our understanding of current broker-dealer
best practices, continues to believe that, in many cases, particularly with respect to proprietary
trading and more traditional agency brokerage activities, that Rule 15c3-5 should be substantially
satisfied by existing risk management controls and supervisory procedures already implemented
by broker-dealers. 56 For these broker-dealers, Rule 15c3-5 should have a minimal impact on
54

Letter to Elizabeth M. Murphy, Secretary, Commission, from Stuart J. Kaswell,
Executive Vice President and Managing Director, General Counsel, Managed Funds
Association (“MFA”), March 29, 2010 (“MFA Letter”) at 2. MFA recognized that
different types of filters and control settings for proprietary orders and customer orders
may be warranted due to the different types of risks presented by such orders. Id. See
also Wedbush Letter at 4 (“Certain pre-trade risk filters should be applied to all orders
whether sponsored or not, thereby eliminating the performance or speed differential, and
effectively encouraging firms to utilize these controls.”).

55

GETCO Letter at 2.

56

See Proposing Release, Appendix, 75 FR at 4029 – 4031 (noting current SRO guidance
with regard to internal procedures and controls to manage the financial and regulatory
26

current business practices and, therefore, should not impose significant additional costs on those
broker-dealers that currently employ a prudent approach to risk management. 57 Rule 15c3-5 will
assure that broker-dealer controls and procedures are appropriately strengthened, as necessary, so
that consistent standards are applied for all types of market access. By requiring all forms of
market access by broker-dealers to meet certain baseline standards for financial and regulatory
risk management controls, Rule 15c3-5 should reduce risks to broker-dealers, the markets, and
the financial system, and thereby enhance market integrity and investor protection.
3. Risk Management Controls Provided by Exchanges and ATSs
Several commenters addressed the role of market centers - exchanges and ATSs – in
connection with the establishment of risk management controls. 58 Some commenters suggested
that market centers, rather than broker-dealers with market access, should be responsible for
implementing certain pre-trade risk management controls. These commenters generally argued
that the market center is best positioned to implement pre-trade risk management controls such
as those designed to prevent erroneous orders and assure compliance with SRO rules relating to

risks associated with market access for members that provide market access to
customers).
57

Id.

58

See Wedbush Letter at 4; Fortis Letter at 2; SIFMA Letter at 6; CBOE Letter at 4;
Goldman Letter at 7; GETCO Letter at 6; ITG Letter at 3-4; Lime Letter at 6; Deutsche
Bank Letter at 5-6; letters to Elizabeth M. Murphy, Secretary, Commission, from Richard
D. Berliand, Managing Director and Head of Prime Services and Market Structure
Group, and John J. Hogan, Managing Director and Chief Risk Officer, Investment Bank,
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., April 26, 2010 (“JP Morgan Letter”) at 2-3; Jesse Lawrence,
Director and Managing Counsel, Pershing LLC, March 24, 2010 (“Pershing Letter”) at 34; Nicole Harner Williams, Vice President and Associate General Counsel, Penson
Worldwide, Inc., March 29, 2010 (“Penson Letter”) at 3; Gary DeWaal, Senior Managing
Director and Group General Counsel, Newedge USA, LLC, March 29, 2010 (“Newedge
Letter”) at 2, 4; John M. Damgard, President, Futures Industry Association, May 6, 2010,
(“FIA Letter”) at 2.

27

trading halts and special order types. 59 Some commenters argued that applying pre-trade risk
controls at the market center level would provide for uniform treatment of all orders entered on
that market center, 60 and would more equitably allocate risk management obligations among
those that benefit from trading. 61 In this regard, commenters noted that certain exchanges
currently provide users with an array of pre-trade risk controls, and urged the Commission to
allow broker-dealers to rely on these exchange controls to comply with the Rule. 62 The
Commission believes that market center-provided pre-trade risk controls can be useful risk
management tools. The Commission continues to believe, however, that broker-dealers with
market access should be responsible in the first instance for establishing and maintaining
appropriate risk management controls under the Rule. The Commission notes, as discussed in
Section F. below, that broker-dealers may be able to use market center-provided pre-trade risk
controls as part of an overall plan to comply with the Rule. In addition, the Commission notes
that market centers may independently implement pre-trade risk management controls to
supplement those applied by broker-dealers.
4. Routing Brokers
In the Proposing Release, the Commission requested comment on whether any particular
market access arrangement warranted different treatment under the proposed rule. In response,
eight commenters expressed concern with the application of the proposed rule to broker-dealers

59

See, e.g., Pershing Letter at 3; Penson Letter at 3; Deutsche Bank Letter at 5; Goldman
Letter at 7; ITG Letter at 3; Lime Letter at 6; JP Morgan Letter at 2.

60

See, e.g., Deutsche Bank Letter at 2; Lime Letter at 6; Wedbush Letter at 4; Pershing
Letter at 3.

61

See, e.g., Newedge Letter at 2.

62

See, e.g., Wedbush Letter at 4. See also NYSE Letter at 3; BATS Letter at 2; BIDS
Letter at 2.

28

that provide outbound order routing services to exchanges. 63 In addition, two of these
commenters noted the same concerns with respect to broker-dealers that provide outbound order
routing services to ATSs. 64 As proposed, Rule 15c3-5 would have applied to routing brokers
because they have “market access,” as defined in Rule 15c3-5(a)(1).
Exchanges and ATSs use outbound order routing services provided by broker-dealers to,
among other things, comply with the trade-through provisions of Rule 611 of Regulation NMS 65
for NMS stocks, and the trade-through provisions of Options Linkage Plan 66 for listed options,
by routing orders to better-priced quotes at away markets. Some exchanges and ATSs use
affiliated broker-dealers to perform this function, and others contract with an unaffiliated brokerdealer to do so. 67 In general, the outbound order routing service provided to exchanges by

63

See Nasdaq Letter at 4; CBOE Letter at 3; EWT Letter at 4; ConvergEx Letter at 5;
GETCO Letter at 5; letters to Elizabeth M. Murphy, Secretary, Commission, from Eric
W. Hess, General Counsel, Direct Edge Holdings, LLC, March 26, 2010 (“Direct Edge
Letter”) at 1-3; Eric J. Swanson, Senior Vice President and General Counsel, BATS
Exchange, Inc., March 21, 2010 (“BATS Letter”) at 3-4; Janet M. Kissane, Senior Vice
President – Legal and Corporate Secretary, Office of the General Counsel, NYSE
Euronext, March 29, 2010 (“NYSE Letter”) at 4-5.

64

See, e.g., GETCO Letter at 5; CBOE Letter at 3.

65

See 17 CFR 242.611. Pursuant to Rule 611 of Regulation NMS, exchanges and ATSs are
required to, among other things, establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and
procedures that are reasonably designed to prevent trade-throughs on such exchange or
ATS of protected quotations in NMS stocks. Exchanges and ATSs generally comply with
this requirement, in part, by employing an affiliated or unaffiliated broker-dealer to route
orders received by the exchange or ATS to other trading centers displaying protected
quotations.

66

The Options Linkage Plan is a Commission-approved national market system plan.
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 60405 (July 30, 2009), 74 FR 39362 (August 6,
2009) (Order Approving the National Market System Plan Relating to Options Order
Protection and Locked/Crossed Markets Submitted by the Chicago Board Options
Exchange, Incorporated, International Securities Exchange, LLC, The NASDAQ Stock
Market LLC, NASDAQ OMX BX, Inc., NASDAQ OMX PHLX, Inc., NYSE Amex
LLC, and NYSE Arca, Inc.) (“Options Linkage Plan”).

67

See, e.g., Direct Edge Letter at 2; Nasdaq Letter at 4; NYSE Letter at 4.

29

broker-dealers is regulated as a facility of the exchange, and therefore is subject to direct
Commission oversight. 68
Commenters noted that, under the proposal, orders submitted to an exchange would first
have to flow through broker-dealer systems that are subject to the financial and regulatory risk
controls required by proposed Rule 15c3-5, and suggested that requiring routing brokers to
perform the same risk checks immediately thereafter would be duplicative. 69 These commenters
suggested that subjecting routing brokers to proposed Rule 15c3-5 would impose unnecessary
costs and inefficiencies without any corresponding benefits. In addition, some commenters
argued that routing brokers would not necessarily have the requisite knowledge to effectively
implement the required pre-trade risk checks. 70
The Commission is adopting Rule 15c3-5 to include an exception for broker-dealers that
provide outbound routing services to an exchange or ATS for the sole purpose of accessing other
trading centers with protected quotations on behalf the exchange or ATS in order to comply with
Rule 611 of Regulation NMS, or a national market system plan for listed options. Under Rule
15c3-5, orders sent to an exchange or ATS for execution on that exchange or ATS are required to
be subject to broker-dealer risk management controls immediately before submission to the

68

See, e.g., The NASDAQ Stock Exchange LLC Rule 4758(b); BATS Exchange, Inc. Rule
2.11(a); and New York Stock Exchange, Inc. Rule 13. Several commenters noted that
exchange routing brokers operate as facilities of exchanges. See Nasdaq Letter at 4;
NYSE Letter at 4; Direct Edge Letter at 1. Nasdaq stated that “exchange-operated
broker-dealers are already heavily regulated as exchange facilities, including rule strictly
limiting them to a single client, the exchange itself.”

69

See Nasdaq Letter at 4; NYSE Letter at 5; BATS Letter at 4; Direct Edge Letter at 2-3;
CBOE Letter at 3; GETCO Letter at 5.

70

See Direct Edge Letter at 2; ConvergEx Letter at 5; GETCO Letter at 5; BATS Letter at
4; EWT Letter at 4.

30

exchange or ATS. 71 When providing outbound routing services to an exchange or ATS for the
sole purpose of accessing other trading centers with protected quotations on behalf the exchange
or ATS in order to comply with Rule 611 of Regulation NMS, or a national market system plan
for listed options, routing brokers necessarily would only handle orders that have just passed
through broker-dealer risk management controls subject to Proposed Rule 15c3-5. Accordingly,
the Commission believes that excepting routing brokers employed by exchanges and ATSs to
comply with Rule 611of Regulation NMS, or a national market system plan for listed options,
from the requirements of Rule 15c3-5 should serve to encourage efficient routing services for the
purpose of Regulation NMS compliance without increasing the risks associated with market
access. The Commission notes, however, that routing brokers will not be exempt from the
requirement in Rule 15c3-5(c)(1)(ii) to prevent the entry of erroneous orders, by rejecting orders
that exceed appropriate price or size parameters, on an order-by-order basis or over a short
period of time, or that indicate duplicative orders. The Commission believes that requiring
routing brokers to have controls reasonably designed to prevent the entry of erroneous or
duplicative orders should help ensure that order handling by an exchange or ATS routing broker
would not increase risk.
The Commission notes that the exception applies only to the extent a routing broker is
providing services to an exchange or ATS for the purpose of fulfilling the compliance
obligations of the exchange or ATS under Rule 611 of Regulation NMS, or a national market
system plan for listed options. Routing services of an exchange or ATS routing broker that are
71

The Commission notes that, as adopted, Rule 15c3-5 requires a broker-dealer operator of
an ATS to implement the financial and regulatory risk management controls required by
the rule with regard to non-broker-dealer subscriber’s access to its ATS. As discussed
above, with this change, Rule 15c3-5 requires all orders that enter an ATS (i.e. orders
entered by broker-dealer subscribers and non-broker-dealer subscribers) to flow through
broker-dealer risk management controls subject to the proposed rule.

31

not limited to compliance with Rule 611 of Regulation NMS may include a more complex order
routing process involving new decision-making by the routing broker that warrant imposition of
the full range of market access risk controls. Accordingly, the Commission believes that in these
circumstances the exchange or ATS routing broker should be fully subject to Rule 15c3-5. The
exception would not apply, for example, to a broker-dealer when it provides other routing
services for the exchange or ATS, such as directed routing for exchange or ATS customers. In
addition, the Commission emphasizes that this exception only applies to the requirements of
Rule 15c3-5. Accordingly, this exception would not relieve a routing broker that is a member of
an exchange of its obligation to comply with the rules of that exchange.
D.

Financial Risk Management Controls and Supervisory Procedures

Proposed Rule 15c3-5(c) would have required a broker-dealer’s risk management
controls and supervisory procedures to include certain elements. Proposed Rule 15c3-5(c)(1)
was intended to address financial risks, and would have required that the risk management
controls and supervisory procedures be reasonably designed to systematically limit the financial
exposure of the broker-dealer that could arise as a result of market access. Among other things,
the controls and procedures must be reasonably designed to: (1) prevent the entry of orders that
exceed appropriate pre-set credit or capital thresholds in the aggregate for each customer and the
broker-dealer, and where appropriate more finely-tuned by sector, security, or otherwise, by
rejecting orders if such orders exceed the applicable credit or capital thresholds; and (2) prevent
the entry of erroneous orders, by rejecting orders that exceed appropriate price or size
parameters, on an order-by-order basis or over a short period of time, or that indicate duplicative
orders.
1. Individual Trading Center Credit Limits

32

Commenters generally agreed that systematic, pre-set credit or capital thresholds applied
on a pre-trade basis are reasonable and appropriate financial risk management controls that
should be in place for market access arrangements. 72 Some commenters, however, suggested
that the Commission clarify how a broker-dealer could reasonably set credit and capital
thresholds under the proposed rule. 73 In particular, one commenter thought broker-dealers
should have the flexibility to set credit limits for customers on a market-by-market basis. 74 The
Commission believes that a broker-dealer that sets a reasonable aggregate credit limit for each
customer could satisfy Rule 15c3-5(c)(1)(i) if the broker-dealer imposes that credit limit by
setting sub-limits applied at each exchange or ATS to which the broker-dealer provides access
that, when added together, equal the aggregate credit limit. This approach, however, would
necessarily require that, when assessing the customer’s credit exposure at one market center, the
broker-dealer assume that the maximum credit limit has been reached by the customer at all
other exchanges and ATSs to which it provides access. For example, if a reasonable aggregate
credit limit for a customer is $1,000,000 and the broker-dealer provides it access to five
exchanges or ATSs, the broker-dealer may set individual market center credit limits of $200,000

72

See, e.g., Wedbush Letter at 4 (“Pre-trade filters benefit the entire industry by helping to
prevent computerized trading malfunctions….”); Lime Letter at 5 (“Real-time pre-trade,
order-placement controls are certainly a critical component to mitigate many of the risks
associated with market access.”), SIFMA Letter at 2 (“SIFMA supports the general
principle underlying the Proposal that pre-trade and post-trade controls and procedures
are appropriate in sponsored access arrangements.”), JP Morgan Letter at 2 (“We agree
with the Commission that pre-trade controls need to be applied to all orders sent under a
broker-dealer’s MPID to an exchange or ATS.”).

73

See, e.g., BIDS Letter at 3; SIFMA Letter at 8; ConvergEx Letter at 5.

74

BIDS Letter at 3 (suggesting that “it would be a reasonable procedure for a broker-dealer
to set thresholds with reference to the aggregate trading potential of such customer that is
known to the firm on a per market basis”).

33

to be applied at the market center level, but that limit could not be increased to reflect any
unused portion of the credit limits at other market centers.
2. More Finely-Tuned Credit Limits
A few commenters argued that the requirement to set finely-tuned credit or capital
thresholds, where appropriate, is unclear, and the Commission should provide more detail or
eliminate the requirement. 75 One commenter believed the requirement was vague, and expressed
concern that a broker-dealer could be found to have violated the proposed rule if it did not finelytune its credit or capital thresholds. 76 Another commenter thought the requirement is unclear,
and questioned the need for it in light of an aggregate credit or capital threshold. 77 In contrast,
one commenter agreed with the proposed rule that “an aggregate exposure threshold should be
required for each account and, where appropriate, for specific industry sectors and/or
securities.” 78 Rule 15c3-5(c)(1)(i), the provision addressing more finely-tuned credit or capital
thresholds, where appropriate, is intended to provide a broker-dealer flexibility in setting its
credit and capital threshold consistent with the broker-dealer’s business model and the goals of
the Rule. A broker-dealer should assess its business and its customers to determine if it is
appropriate to establish more tailored credit or capital limits by sector, security, or otherwise.
This underscores the reasonable policies and procedures approach of the Rule and the

75

See, e.g., ITG Letter at 8; Deutsche Bank Letter at 3.

76

Deutsche Bank Letter at 3.

77

ITG Letter at 8.

78

Goldman Letter at 6.

34

Commission’s recognition that a “one-size-fits-all” model for risk management controls and
supervisory procedures in connection with market access is not appropriate. 79
3. Reasonable Models for Credit or Capital Exposure of Outstanding Orders
Several commenters suggested more flexibility with respect to the proposed pre-order
entry financial risk management controls in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of the Rule. One commenter
suggested that the controls be applied on a rolling intra-day or post-close basis, with compliance
being calculated based on executed orders rather than orders routed but not yet executed. 80 In
other words, a broker-dealer’s controls would block the routing of additional orders and cancel
any open orders only after the execution of orders exceeding the applicable credit or capital limit
had occurred. Other commenters suggested additional variations on the proposed approach to
compliance with credit and capital thresholds so as to reduce the potential impact on liquidity. 81
For example, commenters suggested that an algorithmic approach to determining the credit and
capital threshold would be preferable. 82 One commenter suggested that the Commission should
require “real-time trade flow controls which incorporate an algorithmic approach to resting

79

See ABA Letter at 5 (requesting that the Commission clearly state that the proposed
“reasonably designed” standard is not meant to be a one-size-fits-all test that would
unreasonably burden smaller broker-dealers).

80

Goldman Letter at 6.

81

Deutsche Bank Letter at 3 (suggesting that the Commission replace the pre-trade credit
threshold with a threshold based on the total dollar value of open orders placed by a
customer); STANY Letter at 5-6; letter to Elizabeth M. Murphy, Secretary, Commission,
from Ted Myerson, Chief Executive Officer, Doug Kittelsen, Chief Technology Officer,
and M. Gary LaFever, General Counsel, FTEN, Inc., March 29, 2010 (“FTEN Letter”) at
4.

82

STANY Letter at 5-6; FTEN Letter at 4.

35

orders, executions and cancellation rates in order to accomplish desired improvements in
systemic risk management without adversely impacting liquidity in the marketplace.” 83
In the Proposing Release, the Commission stated that “because financial exposure
through rapid order entry can be incurred very quickly in today’s fast electronic markets,
controls should measure compliance with appropriate credit or capital thresholds on the basis of
orders entered rather than executions obtained.” 84 The Commission continues to believe that
broker-dealers should monitor compliance with applicable credit or capital thresholds based on
orders entered, including the potential financial exposure resulting from open orders not yet
executed. The Commission recognizes, however, that some active trading strategies predictably
result in executions for only a small percentage of orders entered, and that requiring brokerdealers to assume that every order entered will be executed will, in some cases, significantly
overestimate actual credit or capital exposures. Accordingly, the Commission believes that,
while the reasonably designed risk management controls contemplated by Rule 15c3-5 should
measure compliance based on orders entered, the credit or capital exposure assigned to those
orders may be discounted, where appropriate, to account for the likelihood of actual execution as
demonstrated by reasonable risk management models. Any broker-dealer relying on risk
management models to discount the exposure of outstanding orders should monitor the accuracy
of its models on an ongoing basis and make appropriate adjustments to its method of calculating
credit or capital exposures as warranted. Broker-dealers providing market access also may wish
to establish “early warning” mechanisms to alert them when the applicable credit or capital
83

FTEN Letter at 4. See also STANY Letter at 5 (stating that “an analysis of the likelihood
of an infraction occurring within the overall setting of the orders, executions and
cancellation rates… would result in desired improvements in systemic risk controls
without adversely impacting liquidity in the marketplace.”).

84

Proposing Release, 75 FR at 4013.

36

threshold is being approached, so that additional steps may be taken to assure the threshold is not
breached.
4. Duplicative Orders
A few commenters expressed concern regarding the requirement in Proposed Rule 15c35(c)(1)(ii) that a broker-dealer have controls and procedures reasonably designed to prevent the
entry of orders that indicate duplicative orders. One commenter noted that this aspect of the
proposal could create operational difficulties in determining how to set the risk management
parameters, and requested that the Commission either eliminate this requirement from the rule or
clarify that a broker-dealer could apply reasonable standards to detect duplicative orders based
on the activity of its customers. 85 Another commenter noted the difficulties in setting parameters
to detect duplicative orders and suggested the Commission allow for flexibility in setting
parameters so as not to disadvantage clients by rejecting orders that are not in fact duplicative. 86
The Commission emphasizes that the controls and procedures must be “reasonably designed” to
prevent the entry of erroneous orders, including duplicative orders, which allows broker-dealers
some flexibility in crafting them, so long as they are reasonably designed to achieve the stated
goal. Among other things, the Commission believes broker-dealers should take into account the
type of customer as well as the customer’s trading patterns and order entry history in determining
how to set such parameters. 87
5. Rule 15c3-5(c)(1)

85

NYSE Letter at 2.

86

SIFMA Letter at 9.

87

For example, a reasonably designed risk control to prevent the entry of duplicative orders
for a high frequency trader may very well be different – in particular, more tolerant –
than controls designed to perform the same function for individual investors at a retail
brokerage firm.

37

The Commission is adopting Rule 15c3-5(c)(1) as proposed. The Commission believes
that, in today’s fast electronic markets, effective controls with respect to financial risk incurred
on exchanges and ATSs must be automated and applied on a pre-trade basis. These pre-trade
controls should protect broker-dealers providing market access, as well as their customers and
other market participants, by blocking orders that do not comply with applicable risk
management controls from being routed to a securities market. As noted above, there is
flexibility for the specific parameters of the controls and procedures to vary from broker-dealer
to broker-dealer, depending on the nature of the business and customer base, so long as they are
reasonably designed to achieve the goals articulated in the Rule. In many cases, particularly with
respect to proprietary trading and more traditional agency brokerage activities, the Rule may be
substantially satisfied by existing financial risk management controls and supervisory procedures
already implemented by broker-dealers. However, the Commission believes that the Rule should
help to assure that a consistent standard applies to all broker-dealers providing any type of
market access and, importantly, will address the serious gap that exists with those broker-dealers
that today offer “unfiltered” sponsored access.
Under Rule 15c3-5(c)(1)(i), the broker-dealer’s controls and procedures must be
reasonably designed to prevent the entry of orders that exceed appropriate pre-set credit or
capital thresholds in the aggregate for each customer and the broker-dealer, and where
appropriate more finely-tuned by sector, security, or otherwise, by rejecting orders if such orders
exceed the applicable credit or capital thresholds. Under this provision, a broker-dealer will be
required to set appropriate credit thresholds for each customer for which it provides market

38

access, including broker-dealer customers, 88 and appropriate capital thresholds for proprietary
trading by the broker-dealer itself. The Commission expects broker-dealers will make such
determinations based on appropriate due diligence as to the customer’s business, financial
condition, trading patterns, and other matters, and document that decision. In addition, the
Commission expects the broker-dealer will monitor on an ongoing basis whether the credit
thresholds remain appropriate, and promptly make adjustments to them, and its controls and
procedures, as warranted.
In addition, because the controls and procedures must be reasonably designed to prevent
the entry of orders that exceed the applicable credit or capital thresholds by rejecting them, the
broker-dealer’s controls must be applied on an automated, pre-trade basis, before orders are
routed to the exchange or ATS. Furthermore, because the risk management controls and
supervisory procedures should be designed such that rejection must occur if such orders would
exceed the applicable credit or capital thresholds, the broker-dealer must assess compliance with
the applicable threshold on the basis of exposure from orders entered on an exchange or ATS,
rather than relying on a post-execution, after-the-fact determination. Because financial exposure
through rapid order entry can be incurred very quickly in today’s fast electronic markets,
controls should measure compliance with appropriate credit or capital thresholds on the basis of
orders entered rather than executions obtained. As noted above, however, in appropriate cases
reasonable risk management models may be used to discount the credit or capital exposure
generated by outstanding but unexecuted orders.

88

The broker-dealer providing market access may also wish to supplement the overall
credit limit it places on the activity of its broker-dealer customers with assurances from
those broker-dealer customers that they have implemented controls reasonably designed
to assure that trading by their individual customers remains within appropriate pre-set
credit thresholds.

39

Under Rule 15c3-5(c)(1)(ii), the broker-dealer’s controls and procedures must be
reasonably designed to prevent the entry of erroneous orders, by rejecting orders that exceed
appropriate price or size parameters, on an order-by-order basis or over a short period of time, or
that indicate duplicative orders. Given the prevalence today of high-speed automated trading
algorithms and other technology, and the fact that malfunctions periodically occur with those
systems, the Commission believes that broker-dealer risk management controls should be
reasonably designed to detect malfunctions and prevent orders from erroneously being entered as
a result, and that identifying and blocking erroneously entered orders on an order-by-order basis
or over a short period of time would accomplish this. These controls also should be reasonably
designed to prevent orders from being entered erroneously as a result of manual errors (e.g.,
erroneously entering a buy order of 2,000 shares at $2.00 as a buy order of 2 shares at
$2,000.00). For example, a systematic, pre-trade control reasonably designed to reject orders
that are not reasonably related to the quoted price of the security would help prevent
erroneously-entered orders from reaching the market. 89 As with the financial risk management
controls and supervisory procedures relating to credit or capital thresholds, the broker-dealer also
would be required to monitor on a regular basis whether its controls and procedures are effective
in preventing the entry of erroneous orders, and promptly make adjustments to them as
warranted.
The Commission emphasizes that the financial risk management controls and supervisory
procedures described in Rule 15c3-5(c) should not be viewed as a comprehensive list of those
that should be utilized by broker-dealers. Instead, the Rule simply sets a uniform baseline

89

In this regard, the Commission notes that some markets provide price collars for market
orders to help ensure that executions are reasonably related to the quoted price. See e.g.
NYSE Arca Rule 7.31(a) and Nasdaq Rule 4751.

40

standard for the types of financial risk management controls and supervisory procedures that a
broker-dealer with market access should implement. A broker-dealer may, for a variety of
reasons, implement financial risk management controls and supervisory procedures above and
beyond those specifically described in the Rule, depending on the nature of its business,
customer base, and other specific circumstances.
E.

Regulatory Risk Management Controls and Supervisory Procedures

As noted above, Proposed Rule 15c3-5(c) requires a broker-dealer’s risk management
controls and supervisory procedures to include certain elements. Proposed Rule 15c3-5(c)(2)
deals with regulatory compliance risk, and requires that the risk management controls and
supervisory procedures be reasonably designed to ensure compliance with all regulatory
requirements that are applicable in connection with market access, including being reasonably
designed to: (1) prevent the entry of orders unless there has been compliance with all regulatory
requirements that must be satisfied on a pre-order entry basis; (2) prevent the entry of orders for
securities that the broker-dealer, customer, or other person, as applicable, is restricted from
trading; (3) restrict access to trading systems and technology that provide market access to
persons and accounts pre-approved and authorized by the broker-dealer; (4) assure that
appropriate surveillance personnel receive immediate post-trade execution reports that result
from market access.
Several commenters were concerned with the scope of the Rule, particularly to the extent
it requires controls and procedures reasonably designed to ensure compliance with all regulatory
requirements applicable in connection with market access. 90 These commenters requested that
the Commission clarify that the proposed rule would not impose new regulatory obligations on

90

ConvergEx Letter at 6; SIFMA Letter at 6; ITG Letter at 4.

41

broker-dealers that provide access to trading on an exchange or ATS. 91 The Commission notes
that, as stated in the Proposing Release, it intends these controls and procedures to encompass
existing regulatory requirements applicable to broker-dealers in connection with market access,
and does not intend to substantively expand upon them. 92 The Commission also notes that the
defined term “regulatory requirements” is limited to those “that are applicable in connection with
market access.” Accordingly, the regulatory risk management controls and supervisory
procedures required under Rule 15c3-5(c)(2) must address those regulatory requirements that
flow from a broker-dealer having or providing access to trading securities on an exchange or
ATS. 93
In addition, commenters requested that the Commission specify which regulatory
requirements must be satisfied on a pre-trade basis. 94 Certain provisions of Proposed Rule 15c35(c)(2) require the broker-dealer to “prevent the entry of orders” under certain circumstances,
91

ConvergEx Letter at 6 (stating that the Commission should “make clear that any controls
be reasonably designed to ensure that the Market Access Broker complies with its
regulatory obligations and not that such controls are required to make the Market Access
Broker assume responsibility for preventing violative activity by a Sponsored Broker.”);
SIFMA Letter at 6 (stating that the Commission should clarify “that broker-dealers
providing market access would not be liable for regulatory requirements that are only
tangentially related to accessing the market, such as margin requirements, or violative
behavior that depends on the intent of the sponsored customer.”).

92

The specific content of the “regulatory requirements” will, of course, adjust over time as
laws, rules and regulations are modified.

93

Regulatory requirements not connected with a broker-dealer’s having or providing access
to trading securities on an exchange or ATS, as a result of being a member or subscriber
thereof, are not included within the scope of the Rule. Although a broad range of
regulatory requirements may, to varying degrees, be connected to market access, the
Commission would not expect broker-dealers, in response to the Rule, to formally
reassess their compliance procedures with respect to rules such as those relating to
trading in the over-the-counter market (other than on an ATS) or those relating to the
delivery of customer account statements. The Commission emphasizes that, as indicated
above, the Rule is intended neither to expand nor diminish the underlying substantive
regulatory requirements otherwise applicable to broker-dealers.

94

ITG Letter at 4; SIFMA Letter 6.

42

which would necessarily require the broker-dealer to implement its controls on a pre-trade basis.
Specifically, Proposed Rule 15c3-5(c)(2)(i) requires the broker-dealer’s controls be reasonably
designed to prevent the entry of orders unless there has been compliance with all regulatory
requirements that must be satisfied on a pre-order entry basis. In addition, Proposed Rule15c35(c)(2)(ii) would require the broker-dealer’s controls to be reasonably designed to prevent the
entry of orders for securities that the broker-dealer, customer, or other person, as applicable, is
restricted from trading. Regulatory requirements that must be satisfied on a pre-trade basis are
those requirements that can effectively be complied with only before an order is entered on an
exchange or ATS. Those where pre-trade compliance is required on an order-by-order basis
include the marking and locate requirements of Regulation SHO, the conditions that must be
satisfied under Regulation NMS before an order can be marked an “intermarket sweep order,”
various exchange rules applicable to particular order types, and compliance with trading halts.
Some commenters also noted that certain regulatory obligations are complied with on a posttrade basis, such as surveillance for fraud and manipulation. 95 Whether compliance is pre-trade
or post-trade, however, Proposed Rule 15c3-5(c)(2) would not impose new substantive
regulatory requirements on the broker-dealer, but rather establish a clear requirement that the
broker-dealer have appropriate mechanisms in place that are reasonably designed to effectively
comply with its existing regulatory obligations in an automated high-speed trading environment.
In addition, several commenters asked the Commission to clarify that Rule 15c3-5 does
not require broker-dealers to substantially change their existing monitoring or surveillance
practices in order to comply with the Rule. 96 While the Commission is not in a position to
provide broad assurances in this regard, it believes that in many cases the Rule should reinforce
95

ConvergEx Letter at 6; SIFMA Letter 6; ITG Letter at 4.

96

Goldman Letter at 6; Deutsche Bank Letter at 4; SIFMA Letter at 7.

43

existing regulatory risk management controls already implemented by broker-dealers. Brokerdealers providing market access should review their regulatory risk management controls in light
of the Rule, and make adjustments, as appropriate.
In this regard, some commenters requested that the Commission clarify how the proposed
rule’s requirement to assure that appropriate surveillance personnel receive immediate post-trade
execution reports that result from market access would affect a broker-dealer’s surveillance
procedures. 97 The Commission notes that the requirement in Rule 15c3-5 that the broker-dealer
providing market access receive immediate post-trade execution reports is designed to assure the
broker-dealer has the information immediately available to effectively control both its financial
and regulatory risks. This provision does not require, however, that post-trade surveillances for
manipulation, fraud, and other matters occur immediately. These surveillances should occur in a
timely fashion as warranted by the facts and circumstances.
A few commenters were concerned with the confidentiality of trading information
received by a broker-dealer as a result of the Rule’s requirements. 98 The Commission notes that
the Rule requires only that appropriate surveillance personnel of the broker-dealer providing
market access receive the immediate post-trade execution reports. In this regard, the
Commission expects that broker-dealers will establish appropriate safeguards to assure that
customer trading information is kept confidential and available only to appropriate personnel for
regulatory compliance purposes. The Commission notes that Section 15(f) of the Exchange Act
requires broker-dealers registered with the Commission to establish, maintain, and enforce written
policies and procedures reasonably designed, taking into consideration the nature of such broker97

Deutsche Bank Letter at 4.

98

MFA Letter at 2-3; BIDS Letter at 3-4; STANY Letter at 7; letter to Elizabeth M.
Murphy, Secretary, Commission, from Ari Burstein, Senior Counsel, Investment
Company Institute, March 29, 2010 (“ICI Letter”) at 2-3.

44

dealer’s business, to prevent the misuse in violation of the Exchange Act, or the rules or regulations
thereunder, of material, nonpublic information by the broker-dealer or any person associated with
it. 99 A broker-dealer that does not maintain appropriate confidentiality of customer order and

trading information could potentially be at risk of violating the federal securities laws and
regulations, including Section 15(f) of the Exchange Act. 100
The Commission is adopting Rule 15c3-5(c)(2) as proposed. As stated in the Proposing
Release, the Commission intends these controls and procedures to encompass existing regulatory
requirements applicable to broker-dealers in connection with market access, and not to
substantively expand upon them. 101 As with the financial risk management controls and
supervisory procedures, this provision will allow flexibility for the details of the regulatory risk
management controls and procedures to vary from broker-dealer to broker-dealer, depending on
the nature of the business and customer base, so long as they are reasonably designed to achieve
the goals articulated in the Rule. In many cases, particularly with respect to proprietary trading
and more traditional agency brokerage activities, the Rule should reinforce existing regulatory
risk management controls already implemented by broker-dealers. However, the Commission
believes that the Rule will assure a consistent standard applies to all broker-dealers providing any

99

15 U.S.C 78o(f).

100

Id. See, e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release No. 59555, Admin. Proceeding No. 313407 (March 11, 2009) (finding that Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated (“Merrill Lynch”) violated Section 15(f) of the Exchange Act by failing to
maintain and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed, taking into
consideration the nature of its business, to prevent misuse, in violation of the federal
securities laws, of material, nonpublic information by Merrill Lynch or any person
associated with it, which allowed certain day traders to trade ahead of customer orders to
the detriment of Merril Lynch’s institutional customer).

101

The specific content of the “regulatory requirements” will, of course, adjust over time as
laws, rules and regulations are modified.

45

type of market access and, importantly, will address the serious gap that exists with those brokerdealers that today offer “unfiltered” sponsored access.
Under Rule 15c3-5(c)(2)(i), the broker-dealer’s controls and procedures must be
reasonably designed to prevent the entry of orders unless there has been compliance with all
regulatory requirements that must be satisfied on a pre-order entry basis. Rule 15c3-5(c)(2)(ii)
also will require the broker-dealer’s controls and procedures to prevent the entry of orders for
securities that the broker-dealer, customer, or other person, as applicable, is restricted from
trading.
The Commission notes that, by requiring the regulatory risk management controls and
procedures to be reasonably designed to prevent the entry of orders that fail to comply with
regulatory requirements that apply on a pre-order entry basis, the Rule would have the effect of
requiring the broker-dealer’s controls be applied on an automated, pre-trade basis, before orders
route to the exchange or ATS. These pre-trade, system-driven controls would therefore be
reasonably designed to prevent orders from being sent to the securities markets, if such orders
fail to meet certain conditions. The pre-trade controls must, for example, be reasonably designed
to assure compliance with exchange trading rules relating to special order types, trading halts,
odd-lot orders, SEC rules under Regulation SHO and Regulation NMS. 102 They also must be

102

The Commission notes that Exchange Act Rule 203(b)(2)(i) provides an exception from
the uniform locate requirement of Exchange Act Rule 203(b)(1) for a registered broker or
dealer that receives a short sale order from another registered broker or dealer that is
required to comply with Exchange Act Rule 203(b)(1). For example, where an
introducing broker-dealer submits a short sale order for execution, either on a principal or
agency basis, to another broker-dealer, the introducing broker-dealer has the
responsibility of complying with the locate requirement. The broker-dealer that received
the order from the introducing broker-dealer would not be required to perform the locate
requirement. However, a broker or dealer would be required to perform a locate where it
contractually undertook to do so or the short sale order came from a person that is not a
46

reasonably designed to prevent the broker-dealer or customer or other person from entering
orders for securities it is restricted from trading. For example, if the broker-dealer is restricted
from trading options because it is not qualified to trade options, its regulatory risk management
controls must be reasonably designed to automatically prevent it from entering orders in options,
either for its own account or as agent for a customer. In addition, if a broker-dealer is obligated
to restrict a customer from trading in a particular security, then the broker-dealer’s controls and
procedures must be reasonably designed to prevent orders in such security from being submitted
to an exchange or ATS for the account of that customer.
Under Rule 15c3-5(c)(2)(iii), the broker-dealer’s controls and procedures also must be
reasonably designed to restrict access to trading systems and technology that provide market
access to persons and accounts pre-approved and authorized by the broker-dealer. The
Commission believes that reasonably designed, effective security procedures such as these are
necessary for controlling the risks associated with market access. The Commission expects that
elements of these controls and procedures would include: (1) an effective process for vetting and
approving persons at the broker-dealer or customer, as applicable, who will be permitted to use
the trading systems or other technology; (2) maintaining such trading systems or technology in a
physically secure manner; and (3) restricting access to such trading systems or technology
through effective mechanisms that validate identity. Among other things, effective security
procedures help assure that only authorized, appropriately-trained personnel have access to a
broker-dealer’s trading systems, thereby minimizing the risk that order entry errors or other
inappropriate or malicious trading activity might occur.

registered broker-dealer. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 50103 (July 28,
2004), 69 FR 48008, 48015 (August 6, 2004) (File No. S7-23-03).

47

Finally, Rule 15c3-5(c)(2)(iv) will require the broker-dealer’s controls and procedures to
assure that appropriate surveillance personnel receive immediate post-trade execution reports
that result from market access. Among other things, the Commission expects that broker-dealers
will be able to identify the applicable customer associated with each such execution report. The
Commission believes that immediate reports of executions will provide surveillance personnel
with important information about potential regulatory violations, and better enable them to
investigate, report, or halt suspicious or manipulative trading activity. In addition, these
immediate execution reports should provide the broker-dealer with more definitive data
regarding the financial exposure faced by it at a given point in time. This should provide a
valuable supplement to the systematic pre-trade risk controls and other supervisory procedures
required by the Rule. As noted above, this provision does not require that post-trade
surveillances for manipulation, fraud, and other matters occur immediately. These surveillances
should occur in a timely fashion as warranted by the facts and circumstances.
F.

Direct and Exclusive Broker-Dealer Control Over Financial and Regulatory
Risk Management Controls and Supervisory Procedures

Proposed Rule 15c3-5(d) would require the financial and regulatory risk management
controls and supervisory procedures described above to be under the direct and exclusive control
of the broker-dealer that is subject to paragraph (b) of the proposed rule. Several commenters
requested that the Commission clarify what constitutes “direct and exclusive” control under Rule
15c3-5(d). This provision is designed to eliminate the practice, which the Commission
understands exists today under current SRO rules, whereby the broker-dealer providing market
access relies on its customer, a third party service provider, or others, to establish and maintain
the applicable risk controls. Under the proposal, appropriate broker-dealer personnel should be
able to directly monitor the operation of the financial and regulatory risk management controls in

48

real-time. Broker-dealers would have the flexibility to seek out risk management technology and
software developed by third parties, but such technology and software would have to be
independent of the market access customer or its affiliates. The broker-dealer would have to
perform appropriate due diligence to assure that the reasonably designed controls and procedures
are effective and otherwise consistent with the provisions of the Rule. The broker-dealer also
could allow a third-party that is independent of its market access customers to supplement its
own monitoring of the operation of its controls. In addition, the broker-dealer could permit third
parties independent of its market access customers to perform routine maintenance or implement
technology upgrades on its risk management controls, if the broker-dealer conducts appropriate
due diligence regarding any changes to such controls and their implementation. In all
circumstances, the broker-dealer with market access would remain fully responsible for the
effectiveness of the risk management controls.
The Commission believes that, subject to the limited exception described below,
appropriate broker-dealer personnel must have the direct and exclusive obligation to assure the
effectiveness of, and the direct and exclusive ability to make appropriate adjustments to, the
reasonably designed financial and regulatory risk management controls. This would allow only
the broker-dealer providing market access to make, for example, intra-day adjustments to risk
management controls to appropriately manage a customer’s credit limit. The Commission
expects that, by requiring the financial and regulatory risk management controls and supervisory
procedures to be under the direct and exclusive control of the broker or dealer, any changes
would be made only by appropriate broker-dealer personnel. Accordingly, the broker-dealer
with market access could not delegate the oversight of, or power to adjust, its controls to a third
party.

49

The broker-dealer with market access, as the member of the exchange or subscriber of the
ATS, is responsible for all trading that occurs under its MPID or other market identifier. 103 If the
broker-dealer does not effectively control the risks associated with that activity, it jeopardizes not
only its own financial viability, but also the stability of the markets and, potentially, the financial
system. The Commission believes this responsibility is too great to allow the requisite risk
management controls to be controlled by a third party, and in particular a market access customer
which, in effect, would be policing itself. Because the broker-dealer providing market access
assumes the immediate financial risks of all orders, as well as regulatory compliance obligations,
the Commission believes that it should have direct and exclusive control of the risk management
controls and supervisory procedures.
1. Allocation of Certain Regulatory Compliance Obligations to Broker-Dealer
Customers
Proposed Rule 15c3-5(d) would require broker-dealers with or providing market access
to have direct and exclusive control of the specified risk management controls and supervisory
procedures. In the Proposing Release, the Commission stated that “by requiring the financial and
regulatory risk management controls and supervisory procedures be under the direct and
exclusive control of the broker or dealer, any changes would be made only by appropriate
broker-dealer personnel …. Accordingly, the broker-dealer could not delegate the oversight of its
controls to a third party, or allow any third party to adjust them.” 104 The Commission
specifically requested comment on whether a market access arrangement where a broker-dealer
provided another broker-dealer with market access should be treated differently under the rule

103

See supra note 8.

104

Proposing Release, 75 FR at 4015.

50

and whether an allocation of responsibilities for implementing the risk management controls and
supervisory procedures between such broker-dealers should be permitted.
Several commenters responded to the Commission’s request for comments on this
particular matter, and most supported some form of allocation of the required risk management
controls and supervisory procedures among broker-dealers where multiple broker-dealers are
involved in a market access arrangement. 105 Other commenters did not address the issue of
allocation specifically, but emphasized that the broker-dealer with market access should be
ultimately and fully responsible for activity that results from the use of its MPID, even if its
market access customer is another broker-dealer. 106
A few commenters specifically noted that it is commonplace in today’s marketplace for
market access arrangements to consist of multiple broker-dealers. 107 For instance, one
commenter noted that today multiple broker-dealers can be involved in market access
arrangements, such as where:


an introducing broker-dealer routes customer orders to an exchange through the
market access broker-dealer and clears through a separate clearing broker;

105

See Fortis Letter at 5; EWT Letter at 1; Deutsche Bank Letter at 2; Wedbush Letter at 2;
GETCO Letter at 4-5 ; STANY Letter at 3; ABA Letter at 3-4; ConvergEx Letter at 4-8;
SIFMA Letter; JP Morgan Letter at 4; Pershing Letter at 1-3; Penson Letter at 1-2; Lime
Letter at 3-4; letters to Elizabeth M. Murphy, Secretary, Commission, from Sandor G.
Lehoczky, Managing Director, Jane Street Holding, LLC, March 29, 2010 (“Jane Street
Letter”) at 1; David A. Marshall, Senior Vice President, Financial Markets Group,
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, March 25, 2010 (“FRB Chicago Letter”) at 4; letter to
Mary L. Schapiro, Chairman, Commission, from Kenny Marchant, Randy Neugebauer,
and Pete Sessions, Members of Congress, August 11, 2010 at 1 (“Marchant Letter”).

106

FINRA Letter at 2; NYSE Letter at 2.

107

See e.g., SIFMA Letter at 3; ConvergEx Letter at 3; CBOE Letter at 2; EWT Letter at 3;
Marchant Letter at 1.

51



a clearing broker provides order entry systems to introducing firms for use by the
introducing firm’s customers;



an executing broker uses a market access broker-dealer to access an ATS and clears
the trade through a separate prime broker; and



a broker-dealer uses another broker-dealer for access to exchanges of which it is not a
member. 108

These commenters urged the Commission to permit the broker-dealer with market access to
allocate some or all of the required risk management controls and supervisory procedures to
other broker-dealers that are part of the market access arrangement. 109
In addition, several commenters noted that the concept of broker-dealer allocation of
regulatory functions is embedded within the current regulatory framework. 110 The examples
most often cited by the commenters were NYSE Rule 382 and NASD Rule 3230, 111 and
Regulation SHO. 112 Some commenters believed that NYSE Rule 382 and NASD Rule 3230

108

See SIFMA Letter at 3.

109

See e.g., FINRA Letter at 4; ConvergEx Letter at 4-8; CBOE Letter at 3; EWT Letter at
3-4.

110

Pershing Letter at 2-3; Penson Letter at 2; STANY Letter at 3; Wedbush Letter at 2;
Deutsche Bank Letter at 2-3; EWT Letter at 3; SIFMA Letter at 4.

111

NYSE Rule 382 and NASD Rule 3230, relating to Carrying Agreements, permit the
introducing broker or dealer and the clearing broker or dealer, pursuant to a written
agreement, to specifically allocate functions and responsibilities between the parties.
These rules require that such agreements specifically account for the following functions:
(1) opening, approving and monitoring of accounts, (2) extension of credit, (3)
maintenance of books and records, (4) receipt and delivery of funds and securities, (5)
safeguarding of funds and securities, (6) confirmations and statements and (7) acceptance
of orders and execution of transactions.

112

The Commission notes that Regulation SHO provides an exception from the uniform
locate requirement for a registered broker or dealer that receives a short sale order from
another registered broker or dealer that is required to comply with Exchange Act Rule
203(b)(1). See supra note 102.

52

currently provide an efficient mechanism for the allocation of functions to the party best situated
to ensure compliance with a particular regulatory requirement. 113 In light of these rules, some
commenters suggested that the proposed Rule’s requirement that the broker-dealer with market
access have direct and exclusive control of the risk management controls and supervisory
procedures, without providing for the reasonable allocation of the same, would be inconsistent or
in tension with currently accepted broker-dealer practices and current SRO and SEC rules. 114
Several commenters emphasized that the relative positions of the broker-dealers in a
market access arrangement would impact the efficacy of the risk management control or
supervisory procedure used to reasonably ensure a particular regulatory requirement. For
instance, some commenters stressed that an introducing broker would be best situated to
implement the pre-trade controls required by the Rule because the introducing broker, by virtue
of its direct relationship with the ultimate customer, would have the critical customer information
necessary for compliance. 115 Based on a similar rationale, some commenters stated that the
introducing broker would be better situated to identify scienter-based violations such as markingthe-close, wash sales, or other forms of manipulation. 116
These commenters generally endorsed an allocation model similar to NYSE Rule 382 and
NASD Rule 3230 that would permit the broker-dealers engaging in the market access
arrangement to contractually allocate specific risk management controls and supervisory
procedures based on which firm was better situated to perform the particular control or

113

Pershing Letter at 3; Lime Letter at 4.

114

See, e.g., Pershing Letter at 2-3; Wedbush Letter at 2; ConvergEx Letter at 10-11.

115

BATS Letter at 3; ConvergEx Letter at 5; EWT Letter at 3; CBOE Letter at 3.

116

See e.g., ConvergEx at 7.

53

procedure. 117 However, other commenters suggested that the Commission take a more
prescriptive approach and specify the particular functions that potentially could be allocated
between broker-dealers in a market access arrangement. 118
Some commenters offered additional arguments in support of the allocation of risk
management controls and supervisory procedures among broker-dealers. One commenter
suggested that the allocation of risk management controls and supervisory procedures would be
appropriate because a broker-dealer using the MPID of another broker-dealer with market access
would be a regulated entity whose trading activity would be identifiable and referable to the
applicable SRO. 119 Other commenters believed that, while the allocation of risk management
controls and supervisory procedures between broker-dealers should be permitted, the ultimate
responsibility for compliance with the market access rule and any applicable regulatory
requirements should remain with the broker-dealer with market access. 120
Some commenters opined that where a broker-dealer provides access to another brokerdealer, the broker-dealer with market access should be able to reasonably rely upon the
representations of the introducing broker that appropriate risk management controls and
117

SIFMA Letter at 4; EWT Letter at 3; Pershing Letter at 1-3; Lime Letter at 4; Fortis
Letter at 5; Wedbush Letter at 2, Deutsche Bank Letter at 2; GETCO Letter 4-5; STANY
Letter at 3. See also ITG Letter at 6.

118

JP Morgan Letter at 2-4; FRB Chicago Letter at 4; letter to Elizabeth M. Murphy,
Secretary, Commission, from Douglas J. Engmann, President, and C. Mark Bold, Senior
Advisor, Engmann Options, Inc., March 16, 2010 (“Engmann Letter”) at 2.

119

See Penson Letter at 2.

120

SIFMA Letter at 4; Fortis Letter at 5. Fortis believed that “it is a broadly accepted
principle of regulation that whilst performance of an obligation may be delegated,
responsibility for that obligation cannot. Therefore it should be possible to delegate to a
third party, including a client broker/dealer, all operational aspects of compliance with
the proposed rules but not the ultimate responsibility for compliance with the proposed
rules. In practice this should mean that the party to whom the rules apply directly must
have procedures and monitoring in place on an ongoing basis to ensure that the proposed
rules are followed.” See also Lime Letter at 2-3; FINRA Letter at 2.

54

supervisory procedures are in place. 121 One commenter specifically noted that a broker-dealer
with access should not be able to ignore “obvious red flags,” but should be able to otherwise
reasonably rely on an introducing broker to comply with its obligations to “supervise its business
and conduct of its customers.” 122
Some commenters suggested that the reasonable reliance of the broker-dealer with
market access should be based in part on its own policies and procedures that would ascertain the
effectiveness of the risk management controls and supervisory procedures. 123 For instance, one
commenter stated the broker-dealer with market access should have procedures to support its
reasonable reliance, including representations and warranties from the broker-dealer that has
been allocated the risk management controls and supervisory procedures. 124 Another commenter
agreed that the broker-dealer with market access should have procedures to ensure compliance
with the Rule. 125 Another commenter suggested the introducing broker take responsibility for
monitoring and managing the credit and capital thresholds of its customer. 126
Three commenters, all SROs, indicated that broker-dealers with market access are
already required to have supervisory policies related to orders generated as a result of market
access. 127 FINRA asserted that it had “consistently taken the view that, under FINRA rules, a
firm providing market access to a third party, including another broker-dealer, or otherwise
allowing a third party to use the firm’s [MPID] is responsible for the trading conducted pursuant
121

See SIFMA Letter at 4; Pershing Letter at 2; Penson Letter at 2.

122

Pershing Letter at 3.

123

See Lime Letter at 3; Fortis Letter at 5; SIFMA Letter at 4.

124

See SIFMA Letter at 4.

125

See Fortis Letter at 5. See also Lime Letter at 4.

126

GETCO Letter 4-5.

127

FINRA Letter at 2; BATS Letter at 2-3; Nasdaq Letter at 2.

55

to that relationship. Thus, for example, under NASD Rules 3010 and 3012, as well as
Incorporated NYSE Rule 342, a member must control, monitor and supervise all orders for
which it is the broker of record, including orders entered by customers through market access
arrangements with the member. Members providing market access to customers must also have
controls and supervisory procedures in place that are reasonably designed to ensure compliance
with applicable regulatory requirements.” 128
FINRA also stated its belief that both the broker-dealer with market access and the
broker-dealer being provided market access should retain the respective, independent obligations
that would exist if they accessed the market directly. 129 FINRA explained that the independent
regulatory obligations of a broker-dealer that is provided market access should not alter the fact
that the broker-dealer with market access is responsible for trading conducted using its MPID. 130
NYSE expressed a view similar to FINRA that a broker-dealer with market access should
be subject to the Rule with respect to all of its market access customers, including other brokerdealers. 131 NYSE also noted that the concerns identified by the Commission in connection with
market access arrangements are just as relevant for broker-dealer customers as for other types of
market participants. 132 In addition, NYSE explained that because each exchange is responsible
for monitoring orders submitted by its member firms, and exchanges must be able to hold a
specific party responsible for compliance with applicable exchange rules on each order, it would
be impractical for the exchange to have to determine the regulatory status of the underlying

128

FINRA Letter at 2.

129

FINRA Letter at 2.

130

FINRA Letter at 2.

131

NYSE Letter at 2.

132

NYSE Letter at 2.

56

market participant to discern whether the exchange is required to follow up with the brokerdealer with market access or the underlying broker-dealer customer. 133 NYSE stated that this
inefficiency would be amplified if an exchange had to determine whether or not the brokerdealer customer was itself a member of the exchange. 134
One commenter, however, took the position that a broker-dealer with market access
should have no obligations to supervise another broker-dealer with which it has a contractual
relationship under NYSE 342(a) and NASD 3010(b). 135 This is because the broker-dealer with
market access would not know the customers of the introducing broker, and therefore would not
be able to devise supervisory systems reasonably designed to ensure compliance with the
applicable regulatory requirements. 136 The commenter did, however, believe that the brokerdealer with market access should conduct reviews that are reasonably designed to ensure
compliance with the SRO marketplace rules. 137
Finally, several commenters expressed concern that the Rule would require every brokerdealer in the chain of a market access arrangement to implement pre-trade controls and thereby
introduce redundancies and inefficiencies into the order routing process. 138 Some of these
commenters were also concerned that if the Rule required multiple broker-dealers to implement
pre-trade checks it could make these arrangements impractical and the benefits of volume
aggregation to achieve tiered pricing, cooperative leveraging of broker-dealer technology, and

133

NYSE Letter at 2.

134

NYSE Letter at 2.

135

ConvergEx Letter at 7.

136

ConvergEx Letter at 7.

137

ConvergEx Letter at 5.

138

See BATS Letter at 3-4; EWT Letter at 4; Deutsche Bank Letter at 2; ABA Letter at 3-4;
Marchant Letter at 1.

57

non-member access to markets could be reduced or eliminated. 139 On the other hand, some
commenters argued the rule properly should only be applicable to the broker-dealer with market
access, because application to all broker-dealers involved in the execution and clearing of a trade
would be unnecessary and duplicative. 140
After careful consideration of the comments submitted with respect to the possible
allocation of certain compliance responsibilities to broker-dealer customers, the Commission has
determined to permit, subject to certain conditions, broker-dealers providing market access to
reasonably allocate control over certain regulatory risk management controls and supervisory
procedures to customers that are registered broker-dealers who, based on their position and
relationship with an ultimate customer, can more effectively implement them.
Specifically, the Commission is modifying Proposed Rule 15c3-5(d) to permit a brokerdealer providing market access to reasonably allocate, by written contract, control over specific
regulatory risk management controls and supervisory procedures to a customer that is a
registered broker-dealer, so long as the broker-dealer providing market access has a reasonable
basis for determining that such customer, based on its position in the transaction and relationship
with an ultimate customer, has better access to that ultimate customer and its trading information
such that it can more effectively implement the specified controls and procedures.141 The
Commission believes a broker-dealer providing market access could allocate to a customer that
is a registered broker-dealer, consistent with this standard, control over those regulatory risk
management controls and supervisory procedures encompassed by paragraph (c)(2) of Rule

139

See e.g., Wedbush Letter at 2-3; Penson Letter at 3; Lime Letter at 4-5.

140

See FINRA Letter at 2.

141

The Commission notes that such broker-dealer that can more effectively implement the
specified controls or procedures likely would also be able to more efficiently do so.

58

15c3-5 that require specific knowledge of the ultimate customer and its trading activity that the
broker-dealer providing market access would not have. These could include obligations under
suitability and other “know your customer” rules, 142 since the broker-dealer with the direct
customer relationship may have better access than the broker-dealer with market access to that
ultimate customer’s information to more effectively assess the ultimate customer’s financial
resources and investment objectives. For similar reasons, the broker-dealer providing market
access could allocate to its customer that is a registered broker-dealer control over the
mechanisms – required by paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of Rule 15c3-5 – for preventing the ultimate
customer from trading securities such customer is restricted from trading. Control also could be
allocated with respect to surveillance for manipulation or fraud in the ultimate customer’s
account – such as wash sales, marking the close, and insider trading – since the broker-dealer
providing market access may only see aggregate trading by the broker-dealer customer in an
omnibus or other account, and not trading at the individual customer account level. If a brokerdealer providing market access were to reasonably allocate control over these functions to a
customer that is a registered broker-dealer, however, the Commission expects the broker-dealer
providing market access to immediately provide its customer that is a registered broker-dealer
with the post-trade executions reports it receives from exchanges and ATSs pursuant to
paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of Rule 15c3-5, so that the broker-dealer customer can effectively surveil for
fraud and manipulation in the accounts of the ultimate customers. Finally, in accordance with
the requirements of Regulation SHO, the broker-dealer providing market access may rely on a
registered broker-dealer customer’s compliance with the locate requirement of Rule 203(b)(1) of

142

See, e.g., FINRA Rule 2010; NASD Rules 2310 and IM-2310-3; and NYSE Rule 405.

59

Regulation SHO, unless the broker-dealer providing market access contractually undertook
responsibility for compliance with the locate requirement. 143
The foregoing is not an exhaustive list of the regulatory risk management controls and
supervisory procedures for which control may be reasonably allocated to a customer that is a
registered broker-dealer, but in all cases the broker-dealer providing market access must be
prepared to demonstrate a reasonable basis for determining that the broker-dealer customer,
based on its position in the transaction and relationship with an ultimate customer, has better
access than the broker-dealer with market access to that ultimate customer and its trading
information such that it can more effectively implement the specific function over which control
is allocated. 144 This is consistent with one of fundamental principles underlying Rule 15c3-5,
that the controls over the financial and regulatory risks associated with market access should be
overseen directly by the broker-dealers providing that access, given their responsibility for
trading that occurs under their MPIDs and the fact that in general they are better positioned to
more effectively implement those controls. To maximize the effectiveness of the reasonably
designed risk management controls in connection with market access, however, paragraph (d)(1)
of Rule 15c3-5 accommodates allocation of control over a regulatory risk management control or
supervisory procedure in those circumstances where – and only where – another registered
broker-dealer is better positioned to implement it than the broker-dealer providing market access.
Paragraph (d)(1) of Rule 15c3-5 also requires that any reasonable allocation of control
contemplated thereby be in a written contract and specify the regulatory risk management
controls and supervisory procedures over which control is being allocated. Paragraph (d)(2) of
143

See 17 CFR 242.203(b)(1).

144

The Commission notes that, generally, a member of an SRO would be able to more
effectively implement a regulatory obligation to comply with rules specific to a particular
SRO than a broker-dealer that is not a member of such SRO.

60

Rule 15c3-5 makes clear that any such allocation of control does not relieve the broker-dealer
providing market access from any obligation under the Rule, including the overall responsibility
to establish, document and maintain a system of risk management controls and supervisory
procedures reasonably designed to manage the financial, regulatory, and other risks of market
access. Thus, the broker-dealer providing market access remains ultimately responsible for the
performance of any regulatory risk management control or supervisory procedure for which
control is allocated to a customer that is a registered broker-dealer under Rule 15c3-5(d).
Consistent with this approach, the Commission expects a broker-dealer that provides
market access and desires to reasonably allocate control over specified functions to a customer
that is a registered broker-dealer as described above, to:
(1) conduct a thorough due diligence review to establish a reasonable basis for
determining that the registered broker-dealer customer to which control has been allocated has
the capability and, based on its position in the transaction and relationship with an ultimate
customer, has better access than the broker-dealer with market access to that ultimate customer
and its trading information such that it can more effectively implement the reasonably designed
risk management controls and supervisory procedures that are specifically allocated to it;
(2) enter into a written contract with such registered broker-dealer customer that clearly
articulates the scope of the arrangement and the specific responsibilities of each party, consistent
with the foregoing discussion; and
(3) in accordance with Rule 15c3-5(e), establish, document, and maintain a system to
regularly review the performance of the registered broker-dealer customer under such contract,
and the effectiveness of the allocated controls and procedures, and promptly address any
performance weaknesses, including termination of the allocation arrangement if warranted.

61

In the Proposing Release, the Commission expressed concern that the broker-dealer
providing sponsored access may not utilize any pre-trade risk management controls (i.e.,
“unfiltered” or “naked” access), and thus could be unaware of the trading activity occurring
under its market identifier and have no mechanism to control it. 145 In addition, the Commission
noted that some broker-dealers providing sponsored access may simply rely on assurances from
their customers that appropriate risk controls are in place and the Commission concluded that
risk management controls and supervisory procedures that are not applied on a pre-trade basis or
that are not under the exclusive control of the broker-dealer are inadequate to effectively address
the risks of market access arrangements, and pose a particularly significant vulnerability in the
U.S. national market system.
While the Commission believes it is appropriate to permit the reasonable
allocation of certain regulatory risk management controls and supervisory procedures, as
described above, to a customer that is a registered broker-dealer, the Commission
continues to be concerned about circumstances where broker-dealers providing market
access simply rely on assurances from their customers that appropriate risk controls are in
place. In the Commission’s view these concerns are present even if the customer of the
broker-dealer with market access is a broker-dealer. Accordingly, the Commission
emphasizes that in any permitted allocation arrangement, the broker-dealer providing
market access may not merely rely on another broker-dealer’s attestation that it has
implemented appropriate controls or procedures, or has agreed to be responsible for the
same. Instead, as noted above, the broker-dealer providing market access should
independently review, on an ongoing basis, the effectiveness of the reasonably designed

145

See Proposing Release, 75 FR at 4008.

62

controls or procedures allocated to a customer that is a registered broker-dealer and
promptly address any weaknesses.
One commenter took the position that a broker-dealer with market access does not have a
responsibility to supervise the activity of customers of an introducing broker, in part because it
would not have a direct relationship with the ultimate customer and would be unable to discern
salient facts such as the customer’s financial condition, risk tolerance, trading strategies,
objectives or account holdings. 146 While the Commission agrees, as discussed above, that a
customer that is a registered broker-dealer may reasonably be allocated control of certain
regulatory risk management controls and supervisory procedures that, based on its position in the
transaction and relationship with the ultimate customer, it can more effectively implement, the
Commission believes the broker-dealer providing market access should retain ultimate
responsibility for trading activity that occurs by virtue of its MPID. 147
Finally, the Commission notes that various commenters expressed concern that the Rule
would require every broker-dealer in the chain of a market access arrangement to implement pretrade controls which would introduce redundancies and inefficiencies into the order routing
process. 148 The Commission emphasizes that the Rule is applicable to the broker-dealer with
market access, not every broker-dealer in a market access arrangement. Under the Rule, the
broker-dealer with market access is required to reasonably ensure that appropriate risk
management controls and supervisory procedures are utilized in relation to its market access,
including appropriate pre-trade controls. However, the Rule does not require multiple layers of

146

See ConvergEx Letter at 7.

147

See FINRA Letter at 2; BATS Letter at 2-3; Nasdaq Letter at 2. See also, FINRA Rule
3310.

148

See BATS Letter at 3-4; EWT Letter at 4; Deutsche Bank Letter at 2; ABA Letter at 3-4.

63

pre-trade controls for any order and is not intended or designed to introduce any unnecessary or
unwarranted redundancies and inefficiencies into the order routing process for market access
arrangements.
2. Risk Management Systems Developed by Others
In the Proposing Release, the Commission specifically addressed the application of the
Rule’s “direct and exclusive control” provisions to the use of risk management technology
developed by third parties. In relevant part, the Commission stated that:
Under the proposal, appropriate broker-dealer personnel should be able to directly
monitor the operation of the financial and regulatory risk management controls in
real-time. Broker-dealers would have the flexibility to seek out risk management
technology developed by third parties, but the Commission expects that the third
parties would be independent of customers provided with market access. The
broker-dealer would also be expected to perform appropriate due diligence to help
assure controls are effective and otherwise consistent with the provisions of the
proposed rule. The Commission understands that such technology allows the
broker or dealer to exclusively manage such controls. The broker-dealer also
could allow a third party that is independent of customers to supplement its own
monitoring of the operation of its controls. In addition, the broker-dealer could
permit third parties to perform routine maintenance or implement technology
upgrades on its risk management controls, so long as the broker-dealer conducts
appropriate due diligence regarding any changes to such controls and their

64

implementation. Of course, in all circumstances, the broker-dealer would remain
fully responsible for the effectiveness of the risk management controls. 149
Several commenters addressed the Commission’s position with respect to risk
management systems developed by third parties, as articulated in the Proposing Release. One
commenter, for example, was unclear as to whether a broker-dealer providing market access
could outsource the development of a risk management system to a third party technology
service provider. 150 The commenter suggested that the Commission clarify that outsourcing to a
technology service provider is permissible by removing the word “exclusive” from paragraph (d)
of the proposed Rule. 151 Another commenter asked that the Commission clarify whether third
party software could be under the control of a third party vendor, provided that the broker-dealer
providing market access is able to control the parameters and thresholds applied by the
software. 152 Commenters also requested that the Commission clarify whether a broker-dealer
providing market access could use risk management controls provided by exchanges and ATSs
to fulfill its obligations under the Rule, provided that the broker-dealer providing market access
could control the parameters of the risk management controls. 153 One commenter suggested it
would be helpful “in understanding the contours of the ‘direct and exclusive’ control
requirement” if the Commission provided a non-exclusive list of examples of third party
arrangements that would be acceptable and unacceptable under the Rule. 154

149

Proposing Release, 75 FR at 4015.

150

ConvergEx Letter at 11.

151

ConvergEx Letter at 11.

152

SIFMA Letter at 5.

153

SIFMA Letter at 5; BIDS Letter at 3; Deutsche Bank Letter at 6; CBOE Letter at 4.

154

SIFMA Letter at 5-6.

65

Two commenters agreed with the premise that a broker-dealer providing market access
should be permitted to use third party risk management systems, provided that that broker-dealer
is able to monitor trading activity in real-time and maintain control of the system. 155 One of
these commenters asserted that this should include third party risk management systems provided
by exchanges. 156 Another commenter noted that risk management software and controls
provided by a market center are common and provide an efficient and effective means for
broker-dealers to monitor and control their risk exposure. 157 Another commenter stated that to
the extent that the Rule permits the use of exchange-provided risk management tools, the
Commission should indicate whether a broker-dealer providing market access could rely on
exchange representations regarding the efficacy of such tools without requiring further
investigation or monitoring of those systems by the broker-dealer. 158 That commenter believed
independent verification should not be necessary unless the broker-dealer becomes aware of
problems with the system. 159
One commenter opined that a broker-dealer providing market access should not be
permitted to utilize a risk management system provided by a customer or an affiliate of a
customer. 160 However, the commenter also requested that the Commission clarify whether a
broker-dealer providing market access could rely on the representations from a third-party
provider of risk management systems regarding its affiliations. 161 Another commenter asked that
155

Goldman Letter at 7; MFA Letter at 2.

156

Goldman Letter at 7.

157

BIDS Letter at 2.

158

Deutsche Bank Letter at 6.

159

Deutsche Bank Letter at 6.

160

Goldman Letter at 7.

161

Goldman Letter at 7.

66

the Commission clarify whether a third party that is an affiliate, but not a controlled affiliate, of a
customer to which a broker-dealer provides market access, would be considered “independent”
of the customer. That commenter did not believe that such non-controlled affiliates should be
excluded from providing risk management software. 162 The commenter also requested that the
Commission clarify whether “independence” would be “expected,” as stated in the proposing
Release, or required. 163
Two commenters believed that a broker-dealer providing market access should be able to
utilize risk management systems provided by customers or entities affiliated with customers. 164
One commenter opined that technology developed by customers or entities affiliated with
customers can be just as effective as technology developed by independent third parties or
broker-dealers. 165 The commenter also thought the Rule should allow the flexibility to use
customer technology to help to mitigate the potential that a broker-dealer’s proprietary trading
desk could gain a competitive advantage over its customer trading desk as a result of a negative
impact on execution speed and latencies. 166
Another commenter stated that the broker-dealer providing market access should be
responsible for determining baseline limits for its customer but opined that “there are other
entirely appropriate adjustments that occur (and should continue to occur) outside of the brokerdealer's exclusive control.” 167 The commenter noted that it is not unusual for sophisticated
customers to have front-end systems that permit such customers to independently tighten their
162

SIFMA Letter at 5.

163

SIFMA Letter at 5.

164

MFA Letter at 2; ConvergEx Letter at 11.

165

MFA Letter at 2.

166

MFA Letter at 2.

167

ConvergEx Letter at 11.

67

aggregate credit, size or position limits, or impose additional or enhanced trading restrictions on
a particular trader or group of traders. 168 Thus, the commenter concluded that, if the “baseline
limits are established and enforced by the [broker-dealer providing market access], customers
should be permitted to tighten risk management controls as they see fit.” 169
One commenter advised the Commission to permit a broker-dealer providing market
access to purchase a risk management system from its customer, and then use that risk
management system to monitor the customer’s trading activity. 170 The commenter opined that,
in such instances, the broker-dealer providing market access should be able to demonstrate that it
has disabled the customer’s control of the system, and that the acquired system is able to perform
effectively, consistent with the Rule’s standards. 171
Finally, one commenter suggested that requiring a broker-dealer providing market access
to use a risk management system independent from the customer “could destroy the business
model” for certain market access arrangements involving brokers or options traders, given the
trading delays those systems might require. 172
After careful consideration of the comments submitted on the Rule’s “direct and
exclusive control” provisions in relation to third party providers of risk management technology,
the Commission is adopting Rule 15c3-5(d) as proposed. As an initial matter, the Commission
confirms the position taken in the Proposing Release that a broker-dealer providing market
access can use risk management tools or technology provided by a third party that is independent

168

ConvergEx Letter at 11.

169

ConvergEx Letter at 11.

170

Lime Letter at 7.

171

Lime Letter at 7.

172

Fortis Letter at 12.

68

of the customer, so long as it has direct and exclusive control over those tools or technology and
performs appropriate due diligence. Specifically, the broker-dealer could “outsource” to an
independent third party the design and building of the risk management tools or technology for
the broker-dealer, and the performance of routine maintenance, so long as the broker-dealer
performs appropriate due diligence as to their effectiveness. In addition, the risk management
tools or technology could be located at the facilities of the independent third party, so long as the
broker-dealer can directly monitor their operation and has the exclusive ability to adjust the
controls. Further, the independent third party could, in response to specific direction from the
broker-dealer on a case-by-case basis, make an adjustment to the controls as agent for the brokerdealer. 173
The independent third party could be another broker-dealer, an exchange or ATS, a
service bureau, or other entity that is not an affiliate, 174 and is otherwise independent, of the
market access customer. When evaluating whether a technology provider is independent of the
customer, the Commission will look at the substance rather than the form of the relationship. For
example, the Commission would not consider a third party independent from a customer just
because it is technically not an affiliate, if it has a material business or other relationship with the
customer which could interfere with the provision of effective risk management technology to
the broker-dealer.
The Commission acknowledges that certain market access customers may have
sophisticated and effective technology to manage the risks related to their particular trading
173

The Commission notes that any adjustment to the controls by a third party as agent for
the broker-dealer should be made pursuant to specific direction, on a case-by-case basis,
from the broker-dealer rather than pursuant to standing instructions.

174

An affiliate includes any person that, directly or indirectly, controls, is under common
control with, or is controlled by, the customer.

69

strategies. However, the Commission believes that direct responsibility for having an effective
system of reasonably designed risk management controls belongs with the broker-dealer
providing market access, as the regulated entity through which access to the markets is obtained
and the party responsible for trading occurring under its MPID. The Rule would not preclude the
customer from having risk management controls that exceed those under the direct and exclusive
control of the broker-dealer – however, as required above, the broker-dealer cannot rely on risk
management technology that is designed, built, maintained or otherwise under the control of the
customer or its affiliates. In addition, the Commission believes a reasonably designed system of
risk management controls and supervisory procedures should rely on technology that is
developed independent of the market access customer or its affiliates. Requiring such
independence should reduce the risk that the effectiveness of these critical controls could be
undermined by allowing market access customers to develop the tools to, in effect, police
themselves. One commenter asked whether a broker-dealer providing market access could rely
on a customer representation of independence from the technology provider. 175 The
Commission believes that simple reliance on a customer representation of independence is
insufficient; instead, any broker-dealer providing market access that intends to rely on risk
management technology developed by third parties should conduct an appropriate level of due
diligence, including with respect to the independence of the developer from the market access
customer or its affiliates.
The Commission recognizes that market access arrangements have developed in many
different ways, and there has been a similarly varied response to the development and use of risk
management technology. Accordingly, the Commission emphasizes that it is not requiring a

175

Goldman Letter at 7.

70

“one-size-fits-all” approach to risk management. The direct and exclusive control provisions
allow for a variety of reasonable risk management approaches, consistent with the Rule, and, as
discussed above, will not require that a broker-dealer develop the risk management technology
itself. Instead, the direct and exclusive control provisions require the broker-dealer providing
market access to have the ability to directly monitor and the exclusive ability to adjust, as
appropriate, the operation of the financial and regulatory risk management controls in real-time.
As stated in the Proposing Release, 176 the direct and exclusive control provision is designed to
eliminate the practice whereby the broker-dealer providing market access may rely on its
customer, a third party service provider, or others, to establish and maintain the applicable risk
controls. The Commission believes the potential risks presented by market access are too great
to permit a broker-dealer to delegate the control of these critical risk management systems to the
customer or another third party.
The Commission reaffirms the position taken in the Proposing Release that the brokerdealer providing market access, consistent with the reasonably designed risk management system
required by the Rule, could permit a third party that is independent of customers to supplement
its own monitoring of the operation of its risk management controls. 177 The broker-dealer
providing market access also could allow a third party that is independent of customers to
perform routine maintenance or the implementation of technology upgrades on its risk
management controls; but the broker or dealer with market access should conduct appropriate
due diligence regarding any changes to such controls and their implementation to assure their
continued effectiveness. One commenter asked whether a broker-dealer providing market access
could rely on an exchange representation regarding the efficacy of exchange-provided risk
176

Proposing Release, 75 FR at 4014.

177

Proposing Release, 75 FR at 4015.

71

management technology and software, and argued that independent verification should be
unnecessary unless the broker-dealer becomes aware of a problem. 178 As noted above, the
Commission believes that a broker-dealer relying on risk management technology developed by
third parties should perform appropriate due diligence to help assure the controls are reasonably
designed, effective, and otherwise consistent with the Rule. Mere reliance on representations of
the third party technology developer – even if an exchange or other regulated entity – is
insufficient to meet this due diligence standard.
G.

Regular Review of Risk Management Controls and Supervisory Procedures

Proposed Rule 15c3-5(e) would require a broker-dealer with or providing market access
to establish, document, and maintain a system for regularly reviewing the effectiveness of its
reasonably designed risk management controls and supervisory procedures and for promptly
addressing any issues. Proposed Rule 15c3-5(e)(1) would require, among other things, the
broker-dealer to review, no less frequently than annually, the business activity of the brokerdealer in connection with market access to assure the overall effectiveness of its risk
management controls and supervisory procedures, and to conduct that review in accordance with
written procedures and document each such review. That provision also would require the
broker-dealer to preserve a copy of its written procedures, and documentation of each such
review, as part of its books and records in a manner consistent with Rule 17a-4(e)(7) under the
Exchange Act, and Rule 17a-4(b) under the Exchange Act, respectively.
Finally, Proposed Rule 15c3-5(e)(2) would require the Chief Executive Officer (or
equivalent officer) of the broker-dealer, on an annual basis, to certify that its risk management
controls and supervisory procedures comply with the Rule and that the broker-dealer conducted
178

See Deutsche Bank Letter at 6.

72

the regular review. These CEO certifications also are required to be preserved by the brokerdealer as part of its books and records in a manner consistent with Rule 17a-4(b) under the
Exchange Act.
In the Proposing Release, the Commission stated that, when establishing the specifics of
this regular review, it expects that each broker-dealer with market access would establish written
procedures that are reasonably designed to assure that the broker-dealer’s controls and
procedures are adjusted, as necessary, to help assure their continued effectiveness in light of any
changes in the broker-dealer’s business or weaknesses that have been revealed.
The Commission received eleven comment letters that discussed the proposed
requirements for a regular review of the effectiveness of a broker-dealer’s risk management
controls and supervisory procedures, and particularly the annual certification of the CEO (or
equivalent officer). 179 A few commenters indicated that the review and certification
requirements would be burdensome and costly, and would divert supervisory resources from
other projects. 180 One commenter expressed concern that various requirements for separate CEO
certifications for different rules could be unwieldy and burdensome. 181 Others commenters
recommended that the certification requirement be imposed on another officer (such as the Chief
Risk Officer, Chief Compliance Officer, or an equivalent officer) or an outside firm. 182 A few
commenters requested clarification as to whether the proposed CEO certification requirement
179

See letters to Elizabeth M. Murphy, Secretary, Commission, from Samuel F. Lek, Chief
Executive Officer, Lek Securities Corporation, February 21, 2010 (“Lek Letter”) at 3;
Christopher Carter, April 19, 2010 (“Carter Letter”) at 7; Andrew C. Small, General
Counsel, Scottrade, Inc., March 30, 2010 (“Scottrade Letter”) at 1; ITG Letter at 9-10;
Deutsche Bank Letter at 6-7; ABA Letter at 5-6; EWT Letter at 5; Engmann Letter at 3;
Pershing Letter at 4; BIDS Letter at 4; Goldman Letter at 7.

180

See Lek Letter at 3; ITG Letter at 9-10; ABA Letter at 5-6; Carter Letter at 7.

181

Deutsche Bank Letter at 6-7.

182

See EWT Letter at 5; see also Carter Letter at 7.

73

would create a completely new obligation or whether it could be viewed as encompassed by
existing certification processes, such as the FINRA Rule 3130 certification process. 183 In
addition, several commenters recommended that broker-dealers should be able to satisfy the
CEO certification requirement through the existing FINRA Rule 3130 certification or other
existing certification processes. 184
As proposed, Rule 15c3-5(e) is intended to assure that a broker-dealer with or providing
market access implements supervisory review mechanisms to support the effectiveness of its risk
management controls and supervisory procedures on an ongoing basis. In the Proposing
Release, the Commission expressed the view that, because of the potential risks associated with
market access, and the dynamic nature of both the securities markets and the businesses of
individual broker-dealers, it is critical that a broker-dealer with market access charge its most
senior management – specifically the CEO or an equivalent officer – with the responsibility to
review and certify the efficacy of its controls and procedures at regular intervals. 185 The
Commission believes that this certification requirement is an integral component of the risk
management controls and supervisory procedures contemplated by Rule 15c3-5, and should help
assure their effectiveness. As noted in the Proposing Release, the Commission also believes that
the CEO certification requirement should serve to bolster broker-dealer compliance programs,
and promote meaningful and purposeful interaction between business and compliance
personnel. 186

183

See Engmann Letter at 3; Pershing Letter at 4; BIDS Letter at 4; Goldman Letter at 7.

184

See Engmann Letter at 3; Pershing Letter at 4; BIDS Letter at 4; ITG Letter at 9-10;
Deutsche Bank Letter at 6-7; ABA Letter at 5-6; SIFMA Letter at 9; Scottrade Letter at 1.

185

Proposing Release, 75 FR at 4015.

186

See Proposing Release, 75 FR at 4015.

74

The Commission is adopting Rule 15c3-5(e) as proposed. In the Proposing Release, the
Commission noted that Proposed Rule 15c3-5 is “intended to complement and bolster existing
rules and guidance issued by the exchanges and by FINRA with respect to market access.” 187
The Commission would expect, in many cases, the annual CEO certification required under Rule
15c3-5(e)(2) to be completed in conjunction with a firm’s annual review and certification of its
supervisory systems pursuant to FINRA Rule 3130. However, the CEO certification
contemplated by the Rule is a separate and distinct certification from the FINRA 3130
certification or any other similar certification process. 188 That said, the Commission believes a
FINRA member could combine in the same document the CEO certification required by Rule
15c3-5(e)(2) with the FINRA 3130 or other required certifications, so long as the substance of
each of the required certifications is contained in that document.
III.

Paperwork Reduction Act
The Rule contains “collection of information” requirements within the meaning of the

Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (“PRA”). 189 In accordance with 44 U.S.C. 3507 and 5 CFR
1320.11, the Commission submitted the provisions to the Office of Management and Budget
(“OMB”) for review. The title for the proposed collection of information requirement is “Rule
15c3-5, Market Access.” An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to
respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid control number.
In the Proposing Release, the Commission solicited comments on the collection of
information requirements. The Commission noted that the estimates of the effect that the Rule

187

See Proposing Release, 75 FR at 4010.

188

The Commission also notes that Rule 15c3-5(e)(2) may apply to broker-dealers that are
not FINRA members.

189

44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.

75

would have on the collection of information were based on data from various industry sources.
As discussed above, the Commission received 47 comment letters on the proposed rulemaking.
Of the comment letters the Commission received, some commenters addressed the collection of
information aspects of the proposal. 190
A.

Summary of Collection of Information

Rule 15c3-5 will require a broker or dealer with market access, or that provides a
customer or any other person with access to an exchange or ATS through use of its MPID or
otherwise, to establish, document, and maintain a system of risk management controls and
supervisory procedures to assist it in managing the financial, regulatory, and other risks, such as
legal and operational risks, of this business activity. The system of risk management controls
and supervisory procedures, among other things, shall be reasonably designed to (1)
systematically limit the financial exposure of the broker or dealer that could arise as a result of
market access, and (2) ensure compliance with all regulatory requirements that are applicable in
connection with market access. The financial risk management controls and supervisory
procedures must be reasonably designed to prevent the entry of orders that exceed appropriate
pre-set credit or capital thresholds, or that appear to be erroneous. As a practical matter, the Rule
will require a respondent to set appropriate credit thresholds for each customer for which it
provides market access and appropriate capital thresholds for proprietary trading by the brokerdealer itself. The regulatory risk management controls and supervisory procedures must be
reasonably designed to prevent the entry of orders that do not comply with regulatory
requirements that must be satisfied on a pre-order entry basis, prevent the entry of orders that the
broker-dealer or customer is restricted from trading, restrict market access technology and

190

See, e.g., Pershing Letter at 4; Fortis Letter at 9; STANY Letter at 4; Lek Letter at 3.

76

systems to authorized persons, and assure appropriate surveillance personnel receive immediate
post-trade execution reports. Each such broker or dealer will be required to preserve a copy of
its supervisory procedures and a written description of its risk management controls as part of its
books and records in a manner consistent with Rule 17a-4(e)(7) under the Exchange Act. 191
In addition, the Rule will require a broker or dealer with market access, or that provides a
customer or any other person with access to an exchange or ATS through use of its MPID or
otherwise, to establish, document, and maintain a system for regularly reviewing the
effectiveness of the risk management controls and supervisory procedures required under the
Rule and for promptly addressing any issues. Among other things, the broker or dealer will be
required to review, no less frequently than annually, the business activity of the broker or dealer
in connection with market access to assure the overall effectiveness of such risk management
controls and supervisory procedures and document that review. Such review will be required to
be conducted in accordance with written procedures and will be required to be documented. The
broker or dealer will be required to preserve a copy of such written procedures, and
documentation of each such review, as part of its books and records in a manner consistent with
Rule 17a-4(e)(7) under the Exchange Act, 192 and Rule 17a-4(b) under the Exchange Act,
respectively. 193
In addition, the Chief Executive Officer (or equivalent officer) of the broker or dealer, on
an annual basis, will be required to certify that such risk management controls and supervisory
procedures comply with the Rule, that the broker or dealer conducted such review, and such

191

See supra note 23.

192

Id.

193

See supra note 25.

77

certifications shall be preserved by the broker or dealer as part of its books and records in a
manner consistent with Rule 17a-4(b) under the Exchange Act. 194
B.

Use of Information

The requirement that a broker or dealer with market access, or that provides a customer
or any other person with access to an exchange or ATS through use of its MPID or otherwise,
establish, document, and maintain a system of risk management controls and supervisory
procedures that, among other things, shall be reasonably designed to (1) systematically limit the
financial exposure of the broker or dealer that could arise as a result of market access, and (2)
ensure compliance with all regulatory requirements that are applicable in connection with market
access, will help ensure that such brokers or dealers have sufficiently effective controls and
procedures in place to appropriately manage the risks associated with market access. The
requirement to preserve a copy of its supervisory procedures and a written description of its risk
management controls as part of its books and records in a manner consistent with Rule 17a4(e)(7) under the Exchange Act will help to assure that appropriate written records were made,
and will be used by the Commission staff and SRO staff during an examination of the broker or
dealer for compliance with the Rule.
The requirement to maintain a system for regularly reviewing the effectiveness of the risk
management controls and supervisory procedures required under the Rule will help to ensure that
the risk management controls and supervisory procedures remain effective. A broker-dealer will
use these risk management controls and supervisory procedures to fulfill its obligations under the
Rule, as well as to evaluate and help ensure its financial integrity more generally. The
Commission and SROs will use this information in their exams of the broker or dealer, as well as

194

Id.

78

for regulatory purposes. The requirement that a broker or dealer preserve a copy of written
procedures, and documentation of each such regular review, as part of its books and records in a
manner consistent with Rule 17a-4(e)(7) under the Exchange Act, and Rule 17a-4(b) under the
Exchange Act, respectively, will help to assure that the regular review was in fact completed, and
will be used by the Commission staff and SRO staff during an examination of the broker or
dealer for compliance with the Rule. The requirement that the Chief Executive Officer (or
equivalent officer) of the broker or dealer, on an annual basis, certify that such risk management
controls and supervisory procedures comply with Rule 15c3-5, that the annual review was
conducted, and that such certifications be preserved by the broker or dealer as part of its books
and records in a manner consistent with Rule 17a-4(b) under the Exchange Act will help to
ensure that senior management review the efficacy of its controls and procedures at regular
intervals and that such review is documented. This certification will be used internally by the
broker or dealer as evidence that it complied with the Rule and possibly for internal compliance
audit purposes. The certification also will be used by Commission staff and SRO staff during an
examination of the broker or dealer for compliance with the Rule or more generally with regard
to evaluation of a broker or dealer’s risk management control procedures and controls.
C.

Respondents

In the Proposing Release, the Commission estimated that the “collection of information”
associated with the Rule would apply to approximately 1,295 brokers-dealers that have market
access or provide a customer or any other person with market access. Of these 1,295 brokersdealers, the Commission estimated that there are 1,095 brokers-dealers that are members of an
exchange. This estimate was based on broker-dealer responses to FOCUS report filings with the
Commission from 2007 and 2008. The Commission estimated that the remaining 200 broker-

79

dealers are subscribers to ATSs but are not exchange members. This estimate was based on a
sampling of subscriber information contained in Exhibit A to Form ATS-R filed with the
Commission.
The Commission continues to estimate that there are 1,095 brokers-dealers that are
members of an exchange, and that there are an additional 200 broker-dealers that are subscribers
to ATSs but are not exchange members. However, the Commission is revising its initial estimate
of the total number of respondents in a different respect. As stated above, the Commission is
well aware that the same regulatory and financial risks are present when a non-broker-dealer
subscriber directly accesses an ATS as when a broker-dealer accesses an exchange or ATS.
Accordingly, the Commission believes that a broker-dealer operator of an ATS should be
required to implement the financial and regulatory risk management controls required by the rule
with regard to non-broker-dealer subscriber’s access to its ATS. The Commission notes that
currently there are approximately 80 ATSs that are registered with the Commission and provide
market access, and the broker-dealer operators of these ATSs should be included among the
respondents. This number is based on the number of ATSs that have filed an initial operation
report (“Form ATS”) with the Commission and also currently submit quarterly reports of
alternative trading system activities (“Form ATS-R”).
With the 80 additional respondents, the Commission now estimates that the “collection of
information” associated with the Rule will apply to approximately 1,375 brokers-dealers that
have market access or provide a customer or any other person with market access.
In the Proposing Release, the Commission solicited comments on the estimated number
of respondents. Several commenters stated that the Commission’s estimate does not take into
account how the Rule’s enactment will subsequently change the number of registered brokers-

80

dealers that provide market access. For example, one commenter believed that the number of
registered broker-dealers would increase, because some algorithmic trading firms would need to
register as broker-dealers in order to continue to implement their current trading strategies in the
face of increased latency times. 195 On the other hand, various commenters asserted that the Rule
will prevent small broker-dealers from using sponsored access as a means to aggregate trading
volume, obtain tiered pricing from exchanges, and remain competitive with larger liquidity
providers, and therefore will drive smaller liquidity providers from the market. 196 If true, this
will potentially reduce the number of registered broker-dealers that provide market access.
In addition to making an adjustment in the number of respondents to account for brokerdealer ATS operators that provide market access to non-broker-dealers, as described above, the
Commission acknowledges that the implementation of the Rule may introduce competitive
effects that lead to a change in the number of registered brokers-dealers with market access.
However, the Commission notes that of the two speculative outcomes noted by commenters
above, both caused by increased latency times, one would increase the number of registered
broker-dealers, while the other would decrease the number. Although the Commission should
anticipate either or both of these trends occurring, it is difficult to speculate which trend would
predominate, if one does indeed take precedence over the other. The Commission ultimately
believes that although the Rule may lead to short-term increases or decreases in the number of
registered broker-dealers, such increases and decreases may offset each other over the longer
term. Because of this, the Commission continues to believe that 1,375 brokers-dealers that have
market access or provide a customer or any other person with market access is an appropriate
estimate of the number of entities that will be subject to the rule for the current PRA analysis.
195

See ABA Letter at 6-7.

196

See id. at 7, Jane Street Letter at 2.

81

D.

Total Initial and Annual Reporting and Recordkeeping Burdens

For the purposes of the PRA analysis, the Commission considered the burden on
respondents to bring their risk management controls and supervisory procedures into compliance
with the Rule. The Commission continues to note that among brokers-dealers with market
access, there is currently no uniform standard for risk management controls and supervisory
procedures. The extent to which a respondent will be burdened by the proposed collection of
information under the Rule will depend significantly on the financial and regulatory risk
management controls that already exist in the respondent’s system as well as the respondent’s
business model. As stated in the Proposing Release, the Commission believes that in many
cases, particularly with respect to proprietary trading, more traditional agency brokerage
activities, and direct market access, the Rule may be substantially satisfied by a respondent’s
existing financial and regulatory risk management controls and current supervisory procedures.
As noted in the Proposing Release, these brokers-dealers likely will only require limited updates
to their systems to meet the requisite risk management controls specified in the Rule, and as
such, will incur minimal additional reporting and recordkeeping burdens.
The Commission continues to believe that the majority of respondents have risk
management systems with pre-trade financial and regulatory controls, although the use and range
of those controls may vary among firms. As noted in the Proposing Release, certain pre-trade
controls, such as pre-set trading limits or filters to prevent erroneous trades, may already be in
place within a respondent’s risk management system. Similarly, the extent to which receipt of
immediate post-trade execution reports creates a burden on respondents would depend on
whether a respondent already receives such reports on an immediate, post-trade basis or on an
end-of-day basis. For broker-dealers that rely largely on “unfiltered” or “naked” access, the Rule

82

could require the development or significant upgrade of a new risk management system, which
would be a significantly larger burden on a potential respondent. Therefore, the burden imposed
by the Rule will differ vastly depending on a broker-dealer’s current risk management system
and business model.
Rule 15c3-5 will also require a respondent to update its review and compliance
procedures to comply with the Rule’s requirement to regularly review its risk management
controls and supervisory procedures, including a certification annually by the Chief Executive
Officer (or equivalent officer). The Commission notes that a respondent should currently have
written compliance procedures reasonably designed to review its business activity. 197 Rule
15c3-5 will initially require a respondent to update its written compliance procedures to
document the method in which the respondent plans to comply with the Rule.
1.

Technology Development and Maintenance

In the Proposing Release, the Commission estimated that the initial burden for a potential
respondent to comply with the proposed requirement to establish, document, and maintain a
system for regularly reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management controls and supervisory
procedures, on average, would be 150 hours if performed in-house, 198 or approximately $35,000

197

See supra note 57.

198

This estimate was based on discussions with various industry participants. Specifically,
the modification and upgrading of hardware and software for a pre-existing risk control
management system, with few substantial changes required, would take approximately
two weeks, while the development of a risk control management system from scratch
would take approximately three months.
Based on discussions with industry participants, the Commission estimated that a
dedicated team of 1.5 people would be required for the system development. The team
may include one or more programmer analysts, senior programmers, or senior systems
analysts. Each team member would work approximately 20 days per month, or 8 hours ×
20 days = 160 hours per month. Therefore, the total number of hours per month for one
system development team would be 240 hours.

83

if outsourced. 199 This figure was a weighted estimate based on the estimated number of hours
for initial internal development and implementation by a respondent to program its system to add
the controls needed to comply with the requirements of the proposed rule, expand system
capacity, if necessary, and establish the ability to receive immediate post-trade execution reports.
Based on discussion with various industry participants, the Commission expected that brokersdealers with market access currently have the means to receive post-trade executions reports, at a
minimum, on an end-of-day basis.
The Commission noted in the Proposing Release that if the broker-dealer decides to
forego internal technology development and instead opts to purchase technology from a thirdparty technology provider or service bureau, the technology costs would also depend on the risk
management controls that are already in place, as well as the business model of the broker or
dealer. Based on discussions with various industry participants, the Commission noted that
technology for risk management controls is generally purchased on a monthly basis. In the
Proposing Release, the Commission’s staff estimated that the cost to purchase technology from a
third-party technology provider or service bureau would be approximately $3,000 per month for
a single connection to a trading venue, plus an additional $1,000 per month for each additional
connection to that exchange. For an estimate of the annual outsourcing cost, the Commission
noted that for two connections to each of two different trading venues, the annual cost would be

A two-week project to modify and upgrade a pre-existing risk control management
system would require 240 hours/month × 0.5 months = 120 hours, while a three-month
project to develop a risk control management system from scratch would require 240
hours/month × 3 months = 720 hours. Based on discussions with industry participants,
the Commission estimated that 95% of all respondents would require modifications and
upgrades only, and 5% would require development of a system from scratch. Therefore,
the total average number of burden hours for an initial internal development project
would be approximately (0.95 × 120 hours) + (0.05 × 720 hours) = 150 hours.
199

See infra note 227.

84

$96,000. 200 The potential range of costs would vary considerably, depending upon the business
model of the broker-dealer.
Moreover, the Commission noted that on an ongoing basis, a respondent would have to
maintain its risk management system by monitoring its effectiveness and updating its systems to
address any issues detected. In addition, a respondent would be required to preserve a copy of its
written description of its risk management controls as part of its books and records in a manner
consistent with Rule 17a-4(e)(7) under the Exchange Act. The Commission estimated that the
ongoing annualized burden for a potential respondent to maintain its risk management system
would be approximately 115 burden hours if performed in-house, 201 or approximately $26,800 if
outsourced. 202 The Commission believed the ongoing burden of complying with the proposed
rule’s collection of information would include, among other things, updating systems to address

200

12 months × $4,000 (estimated monthly cost for two connections to a trading venue) × 2
trading venues = $96,000. This estimate was based on discussions with various industry
participants. For purposes of this estimate, “connection” was defined as up to 1000
messages per second inbound, regardless of the connection’s actual capacity.
For the conservative estimate above, the Commission chose two connections to a trading
venue, the number required to accommodate 1,500 to 2,000 messages per second. The
estimated number of messages per second was based on discussions with various industry
participants.

201

Based on discussions with industry participants, the Commission estimated that a
dedicated team of 1.5 people would be used for the ongoing maintenance of all
technology systems. The team may include one or more programmer analysts, senior
programmers, or senior systems analysts. In-house system staff size varies depending on,
among other things, the business model of the broker or dealer. Each staff member
would work 160 hours per month, or 12 months × 160 hours = 1,920 hours per year. A
team of 1.5 people therefore would work 1,920 hours × 1.5 people = 2,880 hours per
year. Based on discussions with industry participants, the Commission estimated that 4%
of the team’s total work time would be used for ongoing risk management maintenance.
Accordingly, the total number of burden hours for this task, per year, is 0.04 × 2,880
hours = 115.2 hours.

202

See infra note 228.
85

any issues detected, updating risk management controls to reflect any change in its business
model, and documenting and preserving its written description of its risk management controls.
For hardware and software expenses, the Commission estimated that the average initial
cost would be approximately $16,000 per broker-dealer, 203 while the average ongoing cost
would be approximately $20,500 per broker-dealer. 204
The Commission also considered how permitting broker-dealers to allocate regulatory
risk management controls to customers that are registered broker-dealers would affect the
Commission’s calculations of total initial and annual reporting and recordkeeping burdens.
Although commenters have noted that such market access arrangements consisting of multiple
broker-dealers are commonplace, 205 establishing an estimate for the average additional
technology burden is a challenging task. Numerous uncertainties, including the number of
broker-dealers involved in any given transaction or contractual agreement, create difficulties in
developing estimates.
After carefully evaluating the types of compliance responsibilities that could be allocated,
the technological capabilities required, and the tasks associated with risk compliance allocation,
the Commission determined that in estimating the additional initial and ongoing technology

203

Industry sources estimate that to build a risk control management system from scratch,
hardware would cost $44,500 and software would cost $58,000, while to upgrade a preexisting risk control management system, hardware would cost $5,000 and software
would cost $6,517. Based on discussions with industry participants, the Commission
estimates that 95% of all respondents would require modifications and upgrades only,
and 5% would require development of a system from scratch. Therefore, the total
average hardware and software cost for an initial internal development project would be
approximately (0.95 × $11,517) + (0.05 × $102,500) = $16,066, or $16,000.

204

Industry sources estimate that for ongoing maintenance, hardware would cost $8,900 on
average and software would cost $11,600 on average. The total average hardware and
software cost for ongoing maintenance would be $8,900 + $ 11,600 = $20,500.

205

See supra note 107.

86

burdens, these considerations would not affect estimated burdens in a meaningful way. The
Commission expects that any additional technology burdens that broker-dealers undertake to
bring their sponsored broker-dealers “on board” will be offset by the sponsored broker-dealers’
reduced technology burdens from using their sponsoring broker-dealers’ risk management
systems. While the Commission recognizes that the offsetting of technology burdens may not
fully reflect all of the hours that broker-dealers may incur from preparing risk management
systems for allocation, Commission staff believes that such an estimate is reasonable given the
relatively small technology burdens that sponsored broker-dealers currently have as part of their
status quo. The Commission is therefore retaining the hourly burden estimates and calculation
methodology for technology development and maintenance as originally proposed.
In the Proposing Release, the Commission solicited comments on the burdens of
technology development and maintenance. The Commission did not receive any comments that
directly addressed the initial or ongoing burden for technology, as measured in hours, for a
potential respondent to comply with the proposed requirement to establish, document, and
maintain a system for regularly reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management controls and
supervisory procedures.
However, two commenters did address the Commission’s technology outsourcing cost
estimates, asserting that they were too low. For example, one commenter believed that the
Commission’s initial and ongoing technology outsourcing cost estimates dramatically
understated the actual costs that would be incurred, stating that maintenance from outside
vendors would cost in excess of $1 million per year for services that include “fat finger,” credit,

87

and compliance controls. 206 Another commenter estimated that it will cost more than $2 million
per year for a company to buy the appropriate systems. 207
The Commission reiterates that technology outsourcing costs will vary depending on the
size of the broker or dealer and the extent to which it already complies with the recordkeeping
requirements described in the Rule. As stated above, Rule 15c3-5 does not employ a “one-sizefits-all” standard for determining compliance with the rule.208 The Commission notes that its
burden and outsourcing estimates are calculated as weighted averages, and that these estimates
skew lower because the Commission estimates that, based on discussions with various industry
participants, the majority of broker-dealers that provide market access, if they are not already
fully compliant, are close to full compliance and are not expected to incur significant outsourcing
costs. Numerous industry sources have stated that for many smaller brokers-dealers, third-party
technology providers would take no longer than two or three days to program any compliance
adjustments. While some respondents will indeed incur significantly higher technology
outsourcing costs that would correspond to commenters’ estimates, the Commission expects that
these respondents will be significantly outnumbered by brokers-dealers who will incur minimal
outsourcing costs. The Commission therefore continues to believe that its burden estimates for
technology outsourcing are reasonable, and retains them as originally proposed.
2.

Legal and Compliance

In the Proposing Release, the Commission provided a separate set of burden estimates for
legal and compliance obligations. The Commission noted that the majority of broker-dealers

206

See ConvergEx Letter at 9.

207

See Wedbush Letter at 5-6.

208

See supra note 47.

88

should already have compliance policies and supervisory procedures in place. 209 Accordingly,
the Commission asserted that the initial burden to comply with the proposed compliance
requirements should not be substantial. Based on discussions with various industry participants
and the Commission’s prior experience with broker-dealers, the Commission estimated that the
initial legal and compliance burden on average for a potential respondent to comply with the
proposed requirement to establish, document, and maintain compliance policies and supervisory
procedures would be approximately 35 hours. Specifically, the setting of credit and capital
thresholds for each customer would require approximately 10 hours, 210 and the modification or
establishment of applicable compliance policies and procedures would require approximately 25
hours, 211 which includes establishing written procedures for reviewing the overall effectiveness
of the risk management controls and supervisory procedures.
On an ongoing basis, a respondent would have to maintain and review its risk
management controls and supervisory procedures to assure their effectiveness as well as to
address any deficiencies found. The broker-dealer would have to review, no less frequently than
annually, its business activity in connection with market access to assure the overall
effectiveness of the risk management controls and supervisory procedures and would be required
to make changes to address any problems or deficiencies found through this review. Such
review would be required to be conducted in accordance with written procedures and would be
required to be documented. The broker-dealer would be required to preserve a copy of such

209

See supra note 57.

210

The Commission estimated that one compliance attorney and one compliance manager
would each require 5 hours, for a total initial burden of 10 hours.

211

The Commission estimated that one compliance attorney and one compliance manager
would each require 10 hours, and one Chief Executive Officer would require 5 hours, for
a total initial burden of 25 hours.

89

written procedures, and documentation of each such review, as part of its books and records in a
manner consistent with Rule 17a-4(e)(7) under the Exchange Act, and Rule 17a-4(b) under the
Exchange Act, respectively. On an annual basis, the Chief Executive Officer (or equivalent
officer) of the broker-dealer would be required to certify that such risk management controls and
supervisory procedures comply with the proposed rule, that the broker or dealer conducted such
review, and that such certifications are preserved by the broker-dealer as part of its books and
records in a manner consistent with Rule 17a-4(b) under the Exchange Act. The ongoing burden
of complying with the proposed rule’s collection of information would include documentation
for compliance with its risk management controls and supervisory procedures, modification to
procedures to address any deficiencies in such controls or procedures, and the required
preservation of such records.
Based on discussions with industry participants and the Commission’s prior experience
with broker-dealers, the Commission estimated in the Proposing Release that a broker-dealer’s
implementation of an annual review, modification of its risk management controls and
supervisory procedures to address any deficiencies, and preservation of such records would
require 45 hours per year. Specifically, compliance attorneys who review, document, and update
written compliance policies and procedures would require an estimated 20 hours per year; a
compliance manager who reviews, documents, and updates written compliance policies and
procedures was expected to require 20 hours per year; and the Chief Executive Officer, who
certifies the policies and procedures, was expected to require another 5 hours per year.
Based on discussions with industry participants and the Commission’s prior experience
with broker-dealers, the Commission believed that the ongoing legal and compliance obligations
under the proposed rule would be handled internally because compliance with these obligations

90

is consistent with the type of work that a broker-dealer typically handles internally. The
Commission did not believe that a broker-dealer would have any recurring external costs
associated with legal and compliance obligations.
After considering the effects of permitting broker-dealers to enter contractual
arrangements to allocate certain risk compliance responsibilities to a customer that is a registered
broker-dealer, the Commission has decided to include additional hourly burden estimates for
legal and compliance staff to enter into such written contracts with other broker-dealer
customers. The Commission notes the difficulty of estimating an average hourly burden for
contract negotiations and preparation, because (1) the total number of contractual arrangements
could vary greatly from broker-dealer to broker-dealer, and (2) not all broker-dealers will enter
into such risk compliance allocation arrangements. Based on current industry sources, the
Commission expects that on both an initial and ongoing basis, compliance attorneys will spend
an average of 10 hours negotiating and preparing such risk compliance allocation contracts,
while compliance managers will require an average of 5 hours on these tasks. The Commission
again notes that its estimates are calculated as weighted averages, and that these estimates skew
lower because it anticipates that the number of broker-dealers that do not enter into such
allocation arrangements will likely greatly exceed the number of broker-dealers that do, even
taking into account broker-dealers who will enter into multiple allocation arrangements for one
transaction.
In the Proposing Release, the Commission solicited comments regarding the information
burden associated with a system for reviewing the effectiveness of risk management controls.
Several commenters asserted that the requirement for CEO certifications was overly burdensome

91

and unnecessary. 212 Many of the same commenters noted that in particular, the CEO
certification was duplicative because FINRA members are already required by FINRA Rule
3130 to perform annual reviews of their supervisory systems and obtain a certification from the
CEO. 213
The Commission believes that this certification requirement is an integral component of
the risk management controls and supervisory procedures contemplated by Rule 15c3-5, and
should help assure their effectiveness. As noted in the Proposing Release, the Commission also
believes that the CEO certification requirement should serve to bolster broker-dealer compliance
programs, and promote meaningful and purposeful interaction between business and compliance
personnel. 214 The Commission would expect, in many cases, the annual CEO certification
required under Rule 15c3-5(e)(2) to be completed in conjunction with a firm’s annual review and
certification of its supervisory systems pursuant to FINRA Rule 3130. However, the CEO
certification contemplated by the Rule is a separate and distinct certification from the FINRA
3130 certification or any other similar certification process. 215 That said, the Commission
believes a FINRA member could combine in the same document the CEO certification required
by Rule 15c3-5(e)(2) with the FINRA 3130 or other required certifications, so long as the
substance of each of the required certifications is contained in that document.
One commenter disagreed with the Commission’s finding that the ongoing legal and
compliance obligations under the proposed rule would be handled internally, arguing that the

212

See supra note 180.

213

See Engmann Letter at 2, Pershing Letter at 4, BIDS Letter at 4, ITG Letter at 9-10,
Scottrade Letter at 1, Deutsche Letter at 6-7, ABA Letter at 5-6, SIFMA Letter at 9.

214

See Proposing Release, 75 FR at 4015.

215

The Commission also notes that Rule 15c3-5(e)(2) may apply to broker-dealers that are
not FINRA members.

92

CEO compliance certification requirement would likely require the hiring of a consultant to
review controls because the Chief Executive is not likely to be a specialist in the area of risk
management and the development of computerized controls.216
However, the Commission has in fact accounted for the likelihood that the Chief
Executive Officer would not be a compliance specialist. In the Proposing Release, the
Commission estimated that the initial legal and compliance burden for a CEO would constitute
only 5 of the 35 total hours required, 217 on average, while internal compliance specialists would
be responsible for the remainder of the initial burden. 218 Such a burden allocation anticipates
that in practice, compliance experts will oversee the bulk of responsibilities for establishing
credit and capital thresholds and for modifying compliance policies, while the Chief Executive
Officer would retain the senior managerial responsibility to review the compliance experts’ work
and certify the controls’ effectiveness. Moreover, the Commission reiterates that these
compliance obligations are in fact consistent with the type of work that a broker-dealer typically
handles internally, especially for other certification processes such as the FINRA 3130 process,
as discussed above. The Commission is adopting Rule 15c3-5(e) as proposed, and with the
exception of the additional compliance burden from negotiating and preparing risk compliance
allocation agreements, is retaining its legal and compliance burden per-broker-dealer estimates as
proposed.
3.

Total Burden

216

See Lek Letter at 3.

217

As stated above, the Commission now estimates that the total initial legal and compliance
burden is 50 hours, and not 35.

218

See supra notes 210-211.

93

Under the Rule, the total initial burden for all respondents will be approximately 275,000
hours ([150 hours (for technology) + 50 hours (for legal and compliance)] × 1,375 brokers and
dealers = 275,000 hours) and the total ongoing annual burden would be approximately 240,625
hours ([115 hours (for technology) + 60 hours (for legal and compliance)] × 1,375 brokers and
dealers = 240,625 hours). For hardware and software expenses, the total initial cost for all
respondents will be $22,000,000 ($16,000 per broker-dealer × 1,375 brokers and dealers =
$22,000,000) and the total ongoing annual cost for all respondents would be $28,187,500
($20,500 per broker-dealer × 1,375 brokers and dealers = $28,187,500). The estimates of the
initial and annual burdens are based on discussions with potential respondents. It should be
noted that the total burden estimate has been increased from the Proposing Release’s total burden
estimate to reflect the revised number of respondents affected under the Rule.
IV.

Consideration of Costs and Benefits
The Commission is sensitive to the costs and benefits that result from its rules. In the

Proposing Release, the Commission identified certain costs and benefits of the Rule as proposed,
and requested comment on all aspects of the cost-benefit analysis, including the identification
and assessment of any costs and benefits that were not discussed in the analysis. The
Commission received several comments relating to the Commission’s cost-benefit analysis. For
the reasons discussed below, the Commission continues to believe that its estimates of the
benefits and costs of Rule 15c3-5, as set forth in the Proposing Release, are appropriate.
A.

Benefits

Rule 15c3-5 should benefit investors, brokers-dealers, their counterparties, and the
national market system as a whole by reducing the risks faced by broker-dealers and other
market participants as a result of various market access arrangements by requiring financial and

94

regulatory risk management controls to be implemented on a uniform, market-wide basis. The
financial and regulatory risk management controls should reduce risks to broker-dealers and
markets, as well as systemic risk associated with market access and enhance market integrity and
investor protection in the securities markets by effectively prohibiting the practice of “unfiltered”
or “naked” access to an exchange or ATS. The Rule will establish a uniform standard for a
broker or dealer with market access with respect to risk management controls and procedures
which should reduce the potential for regulatory arbitrage and lead to consistent interpretation
and enforcement of applicable regulatory requirements across markets.
One of the benefits of the Rule should be the reduction of systemic risk associated with
market access through the elimination of “unfiltered” or “naked” access. As discussed in the
Proposing Release, due in large part to technological advancements, the U.S. markets have
experienced a rise in the use and reliance of “sponsored access” arrangements where customers
place orders that are routed to markets with little or no substantive intermediation by a brokerdealer. The risk of unmonitored trading is heightened with the increased prominence of highspeed, high-volume, automated algorithmic trading, where orders can be routed for execution in
milliseconds. If a broker-dealer does not implement strong systematic controls, the broker or
dealer may be unaware of customer trading activity that is occurring under its MPID or
otherwise. In the “unfiltered” or “naked” access context, as well as with all market access
generally, the Commission is concerned that order entry errors could suddenly and significantly
make a broker-dealer and other market participants financially vulnerable within mere minutes or
seconds. Real examples of such potential catastrophic events have already occurred. For
instance, as discussed earlier, on September 30, 2008, trading in Google became extremely
volatile toward the end of the day trading, dropping 93% in value at one point, due to an influx

95

of erroneous orders onto an exchange from a single market participant which resulted in the
cancellation of numerous trades. 219
Without systematic risk protection, erroneous trades, whether resulting from manual
errors or a faulty automated, high-speed algorithm, could potentially expose a broker or dealer to
enormous financial burdens and disrupt the markets. Because the impact of such errors may be
most profound in the “unfiltered” access context, but are not unique to it, it is clearly in a broker
or dealer’s financial interest, and the interest of the U.S. markets as whole, to be shielded from
such a scenario regardless of the form of market access. The mitigation of significant systemic
risks should help ensure the integrity of the U.S. markets and provide the investing public with
greater confidence that intentional, bona fide transactions are being executed across the national
market system. Rule 15c3-5 should promote investor confidence as well as participation in the
market by enhancing the fair and efficient operation of the U.S. securities markets. Among other
things, the requirements of Rule 15c3-5 should promote fairness by establishing a level playing
field for broker-dealers that provide access to trading on an exchange or ATS and help to ensure
compliance with applicable regulatory requirements.
The national market system is currently exposed to risk that can result from unmonitored
order flow, as a recent report has estimated that “naked” access accounts for 38 percent of the
daily volume for equities traded in the U.S. markets.220 The Commission is aware that a certain
segment of the broker-dealer community has declined to incorporate “naked” access
arrangements into their business models because of the inherent risks of the practice. In the
absence of a Commission rule that would prohibit such market access, these brokers or dealers
219

See Google Trading Incident, supra note 16. See also SWS Trading Incident and Rambus
Trading Incident, supra note 16.

220

See supra note 13.

96

could be compelled by competitive and economic pressures to offer “naked” access to their
customers and thereby significantly increase a systemic vulnerability of the national market
system.
The Commission sought comment on the benefits associated with the Proposed Rule.
Most of the 47 comment letters expressed, to varying degrees, general agreement with the Rule’s
intent to decrease the potential for financial, regulatory, and systemic risks from sponsored
access arrangements. 221
B.

Costs

The Commission also requested comment on the costs associated with the Rule. As
already stated in the PRA section above, several commenters believed that the Commission did
not take into account either the increase in trading costs to clients of exchange members, or the
decrease in available liquidity in the market. 222 For example, one commenter asserted that the
Rule is too far-reaching in its scope, because it addresses types of market access that do not pose
significant risks, and will create duplicative, unnecessary and costly regulation in areas where
additional regulation is unneeded. 223 Another commenter believed that the Rule will impose

221

See Woodbine Letter at 1; Lek Letter at 1; Engmann Letter at 1; BATS Letter at 1;
Pershing Letter at 1; Fortis Letter at 1; FINRA Letter at 1; Nasdaq Letter at 1; BIDS
Letter at 1; FRB Chicago Letter at 1; STANY Letter at 1; MFA Letter at 1; NYSE Letter
at 1; ICI Letter at 1; Penson Letter at 1; Lime Letter at 1; ITG Letter at 2; Jane Street
Letter at 1; EWT Letter at 1; FTEN Letter at 1; Goldman Letter at 1; Scottrade Letter at
1; Deutsche Letter at 1; Wedbush Letter at 1; GETCO Letter at 2; ABA Letter at 1;
SIFMA Letter at 2; Carter Letter at 2; JP Morgan Letter at 1; Newedge Letter at 1; FIA
Letter at 3; letter to Elizabeth M. Murphy, Secretary, Commission, from Kevin Cuttica,
Chief Executive Officer, and David T. DeArmey, Chief Operating Officer, Sun Trading
LLC, March 26, 2010 (“Sun Letter”) at 1.

222

See Fortis Letter at 14-15, STANY Letter at 5-6, Jane Street Letter at 2, Scottrade Letter
at 1.

223

See STANY Letter at 6.

97

significant costs on some entities beyond just brokers and dealers that provide market access. 224
The commenter noted that the Rule’s effect would be to increase latency times and decrease
liquidity in the market as a whole. 225 Other commenters anticipated that the Rule will create new
costs for broker-dealers, who will then be forced to pass these costs along to end-clients in the
form of increased transaction costs. 226
The Commission recognizes that, by requiring all orders to be subject to regulatory and
financial risk controls, Rule 15c3-5 will likely impose market costs related to increased latency
times, reduced liquidity, and increased trading costs for broker-dealers. The Commission
recognizes that this could ultimately limit the algorithmic trading of some smaller proprietary
trading firms, and potentially lower overall trading volume. To the extent that lowered trading
volume leads to lower overall market liquidity, market participants may also incur additional
costs due to lost trading opportunities and the possibility that smaller broker-dealers may not be
able aggregate trade flow and obtain favorable tiered pricing.
Although the Commission acknowledges these potential costs, it also recognizes the
significant benefits that the Rule provides to the markets, such as the protection of market
integrity and efficiency. Although the Rule may indeed impose costs resulting from increased
latency times and reduced liquidity, the Commission believes that such costs are justified by the
benefits provided in preventing unfiltered market access and enhancing investor protection. The
Rule requirements are intended to minimize unnecessary and inefficient systemic risk from the
markets.

224

See ABA Letter at 6.

225

See ABA Letter at 6-7.

226

See Carter Letter at 5.

98

Regarding the comments that the Rule would create duplicative, unnecessary and costly
regulation, the Commission continues to believe that, in many cases, particularly with respect to
proprietary trading and more traditional agency brokerage activities, the Rule 15c3-5 may be
substantially satisfied by existing risk management controls and supervisory procedures already
implemented by broker-dealers. For these broker-dealers, Rule 15c3-5 should have a minimal
impact on current business practices and, therefore, should not impose significant additional
costs on these broker-dealers. Moreover, the Commission reiterates that the Rule does not
require, and was never intended to require, multiple or duplicative layers of pre-trade controls for
a single order. As stated in the Proposing Release, the Commission intends these controls and
procedures to encompass existing regulatory requirements applicable to broker-dealers in
connection with market access, and not to substantively expand upon them.
1.

Technology Development and Maintenance

As described in the Proposing Release, broker-dealers with market access may comply
with the Rule in several ways. A broker-dealer may choose to internally develop risk
management controls from scratch, or upgrade its existing systems; each of these approaches has
potential costs that are divided into initial costs and annual ongoing costs. Alternatively, a
broker-dealer may choose to purchase a risk management solution from an outside vendor. As
stated above, it is likely that many broker-dealers with market access would be able to
substantially satisfy the Rule with their current risk management controls and supervisory
procedures, requiring few material changes. However, for others, the costs of upgrading and
introducing the required systems would vary considerably based on their current controls and
procedures, as well as their particular business models. For instance, the needs of a brokerdealer would vary based on its current systems and controls in place, the comprehensiveness of

99

its controls and procedures, the sophistication of its client base, the types of trading strategies
that it utilizes, the number of trading venues it connects to, the number of connections that it has
to each trading market, and the volume and speed of its trading activity.
Commission staff’s discussions with industry participants found that broker-dealers who
must develop or substantially upgrade existing systems could face several months of work
requiring considerable time and effort. For example, in the Proposing Release, the Commission
estimated that developing a system from scratch could take approximately three months, while
upgrading a pre-existing risk control management system could take approximately two weeks.
In the Proposing Release, Commission staff estimated that the initial cost for an internal
development team to develop or substantially upgrade an existing risk control system would be
$51,000 per broker-dealer, 227 or $66.0 million for 1,295 broker-dealers. The Commission further
227

See supra note 199. The Commission estimated that the average initial cost of $51,000
per broker-dealer consists of $35,000 for technology personnel and $16,000 for hardware
and software. As stated in the PRA section, industry sources estimated that the average
system development team consists of one or more programmer analysts, senior
programmers, and senior systems analysts. The Commission estimated that the
programmer analyst would work 40% of the total hours required for initial development,
or 150 hours × 0.40 = 60 hours; the senior programmer would work 20% of the total
hours, or 150 hours × 0.20 = 30 hours; and the senior systems analyst would work 40% of
the total hours, or 150 hours × 0.40 = 60 hours. The total initial development cost for
staff was estimated to be 60 hours × $193 (hourly wage for a programmer analyst) + 30
hours × $292 (hourly wage for a senior programmer) + 60 hours × $244 (hourly wage for
a senior systems analyst) = $34,980, or $35,000.
The $193, $292, and $244 per hour estimates for a programmer analyst, senior
programmer, and senior systems analyst, respectively, is from SIFMA’s Office Salaries
in the Securities Industry 2008, modified by Commission staff to account for an 1,800hour work-year and multiplied by 5.35 to account for bonuses, firm size, employee
benefits and overhead.
The Commission estimated that the average initial hardware and software cost is $16,000
per broker-dealer. Industry sources estimated that to build a risk control management
system from scratch, hardware would cost $44,500 and software would cost $58,000,
while to upgrade a pre-existing risk control management system, hardware would cost
$5,000 and software would cost $6,517. Based on discussions with industry participants,
the Commission estimated that 95% of all respondents would require modifications and
100

estimated that the total annual ongoing cost to maintain an in-house risk control management
system is $47,300 per broker-dealer, 228 or $61.3 million for 1,295 broker-dealers.
For this Adopting Release, the Commission is updating the total annual initial and
ongoing technology costs to reflect the revised number of respondents, which has been changed
from 1,295 to 1,375 broker-dealers. 229 The Commission’s per-broker-dealer cost estimates of
$51,000 for initial costs and $47,000 for annual ongoing costs remain the same. Commission
staff now estimates that the total initial cost for internal development teams to develop or
substantially upgrade existing risk control systems would be approximately $70.1 million for
1,375 broker-dealers, while the total ongoing annual cost to maintain in-house risk control
management systems would be approximately $65.0 million for 1,375 broker-dealers.

upgrades only, and 5% would require development of a system from scratch. Therefore,
the total average hardware and software cost for an initial internal development project
would be approximately (0.95 × $11,517) + (0.05 × $102,500) = $16,066, or $16,000.
228

See supra note 202. The Commission estimated that the average annual ongoing cost of
$47,300 per broker-dealer consists of $26,800 for technology personnel and $20,500 for
hardware and software. The Commission estimated that the programmer analyst would
work 40% of the total hours required for ongoing maintenance, or 115 hours × 0.40 = 46
hours; the senior programmer would work 20% of the total hours, or 115 hours × 0.20 =
23 hours; and the senior systems analyst would work 40% of the total hours, or 115 hours
× 0.40 = 46 hours. The total ongoing maintenance cost for staff was estimated to be 46
hours × $193 (hourly wage for a programmer analyst) + 23 hours × $292 (hourly wage
for a senior programmer) + 46 hours × $244 (hourly wage for a senior systems analyst) =
$26,818, or $26,800.
The $193, $292, and $244 per hour estimates for a programmer analyst, senior
programmer, and senior systems analyst, respectively, is from SIFMA’s Office Salaries
in the Securities Industry 2008, modified by Commission staff to account for an 1,800hour work-year and multiplied by 5.35 to account for bonuses, firm size, employee
benefits and overhead.
The Commission estimated that the average annual ongoing hardware and software cost
is $20,500 per broker-dealer. Industry sources estimated that for ongoing maintenance,
hardware would cost $8,900 on average and software would cost $11,600 on average.
The total average hardware and software cost for ongoing maintenance would be $8,900
+ $11,600 = $20,500.

229

See supra Section III.C.
101

The Commission also considered how permitting broker-dealers to allocate risk
compliance responsibilities to a customer that is a registered broker-dealer would affect the
Commission’s calculations of total initial and annual technology costs. As already noted above,
the Commission determined that in estimating the additional initial and ongoing technology
costs, these considerations would not affect estimated costs in a meaningful way. As concluded
with the technology burdens, the Commission expects that any additional technology costs that
broker-dealers accrue to add other broker-dealer transactions to their risk management systems
will be justified by the sponsored broker-dealers’ reduced technology costs from relying on other
broker-dealers’ risk management systems. Commission staff believes that such an assumption is
reasonable given the relatively small technology burdens that sponsored broker-dealers currently
have as part of their current risk compliance allocation arrangements.
As in the Proposing Release, we reiterate that the potential range of costs would vary
considerably, depending upon the needs of the broker-dealer. Returning to the same example
used in the Proposing Release, we provide an illustrative set of calculations for a scenario where
5% of respondents under the Rule need to build risk control management systems from scratch,
while the other 95% only need to upgrade and modify their pre-existing risk control management
systems.
If 69 broker-dealers – i.e., 5% of the 1,375 broker-dealers affected under the rule – were
to build risk control management systems from scratch, the total initial technology cost would be
approximately $18.7 million. A team of 1.5 people, working full-time for 3 months, would work
an estimated total of 720 burden hours on the project. The resulting personnel cost to build such
a risk control management system would be approximately $167,904 per broker-dealer, or
$11,585,380 for 69 broker-dealers. The hardware and software cost to build a risk control

102

management system from scratch would be $102,500 per broker-dealer, or $7,072,500 for 69
broker-dealers. The combined personnel, hardware, and software cost would be $18.7 million.
By contrast, if the remaining 1,306 broker-dealers were to upgrade and modify their preexisting risk control management systems, the total initial technology cost for those 1,306
broker-dealers would be approximately $51.6 million. A team of 1.5 people, working full-time
for 2 weeks, would work an estimated total of 120 burden hours on the project. The resulting
staff cost to upgrade and modify a pre-existing risk control management system would be
approximately $27,984 per broker-dealer, or $36.5 million for 1,306 broker-dealers. The
hardware and software cost to upgrade and modify a risk control management system would be
$11,517 per broker-dealer, or $15.0 million for 1,306 broker-dealers. The combined personnel,
hardware, and software cost would be $51.6 million.
Rather than developing or upgrading systems, broker-dealers may choose to purchase a
risk management solution from a third-party vendor. Potential costs of contracting with such a
vendor were obtained from industry participants. Here again, the potential range of costs would
vary considerably, depending upon the needs of the broker-dealer. For instance, the needs of a
broker-dealer would vary based on its current systems and controls in place, the
comprehensiveness of its controls and procedures, the sophistication of its client base, the types
of trading strategies that it utilizes, the number of trading venues it connects to, the number of
connections that it has to each trading market, and the volume and speed of its trading activity.
As discussed previously, a broker-dealer is estimated to pay as much as approximately $4,000
per month per trading venue for a startup contract depending on its particular needs. In the
Proposing Release, the Commission estimated $8,000 per month (i.e., connection to two trading

103

venues), or $96,000 annually, for a startup contract. 230 For instance, the Commission estimates
that if 69 broker-dealers (or, 5% of respondents) choose to purchase systems from a third-party
vendor as an alternative to building a risk control management system from scratch, 231 the cost
to the industry for initial startup contracts could be approximately $6,240,000. 232 The
Commission preliminarily believes that the annual ongoing cost would be significantly less than
the initial startup cost; however, to be conservative, we estimate that the annual ongoing cost for
69 broker-dealers would be the same as the startup estimate of $6,624,000 per year.
The Commission requested comment on the technology cost estimates. Numerous
commenters responded by asserting that the actual technology costs will be significantly higher
than the estimates from the Proposing Release.233 Of these, three commenters cited specific
technology cost estimates of their own. One estimated that the cost to either build or buy the
appropriate technology alone would be $500,000 to $1 million per year; 234 another asserted that
maintenance from outside vendors would cost more than $1 million per year, while building a
solution in-house would cost roughly $750,000; 235 and another stated that the cost to build the
appropriate systems would be more than $2 million per year. 236
230

See supra Section III.D.1.

231

As stated previously, the Commission estimates that 5% of all broker-dealers will require
development of a system from scratch. See supra note 198. Based on discussions with
various industry participants, the Commission believes that a total of 69 broker-dealers is
a reasonable estimate here.

232

69 broker-dealers × $96,000 (annual cost for a startup contract with a third-party
technology provider or service bureau) = $6,624,000.

233

See Pershing Letter at 4, Fortis Letter at 18, STANY Letter at 4-5, Scottrade Letter at 1,
Deutsche Letter at 6, Wedbush Letter at 5-6, ConvergEx Letter at 9, and CBOE Letter at
1, 4.

234

See Pershing Letter at 4.

235

See ConvergEx Letter at 9.

236

See Wedbush Letter at 6.

104

The Commission recognizes that technology and maintenance costs will vary depending
on the size of the broker or dealer and the extent to which it already complies with the
requirements described in the Rule. The Commission notes that, like its initial estimates for
technology outsourcing costs, its initial estimates for in-house technology and maintenance costs
are weighted averages, and that these estimates skew lower because the Commission estimates
that, based on discussions with various industry participants, the majority of broker-dealers that
provide market access, if they are not already fully compliant, are close to full compliance and
are not expected to incur significant additional technology costs. Numerous industry sources
have stated that, for brokers-dealers who perform technology maintenance in-house, it would
take no longer than two or three days to program any compliance adjustments. The Commission
therefore continues to believe that its cost estimates for technology are reasonable, and retains its
technology cost-per-broker-dealer estimates as proposed. However, the industry-wide
technology cost estimate has been increased to reflect the revised number of respondents affected
under the Rule.
2.

Legal and Compliance

Under the Rule, a broker or dealer will be obligated to comply with all applicable
regulatory requirements such as exchange trading rules relating to special order types, trading
halts, odd-lot orders, and SEC rules under Regulation SHO and Regulation NMS. Accordingly,
the Commission believes that the overall cost increase associated with developing and
maintaining compliance policies and procedures is not expected to be significant because the
Rule may be substantially satisfied by existing risk management controls and supervisory
procedures already implemented by brokers-dealer that conduct proprietary trading, traditional
brokerage activities, direct market access, and sponsored access. Therefore, many of the

105

financial and regulatory risk management controls specified in the Rule – such as prevention of
trading restricted products, or setting of trade limits – should already be in place and should not
require significant additional expenditure of resources.
In the Proposing Release, the Commission estimated that the initial cost for a brokerdealer to comply with the proposed requirement to establish, document, and maintain compliance
policies and supervisory procedures would be approximately $28,200 per broker-dealer, or $36.5
million for 1,295 broker-dealers. 237 Specifically, the costs for setting credit and capital
thresholds would be approximately $2,640, 238 and the modification or establishment of
applicable compliance policies and procedures would be approximately $25,555 per brokerdealer. 239

237

The Commission has revised the number of respondents affected by the Rule. See supra
Section III.C.

238

The Commission estimated that one compliance attorney and one compliance manager
would each require 5 hours, for a total initial burden of 10 hours. See supra Section
III.B.2. The total initial cost for staff was estimated to be 5 hours × $270 (hourly wage
for a compliance attorney) + 5 hours × $258 (hourly wage for a compliance manager) =
$2,640.
The $270 and $258 per hour estimates for a compliance attorney and compliance
manager, respectively, is from SIFMA’s Office Salaries in the Securities Industry 2008,
modified by Commission staff to account for an 1,800-hour work-year and multiplied by
5.35 to account for bonuses, firm size, employee benefits and overhead.

239

The Commission estimated that one compliance attorney and one compliance manager
would each require 10 hours, while the Chief Executive Officer would require 5 hours,
for a total initial burden of 25 hours. See supra Section III.B.2. The total initial cost for
staff was estimated to be 10 hours × $270 (hourly wage for a compliance attorney) + 10
hours × $258 (hourly wage for a compliance manager) + 5 hours × $4,055 (hourly wage
for a Chief Executive Officer) = $25,555.
The $270 and $258 per hour estimates for a compliance attorney and compliance
manager, respectively, is from SIFMA’s Office Salaries in the Securities Industry 2008,
modified by Commission staff to account for an 1,800-hour work-year and multiplied by
5.35 to account for bonuses, firm size, employee benefits and overhead. The $4,055 per
hour figure for a broker-dealer Chief Executive Officer comes from the median of June
2008 Large Bank Executive Compensation data from TheCorporateLibrary.com, divided
by 1800 hours per work-year. We invited comments on whether large bank Chief
106

The Commission further estimated that the costs of the annual review, modification of
applicable compliance policies and supervisory procedures, and preservation of such records
would be approximately $30,800 per broker-dealer, or $39.9 million for 1,295 broker-dealers.
Specifically, compliance attorneys who review, document, and update written compliance
policies and procedures would cost an estimated $5,400 per year; 240 a compliance manager who
reviews, documents, and updates written compliance policies and procedures is expected to cost
$5,160; 241 and the Chief Executive Officer, who certifies the policies and procedures, would cost
$20,275. 242
For this Adopting Release, the Commission is updating the total initial and ongoing legal
and compliance costs to reflect the revised number of respondents, which has been changed from
1,295 to 1,375 broker-dealers. 243 Moreover, the Commission is revising its per-broker-dealer
compliance cost estimates to account for the additional task of negotiating and preparing risk
Executive Officer total compensation is an appropriate proxy for broker-dealer Chief
Executive Officer total compensation, but received none.
240

20 hours (total annual ongoing compliance hourly burden for a compliance attorney) ×
$270 (hourly wage for a compliance attorney) = $5,400. The $270 per hour estimate for
a compliance attorney is from SIFMA’s Office Salaries in the Securities Industry 2008,
modified by Commission staff to account for an 1,800-hour work-year and multiplied by
5.35 to account for bonuses, firm size, employee benefits and overhead.

241

20 hours (total annual ongoing compliance hourly burden for a compliance manager) ×
$258 (hourly wage for a compliance manager) = $5,160. The $258 per hour estimate for
a compliance manager is from SIFMA’s Office Salaries in the Securities Industry 2008,
modified by Commission staff to account for an 1,800-hour work-year and multiplied by
5.35 to account for bonuses, firm size, employee benefits and overhead.

242

5 hours (total annual ongoing compliance hourly burden for a Chief Executive Officer) ×
$4,055 (hourly wage for a Chief Executive Officer) = $20,275. The $4,055 per hour
figure for a broker-dealer Chief Executive Officer comes from the median of June 2008
Large Bank Executive Compensation data from TheCorporateLibrary.com, divided by
1800 hours per work-year. We invited comments on whether large bank Chief Executive
Officer total compensation is an appropriate proxy for broker-dealer Chief Executive
Officer total compensation, but received none.

243

See supra Section III.C.

107

compliance allocation agreements. The Commission anticipates that compliance attorneys who
prepare risk allocation agreements would cost an estimated $2,700 per year, 244 while compliance
managers who participate in this process would cost an estimated $1,290 per year. 245 The
Commission believes that the additional compliance costs for negotiating and preparing risk
compliance allocation contracts will be the same for both initial and ongoing efforts.
Commission staff now estimates that the total initial cost for a broker-dealer to comply
with the proposed requirement to establish, document, and maintain compliance policies and
supervisory procedures would be approximately $32,200 per broker-dealer, 246 or $44.3 million
for 1,375 broker-dealers. Meanwhile, the total annual ongoing cost to maintain in-house risk
control management systems would be approximately $34,800 per broker-dealer, 247 or $47.9
million for 1,375 broker-dealers.
The Commission believed that the ongoing legal and compliance obligations under the
proposed rule would be handled internally because compliance with these obligations is
consistent with the type of work that a broker-dealer typically handles internally. The

244

10 hours (allocation contracts hourly burden for a compliance attorney) × $270 (hourly
wage for a compliance attorney) = $2,700. The $270 per hour estimate for a compliance
attorney is from SIFMA’s Office Salaries in the Securities Industry 2008, modified by
Commission staff to account for an 1,800-hour work-year and multiplied by 5.35 to
account for bonuses, firm size, employee benefits and overhead.

245

5 hours (allocation contracts hourly burden for a compliance manager) × $258 (hourly
wage for a compliance manager) = $1,290. The $258 per hour estimate for a compliance
manager is from SIFMA’s Office Salaries in the Securities Industry 2008, modified by
Commission staff to account for an 1,800-hour work-year and multiplied by 5.35 to
account for bonuses, firm size, employee benefits and overhead.

246

The new total initial compliance cost per broker-dealer is $28,200 (Proposing Release
estimate) + $2,700 + $1,290 (additional costs for allocation contracts) = $32,190.

247

The new total annual ongoing compliance cost per broker-dealer is $30,800 (Proposing
Release estimate) + $2,700 + $1,290 (additional costs for allocation contracts) = $34,790.

108

Commission did not believe that a broker-dealer would likely have any recurring external costs
associated with legal and compliance obligations.
The Commission requested comment on the estimated costs of the legal and compliance
obligations. One commenter asserted that the cost of compliance will exceed 10 to 20 times the
amount projected by the Commission. The commenter noted that the cost of receiving and
processing market data for hundreds of thousands of symbols (including options) alone will
exceed the Commission’s estimated compliance costs. 248 Moreover, the commenter believed
that because it would be unlikely for a CEO to be a compliance specialist, a broker or dealer
would more likely need to hire a consultant to review the controls, which would likely cost
between $500,000 and $1 million per year. 249
The Commission continues to believe that the cost to develop and maintain compliance
policies and procedures will not be significant for most brokers-dealers. The Commission
stresses that its estimate of the compliance cost represents an average of the cost associated with
all compliance requirements referenced in the Rule and, on balance, believes that overall costs
are accounted for in the $32,200 initial cost and the $34,800 ongoing annual costs per brokerdealer. Moreover, similar to the technology costs, the compliance cost is a weighted average that
skews lower because most brokers and dealers who already maintain compliance policies and
procedures will not face significantly greater costs. Although several broker-dealers may indeed
incur a cost of compliance that will exceed the amount estimated in the Proposing Release, the
Commission anticipates that these broker-dealers will be significantly outnumbered by brokersdealers who will incur minimal additional costs. With the exception of the additional costs to

248

See Lek Letter at 3.

249

Id.

109

account for negotiating and preparing risk compliance allocation agreements, the Commission
retains its compliance cost estimates as previously stated in the Proposing Release.
As already stated above, the Commission has in fact accounted for the likelihood that the
Chief Executive Officer would not be a compliance specialist. In the Proposing Release, the
Commission estimated that the initial legal and compliance burden for a CEO would constitute
only 5 of the 35 total hours required, 250 on average, while internal compliance specialists would
be responsible for the remainder of the initial burden. Such a burden allocation anticipates that
compliance experts will oversee the bulk of responsibilities for establishing credit and capital
thresholds and for modifying compliance policies, while the Chief Executive Officer would
retain the senior managerial responsibility to review and certify the controls’ effectiveness.
Moreover, the Commission reiterates that these compliance obligations are in fact consistent
with the type of work that a broker-dealer typically handles internally, especially since brokerdealers typically rely on internal resources for other certification processes such as the FINRA
3130 process, as discussed above. The Commission is adopting Rule 15c3-5(e) as proposed, and
is largely retaining its legal and compliance burden per-broker-dealer estimates as proposed.
3.

Total Cost

The Commission believes that this Rule would have its greatest impact on broker-dealers
that provide “unfiltered” or “naked” access, and that the majority of broker-dealers with market
access are likely to be able to substantially satisfy the requirements of the Rule with much of
their current existing risk management controls and supervisory procedures. However, for
broker-dealers that would need to develop or substantially upgrade their systems the cost would
vary considerably.
250

As stated above, the Commission now estimates that the total initial legal and compliance
burden is 50 hours, and not 35. See supra Section III.D.2.

110

We note that the potential range of costs would vary considerably, depending upon the
needs of the broker-dealer and its current risk management controls and supervisory procedures.
Once again, we provide an illustrative set of calculations for a scenario where 5% of respondents
under the Rule need to build risk control management systems from scratch, while the other 95%
only need to upgrade and modify their pre-existing risk control management systems.
The Commission estimates that if 69 broker-dealers build risk management systems from
scratch and modify their compliance procedures accordingly, the total initial cost could be
approximately as much as $20.9 million. The cost to build the risk control management systems
would be $18.7 million for 69 broker-dealers, 251 while the cost to initially develop or modify
compliance procedures for the same would be approximately $32,200 per broker-dealer, 252 or
$2.2 million for 69 broker-dealers. The total initial cost to build systems from scratch is thus
estimated to be approximately $20.9 million.
By contrast, the Commission estimates that if the remaining 1,306 broker-dealers would
upgrade their pre-existing risk control management systems and modify their compliance
procedures accordingly, the total initial cost would be approximately as much as $93.6 million.
The cost to upgrade the risk control management systems would be $51.6 million for 1,306
broker-dealers, 253 while the cost to initially develop or modify compliance procedures for the
same would be approximately $32,200 per broker-dealer, 254 or $42.1 million for 1,306 brokerdealers. The total initial cost is thus estimated to be approximately $93.6 million.

251

See supra Section IV.B.1.

252

See supra Section IV.B.2.

253

See supra Section IV.B.1.

254

See supra Section IV.B.2.

111

The total annual initial cost for all 1,375 broker-dealers is estimated to be approximately
$114.4 million. 255
The total annual ongoing cost for all 1,375 broker-dealers to maintain a risk management
control system and annual review and modification of applicable compliance policies and
procedures could be approximately as much as $112.9 million. The annual technology cost to
maintain a risk management control system would be approximately $47,300 per brokerdealer, 256 or $65 million for 1,375 broker-dealers, while the cost for annual review and
modification of applicable compliance policies and procedures would be approximately $34,800
per broker-dealer, 257 or $47.9 million for 1,375 broker-dealers. The total annual ongoing cost for
all 1,375 broker-dealers is estimated to be approximately $112.9 million. It should be noted that
the total cost estimate has been increased from the Proposing Release’s total cost estimate to
reflect the revised number of respondents affected under the Rule.
The Commission believes that in many cases broker-dealers whose business activities
include proprietary trading, traditional agency brokerage activities, and direct market access,
would find that their current risk management controls and supervisory procedures may
substantially satisfy the requirements of the Rule, and require minimal material modifications.
Such broker or dealers would experience the market-wide benefits of the proposal with limited
additional costs related to their own compliance.
V.

Consideration of Burden on Competition, and Promotion of Efficiency, Competition
and Capital Formation

255

$20.9 million (initial cost for 69 broker-dealers building a system from scratch) + $93.6
million (initial cost for 1,306 broker-dealers upgrading pre-existing systems) =
approximately $114.4 million.

256

See supra note 228.

257

See supra notes 240, 241, and 242.

112

Section 3(f) of the Exchange Act 258 requires the Commission, whenever it engages in
rulemaking and is required to consider or determine whether an action is necessary or
appropriate in the public interest, to consider, in addition to the protection of investors, whether
the action would promote efficiency, competition, and capital formation. In addition, Section
23(a)(2) of the Exchange Act 259 requires the Commission, when making rules under the
Exchange Act, to consider the impact of such rules on competition. Section 23(a)(2) also
prohibits the Commission from adopting any rule that would impose a burden on competition not
necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Exchange Act.
A.

Competition

In the Proposing Release, we considered in turn the impact of Proposed Rule 15c3-5 on
the market center and broker-dealer industries. Information provided by market centers and
broker-dealers in their registrations and filings with us and with FINRA informs our views on the
structure of the markets in these industries. We begin our consideration of potential competitive
impacts with observations of the current structure of these markets.
The broker-dealer industry, including market makers, is a highly competitive industry,
with most trading activity concentrated among several dozen large participants and with
thousands of small participants competing for niche or regional segments of the market.
There are approximately 5,178 registered broker-dealers, of which 890 are small brokerdealers. 260 The Commission estimates that 1,295 brokers or dealers would have market access as

258

15 U.S.C. 78c(f).

259

15 U.S.C. 78w(a)(2).

260

These numbers are based on the Commission’s staff review of 2007 and 2008 FOCUS
Report filings reflecting registered broker-dealers. The number does not include brokerdealers that are delinquent on FOCUS Report filings.

113

defined under the proposed rule. 261 In addition, the Commission estimates that 80 brokers or
dealers operate registered, active ATSs, bringing the total estimate of broker-dealers that would
be subject to the requirements of the rule to 1,375. Of these 1,375 brokers or dealers, the
Commission estimates that approximately 21 of those are small broker-dealers. To limit costs
and make business more viable, small broker-dealers often contract with larger broker-dealers to
handle certain functions, such as clearing and execution, or to update their technology. Larger
broker-dealers typically enjoy economies of scale over small broker-dealers and compete with
each other to service the smaller broker-dealers, who are both their competitors and their
customers.
Rule 15c3-5 is intended to address a broker-dealer’s obligations generally with respect to
market access risk management controls across markets, to prohibit the practice of “unfiltered”
or “naked” access to an exchange or an ATS where customer order flow does not pass through
the broker-dealer’s systems or filters prior or to entry on an exchange or ATS, and to provide
uniform standards that would be interpreted and enforced in a consistent manner. Such
requirements may promote competition by establishing a level playing field for broker-dealers in
market access, in that each broker or dealer would be subject to the same requirements in
providing access.
The Rule will require brokers or dealers that offer market access, including those
providing sponsored or direct market access to customers, to implement appropriate risk
management controls and supervisory procedures to manage the financial and regulatory risks of
this business activity. As noted above, we expect there to be costs of implementing and

261

Proposing Release, 75 FR at 4018.

114

monitoring these systems. However, we do not believe that the costs overall will create or
increase any burdens of entry into the broker-dealer industry.
The costs to implement appropriate risk management controls and supervisory procedures
to manage the financial and regulatory risks may disproportionately impact small- or mediumsized broker-dealers. In particular, the costs of instituting such controls and procedures could be
a larger portion of revenues for small- and medium-sized broker-dealers than for larger broker
dealers. In addition, to the extent that the cost of obtaining sponsored access increases, the
increases could be a larger portion of the revenues of small and medium-sized broker-dealers.
This could impair the ability of small- and medium-sized broker-dealers to compete for order
routing business with larger firms, limiting choice and incentives for innovation in the broker
dealer industry. However, the effect on smaller broker-dealers could be mitigated, to some
extent, by purchasing a risk management solution from a third-party vendor.
The trading industry is a highly competitive one, characterized by ease of entry. In fact,
the intensity of competition across trading platforms in this industry has increased dramatically
in the past decade as a result of market reforms and technological advances. This increase in
competition has resulted in substantial decreases in market concentration, effective competition
for the securities exchanges, a proliferation of trading platforms competing for order flow, and
significant decreases in trading fees. The low barriers to entry for equity trading venues are
shown by new entities, primarily ATSs, continuing to enter the market. Currently, there are
approximately 50 registered ATSs that trade equity securities. The Commission within the past
few years has approved applications by BATS and Nasdaq to become registered as national
securities exchanges for trading equities, and approved proposed rule changes by two existing
exchanges – ISE and CBOE – to add equity trading facilities to their existing options business.

115

Moreover, on March 12, 2010, Direct Edge received formal approval from the Commission for
its platforms to operate as facilities to two newly created national securities exchanges. We
believe that competition among trading centers has been facilitated by Rule 611 of Regulation
NMS, 262 which encourages quote-based competition between trading centers; Rule 605 of
Regulation NMS, 263 which empowers investors and broker-dealers to compare execution quality
statistics across trading centers; and Rule 606 of Regulation NMS, 264 which enables customers to
monitor order routing practices.
Market centers compete with each other in several ways. National exchanges compete to
list securities; market centers compete to attract order flow to facilitate executions; and market
centers compete to offer access to their markets to members or subscribers. In this last area of
competition, one could argue that the ability to access a market through sponsored access or
direct market access could substitute for becoming a member or subscriber. Of course, there are
both benefits and responsibilities in being a member or subscriber that do not accrue directly to
someone using sponsored access or direct market access. Nonetheless, to the extent that these
forms of market access are substitutes for membership, an increase in the costs of sponsored
access or direct market access may make a potential member more likely to decide to become a
member or subscriber. At the same time, market centers may reduce the cost of access to
members or subscribers in order to attract trading flow to their venue.
The Commission solicited comments regarding the effect of the Rule on competition
among market centers and broker-dealers. A number of commenters argued that the Rule will
lead to small liquidity providers being driven from the market and an increased concentration of
262

17 CFR 242.611.

263

17 CFR 242.605.

264

17 CFR 242.606.

116

firms providing market access, thus reducing the available choice for end-clients. 265
Specifically, one commenter noted in particular that without sponsored access, smaller brokerdealers will be unable to compete with larger market participants because direct exchange
connectivity and lower latency times are cost-prohibitive for smaller competitors. 266 Moreover,
smaller broker-dealers rely on trade flow aggregation to reach the most favorable fee tiers and
overcome the handicap of uncompetitive pricing.267
The Commission acknowledges that the Rule may indeed have adverse competitive
effects on small broker-dealers. The Commission nevertheless places particular emphasis on the
significant benefits that the Rule provides to the markets, such as the protection of market
integrity and efficiency. Although the Rule may indeed lead to a consolidation among smaller
brokers and dealers that would in turn potentially reduce competition among broker-dealers and
increase trading costs for consumers, the Commission believes that such costs are justified by the
benefits provided to investors, and the financial system as a whole, in preventing unfiltered
market access. After careful consideration of the relevant facts and comments received, the
Commission has determined that any burden on competition imposed by Rule 15c3-5 is
necessary or appropriate in the furtherance of the purposes of the Exchange Act noted above.
B.

Capital Formation

A purpose of Rule 15c3-5 is to strengthen investor confidence and, in doing so, to give
investors greater incentive to participate in the markets, resulting in the promotion of capital
formation. In deciding to adopt the Rule, the Commission has given significant consideration to
the potential undermining of public confidence in the securities markets resulting from disorderly
265

See Fortis Letter at 16, Jane Street Letter at 2.

266

See Jane Street Letter at 2.

267

Id.

117

markets that could result from inadequate risk management controls and unfiltered sponsored
access. The Commission believes that the mitigation of the risk of disorderly markets should
help ensure the integrity of the U.S. markets and provide the investing public with greater
confidence that intentional, bona fide transactions are being executed across the national market
system. Rule 15c3-5 should promote confidence as well as participation in the market by
enhancing the fair and efficient operation of the U.S. securities markets, thus promoting capital
formation.
One commenter contended that the Rule’s measures alone will likely have an
insignificant effect on market integrity and protection of the public interest, as they are targeted
towards systemic risk and not investor protection. 268 The Commission disagrees with the
commenter’s delineation between systemic risk and investor protection and the implicit
assumption that the two are mutually exclusive. The Commission strongly believes that by
helping to prevent unfiltered sponsored access, the Rule reduces the risk of disorderly markets.
The Rule is expected to bolster investors’ confidence that the markets are less likely to
experience such unpredictable events, thus increasing market participants’ incentive to remain
invested in the markets and bolstering capital formation.
C.

Efficiency

By addressing broker-dealer obligations with respect to market access risk controls across
markets, and by having the effect of prohibiting “unfiltered” or “naked” access, the Rule would
provide uniform standards that would be interpreted and enforced in a consistent manner. Rule
15c3-5 would help to facilitate and maintain stability in the markets and help ensure that they
function efficiently.

268

See Fortis Letter at 14.

118

In recent years, the development and growth of automated electronic trading has allowed
ever increasing volumes of securities transactions across the multitude of trading centers that
constitute the U.S. national market system. The Commission believes that the risk management
controls and procedures that brokers and dealers would be required to include as part of their
compliance systems should help prevent erroneous and unintended trades from occurring and
thereby contribute to market efficiency. For example, Rule 15c3-5 requires that a broker-dealer
with market access implement pre-trade risk management controls that, among other things,
prevent the entry of erroneous or duplicative orders. These types of pre-trade risk management
controls should serve to limit the number of erroneous or unintended orders from entering an
exchange or ATS, thereby limiting the occurrence of erroneous or unintended executions. The
Commission believes that certainty of an execution is integral to the operations of an efficient
market. By limiting the potential for erroneous executions, Rule 15c3-5 should serve to enhance
market efficiency by minimizing the number of trades that are subsequently broken and enhance
price efficiency by ensuring that publicly reported transaction prices are valid.
VI.

Final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis
The Commission has prepared the following Final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis

(“FRFA”), in accordance with the provisions of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (“RFA”), 269
regarding Rule 15c3-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
A.

Need for Rule 15c3-5

Over the past decade, the proliferation of sophisticated, high-speed trading technology
has changed the way broker-dealers trade for their accounts and as an agent for their customers.
Current SRO rules and interpretations governing electronic access to markets have sought to

269

5 U.S.C. 604(a).

119

address the risks of this activity. However, the Commission believes that more comprehensive
standards that apply consistently across the markets are needed to effectively manage the
financial, regulatory, and other risks, such as legal and operational risks, associated with market
access.
The Commission notes that these risks are present whenever a broker-dealer trades as a
member of an exchange or subscriber to an ATS, whether for its own proprietary account or as
agent for its customers, including traditional agency brokerage and through direct market access
or sponsored access arrangements. For this reason, new Rule 15c3-5 is drafted broadly to cover
all forms of access to trading on an exchange or ATS provided directly by a broker-dealer. The
Commission believes a broker-dealer with market access should assure the same basic types of
controls are in place whenever it uses its special position as a member of an exchange, or
subscriber to an ATS, to access those markets as well as when a broker-dealer operator of an
ATS provides access to its ATS to a non-broker-dealer. The Commission, however, is
particularly concerned about the quality of broker-dealer risk controls in sponsored access
arrangements, where the customer order flow does not pass through the broker-dealer’s systems
prior to entry on an exchange or ATS.
B.

Significant Issues Raised by Public Comment

In the Proposing Release, the Commission requested comment on matters discussed in
the IRFA. 270 While the Commission did receive comment letters that discussed the overall
number of respondents that would be affected by the proposed new rule, 271 the Commission did
not receive any comments that specifically addressed the number of small entities that would be
affected.
270

See Proposing Release, 75 FR at 4028.

271

See supra Section III.C.

120

Several commenters stated that the Rule would have an impact on smaller broker-dealers.
The commenters noted that sponsored access is a competitive tool for small broker-dealers that
serves to level the playing field between smaller and larger market participants. 272 By
prohibiting unfiltered sponsored access, the Rule would prevent small broker-dealers from
offering reduced latency times that larger entities are able to offer through direct exchange
connectivity. 273 Moreover, some commenters believed that the Rule would hinder small brokerdealers from aggregating trade flow with others to reach more favorable fee tiers. 274 The
commenters asserted that as a result, the new rule may have the unintended negative effect of
driving small liquidity providers out of the market and reducing overall marketplace liquidity. 275
Another commenter noted that for some smaller proprietary trading firms, the expanded
risk management requirements in the Rule would make it impossible for their current business
models to be successful. In particular, the commenter asserted that increased latency times
required to send the firms’ orders through a broker-dealer’s risk management systems would
render their trading algorithms ineffective. As a result, this type of business model would no
longer be viable. 276
The Commission recognizes that small broker-dealers are faced with significant
competitive concerns from larger market participants, and that the new rule will eliminate speed
advantages gained through unfiltered sponsored access. However, the Commission notes that all
broker-dealers will be prohibited from offering unfiltered sponsored access, not just small
272

See, e.g., Jane Street Letter at 1-2; Scottrade Letter at 1; Wedbush Letter at 3-4; ABA
Letter at 6-7; and Carter Letter at 4-5.

273

See Jane Street Letter at 1-2; Wedbush Letter at 3-4; Carter Letter at 4-5.

274

See Jane Street Letter at 1-2.

275

See Jane Street Letter at 1-2; Scottrade Letter at 1.

276

See ABA Letter at 7.

121

broker-dealers. The Rule may affect the efficacy of market participant trading algorithms.
However, the Commission continues to believe that the potentially negative competitive effects
on small broker-dealers are justified by the benefits of eliminating the substantial market risks
that sponsored access imposes on all market participants, regardless of their size. As the
Commission previously stated in the Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis in the Proposal, only
a small number of the broker-dealers would be classified as “small businesses.” 277 Given the
relative importance of safeguarding against the risk of disorderly markets, the competitive effects
that the Rule may impose on that small number of respondents is appropriate.
C.

Small Entities Subject to the Rule

For purposes of Commission rulemaking in connection with the RFA, a broker-dealer is a
small business if its total capital (net worth plus subordinated liabilities) on the last day of its
most recent fiscal year was $500,000 or less, and is not affiliated with any entity that is not a
“small business.” 278 The Commission staff estimates that at year-end 2008 there were 1,095
broker or dealers which were members of an exchange, and 21 of those were classified as “small
businesses.” 279 In addition, the Commission estimates that there were 200 brokers or dealers that
were subscribers to ATSs but not members of an exchange. 280 The Commission estimates that,
of those 200 brokers or dealers, only a small number would be classified as “small businesses.”
Currently, most small brokers or dealers, when accessing an exchange or ATS in the
ordinary course of their business, should already have risk management controls and supervisory
procedures in place. The extent to which such small brokers or dealers would be affected

277

See Proposing Release, 75 FR at 4027.

278

17 CFR 240.0-10(c).

279

See Proposing Release, 75 FR at 4027.

280

Id.

122

economically under the Rule would depend significantly on the financial and regulatory risk
management controls that already exist in the broker or dealer’s system, as well as the nature of
the broker or dealer’s business. In many cases, the Rule may be substantially satisfied by a small
broker-dealer’s pre-existing financial and regulatory risk management controls and current
supervisory procedures. Further, staff discussions with various industry participants indicated
that very few, if any, small broker-dealers with market access provide other persons with
“unfiltered” access, which may require more significant systems upgrades to comply with the
Rule. Therefore, these brokers or dealers should only require limited updates to their systems to
meet the requisite risk management controls and other requirements in the Rule. The Rule also
would impact small brokers or dealers that utilize risk management technology provided by a
vendor or some other third party; however, the proposed requirement to directly monitor the
operation of the financial and regulatory risk management controls should not impose a
significant cost or burden because the Commission understands that such technology allows the
broker or dealer to exclusively manage such controls. 281
D.

Reporting, Recordkeeping, and Other Compliance Requirements

The Rule will require brokers or dealers to establish, document, and maintain certain risk
management controls and supervisory procedures reasonably designed to limit financial exposure
and ensure compliance with applicable regulatory requirements as well as regularly review such
controls and procedures, and document the review, and remediate issues discovered to assure
overall effectiveness of such controls and procedures. The financial and regulatory risk
management controls and supervisory procedures required by the Rule must be under the direct
and exclusive control of the broker or dealer with market access. The Rule, however, permits a
281

The Commission’s understanding is based on discussions with various industry
participants.

123

broker-dealer providing market access to reasonably allocate, by written contract, control over
specific regulatory risk management controls and supervisory procedures to a customer that is a
broker-dealer, so long as the broker-dealer providing market access has a reasonable basis for
determining that such customer, based on its position in the transaction and relationship with an
ultimate customer, has better access than the broker-dealer with market access to that ultimate
customer and its trading information such that it can more effectively implement the specified
controls or procedures than the broker-dealer providing market access. Each such broker or
dealer will be required to preserve a copy of its supervisory procedures and a written description
of its risk management controls as part of its books and records in a manner consistent with Rule
17a-4(e)(7) under the Exchange Act. Such regular review will be required to be conducted in
accordance with written procedures and would be required to be documented. The broker or
dealer will be required to preserve a copy of such written procedures, and documentation of each
such review, as part of its books and records in a manner consistent with Rule 17a-4(e)(7) under
the Exchange Act, and Rule 17a-4(b) under the Exchange Act, respectively.
In addition, the Chief Executive Officer (or equivalent officer) will be required to certify
annually that the broker or dealer’s risk management controls and supervisory procedures
comply with the proposed rule, and that the broker-dealer conducted such review. Such
certifications will be required to be preserved by the broker or dealer as part of its books and
records in a manner consistent with Rule 17a-4(b) under the Exchange Act. Most small brokers
or dealers currently should already have supervisory procedures and record retention systems in
place. The Rule will require small brokers or dealers to update their procedures and perform
additional internal compliance functions. Based on discussions with industry participants and
the Commission’s prior experience with broker-dealers, the Commission estimates that

124

implementation of a regular review, modification of applicable compliance policies and
procedures, and preservation of such records would require, on average, 60 hours of compliance
staff time for brokers or dealers depending on their business model. 282 The Commission believes
that the business models of small brokers or dealers would necessitate less than the average of 60
hours.
E.

Agency Action to Minimize Effects on Small Entities

Pursuant to Section 3(a) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 283 the Commission must
consider certain types of alternatives, including: (1) the establishment of differing compliance or
recording requirements or timetables that take into account the resources available to small
entities; (2) the clarification, consolidation, or simplification of compliance and reporting
requirements under the rule for small entities; (3) the use of performance rather than design
standards; and (4) an exemption from coverage of the rule, or any part of the rule, for small
entities.
The Commission considered whether it would be necessary or appropriate to establish
different compliance or reporting requirements or timetables; or to clarify, consolidate, or
simplify compliance and reporting requirements under the Rule for small entities. Because the
Rule is designed to mitigate, as discussed in detail throughout this release, significant financial
and regulatory risks, the Commission believes that small entities should be covered by the Rule.
The proposed rule includes performance standards. The Commission also believes that the Rule
is flexible enough for small broker-dealers to comply with the Rule without the need for the
establishment of differing compliance or reporting requirements for small entities, or exempting
them from the Rule’s requirements.
282

See supra Section III.D.2.

283

5 U.S.C. 603(c).

125

VII.

Statutory Authority
Pursuant to the Exchange Act and particularly, Sections 2, 3(b), 11A, 15, 17(a) and (b),

and 23(a) thereof, 15 U.S.C. 78b, 78c(b), 78k-1, 78o, 78q(a) and (b), and 78w(a), the
Commission adopts Rule 15c3-5 under the Exchange Act that would require broker-dealers with
market access, or that provide a customer or any other person with market access through use of
its market participant identifier or otherwise, to establish appropriate risk management controls
and supervisory systems.
Text of Rule 15c3-5
List of Subjects in 17 CFR Part 240
Brokers, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Securities.
For the reasons set out in the preamble, 17 CFR Part 240 is amended as follows.
PART 240—GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934
1.

The authority citation for Part 240 continues to read in part as follows:

Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77c, 77d, 77g, 77j, 77s, 77z–2, 77z–3, 77eee, 77ggg, 77nnn, 77sss,
77ttt, 78c, 78d, 78e, 78f, 78g, 78i, 78j, 78j–1, 78k, 78k–1, 78l , 78m, 78n, 78o, 78p, 78q, 78s,
78u–5, 78w, 78x, 78ll, 78mm, 80a–20, 80a–23, 80a–29, 80a–37, 80b–3, 80b–4, 80b–11, and
7201 et seq.; and 18 U.S.C. 1350, unless otherwise noted.
*

*

*

*

*

2.

Section 240.15c3-5 is added to read as follows:

§240.15c3-5 Risk management controls for brokers or dealers with market access.
(a) For the purpose of this section:

126

(1) The term market access shall mean (i) access to trading in securities on an exchange
or alternative trading system as a result of being a member or subscriber of the exchange or
alternative trading system, respectively; or (ii) access to trading in securities on an alternative
trading system provided by a broker-dealer operator of an alternative trading system to a nonbroker-dealer.
(2) The term regulatory requirements shall mean all federal securities laws, rules and
regulations, and rules of self-regulatory organizations, that are applicable in connection with
market access.
(b) A broker or dealer with market access, or that provides a customer or any other
person with access to an exchange or alternative trading system through use of its market
participant identifier or otherwise, shall establish, document, and maintain a system of risk
management controls and supervisory procedures reasonably designed to manage the financial,
regulatory, and other risks of this business activity. Such broker or dealer shall preserve a copy
of its supervisory procedures and a written description of its risk management controls as part of
its books and records in a manner consistent with §240.17a-4(e)(7). A broker-dealer that routes
orders on behalf of an exchange or alternative trading system for the purpose of accessing other
trading centers with protected quotations in compliance with Rule 611 of Regulation NMS
(§242.611) for NMS stocks, or in compliance with a national market system plan for listed
options, shall not be required to comply with this rule with regard to such routing services,
except with regard to paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.
(c) The risk management controls and supervisory procedures required by paragraph (b)
of this section shall include the following elements:

127

(1) Financial risk management controls and supervisory procedures. The risk
management controls and supervisory procedures shall be reasonably designed to systematically
limit the financial exposure of the broker or dealer that could arise as a result of market access,
including being reasonably designed to:
(i) Prevent the entry of orders that exceed appropriate pre-set credit or capital thresholds
in the aggregate for each customer and the broker or dealer and, where appropriate, more finelytuned by sector, security, or otherwise by rejecting orders if such orders would exceed the
applicable credit or capital thresholds; and
(ii) Prevent the entry of erroneous orders, by rejecting orders that exceed appropriate
price or size parameters, on an order-by-order basis or over a short period of time, or that
indicate duplicative orders.
(2) Regulatory risk management controls and supervisory procedures. The risk
management controls and supervisory procedures shall be reasonably designed to ensure
compliance with all regulatory requirements, including being reasonably designed to:
(i) Prevent the entry of orders unless there has been compliance with all regulatory
requirements that must be satisfied on a pre-order entry basis;
(ii) Prevent the entry of orders for securities for a broker or dealer, customer, or other
person if such person is restricted from trading those securities;
(iii) Restrict access to trading systems and technology that provide market access to
persons and accounts pre-approved and authorized by the broker or dealer; and
(iv) Assure that appropriate surveillance personnel receive immediate post-trade
execution reports that result from market access.

128

(d) The financial and regulatory risk management controls and supervisory procedures
described in paragraph (c) of this section shall be under the direct and exclusive control of the
broker or dealer that is subject to paragraph (b) of this section.
(1) Notwithstanding the foregoing, a broker or dealer that is subject to paragraph (b) of
this section may reasonably allocate, by written contract, after a thorough due diligence review,
control over specific regulatory risk management controls and supervisory procedures described
in paragraph (c)(2) of this section to a customer that is a registered broker or dealer, provided
that such broker or dealer subject to paragraph (b) of this section has a reasonable basis for
determining that such customer, based on its position in the transaction and relationship with an
ultimate customer, has better access than the broker or dealer to that ultimate customer and its
trading information such that it can more effectively implement the specified controls or
procedures.
(2) Any allocation of control pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall not relieve
a broker or dealer that is subject to paragraph (b) of this section from any obligation under this
section, including the overall responsibility to establish, document, and maintain a system of risk
management controls and supervisory procedures reasonably designed to manage the financial,
regulatory, and other risks of market access.
(e) A broker or dealer that is subject to paragraph (b) of this section shall establish,
document, and maintain a system for regularly reviewing the effectiveness of the risk
management controls and supervisory procedures required by paragraphs (b) and (c) of this
section and for promptly addressing any issues.
(1) Among other things, the broker or dealer shall review, no less frequently than
annually, the business activity of the broker or dealer in connection with market access to assure

129

the overall effectiveness of such risk management controls and supervisory procedures. Such
review shall be conducted in accordance with written procedures and shall be documented. The
broker or dealer shall preserve a copy of such written procedures, and documentation of each
such review, as part of its books and records in a manner consistent with §240.17a-4(e)(7) and
§240.17a-4(b), respectively.
(2) The Chief Executive Officer (or equivalent officer) of the broker or dealer shall, on an
annual basis, certify that such risk management controls and supervisory procedures comply with
paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, and that the broker or dealer conducted such review, and
such certifications shall be preserved by the broker or dealer as part of its books and records in a
manner consistent with §240.17a-4(b).
(f) The Commission, by order, may exempt from the provisions of this section, either
unconditionally or on specified terms and conditions, any broker or dealer, if the Commission
determines that such exemption is necessary or appropriate in the public interest consistent with
the protection of investors.

By the Commission.

Elizabeth M. Murphy
Secretary

Date: November 3, 2010

130

