UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 





Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Release No. 62837 / September 2, 2010
Administrative Proceeding
File No. 3-13675

In the Matter of
Value Line, Inc.,
Value Line Securities, Inc.,
Jean Bernhard Buttner, and
David Henigson,

ORDER APPOINTING A FUND
ADMINISTRATOR AND WAIVING BOND

Respondents.

On November 4, 2009, the Commission instituted settled public administrative and cease-anddesist proceedings against Value Line, Inc. (“Value Line”), Value Line Securities, Inc., Jean Bernhard
Buttner, and David Henigson in connection with the misappropriation of assets from the Value Line
Family of Mutual Funds. See Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings,
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to Section
8A of the Securities Act of 1933, Sections 15(b)(4), 15(b)(6) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, Sections 203(e), 203(f) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and Sections 9(b) and
9(f) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, Securities Act Release No. 9081 (November 4, 2009).
Among other things, the Commission ordered Value Line to pay a total of $43,705,765 in disgorgement,
prejudgment interest and civil penalty, for establishment of a Fair Fund.
The Division of Enforcement (“Division”) seeks approval of the appointment of A.B. Data, Ltd.
(“A.B. Data”) as Fund Administrator, and that the Fund Administrator not be required to post a bond
generally required under Fair Fund Rule 1105(c). The Division proposes that the Commission waive the
bond requirement of the Fund Administrator for good cause. In lieu of bond, any proposed plan of
distribution for the Fair Fund will incorporate several layers of protection for the Fair Fund. Among
other things, under any distribution plan: (1) the fund administrator will have no custody, and only
limited control, of the Fair Fund; (2) the Fair Fund will be held by the U.S. Treasury Department’s
Bureau of the Public Debt until immediately before transmittal of checks or electronic transfers to
eligible investors; (3) upon transfer from the U.S. Treasury, funds will be held in an escrow account,
separate from the assets of the Escrow Bank, until presentation of a check or electronic transfer, at which
time funds will be transferred to a controlled distribution account; (4) presented checks or electronic
transfers will be subject to “positive pay” controls before being honored by the Escrow Bank; and (5)
both the Escrow Bank and the fund administrator will maintain, throughout this process, insurance and/or
a financial institution bond that covers errors and omissions, misfeasance and fraud.

Accordingly, pursuant to Rules 1105(a) and (c) of the Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund and
Disgorgement Plans, 17 C.F.R. § 201.1105, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that A.B. Data is appointed as
Fund Administrator and that waiver of the bond requirement is granted for good cause shown.

By the Commission.

Elizabeth M. Murphy
Secretary

