UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

Before the 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Release No. 61501 / February 4, 2010
Administrative Proceedings
File No. 3-12400

In the Matter of
ORDER APPROVING DISTRIBUTION
PLAN, APPOINTING A FUND
ADMINISTRATOR, AND WAIVING
BOND

PRUDENTIAL EQUITY GROUP, LLC,
formerly known as PRUDENTIAL
SECURITIES, INC.,
Respondent.

I.
On August 28, 2006, the Commission instituted settled administrative and cease-and­
desist proceedings against Prudential Equity Group, LLC ("Respondent") for violations of the
federal securities laws in connection with deceptive market timing practices in the trading of
mutual funds. The Commission issued an Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings, Making
Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Order”), Release No. 34-54371 (August 28, 2006) ("Order")
providing for the payment of disgorgement totaling $270 million. It further provided that a
distribution fund (the "PSI Distribution Fund") be established and distributed pursuant to a
distribution plan developed by an Independent Distribution Consultant ("IDC") retained by
Respondent.
Respondents selected Francis E. McGovern, a Professor of Law at Duke University, to
serve as the PSI Distribution Fund's IDC. The IDC has developed a proposed distribution plan
(the "Distribution Plan") in consultation with the staff and Respondent.
The PSI Distribution Fund is comprised of the $270 million paid by Respondent, plus
accumulated interest, less any federal, state, or local taxes on the interest. The Distribution Plan
provides for the distribution of the PSI Distribution Fund to certain mutual funds affected by the
activity described in the Order during the period from September 1999 through at least June
2003, according to a formula designed to capture the proportional dilution in such mutual funds
relative to the dilution in all such mutual funds. In some instances, where practicable and
feasible, the Distribution Plan allows for the IDC to use an Independent Distribution Consultant

or Fund Administrator appointed in another Commission proceeding to distribute the monies
directly to the shareholders of such mutual funds who held their shares during the relevant
period. Persons eligible for distributions from the PSI Distribution Fund will not need to go
through a claims process.
In accordance with the Commission's Rules on Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans (the
"Fair Fund Rules"), 17 C.F.R. § 201.1100, et seq., the Plan proposes a Fund Administrator and
sets forth, among other things, procedures for the distribution of proceeds to funds or
shareholders of funds; procedures for the administration of the Fund, including provisions for
filing tax returns; and a proposed timeframe for the termination of the PSI Distribution Fund.
Rust Consulting, Inc., proposed in the Plan as the Fund Administrator, has not posted the
bond generally required of third parties under Fair Fund Rule 1105(c). Rather, the Plan
incorporates several layers of protection for the PSI Distribution Fund. Among other things,
under the Plan: (1) the Fund Administrator will have no custody, and only limited control, of the
PSI Distribution Fund; (2) the PSI Distribution Fund will be held by the U.S. Treasury Bureau of
Public Debt until immediately before transmittal of checks or electronic transfers to eligible
investors; (3) upon transfer from the U.S. Treasury, funds will be held in an escrow account,
separate from the Escrow Bank's assets1 until presentation of a check or electronic transfer, at
which time funds will be transferred to a controlled distribution account; (4) presented checks or
electronic transfers will be subject to "positive pay" controls before being honored by the Escrow
Bank; and (5) both the Escrow Bank and the Fund Administrator will maintain, throughout this
process, insurance and/or a financial institution bond that covers errors and omissions,
misfeasance and fraud.
On December 4, 2009, the Commission issued a Notice of Proposed Distribution Plan
and Opportunity for Comment (Exchange Act Release No. 57489) pursuant to Fair Fund Rule
1103, 17 C.F.R. § 201.1103. The Notice advised interested parties that they could obtain a copy
of the Plan at http://www.sec.gov, or by submitting a written request to LeeAnn Gaunt, Assistant
Regional Director, United States Securities and Exchange Commission, 33 Arch Street, 23rd
Floor, Boston, MA 02110. The Notice also advised that all persons desiring to comment on the
Plan could submit their comments, in writing, no later than 30 days from the date of the Notice.
No comments were received by the Commission in response to the Notice, and no modification
has been made to the Plan since its publication.
The Commission has determined that the Plan will be approved. The Commission has
further determined that, for good cause shown, the bond required under Fair Fund Rule 1105(c)
will be waived.
Accordingly, IT IS ORDERED that:
A. 	

Pursuant to the Commission's Rules on Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans, 17 C.F.R. §
201.1104, the Distribution Plan is approved;

1

The "Escrow Bank" refers to Deutsche Bank as defined in ¶ 9 and described in ¶¶ 72 and 73 of the Plan.

2


B. 	

Pursuant to the Commission's Rules on Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans, 17 C.F.R. §
201.1105(a), Rust Consulting, Inc., is appointed as the Fund Administrator; and

C. 	

The bond requirement of Rule 1105(c) of the Commission's Rules on Fair Fund and
Disgorgement Plans, 17 C.F.R. § 201.1105(c), is waived for good cause shown.

For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Elizabeth M. Murphy
Secretary

3


