UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-13675
In the Matter of
Value Line, Inc.,
Value Line Securities, Inc.,
Jean Bernhard Buttner, and
David Henigson,

PROPOSED PLAN OF
DISTRIBUTION

Respondents.

I. OVERVIEW
The Division of Enforcement (“Division”) submits the following Proposed Plan
of Distribution (the “Distribution Plan”) to the Securities and Exchange Commission
(“Commission”) pursuant to Rule 1101 of the Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund and
Disgorgement Plans, 17 C.F.R. § 201.1101. As described more specifically below, the
Distribution Plan proposes a distribution to certain injured shareholders of nine Value
Line mutual funds that held shares between January 1, 1986 and November 9, 2004. The
affected funds, collectively the “Value Line Funds” or the “Funds,” are: (alphabetically)
Value Line Asset Allocation Fund, Inc.;
Value Line Centurion Fund, Inc.;
Value Line Emerging Opportunities Fund, Inc. (formerly Value Line Small
Cap Growth Fund, Inc.);
Value Line Fund, Inc.;
Value Line Income and Growth Fund, Inc.;
Value Line Leveraged Growth Investors, Inc.;
Value Line Special Situations Fund, Inc.;
Value Line Strategic Asset Management Trust; and
Value Line U.S. Multinational Company Fund, Inc.
From 1986 to November 2004, Value Line Inc. (“VLI”) directed approximately
$24.2 million in brokerage commissions from the Value Line Funds to an affiliated
broker-dealer, Value Line Securities, Inc. (“VLS”), without disclosing to the Funds or the

Funds’ shareholders that VLS did not provide any brokerage services to the Funds for
these commissions. On November 4, 2009, the Commission, VLI, VLS and two
individuals at these companies 1 entered into a settlement, described in greater detail
below, in which VLI paid to the Commission $24,168,979 in disgorgement, $9,536,786
in prejudgment interest, and $10 million in a civil penalty. These amounts have been
paid and placed into a Fair Fund created by the Commission. The Distribution Plan
proposes to distribute from the Fair Fund to eligible investors their share of losses
resulting from the violations, plus interest.
The Distribution Plan contains the notice and comment procedures set forth in
Paragraph 65 below. The Distribution Plan is subject to approval by the Commission,
and the Commission retains jurisdiction over implementation of the Distribution Plan.
II. FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
A.

Settlement Description

1.
On November 4, 2009, the Commission entered an Order Instituting
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing
Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to Section 8A of the
Securities Act of 1933, Sections 15(b)(4), 15(b)(6) and 21C of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, Sections 203(e), 203(f) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940,
and Sections 9(b) and 9(f) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (Securities Act
Release No. 9081) (the “Order”) with respect to Respondents. Simultaneously with the
entry of the Order, the Commission accepted settlement offers from Respondents in
which Respondents consented to the entry of the Order without admitting or denying the
Order’s findings, except as to jurisdiction.
2.
In the Order, the Commission found that VLI, VLS, Buttner, and
Henigson willfully violated Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities
Act”), Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule
10b-5 thereunder; VLI willfully violated Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”), and VLS, Buttner, and Henigson willfully aided
and abetted and caused VLI’s violations of Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers
Act; VLI willfully violated Section 207 of the Advisers Act; VLI willfully violated
Section 15(c) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”);
VLI and VLS willfully violated Section 17(e)(1) of the Investment Company Act; and
VLI, Buttner and Henigson willfully violated Section 34(b) of the Investment Company
Act. As a remedial sanction, the Commission ordered that VLI pay disgorgement in the
amount of $24,168,979, plus prejudgment interest of $9,536,786. Additionally, civil
monetary penalties were ordered to be paid by VLI in the amount of $10,000,000, by
Buttner in the amount of $1,000,000, and by Henigson in the amount of $250,000.
1

VLI, VLS, Jean Bernhard Buttner (“Buttner”), the former Chief Executive Officer, President and
Chairman of the Board of VLI and former Chairman and President of VLS, and David Henigson
(“Henigson”), at various times the former Director, Vice-President, Treasurer and/or Chief Compliance
Officer of VLI and former Director and Vice-President of VLS, are collectively the “Respondents.”

2

3.
In accordance with the Order, monies totaling $44,955,765 were paid to
the Commission, of which $43,705,765 comprising VLI’s payment of disgorgement,
prejudgment interest and civil penalties was used to create a Fair Fund pursuant to
Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 15 U.S.C. Section 7246, and Rule
1100 of the Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans, 17 C.F.R.
201.1100. The Fair Fund (also referred to herein as the “Distribution Fund”) has been
deposited at the U.S. Department of Treasury Bureau of the Public Debt (“BPD”) for
investment. Other than interest from those investments, it is not anticipated the Fair Fund
will receive additional funds.
4.
The purpose and intent of the Distribution Plan is to distribute a portion of
the Distribution Fund to persons who held shares of any of the Value Line Funds during
the Relevant Period (defined below) based on the Plan of Allocation described herein.
The distribution fund administrator (defined below) has agreed to take reasonable steps to
identify and contact all potential claimants, verify each potential claimant’s eligibility to
receive a share of the Distribution Fund, calculate each claimant’s disbursement (defined
below) amount, resolve any disputes, and distribute the Distribution Fund to those
claimants whom the administrator determines to be eligible.
B.

Appointment of Fund Administrator

5.
The Commission has appointed A.B. Data, Ltd. (“A.B. Data” or
“Administrator”), as the administrator of the Distribution Fund. See Order Appointing a
Fund Administrator and Waiving Bond (Exchange Act Release No. 62837,
Sept. 2, 2010). A.B. Data is a class action notice and claims administrator with principal
business offices located in Milwaukee, WI. A.B. Data has provided similar
administrative services in a number of Commission actions.
6.
A.B. Data shall be entitled to reasonable fees and reimbursement for
reasonable costs and expenses in accordance with the proposal submitted to the
Commission. The Order requires VLI to pay all costs associated with the Fair Fund
distribution, including, but not limited to, the fees, costs and expenses of A.B. Data.
C.

Waiver of Bond Requirement

7.
The Commission has waived the bond requirement of A.B. Data for good
cause, as provided under 17 CFR 201.1105(c). Good cause is shown specifically by the
provisions of this Distribution Plan that (1) the Administrator will have no custody, and
only limited control, of the Distribution Fund; (2) the Distribution Fund will be held by
the BPD on behalf of the Commission until immediately before transmittal of checks or
electronic transfers to eligible investors; (3) upon transfer from the BPD, funds will be
held in an escrow account (the “QSF Account,” described infra) at The Huntington
National Bank (“Huntington Bank” or the “Bank”), separate from Bank assets, until
presentation of a check or electronic transfer, at which time funds will be transferred to a
Controlled Distribution Account or a Managed Distribution Account (“Distribution

3

Account”) at Huntington Bank; (4) presented checks or electronic transfers will be
subject to “positive pay” controls before being honored by Huntington Bank; and (5) both
Huntington Bank and A.B. Data will maintain, throughout this process, insurance and/or
a financial institution bond that covers errors and omissions, misfeasance and fraud.
8.
Huntington Bank maintains and will continue to maintain a Bankers
Blanket Bond which includes errors and omissions (“E&O”) coverage with a single
aggregate limit in the amount of $105 million with $70 million per occurrence. The
insurers are National Union Insurance and St. Paul Mercury Insurance Company,
companies which, as of their most recent renewals, were rated “A” and “A+”,
respectively by A.M. Best. Huntington Bank annually assesses the adequacy of its policy
limits through extensive analysis of historical loss data, exposure to loss and internal
company controls. The limits of Huntington Bank are reviewed annually by the
company’s Board of Directors. Documentation has been provided to the assigned
Commission staff to support the foregoing representations.
9.
In lieu of a bond, the Administrator maintains and will continue to
maintain insurance until termination of the Distribution Fund. The current primary
insurer, Endurance American Specialty Insurance Company, is a company which, as of
its most recent renewal was rated “A” by A.M. Best. The Administrator maintains and
will continue to maintain until the termination of the Distribution Fund, E&O insurance
in the amount of $10 million, which protects against errors and omissions committed by
the employees of the Administrator in the course of their performance of professional
services. The E&O policy has a policy limit of $10 million per occurrence and an overall
limit of $10 million during the life of the policy. The Administrator also maintains
additional policies of $40 million in excess E&O insurance, as well as in general
commercial liability coverage of $2 million in the aggregate and $1 million per
occurrence. Lastly, the Administrator maintains a crime policy in the amount of
$250,000 per occurrence, which provides protection against employee dishonesty,
forgery or fraudulent alteration of securities, and electronic and computer crime
exposures, which include losses due to transfer, payment or delivery of funds as a result
of fraudulent input, preparation or modification of computer instructions, data or
fraudulent electronic transmissions or communications. It protects against errors and
omissions committed by employees of the Administrator in the course of their
performance of professional services. Under the Distribution Plan, at no time will there
be funds under the custody and control of the Administrator that exceed the amount
covered by insurance. Documentation has been provided to the assigned Commission
staff to support the foregoing representations.
D.

Duties of Administrator

10.
The Administrator will be responsible for, among other things, overseeing
the administration of the Distribution Fund, obtaining accurate mailing information for
potential Claimants, preparing accountings, cooperating with the Tax Administrator in
providing the information necessary to accomplish the income tax compliance,
distributing money from the Distribution Fund to Eligible Claimants in accordance with

4

the Distribution Plan, and setting up and staffing a call center to address potential
Claimant questions or concerns regarding the Distribution.
11.
The Administrator will ensure that sufficient amounts are withheld from
the Distribution Fund to satisfy any tax liability. The Administrator will ensure that the
Tax Administrator’s fees and reimbursable costs are paid.
E.

Appointment of Tax Administrator

12.
The Commission has appointed Damasco & Associates LLP as the Tax
Administrator of the Distribution Fund. See Order Appointing Tax Administrator
(Exchange Act Release No. 61045, Nov. 20, 2009). The Administrator will cooperate
with the Tax Administrator providing any information necessary for income tax
compliance by the Fair Fund and any other tax-related work for the Fair Fund that is
assigned to the Tax Administrator by the Commission staff.
13.
The tax obligations of the Distribution Fund shall be paid from the interest
earned on the Distribution Fund, and if the interest is not sufficient, then from the corpus
of the Distribution Fund.
III. DEFINED TERMS
14.
“Claimants” shall mean those individuals and entities, or their lawful
successors, who held shares in one or more of the Value Line Funds during the Relevant
Period.
15.
“Disbursements” shall mean the payments made to Eligible Claimants as
approved by the Commission.
16.
“Distribution Fund” shall mean the $43,705,765 in disgorgement,
prejudgment interest, and civil money penalties paid by VLI.
17.
“Eligible Claimants” are those Claimants the Administrator determines to
be entitled to receive Disbursements from the Distribution Fund. An “Eligible Claimant”
in no event shall include any of the Respondents or any of the Respondents’ affiliates,
assigns, creditors, heirs, distributees, spouses, parents, children, or controlled entities.
18.
“Net Distribution Fund” shall mean the Distribution Fund plus any interest
earned thereon, less all taxes, and all approved costs and expenses of the administration
of the Distribution Fund.
19.
“Relevant Period” shall mean January 1, 1986, through
November 9, 2004.
20.
“Value Line Funds” or “Funds” shall be defined to include any of the
following: Value Line Fund, Inc.; Value Line Centurion Fund, Inc.; Value Line Special

5

Situations Fund, Inc.; Value Line Leveraged Growth Investors, Inc.; Value Line Income
and Growth Fund, Inc.; Value Line Strategic Asset Management Trust; Value Line
Emerging Opportunities Fund, Inc. (formerly Value Line Small Cap Growth Fund, Inc.);
Value Line Asset Allocation Fund, Inc.; and Value Line U.S. Multinational Company
Fund, Inc.
IV. DISTRIBUTION PLAN AND PROCEDURES
A.

Identification and Notification of Potential Claimants

21.
Upon approval of the Distribution Plan by the Commission, the
Administrator shall take reasonable steps to ascertain the identity and locations of
potential Claimants, primarily through a review and analysis of transfer agent records
provided to the Administrator and other records indicating names and addresses of
shareholders of the Value Line Funds from various years of the Relevant Period for
which records are available.
22.
The Administrator will seek to contact those potential Claimants, inform
them of the eligibility requirements for participation in the Distribution Fund, and explain
how to make a claim.
23.
The Administrator also will publish notices describing the Distribution
Fund and eligibility requirements for participation at least twice in a national publication.
The first notice will occur within 10 days of the initial notice mailing and the second
within 45 days of the initial notice mailing. The Administrator will also issue a press
release at least twice through a newswire service pursuant to the same deadlines to ensure
the information will appear on financial news websites concurrently with publication.
24.
Furthermore, the Administrator will provide notice of the Distribution
Fund via a case-specific website, ValueLineFairFund.com (the “Distribution Fund
Website”), in addition to providing the same information and an electronic link to the
case-specific website at the Administrator’s website, abdataclassaction.com. The
Distribution Fund Website and the Administrator’s case page on its site will provide a
copy of the Distribution Plan, eligibility requirements for participation in the Distribution
Fund, a claim form, and the deadline for filing claims. The Commission retains the right
to review and approve any material posted on the websites.
25.
An email address of info@ValueLineFairFund.com will be listed in the
notice and claim form as well as on the Distribution Fund Website and the
Administrator’s website in order for potential Claimants to make inquiries.
26.
The Administrator shall establish a toll-free phone number for potential
Claimants to call and listen to prerecorded messages or to speak to a live claims
administrator during its regular business hours.

6

27.
The Administrator will also mail notices to the Administrator’s list of
banks, brokers, and other nominees (“BBNs”) that may have records of their clients (the
“Beneficial Owners”) holding Value Line Funds in their portfolios during the Relevant
Period, and request that BBNs provide lists of these Beneficial Owners and their
addresses to the Administrator so that these Beneficial Owners may be advised of the
eligibility requirements and how to make a claim.
B.

Claims Process

28.
Within 45 days after this Distribution Plan is approved the Administrator
shall provide written notice by First-Class Mail, postage prepaid, to persons and/or
entities that have been identified as potential Claimants informing them of the
Distribution Fund.
29.
The notice shall generally describe the distribution process as set forth in
the Distribution Plan, explain how to obtain a copy of the Distribution Plan by written
request or from the Distribution Fund Website, and include a claim form prepared by the
Administrator.
30.
All claims, which must be in writing, shall be accompanied by such
documentary evidence as the Administrator deems necessary or appropriate to
substantiate the claim, including, but not limited to, evidence of holdings, purchases,
and/or sales of any of the Value Line Funds during the Relevant Period. The claims
period shall be one hundred fifty (150) days from the date of the first mailing or the first
publication of notice, unless extended by the Administrator. No claim shall be accepted
if postmarked after such date.
31.
The Administrator shall review all claim submissions and determine the
eligibility of each submitting Claimant to participate in the Distribution Fund by
establishing the number of purchased or sold shares of Value Line Funds during the
Relevant Period and applying the Allocation Methodology as noted in Section IV.C.
below.
32.
Within one hundred eighty (180) days after the close of the claims period,
the Administrator shall notify, in writing, all persons whose claims the Administrator
rejected for participation in the Distribution Fund. The Administrator shall advise each
person in writing of the basis for rejection of their claim.
33.
Any person who seeks reconsideration of the denial must so advise the
Administrator within twenty (20) days of the postmark date of the initial denial of the
claim. Following subsequent review, the Administrator shall notify such person in
writing of the Administrator’s decision, which shall be final.
34.
Claimants will be able to utilize the toll-free phone number to contact the
Administrator and ask questions on how to correct their claims. Claimants will also be
able to provide additional documentation or make inquiries using the email address noted

7

above, a dedicated fax number for the case that will be included on all correspondence, or
by sending correspondence via U.S. Mail. These contact options will be noted in all
written correspondence exchanged with Claimants in regard to their claims.
C.

Calculation of Disbursement Amounts

35.
The Net Distribution Fund shall be distributed based on the acceptable,
timely claim forms submitted by Eligible Claimants as calculated pursuant to the
Allocation Methodology, which is described in Paragraph 36.
36.

The Allocation Methodology is as follows:

(a)
Each Eligible Claimant shall be paid from the Net Distribution Fund their
share of losses, plus interest thereon, as calculated by the methodology described in this
paragraph.
(b)
The Administrator shall determine each Eligible Claimant’s allocation of
the Net Distribution Fund based on the shares in the Value Line Funds held by the
Eligible Claimant at the end of each calendar quarter during the Relevant Period. 2
(c)
The Administrator will calculate each Eligible Claimant’s share of the Net
Distribution Fund as follows:
•

Calculate the average yearly share holdings in each Fund held by each
Eligible Claimant for each calendar year during the Relevant Period using the
shares held at each calendar quarter end (“Average Yearly Holdings”);

•

Calculate the amount of Harm Per Share for each Fund for each year in the
Relevant Period by dividing the estimated amount of brokerage commissions
overpaid by each Fund for each year during the Relevant Period by the total
number of shares in each Fund for each year (“Harm Per Share”); 3

•

Multiply the Harm Per Share for each Fund for each year in the Relevant
Period by the Average Yearly Holdings for each Eligible Claimant to
determine an Eligible Claimant’s harm for each year for each respective Fund
(“Annualized Harm”);

2

To the extent records and documents do not exist or are otherwise unavailable to
determine shares in the Value Line Funds held by Eligible Claimants as of the end of the
Relevant Period, November 9, 2004, reasonable estimates of such share holdings will be
made based on available records and documents.
3

The calculation of Harm Per Share will be determined by referencing available records
and documents for each Value Line Fund for each year. To the extent such records and
documents no longer exist or are otherwise unavailable, Harm Per Share will be
calculated based reasonable estimates of the amount of brokerage commissions overpaid
by each Value Line Fund for each year during the Relevant Period.
8

•

Each Eligible Claimant shall also receive interest on his/her Annualized
Harm. The interest paid will be based on the three month T-bill rate published
by the U.S. Treasury, compounded annually through the approximate date of
the disbursement of the Distribution Fund.

•

The total of each year of Annualized Harm plus interest thereon for all shares
claimed pursuant to the calculations above is each Eligible Claimant’s
Disbursement from the Net Distribution Fund.

37.
Each Eligible Claimant shall receive his/her allocation of the Net
Distribution Fund as determined by Paragraph 36(c) above except that no payment will
be issued to any Eligible Claimant whose total Disbursement amount is less than $10.00
(the “De Minimis Threshold”).
V. ADMINISTRATION OF THE DISTRIBUTION PLAN
A.

Control of the Distribution Fund

38.
The assets of the Distribution Fund are subject to the continuing
jurisdiction and control of the Commission. The Distribution Fund is currently deposited
at the BPD.
39.
The Distribution Fund constitutes a Qualified Settlement Fund (“QSF”)
under Section 468B(g) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. §468B(g), and related
regulations, 26 C.F.R. §§1.468B-1 through 1.468B-5.
40.
Upon approval of the Distribution Plan, pursuant to an Escrow Agreement
provided by and approved by Commission staff, the Administrator shall establish an
escrow account (the “QSF Account”) and a Distribution Account at Huntington Bank, in
the name of and bearing the taxpayer identification number (“TIN”) of the QSF as
custodian for the distributees of the Distribution Plan. The name of each account shall
be in the following form: Name of QSF, (TIN No.), as custodian for the benefit of
investors allocated a Disbursement from the Value Line Plan of Distribution.
41.
Prior to receipt of any funds in the QSF Account, the Bank shall provide
the Administrator an attestation, in a form acceptable to the Commission staff, that all
funds in the QSF Account will be held for this Distribution Plan and that the Bank will
not place any lien or encumbrance of any kind upon the funds.
42.
All interest earned on the money will accrue for the benefit of Eligible
Claimants except as otherwise provided herein. All costs associated with the QSF
Account will be paid first from the interest earned on the Distribution Fund, and if the
interest is not sufficient, then from the corpus.

9

43.
Huntington Bank will hold the Distribution Fund assets during the checkcashing period. The Administrator shall be the signer on the QSF account, subject to the
continuing jurisdiction and control of the Commission.
44.
Upon transfer from the BPD, the assets of the Distribution Fund will be
held in the QSF Account, separate from Huntington Bank assets, until presentation of a
check. Presented checks will be subject to “positive pay” controls before they are
honored by Huntington Bank, at which time funds will be transferred from the QSF
Account to the Distribution Account to pay the approved checks.
45.
The Administrator shall authorize the Bank to provide account
information to the Tax Administrator, including providing duplicate statements for the
QSF Account. The Administrator shall use the assets and earnings of the Distribution
Fund held in the QSF Account to provide payments to Eligible Claimants and to provide
the Tax Administrator with assets to pay tax liabilities and tax-compliance fees and costs.
46.
Any funds in the QSF Account shall be invested in instruments backed by
the full faith and credit of the U.S. Government, including a AAA-rated U.S. Treasury
money market fund that directly invests 100% in short-term U.S. Treasury securities and
obligations, provided however, that the money market mutual funds’ investments in short
term U.S. Treasury securities will not be made through repurchase agreements or other
derivative products.
B.

Procedures for Distributing the Distribution Fund

47.
In order to distribute funds, the Administrator will compile and submit a
validated list of payees (including multiple identifiers such as name, address, or social
security or taxpayer identification numbers) and the payment amounts to the assigned
Commission staff, who will obtain authorization from the Commission to disburse
pursuant to Rule 1101(b)(6). The payees and amounts will be validated by the
Administrator. The validation will state that the list was compiled in accordance with the
Distribution Plan and provides all information necessary to make payment to each
Eligible Claimant whose Disbursement meets the De Minimus Threshold.
48.
Upon receipt and review of the validated list, and upon approval by the
Commission, the Commission staff will direct the release of funds to the QSF Account
based upon the validated list and representation by the Administrator that the checks or
electronic transfers will be issued within five (5) business days. Upon the release of the
funds, the Bank shall promptly deposit the funds into the QSF Account. The
Administrator will then use its best efforts to mail and/or transmit Disbursement checks
or wire transfers within five business days of the release of the funds into the QSF
Account. All efforts will be coordinated to keep the time between the receipt of the
funding and the transmittal process at a minimum.
49.
All checks shall be issued by A.B. Data from the account set up with
Huntington Bank. All checks shall bear a stale date of one hundred and twenty (120)

10

days from the date of issue. Checks that are not negotiated within the stale date shall be
voided, and the Bank shall be instructed to stop payment on those checks, except as
provided below.
50.
All payments shall be preceded or accompanied by a communication that
includes, as appropriate, (a) a statement characterizing the Disbursement; (b) a
description of the tax information reporting and other related tax matters; (c) a statement
that checks will be void after one hundred and twenty (120) days; and (d) contact
information for the Administrator, to be used in the event of any questions regarding the
Disbursement (the “Disbursement Letter”). Any such information letter or other mailing
to recipients characterizing their Distributions shall be submitted to the assigned
Commission staff for review and approval. Disbursement checks, on their face or in the
accompanying mailing, will clearly indicate that the money is being distributed from a
Fair Fund for the investors of Value Line established by the SEC.
51.
Electronic transfers or “wire transfers” may be utilized to transfer funds in
accordance with the approved Disbursement amounts to filers of claims on behalf of
twenty (20) or more beneficial owners. Wire transfers will be initiated by the
Administrator using a two-party check and balance system.
52.
The Administrator shall utilize the Bank’s “positive pay” system to control
Distributions by check from the Distribution Account. The positive pay system provides
protection against fraud arising from counterfeit or amount-altered checks. The positive
pay system will require, at a minimum, confirmation by the Bank that all checks
presented for payment match the identifiers and amounts on the validated list prior to
payment of the presented obligation.
53.
The Administrator will continue to provide customer support and
communications programs utilizing the same toll-free number included in the notice and
claim form as well as posting additional information on the Distribution Fund Website
throughout fund administration.
C.

Procedures for Handling Returned or Un-Cashed Checks

54.
The Administrator is responsible for accounting for all payments and
transactions related to the Distribution Fund, including any checks that expire un-cashed.
The Administrator is responsible for researching and reconciling all returned items due to
non-delivery, insufficient addresses, and/or any other deficiencies and shall issue new
checks where appropriate.
55.
In cases where an Eligible Claimant is unable to endorse a Disbursement
check as written (e.g., name changes as a result of divorce, IRA custodian changes, or
recipient is deceased) and the Eligible Claimant or his/her/its lawful representative
requests the reissuance of a Disbursement check in a different name, the Administrator
will request, and must receive, documentation to support the requested change. The
Administrator will review the documentation to determine the authenticity and propriety

11

of the change request. If such change request is properly documented, the Administrator
will issue an appropriately redrawn check to the requesting party.
56.
Any Eligible Claimant that contacts the Administrator to request reissue of
his/her/its check shall be required to wait until the initial 120-day stale date has passed
for re-issue unless the original check is returned to the Administrator.
57.
If any physical check is returned as “undeliverable,” the Administrator
will undertake an address update search for the Eligible Claimant(s), through various
proprietary databases using Social Security number reverse append processing to locate
the most up-to-date address on file, within fourteen (14) business days after receipt of
such returned check. The Administrator will mail a new physical check to the last known
address, if any, obtained through such database search. If such physical check is not
negotiated by its 120-day stale date, that check shall be voided and the Administrator
shall instruct Huntington Bank to delete the check from the register.
58.
If any money remains in the Distribution Fund 120 days after the date of
issue, the Administrator shall make reasonable efforts to contact Eligible Claimants who
have failed to negotiate any checks over $50.00 (other than physical checks returned as
“undeliverable”) and take appropriate action to re-issue any such checks as needed. If
any checks remain un-cashed 180 days after the date of issue, the Administrator shall
void all such checks.
59.
A residual within the Fair Fund will be established for any amounts
remaining after all assets have been disbursed. The residual may include funds reserved
for future taxes and related expenses, amounts from checks that have not been cashed,
amounts from checks that were not delivered or accepted upon delivery, and tax refunds.
Any funds remaining in the residual after the final accounting is approved by the
Commission shall be paid to the Commission for transfer to the United States Treasury.
D.

Procedures for Handling Disputes

60.
Disputes shall be limited to the calculation of the Disbursement amount to
Eligible Claimants. Procedures for determining and reconsideration of a claimant’s
eligibility to receive a Disbursement from the Fair Fund are outlined in Paragraphs 31-33
above. All disputes must be submitted in writing along with any supporting
documentation to the Administrator. All disputes must be submitted within forty-five
(45) days of the date a check is issued or a wire transfer is initiated. Following an
investigation of the dispute, including a review of the written dispute and any supporting
documentation, within thirty (30) days of receipt of the dispute the Administrator shall
notify the person submitting the dispute of the Administrator’s resolution of the dispute,
which shall be final. This procedure shall be set forth in the Disbursement Letter
accompanying and/or attached to the check.

12

E.

Accounting

61.
Once the Distribution Fund has been transferred from the BPD to
Huntington Bank, the Administrator will file an accounting with the Commission staff
during the first ten (10) days of each calendar quarter on a standardized accounting form
provided by the Commission staff. The Administrator will file an accounting of all
monies earned or received and all monies spent in connection with the administration of
the Distribution Plan. Upon final payment of the funds to Eligible Claimants pursuant to
the procedures described above, all of the taxes and fees having been paid, and any
remaining funds having been transferred to the U.S. Treasury, the Administrator will
submit a final accounting to the Commission staff on a standardized accounting form
provided by the Commission staff for approval by the Commission prior to termination of
the Distribution Fund and discharge of the Administrator.
F.

Termination of the Distribution Fund

62.
The Fair Fund shall be eligible for termination, and the Administrator shall
be discharged, after all of the following have occurred: (1) a final accounting, in an SEC
standard accounting format provided by the staff, has been submitted by the
Administrator for approval of, and has been approved by, the Commission; (2) all taxes
fees, and expenses have been paid; and (3) any amount remaining in the Fair Fund has
been received by the Commission. When the Commission has approved the final
accounting, the staff shall arrange for the transfer of any amount remaining in the Fair
Fund to the U.S. Treasury, and shall seek an order from the Commission to approve the
termination of the Fair Fund and discharge of the Administrator.
G.

Amendments

63.
The Administrator shall take reasonable and appropriate steps to distribute
the Distribution Fund according to the Distribution Plan. The Administrator will inform
the Commission staff of any changes needed in the Distribution Plan. Upon agreement
with Commission staff, the Administrator may implement immaterial changes to the
Distribution Plan to effectuate its general purposes. If a change is deemed to be material
by the Commission staff, Commission approval is required prior to implementation by
amending the Distribution Plan, which may be done upon the motion of any party or the
Administrator or upon the Commission’s own motion.
64.
For good cause shown, the Commission staff may extend any of the
procedural deadlines set forth in the Distribution Plan.
VI. NOTICE AND COMMENT PERIOD
65.
Notice of the Distribution Plan shall be published in the SEC Docket and
on the Commission’s website, http://www.sec.gov, on the Distribution Fund Website,
ValueLineFairFund.com, and on the Administrator’s website abdataclassaction.com.
Any person or entity wishing to comment on the Distribution Plan must do so in writing

13

by submitting their comments to the Commission within thirty (30) days of the
publication date of the Notice of Proposed Plan of Distribution and Opportunity for
Comment. Written comments may be submitted through the following methods: (a) via
First-Class Mail to the Office of the Secretary, U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549-1090; (b) by using the
Commission’s Internet comment form (http://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin.shtml); or
(c) by sending an email to rule-comments@sec.gov. Please include the appropriate
administrative proceeding file number (3-13675) on the subject line. Comments received
will be publicly available. Persons should submit only information that they wish to
make publicly available.

14

