UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 63518 / December 10, 2010
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-11645

In the Matter of
PA FUND MANAGEMENT, LLC, 

PEA CAPITAL LLC, and 

PA DISTRIBUTORS LLC, 


ORDER APPROVING PLAN OF
DISTRIBUTION, APPOINTING A
FUND ADMINISTRATOR, AND
WAIVING BOND

Respondents.

On September 13, 2004, the Commission entered an Order instituting settled
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings against PA Fund Management LLC, PEA
Capital LLC, and PA Distributors LLC (“Respondents”) in this matter (the “Order”). In the
Matter of PA Fund Management LLC (f/k/a PIMCO Advisors Fund Management LLC), PEA
Capital LLC (f/k/a PIMCO Equity Advisors LLC), and PA Distributors LLC (f/k/a PIMCO
Advisors Distributors LLC), Admin. Proc. File No. 3-11645 (Exchange Act Release No. 50354,
September 13, 2004). In the Order, the Commission authorized the establishment of a Fair Fund
comprised of disgorgement and penalties paid by the Respondents for distribution to investors
harmed by market timing in certain mutual funds formerly offered by the PIMCO Equity
Funds: Multi-Manager Series (the “Equity Funds” or “Funds”). Respondents were ordered to
pay $50 million into the Fair Fund (less $1,616,738 previously returned to the Equity Funds).
The Order provided that the Fair Fund was to be distributed pursuant to a distribution plan
developed by an Independent Distribution Consultant. The Respondent retained Dr. Michael F.
Koehn as the IDC, who has developed a proposed distribution plan (the “Plan”) in consultation
with the Division of Enforcement and Respondents.
On October 7, 2010, the Commission published a “Notice of Proposed Plan of
Distribution and Opportunity for Comment” (“Notice”) pursuant to Rule 1103 of the
Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans, 17 C.F.R. § 201.1103. See
Exchange Act Release No. 63059. The Notice advised all interested parties that they may obtain
a copy of the Plan from the Commission’s public website, or by requesting one from Lorraine B.
Echavarria, Assistant Regional Director, Los Angeles Regional Office.




The Notice also advised all persons desiring to comment on the Plan that they may
submit their written comments no later than 30 days from the date of the Notice by sending them
to the Office of the Secretary, by using the Commission’s Internet comment form, or by emailing rule-comments@sec.gov. The Commission received no comments on the Plan, and no
material modification has been made to the Plan since publication of the Notice.
The Distribution Plan provides for the distribution of the Fair Fund based on
shareholders’ losses, defined as shareholder dilution and transactions costs, caused by market
timing in the Equity Funds from February 2002 to April 2003. Harmed shareholders will
receive their losses suffered and their proportionate share of advisory fees paid by the funds that
suffered losses and their proportionate share of interest earned on the Fair Fund. Upon
termination of the Fair Fund, the monies that remain in the Fair Fund will be transferred to the
Commission for remittance to the U.S. Treasury.
The Plan also proposes Rust Consulting, Inc. as the Fund Administrator and sets forth,
among other things, procedures for the administration of the Fair Fund, including a proposed
timeframe for the termination of the Plan.
Rust Consulting, Inc. has not posted the bond generally required of third parties under
Fair Fund Rule 1105(c). Good cause for waiver exists for the reasons that follow: (1) the Fund
Administrator will have no custody, and only limited control, of the Fair Fund; (2) the Fair Fund
will be held by U.S. Treasury Bureau of Public Debt until immediately before transmittal of
checks or electronic transfers to eligible investors; (3) funds will be transferred from U.S.
Treasury Bureau of Public Debt to a commercial bank (“Bank”) and those funds will be held in
an escrow account, separate from Bank assets, until presentation of a check or electronic transfer,
at which time funds will be transferred to a controlled distribution account; (4) presented checks
or electronic transfers will be subject to “positive pay” controls before being honored by the
Bank; and (5) both the Bank and the Fund Administrator will maintain, throughout this process,
insurance and/or a financial institution bond that covers errors and omissions, misfeasance, and
fraud.
The staff requests that the Commission approve the Plan, appoint Rust Consulting, Inc. as
the Fund Administrator, and waive the bond requirement of the Fund Administrator for the good
cause shown herein and set forth in the Plan.
Accordingly, it is ORDERED that:
A.
Pursuant to Rule 1104 of the Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund and
Disgorgement Plans, 17 C.F.R. § 201.1104, the Distribution Plan is approved;
B.
Pursuant to Rule 1105(a) of the Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund and
Disgorgement Plans, 17 C.F.R. § 201.1105(a), Rust Consulting, Inc. is appointed as the Fund
Administrator; and

2


C.
The bond requirement of Rule 1105(c) of the Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund
and Disgorgement Plans, 17 C.F.R. § 201.1105(c), is waived for good cause shown.
For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Elizabeth M. Murphy
Secretary

3


