UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78921 / September 23, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17568

In the Matter of

ORDER INSTITUTING
CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDERS AND
CIVIL PENALTIES

David A. Paterson,
Respondent.

I.
The United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it
appropriate that cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section
21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against David A. Paterson
(“Paterson” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over Respondent and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondent consents
to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing Cease-and-Desist Orders and
Civil Penalties (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds1 that:
Summary
1.
These proceedings arise out of violations of the beneficial ownership
reporting requirements of the federal securities laws.
2.
While subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Exchange
Act as a director of Medient Studios, Inc. (“Medient”), Paterson violated Section 16(a) on multiple
occasions by failing to file timely reports of his ownership of and transactions in Medient securities.
Respondent
3.
Paterson, age 61, is a resident of New York, New York. From
approximately May 22, 2014 through approximately February 26, 2015, Paterson was a member of
Medient’s board of directors.
Issuer
4.
Medient, n/k/a Moon River Studios, Inc., is a Nevada corporation with its
principal place of business in Georgia. Medient’s common stock is (and, at all relevant times, has
been) registered with the Commission under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act.
5.
Medient’s securities were quoted on the OTC Link (previously, “Pink
Sheets”) (operated by OTC Markets Group, Inc.) until the Commission suspended trading in
Medient’s securities on June 25, 2014. After the trading suspension, Medient ceased being quoted
on the OTC Link; however, it continues to trade on the grey market. Medient’s ticker symbol is
(and, at all relevant times, has been) “MDNT.”
Applicable Law
6.
Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act and the rules promulgated thereunder
apply to every person who is the beneficial owner of more than 10% of any class of any equity
security registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act, and any officer or director of the
issuer of any such security (collectively, “insiders”).
7.
Pursuant to Section 16(a) and Rules 16a-2 and 16a-3, insiders are required
to file initial statements of holdings on Form 3 and to keep such information current by reporting
subsequent transactions on Forms 4 and 5.

1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other person
or entity in this or any other proceeding.

2

8.
Specifically, within ten days after becoming an insider, or on or before the
effective date of the Section 12 registration of the class of equity security, an insider must file a
Form 3 disclosing his or her beneficial ownership of all securities of the issuer.
9.
Insiders must also file Forms 4 to disclose any transactions resulting in a
change in beneficial ownership within two business days of the execution date of such transactions,
except for limited types of transactions eligible for deferred reporting.
10.
Finally, insiders are required to file an annual statement on Form 5 within
forty-five days of the issuer’s fiscal year-end, in order to report any transactions or holdings that
should have been reported on Forms 3 or 4 during the issuer’s most recent fiscal year.
11.
Section 16 places the responsibility to report changes in securities
ownership on insiders themselves. The failure to timely file a required report, even if inadvertent,
constitutes a violation.
Respondent Failed to File Required Section 16(a) Reports on a Timely Basis
12.
As a director of Medient between May 22, 2014 and approximately
February 26, 2015, Paterson was subject to the reporting requirements of Exchange Act Section
16(a).
13.
Paterson’s initial Form 3 was due by June 2, 2014. In addition, on June 2,
2014, Paterson was issued 29,565,217 shares of Medient common stock, and a Form 4 for those
shares was due within two business days (by June 4, 2014). Finally, Medient’s 2014 fiscal year
ended on December 31, 2014, and thus Paterson should have filed a Form 5 by February 16, 2015.
14.
Paterson did not file an initial statement of beneficial ownership on Form 3,
or any of the required Forms 4 or 5, until April 16, 2015. At that time, he filed both a Form 3 and a
Form 4, which were over 10 months late.
15.
As a result of the conduct described above, Paterson violated Section 16(a)
of the Exchange Act and Rule 16a-3 thereunder.
Respondent’s Remedial Efforts
16.
In determining to accept Paterson’s Offer, the Commission considered
remedial acts undertaken by Paterson and cooperation afforded the Commission staff.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that:
3

A.
Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent Paterson cease
and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Section 16(a)
of the Exchange Act and Rule 16a-3 promulgated thereunder.
B.
Respondent Paterson shall, within 14 days of the entry of this Order, pay a
civil money penalty in the amount of $25,000 to the United States Securities and Exchange
Commission, for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange
Act § 21F(g)(3). If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31
U.S.C. § 3717. Payment must be made in one of the following ways:
(1) Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission,
which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon
request;
(2) Respondent may make direct payment from his bank account via Pay.gov
through the Commission’s website at
http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or
(3) Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the United States Securities
and Exchange Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:
Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
David A. Paterson as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings;
additionally, a copy of any such cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Aaron W.
Lipson, Assistant Regional Director, Division of Enforcement, United States Securities and
Exchange Commission, 950 East Paces Ferry Road, N.E., Suite 900, Atlanta, Georgia, 30326.
C.
Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order
shall be treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor
Action, he shall not argue that he is entitled to, nor shall he benefit by, offset or reduction of any
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondents’ payment of a civil
penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a
Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that he shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting
the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount of the
Penalty Offset to the Commission. Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil penalty
and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty imposed in this proceeding. For
purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” means a private damages action brought
4

against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based on substantially the same facts
as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this proceeding.
V.
It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by
Respondent, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other
amounts due by Respondent under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree
or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by
Respondent of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set
forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19).
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

5

