UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-14950

In the Matter of
CENTAUR MANAGEMENT
CO. LLC

PLAN OF
DISTRIBUTION

Respondent.

I.

BACKGROUND

1.
On July 17, 2012, the Commission entered an Order Instituting
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings pursuant to Sections 203(e) and 203(k)
of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial
Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”) against Centaur Management
Company LLC (“Centaur”). 1 The Order created a Fair Fund pursuant to Section 308(a)
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended.
2.
The Order stated that Centaur directed its client, Argent Classic, to
provide it with approximately $15 million in interest-free loans from January 1, 2006,
through April 2, 2009, and failed to adequately disclose this loan practice to Argent
Classic’s investors. As Argent Classic’s investment adviser, Centaur breached its
fiduciary duty to its client by misappropriating Argent Classic’s funds to make itself
interest-free loans, thus depriving Argent Classic of the use of those funds. Centaur also
made false or misleading material statements of facts and omitted to state material facts
to Argent Classic’s investors when it failed to disclose the interest-free loan practice.
Centaur ultimately repaid the approximately $15 million in interest-free loans to Argent
Classic.
3.
In accordance with the Order, Centaur paid disgorgement of $172,438,
prejudgment interest of $41,884, and a civil money penalty of $150,000, for a total
payment of $364,322 (“Fair Fund”). The $172,438 disgorgement paid by Centaur
represents the benefit (i.e., interest payments avoided) that Centaur received by
borrowing monies from Argent Classic at an interest rate of zero.

1

Advisers Act Rel. No. 3432 (July 17, 2012).

4.
The Fair Fund has been deposited in a Commission designated noninterest bearing account at the United States Department of Treasury (“Treasury”), where
it will be held until a Disbursement occurs. It is not anticipated that the Fair Fund will
receive additional funds.
5.
The purpose and intent of the Plan of Distribution (the “Plan”) is to benefit
Argent Classic Class A and Class B Limited Partners who were harmed from January 1,
2006, through April 2, 2009, by the interest-free loan practice described in the Order.
The Fair Fund is not being distributed according to a claims-made process. Therefore,
the procedures for making and approving claims are not applicable here.
6.
The Plan is subject to approval by the Commission, and the Commission
retains jurisdiction over the implementation of the Plan.
II.

DEFINED TERMS
7.

“Days” means calendar days.

8.
“Disbursement” means a payment to an Eligible Recipient from the Net
Fair Fund pursuant to the methodology in Section five (5) below.
9.
“Eligible Recipient” means a Class A or Class B Limited Partner who held
shares in Argent Classic from January 1, 2006, through April 2, 2009, and was harmed by
the interest-free loan practice described in the Order, or a lawful successor, assignee, or
designee. 2 A list of Class A and Class B Limited Partners from Centaur will be provided
to the fund administrator by Commission staff. An Eligible Recipient in no event will be
the fund administrator, Centaur, Argent Classic’s General Partners, or any of their
affiliates, assignees, designees, creditors, heirs, distributees, or controlled entities. A
Class A or Class B Limited Partner whose Total Distribution Amount as defined in
paragraph 21(d) below that does not exceed the Minimum Distribution Amount is not an
Eligible Recipient.
10.
“Minimum Distribution Amount” means $10.00. The Fair Fund will not
be disbursed to an Eligible Recipient unless the amount to be paid is equal to or greater
than $10.00.

2

Class C Limited Partners are not Eligible Recipients because the conduct underlying Centaur’s securities
laws violations minimally affected Class C Limited Partners. Specifically, each Class C Limited Partner
received a monthly return equal to the aggregate of that month’s daily interest rate, which was the LIBOR
rate for each day for that month plus 300 basis points. Class C Limited Partners received this monthly
return from Class B Limited Partners who, in exchange, received the profits or losses that otherwise would
have been due to Class C Limited Partners. Under some circumstances, Class C Limited Partners shared in
the profits of the fund, and on these occasions may have been harmed by Centaur’s interest-free loan
practice. Commission staff estimated that this harm was very small (approximately $4,000) and that
addressing this harm would add considerably to the complexity of the Plan. Therefore, Class C Limited
Partners are not Eligible Recipients under the Plan.

2

11.
“Net Fair Fund” means the Fair Fund minus all taxes, fees, and other
expenses paid by the Fair Fund.
12.
2, 2009.

“Relevant Period” means the period from January 1, 2006, through April

13.
“Reverse Append Process” means a search conducted by the fund
administrator through a service such as LexisNexis in response to undeliverable notices
using a social security number (“SSN”) or employee identification number (“EIN”) to
find an Eligible Recipient’s address.
III.

ADMINISTRATORS
A.

Fund Administrator

14.
The Commission has appointed Gilardi and Company LLC (“Gilardi”) as
the fund administrator pursuant to Rule 1105, 17 C.F.R. § 201.1105. 3 Gilardi has
extensive experience in the settlement administration industry and has acted as a fund
administrator for other Commission distributions.
15.
Gilardi may file applications with the Commission for payment of
reasonable fees and expenses in accordance with Rule 1105(d), 17 C.F.R. § 201.1105(d).
Commission approved fees and expenses will be paid from the Fair Fund.
16.
Gilardi will be responsible for overseeing the administration of the Fair
Fund, including calculating Disbursement amounts, preparing accountings, cooperating
with a tax administrator in providing the information necessary to accomplish income tax
compliance, providing investor support services, and disbursing money to Eligible
Recipients pursuant to a Commission order to disburse. To fulfill its responsibilities,
Gilardi will create a website and establish and staff a call center to address investor
inquiries after the Plan is approved.
B.

Bond Requirement

17.
Gilardi is not a Commission employee, so Rule 1105(c), 17 C.F.R. §
201.1105(c), requires that Gilardi “obtain a bond in the manner prescribed in 11 U.S.C §
332, in an amount to be approved by the Commission.”
18.
The Commission ordered that Gilardi obtain a bond in the amount of
4
$364,322. Gilardi obtained a bond in the amount of $364,322 on March 22, 2013.

3

Order Appointing Fund Administrator and Approving Fund Administrator Bond, Exchange Act Rel. No.
69150 (March 15, 2013).
4
Id.

3

C.

Tax Administrator

19.
The Commission has appointed Damasco & Associates LLP (“Damasco”)
as the tax administrator. 5
20.
Damasco will provide tax-related services for the Fair Fund pursuant to
the “Letter Agreement for the Calendar Years Ending December 2011 and 2012” (the
“Letter Agreement”). Damasco will receive payment for reasonable fees and expenses in
accordance with the Letter Agreement. Damasco’s fees and expenses as well as all
payments of tax liabilities will be paid from the Fair Fund.
21.
Gilardi will cooperate with Damasco in obtaining and providing
information necessary for income tax compliance by the Fair Fund in accordance with the
Commission’s Omnibus Order Directing the Appointment of Tax Administrator in
Administrative Proceedings that Establish Distribution Funds 6 and the Letter Agreement.
METHODOLOGY AND NOTICE OF CLAIMANT ELIGIBILITY

IV.
A.
22.
following:

Plan Methodology
Each Eligible Recipient will receive a Disbursement based on the

a. For each month during the Relevant Period:
1. Calculate the net amount owed (“Net Amount Owed”) to Argent
Classic by Centaur as the estimated interest due from Centaur to
Argent Classic on the loan balances. 7
2. Calculate the foregone interest (“Foregone Interest”) on the Net
Amount Owed to Argent Classic from January 1, 2006, through the
date that the fund administrator sends the Distribution Notices
described in Paragraph twenty-three (23). The Foregone Interest will
be calculated using the Federal Short-Term Interest Rate.
3. Add the Net Amount Owed to the Foregone Interest to calculate the
monthly total owed (“Monthly Net Amount Owed”).

5

Order Appointing Tax Administrator, Exchange Act Rel. No. 67824 (Sept. 11, 2012).
Exchange Act Rel. No. 63749 (January 21, 2011).
7
The Net Amount Owed takes into account $13,841 in interest paid by Centaur in April 2009 to Argent
Classic and certain amounts totaling $85,413 owed to Centaur by Argent Classic for performance and
management fees.
6

4

b. Allocate the Monthly Net Amount Owed to each of the Class A and B accounts
based on each account’s opening balance for each month during the Relevant
Period relative to the opening balances of all Eligible Recipients’ accounts
(“Account Holders’ Monthly Distribution Amount”).
c. For Class B accounts, modify the Account Holders’ Monthly Distribution
Amounts by multiplying the amounts by the ratio of the sum of the Class B and C
opening balances (the numerator) to the Class B opening balances (the
denominator). 8
d. For each Class A and B account, sum the Account Holders’ Monthly Distribution
Amounts across all months during the Relevant Period to determine the total
Disbursement owed to each account (“Total Distribution Amount”). If the Total
Distribution Amount is negative, set it equal to zero.
B.

Notice of Eligibility

23.
Within sixty (60) days of the Commission’s approval of the Plan, Gilardi
will provide a written notice to Eligible Recipients informing them of the Fair Fund
(“Distribution Notice”). The Distribution Notice will summarize the Plan and explain
how to obtain a copy of the Plan. If a Distribution Notice is returned as undeliverable,
Gilardi will make all reasonable efforts to ascertain an Eligible Recipient’s correct
address, including utilizing a Reverse Append Process. Gilardi will then resend the
Distribution Notice to the Eligible Recipient’s new address within thirty (30) days of
receipt of the returned Distribution Notice. If the Distribution Notice is returned again,
and Gilardi, despite all reasonable efforts, is unable to find an Eligible Recipient’s correct
address, the Eligible Recipient will no longer be eligible for a distribution, unless the
Eligible Recipient contacts Gilardi as described in paragraph twenty-seven (27) below.
24.
Within thirty (30) days of the Commission’s approval of the Plan, Gilardi
will provide an exemplar of the Distribution Notice on a case-specific website,
www.gilardi.com/Centaurmanagementfairfund (“Gilardi’s Website”). The approved plan
will also be posted on Gilardi’s Website and on the Commission’s website, www.sec.gov.
The Commission staff retains the right to review and approve any material posted on
Gilardi’s Website.
25.
An email address of classact@gilardi.com will be listed in the Distribution
Notice and Gilardi’s Website.

8

Typically, Class B accounts received all income (and bore all loss) due to the Class C accounts. In
exchange, the Class B accounts paid the Class C accounts interest as described in footnote one. This
computation allocates to Class B accounts their pro-rata shares of any additional income they were owed
because of this arrangement.

5

26.
Gilardi will establish a toll-free phone number for Eligible Recipients to
call. The toll-free call center will offer the services of representatives during regular
business hours (Eastern Standard Time) and prerecorded messages during non-business
hours.
C.

Handling of Disputes

27.
An individual that does not receive a Distribution Notice, and believes that
they should have received a Distribution Notice after becoming aware of the Plan (e.g.,
through other Eligible Recipients or on www.sec.gov), must submit documentation to
Gilardi to establish that the individual is in fact eligible to receive a Distribution Notice
within forty-five (45) days after the last Distribution Notices are sent to Eligible
Recipients by Gilardi. Gilardi will send the individual a Distribution Notice within
twenty-one (21) days of receiving the individual’s documentation, if Gilardi determines
that the individual should receive a Distribution Notice.
28.
Disputes will be limited to calculations of Disbursement amounts to
Eligible Recipients. Gilardi must receive within thirty (30) days of the date that an
Eligible Recipient’s Disbursement was made, a dispute in writing along with any
supporting documentation. Following an investigation of the dispute, including a review
of the written dispute and any supporting documentation, within thirty (30) days of
receipt of the dispute, Gilardi will notify an Eligible Recipient submitting the dispute of
its resolution of the dispute, which will be final. This procedure will be set forth in the
Distribution Notice.
PLAN ADMINISTRATION

V.
A.

Control of the Fair Fund

29.
The Fair Fund is subject to the continuing jurisdiction and control of the
Commission. The Fair Fund is currently deposited in the Treasury, where it will remain
until the Commission issues an order authorizing the Disbursement.
30.
The Fair Fund constitutes a Qualified Settlement Fund (“QSF”) under
Section 468B(g) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. § 468B(g), and related
regulations, 26 C.F.R. §§1.468B-1 through 1.468B-5.
31.
Upon approval by the Commission of the Plan, and pursuant to an escrow
agreement acceptable to Commission staff, Gilardi will establish an escrow account (the
“Escrow Account”) and a distribution account (“Distribution Account”) at a financial
institution not unacceptable to Commission staff (the “Financial Institution”) in the name
of and bearing the TIN of the QSF as custodian for the distributees of the Fair Fund. The
name of each account will be in the following form: Name of QSF, TIN, as custodian for
the benefit of investors allocated a Disbursement from the Centaur Fair Fund.

6

32.
Prior to receipt of any funds in the Escrow Account, the Financial
Institution will provide Gilardi an attestation, in a form acceptable to Commission staff,
that all funds in the Escrow Account will be held solely for the Fair Fund and that the
Financial Institution will not place any lien or encumbrance of any kind upon the funds.
33.
Any funds in the Escrow Account may be invested in instruments backed
by the full faith and credit of the United States Government, including AAA-rated United
States Treasury money market funds that directly invest 100% in short term United States
Treasury securities and obligations, provided however, that the money market mutual
funds’ investments in short term United States Treasury securities will not be made
through repurchase agreements or other derivative products.
34.
All costs and expenses associated with the Escrow Account will be paid
from the Fair Fund.
35.
The Financial Institution will hold the Fair Fund assets during the checkcashing period subject to the continuing jurisdiction and control of the Commission.
Gilardi will be the signer on the Escrow Account.
36.
Upon transfer from the Treasury, the Fair Fund assets will be held in the
Escrow Account, separate from the Financial Institution’s assets, until the presentation of
checks.
B.

Procedures for Distributing the Fair Fund

37.
Gilardi will take reasonable steps to calculate Disbursement amounts for
Eligible Recipients, resolve disputes, and disburse the Fair Fund to Eligible Recipients
pursuant to a Commission order to disburse.
38.
To disburse the Fair Fund, Gilardi will compile and submit a list of payees
with multiple identifiers including an Eligible Recipient’s name, address, SSN and/or
EIN along with a Disbursement amount to Commission staff.
39.
Gilardi will also provide a “reasonable assurances letter” to the
Commission staff, representing that the list of payees: a) was compiled in accordance
with the Plan; b) is accurate as to Eligible Recipients’ names, addresses, and
Disbursements; and c) provides all information necessary to make Disbursements to each
Eligible Recipient.
40.
Upon receipt and review of the payee list, the Commission staff will
obtain an order from the Commission to disburse the Fair Fund pursuant to Rule
1101(b)(6), 17 C.F.R. § 201.1101(b)(6). Upon issuance of an order by the Commission,
Commission staff will direct the transfer of funds to the Escrow Account. Gilardi will
then use its best efforts to disburse funds within five (5) business days of the release of
the funds into the Escrow Account (“Distribution Date”). All efforts will be coordinated

7

to keep the time between the receipt of the funds and the transmittal process to a
minimum.
41.
Checks will be issued by Gilardi from the account at the Financial
Institution. All checks will bear a stale date of one hundred twenty (120) days from the
date of issue. Checks that are not negotiated within the stale date will be voided, and the
Financial Institution will be instructed to stop payment on those checks, except as
provided below in subsection C of this section.
42.
Disbursements will be preceded or accompanied by a communication that
includes, as appropriate: a) a statement characterizing the Disbursement; b) a description
of tax information reporting and other related tax matters as provided by the Tax
Administrator; c) a statement that checks will be void after one hundred twenty (120)
days from the date of their issue; and d) the contact information for Gilardi to be used in
the event of any questions regarding the Disbursement (“Disbursement Letter”). All of
Gilardi’s correspondences relating to the Disbursements will be submitted to Commission
staff for review and approval. Disbursement checks, on their face or in the
accompanying mailing, will state that the Disbursement is from a Fair Fund created by
the United States Securities and Exchange Commission for the benefit of Class A
Limited Partners or Class B Limited Partners in Argent Classic Convertible Arbitrage
Fund L.P.
43.
Electronic transfers may be utilized to transfer funds in accordance with
the approved Disbursements. Electronic transfers will be initiated by Gilardi using a twoparty check and balance system, whereby completion of an electronic transfer will
require an authorization by Gilardi’s accountant and Chief Financial Officer.
44.
Gilardi will utilize the Financial Institution’s “positive pay” system to
control Disbursements by check from the QSF account. The positive pay system
provides protection against fraud arising from counterfeit or amount-altered checks. The
positive pay system will require, at a minimum, confirmation by the Financial Institution
that all checks presented for payment match the identifiers and amounts on the validated
list prior to payment of the presented obligation.
C.

Returned or Un-Cashed Checks

45.
Gilardi is responsible for accounting for all payments and transactions
relating to the Fair Fund, including any checks that expire or are uncashed. Gilardi is
responsible for researching and reconciling all returned items due to non-delivery,
insufficient addresses, and/or any other deficiencies and will reissue checks as
appropriate.
46.
In cases where an Eligible Recipient is unable to endorse a Disbursement
check as written (e.g., name change as a result of divorce or Eligible Recipient is
deceased), and the Eligible Recipient or its lawful representative requests the reissuance
of a Disbursement check under a different name, Gilardi will request, and must receive,

8

documentation supporting the change. Gilardi will review the documentation to
determine the authenticity and propriety of the change request. If such change request is
properly documented, Gilardi will issue an appropriately redrawn check to the requesting
party.
47.
If a Disbursement check is returned as “undeliverable,” Gilardi will
undertake a Reverse Append Process to locate the most up-to-date address on file within
fourteen (14) business days after receipt of such returned check. Gilardi will mail a new
check to the last known address, if any, obtained through such database search. If such
check is not negotiated by its one hundred twenty (120) day stale date, that check will be
voided and Gilardi will instruct the Financial Institution to delete the check from the
register.
48.
Periodically, at times to be determined by Gilardi in consultation with
Commission staff, Gilardi will submit to the Commission staff a list by state of all
undelivered mail that has been returned due to insufficient or incorrect addresses and for
which Gilardi has been unable to locate an up-to-date address through the Reverse
Append Process.
49.
If any money remains in the Fair Fund ninety (90) days after the
Disbursement Date, Gilardi will make reasonable efforts to contact Eligible Recipients
who have failed to negotiate any checks over $100.00 (other than checks returned as
“undeliverable”) and take appropriate actions to re-issue final checks. Gilardi will void
all reissue checks that remain un-cashed sixty (60) days after the date of final issue.
50.
A residual within the Fair Fund will be established for any amounts
remaining after all funds have been distributed. The residual may include funds reserved
for future taxes and related expenses, amounts from checks that have not been cashed,
amounts from checks that were not delivered or accepted upon delivery, tax refunds, and
Disbursements that did not reach Eligible Recipients. Any funds held by Gilardi after the
distribution will be sent to the Commission.
D.

Accounting

51.
Pursuant to Rule 1105(f), 17 C.F.R. § 201.1105(f), once the Fair Fund has
been transferred from the Treasury to the Financial Institution, Gilardi will file an
accounting with the Commission during the first ten (10) days of each calendar quarter on
a standardized accounting form provided by Commission staff. Gilardi will file an
accounting of all monies earned or received and all monies spent in connection with the
administration of the Plan. Upon final distributions to Eligible Recipients, and the
payment of taxes and fees, Gilardi will submit a final accounting for approval by the
Commission on a standardized final accounting form provided by Commission staff.

9

E.

Fair Fund Termination

52.
The Fair Fund will be eligible for termination and Gilardi will be eligible
for discharge after all of the following have occurred: a) a final accounting, in a standard
accounting form provided by Commission staff, has been submitted by Gilardi, and has
been approved by the Commission; b) all taxes, fees, and expenses have been paid by the
Fair Fund; and c) any amount remaining in the Fair Fund has been received by the
Commission. When the Commission has approved the final accounting, Commission
staff will seek an order from the Commission to approve the termination of the Fair Fund,
discharge of the fund administrator, and the transfer of any amount remaining in the Fair
Fund to the United States Treasury.
F.

Changes to Plan

53.
Gilardi will take reasonable and appropriate steps to disburse the Fair
Fund according to the Plan. Gilardi will inform Commission staff of any changes needed
in the Plan. Upon agreement with Commission staff, Gilardi may implement immaterial
changes to the Plan to effectuate its general purposes. If a change is deemed to be
material by Commission staff, Commission approval of the change will be required prior
to the implementation of the change by amending or modifying the Plan, which may be
done upon the motion of any party, Gilardi, or the Commission’s own motion.
54.
For good cause shown, and in consultation with Commission staff, the
Plan’s procedural deadlines created by the Plan may be extended.

10

