UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78754 / September 1, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17524

In the Matter of

ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE
COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

JILBERT TAHMAZIAN, Esq.,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Jilbert
Tahmazian (“Respondent” or “Tahmazian”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s
Rules of Practice.1

II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer of
Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the purpose of
1

Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:

The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, may, by order, . . .
suspend from appearing or practicing before it any attorney . . . who has been by name (A) [p]ermanently enjoined
by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission,
from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and
regulations thereunder; or (B) [f]ound by any court of competent jurisdiction in an action brought by the
Commission to which he or she is a party … to have violated (unless the violation was found not to have been
willful) or aided and abetted the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and
regulations thereunder.

1

these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to
the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the
findings contained in Section III.2 below, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of
this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s
Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth
below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Jilbert Tahmazian (age 55), a U.S. citizen and a resident of Glendale, California,
is an attorney licensed to practice in California since 1989.
2.
On February 11, 2016, the Commission filed a complaint against Tahmazian in
SEC v. Tahmazian (Civil Action No. 2:16-CV-954), in the United States District Court for the
Central District of California, Western Division, that was amended on May 2, 2016 (the
“complaint”). On August 26, 2016, the court entered a final judgment permanently enjoining
Tahmazian by consent, from future violations of Sections 5(a), 5(c), 17(a)(1) and 17(a)(3) of the
Securities Act of 1933, and Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rules
10b-5(a) and (c) thereunder.
3.
The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that from at least mid2009 through at least December 2010, Tahmazian and two of his clients engaged in a
fraudulent, “prime bank” scheme. Tahmazian’s clients were a limited liability company that
entered into investment contracts used in the scheme and its sole principal2 (collectively, the
“Clients”). The complaint further alleges that Tahmazian and his Clients obtained
approximately $6 million from at least four investors who invested in the fictitious investment
contracts.
4.
The Commission’s complaint also alleged that no registration statement or
exemptive form was filed with the Commission with respect to the offer and sale of the “prime
bank” investments. The complaint further alleged that Tahmazian or his Clients provided no
financial statements to investors or made any efforts to obtain financial information from
investors.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest
to impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Tahmazian’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s
Rules of Practice, effective immediately, that:
2

The principal is currently a fugitive living in a foreign country after being criminally charged in connection
with a separate “prime bank” fraud scheme.

2

A.
an attorney.

Tahmazian is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

