UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-15014

In the Matter of
JP TURNER & COMPANY,
LLC, and WILLIAM L. MELLO
Respondents.

PLAN OF DISTRIBUTION
1.
Purpose and Background. The Division of Enforcement submits this
Proposed Plan of Distribution (“Plan”) to the United States Securities and Exchange
Commission (“Commission”) pursuant to Rule 1101 of the Commission’s Rules on Fair
Fund and Disgorgement Plans (“Rules”). 1 This Plan proposes a distribution of certain
funds collected by the Commission in this proceeding for the benefit of affected
customers that were harmed when their accounts were churned by three registered
representatives employed by JP Turner & Company, LLC (“JP Turner”) from January 1,
2008, through December 31, 2009.
On September 10, 2012, the Commission entered an Order Instituting
Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 and Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and
Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”) against JP Turner and its former president,
William L. Mello (collectively, “Respondents”). 2
The Order stated that Respondents failed reasonably to supervise three registered
representatives who churned affected customers’ accounts for the purpose of generating
commission business by engaging in excessive trading in disregard of the affected
customers’ investment objectives and financial needs. According to the Order, JP Turner
reaped approximately $845,000 in commissions, fees, and margin interest as a result of
the registered representatives’ churning.

1
2

17 C.F.R. § 201.1101.
Exchange Act Rel. No. 67808 (Sept. 10, 2012).

In anticipation of the institution of the proceedings, Respondents submitted Offers
of Settlement, which the Commission accepted. Pursuant to the Order, JP Turner paid
disgorgement of $200,000, prejudgment interest of $16,051, and a civil money penalty in
the amount of $200,000, and William L. Mello paid a civil money penalty in the amount
of $45,000 for a combined payment of $461,051. The penalties paid are to be transferred
to the United States Treasury. The remaining amount, $216,051, constitutes the fund
available for distribution (the “Distribution Fund”). The Distribution Fund is subject to
the continuing jurisdiction and control of the Commission and the Distribution Fund is
currently on deposit in a Commission designated non-interest bearing account at the
United States Department of Treasury (“U.S. Treasury”). This Plan is subject to approval
by the Commission, and the Commission retains jurisdiction over the implementation of
this Plan.
Under this Plan, the Distribution Fund, less any reserve for taxes, fees or other
expenses of administering this Plan (the “Net Distribution Fund”), will be available for
distribution to Eligible Customers as defined in paragraph 4 of this Plan.
2.
Fund Administrator. Nichola L. Timmons, Assistant Director of
Distributions, Logistics and Services in the Commission’s Division of Enforcement, is
proposed to act as the administrator of the Distribution Fund (“Fund Administrator”). As
a Commission employee, the Fund Administrator will receive no compensation from the
Distribution Fund for her services in administering the Distribution Fund. In accordance
with Rule 1105(c) of the Commission’s Rules, 17 C.F.R. § 201.1105(c), no bond is
required since the Fund Administrator is a Commission employee. In carrying out her
duties, the Fund Administrator may be assisted by other Commission staff acting under
her supervision.
The Fund Administrator will, among other things: oversee the administration of
the Distribution Fund; obtain mailing information for Eligible Customers, distribute
money from the assets of the Distribution Fund in accordance with this Plan, resolve
disputes, distribute the Distribution Fund to Eligible Customers, prepare a final
accounting with assistance from the Tax Administrator as defined in paragraph 3 of this
Plan, and provide the Tax Administrator with funds to pay tax liabilities and tax
compliance fees and costs, pursuant to the Omnibus Order Directing the Appointment of
Tax Administrator in Administrative Proceedings that Establish Distribution Funds
(Exchange Act Rel. No. 68683 (Jan. 17, 2013)).
3.
Tax Administrator. The Commission has appointed Damasco and
Associates, LLP as the Tax Administrator (“Tax Administrator”) of the Distribution Fund
(Exchange Act Rel. No. 67958 (Oct. 2, 2012)). The Fund Administrator will cooperate
with the Tax Administrator in providing information necessary to accomplish the income
tax compliance and any other work ordered to the Tax Administrator by the Commission.
The Tax Administrator will be compensated for reasonable costs and expenses from the
Distribution Fund in accordance with its 2011-2012 Engagement Letter Agreement with
the Commission, and tax obligations will be paid out of the Distribution Fund.

2

4.
Specification of Eligible Distribution Fund Recipients. The Fund
Administrator will make distributions from the Net Distribution Fund to those JP Turner
customers that have been harmed by the conduct described in the Order (individually,
each an “Eligible Customer” and collectively, the “Eligible Customers”). A customer
will be deemed harmed only if that customer suffered a net harm by virtue of the conduct
described in the Order and as calculated pursuant to paragraph 7 of this Plan. 3
5.
No claims-made process. The Distribution Fund is not being distributed
according to a claims-made process, so the procedures for providing notice and for
making and approving claims are not applicable.
6.
Qualified Settlement Fund. The Distribution Fund constitutes a Qualified
Settlement Fund (“QSF”) under Section 468B(g) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26
U.S.C. § 468B(g), and related regulations, 26 C.F.R. §§ 1.468B-1 through 1.468B-5.
7.
Methodology for Determining Distribution Amounts. The Fund
Administrator will determine the amount to be distributed to each Eligible Customer in
the following manner. First, the Fund Administrator will determine, for each affected
customer, using brokerage statements and other information collected by the Commission
staff, the total amount of commissions, fees, and margin interest that each affected
customer was charged as a result of the churning described in the Order (“Gross Harm
Amount”).
Second, for each affected customer, the Fund Administrator will determine a net
harm amount suffered by virtue of the conduct described in the Order (“Net Harm
Amount”). The Net Harm Amount is defined as the affected customer’s Gross Harm
Amount, less any monies the affected customer received as settlements, insurance, or
other payments in connection with the conduct at issue in this matter from Respondents,
or any other third party.
Because the total of all Eligible Customers’ Net Harm Amounts is less than the
approximate amount of the Net Distribution Fund, the Fund Administrator anticipates the
Distribution Fund will be able to pay each Eligible Customer the Net Harm Amount, plus
the time value of money. The Fund Administrator will then calculate the present value of
each affected customer’s Net Harm Amount by adjusting the customer’s harm amounts
for the time value of money. 4 Each affected customer with a Present Value of Net Harm
Amount that is greater than $100 is an Eligible Customer for purposes of receiving a
3

The Commission staff is aware of approximately seven (7) JP Turner customers who were harmed by the
conduct described in the Order. However, since some of these customers have already been fully
reimbursed for their harm, they do not meet the definition of an Eligible Customer for purposes of this
Plan. As a result of the smaller pool of Eligible Customers, it is anticipated that all Eligible Customers will
be fully reimbursed for their harm (the commissions, fees, and margin interest that each affected customer
was charged as a result of the churning).
4
The present value calculation applies interest to the harm amount and compounds quarterly from the date
of the harm through December 31, 2014 using the Federal quarterly short-term interest rate, as determined
by the Internal Revenue Service for each calendar quarter.

3

distribution pursuant to this Plan. An Eligible Customer’s payment from the Distribution
Fund will not exceed his or her Present Value Net Harm Amount.
In the view of the Fund Administrator, this methodology constitutes a fair and
reasonable allocation of the Distribution Fund. Based on this methodology, it is
anticipated that there will be one distribution to the Eligible Customers, which will take
place as outlined in paragraph 9 of this Plan, with each Eligible Customer’s Distribution
Amount equal to his or her Present Value of Net Harm Amount. Based on this
methodology, the individual Net Harm Amounts and Distribution Amounts for Eligible
Customers are as follows:

Eligible
Customer
Eligible
Customer #1
Eligible
Customer #2
Eligible
Customer #3
Total

Net Harm
Amount

Time
Value of
Money on
Net Harm
Amount

Distribution
Amount

None

$90,684

$1,903

$92,587

$35,706

None

$35,706

$715

$36,421

$53,080

None

$53,080

$2,464

$55,544

$179,470

$0

$179,470

$5,082

$184,552

Gross
Harm
Amount

Third
Party
Payment
Received

$90,684

8.
Procedures for Locating and Notifying Eligible Customers. On the basis
of information obtained by the Commission staff based on review and analysis of
applicable records, the Fund Administrator will identify the Eligible Customers. Within
sixty (60) days of the Commission’s approval of this Plan, the Fund Administrator will
send each Eligible Customer a notice by United States Postal Service regarding the
Commission’s approval of this Plan, and a check for each customer’s Distribution Fund
payment, and, including as appropriate, a statement characterizing the distribution, a link
to this Plan on the Commission’s website and instructions for requesting a copy of this
Plan, a Net Harm Amount calculation and a preliminary Gross Distribution Amount, a
description of the tax information reporting and other related tax matters, the procedure
for the distribution as set forth in this Plan, and the name of the Fund Administrator to
contact with questions regarding the distribution (“Plan Notice”). 5 The Fund
Administrator will coordinate with the Tax Administrator to request information from
each Eligible Customer that is needed to accomplish the distribution in accordance with
applicable tax requirements relating to the Distribution Fund.

5

Information obtained from JP Turner may be provided to the Fund Administrator for purposes of
contacting investors.

4

If a Plan Notice and Distribution Fund payment are returned as undeliverable, the
Fund Administrator will make all reasonable efforts to ascertain an Eligible Customer’s
correct address. The Fund Administrator will then resend the Plan Notice and
Distribution Fund payment to the Eligible Customer’s new address within thirty (30) days
of receipt of the returned Plan Notice and distribution check. If the Plan Notice and
Distribution Fund payment are returned again, and the Fund Administrator, despite all
reasonable efforts, is unable to find an Eligible Customer’s correct address, the Eligible
Customer’s payment will be deemed undistributed funds to be handled as described in
paragraph 16.
9.
Distribution Timing. The Fund Administrator will use her best efforts to
start the distribution within sixty (60) days of this Plan’s approval.
10.
Bureau of the Fiscal Service; Validation and Approval of Disbursement of
the Distribution Fund. The Distribution Fund disbursement to Eligible Customers will be
implemented by the Commission and disbursed through the U.S. Treasury’s Bureau of
the Fiscal Service (“BFS”), which will mail checks or electronically transfer funds to
each payee as instructed by the Fund Administrator. The Fund Administrator will
compile the payee information and prepare a payment file in a Commission-approved
format for submission to the Commission to make the disbursements through BFS.
Pursuant to Rule 1101(b)(6), the Fund Administrator will obtain an order from the
Commission to disburse the Distribution Fund.
The Fund Administrator will work with BFS to obtain information about
uncashed checks, any returned items due to non-delivery, insufficient addresses, and/or
other deficiencies. The Fund Administrator is responsible for researching and reconciling
errors and reissuing payments when possible. The Fund Administrator also is responsible
for accounting for all payments. Checks issued by BFS will state on their face that they
are valid for one year. If any checks issued are not cashed within the one year time
period, the Fund Administrator will work with BFS to identify all uncashed checks.
In the event that there are uncashed checks, the Fund Administrator will determine the
extent to which under the circumstances in this distribution it would be appropriate and
feasible to make additional efforts to contact investors holding such checks. Following
the conclusion of any efforts by the Fund Administrator to locate any such investors,
remaining uncashed checks will be deemed undistributed funds to be handled as
described in paragraph 16 of this Plan.
11.
Accountings. When all funds have been disbursed except for the residual
described in paragraph 16 of this Plan, the Fund Administrator will submit a final
accounting pursuant to Rule 1105(f) for the approval of the Commission prior to the
discharge of the Fund Administrator. Since the funds are being held in a Commission
designated account at the U.S. Treasury, and Commission staff is proposed as the Fund
Administrator, no interim accountings will be made.
12.
Expenses of Administration. Fees and other expenses of administering this
Plan will be paid from the Distribution Fund.

5

13.
Amendments and Procedural Deadline Extensions. The Fund
Administrator will take reasonable and appropriate steps to distribute the Distribution
Fund according to this Plan. If there are any changes to the Plan that are determined to
be material, Commission approval is required prior to implementation by amending this
Plan, which may be done upon the motion of any party, the Fund Administrator, or upon
the Commission’s own motion. Immaterial changes may be made by the Fund
Administrator. For good cause shown, the Fund Administrator may extend any of the
procedural dates set forth in this Plan.
14.
Procedure for the Receipt of Additional Funds. No additional funds are
expected to be received for this matter so this Plan does not provide for a procedure for
such funds.
15.
Procedures for Disputing Amounts Received. Disputes will be limited to
calculations of disbursement amounts to Eligible Customers. Within thirty (30) days of
the date that an Eligible Customer’s disbursement is made, the Fund Administrator must
receive a written communication detailing the dispute along with any supporting
documentation. The Fund Administrator will investigate the dispute, and such
investigation will include a review of the written dispute as well as any supporting
documentation. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of the written dispute, the Fund
Administrator will notify the Eligible Customer of her resolution of the dispute, which
will be final. This procedure will be set forth in the Plan Notice.
16.
Disposition of Undistributed Funds. A residual account within the
Distribution Fund will be established for any amounts remaining after the final
disbursement to Eligible Customers from the Distribution Fund. The residual account
may include funds reserved for future taxes and related expenses, distributions from
checks that have not been cashed, from checks that were not delivered or from funds
returned to the Commission, tax refunds for overpayment or for waiver of IRS penalties.
All funds remaining in the residual account will be transferred to the U.S. Treasury after
the final accounting is approved by the Commission.
17.
Final Accounting and Discharge of the Fund Administrator. Following the
final disbursement from the Distribution Fund to Eligible Customers, the Fund
Administrator will make arrangements for the final payment of taxes and Tax
Administrator fees and will submit a final accounting to the Commission. When the
Commission has approved the final accounting, staff will seek an order from the
Commission: (1) to transfer the remaining residual amounts to the U.S. Treasury; and (2)
to discharge the Fund Administrator.

6

