UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 76882 / January 13, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17048

In the Matter of

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND REVOKING
REGISTRATION OF SECURITIES
PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(j) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Champion Enterprises, Inc.
(a/k/a CEI Liquidation Estate ),
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it necessary
and appropriate for the protection of investors that proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted pursuant to Section 12(j) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange
Act”), against Champion Enterprises, Inc. (a/k/a CEI Liquidation Estate) (“CJHBQ” or
“Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, CJHBQ has submitted an
Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.
Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on
behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting
or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the
subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, CJHBQ consents to the entry of
this Order Instituting Proceedings, Making Findings, and Revoking Registration of
Securities Pursuant to Section 12(j) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”),
and to the findings as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and the Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds:

1.
CJHBQ (CIK No. 814068) is a dissolved Michigan corporation
located in Troy, Michigan with a class of securities registered with the Commission
under Exchange Act Section 12. On November 15, 2009, CJHBQ filed a Chapter
11 bankruptcy petition in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of
Delaware, which was still pending as of May 13, 2015. As of May 13, 2015, the
common stock of CJHBQ (symbol CJHBQ) was not publicly quoted or traded.
2.
CJHBQ has failed to comply with Exchange Act Section 13(a) and
Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder because it has not filed any periodic reports
with the Commission since the period ended July 4, 2009.
IV.
Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act provides as follows:
The Commission is authorized, by order, as it deems necessary or appropriate for
the protection of investors to deny, to suspend the effective date of, to suspend for a
period not exceeding twelve months, or to revoke the registration of a security, if
the Commission finds, on the record after notice and opportunity for hearing, that
the issuer of such security has failed to comply with any provision of this title or the
rules and regulations thereunder. No member of a national securities exchange,
broker, or dealer shall make use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of
interstate commerce to effect any transaction in, or to induce the purchase or sale
of, any security the registration of which has been and is suspended or revoked
pursuant to the preceding sentence.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it necessary and appropriate for
the protection of investors to impose the sanction specified in Respondent’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, pursuant to Section 12(j) of the Exchange
Act, that registration of each class of CJHBQ’s securities registered pursuant to Section
12 of the Exchange Act be, and hereby is, revoked.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

2

