UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 79202 / October 31, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17656
:
:
:
In the Matter of
:
:
Joel Pensley, Esq.,
:
:
Respondent.
:
:
:
____________________________________ :

ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE
102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF
PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Joel
Pensley (“Respondent” or “Pensley”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of
Practice.1
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Respondent admits
the facts set forth in Section III.2, below, acknowledges that his conduct violated the federal
securities laws, admits the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these
1

Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:

The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, may, by order, . . .
suspend from appearing or practicing before it any attorney . . . who has been by name (A) [p]ermanently enjoined
by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission,
from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and
regulations thereunder; or (B) [f]ound by any court of competent jurisdiction in an action brought by the
Commission to which he or she is a party … to have violated (unless the violation was found not to have been
willful) or aided and abetted the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and
regulations thereunder.

proceedings, and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings
Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing
Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Pensley, age 74, is a resident of New York and an attorney licensed to
practice law in New York.
2.
On May 5, 2010, the Commission filed a complaint against Pensley in SEC
v. Spongetech Delivery Systems, Inc., et al. (Civil Action No. 10-cv-02031-DLI), in the United
States District Court for the Eastern District of New York. On August 4, 2016, a judgment was
entered by consent against Pensley, permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 5
and 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), and Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act
and Rule 10b-5 thereunder. Pensley also was permanently enjoined from participating in any
offering of penny stock, and from providing professional legal services in connection with the offer
or sale of securities pursuant to any exemption from the registration provisions of the Securities
Act.
3.
The Commission’s complaint alleged that Pensley knowingly or recklessly
made false and misleading statements in attorney opinion letters stating that the restrictive legends
could be removed from shares of Spongetech’s common stock. In his opinion letters, Pensley
falsely represented that RM Enterprises International, Inc. (“RM Enterprises”), as the parent of
Spongetech, was “spinning-off” shares of Spongetech to RM Enterprises’ shareholders, and thus
Spongetech’s transfer agent could remove the restrictive legends from the “spun-off” shares. In
fact, Pensley was aware at the time that he prepared his opinion letters that: (a) there was no proper
basis to remove the restrictive legends from Spongetech’s stock; (b) RM Enterprises was issuing
the shares for consideration and that the shares were not being “spun off” pro rata to RM
Enterprises shareholders; (c) most recipients identified in the opinion letters were not RM
Enterprises shareholders; (d) RM Enterprises had no valid business purpose for the issuances; (e)
Pensley himself received shares in these transactions as compensation for his services; and (f) no
valid exemption or safe harbor from registration applied to these share issuances.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Pensley’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s
Rules of Practice, effective immediately, that:

2

A.
attorney.

Pensley is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an

By the Commission.
Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

