UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 70533 / September 26, 2013
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 3682 / September 26, 2013
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 30736 / September 26, 2013
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-15526

In the Matter of
GEORGE B. FRANZ III
and
RUBY CORPORATION,
Respondents.

ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
AND CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 203(e), (f), AND
(k) OF THE INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT
OF 1940, SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AND SECTION
9(b) OF THE INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT
OF 1940

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission” or “SEC”) deems it
appropriate and in the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist
proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Sections 203(e), (f), and (k) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”), Section 21C of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act
of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”) against George B. Franz III and Ruby Corporation
(collectively, “Respondents”).

II.
After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement alleges that:
1.
From 2007 until 2011, Andrew J. Franz misappropriated over $490,000
from about 50 accounts of clients of Respondent Ruby Corporation, a registered
investment adviser owned and managed by his father, Respondent George Franz.
George Franz ignored signs of his son’s malfeasance and failed to take action to stop
further thefts, thereby failing to protect Ruby clients. Moreover, George Franz not only
declined to promptly tell Ruby’s clients that Andrew Franz had stolen from them, but
actively concealed from clients that they had been victimized. Ruby clients were
therefore deprived the opportunity to decide whether, in light of Andrew Franz’s thefts
that Ruby had failed to prevent, they were comfortable remaining as clients of Ruby.
George Franz impeded both the SEC’s examination and investigation of Ruby,
providing the SEC staff with misinformation and fabricated documents in an effort to
mislead the staff as to his poor supervision of Andrew Franz and his failure to disclose
thefts to Ruby clients. This misconduct violated, among other things, the antifraud
provisions of the Advisers Act.
A.

RESPONDENTS

2.
George B. Franz III. George Franz founded Ruby Corporation, a registered
investment adviser located in Beachwood, Ohio, in 2000 and is its sole owner and
principal. George Franz had supervisory responsibility over Andrew Franz from at least
2006 through 2011. George Franz, age 70, is a resident of Moreland Hills, Ohio and
Marco Island, Florida. George Franz received his Series 6 license in 1982 and was
associated with various brokerage firms from 1991 until September 2006, when he
ceased to be associated with any brokerage firm.
3.
Ruby Corporation. Ruby Corporation (“Ruby”) is an Ohio corporation
with its principal place of business in Beachwood, Ohio. Ruby is registered with the
Commission as an investment adviser. Since 2007, Ruby has had two or three part-time
employees on its staff in addition to its owner George Franz. As of December 2012,
Ruby had 99 clients with assets under management of $21 million. Ruby’s clients are
typically middle-age and retirement-age individuals in the Cleveland, Youngstown,
and Dayton, Ohio areas. Ruby’s client accounts are discretionary and are invested
exclusively in mutual funds and variable annuities.

2

B.

OTHER RELEVANT INDIVIDUAL

Andrew J. Franz. Andrew Franz, age 40, is a resident of Aurora, Ohio.
Andrew Franz received his Series 6 license in 2002 and was a registered representative
with various broker-dealers until March 2011. Andrew Franz was a paid employee of
Ruby from 2002 until 2007, after which he ceased receiving a salary but continued to
manage Ruby’s operations, specifically the billing of management fees on client
accounts. At all times until his termination from Ruby in 2011, Andrew Franz
maintained an office at Ruby.
3.

In March 2012, the SEC filed an emergency action against Andrew Franz
in U.S. District Court, alleging among other things, that he had misappropriated funds
from Ruby clients by issuing fraudulent management fee requests, and obtained an
emergency asset freeze and a permanent injunction. SEC v. Andrew J. Franz, 5:12-cv00642 (N.D. Ohio). After an evidentiary hearing, in June 2012 the court made findings of
fact, held that Andrew Franz had violated the antifraud provisions of the Exchange Act
and the Advisers Act, and entered a permanent injunction against further violations of
those provisions. On March 15, 2013, the Commission permanently barred Andrew
Franz from the securities industry by declaring as final an initial decision by ALJ
Cameron Elliot dated January 18, 2013.
4.

On July 23, 2013, Andrew Franz pled guilty to charges of wire fraud, tax
fraud, and violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Sections 206(1) and (2) of
the Advisers Act. U.S. v. Andrew J. Franz, 1:13-cr-00331 (N.D. Ohio). Andrew Franz is
scheduled to be sentenced in October 2013.
5.

C.

FACTS
Andrew Franz misappropriated over $490,000 from Ruby clients.

From 2007 through early 2011, Andrew Franz misappropriated over
$490,000 from approximately 50 Ruby client accounts via fraudulent management fee
and redemption requests. The majority of these fraudulently withdrawn funds were
initially deposited into Andrew Franz’s bank accounts; a smaller portion of the stolen
funds was initially deposited into Ruby’s bank accounts.
6.

Ruby clients’ funds were primarily invested in variable annuities or
mutual funds. Most Ruby clients signed limited powers of attorney permitting Ruby to
request management fees directly from their securities accounts. Andrew Franz and
Ruby’s office manager were responsible for calculating and requesting Ruby’s
management fees directly from the securities custodians, which was performed
7.

3

quarterly. These fees were calculated based on the ending balance of the client’s account
as of the last day of the previous quarter. Most Ruby clients were charged .5% of the
quarterly ending balance once per quarter.
Andrew Franz’s role in the fee request process allowed him to easily
misappropriate client funds. In some instances, Andrew Franz provided false client
account balances to the Ruby office manager who calculated fees. Sometimes, after the
office manager calculated the appropriate management fees and prepared the fee
request, Andrew Franz changed the amounts before submitting the request to the
annuity or mutual fund company. In other instances, after the office manager prepared
and submitted the legitimate management fee request, Andrew Franz submitted
additional fraudulent management fee requests days or weeks later.
8.

In some instances, Andrew Franz submitted fee requests that instructed
that checks be mailed to his home address instead of Ruby’s office address. In addition,
Andrew Franz was able to easily intercept management fee checks mailed to Ruby
because he was the primary person who opened mail at Ruby and because many checks
were addressed “Attn: Andrew Franz.”
9.

Starting in approximately 2006, George Franz had Andrew Franz begin to
take over Ruby’s operations. George Franz intended to transfer the business to Andrew
Franz, since George Franz expected to retire in the next few years.
10.

From 2006 through 2011, George Franz spent approximately four months
a year in Florida, where he had a residence. During those months, Andrew Franz was
present at Ruby’s offices and managed Ruby’s daily operations. Even when George
Franz was in Ohio, he often worked from home, and let Andrew Franz continue to
manage Ruby’s daily operations.
11.

From at least 2006 through 2011, George Franz had sole supervisory
responsibility over Andrew Franz as an associated person of Ruby.
12.

From at least January 2007 through early 2011, George Franz became
aware of numerous signs of, and instances of, fraud by Andrew Franz.
Andrew Franz’s repeated misappropriation of client assets was made
possible by George Franz’s failure to supervise him or take any action to stop him. From
January 2007 through early 2011, George Franz became aware of numerous indications
of fraud by Andrew Franz.
13.

4

By January 2007, George Franz was aware that in 2006, Andrew Franz had
stolen approximately $12,500 in management fee checks due to Ruby. In response,
George Franz instructed Ruby’s tax preparer to issue an IRS form 1099 from the
company to Andrew Franz for these stolen funds. George Franz did not disclose this
information to Ruby clients or take steps to prevent additional fraud by Andrew Franz.
14.

In approximately April 2009, George Franz learned that Andrew Franz
had stolen hundreds of thousands of dollars from the Marie Franz Trust, a family trust
for which George Franz served as trustee. The trust assets had been invested in mutual
funds. George Franz learned that Andrew Franz had caused the mutual fund company
to issue checks to Ruby’s address or to George Franz’s home. Andrew Franz then
obtained the checks from Ruby’s mail or his father’s mailbox.
15.

In approximately August 2009, George Franz learned that Andrew Franz
had also stolen numerous other management fee checks issued to Ruby. George Franz
also learned that Andrew Franz had diverted a large portion of the stolen funds from
management fee checks and the trust into Ruby’s bank accounts disguised as revenue,
in order to conceal Ruby’s dwindling income from his father. George Franz never
disclosed this information to Ruby clients.
16.

In approximately August 2009, George Franz instructed Ruby’s
accountant and tax preparer to conduct a review of Andrew Franz’s personal bank
account to determine how much Andrew Franz had stolen and what he did with the
stolen funds. George Franz asked for this review because the stolen funds deposited
into Ruby’s accounts, disguised as legitimate revenue, caused Ruby and George Franz
to overreport income and thus to overpay income tax.
17.

In or before December 2009, George Franz learned that Andrew Franz had
stolen a total of about $800,000 from the Marie Franz Trust from approximately August
2007 through April 2009, depositing these funds into his personal bank account.
18.

In or before December 2009, George Franz also learned that from
approximately November 2007 through June 2009, Andrew Franz had diverted a total
of approximately $170,000 in management fee checks issued from securities custodians
to Ruby, depositing them into his personal bank account. George Franz did not disclose
this information to Ruby clients.
19.

In or before December 2009, Ruby’s accountant told George Franz that
someone should analyze whether the diverted checks withdrawn from client accounts
were properly requested (and thus constituted thefts from Ruby) or fraudulently
requested (and thus constituted thefts from Ruby clients). George Franz assured the
20.

5

accountant that he would personally perform this analysis. Some of these checks had
been fraudulently requested.
In or before December 2009, George Franz learned that from August 2007
through July 2009, Andrew Franz had written checks from his personal bank account to
Ruby totaling approximately $684,000, primarily from the stolen funds. These personal
checks were reported as income in Ruby’s accounting records, based on
misrepresentations by Andrew Franz to Ruby personnel or Ruby’s outside accountant.
21.

In or before December 2009, George Franz also learned of various other
suspicious transactions in Andrew Franz’s personal bank account, including a check
written to a mutual fund company for “overpayment of fees,” various checks to
Andrew Franz’s company, Wingate, Inc., and checks written directly to Ruby clients.
22.

In approximately December 2009, George Franz told Ruby’s accountant
that he was taking steps to ensure that Andrew Franz did not continue his misconduct.
In particular, George Franz told the accountant that Andrew Franz was no longer
permitted to touch incoming mail at Ruby and that he was no longer permitted to be
involved in any deposits into Ruby’s bank accounts. Despite these representations,
Andrew Franz continued handling incoming mail at Ruby and making deposits into
Ruby’s bank accounts without consequence. George Franz did not disclose this
information to Ruby clients.
23.

Meanwhile, starting in approximately July 2009, George Franz became
aware of numerous suspicious problems involving management fee checks withdrawn
from Ruby client accounts. George Franz did not disclose this information to Ruby
clients.
24.

For example, in approximately July or August 2009, George Franz learned
that Ruby was receiving management fee checks in the mail, drawn on client accounts,
that Ruby had never requested. George Franz learned that some Ruby clients appeared
to have been billed twice for management fees for the same quarter, when Ruby had
only asked for fees once.
25.

In approximately October 2009, George Franz learned that on several
occasions, there were management fee checks that had not yet been received by Ruby
but had somehow already been cashed according to the mutual fund company. George
Franz also learned that Andrew Franz had falsely claimed that the mutual fund
company had told him the checks had not yet been cashed. George Franz did not
disclose this information to Ruby clients.
26.

6

On numerous occasions in 2010, George Franz learned of other
irregularities regarding the management fee billing process and checks drawn on Ruby
client accounts.
27.

For example, in August 2010, George Franz learned that a total of
$4,732.97 in unauthorized management fee checks had been recently withdrawn from
four Ruby client accounts. George Franz also learned that these fee checks had
subsequently gone missing. In September 2010, George Franz learned that three of these
unauthorized checks had been deposited into Andrew Franz’s bank accounts.
28.

In October 2010, George Franz wrote checks from Ruby’s checking
account to these four clients’ accounts to reimburse the clients for the $4,732.97 in total
unauthorized fees. On the same day, Andrew Franz wrote a check to Ruby for
$4,732.97. George Franz was aware of this check. Had George Franz not reimbursed
these Ruby client accounts, these clients would have been more likely to discover that
funds had been stolen. George Franz did not disclose this information to Ruby clients.
29.

In January 2011, SEC examination staff conducted an examination of
Ruby’s offices and operations regarding Andrew Franz’s May 2010 forgery of four
client signatures on fee requests for the clients’ accounts (for fees legitimately owed to
Ruby). During this examination, Andrew Franz was present in Ruby’s offices and
George Franz was at his home in Florida. As part of this examination, George Franz
participated in SEC interviews via telephone.
30.

During the January 2011 examination, SEC examination staff asked
George Franz if he was aware of any potential violations of the securities laws other
than Andrew Franz’s forgery of the four client signatures in May 2010. George Franz
lied, claiming that he was not aware of any other potential violations. In reality, George
Franz was aware of numerous other indications of fraud by Andrew Franz, including
but not limited to those instances noted in paragraphs 14 through 29 above.
31.

From approximately January 2011 through May 2011, George Franz
became aware of numerous additional instances of management fee checks withdrawn
from Ruby client accounts going missing, and numerous additional instances of
Andrew Franz lying about missing management fee checks. George Franz did not
disclose this information to Ruby clients.
32.

From approximately January 2011 through March 2011, the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) made attempts to schedule an “On the
Record Interview” (“OTR”) of Andrew Franz in connection with irregularities FINRA
had discovered as part of their oversight of Andrew Franz’s associated broker-dealer.
33.

7

FINRA scheduled an OTR for Andrew Franz for March 4, 2011, but he did not appear.
As a result, Andrew Franz’s broker-dealer promptly terminated him. After George
Franz learned this, he failed to disclose it to clients or remove Andrew Franz as the
listed broker on Ruby’s client accounts until many months later.
Andrew Franz finally appeared for a FINRA OTR on April 7, 2011 and
admitted to numerous instances of fraud and theft from Ruby clients. On May 2, 2011,
Andrew Franz signed an Acceptance, Waiver, and Consent (“AWC”) with FINRA, in
which he acknowledged some of his misconduct and consented to being barred from
association with any FINRA broker-dealer. This AWC was accepted by FINRA on May
24, 2011.
34.

On April 29, 2011, George Franz informed Andrew Franz that he was
terminated from Ruby as of May 31, 2011, after which he would not be allowed entry
into Ruby’s offices. Andrew Franz continued to come in to the office and conduct Ruby
business until approximately July 2011, without consequence.
35.

Between April 29, 2011 and May 31, 2011, Andrew Franz misappropriated
another $15,000 from two Ruby clients. In June and July 2011, Andrew Franz
misappropriated another nearly $60,000 from one Ruby client.
36.

Respondents took no steps to prevent further thefts by Andrew Franz.
At all relevant times, George Franz was the Chief Compliance Officer of
Ruby. However, George Franz and Ruby failed to adopt and implement written policies
and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violations of the Advisers Act.
37.

George Franz and Ruby failed to adopt written policies and procedures
reasonably designed to prevent violations, even after learning that Andrew Franz had,
among other things, stolen Ruby client funds. During the time that Andrew Franz
worked at Ruby, the firm had no procedures reasonably designed to prevent violations
of the Advisers Act in connection with the withdrawal of advisory client funds.
Moreover, there were no compliance reviews of associated persons of Ruby or of Ruby’s
compliance procedures until January 2012.
38.

Respondents owed a fiduciary duty to all Ruby clients to act in their best
interest. Despite George Franz’s knowledge of Andrew Franz’s thefts, including but not
limited to the instances described above, he did not disclose these issues to Ruby clients
or take any meaningful steps to protect client assets from further thefts until at least
approximately May 2011.
39.

8

Until at least approximately May 2011, Respondents did not: (A) remove
Andrew Franz and deny him access to Ruby’s offices; (B) remove Andrew Franz’s
access to client accounts; (C) remove Andrew Franz as broker of record on client
accounts; (D) inform securities custodians for client accounts to not accept instruction
from Andrew Franz on behalf of client accounts; or (E) adopt and implement written
policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violations of the Advisers Act
specific to Andrew Franz’s means of committing fraud.
40.

After Andrew Franz was terminated from his broker dealer and barred
from association with any FINRA broker-dealer, George Franz – to ensure that Ruby
was paid its management fees – caused Andrew Franz’s signature stamp to be used on
management fee requests to securities custodians.
41.

George Franz failed to inform Ruby clients that
Andrew Franz had stolen from their accounts.
On numerous occasions, George Franz became aware that Andrew Franz
had caused fraudulent withdrawals out of numerous client accounts and
misappropriated the stolen funds. Rather than disclose to clients that Andrew Franz
had stolen from their securities accounts, George Franz instead concealed the thefts by
secretly replenishing the victim clients’ accounts. For example, from October 2010
through April 2012, George Franz wrote 7 checks totaling approximately $28,000 into
the accounts of 22 different Ruby clients.
42.

George Franz lied to Ruby clients about Andrew Franz’s thefts
and Ruby’s repayments of those stolen funds.
From approximately May 2011 through approximately July 2013, George
Franz affirmatively misrepresented to numerous Ruby clients that Andrew Franz had
not taken any funds from Ruby clients. He knew that was false.
43.

George Franz told certain victims that the withdrawals from their
accounts were due to mistake, but he knew they had been taken intentionally by
Andrew Franz. For example, Andrew Franz issued quarterly management fee requests
eleven times during 2010 for the account of one Ruby client (“Client A”), diverting
$13,552 in fraudulent fee payments into his personal bank account. George Franz
learned in March 2011 that these funds were taken fraudulently.
44.

In approximately late March 2011, George Franz falsely told Client A that
Andrew Franz had mistakenly caused the $13,552 to be withdrawn from her account,
and that the client’s account was being reimbursed. George Franz knew that Andrew
45.

9

Franz had intentionally caused the withdrawals. On March 30, 2011, George Franz
mailed a check for $13,552 from Ruby’s bank account to the securities custodian for
Client A’s account, instructing that the funds be deposited into the client’s account. That
same day, Andrew Franz obtained a cashier’s check from his bank payable to George
Franz for $13,552, reimbursing him for the funds repaid to Client A’s account.
From at least 2007 through at least July 2013, George Franz also made
numerous other material misrepresentations and omissions to Ruby clients regarding,
among other things, Andrew Franz’s fraud, George Franz’s knowledge of that fraud,
and the actions George Franz took after learning of that fraud.
46.

During the SEC’s August 2011 examination, George Franz lied to
SEC examination staff about what he knew and when he knew it.
During the first week of August 2011, SEC examination staff conducted an
examination of Ruby in connection with the misconduct uncovered by FINRA and its
action against Andrew Franz, including Andrew Franz’s thefts from Client A and other
Ruby clients in 2010 and early 2011. During this examination, the SEC interviewed
George Franz.
47.

George Franz told SEC examination staff that he first learned of any
potential misconduct by Andrew Franz (other than thefts from the Marie Franz Trust
and the four forged client signatures in May 2010) in early 2011. George Franz also told
SEC examination staff that once he learned of this misconduct, he immediately fired
Andrew Franz from Ruby. These were lies.
48.

During the August 2011 examination, the SEC examination staff
interviewed George Franz regarding instances of fraud by Andrew Franz that were
known to the SEC staff at the time. The SEC examination staff asked George Franz if he
was aware of any other potential violations of the securities laws. George Franz said he
was not. This was not true; he was aware of numerous other indications of fraud by
Andrew Franz, including but not limited to the instances noted in paragraphs 14
through 46 above.
49.

After the SEC’s August 2011 examination and during the early stages
of the SEC’s subsequent investigation, George Franz destroyed evidence
of Andrew Franz’s thefts by shredding numerous Ruby Corporation records.
In mid-August 2011, George Franz and his attorney met with SEC
enforcement and examination staff to discuss the SEC’s investigation, which at that time
had only involved instances of fraud by Andrew Franz in 2010 and 2011. During this
50.

10

meeting, the SEC staff told George Franz that he had a fiduciary responsibility to Ruby
clients and an obligation to investigate Andrew Franz’s thefts to determine the full
extent of his fraud. The SEC staff told George Franz that – at a minimum – he should
investigate the prior five years of transactions, such as via a forensic accounting, to
identify any additional thefts by Andrew Franz. The SEC staff also told George Franz
that the SEC would continue to investigate Andrew Franz’s fraud, including potential
fraud prior to 2010.
At all relevant times, Ruby was obligated under Section 204(a) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and Rule 204-2 thereunder to maintain and preserve
all books and records relating to Ruby’s operations, including revenue, for a total of five
years after the end of the year to which the record relates. As of November 2011, Ruby
was obligated to maintain and preserve all such books and records for the time frame
January 1, 2006 through November 2011.
51.

In November 2011, George Franz knowingly caused numerous Ruby
documents to be shredded. Such records contained important evidence of Andrew
Franz’s thefts before 2010.
52.

George Franz was aware that Ruby’s records for the time period prior to
2010 contained evidence of additional fraud by Andrew Franz, as well as evidence of
George Franz’s knowledge of Andrew Franz’s fraud prior to 2010. On various occasions
in 2008 and 2009, Ruby’s former office manager informed George Franz of these
instances of potential fraud by Andrew Franz as she became aware of them, and
showed George Franz documents reflecting such fraud.
53.

George Franz commissioned a sham “audit” that he
used to mislead numerous Ruby clients.
From September 2011 through August 2012, Respondents engaged an
accounting firm to perform an agreed-upon procedures engagement regarding
management fees charged by Ruby ("engagement"), supposedly in an effort to identify
all instances of misappropriation by Andrew Franz. This engagement was
commissioned in response to the SEC’s discussions with George Franz in mid-August
2011, as described in paragraph 50 above.
54.

This engagement was not an audit, as explicitly stated in the final report.
Rather, this engagement simply consisted of specified procedures, and included no
attestation by the accounting firm as to whether Ruby clients were defrauded or
overbilled.
55.

11

George Franz knew that these procedures were unlikely to uncover the
types of transactions by which Andrew Franz typically misappropriated funds from
Ruby clients. For example, the engagement only covered the time period of January 1,
2010 through June 30, 2011. Moreover, George Franz substantially misled the
accounting firm and withheld information material to their analysis to avoid detection
of the extent of Andrew Franz’s thefts. For example, George Franz provided the
accounting firm with a fraudulently altered check and lied to the accounting firm about
the check’s purpose. As a result, the vast majority of Andrew Franz's fraud was not
identified in the engagement. George Franz thus knew that the engagement was a
sham.
56.

Despite knowledge of the above facts and the sham nature of the exercise,
George Franz told numerous Ruby clients that "an audit" had been performed of all
Ruby client accounts. George Franz misled numerous Ruby clients, causing them to
believe that if they had not been identified as a victim of in the "audit," they could rest
assured that they had not been stolen from. George Franz even falsely told clients who
he knew were victims of Andrew’s fraud that they had not been victims.
57.

During the Division’s investigation, Respondents
provided fabricated documents to the Division.
During a September 11, 2012 investigative testimony, George Franz
testified that he had, either verbally or in writing, informed all known victims of
Andrew Franz’s fraud that they had been victimized.
58.

In November 2012, in response to SEC subpoenas, Respondents produced
to the SEC letters from George Franz to four Ruby clients who had funds stolen by
Andrew Franz and whose accounts were later reimbursed by Ruby. These four letters
stated that Andrew Franz had stolen the clients’ funds and that the amounts were being
repaid by Ruby. Three of these letters referenced specific conversations between George
Franz and the client regarding Andrew Franz’s misconduct.
59.

None of these four clients ever received these letters, and the
conversations referenced in three of the letters never took place.
60.

In addition to these four letters, Respondents produced to the SEC a letter
to another client (“Client B”) that the client never received. In an April 14, 2011 letter,
Client B complained to George Franz that in March 2010 her account had been
transferred out of an existing variable annuity without her consent, causing an
approximately $6,000 early surrender charge to the account. In her complaint letter,
Client B told George Franz that throughout 2010, Andrew Franz had repeatedly lied to
61.

12

her about the surrender charge, falsely claiming it was a mistake that would be repaid.
In her complaint letter to George Franz, Client B threatened to report the
matter to FINRA and the SEC if George Franz did not reimburse her for the surrender
charge. In a response letter on April 29, 2011, George Franz claimed that in March 2010
he had previously informed Client B of the surrender charge, that he had thereafter sent
Client B a letter disclosing the charge, and that the client had agreed to the account
transfer despite being aware of the surrender charge. These were lies.
62.

In reality, Andrew Franz had forged Client B’s signature on the account
transfer form. Client B never received the March 2010 disclosure letter, nor did she
participate in any March 2010 meeting. George Franz simply fabricated a story in which
Client B – with full knowledge of the surrender charge – had consented to the account
transfer. He then fabricated a letter to support that story. George Franz took these steps
to protect Andrew Franz and Ruby from a potential FINRA or SEC investigation as a
result of Client B’s complaint.
63.

Client B’s April 14, 2011 complaint letter, George Franz’s April 29, 2011
response letter, and the fabricated March 2010 letter were produced to the SEC
pursuant to subpoena as part of Client B’s client file maintained at Ruby.
64.

These five fabricated letters were not the only times that George Franz
“papered the file” with fabricated letters to clients in order to defend against claims that
he lied or withheld material facts. In 2004 and 2005, George Franz told three potential
clients that Ruby only received a fee if the clients’ securities account managed by Ruby
gained in value, and that Ruby’s fee would be a percentage of that gain. This was false;
Ruby was paid 2% of the clients’ portfolio value each year regardless of whether the
account gained or lost value. A year later, after the clients complained about these
undisclosed fees, George Franz claimed that he previously disclosed these fees, and
specifically cited two letters he supposedly wrote to the clients. The clients never
received these letters.
65.

George Franz lied under oath during the investigation.
During investigative testimony before the SEC enforcement staff, George
Franz lied under oath on numerous occasions.
66.

For example, during investigative testimony on September 11, 2012,
George Franz testified that he had disclosed to all known victims of Andrew Franz’s
fraud the fact that they had been victims of misappropriation from their accounts. This
testimony was false.
67.

13

Further, during investigative testimony on March 6, 2013, George Franz
testified that he had mailed the letters referenced in paragraphs 59 through 63 above,
and that he had made the disclosures to clients referenced in those letters. This
testimony was false.
68.

Respondents filed a false SEC Form ADV Part II.
On or around April 16, 2012, Ruby filed a Form ADV Part II (dated
November 30, 2011), disclosing that Andrew Franz was a former associated person of
Ruby, but was removed from the firm because he had consented to a FINRA bar based
on allegations of misappropriation, and stating, in Item 9:
69.

[Andrew] Franz: (1) misappropriated funds belonging to Ruby
Corporation and its clients in violation of NASD Conduct Rule 2110 and (2)
forged an investor’s signature and misappropriated his funds in violation
of FINRA Rule 2010. This conduct was unknown to George B. Franz III and
Ruby Corporation.
70.

This Form ADV Part II was filed with the Commission and provided to

Ruby clients.
The claim that “this conduct was unknown to George B. Franz III and
Ruby Corporation” was false at the time this Form ADV Part II was filed. At the time
this form was filed, George Franz knew that this claim was false.
71.

D.

VIOLATIONS

1.
As a result of the conduct described above, Andrew Franz violated Section
10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent
conduct in connection with any purchase or sale of security.
2.
As a result of the conduct described above, Andrew Franz violated
Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act, which prohibit fraudulent conduct by an
investment adviser.
3.
As a result of the conduct described above, George Franz and Ruby
Corporation failed reasonably to supervise Andrew Franz.
4.
As a result of the conduct described above, Ruby Corporation willfully
violated Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.

14

5.
As a result of the conduct described above, George Franz and Ruby
Corporation willfully violated Sections 206(1) and (2) of the Advisers Act.
6.
As a result of the conduct described above, George Franz willfully aided
and abetted and caused Andrew Franz’s and Ruby Corporation’s violations of Section
10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder and Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of
the Advisers Act.
7.
As a result of the conduct described above, Ruby Corporation willfully
violated Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-7 thereunder, which among
other things require that investment advisers registered with the Commission adopt
and implement policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violations of
the Advisers Act.
8.
As a result of the conduct described above, George Franz willfully aided
and abetted and caused Ruby Corporation’s violation of Section 206(4) of the Advisers
Act and Rule 206(4)-7 thereunder.
9.
As a result of the conduct described above, Ruby Corporation willfully
violated Section 204(a) of the Advisers Act and Rule 204-2 thereunder, which require
that investment advisers registered with the Commission maintain and preserve certain
books and records.
10.
As a result of the conduct described above, George Franz willfully aided
and abetted and caused Ruby Corporation’s violation of Section 204(a) of the Advisers
Act and Rule 204-2 thereunder.
11.
As a result of the conduct described above, Ruby Corporation willfully
violated Section 207 of the Advisers Act, which makes it “unlawful for any person
willfully to make any untrue statement of a material fact in any registration application
or report filed with the Commission . . . or willfully to omit to state in any such
application or report any material fact which is required to be stated therein.”
12.
As a result of the conduct described above, George Franz willfully
violated, and aided and abetted and caused Ruby Corporation’s violation of, Section
207 of the Advisers Act.
III.
In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement, the Commission
deems it necessary and appropriate in the public interest that public administrative and
cease-and-desist proceedings be instituted to determine:

15

A.
Whether the allegations set forth in Section II hereof are true and, in
connection therewith, to afford Respondents George Franz and Ruby Corporation an
opportunity to establish any defenses to such allegations;
B.
What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against
Respondents George Franz and Ruby Corporation pursuant to Sections 203(e) and (f) of
the Advisers Act including, but not limited to, disgorgement and civil penalties pursuant
to Section 203 of the Advisers Act;
C.
What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against
Respondents George Franz and Ruby Corporation pursuant to Section 9(b) of the
Investment Company Act including, but not limited to, disgorgement and civil penalties
pursuant to Section 9 of the Investment Company Act; and
D.
Whether, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act and Section 203(k) of
the Advisers Act, Respondents George Franz and Ruby Corporation should be ordered to
cease and desist from committing or causing violations of and any future violations of
Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, Sections 206(1) and 206(2)
of the Advisers Act, Section 204(a) of the Advisers Act and Rule 204-2 thereunder, Section
206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-7 thereunder, and Section 207 of the Advisers
Act.
IV.
IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the
questions set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened not earlier than 30 days and not
later than 60 days from service of this Order at a time and place to be fixed, and before an
Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 of
the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.110.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents George Franz and Ruby Corporation
shall each file an Answer to the allegations contained in this Order within twenty (20) days
after service of this Order, as provided by Rule 220 of the Commission's Rules of Practice,
17 C.F.R. § 201.220.
If any Respondent fails to file the directed answer, or fails to appear at a hearing
after being duly notified, the Respondent may be deemed in default and the proceedings
may be determined against that Respondent upon consideration of this Order, the
allegations of which may be deemed to be true as provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f)
and 310 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. §§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f)
and 201.310.

16

This Order shall be served forthwith upon Respondents personally or by certified
mail.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an
initial decision no later than 300 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to
Rule 360(a)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.360.
In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission
engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any
factually related proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of
this matter, except as witness or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice. Since this
proceeding is not “rule making” within the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative
Procedure Act, it is not deemed subject to the provisions of Section 553 delaying the
effective date of any final Commission action.
By the Commission.

Elizabeth M. Murphy
Secretary

17

