UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 79160 / October 26, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17644
In the Matter of

ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

MICHAEL EPPY,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission") deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") against Michael Eppy
(“Eppy” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the "Offer") which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these
proceedings and the findings contained in Sections III.2. and III.3., below, which are admitted,
Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial
Sanctions ("Order"), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that
1.
Eppy, age 67, is a resident of Delray Beach, Florida. Eppy offered and sold units in
three oil-and-gas offerings from Team Resources, Inc. and affiliated entities. Eppy was not

registered with the Commission as a broker or associated with a registered broker-dealer during the
time of these activities.
2.
On October 14, 2016, a judgment was entered by consent against Eppy,
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 5(a), 5(c), and 17(a)(2)-(3) of the
Securities Act of 1933 ("Securities Act"), and Section 15(a) of the Exchange Act, in the civil action
entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Team Resources, et al., Civil Action Number
3:15-CV-01045-N, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas.
3.
The Commission’s complaint alleged that, in connection with the offer and sale of
limited partnership interests, Eppy misrepresented or failed to disclose material information about
the offerings, including the receipt of undisclosed sales commissions. The complaint also alleged
that Eppy unlawfully sold unregistered securities, and that he sold these securities without being
properly registered as a broker.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Eppy’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act,
that Respondent Eppy be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment
adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized
statistical rating organization; and
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent Eppy be, and hereby is
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder,
consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for
purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the
purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws and
regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a

2

customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

