UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77663 / April 20, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4373 / April 20, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17219
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
AND SECTION 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
JOANN JACKSON,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Section 203(f) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against JoAnn Jackson (“Respondent” or
“Jackson”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s
jurisdiction over her and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the findings contained in
Section III.2 below, and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings
Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exhange Act of 1934 and Section 203(f) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”),
as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Jackson is 64 years old. From July 2004 until October 2013, Jackson was an
investment advisory representative and registered representative with Moloney Securities Co., Inc.
(“Moloney”), a dually-registered broker-dealer and investment adviser registered with the
Commission. From October 1997 until July 2004, Jackson was a registered representative with
A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc., a broker-dealer and investment adviser formerly registered with the
Commission. From April 1994 until November 1997, Jackson was a registered representative with
D.A. Davidson & Co., a broker-dealer and investment adviser registered with the Commission.
Thus, Jackson was associated with broker-dealers and investment advisers from April 1994 until
October 2013. Jackson is currently incarcerated at the Federal Correctional Institution-Dublin in
Dublin, California, BOP Register No. 16309-023.
2.
In November 2014, Jackson pleaded guilty to two counts of wire fraud in violation
of 18 U.S.C. § 1343. Subsequently, on February 3, 2015, the Court sentenced Jackson to thirty
months in prison, three years of supervised release, and two hundred hours of community service.
The Court further ordered Jackson to pay restitution of $811,084.56.
3.
Jackson’s criminal conviction relates to funds that she stole from a client that she
serviced as an investment advisory representative through Moloney Securities Co., Inc.
(“Moloney”), a dually-registered broker-dealer and investment adviser based in Manchester,
Missouri. Between July 2004 and October 2013, Jackson served as an investment advisory
representative and registered representative for Moloney in Coeur D’Alene, Idaho.
4.
The indictment alleged that Jackson stole a client’s money multiple ways. Initially,
Jackson opened a Moloney account in the name of Jackson’s daughter and without her daughter’s
knowledge. She transferred money from her client’s account into the Moloney account in her
daughter’s name. Jackson then deposited the stolen money in her daughter’s Moloney account into
her daughter’s bank account.1 Her daughter then withdrew the stolen cash for Jackson or paid
Jackson’s bills with these funds. As time passed, Jackson forged checks against her client’s
Moloney account and deposited those checks directly into her daughter’s bank account. These
funds were wired, and Jackson either withdrew cash or asked her daughter to pay her bills with the
stolen money. Jackson continued this scheme through September 2013.
5.
On October 2, 2013, Moloney terminated Jackson. On October 31, 2013, FINRA
imposed a permanent bar against Jackson prohibiting her from associating with any FINRA
member in any capacity based on her misconduct. On August 19, 2014, the United States Attorney
for the District of Idaho charged Jackson with twenty-one counts of wire fraud in violation of 18
U.S.C. § 1343.
1

Jackson told her daughter that the funds were Jackson’s paychecks from Moloney, and that Jackson could not use
her own bank account due to banking problems.

2

6.
On November 5, 2014, Jackson entered into a plea agreement that, among other
items, reflected that: (i) Jackson pled guilty to counts 1 and 21 of the indictment; (ii) Jackson
agreed that the facts described above would be proven beyond a reasonable doubt if the case
proceeded to trial; and (iii) Jackson agreed to pay, at a minimum, $811,084.32 in restitution. The
remaining counts were dismissed following the guilty plea. On February 3, 2015, the Court entered
a judgment convicting Jackson for two counts of wire fraud.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Jackson’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act,
and Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act, that Respondent Jackson be, and hereby is barred from
association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal
advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating organization; and
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent Jackson be, and hereby is
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder,
consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for
purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the
purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

