UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 76897 / January 14, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4314 / January 14, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17051
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-ANDDESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTIONS 203(e), 203(f), AND 203(k) OF
THE INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF
1940 AND SECTION 15(b)(6) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASEAND-DESIST ORDER

In the Matter of
EVERHART FINANCIAL
GROUP, INC., RICHARD
SCOTT EVERHART, AND
MATTHEW JAMES ROMEO,
Respondents.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted pursuant to Sections 203(e), 203(f) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940
(“Advisers Act”) and Section 15(b)(6) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”)
against Everhart Financial Group, Inc. (“EFG”), Richard Scott Everhart (“Everhart”), and Matthew
James Romeo (“Romeo”) (collectively “Respondents”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondents consent
to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to
Sections 203(e), 203(f), and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and Section 15(b)(6) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a
Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds1 that:
SUMMARY
1.
Since 2010, EFG, a registered investment adviser, has principally invested its
clients in the mutual funds offered by a single family of mutual funds (the “Mutual Fund
Complex”). This Mutual Fund Complex offers two share classes to investment advisers and the
only meaningful difference between them is that one share class charges “12b-1 fees” and the other
does not.2 Despite significantly higher fees, some adviser representatives at EFG nearly always
invested non-retirement individual advisory accounts in shares that charged a 12b-1 fee, which was
paid to EFG’s principal owners, who also were licensed registered representatives of a registered
broker-dealer. Receipt of 12b-1 fees not only created a conflict of interest that was not adequately
disclosed to EFG’s clients, but favoring 12b-1 funds over others was inconsistent with EFG’s duty
to seek best execution for its clients. In addition, EFG had several compliance failures, including
the lack of annual compliance reviews for several years, and also issued insufficient disclosures
regarding the receipt of 12b-1 fees. As a result, EFG violated Sections 204, 206(2), 206(4), and
207 of the Advisers Act and Rules 204-3(a), 204-3(b)(1) and (2), and 206(4)-7 thereunder.
Likewise, EFG’s president and majority owner – Everhart – violated or caused violations of
Sections 204, 206(2), and 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rules 204-3(a), 204-3(b)(1) and (2), and
206(4)-7 thereunder and EFG’s Chief Operating Officer and minority owner – Romeo – violated or
caused violations of Sections 204, 206(2), and 207 of the Advisers Act and Rules 204-3(a) and
204-3(b)(1) and (2) thereunder.

1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.
2

Many mutual funds offer different share classes with varying fee structures, including, “Investor”
shares and so-called “Institutional” shares. Investor shares are available to the general public, but
usually carry what are known as “12b-1” fees to cover fund distribution and shareholder service
expenses pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 and Rule 12b-l
thereunder. These fees are deducted from mutual fund assets on an ongoing basis and are paid to
the fund’s distributor. In turn, these fees are passed on to the broker-dealers and registered
representatives whose customers own the shares. Institutional shares, by contrast, are available
only to certain investors, primarily depending on the amount invested and those who invest
through registered investment advisers. These shares have no up-front or deferred sales charges
and often do not have a 12b-1 fee. As a result, an investor who purchases Institutional shares of a
mutual fund will pay lower fees over time – and keep more of his investment returns – than an
investor who owns Investor shares of the same fund.
2

RESPONDENTS
2.
EFG is an Ohio corporation with its principal place of business in Dublin, Ohio.
EFG registered with the Commission as an investment adviser in December 1995. As of
December 31, 2014, EFG reported $250 million of assets under management.
3.
Richard Scott Everhart, age 48, is a resident of Dublin Ohio. He is the founder and
majority owner of EFG and currently serves as its President. Everhart was EFG’s Chief
Compliance Officer from July 1995 through November 2014. He is also an investment adviser
representative (“IAR”) of EFG since starting the company. Everhart holds Series 6, 7, 26, 63, and
65 licenses and since January 2009, he has been a registered representative of a broker-dealer
(“Broker”) that is registered with the Commission.
4.
Matthew James Romeo, age 37, is a resident of Dublin, Ohio. He joined EFG in
1999 and is a minority owner. Romeo has been an IAR at EFG throughout the relevant time
period. Romeo officially became Chief Operating Officer in 2012 and Chief Compliance Officer
in November 2014. He holds Series 7, 24, 53, 63, and 65 licenses and has been a registered
representative of the Broker since 2004.
FACTS
Background on EFG
5.
Everhart founded EFG in 1995. EFG provides investment advice and financial
planning to non-high net worth individuals and, with only a few exceptions, recommends mutual
funds to non-retirement advisory clients. EFG is compensated for providing advisory services with
a fee based on a percentage of a client’s assets under management. EFG’s IARs, who are also
licensed representatives of a registered broker-dealer, also receive 12b-1 fees from EFG’s clients’
investments in mutual funds.
6.
Initially, Everhart was responsible for finding and developing client relationships,
preparing marketing materials, compliance, and selecting and implementing investment strategies.
As EFG’s business grew, Everhart hired new employees and investment adviser representatives.
This included Romeo, who joined as an intern in 1999.
7.
Over time, Romeo took on other jobs, such as administrative support and account
manager, and in 2005, he took on the duties – but not the title – of Chief Operating Officer. In
recognition of Romeo’s increased responsibilities, he purchased an interest in EFG in 2007 and is
currently the second largest shareholder in the company. Everhart formally named Romeo as
Chief Operating Officer in 2012.
8.
Everhart was also EFG’s Chief Compliance Officer from 1995 until November
2014 when he promoted Romeo to that position. Although Everhart was EFG’s Chief Compliance
3

Officer, during the relevant period Romeo oversaw, among other things, the annual update to
EFG’s Form ADV and Form ADV Part 2A (“Brochure”) and was responsible for distributing these
updates to clients. Romeo, with Everhart’s approval, also signed EFG’s Forms ADV since 2010.
Even though Romeo has been responsible for EFG’s day-to-day management since 2005, Everhart
is the ultimate authority at EFG and oversees its entire operations.
9.
In addition to their other duties, Everhart and Romeo are IARs of EFG and advise
clients about investments and receive compensation. Everhart and Romeo not only develop
investment strategies for their clients, but also identify and recommend specific investments. For
non-retirement individual advisory clients, Everhart and Romeo nearly always bought shares
offered by the Mutual Fund Complex that carry a 12b-1 fee.
10.
All of EFG’s IARs are registered representatives of the Broker, which acts as an
introducing broker for EFG’s clients. The Broker also provides various back-office and
administrative services for EFG that include preparing client account statements and mailing
mutual fund prospectuses.
EFG’s Compliance Program
11.
EFG and Everhart did not perform required annual compliance reviews from 2008
through 2011 and in 2013 and 2014. Although the Broker did periodic inspections, these reviews
were limited to EFG’s contractual obligations with the Broker and focused on EFG’s employees
who are registered representatives of the Broker. These examinations did not cover EFG’s overall
advisory business and therefore were inadequate under the Advisers Act compliance rule, which
requires that registered investment advisers such as EFG “[r]eview, no less frequently than
annually, the adequacy of the policies and procedures [reasonably designed to prevent violations of
the Advisers Act and its rules] and the effectiveness of their implementation.”
Best Execution and EFG’s Disclosures Regarding 12b-1 Fees
12.
All new EFG advisory clients sign an Investment Advisory Agreement (“IAA”).
There were two versions of the IAA from 2010 through January 2014. Both versions disclosed the
client’s advisory fee. However, the client agreement used from 2010 through mid-2013 did not
disclose 12b-1 fees. The agreement also did not disclose the conflicts of interest that are created by
EFG’s IARs’ receipt of 12b-1 fees. There is also no mention about Everhart’s and Romeo’s
practice of nearly always investing non-retirement advisory clients in share classes that generate
12b-1 fees ultimately paid to Everhart and Romeo.
13.
EFG updated its client agreement in mid-2013. The revised version informs clients
that “[EFG] and investment adviser representatives of EFG receive 12b-1 fees from certain mutual
funds that are purchased by clients … . [EFG] will conduct due diligence regarding its fiduciary
duties to clients before recommending any mutual fund that will pay 12b-1 fees.” EFG, however,
never did any due diligence when selecting a mutual fund share class, as it nearly always selected
4

shares that charged 12b-1 fees. EFG’s “due diligence” was limited to picking a mutual fund and
not a particular share class of that fund.
14.
EFG revised its client agreement in January 2014 as a result of an SEC
examination. For the first time, EFG notified clients that “[f]unds that include 12b-1 fees represent
a conflict of interest.” The revised agreement also stated that EFG’s representatives “may receive
12b-1 fees from certain mutual funds… . Receiving 12(b)-1 fees represents an incentive for a
registered representative to recommend funds with 12(b)-1 fees or with higher 12(b)-1 fees than
funds with no fees or lower fees.”
15.
In addition to the IAA, new and existing clients receive a portfolio illustration
which outlines a proposed investment strategy. This document summarizes a portfolio of
investments and lists the fees and expenses for each mutual fund share class, including 12b-1 fees if
charged by that fund class. The report does not compare different mutual fund share classes or list
the fees and expenses associated with other share classes of the same fund. The portfolio
illustration also includes Morningstar reports for selected mutual funds. These single-page reports
describe, among other things, the mutual fund’s investment strategy, performance, holdings, and
fees. The portfolio illustration summarizes only those share classes EFG recommends – EFG does
not provide clients with information for other share classes of the same mutual fund in which EFG
clients will invest. Everhart, and Romeo did not inform their non-retirement individual advisory
clients that they nearly always purchase mutual fund shares that charge a 12b-1 fee and do not
discuss cheaper alternative share classes.
16.
Section 206 of the Advisers Act imposes on investment advisers a fiduciary duty to
act for the benefit of their clients. That duty includes, among other things, an obligation to seek
best execution for client transactions – i.e., “to seek the most favorable terms reasonably available
under the circumstances.” In the Matter of Fidelity Management Research Company, Investment
Advisers Act Rel. No. 2713 (March 5, 2008) (citing Interpretive Release Concerning the Scope of
Section 28(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Exchange Act Rel. No. 23170, (Apr. 23,
1986). The Commission has stated in settled enforcement actions that an investment adviser failed
to seek best execution when it caused a client to purchase a more expensive share class when a less
expensive class was available.3 Although EFG’s non-retirement advisory clients were eligible to
purchase institutional shares from the Mutual Fund Complex, Everhart and Romeo nearly always
recommended a mutual fund share class that charged a 12b-1 fee. By not choosing mutual fund
share classes with a view to minimizing transactional and ongoing costs, and by failing to disclose
that best execution would not be sought for mutual funds with multiple share classes available,
Everhart and Romeo failed to seek best execution on behalf of their individual advisory clients.

3

See In the Matter of Manarin Investment Counsel, Ltd., Investment Advisers Act Rel. No. 3686
(October 2, 2013) (settled matter) and In the Matter of Pekin Singer Strauss Asset Management
Inc., Investment Advisers Act Rel. No. 4126 (June 23, 2015) (settled matter).
5

17.
New clients did not get EFG’s Brochure. EFG also did not provide existing clients
with an annual update to its Brochure or a summary statement of material changes. Instead, EFG
sent a notice to clients informing them that a new Brochure was available and offered to send it to
them.
18.
EFG prepared and filed a Brochure in March 2011.4 Items 5.E and 14.A of the
Brochure require advisers to disclose fees they receive from the sale of mutual funds and
compensation paid by third-parties for providing investment advisory services to clients, as well
as the resulting conflicts and how the advisers address them. EFG’s March 2011 Brochure
informs clients that EFG and its IARs “may receive 12b-1 distribution fees” from mutual funds in
connection with a client’s investments and that these payments are in addition to EFG’s advisory
fees. However, there is no discussion about any conflicts of interest or Everhart’s and Romeo’s
practice to invest certain clients in share classes that charge 12b-1 fees when corresponding share
classes without such fees were available. EFG updated its Brochure in March 2012 and included
the same language about 12b-1 fees as the prior version. This Brochure, however, was never filed
on the Investment Adviser Registry Depository (“IARD”) system.5
19.
According to EFG, its Brochure was next updated on November 26, 2013 and from
March 2012 until November 2013, EFG relied on its March 2012 filing. The IARD system,
however, reflects that a Brochure signed by Romeo was filed on June 30, 2013. The June 2013
Brochure does not mention 12b-1 fees at all and omits language regarding 12b-1 payments that
was in prior versions.
20.
EFG’s November 2013 Brochure does not discuss 12b-1 fees. There is no
disclosure about 12b-1 fees paid to EFG’s IARs and the attendant conflicts of interest created by
these payments. In addition, there is still no disclosure about Everhart’s and Romeo’s practice of
investing in share classes that charge 12b-1 fees when there are corresponding share classes
available that do not.
21.
EFG corrected its 12b-1 disclosures in March 2014 when it updated its Brochure in
response to an SEC examination. For the first time, EFG disclosed its conflict of interest in its
IARs’ receipt of 12b-1 fees. The Brochure states: EFG’s representatives “may recommend load or
no-load mutual funds that charge [clients] 12(b)-1 fee” and they receive a portion of these 12(b)-1
fees.” Clients are now told that these payments “could represent an incentive for [EFG] or your
[IAR] to recommend mutual funds with 12(b)-1 fees or higher 12(b)-1 fees over mutual funds with
no 12(b)-1 fees or lower 12(b)-1 fees and therefore creates a conflict of interest.”

4

Form ADV was amended in 2010, requiring most Commission-registered advisers to file and
start using client disclosure brochures that met the requirements of new Part 2A in 2011.
5

IARD is an electronic filing system that facilitates investment adviser registration and the
public disclosure of information regarding investment adviser firms.
6

VIOLATIONS OF LAW
22.
Section 206(2) of the Advisers Act makes it unlawful for an adviser to use means or
instrumentality of interstate commerce to engage in any transaction, practice, or course of business
that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any client or prospective client. Scienter is not required to
establish a violation of Section 206(2), but rather may rest on a finding of negligence. SEC v.
Steadman, 967 F.2d 636, 643 n.5 (D.C. Cir. 1992) (citing SEC v. Capital Gains Research Bureau,
Inc., 375 U.S. 180, 194-95 (1963)). As a result of the conduct described above, EFG, Everhart,
and Romeo willfully6 violated Section 206(2).
23.
Section 207 of the Advisers Act, among other things, makes it unlawful for a
person “willfully to omit to state … material fact[s]” in registration applications and reports filed
with the Commission. As a result of the conduct described above, EFG and Romeo willfully
violated Section 207 of the Advisers Act.
24.
Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act makes it “unlawful for any investment adviser
… to engage in any act, practice, or course of business which is fraudulent, deceptive, or
manipulative.” Rule 206(4)-7 under the Advisers Act requires registered investment advisers to,
among other things, “[r]eview, no less frequently than annually, the adequacy” of written “policies
and procedures, reasonably designed to prevent violation” of the Advisers Act and its rules. As a
result of the conduct described above, EFG willfully violated Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act
and Rule 206(4)-7 thereunder and Everhart caused these violations by EFG.
25.
Section 204 of the Advisers Act requires investment advisers to “make and
disseminate” reports as the Commission, by rule, may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the
public interest or for the protection of investors. Rule 204-3 of the Advisers Act requires registered
investment advisers to “deliver a brochure and one or more brochure supplements to each client or
prospective client that contains all information required by Part 2 of Form ADV.” Advisers Act
Rule 204-3(a). For new clients, advisers must deliver its current brochure “before or at the time”
the adviser enters into an advisory agreement with the client. Advisers Act Rule 204-3(b)(1).
And, as part of the annual amendment process, Rule 204-3(b)(2) requires that if there are material
changes to the Brochure, the adviser must deliver either a “current brochure” or a summary of
these changes and “an offer” to provide clients a copy of the Brochure. As a result of the conduct
described above, EFG willfully violated Section 204 of the Advisers Act and Rules 204-3(a) and
204-3(b)(1) and (2) thereunder and Everhart and Romeo caused these violations by EFG.

6

A willful violation of the securities laws means merely “‘that the person charged with the duty
knows what he is doing.’” Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000) (quoting
Hughes v. SEC, 174 F.2d 969, 977 (D.C. Cir. 1949)). There is no requirement that the actor
“‘also be aware that he is violating one of the Rules or Acts.’” Id. (quoting Gearhart & Otis, Inc.
v. SEC, 348 F.2d 798, 803 (D.C. Cir. 1965)).
7

RESPONDENTS’ REMEDIAL EFFORTS
26.
In determining to accept the Offers, the Commission considered remedial acts
promptly undertaken by Respondents and cooperation afforded the Commission staff.
UNDERTAKINGS
Respondent EFG has undertaken to:
27.
Independent Compliance Consultant. With respect to the retention of an
independent compliance consultant, EFG has agreed to the following undertakings:
a.
EFG shall retain, within ninety (90) days of the entry of this Order, the
services of an independent compliance consultant (the “Independent Consultant”) that is
not unacceptable to the Commission staff. The Independent Consultant’s compensation
and expenses shall be borne exclusively by EFG.
b.
EFG shall provide to the Commission staff, within ninety (90) days of the
entry of this Order, a copy of the engagement letter detailing the Independent Consultant’s
responsibilities, which shall include comprehensive compliance reviews as described below
in this Order. EFG shall require that the Independent Consultant conduct by the end of the
fourth quarter of 2016 and again at the end of the fourth quarter of 2017 a comprehensive
review of EFG’s supervisory, compliance, and other policies and procedures reasonably
designed to prevent violations of the federal securities laws by EFG and its employees.
c.
EFG shall require that, within forty-five (45) days from the end of the
applicable quarterly period, the Independent Consultant shall submit a written and detailed
report of its findings to EFG and to the Commission staff (the “Report”). EFG shall require
that each Report include a description of the review performed, the names of the
individuals who performed the review, the conclusions reached, the Independent
Consultant’s recommendations for changes in or improvements to EFG’s policies and
procedures and/or disclosures to clients, and a procedure for implementing the
recommended changes in or improvements to EFG’s policies and procedures and/or
disclosures.
d.
EFG shall adopt all recommendations contained in each Report within
sixty (60) days of the applicable Report; provided, however, that within forty-five (45)
days after the date of the applicable Report, EFG shall in writing advise the Independent
Consultant and the Commission staff of any recommendations that EFG considers to be
unduly burdensome, impractical, or inappropriate. With respect to any recommendation
that EFG considers unduly burdensome, impractical or inappropriate, EFG need not
adopt that recommendation at that time but shall propose in writing an alternative policy,
procedure or system designed to achieve the same objective or purpose.
8

e.
As to any recommendation with respect to EFG’s policies and procedures
on which EFG and the Independent Consultant do not agree, EFG and the Independent
Consultant shall attempt in good faith to reach an agreement within sixty (60) days after
the date of the applicable Report. Within fifteen (15) days after the conclusion of the
discussion and evaluation by EFG and the Independent Consultant, EFG shall require that
the Independent Consultant inform EFG and the Commission staff in writing of the
Independent Consultant’s final determination concerning any recommendation that EFG
considers to be unduly burdensome, impractical, or inappropriate. EFG shall abide by the
determinations of the Independent Consultant and, within sixty (60) days after final
agreement between EFG and the Independent Consultant or final determination by the
Independent Consultant, whichever occurs first, EFG shall adopt and implement all of the
recommendations that the Independent Consultant deems appropriate.
f.
Within ninety (90) days of EFG’s adoption of all of the recommendations
in a Report that the Independent Consultant deems appropriate, as determined pursuant to
the procedures set forth herein, EFG shall certify in writing to the Independent Consultant
and the Commission staff that EFG has adopted and implemented all of the Independent
Consultant’s recommendations in the applicable Report. Unless otherwise directed by
the Commission staff, all Reports, certifications, and other documents required to be
provided to the Commission staff shall be sent to Paul Montoya, Assistant Regional
Director, Asset Management Unit, Chicago Regional Office, Securities and Exchange
Commission, 175 W. Jackson Blvd., Suite 900, Chicago, IL, 60604, or such other address
as the Commission staff may provide.
g.
EFG shall cooperate fully with the Independent Consultant and shall
provide the Independent Consultant with access to such of its files, books, records, and
personnel as are reasonably requested by the Independent Consultant for review.
h.

To ensure the independence of the Independent Consultant, EFG:
(1)

Shall not have the authority to terminate the Independent
Consultant or substitute another independent compliance
consultant for the initial Independent Consultant, without the prior
written approval of the Commission staff; and

(2)

Shall compensate the Independent Consultant and persons engaged
to assist the Independent Consultant for services rendered pursuant
to this Order at their reasonable and customary rates.

i.
EFG shall require the Independent Consultant to enter into an agreement
that provides that for the period of engagement and for a period of two (2) years from
completion of the engagement, the Independent Consultant shall not enter into any
employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with
EFG, or any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents
acting in their capacity as such. The agreement will also provide that the Independent
9

Consultant will require that any firm with which the Independent Consultant is affiliated
or of which the Independent Consultant is a member, and any person engaged to assist
the Independent Consultant in the performance of the Independent Consultant's duties
under this Order shall not, without prior written consent of the Commission staff, enter
into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional
relationship with EFG, or any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers,
employees, or agents acting in their capacity as such for the period of the engagement and
for a period of two (2) years after the engagement.
28.
Recordkeeping. EFG shall preserve for a period of not less than six (6) years from
the end of the fiscal year last used, the first two (2) years in an easily accessible place, any record
of EFG’s compliance with the undertakings set forth in this Order.
29.
Separation of Chief Compliance Officer From Other Officer Positions. Within
thirty (30) days of the entry of this Order, EFG shall designate someone other than Everhart and
Romeo to be its Chief Compliance Officer. Given the particular conduct described herein, for a
period of five (5) years from the entry of this Order, the person EFG designates as Chief
Compliance Officer shall not simultaneously hold any other officer position at EFG while serving
as Chief Compliance Officer.
30.
Compliance Training. Within one year of entry of this Order, EFG shall require its
Chief Compliance Officer to complete thirty (30) hours of compliance training relating to the
Advisers Act.
31.
Notice to Advisory Clients. Within thirty (30) days of the entry of this Order, EFG
shall provide a copy of the Order to each of EFG’s existing advisory clients as of the entry of this
Order via mail, e-mail, or such other method as may be acceptable to the Commission staff,
together with a cover letter in a form not unacceptable to the Commission staff. For a period of
one (1) year from the entry of this Order, EFG shall provide a copy of the Order to all of its
prospective clients.
32.
Deadlines. For good cause shown, the Commission staff may extend any of the
procedural dates relating to the undertakings. Deadlines for procedural dates shall be counted in
calendar days, except that if the last day falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the next business
day shall be considered to be the last day.
33.
Certifications of Compliance by Respondents. EFG shall certify, in writing,
compliance with its undertakings set forth above. The certification shall identify the undertakings,
provide written evidence of compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits
sufficient to demonstrate compliance. The Commission staff may make reasonable requests for
further evidence of compliance, and EFG agrees to provide such evidence. The certification and
supporting material shall be submitted to Paul Montoya, Assistant Regional Director, Asset
Management Unit, Chicago Regional Office, Securities and Exchange Commission, 175 W.
10

Jackson Blvd., Suite 900, Chicago, IL, 60604, or such other address as the Commission staff may
provide, with a copy to the Office of Chief Counsel of the Enforcement Division, 100 F Street, NE
Washington, DC 20549, no later than sixty (60) days from the date of the completion of the
undertakings.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondents’ Offers.
Accordingly, pursuant to Sections 203(e), 203(f) and 203(k) of the Advisers Act and
Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Respondent EFG cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and
any future violations of Sections 204, 206(2), 206(4), and 207 of the Advisers Act and Rules 2043(a), 204-3(b)(1) and (2), and 206(4)-7 thereunder.
B.
Respondent Everhart cease and desist from committing or causing any violations
and any future violations of Sections 204, 206(2), and 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rules 2043(a), 204-3(b)(1) and (2), and 206(4)-7 thereunder.
C.
Respondent Romeo cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and
any future violations of Sections 204, 206(2), 207 of the Advisers Act and Rules 204-3(a) and 2043(b)(1) and (2) thereunder.
D.

Respondents EFG, Everhart, and Romeo are censured.

E.
Respondent EFG shall comply with the undertakings enumerated in Section III,
paragraphs 27 to 33 above.
F.
Respondents EFG, Everhart, and Romeo on a joint and several basis shall, within
fourteen (14) days of the entry of this Order, pay total disgorgement of $201,985.66 and
prejudgment interest of $23,422.66 to the Commission for transfer to the general fund of the
United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If timely payment is not
made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600. Payment must be
made in one of the following ways:
(1)

Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the Commission,
which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon
request;

(2)

Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or
11

(3)

Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
EFG, Everhart, and Romeo as Respondents in these proceedings, and the file number of these
proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Paul Montoya,
Assistant Regional Director, Asset Management Unit, Chicago Regional Office, Securities and
Exchange Commission, 175 W. Jackson Blvd., Suite 900, Chicago, IL, 60604.
G.
Respondent EFG shall, within fourteen (14) days of the entry of this Order, pay a
civil penalty in the total amount of $80,000 to the Commission to the Commission for transfer to
the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3) . If
timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717. Payment
must be made in one of the following ways:
(1)

Respondent EFG may transmit payment electronically to the Commission,
which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon
request;

(2)

Respondent EFG may make direct payment from a bank account via
Pay.gov through the SEC website at
http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondent EFG may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or
United States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and
Exchange Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying EFG
as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the
cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Paul Montoya, Assistant Regional Director,
12

Asset Management Unit, Chicago Regional Office, Securities and Exchange Commission, 175 W.
Jackson Blvd., Suite 900, Chicago, IL, 60604.
H.
Respondent Everhart shall, within fourteen (14) days of the entry of this Order, pay
a civil penalty in the total amount of $40,000 to the Commission to the Commission for transfer to
the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If
timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717. Payment
must be made in one of the following ways:
(1)

Respondent Everhart may transmit payment electronically to the
Commission, which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire
instructions upon request;

(2)

Respondent Everhart may make direct payment from a bank account via
Pay.gov through the SEC website at
http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondent Everhart may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or
United States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and
Exchange Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying Everhart as
a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover
letter and check or money order must be sent to Paul Montoya, Assistant Regional Director, Asset
Management Unit, Chicago Regional Office, Securities and Exchange Commission, 175 W.
Jackson Blvd., Suite 900, Chicago, IL, 60604.
I.
Respondent Romeo shall, within fourteen (14) days of the entry of this Order, pay a
civil penalty in the total amount of $20,000 to the Commission. If timely payment is not made,
additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717. Payment must be made in one of the
following ways:
(1)

Respondent Romeo may transmit payment electronically to the
Commission, which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire
instructions upon request;

13

(2)

Respondent Romeo may make direct payment from a bank account via
Pay.gov through the SEC website at
http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondent Romeo may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or
United States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and
Exchange Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
Romeo as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of
the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Paul Montoya, Assistant Regional
Director, Asset Management Unit, Chicago Regional Office, Securities and Exchange
Commission, 175 W. Jackson Blvd., Suite 900, Chicago, IL, 60604.
J.
Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondents agree that in any Related Investor
Action, they shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall they benefit by, offset or reduction of
any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil
penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a
Penalty Offset, Respondents agree that they shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order
granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount of
the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall not be
deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil
penalty imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action”
means a private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more
investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the
Commission in this proceeding.
V.
It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by
Respondents Everhart and Romeo, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest,
civil penalty or other amounts due by Respondents Everhart and Romeo under this Order or any
other judgment, order, consent order, decree or settlement agreement entered in connection with

14

this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by Respondents Everhart and Romeo of the federal
securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19)
of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19).
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

15

