UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78551 / August 11, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4480 / August 11, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17378
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
AND SECTION 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
RICKY T. MEYER,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Section 203(f) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Ricky T. Meyer (“Meyer” or
“Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of
these proceedings and the findings contained in Section III.2., below, which are admitted,
Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 203(f) of the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth
below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that
1.
During the period November 2008 to December 2010, Meyer was associated with a
registered broker-dealer and investment adviser. Meyer, age 45, is a resident of Ankeny, Iowa.
2.
On July 2, 2012, the District Court, Denver County, Colorado, in Fred J. Joseph v.
Ricky T. Meyer, Case No. 2012CV4087, entered an order against Meyers barring him from,
among other things, associating with any broker-dealer or investment adviser doing business in
Colorado.
3.
The state court bar was entered by consent to resolve securities and investment
adviser fraud claims brought against Meyers by the Colorado Division of Securities. According
to the Complaint filed by the Colorado Division of Securities, the underlying conduct giving rise
to the claims occurred between November 2008 and December 2010.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Meyer’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act
and Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act that Respondent Meyer be, and hereby is barred from
association with any investment adviser, broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer, municipal
advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating organization; and
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act that Respondent Meyer be, and hereby
is barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter,
finder, consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer
for purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce
the purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served

2

as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

