UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78322 / July 14, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4451 / July 14, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17341
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
AND SECTION 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
GAVIN L. HAMELS,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Section 203(f) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Gavin L. Hamels (“Hamels” or
“Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s
jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the findings contained in
Sections III.3 and III.4. below, and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative
Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 203(f)
of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions
(“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that
1.
From January 2010 until September 2010, Hamels was employed as a Client
Advisor by “Bank 1” -- a dually registered broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiary of a
larger financial institution. During the relevant period of his association with Bank 1, Hamels
was engaged in the business of managing client assets, including advising his clients as to the
prudence of investing in certain registered and unregistered securities, and received
compensation for those services. Hamels was registered as a broker-dealer representative with
Westmoore Securities, Inc. from August 2007 until January 2009, and C.E. Unterberg, Towbin,
LLC from October 2003 until February 2007. Hamels, 39 years old, is a resident of Encinitas,
CA.
2.
The Commission filed a complaint against Hamels in the civil action entitled SEC
v. Jason Galanis, et al., No. 15 Civ. 7547 (VSB) in the United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York, alleging violations of Sections 9(a)(1) and 10(b) of the Exchange
Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act. The
Commission’s complaint alleged that, in connection with his position as a Client Advisor,
Hamels, along with others, engaged in a fraudulent scheme to engage in manipulative trading
with respect to the publicly traded common stock of Gerova Financial Group, Ltd. (“Gerova”), a
company with securities that traded on the American Stock Exchange and the New York Stock
Exchange. The complaint alleges that Hamels agreed to purchase approximately $5 million
worth of Gerova stock in client accounts in exchange for accepting undisclosed consideration
from Jason Galanis and his associates, and that on several dates between July and September
2010, Hamels placed buy orders for Gerova stock on behalf of client accounts with knowledge
that an individual was simultaneously placing sell orders for substantially the same amount of
Gerova stock at substantially the same prices. Hamels further understood that he was asked to
purchase Gerova stock because Jason Galanis and, his brother, Jared Galanis wanted to create the
appearance of liquidity in the market for Gerova’s stock. The complaint further alleges that
Hamels failed to disclose to his clients that the purchases were made pursuant to an agreement he
had reached with Jason Galanis for the benefit of clients who suffered a loss (or at least a loss of
liquidity) as a result of investments in certain funds operated under the brand name
“Westmoore.”
3.
On March 22, 2016, Hamels pled guilty to a criminal indictment in United States
v. Jason Galanis, et al., 15 Cr. 643 (PKC) (S.D.N.Y.) that charged him with one count of
conspiracy to commit securities fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 371; one count of securities
fraud, in violation of 15 U.S.C. § 78j (b) & 78ff, 17 C.F.R. § 240.10b-5, and 18 U.S.C. § 2; and
one count of investment adviser fraud, in violation of 15 U.S.C. §§ 80b-6 and 80b-17, and 18
U.S.C. § 2. His sentencing is scheduled for January 6, 2017.
4.

In connection with that plea, Respondent admitted that:

2

(a)
In 2010, Hamels was working as an investment adviser at Bank 1. After an
investment owned by some of his Bank 1 clients in a fund became illiquid, he agreed with
others to engage in a transaction in order to distract clients from possible losses in the
illiquid fund and prevent client departures;
(b)
Hamels agreed to purchase Gerova securities on behalf of his clients in
exchange for other stock that was provided to clients and that might have long-term value
and might offer liquidity for his clients; and
(c)
Hamels then purchased Gerova securities on behalf of his clients in a
coordinated fashion with others. He understood that by coordinating these trades with
others, it had the effect of creating an artificial and misleading perception of market activity
in Gerova, and in particular, that it boosted the appearance of trading volume and liquidity
in Gerova. Also, Hamels understood that he was misleading his clients by not telling them
about his agreement with others to buy Gerova securities and his coordinated trading.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Hamels’ Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act,
and Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act, that Respondent Hamels be, and hereby is barred from
association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal
advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating organization; and
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent Hamels be, and hereby is
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder,
consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for
purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the
purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.

3

For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

4

