UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78764 / September 2, 2016
Admin. Proc. File No. 3-16430
In the Matter of the Application of
MARK E. LACCETTI, CPA
For Review of Disciplinary Action Taken by
the
PCAOB

OPINION OF THE COMMISSION
PUBLIC COMPANY ACCOUNTING OVERSIGHT BOARD -- REVIEW OF
DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS
Violation of Board Rules
Improper Professional Conduct
Associated person of registered public accounting firm engaged in improper professional
conduct in the audit of the financial statements of a public company. Held, findings of
violations and sanction imposed are sustained.
APPEARANCES:
Lawrence J. Zweifach, Darcy C. Harris, Michael J. Scanlon, and Jacob T. Spencer, of
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP, for Mark E. Laccetti, CPA.
J. Gordon Seymour, Luis de la Torre, and Jodie J. Young for the PCAOB.
Appeal filed: March 12, 2015
Last brief received: June 30, 2015

2
I. Introduction
Mark E. Laccetti (“Laccetti”), who was associated with Ernst & Young LLP, a registered
public accounting firm (“Ernst & Young”), appeals a disciplinary action taken by the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB” or the “Board”) finding that he violated
PCAOB Rules 31001 and 3200T2 by failing to adhere to professional auditing standards during
the audit of a company’s financial statements. The Board found Laccetti’s conduct during the
audit was reckless and barred him from associating with a registered public accounting firm,
with leave to petition to associate after two years, and imposed an $85,000 civil penalty.
Laccetti solely raises constitutional and procedural challenges to the Board’s
proceedings. He does not challenge the Board’s findings of liability or imposition of sanctions.
After an independent and de novo review of the record, we reject Laccetti’s arguments, and
sustain the Board’s finding of violations and imposition of sanctions.
II. Facts
This matter stems from the audit of Taro Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.’s (“Taro”)
consolidated financial statements for the year ending December 31, 2004. As detailed in the
Board’s final decision, the principal auditor of those financial statements, Kost Forer Gabbay &
Kasierer (“Ernst & Young Israel”),3 assigned part of that audit—the audit of the issuer’s United

1

PCAOB Rule 3100 requires registered public accounting firms and their associated
persons to comply with the Board’s “auditing and related professional practice standards” in
connection with the preparation or issuance of any audit report for an issuer, as defined in
Sarbanes-Oxley. Rule 1001(a)(viii) defines the term “auditing and related professional practice
standards” to mean “the auditing standards, related attestation standards, quality control
standards, ethical standards, and independence standards (including any rules implementing Title
II of Sarbanes-Oxley), and any other professional standards, that are established or adopted by
the Board under Section 103 of the [Sarbanes-Oxley] Act.”
2

In April 2003, the Board adopted certain preexisting standards as its interim standards.
PCAOB Rule 3200T states that, “[i]n connection with the preparation or issuance of any audit
report, a registered public accounting firm, and its associated persons, shall comply with
generally accepted auditing standards, as described in the AICPA Auditing Standards Board’s
Statement of Auditing Standards No. 95, as in existence on April 16, 2003 (Codification of
Statements on Auditing Standards, AU § 150 (AICPA 2002)), to the extent not superseded or
amended by the Board.” The interim standards are cited as “AU §__.”
3

Ernst & Young Israel is a public accounting firm organized under the laws of Israel and
registered with PCAOB. Both Ernst & Young and Ernst & Young Israel are members of Ernst &
Young Global Ltd., which is not registered with PCAOB.

3
States subsidiary, Taro Pharmaceutical U.S.A., Inc. (“Taro USA”)—to Ernst & Young.4
Accordingly, Ernst & Young was responsible for performing a “full scope . . . GAAS audit on
the trial balances” of Taro USA. Taro USA’s trial balances were incorporated into Taro’s
consolidated financial statements, which were included in its Annual Report filed with the
Commission on Form 20-F.5
Laccetti was Ernst & Young’s audit engagement partner with ultimate responsibility for
Ernst and Young’s report on Taro USA audit.6 Laccetti testified at the hearing that, when
planning the Taro USA audit, he was aware that the company’s “accounts receivable allowances
was an area of high risk and focus.” He acknowledged knowing, for instance, that Taro USA did
not have formal processes for estimating sales allowances. The engagement instructions (which
Laccetti signed) also identified “revenue recognition” as an area of “primary importance” and
directed that “[s]pecial attention should be given to allowance for rebates, discounts and returns,”
including chargebacks. Laccetti and the audit team also documented that “improper revenue
recognition” and “manipulating significant accounting estimates” were “Identified Fraud Risks.”
During the audit team’s performance of audit procedures regarding Taro USA, Laccetti
was aware of concerns encountered during the audit relating to Taro USA’s sales allowance
estimates, chargebacks, and year-end reserves. The Board concluded that Laccetti failed to
exercise due professional care related to those areas by, among other things, failing to obtaining
sufficient competent evidence to support how those issues were resolved, if at all, and failing to
address those issues in the memorandum he provided to the parent company’s principal auditor.
According to the Board, for instance, Laccetti found that Taro USA’s process for preparing and
reviewing accounts receivable allowance estimates was deficient, but Laccetti failed to address
this deficiency. The Board found that Laccetti also failed to perform certain planned analyses of
chargebacks and improperly raised the planned threshold for tolerable error for sales allowances
without explanation.
The audit team requested from Taro USA, but never received, an analysis of the
company’s accounts receivable reserves. While waiting for this information, Laccetti directed

4

See Final Decision, Mark E. Laccetti, CPA, No. 105-2009-007, slip op. at 2 (PCAOB
Jan. 26, 2015).
5

Certain foreign private issuers may file a Form 20-F as a registration statement or annual
report under specified provisions of the Exchange Act. See 17 C.F.R. § 249.220f. This matter
concerns only Laccetti’s failures to comply with auditing standards. Our opinion, therefore,
makes no determination about whether Taro USA’s or Taro Pharmaceutical’s financial
statements complied with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).
6

Taro Pharmaceutical was a multinational, Israel-based company that issued audited
annual financial statements incorporating its subsidiaries’ (including Taro USA’s) financial
information.

4
the senior manager of the audit team to “[d]raft the [Summary Review Memorandum] right now
with the a [sic] conclusion that [accounts receivable] reserves ok.” Despite never receiving the
analysis from management, Laccetti approved and released the final audit memorandum to the
principal auditor, Ernst & Young Israel, with the conclusion that the accounts receivable reserves
appeared reasonable. The finalized audit memorandum, approved by Laccetti, reported that Taro
USA’s “net accounts receivable is fairly stated,” that the audit team had “completed all planned
work steps related to revenue,” and that “the scope of our audit was adequate and that the
financial data of [Taro USA] for the year ended December 31, 2004 are presented fairly, in all
material respects, in conformity with [U.S. GAAP].” Relying on Ernst & Young’s audit
memorandum, Taro’s principal auditor, Ernst & Young Israel, expressed an unqualified opinion
in its audit report on Taro’s 2004 consolidated financial statements. The principal auditor’s audit
report was included in the Taro’s Annual Report, filed with the Commission on Form 20-F.
Taro USA subsequently determined that it did not adequately reserve for chargebacks
from wholesalers. Specifically, Taro USA adjusted its chargebacks reserve as of December 31,
2004, from $2.37 million to $95.4 million, on a cumulative basis back to December 31, 2002,
with a cumulative balance sheet effect as of year-end 2004 of $93 million and an income
statement effect for 2004 of $9.8 million. As a result, in 2007, Taro filed restated financial
statements for 2004, relating primarily to the correction errors concerning Taro USA’s
chargeback estimates.
III. Procedural History
The Division of Enforcement and Investigations of the PCAOB (the “Division”)
investigated the audits and financial statement reviews of Taro for more than a year. As part of
that investigation, Laccetti gave investigative testimony to the Division, during which he was
represented by outside counsel. Following the investigation, the Board issued an Order
Instituting Disciplinary Proceedings (“OIP”) on October 20, 2009, alleging that Laccetti had
violated PCAOB rules and auditing standards in connection with the Taro USA audit.
After a nine-day hearing,7 the PCAOB hearing officer issued an initial decision finding
that Laccetti had violated PCAOB Auditing Standards (“AU”) § 150, Generally Accepted
Auditing Standards, § 230, Due Professional Care, § 326, Evidential Matter, and § 342, Auditing

7

Laccetti’s hearing was initially scheduled to begin on June 28, 2010. That morning, the
Supreme Court issued its decision in Free Enterprise Fund v. PCAOB, 561 U.S. 477 (2010), in
which it struck down as unconstitutional Sarbanes-Oxley’s provisions restricting the removal of
Board members by the Commission. Laccetti’s counsel successfully sought a one-day
postponement of the hearing and, the following day, argued to the Board that the Court’s Free
Enterprise decision required dismissal. The hearing officer rejected that argument, as well as
Laccetti’s request, in the alternative, for expedited interlocutory appeal.

5
Accounting Estimates,8 in his examination of Taro USA’s chargebacks reserve by failing to
exercise due professional care and skepticism, failing to obtain and properly evaluate sufficient
competent evidential matter, and failing to properly audit a significant accounting estimate.9 The
PCAOB hearing officer determined that Laccetti had committed these violations recklessly and
ordered that he be suspended from association with any registered public accounting firm for six
months and that he pay a $25,000 civil penalty. The PCAOB hearing officer also concluded that
Laccetti had violated AU § 316.64, Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit, by
failing to perform a retrospective review of Taro USA’s accounts receivable allowances, but
found that this violation was only negligent and therefore did not impose additional sanctions.10
The PCAOB hearing officer further found that the Division had failed to prove violations of AU
§ 329, Substantive Analytic Procedures, § 333, Management Representations, § 560, Subsequent
Events, and § 561, Discovery of Facts Existing at the Date of the Auditor's Report.11
Both Laccetti and the Division petitioned the Board for review of portions of the PCAOB
hearing officer’s initial decision on May 20, 2011. Laccetti challenged the hearing officer’s

8

See, e.g., AU § 150.02, Auditing Standards (“Due professional care is to be exercised in
the performance of the audit and the preparation of the report.”), § 230.01, Due Professional
Care in the Performance of Work (same); § 326.01, Evidential Matter (“Sufficient competent
evidential matter is to be obtained through inspection, observation, inquiries, and confirmations
to afford a reasonable basis for an opinion regarding the financial statements under audit.”);
§ 342.04, Auditing Accounting Estimates (“[W]hen planning and performing procedures to
evaluate accounting estimates, the auditor should consider, with an attitude of professional
skepticism, both the subjective and objective factors.”).
9

See Initial Decision, Mark E. Laccetti, CPA, No. 105-2009-007 (PCAOB Apr. 20, 2011).

10

See AU § 316.64, Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit (“The auditor
also should perform a retrospective review of significant accounting estimates reflected in the
financial statements of the prior year to determine whether management judgments and
assumptions relating to the estimates indicate a possible bias on the part of management.”).
11

See, e.g., AU § 329.01, Substantive Analytic Procedures (“establish[ing] requirements
regarding performing analytical procedures as a risk assessment procedure in identifying and
assessing risks of material misstatement”); § 333.04, Management Representations (stating that
“[i]f a representation made by management is contradicted by other audit evidence, the auditor
should investigate the circumstances and consider the reliability of the representation made”);
§ 560.01, Subsequent Events (stating that that “events or transactions sometimes occur
subsequent to the balance-sheet date, but prior to the issuance of the financial statements, that
have a material effect on the financial statements and therefore require adjustment or disclosure
in the statements”); § 561.01, Discovery of Facts Existing at the Date of the Auditor’s Report
(establishing procedures that “should be followed by the auditor who, subsequent to the date of
the report upon audited financial statements, becomes aware that facts may have existed at that
date which might have affected the report had he or she then been aware of such facts”).

6
admission of the Division’s expert witness’s report and testimony, contended that PCAOB
auditing standards did not require him to specifically assess chargebacks, and challenged the
sanctions imposed by the hearing officer as excessive. He also challenged the hearing officer’s
rejection of his affirmative defenses, including that the Division violated his right to counsel at
his investigative testimony and that the Board’s structure during the initiation and investigation
stage of the proceedings violated the constitutional doctrine of separation of powers. The
Division challenged the hearing officer’s dismissal of the alleged violations of AU §§ 329, 333,
560, and 561. It also asked the Board to bar Laccetti from associating with registered public
accounting firms, with leave to petition to associate after three years, and to order a $100,000
civil penalty.
The Board conducted a de novo review of the challenged findings and issued a Final
Decision on January 26, 2015, in which it affirmed the hearing officer’s findings of violations of
PCAOB auditing standards, found additional violations of AU §§ 329, 333, and imposed
sanctions. In conducting its review, the Board did not rely on any evidence for which admission
or exclusion at the hearing had been challenged on review, and it did not rely on Laccetti’s
investigative testimony.
The Board concluded that Laccetti’s violations of AU §§ 150, 230, 326, 329, 333,
and 342 were committed recklessly. The Board also found that his violation of AU § 316.64 for
failing to conduct a retrospective review of accounts receivable allowances was part of a
reckless, or at least repeatedly negligent, course of conduct. Based on the seriousness of the
violations, the harm to investors, Laccetti’s failure to recognize the wrongful nature of his
conduct, and the absence of assurances that he would not violate the PCAOB’s rules in the
future, the Board barred Laccetti from associating with a registered public accounting firm, with
leave to petition the Board to associate after two years, and ordered him to pay an $85,000 civil
penalty.
IV. Analysis of Underlying Violations and Sanctions
Laccetti does not challenge the Board’s underlying findings of violations or imposition of
sanctions. Laccetti instead makes several procedural and constitutional arguments, which he
contends require complete dismissal of the proceedings. We analyze those arguments below, but
we first address our obligation under Sarbanes-Oxley § 107(c)(2) to sustain the Board’s decision
only if we find that the record shows that Laccetti engaged in the alleged violative conduct, that
Laccetti’s conduct violated PCAOB rules, and that those rules are, and were applied in a manner,
consistent with the purposes of Sarbanes-Oxley.12

12

15 U.S.C. § 7217(c)(2) (stating that the provisions of Exchange Act §§ 19(d)(2) and
19(e)(1), 15 U.S.C. §§ 78s(d)(2) and (e)(1), “shall govern the review by the Commission of final
disciplinary sanctions imposed by the Board . . . as fully as if the Board were a self-regulatory
(continued…)

7
We conducted a de novo review of the record to determine whether a preponderance of
the record evidence supports the PCAOB’s findings.13 Based on this review, we find that the
record supports the PCAOB’s findings, as detailed in its decision, that Laccetti repeatedly failed
to adhere to the Board’s interim auditing standards and thus violated PCAOB Rules 3100 and
3200T for the reasons articulated in the Board’s decision.14 We further find that Rules 3100 and
3200T are, and were applied in a manner, consistent with the purposes of Sarbanes-Oxley. Both
rules obligate persons associated with registered public accounting firms to comply with
applicable auditing standards.15 The rules are thus consistent with Sarbanes-Oxley, which directs
the PCAOB to, among other things, establish auditing and other professional practice standards
“as may be necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.”16
For the same reasons, PCAOB’s application of the rules—i.e., finding that Laccetti failed to
adhere to applicable auditing standards during the Taro USA audit—is also consistent with those
purposes.
Sarbanes-Oxley § 107(c)(3) directs us to sustain the PCAOB’s sanctions unless we find,
having due regard for the public interest and the protection of investors, that the sanctions are
excessive or oppressive or are not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of Sarbanes-Oxley or

(…continued)

organization and the Commission were the appropriate regulatory agency for such organization
for purposes of those sections 19(d)(2) and 19(e)(1)”).
13

See, e.g., S.W. Hatfield, C.P.A., Exchange Act Release No. 69930, 2013 WL 3339647,
at *1 (July 3, 2013) (applying preponderance of evidence standard in PCAOB disciplinary
proceeding); accord Seaton v. SEC, 670 F.2d 309, 311 (D.C. Cir. 1982) (upholding
preponderance of evidence standard in NASD disciplinary proceeding).
14

We find that the record supports the extensive factual findings in the Board’s Final
Decision. We also agree with the Board’s legal analysis supporting its findings of violations and
sanctions. Given that Laccetti is not challenging any of those findings on appeal to the
Commission, we do not detail our de novo review of those factual and legal findings.
15

See supra notes 1–2; see also Order Approving Proposed Rules Relating to Compliance
with Auditing and Related Practice Standards and Advisory Groups, Exchange Act Release No.
48730, 2003 WL 22478774, at *1 (Oct. 31, 2003) (finding that “adoption of Rule 3100 would
mean that any registered public accounting firms or person associated with such a firm that fails
to adhere to applicable Standards could be the subject of a Board disciplinary proceeding”).
16

See, e.g., 15 U.S.C. § 7213(a)(1); Order Approving Proposed Rules, 2003 WL 22478774,
at *2 (finding that Rule 3100 was “consistent with the requirements of the [Sarbanes-Oxley] Act
and the securities laws and are necessary and appropriate in the public interest and for the
protection of investors”).

8
the securities laws.17 Applying that standard, and based on our de novo review of the record, we
find that, for the reasons stated in its decision, the Board’s imposition of a bar, with leave to
petition to associate after two years, and $85,000 civil penalty were not excessive, oppressive, or
otherwise inappropriate because, among other things, “Laccetti’s reckless conduct ill-served the
investor interests and public interest that an audit should serve, falling far short of the rigorous,
objective inquiry and analysis required by PCAOB standards.”18 We also find for the same
reasons no basis for concluding that the bar, with leave to petition to associate after two years,
and $85,000 civil penalty are not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of Sarbanes-Oxley and
the securities laws.
V.

Analysis of Constitutional and Procedural Challenges

Laccetti makes one procedural and two constitutional arguments, each of which he
contends requires dismissal of the proceedings. First, he argues that the Board’s Final Decision
must be dismissed because the Board’s structure during the Division’s investigation and
institution of proceedings violated the Constitution’s separation of powers. Second, he argues
that the Division violated his right to counsel by refusing to allow an accountant employed by
Ernst & Young to accompany his outside attorney during Laccetti’s investigative testimony.
Third, he argues that the Board lacked constitutional authority to impose sanctions because its
members had not taken oaths of office or received Presidential commissions. Based upon our
review, we conclude that none of these arguments has merit.
A.

The Board’s Final Decision Is Not Invalid On Separation-of-Powers Grounds

Although the Division’s investigative proceedings against Laccetti began when the Board
was subject to statutory removal provisions that were later held to be unconstitutional, the
Board’s Final Decision was not “tainted” by the separation of powers problems identified (and
corrected) in Free Enterprise Fund. The Board correctly concluded that the proceedings against
Laccetti should not be dismissed on separation-of-powers grounds. The Board was subject to
adequate executive oversight during Laccetti’s hearing and, more importantly, when the Board
conducted a de novo review, found violations, and imposed sanctions.

17

15 U.S.C. § 7217(c)(3) (stating that “the Commission may enhance, modify, cancel,
reduce, or require the remission of a sanction imposed by the Board upon a registered public
accounting firm or associated person thereof . . . if the Commission, having due regard for the
public interest and the protection of investors, finds . . . that the sanction—(A) is not necessary or
appropriate in furtherance of [the Sarbanes-Oxley] Act or the securities laws; or (B) is excessive,
oppressive, inadequate, or otherwise not appropriate to the finding or the basis on which the
sanction was imposed.”).
18

Laccetti, slip op. at 93.

9
1.

Free Enterprise Fund does not mandate dismissal or reversal.

Laccetti’s separation-of-powers argument rests on the Supreme Court’s June 28, 2010
decision in Free Enterprise Fund v. PCAOB.19 That case involved a challenge to the removal
provisions governing the PCAOB, under which the Commission could not remove Board
members except “for good cause shown,” and “in accordance with” certain procedures.20
Combined with the fact that Commissioners themselves can only be removed by the President
for “inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office,”21 the Court concluded that these
dual for-cause removal provisions shielded the Board from executive oversight in violation of
the Constitution’s separation of powers.22
The Court did not hold that the constitutional violation necessarily invalidated any prior
exercise of the Board’s authority. To the contrary, the Court rejected the petitioners’ contention
that the Board and “all power and authority exercised by it” violated the Constitution.23 And it
clarified that “the existence of the Board does not violate the separation of powers,” and that
restricting the Board members to a single level of insulation from removal “would have no effect
. . . on the validity of any officer’s continuance in office.”24 Instead, it concluded that the
removal provisions were severable from the remainder of the Act; once those provisions were
excised, the Board would be removable by the Commission at will and the separation-of-powers
violation would be cured.25 Accordingly, the Court immediately remedied the violation by
invalidating the Sarbanes-Oxley removal restrictions.26 Rather than ordering “broad injunctive
relief against the Board’s continued operations” or dismissal of the Board’s proceedings, the
Court remanded to the Court of Appeals to ensure that the appellants would no longer be subject
to the enforcement authority of a Board that was unconstitutionally protected from executive
oversight.27
Unlike the petitioners in Free Enterprise Fund, Laccetti does not (and cannot) contend
that he is currently subject to unconstitutional enforcement authority; the unconstitutional

19

561 U.S. 477 (2010).

20

Id. at 486.

21

Id.

22

Id. at 492.

23

Id. at 508.

24

Id.

25

Id. at 509.

26

Id. at 513–14.

27

Id.

10
removal restrictions were struck down before the start of the PCAOB hearing and issuance of the
Board’s Final Decision in Laccetti’s case. Instead, he contends that the entire proceeding must
be dismissed because the Board lacked the necessary executive oversight when it investigated
and initiated proceedings against him. Nothing in Free Enterprise Fund compels such a result.
And, as discussed below, dismissal is not warranted in light of the Board’s ratification of its prior
decisions.
2.

The Board ratified its decisions to investigate and institute proceedings
against Laccetti.

Even if we were to accept Laccetti’s argument that the Board’s pre-Free Enterprise Fund
exercises of authority were necessarily invalid—a conclusion not reached by the Court in Free
Enterprise Fund —that would not support the conclusion Laccetti urges: that the entirety of the
proceedings against him was “fundamental[ly] flaw[ed]” and must be dismissed. Irregularities—
even constitutional violations—that occur early in a proceeding and are remedied do not warrant
reversal or dismissal.28 “[A] remedy must ‘neutralize the taint’ of a constitutional violation
while at the same time not grant a windfall to the defendant or needlessly squander the
considerable resources” already invested in the proceeding.29
We conclude that the Final Decision, reached by a constitutionally accountable Board,
ratified the Board’s pre-Free Enterprise Fund decisions. Accordingly, even if Laccetti were
correct that the Board’s prior investigation and institution of proceedings were invalid, any
violation was rendered harmless by the Board’s subsequent review. Consequently, Laccetti is
not entitled to relief.
Laccetti’s hearing was conducted, and the decision he now challenges was reached by the
Board in 2015, after the constitutionally required oversight of the Board had been established by
Free Enterprise Fund. As soon as the removal provisions were severed by the Court in 2010, the
Board had the ability—unaffected by any lack of accountability to the Executive—to dismiss the
proceedings. It chose not to do so. Rather, the hearing officer rejected Laccetti’s motion to
dismiss based on Free Enterprise Fund and went on to conduct a hearing while subject to proper
oversight. The Board then—again, while subject to proper oversight—conducted de novo review
of the hearing officer’s findings (including the decision not to dismiss the proceeding on
separation-of-powers grounds) and issued the Final Decision imposing sanctions.

28

See, e.g., Doolin v. Office of Thrift Supervision, 139 F.3d 203 (D.C. Cir. 1998)
(administrative enforcement proceedings initiated by improperly appointed director of OTS did
not invalidate final order); Fed. Election Comm’n v. Legi-Tech, 75 F.3d 704 (D.C. Cir. 1996)
(civil enforcement action brought by unconstitutionally composed FEC did not warrant dismissal
of the action).
29

Lafler v. Cooper, 132 S. Ct. 1376, 1388–89 (2012) (internal citation omitted).

11
This process completely remedied any possible effect of the lack of executive oversight
that existed before Free Enterprise Fund. The D.C. Circuit’s decision in Doolin is instructive.30
There, the court held that a Notice of Charges filed by an invalidly appointed Director of the
Office of Thrift Supervision was remedied by his successor’s decision on the merits of the
charges.31 After the administrative enforcement action had proceeded under the improperly
appointed director for years—including discovery and a hearing before an ALJ—the new
director, “act[ing] in the normal course of agency adjudication,” issued a final order based on the
ALJ’s findings and recommendation.32 The final order, the court held, “was necessarily an
affirmation of the validity of the charges, and hence a ‘ratification,’ even though [the director]
did not formally invoke the term.”33

30

139 F.3d at 213–14.

31

Id.

32

Id. at 213.

33

Id. (footnotes omitted). Laccetti tries to distinguish Doolin on the basis that it involved a
statutory challenge—not a constitutional one—subject to the Administrative Procedure Act’s
harmless error review. But harmless error was not the basis for Doolin’s holding. Id. at 212
(noting in dicta that “harmless error analysis may mean that irregularities regarding the Notice
should also be disregarded,” but declining to decide the question because the parties had not
raised it). Instead, Doolin relied on Legi-Tech, 75 F.3d 704 (D.C. Cir. 1996) (which it noted was
“directly on point”), and cited Andrade v. Regnery, 824 F.2d 1253, 1257 (D.C. Cir. 1987), both
of which addressed constitutional violations. Id. at 213–14. Furthermore, although the alleged
violation in Doolin was statutory, the question was whether an Officer of the United States had
authority to act despite not having been appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate,
so the Appointments Clause was clearly implicated. Indeed, the D.C. Circuit has since
distinguished Doolin when addressing a constitutional violation without relying on—or even
mentioning—the fact that Doolin was a statutory challenge. Landry v. FDIC, 204 F.3d 1125,
1132 (D.C. Cir. 2000).

12
An agency’s affirmation of a decision preceded by a constitutional or statutory violation
has repeatedly been found sufficient to remedy any infirmity.34 In fact, ratification after even
less than de novo review can suffice.35
Laccetti asserts that the Board never “ratified” its earlier decision to institute proceedings
against him and attempts to distinguish Legi-Tech and Doolin on that basis. However, we find
his arguments to be without merit. Here, because the Board had the power to stop or modify the
proceedings at the time the constitutional problem was remedied, there was no need for it to
formally reconsider and ratify the OIP. Unlike the cases on which Laccetti relies—in which the
agency was unconstitutionally composed or its officials improperly appointed—there was no
need to reappoint or reconstitute the decision-making entity before it could make a new
decision.36 And under principles of agency law—which inform our analysis—ratification can be
implicit.37 Courts have frequently concluded that a final decision was, itself, an implicit
ratification of earlier action.38

34

See, e.g., Intercollegiate Broad. Sys., Inc., v. Copyright Royalty Bd. (“Intercollegiate
II”), 796 F.3d 111, 124 (D.C. Cir. 2015) (decision by improperly appointed Copyright Royalty
Judges was remedied by de novo review by properly appointed judges); Combat Veterans for
Cong. PAC v. FEC, 795 F.3d 151, 157–58 (D.C. Cir. 2015) (statutorily improper vote on reasonto-believe determination was remedied by vote imposing penalties); Andrade, 824 F.2d 1253
(planning of a reduction in force that occurred under an improperly appointed official was
remedied by the actual implementation of the RIF by a properly appointed official); FEC v. Club
for Growth, 432 F. Supp. 2d 87 (D.D.C. 2006) (failure to follow statutory procedure for filing
lawsuit was remedied by agency’s subsequent vote to ratify its prior decision to file suit).
35

See FEC v. Legi-Tech, 75 F.3d 704 (D.C. Cir. 1996). But see Ryder v. United States, 515
U.S. 177 (1995) (review by the Court of Military Appeals did not cure earlier violation because
the review was not de novo and did not “g[i]ve petitioner all the possibility for relief that review
by a properly constituted Coast Guard Court of Military Review would have given him.”).
36

See Andrade v. Lauer, 729 F.2d 1475, 1495 (D.C. Cir. 1984) (noting that the
Appointments Clause “would be a nullity if it could be assumed that these very officials would in
fact have been properly appointed and . . . confirmed by the Senate”).
37

See Restatement (Third) Of Agency § 4.01(2)(b) (2006) (a person can ratify a prior act by
“conduct that justifies a reasonable assumption that the person” assents to the act); see also
Doolin, 139 F.3d at 212–13 (citing principles of agency law although the situation was “not
easily characterized” as a principal-agent relationship).
38

See, e.g., United States v. Mechanik, 475 U.S. 66, 70 (1986) (petit jury’s guilty verdict
cured error in grand jury proceedings because verdict confirmed that there was probable cause to
bring the charges); Doolin, 139 F.3d at 213 (final decision reached “in the normal course of
agency adjudication” “effectively ratified” the earlier Notice of Charges); Combat Veterans, 795
F.3d at 157–58 (FEC’s valid vote finding liability ratified its prior invalid reason-to-believe
(continued…)

13
The fact that the Board had the opportunity to stop the proceedings once the separationof-powers problem was resolved further distinguishes this case from two cases on which Laccetti
relies. In FEC v. NRA Political Victory Fund,39 the court ruled that the FEC’s composition
violated the constitution’s separation of powers and dismissed the underlying enforcement
action. Likewise, in Intercollegiate Broadcast System, Inc. v. Copyright Royalty Bd.
(“Intercollegiate I”),40 the court reversed and remanded a final decision made by an invalidly
appointed Copyright Royalty Board. In each case, the challenged decision was already before
the court of appeals when the administrative entity that made the decision was declared
unconstitutional. Unlike here, there was no opportunity for the entity to cure its constitutional
defect and ratify the challenged decision.
In those cases, therefore, refusing to provide relief to the petitioners would have meant
they would continue to be subjected to a decision made by an unconstitutional entity. Unlike
here, ratification was not an issue. Indeed, these cases were in precisely the same posture as
Free Enterprise Fund. Importantly, while it could have, the Court in Free Enterprise Fund
neither found that the Board’s prior actions were invalid nor ordered dismissal of the
proceedings.41
Other cases holding that an error was not cured by subsequent ratification are likewise
distinguishable. In Ryder,42 the petitioner was convicted by an unconstitutional Coast Guard
Court of Military Review, and the Court held that the subsequent review by the Court of Military
Appeals did not cure the error because that review was too narrow—that is, it was not de novo—
and it failed to give petitioner “a hearing before a properly appointed panel” of the Coast Guard
Court of Military Review.43 Here, by contrast, Laccetti has already had a hearing before a proper
Board, and a final decision that constituted complete review of the Board’s earlier decision to
institute proceedings.
In SW General, Inc. v. NLRB, an improperly appointed General Counsel of the NLRB
issued an unfair labor practice complaint against the petitioner, and the D.C. Circuit held that the
Board’s subsequent final order finding an unfair labor practice did not ratify the invalid

(…continued)

finding); Stryker Spine v. Biedermann Motech GmbH, 684 F. Supp. 2d 68 (D.D.C. 2010) (Board
of Patent Appeal’s decision on rehearing ratified the Board’s prior panel decision).
39

6 F.3d 821, 828 (D.C. Cir. 1993).

40

684 F.3d 1332, 1342 (D.C. Cir. 2012).

41

See supra pp. 9–10.

42

515 U.S. at 188.

43

Id. at 187.

14
complaint.44 Because the NLRB General Counsel is “statutorily independent from the Board,”
and exercises prosecutorial discretion, the court concluded that “notwithstanding the final Board
order, we cannot be confident that the complaint against Southwest would have issued under” a
different General Counsel.45 The court distinguished cases in which—much like here—the
earlier decision is ratified by someone who is “similarly situated and ha[s] the same basic task”
as the original decision-maker.46 In those cases, the identity between the original decisionmaker,
who was constitutionally infirm, and the subsequent decisionmaker, was sufficient to conclude
that there was a ratification of the original action. Here, of course, the entity that instituted
proceedings is the same as the one that ultimately found a violation. Because the Board found
violations and sanctioned Laccetti while subject to proper executive oversight, the OIP would
have issued if the Board had been subject to the same executive oversight at the time it instituted
the proceedings.
And, unlike these cases in which remand was necessary to cure a constitutional violation,
Laccetti’s proceeding was still before the Board when it began to function under the proper
oversight—any error in the proceedings was thereby cured.
Notwithstanding the precedent establishing, in closely analogous circumstances, that
irregularities can be cured by subsequent agency action ratifying the proceeding, Laccetti
contends that the separation-of-powers violation early in his proceedings renders the ultimate
decision subject to “automatic reversal.” He relies on Landry, in which the D.C. Circuit
suggested that an Appointments Clause challenge could warrant reversal despite subsequent de
novo review and therefore without a showing that the violation caused the petitioner any harm.47
Landry does not compel such a result. As the D.C. Circuit recognized, “an important
basis for [its] decision” in Landry was the “special problem” that case presented.48 In Landry,
the petitioner challenged an FDIC order because it was based on the recommendation of an ALJ
whose appointment was allegedly unconstitutional.49 The FDIC argued that any error was
harmless because the agency had conducted a de novo review of the ALJ’s findings in reaching
44

796 F.3d 67, 80–81 (D.C. Cir. 2015).

45

Id. at 80.

46

Id. (distinguishing Mechanik, 475 U.S. at 70, where “a later conviction by a petit jury
supplies virtual certainty that a properly constituted grand jury would have indicted”). The court
further limited its holding by noting: “[O]ur conclusion does not control whether the ineligibility
of an official with prosecutorial responsibilities in other contexts should be considered
harmless.” Id. at 81.
47

204 F.3d at 1131.

48

Intercollegiate II, 796 F.3d at 124 (quoting Landry, 204 F.3d at 1132).

49

Landry, 204 F.3d at 1130.

15
its final decision.50 However, if the actions of an invalidly appointed inferior officer—or any
invalid entity—could be completely cured by the agency’s process of final de novo review, then
the invalidity of the initial decision would forever “escape judicial review.”51 The court relied
upon a line of Supreme Court cases that all raise the same “special problem”: a structural or
fundamental constitutional violation that would evade judicial review if a showing of actual
harm was required and such harm would be always be cured by the administrative body’s de
novo review before the final decision was appealable.52
Here, by contrast, the constitutionality of the Board is not shielded from review; it was
reviewed in Free Enterprise Fund and is subject to further review in this case. Indeed, the
“existence of the Board” was held to be fundamentally valid and its unconstitutional removal
restrictions were remedied in Free Enterprise Fund.53 The “special problem” present in Landry
therefore does not exist here, and accordingly, we reject Laccetti’s argument that the proceedings
are subject to “automatic reversal.” We conclude instead that even if the Board’s pre-Free
Enterprise Fund actions were constitutionally flawed, those flaws were not present when a
constitutionally proper Board issued its Final Decision.
3.

The Board’s Final Decision was not “tainted” by the separation-of-powers
violation

Acknowledging that the Board’s separation-of-powers infirmity had been cured by the
time of its Final Decision, Laccetti contends that the constitutional violation at the outset of its
investigation nevertheless “tainted” the rest of the proceedings. We conclude that there was no
taint. Our conclusion is firmly supported by two decisions of the D.C. Circuit, which held that
the final decision by a properly constituted body was not tainted by a constitutional violation
earlier in the proceedings.
First, in Legi-Tech, the D.C. Circuit refused to dismiss an enforcement action that had
been brought by the FEC while it was unconstitutionally composed.54 While the enforcement
50

Id. at 1131–32.

51

Id.

52

Id. (citing Freytag v. Commissioner, 501 U.S. 868 (1991); Vasquez v. Hillery, 474 U.S.
254, 260 (1986); and United States v. L.A. Tucker Truck Lines, 344 U.S. 33 (1952)). Vasquez
was severely limited by United States v. Mechanik, 475 U.S. 66 (1986), where the Supreme
Court explained that the reasoning in Vasquez “ha[s] little force outside the context of racial
discrimination in the composition of the grand jury.” 475 U.S. at 70 n.1.
53

561 U.S. at 508–09; see Intercollegiate II, 796 F.3d at 124 (rejecting petitioner’s reliance
on Landry, explaining that “[h]ere, however, the unconstitutional arrangement did not escape
judicial review”).
54

75 F.3d at 709.

16
action against Legi-Tech was pending before the district court, the D.C. Circuit decided NRA,
announcing the FEC’s unconstitutionality.55 Shortly thereafter, the FEC reconstituted itself to
comply with NRA and voted to continue the Legi-Tech litigation.56 Legi-tech argued on appeal
that the enforcement action should nevertheless be dismissed because of the earlier separationof-powers violation, but the court disagreed. It rejected Legi-Tech’s argument that because the
separation-of-powers violation was “structural,” “prejudice must be presumed.”57 “To be sure,”
the court explained, “Legi-Tech was prejudiced . . . when the FEC brought suit. But . . . the
relevant issue is the degree of continuing prejudice now, after the FEC’s reconstitution and
ratification, and whether that degree of prejudice—if it exists—requires dismissal.”58 The court
found that the FEC’s vote to continue the litigation—even if it was just a “rubberstamp”—
adequately cured the constitutional violation.59
Similarly, in Intercollegiate II, the D.C. Circuit upheld the final decision reached by the
validly appointed Copyright Royalty Board on remand after Intercollegiate I.60 Intercollegiate
contended that the new decision was “tainted” by the earlier proceedings, in part because the new
Board had not conducted an entirely new hearing but had only performed a de novo review of the
written record.61 And Intercollegiate argued, relying on Landry, that it should not even have to
demonstrate “taint” because “an Appointments Clause violation is a structural error that warrants
reversal regardless of whether prejudice can be shown.”62 The court rejected both arguments. It
held that the new Board’s de novo review of the record cured the earlier Appointments Clause
violation, relying upon the D.C. Circuit’s earlier decisions in Legi-Tech and Doolin.63 The court
rejected Intercollegiate’s reliance on Landry, explaining that “an important basis” for the result
in that case was the fact that requiring a showing of prejudice there would have meant that “all
55

Id. at 706.

56

Id.

57

Id. at 708.

58

Id. (emphasis added). Legi-Tech, like Laccetti, was subject to an investigation before
the FEC’s constitutional infirmity was remedied: the FEC had initiated an investigation in 1986
and engaged in statutorily required settlement negotiations before filing a civil enforcement
action in 1991. Legi-Tech, 75 F.3d at 706. As the D.C. Circuit explained in Doolin, “[t]he
Federal Election Commission must engage in a lengthy, elaborate series of administrative steps
involving investigation and deliberation before it votes to bring an enforcement action in court.”
Doolin, 139 F.3d at 213 n.9.
59

Legi-Tech, 75 F.3d at 709.

60

Intercollegiate II, 796 F.3d at 124; see also supra p. 13.

61

Intercollegiate II, 796 F.3d at 121.

62

Id.

63

Id. at 118.

17
such arrangements would escape judicial review.”64 By contrast, of course, the Copyright
Royalty Board’s unconstitutionality did not escape judicial review—it had been reviewed (and
remedied) in Intercollegiate I.65
Like the NRA and Intercollegiate I courts, the Supreme Court in Free Enterprise Fund
found a constitutional violation at the time of the challenged decision.66 Rather than leaving the
petitioners subject to an ongoing procedure at the hands of an unconstitutionally unaccountable
entity, the Court concluded that reversal and remand were necessary.67 In Laccetti’s case,
however—just as in Intercollegiate II and Legi-Tech—the final decision was reached by a
constitutionally valid Board. By reaching that decision after de novo review of its own earlier
actions, the Board itself removed any conceivable taint from the earlier separation-of-powers
violation. No further remedy is necessary or appropriate.
B.

Laccetti was not denied the right to counsel at his investigative testimony, and any
conceivable error was not prejudicial.

The Board concluded that Laccetti was not denied a right to counsel by the Division’s
refusal to permit an accountant employed by Ernst & Young to sit in on Laccetti’s investigative
testimony as a technical consultant. As an initial matter, no constitutional or statutory right to
counsel exists in PCAOB investigatory proceedings; therefore, the only conceivable basis for
Laccetti’s claimed right relates to a PCAOB rule providing that witnesses may be accompanied
by counsel.68 But that rule is expressly limited by the PCAOB’s discretion to exclude anyone
other than certain enumerated individuals at the testimony.69 In this case, Laccetti was
represented by outside counsel at his testimony. The Division properly exercised its discretion to
exclude another accountant employed by Ernst & Young, from Laccetti’s investigative testimony
session given its concern about the potential for personnel from Laccetti’s employer to monitor
or influence the investigation. And even if the exclusion of Ernst and Young’s accountant was
in error, Laccetti was not prejudiced because the investigatory testimony was not a basis for the
PCAOB’s Final Decision and Laccetti presented evidence and testified at the hearing.

64

Id. at 124; see also supra at pp. 14–15.

65

Intercollegiate II, 796 F.3d at 124.

66

Free Enter. Fund, 561 U.S. at 513.

67

Id. at 513–14.

68

See PCAOB Rule 5109(b) (providing that a person appearing in a Board investigation
“may be accompanied, represented and advised by counsel, subject to Rule 5102(c)(3)”).
69

See PCAOB Rule 5102(c)(3) (limiting those who are permitted to be present at an
investigatory examination); see also supra Section V.B.2 (discussing PCAOB Rules 5109(b) and
5102(c)(3)).

18
1.

Laccetti did not have a constitutional or statutory right to an expert
consultant at his investigative testimony.

There is no constitutional or statutory right to counsel during PCAOB investigative
testimony. Laccetti has never argued that his asserted right to counsel arises from the Sixth
Amendment, which applies only in criminal proceedings, and he has abandoned any argument
that the Fifth Amendment establishes this right—which it does not.70
Nor does the Administrative Procedure Act confer the right Laccetti claims. The APA
does, to be sure, establish a right to counsel for “[a] person compelled to appear in person before
an agency or representative thereof.”71 But Laccetti does not argue that the PCAOB is generally
subject to the APA’s procedural requirements—including the right to counsel—by virtue of
being an “agency” as defined in Section 551 of the APA. In any event, such an argument has no
merit. The PCAOB’s enabling legislation explicitly provides that the Board “shall not be an
agency or establishment of the United States Government,” and that “[n]o member or person
employed by, or agent for, the Board shall be deemed to be an officer or employee of or agent
for the Federal Government by reason of such service.”72
Laccetti argues that the APA’s right to counsel nevertheless applies to PCAOB
proceedings because the PCAOB, despite not being an “agency” or “agent” of the Federal
Government, is a “representative” of an agency within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. § 555(b). But
the plain meaning of the governing statutes forecloses that argument: if the PCAOB is not an
“agent” of the government, it is also not a “representative”—the two terms are synonymous.73

70

Hannah v. Larche, 363 U.S. 420, 440–43 (1960) (Fifth Amendment does not guarantee
the right to counsel in administrative investigative proceedings).
71

5 U.S.C. § 555(b). Laccetti misstates the holding of Backer v. Commissioner, 275 F.2d
141, 143 (5th Cir. 1660), when he contends that the Administrative Procedure Act guarantees a
right to counsel even broader than the one guaranteed by the Fifth Amendment. Backer held
only that the subject of an administrative investigation has a right to counsel under the APA that
encompasses more than the right to have an attorney advise him as to his Fifth Amendment
rights. Backer, 275 F.2d at 143.
72

Sarbanes-Oxley Act § 101(b), 15 U.S.C. § 7211(b) (emphasis added); see also PCAOB
Release No. 2003-015, A2-19 n.1 (Sept. 29, 2003), available at
http://pcaobus.org/Enforcement/Documents/Release2003-015.pdf (noting that the APA does not
apply to PCAOB proceedings).
73

Black’s Law Dictionary 75, 1494 (10th Ed. 2014) (defining “representative” to mean
“one who is stands for or acts on behalf of another . . . See agent”); see also All Party
Parliamentary Grp. on Extraordinary Rendition v. U.S. Dep’t of Defense, 754 F.3d 1047, 1050
(D.C. Cir. 2014) (holding that “representative” and “agent” are synonymous for the purposes of
the Freedom of Information Act); Loving v. IRS, 742 F.3d 1013,1016 (D.C. Cir. 2014) (holding
(continued…)

19
Laccetti points out that the Commission has significant authority over the PCAOB, and states
that the Board’s authority is “derivative” of the Commission’s, but does not explain how either
might transform the PCAOB into a “representative” of the Commission. It is not.
Laccetti also contends that the Commission would violate the APA by approving the
PCAOB’s use of procedures that do not conform to the APA. But he cites no authority for this
proposition, and it is incorrect.74 If it were true, not only the PCAOB but also every selfregulatory organization (SRO)—whose rules the Commission also must approve—would be
required to conform its procedures to the APA. This is not the case; indeed, Congress created
separate criteria for the Commission’s approval of both PCAOB and SRO rules, none of which
requires consideration of the APA.75
2.

The PCAOB’s rules do not establish a right to a technical expert consultant
during investigative testimony.

Laccetti next argues that the PCAOB’s rules providing a right to counsel also establish a
right to a technical expert consultant (in this case an accountant employed by Ernst & Young’s
General Counsel Office) during investigative testimony. Those rules provide only a limited right
to counsel that is narrower than the APA’s and does not encompass the absolute right to a
technical expert consultant.
PCAOB Rule 5109(b) provides that a person appearing in a Board investigation “may be
accompanied, represented and advised by counsel, subject to Rule 5102(c)(3).” (emphasis
added). Rule 5102(c)(3), in turn, limits those who are permitted to be present at an investigatory
examination to: the witness and his or her counsel, any Board member or staff of the Board, the
reporter, and “such other persons as the Board, or the staff of the Board designated in the order
of formal investigation, determine are appropriate to permit to be present; provided, however,
(…continued)

that “representative” means “agent,” citing definitions from dictionaries, including legal
dictionaries, and statutory definitional provisions).
74

Laccetti suggests that “even non-governmental regulators” are subject to the APA via the
Commission’s approval of their rules because courts of appeals “may consider errors in
proceedings even by non-governmental regulators” in certain cases. But that argument assumes
that the regulator made an error in the first place, which is precisely the question before us.
75

15 U.S.C. § 7217(b)(3) (“The Commission shall approve a [PCAOB] proposed rule, if it
finds that the rule is consistent with the requirements of this Act and the securities laws, or is
necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.” (emphases
added)); 15 U.S.C. § 78s(b)(2)(C)(i) (“The Commission shall approve a proposed rule change of
a self-regulatory organization if it finds that such proposed rule change is consistent with the
requirements of this chapter and the rules and regulations issued under this chapter that are
applicable to such organization.” (emphases added)).

20
that in no event shall a person other than the witness who has been or is reasonably likely to be
examined in the investigation be present.” (underlining in original).
Rule 5109(b) does not entitle a witness to a technical expert at investigative testimony, —
and 5102(c)(3) places that determination squarely in the hands of the Board or its staff. Laccetti
reads Rule 5109(b)’s right to counsel as encompassing the right to have a technical expert
consultant at his examination, based on a district court case, SEC v. Whitman, in which the court
read the APA’s right to counsel to include a right for that counsel to be accompanied by an expert
consultant, at least on “those limited occasions when a technical adviser is deemed by the
witness’ attorney to be essential.”76
Nothing in Whitman suggests that the PCAOB’s right to counsel should be read as
broadly as the APA’s right to counsel. The statutory right to counsel in the APA that Whitman
interpreted, quite unlike the PCAOB’s rule, is not subject to another rule limiting the types of
people permitted to be present at the proceeding.77 Laccetti ignores the limitation of Rule
5102(c)(3) in the PCAOB’s attendance rules, suggesting the rule is “nearly identical” to the APA
rule.
3.

The PCAOB properly applied its rules.

We conclude that the Division’s application of the PCAOB’s limited right to counsel in
Laccetti’s case was not erroneous. As the Board correctly found, Laccetti’s counsel requested,
and the Division rejected, the presence of an Ernst & Young accountant acting as Laccetti’s
technical expert consultant, which was well within the scope of the discretion granted to the
Division by Rule 5102(c)(3).
Laccetti’s contention that the Division’s application of PCAOB rules was incorrect rests
entirely on a faulty premise: that the Division, without explanation, refused to allow Laccetti’s
counsel to be assisted by any expert consultant during Laccetti’s investigative testimony. But the
record supports the Board’s finding that Laccetti specifically requested an Ernst & Young
accountant to act as a consultant and the Division denied only that request, not a general request
for consulting advice.
Laccetti’s letter asked the Division to “approve our request to allow our witnesses to be
accompanied during testimony by a technical expert consultant from E&Y’s [General Counsel’s
76

613 F. Supp. 48, 50 (D.D.C. 1985). Laccetti’s counsel’s letter requesting the presence of
an Ernst & Young expert consultant did not assert that the presence of the consultant was
“essential,” but merely that it was “appropriate.” R.D. 182 at 97–98.
77

See 5 U.S.C. § 555(b) (“A person compelled to appear in person before an agency or
representative thereof is entitled to be accompanied, represented, and advised by counsel or, if
permitted by the agency, by other qualified representative.”).

21
Office]”—specifying that the consultant it “ha[d] in mind” was a particular Ernst & Young
partner. The letter explained that an internal consultant could consult “at substantially less cost”
than an outside one, and that there should be no concern about permitting an internal consultant
because other firm personnel— Ernst & Young’s internal counsel—would already be present at
the testimony.
In rejecting the request, the Division cited the PCAOB release accompanying Rule 5102,
which specifically addresses the situation in Laccetti’s case. The release notes that some
commenters suggested, citing Whitman, “that the rules should allow a witness and his or her
counsel to be accompanied by a technical expert consultant during testimony as a matter of
right.”78 The final rule did not incorporate that suggestion, but the release explains that the rule
nevertheless “provides sufficient flexibility for the staff to permit a technical consultant to be
present during investigative testimony, and we expect the staff to allow that presence in
appropriate circumstances and on appropriate terms, including, for example, that the consultant
not be a partner or employee of the firm with which the witness is associated.”79 The release
explained that PCAOB staff was expected “to be vigilant about not permitting a firm’s internal
personnel effectively to monitor an investigation by sitting in on testimony of all firm
personnel.”80
Citing those pages of the release, the letter to Laccetti’s counsel explained that “the
staff’s decision to exclude [the E&Y partner that Laccetti had identified] is fully consistent with
the rationale set forth in that release.” Laccetti contends that the Division banned all potential
expert consultants because its letter stated that the “presence of a technical expert consultant . . .
is not appropriate at this time.” The context of the Division’s letter, however, makes clear that it
was not excluding all possible consultants. The letter named the E&Y partner specifically, and
the rationale for excluding him was based on a release that specifically dealt with the presence of
persons from within the witness’s firm.
The Division reasonably rejected Laccetti’s contention that because Ernst & Young
attorneys would be present at the testimony, there could be no concern about an internal
accountant acting as a consultant. Rule 5102(c)(3) gives the staff wide discretion to exclude
such consultants, but not to exclude the witness’s counsel. In PCAOB proceedings, the presence
of an accountant from the witness’s firm might raise concerns even where in-house counsel is
already present. Even in civil litigation, courts have discretion to exclude individuals from
depositions for good cause, where, for instance, an individual’s presence is likely to “have an

78

PCAOB Release No. 2003-015, A2-18.

79

Id. at A2-18 (emphasis added).

80

Id. at A2-18–A2-19.

22
intimidating influence on the deponent’s testimony.”81 It was, therefore, reasonable for the
Division to exclude Laccetti’s requested Ernst & Young consultant.
4.

Any error in excluding the technical expert consultant was not prejudicial.

In any event, even if he had such a right, the exclusion of Laccetti’s expert consultant was
not prejudicial because it did not affect the Board’s ultimate decision.82 The Board explicitly
disavowed any reliance on Laccetti’s investigative testimony, and there was sufficient evidence
to support the Board’s decision without it.
We have held that errors in early stages of a proceeding—including, for instance, bias of
the examiner or consideration of unfairly prejudicial evidence—do not necessarily invalidate the
final decision.83 In mPhase Technologies, for instance, mPhase contended that FINRA had
improperly considered related allegations in a federal suit that was later dismissed.84 We held
that although the dismissed complaint had been considered by an examiner during the
investigation of mPhase, there was no basis for reversal because it had not been a basis for
FINRA’s ultimate decision.85
Likewise, the Board’s Final Decision here was unaffected by the exclusion of Laccetti’s
expert during his investigative testimony. There is no indication that the Board considered his

81

In re Shell Oil Refinery, 136 F.R.D. 615, 616 (E.D. La. 1991) (excluding corporate
representative from deposition where the deponent was “worried about Abatte’s presence
because even though Abatte is not his supervisor, he is in a position to talk with [the deponent’s]
supervisors and possibly affect his job security”); see also, e.g., Beacon v. R. M. Jones
Apartment Rentals, 79 F.R.D. 141, 141–42 (N.D. Ohio 1978) (“It is clear that under Rule
26(c)(5) the Court has the authority to limit who may attend depositions even to the exclusion of
parties to the suit.”); Local Rules of the United States District Court for the District of Maryland,
App’x A, at 6(h) (guideline providing that only “individual parties; a representative of nonindividual parties; and expert witnesses of parties” may automatically attend a deposition; all
other attendees require agreement of the parties or court permission).
82

See mPhase Techs., Inc., Exchange Act Release No. 74187, 2015 WL 412910, at *8 (Feb.
2, 2015).
83

See, e.g., Dillon Sec., Inc., Exchange Act Release No. 31573, 1992 WL 383783, at *7
n.29 (because NASD examiners do not decide cases, the fact that an examiner was biased “does
not suggest that the fairness of the hearing itself was compromised”); Stephen Russell Boadt,
Exchange Act Release No. 32095, 1993 WL 365355, at *2 (Sept. 15, 1993).
84

2015 WL 412910, at *8.

85

Id.

23
testimony in reaching its decision.86 Rather, the Board disclaimed any reliance on the
investigatory testimony and concluded that its final decision was supported by “other (and
ample) record evidence,” a conclusion that Laccetti has not challenged and that we have affirmed
based on our de novo review of the evidence.87
The fact that Laccetti was charged after his investigative testimony—and that the
decision to institute proceedings may have been based in part upon his investigative testimony—
is not reason enough to assume that he was harmed by the exclusion of his expert consultant.
This contention amounts to an assertion—which Laccetti also makes—that exclusion of the
consultant was a “structural” error, and requires automatic reversal. That assertion fails because
it is based entirely on case law applying the Sixth Amendment right to counsel, which is
inapposite.88 The Sixth Amendment undisputedly does not apply here, nor is it sufficiently
similar to the right to counsel Laccetti claims that its strict standards should be imported from the
criminal context. Sixth Amendment violations are considered structural because they “infect the
entire trial process.”89 By contrast, the violation Laccetti asserts applied only before any
proceedings were instituted against him.
Neither dismissal nor remand would be appropriate remedies for the harm Laccetti
alleges. By declining to rely on the investigatory testimony, the Board already afforded Laccetti

86

Laccetti identifies only one instance in which the Board purportedly relied upon his
investigative testimony. But the Board cited Laccetti’s hearing testimony, which in turn referred
to his investigative testimony. Review of the hearing testimony and the proposition for which it
was cited establishes that the Board was not referring to the investigative testimony, but rather to
a different issue on that page.
87

See supra pp. 6–8; see also, e.g., Richard G. Cody, Exchange Act Release No. 64565,
2011 WL 2098202, at *19 (May 27, 2011) (“[O]ur de novo review of the evidence cures
whatever bias, if any, that may have existed.”). We need not reach Laccetti’s argument that the
Board has the burden to show that any error was harmless because we are convinced that the
PCAOB has met that burden: it has shown that the Board did not rely on the investigative
testimony, and that there was sufficient evidence without that testimony to support the Board’s
final decision. But we doubt the burden lies with the Board. Laccetti’s only support for that
argument, Chapman v. California, 386 U.S. 18, 24 (1967), is a criminal case addressing a
constitutional error. In the much more analogous context of APA review, generally the burden is
on “the party asserting error to demonstrate prejudice from the error.’” First Am. Disc. Corp., v.
CFTC, 222 F.3d 1008, 1015 (D.C. Cir. 2000) (quoting Air Canada v. DOT, 148 F.3d 1142, 1156
(D.C.Cir.1998)).
88

See Williams v. Wynne, 533 F.3d 360, 369 (5th Cir. 2008) (“[T]he Sixth Amendment
right to effective assistance of counsel is a criminal concept with no relevance to administrative
or civil proceedings.”).
89

Brecht v. Abrahamson, 507 U.S. 619, 629-30 (1993).

24
all the remedy to which he was entitled. Therefore, even assuming that it was an error to exclude
the technical expert consultant, neither reversal nor dismissal is appropriate.
C.

Laccetti’s Oath and Commission arguments are waived, and, in any event, those
arguments are meritless.

Laccetti asserts that the PCAOB could not constitutionally impose sanctions on him
because the members of the Board neither swore oaths of office nor received Presidential
commissions. But because he failed to raise these objections before the Board, they are
waived.90 In any event, neither the oath of office nor the Presidential commission is a
prerequisite to assuming office, so his challenge on these grounds is meritless.
1.

Laccetti waived his Oath and Commission arguments by failing to raise them
before the Board.

It is well established that petitioners challenging agency action must exhaust the agency’s
review procedures before bringing their arguments to the courts.91 The same exhaustion
requirement applies when a petitioner seeks Commission review of an SRO action,92 and, for the
same reasons, should apply equally to our review of PCAOB decisions.93 Additionally, Laccetti
does not dispute that these arguments are affirmative defenses, which are waived if not raised in
the answer to the Board’s OIP.94
The requirement that arguments must be raised in a timely manner and first in the proper
forum serve “numerous” purposes: they promote judicial and administrative economy, allow for
the early resolution of errors, “promot[e] the development of a factual record in a forum
particularly suited to create it,” and, in the case of Commission review of PCAOB decisions,
“prevent[] circumvention of th[e] congressional scheme” for the PCAOB’s regulation of the

90

See Boadt, 1993 WL 365355, at *2; Laurie Jones Canady, Exchange Act Release No.
41250, 1999 WL 183600, at *12 (Apr. 5, 1999).
91

See, e.g., Woodford v. Ngo, 548 U.S. 81, 88–89 (2006).

92

See, e.g., MFS Sec. Corp. v. SEC, 380 F.3d 611, 621–22 (2d Cir. 2004).

93

See Free Enter. Fund, 561 U.S. at 484 (the PCAOB “was modeled on private selfregulatory organizations in the securities industry”).
94

See, e.g., Canady, 1999 WL 183600, at *12; see also Legi-Tech, 75 F.3d at 707 (the
“assertion that the FEC is unconstitutionally composed cannot be regarded as anything other than
an affirmative defense against an enforcement proceeding,” which “must be raised in the
pleading”).

25
accounting industry.95 Each of these purposes is well served by a conclusion that Laccetti
waived his Oaths Clause and Commission Clause arguments.
And these arguments can be waived despite Laccetti’s assertion that they go to the
Board’s “authority” to impose sanctions. The principle that “a question of power or jurisdiction”
cannot be waived is “limited to challenges to an agency’s very ‘constitution.’”96 For example, in
Freytag v. Commissioner the Supreme Court exercised its discretion to review an Appointments
Clause challenge despite the appellant’s failure to raise it below, but only because it was a
structural separation-of-powers challenge.97 Balancing the “disruption to sound appellate
process” against “‘the strong interest of the federal judiciary in maintaining the constitutional
plan of separation of powers,’” the Court concluded “that this is one of those rare cases in which
we should exercise our discretion to hear petitioners’ challenge.”98 Laccetti’s challenge, by
contrast, raises technicalities relating to individual Board members, not the constitution of the
Board itself.
Unlike here, the violation in Freytag would have required striking down a statute as
unconstitutional, with far-reaching effects. Nor do Laccetti’s untimely arguments implicate
concerns about “the danger of one branch’s aggrandizing its power at the expense of another,”
nor of eroding “the Constitution’s structural integrity” in any way.99 Most importantly,
Freytag’s review of the arguably waived issue was discretionary, not mandatory.100 Laccetti’s
failure to raise his Oaths Clause and Commission Clause arguments before the Board is reason
enough not to reverse or dismiss on the basis of those challenges.
2.

Neither the Oath of Office nor the Presidential commission is a prerequisite
to assuming office.

Nevertheless, we address—and reject—Laccetti’s Oaths Clause and Commission Clause
arguments on their merits.

95

See MFS Sec., 380 F.3d at 621; see also Boadt, 1993 WL 365355, at *2 (“We are
therefore not required to consider this objection because he failed to present it to the District
Committee at a time when it could have been remedied, if appropriate.”).
96

USAir, Inc. v. DOT, 969 F.2d 1256, 1259 (D.C. Cir. 1992).

97

501 U.S. 868, 878–79 (1991).

98

Id. at 879 (emphasis added).

99

Freytag, 501 U.S. at 878.

100

See Intercollegiate Broad. Sys., Inc. v. Copyright Royalty Bd., 574 F.3d 748, 755 (D.C.
Cir. 2009) (holding that appellants’ Appointment Clause challenge was forfeited and declining to
address it under Freytag).

26
The principal authority on which Laccetti relies for both arguments, Justice Alito’s
concurring opinion in DOT v. Association of American Railroads,101 does not definitively assert
that an officer’s power to act is conditioned on a valid oath or a Presidential commission. Justice
Alito merely raises, but does not resolve, questions about the Oaths and Commission Clauses as
applied to Amtrak board members.102 And the concern he raises—the importance of public
officers being “set apart from ordinary citizens”—is not implicated here, where there is no doubt
that members of the PCAOB are officers who enforce the law.103
a)

The lack of an oath of office does not invalidate the Board’s Final
Decision

Although Article VI, cl. 3, of the Constitution states that “all executive and judicial
Officers, both of the United States and of the several States, shall be bound by Oath or
Affirmation, to support this Constitution,” neither the Constitution nor any other authority speaks
to the consequences of a failure to take such an oath. Indeed, the Office of Legal Counsel (OLC)
has opined that the oath “is not an indispensable criterion” of the office, but is instead “a mere
incident and constitutes no part of the office.”104
None of the authorities Laccetti cites are to the contrary. None state that even where an
oath is required, official acts taken without an oath are invalid.105
Indeed, acts by public officers have historically been upheld as valid despite the lack of
an oath, confirming our conclusion that the failure to take an oath of office would not void the

101

575 U.S. ---, 135 S.Ct. 1225, 1234 (2015).

102

Id. at 1235.

103

See Free Enter. Fund, 561 U.S. at 485.

104

Officers of the United States within the Meaning of the Appointments Clause, 2007 WL
1405459, at *36 (Apr. 16, 2007) (quoting 1 Floyd R. Mechem, The Law of Public Offices and
Officers § 6 (1890)).
105

See, e.g., 14 U.S. Op. Att’y Gen. 406, 408 (1874) (for the purposes of the Article I
requirement that an officer shall not simultaneously be a member of Congress, a person elected
to Congress “does not become a member of the House until he takes the oath of office,” so he
may retain his public office until that time); 12 Op. O.L.C. 18, 29 (1988) (the United States
Sentencing Commission may be represented in court by private counsel, but “[d]epending on the
role assumed by such private counsel . . . , they may have to be appointed as officers of the
United States and take the requisite oath of office”); Humphrey’s Ex’r v. United States, 295 U.S.
602, 618 (1935) (merely noting that Humphrey, “after taking the required oath of office, entered
upon his duties”); see also 15 U.S. Op. Att’y Gen. 280, 281 (1877) (reaching the same
conclusion for the purposes of a statute prohibiting members of Congress from having an interest
in any contract with the federal government).

27
PCAOB’s actions. In Vaccari v. Maxwell,106 for example, the court held that a merchant
appraiser’s valuation, “done without the sanction of an oath, [was] both irregular and void,” but
expressly distinguished this result from the line of cases involving “those who hold office under
some degree of notoriety, or are in the exercise of continuous official acts, or are in possession of
a place which has the character of a public office.”107 The court limited its holding to officials,
like merchant appraisers, “who take no rank as public officers,” but instead are “charged with the
performance of a single act, or appointed to act in an individual case.”108 Members of the
PCAOB, on the other hand, are among those whose position “has the character of a public
office”; with respect to those officers, Vaccari confirmed that the oath has “not been regarded by
the courts as conditions precedent to their rightful authorization.”109
b)

The lack of Presidential commissions does not invalidate the PCAOB
order

Article II, Section 3 of the Constitution lists certain duties of the President, including an
obligation to “Commission all the Officers of the United States.” But, just as with the Oaths
Clause, the Constitution does not condition an officer’s power on the President fulfilling his or
her duty to issue commissions. In fact, it is well established that an appointment to office is
effective when the appointing authority, “by an open and unequivocal act, expresses his will
making an appointment.”110
An officer’s appointment is usually completed by the President’s signature on a
commission, which serves as “conclusive evidence” of the appointment.111 But this does not
mean, as Laccetti contends, that an officer without a commission lacks the power to act. To the
contrary, the Supreme Court in Marbury noted that “if the appointment was to be evidenced by
any public act, other than the commission, the performance of such public act would create the
officer.”112

106

28 F. Cas. 862, 865 (C.C.S.D.N.Y. 1885) (No. 16,810).

107

Id. at 865.

108

Id.

109

Id.; see also, e.g., Johnson v. Sullivan, 748 F. Supp. 2d 1, 13 (D.D.C. 2010) (“[T]he
plaintiff cannot now be allowed to undermine the validity of the criminal proceedings on the
ground that McCool had not taken a valid oath of office.”).
110

Bennett v. United States, 19 Ct. Cl. 379, 385 (1884) (quotation marks omitted) (quoting
Marbury v. Madison 5 U.S. (1 Cranch) at 157 (1803)).
111

Marbury, 1 Cranch at 157.

112

Id. (emphasis added).

28
Courts have long relied on Marbury to conclude that the lack of a commission does not
deprive an officer of the power of the office, and that an appointment is effective upon any “open
and unequivocal act.” In Bennett, for instance, the court held that an officer’s appointment was
effective when the President followed the prevailing practice of recording the appointment in the
War Department and, with the knowledge and consent of the President, the officer “was
permitted to have and to hold” the office.113 Based on Marbury, the attorney general has opined:
To give a public officer the power to act as such, an appointment must be made in
pursuance of the previous nomination and advice and consent of the Senate, the
commission issued being the evidence that the purpose of appointment signified
by the nomination has not been changed.114
Laccetti can point to no contrary authority.115 Accordingly, we conclude that the PCAOB
members’ appointments were complete when the Commission unequivocally provided notice to
the Board that the appointments were effective.
c)

The Board’s Final Decision is valid under the de facto officer doctrine.

Even assuming the Board members’ titles to their offices were defective, the Board’s
order is valid under the de facto officer doctrine. That doctrine ensures that “where there is an
office to be filled and one acting under color of authority fills the office and discharges its duties,
his actions are those of an officer de facto and binding upon the public.”116 The doctrine “seeks
to protect the public by insuring the orderly functioning of the government despite technical
defects in title to office.”117

113

19 Ct. Cl. at 385.

114

4 U.S. Op. Att’y Gen. 217, 219–20 (1843) (emphasis added); see also, e.g., Dysart v.
United States, 369 F.3d 1303, 1311–12 (Fed. Cir. 2004) (“[T]he granting of a commission is not
always required for a Presidential appointment”; appointment of a rear admiral is complete upon
the transmission of a letter of appointment on the President’s behalf); Nippon Steel Corp. v. ITC,
26 C.I.T. 1025, 1031 (2002) (no commission was necessary to complete the appointment of the
Commissioner of the International Trade Commission).
115

United States v. Le Baron, 60 U.S. (19 How.) 73, 78 (1856), does not hold, as Laccetti
asserts, that an appointment is not complete without a commission. Rather, it merely holds that
delivery of the commission is not required, and does not address the effect of the existence (or
non-existence) of the commission. Id.
116
117

NRA, 6 F.3d at 828.

Ryder, 515 U.S. at 180–81 (quoting 63A Am. Jur. 2d, Public Officers and Employees
§ 578, pp. 1080–1081 (1984)).

29
The de facto officer doctrine prohibits collateral attacks on the past actions of “a person
acting with color of authority.”118 A prohibited “collateral attack” is one “in which plaintiffs
attack government action on the ground that the officials who took the action were improperly in
office.”119 By contrast, “direct” attacks are those “in which plaintiffs attack the qualifications of
the officer, rather than the actions taken by the officer.”120 Because the latter is “an extremely
difficult and uncertain remedy,” courts recognize an exception to the prohibition on collateral
attacks like Laccetti’s.121
A person collaterally attacking an official’s authority must jump two hurdles:
First, the plaintiff must bring his action at or around the time that the challenged
government action is taken. Second, the plaintiff must show that the agency or
department involved has had reasonable notice under all the circumstances of the
claimed defect in the official’s title to office. . . . These two requirements
adequately protect citizens’ reliance on past government actions and the
government’s ability to take effective and final action—the two interests served
by the de facto officer doctrine.122
Laccetti meets neither requirement. The first may be met by raising a challenge as a
defense to an enforcement action, but only if it is timely raised and the challenger exhausts the
available administrative remedies.123 We have already concluded that Laccetti’s challenge was
not timely raised, and that he failed to satisfy the rules of exhaustion by raising it in the proper
course of administrative proceedings.124
As to the second, the agency “must actually know of the claimed defect”—this “ensures
that the agency has a chance to remedy any defects (especially narrowly technical defects)” as

118

Id. at 182.

119

Andrade v. Lauer, 729 F.2d 1475, 1496 (D.C. Cir. 1984).

120

Id.

121

Laccetti erroneously suggests that his challenge is not a “collateral attack” because he
raises “a constitutional challenge as a defense to an enforcement action.” Reply at 22. To the
contrary, his attack is collateral because it is an “attack [on] government action” rather than on
the officer’s qualifications themselves. Lauer, 729 F.2d at 1496 (emphasis added). The fact that
his argument is raised as a defense to an enforcement action does not, without more, exempt it
from the de facto officer doctrine. See infra p. 30.
122

Lauer, 729 F.2d at 1499.

123

SW Gen., Inc., v. NLRB, 796 F.3d 67, 81–82 (D.C. Cir. 2015) (citing Legi-Tech, 75 F.3d
at 707).
124

Supra pp. 24–25.

30
early as possible.125 Laccetti does not even assert that the Board was aware of the alleged defects
at the time of its decision; certainly, Laccetti did not bring them to the Board’s attention.
Courts have recognized limited exceptions to this general rule, but Laccetti’s challenge
does not fall into any of those exceptions. In cases where the court declined to apply the general
rule, the challenge involved “basic constitutional protections,”126 a “fundamental” “question of
judicial authority,”127 or structural separation-of-powers principles.128 Laccetti’s challenge does
not fall into any of these categories. To the contrary, the violations Laccetti asserts are precisely
the kind of “technical defects in title to office” that the de facto officer doctrine was intended to
forgive in the interests of finality and protecting the public’s reliance on government actions.129
For the foregoing reasons, we sustain the Board’s findings of violations and imposition of
sanctions.
An appropriate order will issue.130
By the Commission (Chair WHITE and Commissioners STEIN and PIWOWAR).

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

125

SW Gen., 796 F.3d at 82 (quoting Andrade, 729 F.2d at 1499).

126

Glidden Co. v. Zdanok, 370 U.S. 530, 536 (1962).

127

Nguyen v. United States, 539 U.S. 69, 79 (2003).

128

Ryder, 515 U.S. at 182; NRA, 6 F.3d at 827.

129

Ryder, 515 U.S. at 180–81.

130

We have considered all of the parties’ contentions. We have rejected or sustained them
to the extent that they are inconsistent or in accord with the views expressed in this opinion.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78764 / September 2, 2016
Admin. Proc. File No. 3-16430
In the Matter of the Application of
MARK E. LACCETTI, CPA
For Review of Disciplinary Action Taken by
the
PCAOB

ORDER SUSTAINING DISCIPLINARY ACTION TAKEN BY PUBLIC COMPANY
ACCOUNTING OVERSIGHT BOARD
On the basis of the Commission’s opinion issued this day, it is
ORDERED that the PCAOB’s disciplinary actions taken against Mark E. Laccetti, CPA,
be sustained.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

