UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78269 / July 8, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17329
CORRECTED ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
TONI TONG CHEN, CPA
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Toni Tong Chen
(“Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s
jurisdiction over her and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the findings contained in
Section III.2. below, and consents to the entry of the Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings
Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing
Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:

1.
Respondent was born in 1968 in China and emigrated to the United States in
approximately 1985. Respondent resides in Hacienda Heights, CA and, from at least 2012 to the
present, has done business in California. From 1996 to August 2012, Respondent was associated
with broker-dealers registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
2.
On June 29, 2016, a judgment was entered by consent against Chen, permanently
enjoining her from future violations of Sections 5 and 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933
(“Securities Act”), Sections 10(b) and 15(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, in
the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. CKB168 Holdings Ltd., et al,
Civil Action Number 13-CV-5584, in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of
New York.
3.
The Commission’s complaint alleged that from approximately May 2012 through
at least October 2013, Chen solicited investments in an entity that was falsely portrayed as a
profitable multi-level marketing company that sells web-based children’s educational courses.
During a portion of this time, she was also a registered representative of a registered brokerdealer. The complaint alleged that, in fact, the company was a fraudulent pyramid scheme. The
complaint also alleged that Chen sold unregistered securities and acted as an unregistered brokerdealer.
4.
On March 25, 2016, Chen entered into a written agreement to plead guilty to one
count of wire fraud in violation of 18 U.S.C. §1343 before the United States District Court for
the Central District of California, in in United States v. Cheong Wha Chang, et. al., Cr. No. 1500475-DSF.
5.

In connection with that plea, Chen admitted that:

(a)
she promoted and participated in an investment scheme operated by a
group of entities and collectively known as “CKB168” or “CKB”:
(b)
she solicited and obtained investments in CKB from victim investors by
falsely representing, among other things, that CKB was a legitimate and profitable business and
that investors could returns in the form of “profit reward points” or “PRPTs” that could be
exchanged for actual dollars; and
(c)

she knew that these representations to victim investors were false when

she made them
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Chen’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act
that Respondent Chen be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer,
2

investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally
recognized statistical rating organization; and
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent Chen be, and hereby is
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder,
consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for
purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the
purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

