UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78210 / June 30, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17322

In the Matter of

ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

ICAN INVESTMENT
GROUP, LLC,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against ICAN Investment
Group, LLC (“ICAN” or Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these
proceedings and the findings contained in Section III.2. below, which are admitted, Respondent
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions
(“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Respondent, a Texas limited liability company formed in October 2013 by
Christopher A. Novinger, maintains its principal place of business in Mansfield, Texas. Novinger,
ICAN’s sole director, formed ICAN to receive commissions on his sales of life settlement interests.
Neither ICAN nor its securities is registered with the Commission, and ICAN has not registered
any offering of securities with the Commission.
2.
On June 6, 2016, a final judgment was entered by consent against Respondent,
permanently enjoining it from future violations of Section 15(a) of the Exchange Act, in the civil
action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Christopher A. Novinger, Brady J. Speers,
NFS Group, LLC d/b/a Novers Financial a/k/a Safe Retirement Experts, ICAN Investment Group,
LLC, and Speers Financial Group, LLC, Civil Action Number 4:15-CV-358-O, in the United States
District Court for the Northern District of Texas, Fort Worth Division.
3.
The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Respondent acted as
an unregistered broker-dealer in offering and selling – and receiving commissions from sales of –
life settlement interests to investors and prospective investors.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act,
that Respondent be, and hereby is:
barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal
securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized
statistical rating organization; and
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a
promoter, finder, consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a
broker, dealer or issuer for purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock,
or inducing or attempting to induce the purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a

2

customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

