UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 79079 / October 11, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4547 / October 11, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17511

In the Matter of

ORDER MAKING FINDINGS AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
AND SECTION 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

PAMELLA B. WATSON,
Respondent.

I.
On August 29, 2016, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) instituted
public administrative proceedings against Pamella B. Watson (“Watson” or “Respondent”)
pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Section
203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”). The Commission now deems it
appropriate and in the public interest to enter this Order Making Findings and Imposing Remedial
Sanctions Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 203(f) of
the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Order”).
II.
Respondent has submitted an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has
determined to accept. Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings
brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent
admits the Commission’s jurisdiction over her and the subject matter of these proceedings, and
admits the findings in paragraph III.2 below, and consents to the entry of this Order, as set forth
below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Watson operated Watson & Associates Business Services, Inc., a tax preparation
business in Miami, Florida and was formerly licensed as a certified public accountant in the state
of Florida. From June 2003 through November 2012, Watson was associated with AXA Advisors,
LLC, a broker-dealer and investment adviser registered with the Commission. Respondent, 61
years old, was a resident of Davie, Florida and is currently incarcerated.
2.
On September 25, 2015, Watson pleaded guilty to one count of wire fraud in
violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1343, before the United States District Court for
the Southern District of Florida. United States v. Pamella Watson, Case No. 15-60106-CR-COHN
(S.D. Fla). On December 4, 2015, a judgment in the criminal case was entered against Watson.
She was sentenced to a prison term of 78 months followed by three years of supervised release and
was ordered to pay restitution in the amount of over $3.6 million.
3.
The count of the criminal Indictment to which Watson pled guilty alleged, among
other things, that Watson used various methods to fraudulently file federal income tax returns and
received unauthorized tax refunds on behalf of her clients. According to the Indictment, between
approximately January 2011 and September 2014, Watson diverted over $3.4 million of the
fraudulently obtained client tax refunds into bank accounts she controlled. She also diverted client
checks made out to the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) totaling almost $223,000 to pay her own
personal IRS tax bill.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Watson’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act,
and Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act, that Respondent Watson be, and hereby is barred from
association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal
advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating organization; and
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent Watson be, and hereby is
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder,
consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for
purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the
purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
2

waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

