UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78083 / June 15, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17296
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
David L. Post,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act) against David L. Post
(“Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s
jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the findings contained in
Section III below, and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings
Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing
Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that
1.
Post was a vice president in Broker Dealer Services Product Management at a
financial services firm comprised of subsidiaries including a broker-dealer registered with the
Commission. Post, 42 years old, is a resident of Livingston, New Jersey. Post was registered with
the Commission from 1997 through 2001 and 2004 through 2006.
2.
On March 1, 2016, a final judgment was entered by consent against Post,
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule
10b-5 thereunder in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Zachary
Zwerko, et ano, 1:14-CV-8181 (RJS), in the United States District Court for the Southern District
of New York.
3.
The Commission’s complaint alleged that Post engaged in an insider trading
scheme with Zachary Zwerko, generating over $683,000 in illegal profit by purchasing potential
pharmaceutical acquisition targets before public announcement of the acquisitions.
4.
On October 24, 2014, Post pled guilty to three counts of securities fraud and one
count of conspiracy to commit securities fraud before the United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York, in United States v. Post, et ano, Crim. Information No. 1:14-CR715. On November 12, 2015, a judgment in the criminal case was entered against Post. He was
sentenced to a prison term of 6 months followed by two years of supervised release and ordered to
make restitution in the amount of $737,628 and pay a fine of $50,000.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Post’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act,
that Respondent Post be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment
adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized
statistical rating organization; and
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent Post be, and hereby is barred
from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder,
consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for
purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the
purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
2

disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

