UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78906 / September 22, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17566

In the Matter of
WILMINGTON SAVINGS
FUND SOCIETY, FSB,

ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST
PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO SECTION
21C OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934, MAKING FINDINGS AND
IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER

Respondent.
I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Wilmington Savings Fund Society,
FSB (“WSFS” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting
Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
Making Findings and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds1 that:
Summary
1.
These proceedings arise from WSFS’ fundamental failure to comply with the
rules and regulations that govern the conduct of transfer agents. Transfer agents are gatekeepers
who provide critical services to issuers and their shareholders, including maintaining accurate
shareholder records, timely processing of transfers, and responding to shareholder inquiries. To
that end, issuers of securities, including corporations with securities registered under Section 12
of the Exchange Act, engage transfer agents to perform various recordkeeping functions.
2.
Pursuant to Section 17A of the Exchange Act, the Commission promulgated rules
governing services provided by registered transfer agents (the “Transfer Agent Rules”). As a
registered transfer agent, WSFS was required to, among other things: (1) keep its registration
current and accurate and to file annual reports regarding its transfer agent services; (2) make and
maintain certain books and records for each issuer to which it provided transfer agent services;
and (3) have written policies and procedures with respect to certain of its transfer agent services.
3.
WSFS commenced acting as a transfer agent in 2010. From that time through
2013, however, WSFS failed to keep its registration current and accurate and failed to file an
accurate annual report of its services. In addition, although WSFS maintained some records for
issuers to which it provided transfer agent services, it did not maintain all of the records or create
all of the reports required by the Transfer Agent Rules. Further, those records WSFS did
maintain were inaccurate and/or incomplete. Finally, during this period, WSFS did not have any
written policies or procedures to ensure compliance with the Transfer Agent Rules and WSFS
employees were unaware of the Rules and received no training regarding the Transfer Agent
Rules until 2013.
Respondent
4.
WSFS is a subsidiary of WSFS Financial Corporation (NASDAQ: WSFS), a
financial services holding company headquartered in Wilmington, Delaware. WSFS is
registered as a transfer agent with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. WSFS
provides comprehensive financial services, including commercial banking, retail banking and,
through its Christiana Trust division, transfer agent services and trust and wealth management.
Other Relevant Persons and Entities
5.
Andrew K. Proctor (“Proctor”), age 59, maintains a permanent U.S. residence in
Perris, California, but is believed to spend the majority of his time in Hong Kong. He is
currently the sole managing member of Atlas JG, LLC.

1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.
2

6.
Atlas JG, LLC (“Atlas”) is a Delaware limited liability company formed by
Proctor in 2006. Atlas is not registered with the Commission.
Background
7.
On December 3, 2010, WSFS acquired Christiana Bank & Trust Company
(“CB&T”). CB&T ceased to exist and WSFS began performing the services formerly performed
by CB&T, including transfer agent services, under the name Christiana Trust. WSFS provided
transfer agent services, as defined by Section (3)(a)(25) of the Exchange Act, to a number of
clients, including to at least one issuer with a security that was registered under Section 12 of the
Exchange Act.
8.
The transfer agent services undertaken by WSFS included maintaining master
securityholder files (i.e., official lists of individual securityholder accounts), registering
ownership and the transfer of ownership of securities, monitoring the issuance of securities, and
handling, processing and storing paper securities certificates.
WSFS Filed Inaccurate Transfer Agent Registration and Annual Reporting Forms in
Violation of Sections 17A(c)(1) and 17A(d)(1) and Rules 17Ac2-1 and 17Ac2-2 Thereunder
9.
Section 17A(c) of the Exchange Act requires transfer agents to register with the
Commission or, if the transfer agent is a bank, with a bank regulatory agency, before providing
transfer agent services. Pursuant to Section 17A(c)(2), to register, a bank transfer agent files a
registration form (Form TA-1), which provides basic information about the transfer agent’s
business and activities. The Form TA-1 must be kept current and updated on an as-needed basis.
If any of the information on the Form TA-1 becomes inaccurate, misleading or incomplete, Rule
17Ac2-1(c) requires the transfer agent to file an amendment to the form within 60 days of the
occurrence. Rule 17Ac2-2(a) requires each registered transfer agent to also file an annual report
with the Commission on Form TA-2, describing its transfer agent activities. These forms
provide important information about the organization and activities of registered transfer agents,
which allows the Commission to more effectively and efficiently monitor the activities of
registered transfer agents and to evaluate compliance with the Transfer Agent Rules.
10.
On December 3, 2010, WSFS acquired CB&T and immediately began performing
the transfer agent services that had previously been performed by CB&T. However, although it
was required to amend its Form TA-1 within 60 days of any change that would render the form
“inaccurate, misleading, or incomplete,” WSFS did not file a Form TA-1 until June 22, 2011, six
months later. Moreover, when WSFS filed its untimely Form TA-1, it inaccurately listed the
name of the entity performing transfer agent services as “Wilmington Savings Fund Society,
FSB,” rather than “Wilmington Savings Fund Society, FSB D/B/A Christiana Trust.” This is
inaccurate because WSFS markets its transfer agent services under the name Christiana Trust.
11.
In addition, WSFS did not file an annual Form TA-2 for the year ending
December 31, 2010, even though it had operated as a transfer agent since acquiring CB&T
earlier that month.
12.
Further, when WSFS finally filed its first annual Form TA-2 on April 16, 2012,
for the year ending December 31, 2011, WSFS failed to identify the correct number of individual
3

securityholder accounts for which it maintained master securityholder files. WSFS was unable
to provide the correct number on its Form TA-2 because it could not identify all of the issuers to
which it provided transfer agent services.
WSFS Failed to Maintain Accurate Books and Records in Violation of Sections 17(a) and
17A(d)(1) and Rules 17Ad-10 and 17Ad-11
13.
Pursuant to Rule 17Ad-10(e), a recordkeeping transfer agent must keep an
accurate control book, which is a record or other document that shows the total number of shares
(in the case of equity securities) or the principal dollar amount (in the case of debt securities)
authorized and issued by the issuer.
14.
In addition, Rule 17Ad-10(a) requires a recordkeeping transfer agent to accurately
post transactions to the master securityholder file with details, such as the certificate number,
number of shares or principal dollar amount, the securityholder’s registration, the address of the
registered securityholder, and the issue and cancellation dates for the security (“Certificate
Detail”), about the securities issued, purchased, transferred or redeemed. When there is a
discrepancy between the Certificate Detail for a security transferred or redeemed and the
Certificate Detail posted to the master securityholder file, Rule 17Ad-10(a)(1) requires that the
details of that discrepancy must be maintained in a subsidiary file. The transfer agent must
diligently and continuously seek to resolve those differences and then promptly update the
master securityholder file.
15.
A transfer agent’s failure to perform its duties promptly, accurately, and safely
can compromise the accuracy of an issuer’s securityholder records, disrupt the channels of
communication between issuers and securityholders, disenfranchise investors, and expose
investors, securities intermediaries, and the securities markets as a whole to significant financial
loss.
16.
WSFS maintained master securityholder files for several issuers to which it
provided transfer agent services; however, those files contained multiple inaccuracies. For
example, for certain issues, WSFS failed to maintain accurate records of the outstanding
balances and registered incorrect securityholder names in the master securityholder files.
17.
Further, WSFS did not maintain subsidiary files or a control book for any issuers
to which it provided transfer agent services and, therefore, WSFS could not determine whether,
for any issuers, there were differences between the total number of shares or total principal dollar
amount of securities in the master securityholder file for a particular issue and the number of
shares or principal dollar amount in the control book for that issue (one type of a “Record
Difference”). WSFS was required to report Record Differences that existed for more than 30
days (“Aged Record Differences”) and exceeded certain aggregate dollar thresholds that are
established by Rule 17Ad-11 of the Transfer Agent Rules. WSFS was unable to determine
whether Aged Record Differences existed and, therefore, was unable to determine whether it was
required to report any Aged Record Differences. Indeed, WSFS’ account administrators did not
even know that WSFS was required to maintain subsidiary files or a control book.

4

WSFS Did Not Have Any Written Policies or Procedures in Violation of Sections 17(a) and
17A(d)(1) and Rules 17Ad-15, 17Ad-17, and 17Ad-19 Thereunder
18.
Several of the Transfer Agent Rules explicitly require transfer agents like WSFS
to maintain written procedures with respect to certain aspects of the performance of their transfer
agent services. For example, the Transfer Agent Rules require that transfer agents establish
written standards regarding signature guarantees (Rule 17Ad-15); that transfer agents maintain
written procedures regarding their obligation to search for lost securityholders (Rule 17Ad-17);
and that transfer agents establish and implement written procedures relating to the disposition of
securities certificates (Rule 17Ad-19). However, WSFS did not adopt any written policies or
procedures regarding its transfer agent services until 2013.
19.
In addition, the WSFS Account Administrators, who performed the daily transfer
agent services, including maintaining the master securityholder files, were unaware of the
Transfer Agent Rules and did not receive any training regarding compliance with the Transfer
Agent Rules until WSFS adopted written policies and procedures in 2013.
Transfer Agent Services Provided To Atlas
20.
One of the accounts for which WSFS provided transfer agent services was Atlas.
On June 14, 2016, the Commission filed a Complaint in U.S. District Court against Proctor and
Atlas, SEC v. Andrew K. Proctor & Atlas JG, LLC, Civ. A. No. 1:16-cv-00437-UNA (D. Del.
June 14, 2016) (the “Complaint”). As alleged in the Complaint, from 2007 through 2011,
Proctor, a recidivist securities fraudster, raised through Atlas more than $22 million from at least
200 overseas investors through a fraudulent offering of purported bonds promising annual
returns of eight to nine percent. Proctor told prospective investors that their investments would
be used to purchase receivables from homebuilding subcontractors at a discount, and that Atlas
would profit from the discounted price it paid for the receivables relative to the amount
ultimately collected on them. The Complaint alleged Atlas used less than 10 percent of the funds
raised to buy receivables as promised and used the rest to make so-called “interest” and
“principal” payments to investors, to fund offshore investments in Asia, and to finance his
lifestyle.
21.
Proctor and Atlas became clients of CB&T in December 2007 when CB&T
agreed to perform transfer agent services for Atlas. WSFS subsequently acquired CB&T and
from December 2010 through the fall of 2013, WSFS served as the registrar, paying agent and
transfer agent for Atlas’ purported bonds. Among other services, and at the direction of Proctor,
WSFS registered the ownership of the bonds; received subscription fees from the bondholders;
wired and recorded quarterly payments to bondholders; transferred bond ownership; recorded
redemptions of bondholders; and received money into or wired money out of the Atlas escrow
account maintained by WSFS.
22.
WSFS failed to maintain accurate books and records for the Atlas account and,
therefore, its master securityholder files for Atlas contained a number of inaccuracies. For
example, WSFS’ master securityholder file reflected that certain of Atlas’ bond holders had been
redeemed as of December 31, 2012 when they had not.

5

23.
In addition, WSFS failed to maintain a subsidiary file or control book for Atlas
and, therefore, WSFS was unable to determine whether there were Aged Record Differences it
was required to report.
Applicable Law
24.
The Commission has authority, pursuant to Section 17A(d)(3)(B) of the Exchange
Act, to enforce a bank transfer agent’s compliance with Section 17A of the Exchange Act and
the Transfer Agent Rules promulgated thereunder.
25.
Section 17A(c)(1) requires any transfer agent that “use[s] the mails or any means
or instrumentality of interstate commerce to perform the function of a transfer agent with respect
to any security registered under section 12 of [the Exchange Act] or which would be required to
be registered except for the exemption from registration provided by subsection (g)(2)(B) or
(g)(2)(G) of that section” to register as a transfer agent with the appropriate regulatory agency.
26.
Section 17A(d)(1) states that “No . . . registered transfer agent shall, directly or
indirectly, engage in any activity as . . . transfer agent in contravention of such rules and
regulations (A) as the Commission may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public
interest, for the protection of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of [the
Exchange Act] . . . .”
27.
Section 17A(c)(1) requires a transfer agent to register “in accordance with this
section”; and (2) if any information in its registration (Form TA-1) becomes inaccurate,
misleading, or incomplete, to correct that information by filing an amended Form TA-1 within
60 days of the information becoming inaccurate, misleading or incomplete (Rule 17Ac2-1(c)).
28.
Rule 17Ac2-2(a) requires that transfer agents file with the Commission an annual
report, known as a Form TA-2.
29.
Sections 17(a)(1) and 17(a)(3) of the Exchange Act require transfer agents to
make and keep current and to retain certain records for prescribed periods of time. The
recordkeeping Rules promulgated under the Exchange Act contain a number of requirements for
a recordkeeping transfer agent, which is defined by Rule 17Ad-9(h) as a “registered transfer
agent that maintains and updates the master securityholder file.”
30.
Rule 17Ad-10(a) requires every recordkeeping transfer agent to “promptly and
accurately post to the master securityholder file debits and credits containing minimum and
appropriate certificate detail representing every security transferred, purchased, redeemed or
issued. . . .” Rule 17Ad-10 further requires a recordkeeping transfer agent to maintain and keep
current an accurate: (1) master securityholder file and subsidiary files (Rule 17Ad-10(b)); and (2)
control book (Rule 17Ad-10(e)). When a discrepancy occurs that requires a transfer agent to
post a debit to the subsidiary file, the “recordkeeping transfer agent shall exercise diligent and
continuous attention to resolve the resulting record difference . . . .”
31.
Rule 17Ad-11 requires recordkeeping transfer agents to report Aged Record
Differences to issuers (Rule 17Ad-11(b)) and appropriate regulatory agencies (Rule 17Ad-11(c)).
6

32.
Rules 17Ad-15, 17Ad-17 and 17Ad-19 require transfer agents to maintain written
procedures with respect to certain aspects of the performance of their transfer agent services.
33.
Rule 17Ad-15 requires a registered transfer agent to maintain written standards
for the acceptance of guarantees of securities transfers from eligible guarantor institutions and
procedures, including written guidelines where appropriate, to ensure that those standards are
used in determining whether to accept or reject guarantees from eligible guarantor institutions.
34.
Rule 17Ad-17 requires a recordkeeping transfer agent to maintain written
procedures which describe the transfer agent’s methodology for complying with its obligation to
search for lost securityholders.
35.
Rule 17Ad-19 requires that a transfer agent involved in the handling, processing
or storage of securities certificates shall establish and implement written procedures for the
cancellation, storage, transportation, destruction or other disposition of securities certificates.
Rule 17Ad-19 also establishes a number of minimum requirements for the written procedures.
Violations
36.
As a result of the conduct described above, WSFS violated Sections 17(a)(1),
17(a)(3), 17A(c)(1), and 17A(d)(1) of the Exchange Act and the following rules promulgated
thereunder: Rules 17Ac2-1; 17Ac2-2; 17Ad-10; 17Ad-11; 17Ad-15; 17Ad-17; and 17Ad-19.
WSFS’ Remedial Efforts
37.
In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts
promptly undertaken by Respondent and cooperation afforded the Commission staff.
38.
Specifically, WSFS undertook a number of steps to enhance the procedures
around its transfer agent services, including retaining an independent compliance consultant to
conduct a risk assessment, revising its policies and procedures, hiring new staff, and instituting
new trainings for staff.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions
agreed to in Respondent WSFS’ Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent WSFS cease and desist
from committing or causing any violations or future violations of Sections 17(a)(1), 17(a)(3),
17A(c)(1), and 17A(d)(1) of the Exchange Act and the following rules promulgated thereunder:
Rules 17Ac2-1; 17Ac2-2; 17Ad-10; 17Ad-11; 17Ad-15; 17Ad-17; and 17Ad-19.
B.
Respondent WSFS shall, within 30 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil
money penalty in the amount of $375,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for
transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section
7

21F(g)(3). If timely payment of the civil penalty is not made, additional interest shall accrue
pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717. Payment must be made in one of the following ways:
(1)

Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission,
which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon
request;

(2)

Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Building, Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
WSFS as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of
the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to G. Jeffrey Boujoukos, Associate
Regional Director, Securities and Exchange Commission, Philadelphia Regional Office, 1617
JFK Boulevard, Suite 520, Philadelphia, PA 19103.
Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor
Action, it shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor shall it benefit by, offset or reduction of any
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil
penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such
a Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that it shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order
granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount
of the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall not be
deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil

8

penalty imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action”
means a private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more
investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the
Commission in this proceeding.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

9

