UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-15654

In the Matter of
G-TRADE SERVICES LLC,
CONVERGEX GLOBAL MARKETS
LIMITED, and CONVERGEX
EXECUTION SOLUTIONS LLC,
Respondents.

:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:

PLAN OF DISTRIBUTION
1. Background. This Plan of Distribution (the “Plan”) has been developed pursuant to the
Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 15(b) and
21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Section 203(e) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a
Cease-and-Desist Order against G-Trade Services LLC (“G-Trade”), ConvergEx Global Markets
Limited and ConvergEx Execution Solutions LLC (“CES”) (collectively, “Respondents”) (the
“Order”) (Exchange Act Release No. 71128 (Dec. 18, 2013)). This Plan is subject to approval by
the Commission, and the Commission retains jurisdiction over the implementation of the Plan.
In the Order, the Commission found that Respondents engaged in a fraudulent scheme to
conceal their practice of unnecessarily routing certain global trading and transition management
customer orders to an offshore affiliate in order to charge undisclosed mark-ups and mark-downs
(“trading profits” or “TP”), in addition to disclosed commissions on those orders. The scheme
involved the taking of TP on orders placed by customers that had a direct contractual account or
trading relationship with one or more of the Respondents (the “Direct Customers”), including orders
in securities traded in U.S. markets (“U.S. securities”), as well as securities traded in non-U.S.
markets (“non-U.S. securities”). As a result of this conduct, the Commission found that the
Respondents willfully violated Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange
Act”) and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and that Respondents G-Trade and CES willfully violated
Section 15(c)(1) of the Exchange Act. The Commission ordered the Respondents to pay
disgorgement of $79,802,448, prejudgment interest of $7,621,981 and a civil monetary penalty of
$20,000,000. The Order created a Fair Fund pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002, as amended. In accordance with the Order, ConvergEx Group, LLC on behalf of the

Respondents, paid a total of $107,424,429 into an escrow account. This amount, plus the
$2,011,889 arising from three related actions against additional respondents, 1 will constitute the
corpus of the Fair Fund from which funds may be withdrawn and distributed in accordance with
the Plan. The corpus may be increased prior to distribution by additional payments arising from
related actions against additional respondents that the Commission may order to be aggregated in
the Fair Fund.
2.
Scope of Distribution; Eligible Fair Fund Recipients.
The purpose of this
distribution is to refund a portion of the TP taken on orders placed by Respondents’ Direct
Customers between October 2, 2006 and December 31, 2011 (the “Relevant Period”). The
proposed distribution methodology, described in Section 9, provides full refunds of TP for orders
placed during the Relevant Period in U.S. securities and pro rata refunds of TP for orders in nonU.S. securities. Pursuant to this Plan, harmed customers are eligible to recover 100% of TP on
U.S. securities transactions and approximately 16% of TP on non-U.S. securities transactions. 2
The Order provides that the Fund Administrator will develop a distribution plan with the
assistance and cooperation of Respondents. The Order also provides that the Plan will include a
methodology to identify and compensate affected current and former Direct Customers of
Respondents and underlying intermediaries and beneficial owners of securities traded by Direct
Customers (“Indirect Customers”) from whom TP was taken during the Relevant Period. The
Order required Respondents to pay the amounts ordered no later than 10 days from the entry of the
Order. The Respondents tendered funds on December 17, 2013. This Plan sets forth the
methodology to be used in paying refunds of TP and requires Respondents to make refunds of TP
to Respondents’ Direct and Indirect Customers.
3. Fund Administrator. On December 17, 2014, the Commission issued an order
appointing The Garden City Group, Inc. as the Fund Administrator and setting the
administrator’s bond at $108,653,021, in accordance with Rule 1105 of the Commission’s Rules
on Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans. 3
The Fund Administrator will oversee efforts by the Respondents to assist in the
administration of this Plan. The Fund Administrator will also prepare accountings as provided in
Section 13, infra, and will cooperate with the Respondents in providing the information necessary
to accomplish income tax compliance.

1

The related actions to date are In the Matter of Jonathan Samuel Daspin, Administrative Proceeding File No. 315652 (Exchange Act Rel. No. 71126 (Dec. 18, 2013)); In the Matter of Thomas Lekargeren, Administrative
Proceeding File No. 3-15653 (Exchange Act Rel. No. 71127 (Dec. 18, 2013)); and Securities and Exchange
Commission v. Craig S. Lax, Civil Action No. 2:15-cv-01079-WHW-CLW (D.N.J.).
2

The estimated percentage recovery with respect to non-US securities transactions does not include TP paid by
Respondents to customers in other settlements.

3

Exchange Act Rel. No. 73865 (Dec. 17, 2014).

2

In administering the Fair Fund, the Fund Administrator will, among other things: (a)
build and maintain a case-specific database for Direct and Indirect Customers and their related
payment information; (b) establish and maintain a toll-free telephone call-in number by which
customers can obtain information about the Fair Fund; (c) establish and monitor an email inbox
for customers to contact the Fund Administrator; (d) design and maintain a website for the
administration of the Fair Fund, which will post information and relevant documents; and (e)
establish a link to such website from its own website, www.gcginc.com/cases. The Fair Fund
will be distributed pursuant to the distribution methodology outlined in Section 9 below.
4. No Notice or Claim Process. The identity of harmed Direct Customers and the amount
of TP taken from them during the Relevant Period will be determined from the books and records
of the Respondents. In connection therewith, the Fund Administrator will review the data
provided by Respondents and verify Respondents’ allocation of the Fair Fund in accordance with
the distribution methodology set forth in Section 9. Accordingly, the Fair Fund is not being
distributed according to a claims-made process.
5. Qualified Settlement Fund. The Fair Fund constitutes a Qualified Settlement Fund
(“QSF”) under Section 468B(g) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. § 468B(g), and related
regulations, 26 C.F.R. §§ 1.468B-1 through 1.468B-5.
6. Tax Compliance. Respondents will serve as the “administrator” of the QSF for tax
reporting and compliance purposes and may retain any professional services necessary or
appropriate. The costs and expenses of any such tax compliance responsibilities and professional
services, including information reporting, and the payment of any taxes, penalties, and interest due
will be borne by Respondents and will not be paid out of the Fair Fund. Payments to Respondents’
Direct and Indirect Customers will be made from the assets of the Fair Fund plus income it may
earn from the date of deposit to a date agreed upon between the Fund Administrator and
Respondents. Respondents shall calculate or shall cause to be calculated an estimated distributable
amount (“EDA”) which will allow for the payment of the Fair Fund’s withholding tax obligations.
The EDA will be the balance from which the payments to Respondents’ Direct and Indirect
Customers will be made. Any tax withholding required on any payment to a customer will be
deducted from the gross payment to be made to that customer and will not be separately funded by
Respondents. The Fund Administrator will provide such information and cooperation to
Respondents as may be reasonably necessary for the Respondents to accomplish their tax
reporting, withholding and compliance responsibilities.
7. Control of Distribution Fund. The Commission has jurisdiction and control of the Fair
Fund and will retain control of the assets of the Fair Fund until distribution checks are cashed or
distribution payments by wire are accepted. The assets of the Fair Fund have been deposited into
an escrow account at a bank and, consistent with the terms of the escrow agreement, may only be
disbursed in accordance with the written authorization of the Commission.
8. Expenses of Administration. All fees and expenses of administering the Plan will be
paid by the Respondents.
3

9. Distribution Methodology.
(a) Overview; Intent. The methodology set forth in this Section (the “Methodology”)
provides Respondents’ customers full refunds of TP on U.S. securities and pro rata refunds
of TP on non-U.S. securities. Customers will receive a payment in an amount equal to (i)
the TP on U.S. securities, (ii) a pro rata portion of the TP on non-U.S. securities, or, where
applicable, both (i) and (ii).
(b) De Minimis. Direct Customers whose calculated payment is less than $1,000 U.S.
will not receive a payment in the distribution, provided that no de minimis threshold will
apply to TP taken on orders originating from Respondents’ Global Transition Management
division. For any payments made to Indirect Customers, as described below, the de
minimis amount will be $50 US. 4
(c) Prior Refunds. In the event that Respondents have previously refunded TP to a Direct
Customer or Indirect Customer who would also be paid under the Plan, or have previously
made an irrevocable deposit into a QSF approved by a court of competent jurisdiction for
such purpose (including, but not limited to, payments made in United States of America v.
ConvergEx Global Markets Limited, 2:13-cr-00810-JLL (D.N.J.)), such payment will be
offset from whatever payment may otherwise have been made to the Direct Customer or
Indirect Customer, pursuant to the Plan’s Methodology. Respondents have agreed to
provide written evidence reasonably acceptable to the Fund Administrator of such previous
payment or deposit into a QSF.
(d)
Calculation. Respondents shall submit to the Fund Administrator an electronic
spreadsheet identifying each Direct Customer that will receive a payment, and information
sufficient for the Fund Administrator to calculate, in accordance with Section 9.e. below, a
payment amount for (i) the TP on U.S. securities, (ii) a pro rata portion of the TP on nonU.S. securities, or, where applicable, both (i) and (ii). Respondents shall prepare the
spreadsheet using information from their books and records and include the following
information for each customer: (i) the name of the customer; (ii) the order number
associated with each order; (iii) the total TP on U.S. securities; and (iv) the total TP on nonU.S. securities.

4

After a preliminary calculation of all payments, if the Fund Administrator, in consultation with the Commission
staff determines that the Indirect Customer de minimis threshold of $50 would, in the aggregate, exclude a
significant portion of the Indirect Customers otherwise eligible to participate in the distribution from receiving any
payment, the Commission staff may in its discretion direct the Fund Administrator to adjust the de minimis
threshold downward. An adjustment of the de minimis amount, if any, will be posted on the Information for
Harmed Investors page on the Commission’s website and the Fair Fund website for this Plan maintained by the
Fund Administrator.

4

(e) Pro Rata Methodology. Payments attributable to TP on non-U.S. securities will be
calculated for each customer by multiplying the TP on non-U.S. securities for that
customer by a pro rata percentage based on the funds remaining in the Fair Fund.
Respondents will calculate the pro rata percentage by subtracting (x) the aggregate amount
of TP on U.S. securities to be paid to all customers in the distribution, from (y) the EDA,
and then dividing the resulting difference by (z) the total amount of TP on non-U.S.
securities taken from all customers eligible to receive a payment in the distribution.
10. Outreach to Direct Customers. The Fund Administrator will make reasonable efforts to
obtain complete contact information for Direct Customers within 30 days of Plan approval. Within
45 days of receipt of such contact information, the Fund Administrator will send correspondence to
the Direct Customers to advise them of the distribution payment that they are eligible to receive
from the Fair Fund, pursuant to the Methodology outlined above in Section 9. This correspondence
will be approved by Commission staff in writing prior to its dissemination. The Fund Administrator
will request that Direct Customers respond within 30 days of the correspondence date and to
indicate where to send their payment, whether to the Direct Customer, or to the Indirect Customers;
Direct Customers that elect to receive payment will be provided with all relevant transaction
information about Indirect Customers and will be asked to provide the Fund Administrator with
instructions for electronic payment and any tax information that may be required for tax reporting.
Direct Customers that elect to have payment sent to the Indirect Customers will be asked to provide
contact information, and any other information deemed necessary by the Fund Administrator.
Where Direct Customers provide the Fund Administrator with contact information for
payment to their Indirect Customers, within 45 days of receipt of such contact information, the Fund
Administrator will send correspondence to the specified Indirect Customers to advise them of the
distribution payment that they are eligible to receive from the Fair Fund; the Fund Administrator
will provide the Indirect Customers with all relevant transaction information, and will request that
each Indirect Customer respond within 30 days and provide instructions for electronic payment and
any information that may be needed for tax reporting, and any other information deemed necessary
by the Fund Administrator.
In the event that a Direct Customer or Indirect Customer, as the case may be, does not
provide the Fund Administrator with complete and accurate instructions for electronic payment, that
Direct or Indirect Customer will be issued a check in the amount of the distribution payment,
together with subaccount information for allocating such payment among Indirect Customers, as
applicable.
11. Validation and Approval of Disbursement of the Fair Fund. The Fund Administrator
will disburse the Fair Fund in accordance with the Methodology, by issuing electronic payments
or by mailing checks. Before disbursement of the Fair Fund, the Fund Administrator, after
consultation with Commission staff, will validate the applicable calculations for the payments to
Direct or Indirect Customers, verifying that such amounts have been calculated in accordance with
the Plan and the Methodology, and will obtain authorization from the Commission to disburse the
Fair Fund pursuant to Rule 1101(b)(6) of the Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund and Disgorgement
5

Plans. Within 10 business days of the Commission issuing an Order to Disburse the Fair Fund, the
Fund Administrator will cause the payments to be distributed from the Fair Fund. The Fund
Administrator will notify Commission staff of any returned payments due to non-delivery,
insufficient addresses, and/or other deficiencies and will exercise reasonable efforts in good faith to
research and explain any errors that result in non-delivery. If requested by Commission staff, the
Fund Administrator will submit a calculation for payment of the returned items.
The Fund Administrator is also responsible for accounting for all payments in a form
acceptable to Commission staff. In the event that any distribution is in the form of a paper check
in lieu of an electronic transfer, each check will state on its face that it is valid for 90 days. After
90 days from the date on the distribution check, the Fund Administrator will notify Commission
staff of all uncashed checks. The Fund Administrator will cancel/void all outstanding payments
and, if applicable, return any tax withholding funds to the Fair Fund escrow account. The Fund
Administrator will account for all uncashed checks, and at the direction of Commission staff,
will make best efforts to contact payees of distribution checks that were not cashed and to locate
payees of checks returned as undeliverable to facilitate the acceptance of the payments, including
reissuance of checks when applicable.
12. Information Mailing to Accompany Payments. All payments will be accompanied by a
written communication that includes, as appropriate: (a) a statement characterizing the distribution;
(b) a description of the tax information reporting required of the QSF and related tax
consequences, if required; (c) a statement that checks will be void after 90 days; (d) contact
information for customers with questions; (e) the amount of payment that represents TP on orders in
U.S. securities; (f) the amount of payment that represents TP on orders in non-U.S. securities; and
(g) subaccount information for allocating such payment among Indirect Customers, as
applicable. The Fund Administrator will provide each Direct or Indirect Customer receiving a
refund of TP taken in connection with an order in non-U.S. securities with a written
communication stating the total amount of TP taken on transactions in non-U.S. securities. Any
such written communication will be submitted to Commission staff for review and written
approval. The written communication will clearly indicate that the money is being distributed from
a Fair Fund established by the Commission.
All payments made by the Fund Administrator in accordance with this Plan will be final
and not subject to appeal.
13. Progress Reports and Final Accounting. Within 20 days after the end of each calendar
quarter, the Fund Administrator will provide to Commission staff a progress report and a
quarterly account statement of all monies earned or received and all monies spent in connection
with the administration of the Plan, and the Fund Administrator will submit a final accounting to
Commission staff, both accountings in a format provided by the Commission staff. Commission
staff will review the final accounting and submit it for approval by the Commission prior to
termination of the Fair Fund and discharge of the Fund Administrator.

6

14. Amendments and Procedural Deadline Extensions. The Fund Administrator will take
reasonable and appropriate steps to cause the Fair Fund to be distributed according to this Plan.
Where the Fund Administrator deems necessary, the Fund Administrator, after consultation with and
written agreement from Commission staff, may implement immaterial changes to the Plan. If a
proposed change is deemed material by Commission staff, Commission approval will be required
prior to implementation by amending the Plan, which may be done upon the motion of any party,
the Fund Administrator, or upon the Commission’s own motion. For good cause shown, the
Commission staff may extend any of the procedural deadlines set forth in this Plan.
15. Assistance by Respondents. Respondents will assist the Fund Administrator and the
Commission staff by promptly providing requested information necessary for the administration
and implementation of the Plan.
16. Disposition of Undistributed Funds. After payments have been accepted and cashed,
any amounts remaining in the Fair Fund will constitute the Fair Fund residual (“Residual”). The
Residual may include distributions from checks that have not been cashed or from checks that
were not delivered or from funds returned to the Fund Administrator. In the event there is a
residual of undistributed Fair Fund funds that in the Commission staff’s view would warrant
consideration of an additional disbursement from the Fair Fund, the Commission may exercise
its discretion to enter an order for an additional distribution to investors who, after an initial
disbursement of the Fair Fund, and in accordance with the methodology set forth in Section 9,
remain eligible to receive additional funds. Otherwise, the Residual will be transferred to the U.S.
Treasury after the final accounting is approved by the Commission.
17. Termination of the Fair Fund. Upon completion of the distribution of the Fair Fund, the
Respondents will make arrangements for the final payment of taxes and filing the final tax returns,
and the Fund Administrator will provide a final accounting to Commission staff for submission to the
Commission. The Fair Fund will be eligible for termination, and the Fund Administrator will be
discharged, after all of the following have occurred: (a) a final accounting, in the accounting format
provided by the Commission staff, has been submitted by the Fund Administrator for approval of,
and has been approved by, the Commission; (b) all income taxes and other fees due and owing by the
Fair Fund have been paid by the Respondents; (c) all taxes withheld from distributions to customers
have been tendered to the appropriate tax agencies; (d) all expenses associated with the
administration of the Fair Fund have been paid by the Respondents; and (e) any amount remaining in
the Fair Fund has been received by the Commission. When the Commission has approved the final
accounting, the Commission staff will arrange for the transfer of any amount remaining in the Fair
Fund to the U.S. Treasury, and will seek an order from the Commission to approve the termination of
the Fair Fund and discharge the Fund Administrator. Upon the transfer of the Residual, if any, to the
U.S. Treasury, in accordance with Section 16, the Fund Administrator will shut down the website,
toll-free number and email inbox, and destroy all paper documents that have electronic duplicates.
The Fund Administrator will preserve all electronic and relevant paper copies of documents for six
years after its discharge, at which time it will provide the electronic and preserved paper copies of the
documents to Commission staff in accordance with the SEC’s Data Delivery Standards, which will
be provided upon request.
7

