UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77439 / March 24, 2016

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17179
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
PHILIP AKEL,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Philip Akel
(“Akel” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s
jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the findings contained in
Sections III.2. and III.3. below, and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative
Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings,
and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that
1.
Akel was a registered representative ("RR") at The Thornwater Company, L.P.
("Thornwater") from 2000 to 2002. Akel next was an RR at Sky Capital LLC (now known as
Granta Capital Group LLC) ("Sky Capital"), a New York-based broker-dealer, from 2002 to 2006.
Akel, 49 years old, is a resident of Millstone Township, New Jersey. Respondent participated in an
offering of Sky Capital’s affiliates stock, which was a penny stock.
2.
On September 16, 2014, Akel’s guilty plea was accepted in United States v. Philip
Akel, 09-cr-659 (S.D.N.Y.) , to a three count felony information including conspiracy to commit
securities fraud, mail fraud and wire fraud, in violation of 15 U.S.C. §§ 78j(b) and 78ff, and 17
C.F.R. § 240.10b-5; and 18 U.S.C. §§ 1341 and 1343; and securities fraud in violation of 15 U.S.C.
§§ 78j(b) and 78ff, and 17 C.F.R. § 240.10b-5. On September 16, 2014, a judgment in the criminal
case was entered against Akel. His co-conspirators were charged separately in U.S. v. Mandell, et
al., 09-cr-662 (SDNY) (PAC) and United States v. McKyle Clyburn, 09-cr-598 (SDNY) (PAC).
He was sentenced to time served and 2 years of supervised release. Akel was also ordered to make
restitution in the amount of $24,880,460 on a joint and several basis with his co-conspirators;
forfeiture of $50,000,000 on a joint and several basis with his co-conspirators; and a special
assessment of $300.
3.
The counts of the criminal information to which Akel pleaded guilty alleged, inter
alia, that from at least in or about the fall of 2000 through in or about August 2006, Akel and his
co-conspirators participated in a securities fraud scheme through Thornwater and Sky Capital. The
criminal information alleged that Akel and his co-conspirators carried out this scheme by soliciting
millions of dollars from investors under false pretenses, manipulating the market for certain
affiliated companies’ stocks, failing to use investors’ funds as promised, and misappropriating and
converting investors’ funds without their knowledge. The criminal information alleged that in
furtherance of this scheme, Akel and his co-conspirators used material misrepresentations and
omissions to cause individuals to invest in a series of purported investment opportunities, including
private placements. The criminal information also alleged that Akel and his co-conspirators
obtained millions from investors through their fraudulent scheme. The criminal information
further alleged that Akel and his co-conspirators used those funds to enrich themselves and to pay
undisclosed commissions to brokers.

2

IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Akel’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act,
that:
Respondent Akel be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer,
investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, or transfer agent.
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent Akel be, and hereby is barred from
participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder, consultant,
agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for purposes of the
issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the purchase or sale of
any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws and
regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

