SEC Charges Engineer and Former Employer with Bribe Scheme in Russia

March 3, 2016 – The Securities and Exchange Commission today charged an engineer with
violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) by scheming to bribe Russian government
officials and obtain drug approvals for his then-employer while secretly enriching himself. The
SEC also charged the company with lacking sufficient internal controls to detect and prevent the
scheme.
An SEC investigation found that Mikhail Gourevitch arranged improper payments from global
health science company Nordion Inc. to a third-party agent so that a portion of the funds could be
used to bribe Russian officials to approve the distribution of a liver cancer treatment called
TheraSphere. Gourevitch provided false documentation to Nordion to conceal the scheme, and
received $100,000 in kickbacks from the third-party agent.
Gourevitch, whose employment was terminated by Nordion, agreed to settle the charges by
paying $100,000 in disgorgement, $12,950 in prejudgment interest, and a $66,000 penalty.
Nordion, which traded on the New York Stock Exchange when the scheme occurred from 2004
to 2011, agreed to pay a $375,000 penalty to settle charges that it lacked internal accounting
controls and basic FCPA due diligence to prevent Gourevitch from conducting the scheme. The
SEC considered the company’s significant cooperation, self-reporting and remedial acts when
determining a settlement. Once Nordion discovered evidence of misconduct by Gourevitch, the
company self-reported to the SEC, cooperated extensively with the investigation, and took
immediate steps to remedy the problems. Nordion was ultimately unable to distribute
TheraSphere in Russia and thus earned no profits from the scheme.
Nordion and Gourevitch consented to SEC orders without admitting or denying the findings that
Nordion violated the books-and-records and internal accounting controls provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 while Gourevitch violated the anti-bribery, books-and-records,
and false records provisions.
The SEC’s investigation was conducted by Jennifer Moore, who works in the FCPA Unit out of
the agency’s Salt Lake office, under the supervision of Kara Brockmeyer. The SEC appreciates
the assistance of the U.S. Department of Justice’s Fraud Section, Federal Bureau of
Investigation, Royal Canadian Mounted Police, Financial and Capital Market Commission of
Latvia, Finantsinspektsioon Financial Supervision Authority of Estonia, Cyprus Securities and
Exchange Commission, British Virgin Islands Financial Services Commission, Liechtenstein
Federal Market Authority, and Financial Supervisory Authority of Finland.
See also:
•
•

SEC order against Mikhail Gourevitch
SEC order against Nordion (Canada) Inc.

