UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 74305 / February 19, 2015
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4026 / February 19, 2015
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 31459 / February 19, 2015
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-16389
In the Matter of

ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
AND CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS,
PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 15(b)(4), 15(b)(6),
AND 21C OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934, SECTION 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
AND SECTION 9(b) OF THE INVESTMENT
COMPANY ACT OF 1940, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL
SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-AND-DESIST
ORDER

VCAP Securities, LLC, and
Brett Thomas Graham,
Respondents.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted pursuant to Sections 15(b)(4) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(“Exchange Act”) against VCAP Securities, LLC (“VCAP”), and Sections 15(b)(6) and 21C of the
Exchange Act, Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”), and
Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”) against Brett
Thomas Graham (“Graham”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, VCAP and Graham (collectively,
“Respondents”) have submitted Offers of Settlement (“Offers”) which the Commission has

determined to accept. Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings
brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without
admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and
the subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in
Section V, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative and Ceaseand-Desist Proceedings, Pursuant to Sections 15(b)(4), 15(b)(6), and 21C of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and Section 9(b) of
the Investment Company Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a
Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds1 that:
Summary
1.
This matter involves a scheme by VCAP and Graham to acquire certain securities
from auctions of collateralized debt obligations (“CDOs”) that VCAP was conducting as
liquidation agent. VCAP and Graham’s actions in the auctions improperly benefitted funds
managed by Vertical Capital, LLC (“Vertical”), VCAP’s affiliated investment adviser. The
conduct involved Graham arranging for a separate broker-dealer (“Third-Party B-D”) to place bids
on behalf of Vertical in the CDO liquidations run by VCAP, as VCAP and its affiliates were not
permitted to bid under the terms of the relevant engagement agreements. As the liquidation agent
for the auctions, VCAP had access to confidential bidding information from other bidders. Taking
advantage of this access and information, Graham waited for the majority of the bids to come in
from the other auction participants, and then instructed Third-Party B-D to bid on the bonds
Graham wanted for Vertical-managed funds, at prices that were often slightly higher than the
highest bid from other participants. After winning the bonds in the auction, Third-Party B-D
would then immediately sell the bonds to the Vertical funds at a small markup.
2.
In the course of this conduct, Graham and VCAP made material misrepresentations
to the trustees of the various CDOs for which VCAP served as liquidation agent. Graham
executed, on behalf of VCAP, various engagement agreements in which he falsely represented that
VCAP and its affiliates would not bid in the auctions and would not misuse confidential
information and/or bidding information afforded to VCAP as the liquidation agent. At the time he
executed the final agreements, however, Graham had already communicated multiple times with
Third-Party B-D about submitting bids on behalf of Vertical. VCAP also provided the various
trustees with documents that did not disclose that its affiliate Vertical was the winning bidder.
3.
In addition, in one particular auction, Graham provided one non-affiliated bidder
with favorable treatment with respect to a security that that bidder was very interested in obtaining.
1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.
2

Although the sales person at the bidding entity told Graham that his traders were anxious to win
the bond, and that the bidder could increase its bid if necessary, Graham instead instructed him to
cut the bid in half. Graham neither sought permission from the trustee nor informed it about his
instructions to halve the bid. As a result, the trustee received half as much in proceeds for that
bond as it would have otherwise.
Respondents
4.
VCAP Securities, LLC (“VCAP”) is a broker-dealer registered with the
Commission. On December 24, 2014, it filed a Form BD-W. It was organized in Georgia, and
maintains its principal place of business in New York, New York. VCAP is over 99% indirectly
owned by Graham through a holding company called BD Partner Holdings, LLC. The economic
interest in and control over VCAP are shared by Graham and three other partners.
5.
Brett Thomas Graham (“Graham”) is currently the CEO of VCAP, and the
managing partner, Chief Investment Officer, and a portfolio manager of Vertical. He has no
disciplinary history. Graham indirectly owns over 99% of VCAP and 55.8% of Vertical, and has
an economic interest of 33% and a voting interest of 25% in each. He holds Series 7, 24, and 63
licenses. Graham is 51 years old, and a resident of New York, New York.
Other Relevant Entities
6.
Vertical Capital, LLC (“Vertical”) is a registered investment adviser. It is
organized in Delaware, and maintains its principal place of business in New York, New York.
Vertical is wholly owned by VCAP Partners LLC, which is 55.8% owned by Graham. The
economic interest in and control over Vertical are shared by Graham and the same three partners
that also share in the economic interest and control of VCAP.
Background
7.
This matter concerns five auctions that VCAP conducted as liquidation agent
during 2012. For each of these auctions, VCAP was hired to liquidate the assets of a CDO by the
respective CDO trustees. Prior to each liquidation, VCAP entered into an agreement with the
trustee governing the terms of VCAP’s role as liquidation agent. As the CEO of VCAP, Graham
had the primary responsibility for reviewing and executing these agreements on behalf of VCAP.
8.
During the relevant time period, Graham was a portfolio manager and the chief
investment officer of Vertical, a registered investment adviser and asset manager. The main focus
of Vertical’s investment management activities has been two private funds: Resolution Credit
Opportunities Fund I, which was formed in the fall of 2009, and Resolution Credit Opportunities
Fund II, which was formed in late 2011 (collectively, the “Funds”). In addition, during the
relevant time period, Vertical served as the investment manager for four separately managed
accounts (collectively, the “SMAs”).

3

Vertical Bidding in VCAP-Run Liquidations
9.
Since their inception, Vertical’s Funds and SMAs have generally invested in
illiquid, non-agency mortgage-backed securities. Graham has been principally responsible for
these investment decisions. These same types of securities were often included in the CDOs that
VCAP was hired to liquidate.
10.
Graham knew or was reckless in not knowing that VCAP and its affiliates could not
bid in a liquidation for which VCAP served as liquidation agent. The liquidation agent agreements
that Graham signed as CEO on behalf of VCAP for each of the five CDO liquidations all
prohibited VCAP or its affiliates from bidding in the liquidations, and required VCAP to keep the
bidding information it received confidential during the auction. One of the agreements also
expressly prohibited giving preferential or favorable treatment to any bidder.
11.
In addition to the prohibitions in the liquidation agent agreements, VCAP’s own
compliance manual also prohibited bidding by VCAP and its affiliates. The VCAP compliance
manual, dated December 19, 2011, provided, among other things, the following:
Possible Conflicts of Interest
To prevent even the appearance of any conflict of interest, VCAP and
its affiliates and employees will not bid in an auction liquidation run by
VCAP.
VCAP’s compliance manual was provided to each employee of VCAP on at least an annual basis.
12.
To carry out his plan to have Vertical bid in VCAP-run auctions, Graham contacted
an individual that he had worked with previously (“Broker”), who currently worked at Third-Party
B-D, which was based in the United Kingdom. Graham never consulted with counsel or with
VCAP’s chief compliance officer to discuss the permissibility of the arrangement. Nor did
Graham or anyone else at VCAP discuss with any of the CDO trustees that hired VCAP whether
Vertical could bid in the VCAP-run auctions through Third-Party B-D.
13.
Before the first liquidation in which Third-Party B-D bid on behalf of Vertical,
Broker asked Graham whether the trustee was aware of the arrangement. Broker asked, “[W]ill the
seller know or care that a B/D maybe be [sic] biddin for some of your funds?” To which, Graham
responded, “[N]o…Auction, so high bid wins. Auction was published in WSJ.” Broker
understood Graham’s response to mean that the arrangement was permissible.
14.
A few weeks thereafter, Broker inquired a second time about the permissibility of
the arrangement. Broker asked, “[Third-Party B-D’s compliance] understands the confidentiality
issue and why you are in the middle, but wants to confirm therefore your seller allows your funds
to bid in the bwic, for us to facilitate…”2 Graham responded, “[Y]es,” even though Graham had
never asked any of the CDO trustees whether this arrangement was permissible.
2

The term “bwic” means, “bid wanted in competition.”
4

15.
Graham generally followed the same pattern with respect to each of the five CDO
liquidations in which he had Third-Party B-D bid on behalf of Vertical. Graham generally waited
until he had received the majority of the bids from the other auction participants, and then would
tell Third-Party B-D which bonds in the CDO liquidation to bid on and at what price. Having
access to the other auction participants’ bids, Graham was able to, and in several instances did,
give bid prices to Third-Party B-D that were slightly higher than the highest bid from the other
bidders. This conduct is illustrated in Table 1 below, which shows the time and amounts for some
of Vertical’s bids through Third-Party B-D in an auction list from one of the five CDO liquidations
at issue.
TABLE 1
Bidder
Bidder A1
Third-Party B-D

Bid
8.0781
8.5000

Time
2:24 p.m.
2:58 p.m.

Bond B

Bidder B1
Third-Party B-D

3.0156
3.2500

2:24 p.m.
2:59 p.m.

Bond C

Bidder C1
Third-Party B-D

7.59375
7.75000

2:23 p.m.
3:04 p.m.

Bond A

As demonstrated above, Third-Party B-D bid after the other auction participants’ bids were
received by VCAP. In addition, Third-Party B-D’s bids were often slightly higher than the high
bid from the other auction participants, ensuring that Vertical would win the bonds Graham wanted
but not pay too much.
16.
After receiving instructions from Graham, Third-Party B-D would then submit the
bids in the same manner as all of the other auction participants. However, unbeknownst to the
trustees, Third-Party B-D was bidding on behalf of Vertical. Third-Party B-D was usually the last,
or one of the last, participants to submit its initial bids in the auction.
17.
At times, another auction participant would submit or improve a bid after Graham
had given his instructions to Third-Party B-D. If a later bid was higher than Third-Party B-D’s bid
for a bond that Graham was interested in winning, Graham at times instructed Third-Party B-D to
resubmit its bid at an amount higher than that other bid. This conduct is illustrated in Table 2
below, which shows some of Third-Party B-D’s bids for another list in one of the five CDO
liquidations at issue. On this list, Graham instructed Third-Party B-D to resubmit bids in several
instances, in order to top subsequent higher bids from other auction participants.

5

TABLE 2
Bidder
Third-Party B-D
Bidder A1
Third-Party B-D

Bid
42.01
45
45.15

Time
11:25 a.m.
11:33 a.m.
12:01 p.m.

Bond B

Bidder B1
Third-Party B-D
Bidder B2
Third-Party B-D

43.03125
43.25
43.375
43.45

10:48 a.m.
11:30 a.m.
12:10 p.m.
12:20 p.m.

Bond C

Third-Party B-D
Bidder C1
Third-Party B-D

34.01
34.53125
34.625

11:23 a.m.
11:29 a.m.
11:50 a.m.

Bond A

18.
In one particular instance, Graham instructed Third-Party B-D to resubmit its bid
for a lower amount because Graham subsequently received bidding information indicating that the
next high bid for that particular bond had decreased. Thus, he knew that Third-Party B-D could
win the bond for less than what it had initially bid. This is illustrated in Table 3 below.
TABLE 3

Bond X

Bidder
Third-Party B-D
Bidder X1
Third-Party B-D

Bid
28.50
24.00
24.50

Time
11:21 a.m.
12:00 p.m.
12:09 p.m.

19.
Immediately after each auction, Vertical’s Funds and SMAs purchased from ThirdParty B-D any of the bonds that Third-Party B-D won in the auction, in allocations designated by
Graham and at a slight mark-up as determined by Graham.
20.
At the conclusion of the auction for each list, VCAP sent an e-mail to the trustee
attaching a spreadsheet listing the winner and second highest bid for each bond, as well as listing
each participant and their final bids. This was the manner in which VCAP communicated the bids
to the trustee, and requested the trustee’s approval for awarding the winners. Graham never told
the trustee that Third-Party B-D was bidding on behalf of Vertical, nor did he inform the trustee
that he was using pricing information from other bids to determine the amount of the bid price for
Third-Party B-D.
21.
Overall, Vertical’s Funds and SMAs acquired 23 securities, paying nearly $12
million, through the 5 CDO liquidations by placing prohibited bids. In total, VCAP received
6

$1,182,839 in fees from the CDO trustees for conducting the 5 liquidations, and Graham
personally received 10% of this amount, approximately $120,000, for originating the business.
VCAP Gives An Auction Participant Preferential Treatment
22.
During the course of a CDO liquidation for which VCAP was the liquidation agent,
Graham gave preferential treatment to one auction participant (“Preferred Participant”) that
resulted in lower proceeds to the trustee.
23.
After the start of the auction, the sales person at Preferred Participant (“Salesman”)
who was responsible for covering Vertical, sent a Bloomberg instant message to inform Graham
that Preferred Participant was especially interested in winning a particular bond. Salesman
messaged Graham that the bond was very important to Preferred Participant, and asked Graham to
let him know where Preferred Participant needed to be in order to win, indicating that Preferred
Participant would be willing to bid higher if necessary. Graham, seeing that the other bids for that
particular bond were just fractions of Preferred Participant’s bid, responded to Salesman and told
him to cut Preferred Participant’s bid in half.
24.
Preferred Participant thereafter changed its bid for the bond to half of its original
bid, and resubmitted the bid. Preferred Participant won the bond at the reduced price, which was
about 10 points higher than the next highest bid.
25.
Prior to instructing Preferred Participant to cut its bid in half, Graham did not seek
permission from the trustee of the CDO that was being liquidated. Graham also never informed
the trustee that it was receiving half of what it would have otherwise received for the bond, had
Graham not instructed Preferred Participant to cut its bid in half.
26.
As a result of the conduct described above, VCAP willfully violated Section 10(b)
of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which make it unlawful, in connection with the
purchase or sale of any security, to employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud; or to make
any untrue statement of a material fact or to omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make
the statements made, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not
misleading; or to engage in any act, practice, or course of business which operates or would
operate as a fraud or deceit upon any person.
27.
As a result of the conduct described above, Graham willfully violated Section 10(b)
of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which make it unlawful, in connection with the
purchase or sale of any security, to employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud; or to make
any untrue statement of a material fact or to omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make
the statements made, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not
misleading; or to engage in any act, practice, or course of business which operates or would
operate as a fraud or deceit upon any person.

7

Civil Penalties
28.
VCAP has submitted a sworn Statement of Financial Condition dated November
21, 2014, and other evidence and has asserted its inability to pay a civil penalty.
Undertakings
29.
Graham has undertaken to provide written certification, signed by Graham under
penalty of perjury, that he is in compliance with item IV.C. below. Such certification must be
provided to the Commission staff every ninety days from the date of entry of this Order, for a
period of one year thereafter.
30.
Graham has undertaken to retain, not at the Commission’s expense, a qualified
independent consultant (the “Consultant”) not unacceptable to the Commission staff to do the
following:
a.

Provide a memorandum that is to be distributed to all employees and
partners of Vertical prior to or by the date of entry of this Order: (i)
outlining the parameters of Graham’s limited role in Vertical, as specified in
item IV.C. below, and (ii) giving instructions that each employee and
partner of Vertical must strictly comply with the terms of such limited role
by Graham.

b.

Provide training to all Vertical employees and partners regarding the
limitations and restrictions placed on Graham’s conduct with respect to
Vertical, as specified in item IV.C. below.

c.

Submit a report concerning Graham’s compliance with the terms of item
IV.C. below, to the Commission staff every ninety days from the date of
entry of this Order, for a period of one year thereafter. In connection with
the preparation of such reports, and to confirm that Graham is in compliance
with item IV.C. below, Consultant will, at least: (i) conduct a review of all
e-mail communications and instant messages to or from Graham, and (ii)
interview Graham and the employees and partners of Vertical about
Graham’s activities.

d.

Establish an e-mail hotline for Vertical employees and partners to report any
potential violations of Graham’s limited role with Vertical, as specified in
item IV.C. below. Consultant will investigate any reports of potential
violations, and disclose any such reports or investigations in its periodic
reports to the Commission staff.

e.

Require Consultant to enter into an agreement that provides that for the
period of engagement and for a period of two years from completion of
8

the engagement, Consultant shall not enter into any employment,
consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with
Vertical, or any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers,
employees, or agents acting in their capacity. The agreement will also
provide that Consultant will require that any firm with which he/she is
affiliated or of which he/she is a member, and any person engaged to assist
Consultant in performance of its duties under this Order shall not, without
prior written consent of the Commission staff, enter into any employment,
consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with
Vertical, or any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers,
employees, or agents acting in their capacity as such for the period of the
engagement and for a period of two years after the engagement.
31.
Graham shall certify, in writing, compliance with the undertakings set forth above
in items 30 and 31. The certification shall identify the undertakings, provide written evidence of
compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits sufficient to demonstrate
compliance. The Commission staff may make reasonable requests for further evidence of
compliance, and Graham agrees to provide such evidence. The certification and supporting
material shall be submitted to Andrew Sporkin, with a copy to the Office of Chief Counsel of the
Enforcement Division, no later than sixty (60) days from the date of the completion of the
undertakings.
32.
In determining whether to accept the Offers, the Commission has considered these
undertakings.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondents’ Offers.
Accordingly, pursuant to Sections 15(b)(4), 15(b)(6), and 21C of the Exchange Act,
Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act, and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act, it is hereby
ORDERED that:
A.
VCAP cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future
violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.
B.
Graham cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future
violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.
C.
Graham be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer,
investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally
recognized statistical rating organization; prohibited from serving or acting as an employee, officer,
director, member of an advisory board, investment adviser or depositor of, or principal underwriter
9

for, a registered investment company or affiliated person of such investment adviser, depositor, or
principal underwriter; and barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including:
acting as a promoter, finder, consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a
broker, dealer or issuer for purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or
attempting to induce the purchase or sale of any penny stock; with the right to apply for reentry
after three years to the appropriate self-regulatory organization, or if there is none, to the
Commission;
a. provided however, that Graham may, for a period of one year from the entry of
this Order, continue to be employed by Vertical solely for the purpose of
assisting Vertical in the sale, or transfer to independent managers, of securities
and positions held by any funds or accounts managed by Vertical, as of the date
of the entry of this Order. During the one-year carve-out period, all sales by
Graham shall be subject to review and approval by Vertical prior to execution.
During this one-year period of limited employment at Vertical, Graham may not
carry out his employment activities on the premises of Vertical, and he must be
located offsite from Vertical. Notwithstanding this limited employment role, the
following restrictions will be placed upon Graham as of the date of the entry of
this Order: (i) Graham may not serve on Vertical’s Board of Directors, or in any
officer, executive, or management role at Vertical; (ii) Other than for the limited
purpose of selling securities and positions held by any funds or accounts
managed by Vertical, as of the date of the entry of this Order, Graham may not
have any role, input, authority, duties, or discussions as to the management of
Vertical, any entity affiliated with Vertical, or any of Vertical’s clients; (iii)
Graham may not have any role in formulating, summarizing, discussing, or
memorializing Vertical’s marketing or management strategy; (iv) Graham may
not have any authority to hire or fire employees of Vertical, or to negotiate or
bind Vertical in any contracts; (v) Graham may not have any contact with
current or prospective investors in any funds or accounts managed by Vertical
regarding anything concerning Vertical or VCAP (other than current and former
employees of Vertical who are also Vertical investors); (vi) Graham may not
solicit capital on behalf of Vertical; (vii) Graham may not participate, consult, or
assist with any purchase of securities; and (viii) Graham may not participate,
consult, or assist with any sales of assets or positions that were purchased or
acquired after the date of entry of this Order. Nothing herein shall prevent
Graham from communicating with Vertical partners and counsel regarding any
outstanding legal actions in which Vertical is a party.
D.

VCAP is censured.

E.
Any reapplication for association by Graham will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against Graham, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
10

waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
F.
VCAP shall, within ten (10) days of the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement of
$1,064,555 and prejudgment interest of $85,044 to the Securities and Exchange Commission. If
timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600.
Payment must be made in one of the following ways: (1) Respondent may transmit payment
electronically to the Commission, which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions
upon request; (2) Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through
the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or (3) Respondent may pay by
certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States postal money order, made payable to the
Securities and Exchange Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:
Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying VCAP as a
Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover
letter and check or money order must be sent to Andrew Sporkin, Division of Enforcement,
Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., NE, Washington, DC 20549-6013.
G.
Based upon VCAP’s sworn representations in its Statement of Financial Condition
dated November 21, 2014, and other documents submitted to the Commission, the Commission is
not imposing a penalty against VCAP.
H.
Graham shall, within ten (10) days of the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement of
$118,284, prejudgment interest of $9,449, and a civil money penalty in the amount of $200,000 to
the Securities and Exchange Commission. If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall
accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600 or 31 USC §3717. Payment must be made in one of
the following ways: (1) Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission,
which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request; (2) Respondent may
make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through the SEC website at
http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or (3) Respondent may pay by certified check, bank
cashier’s check, or United States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:
Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
11

HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying Graham as a
Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover
letter and check or money order must be sent to Andrew Sporkin, Division of Enforcement,
Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., NE, Washington, DC 20549-6013.
I.
The Division of Enforcement (“Division”) may, at any time following the entry of
this Order, petition the Commission to: (1) reopen this matter to consider whether VCAP provided
accurate and complete financial information at the time such representations were made; and (2)
seek an order directing payment of disgorgement and pre-judgment interest, and/or the maximum
civil penalty allowable under the law. No other issue shall be considered in connection with this
petition other than whether the financial information provided by VCAP was fraudulent,
misleading, inaccurate, or incomplete in any material respect. VCAP may not, by way of defense
to any such petition: (1) contest the findings in this Order; (2) assert that payment of disgorgement
and interest, or a penalty should not be ordered; (3) contest the amount of disgorgement and
interest to be ordered; (4) contest the imposition of the maximum penalty allowable under the law;
or (5) assert any defense to liability or remedy, including, but not limited to, any statute of
limitations defense.
J.
Pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended by the
Dodd-Frank Act, a Fair Fund is created for the disgorgement, interest and penalties referenced in
paragraphs F and H above. Regardless of whether any such Fair Fund distribution is made,
amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be treated as
penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To preserve the
deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Graham agrees that in any Related Investor Action, he shall not
argue that he is entitled to, nor shall he benefit by, offset or reduction of any award of
compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Graham’s payment of a civil penalty in this
action (“Penalty Offset”). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty Offset,
Graham agrees that he shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty Offset,
notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to the
Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil
penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty imposed in this
proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” means a private damages
action brought against Respondents by or on behalf of one or more investors based on substantially
the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this proceeding.
K.
Graham shall comply with the undertakings enumerated in Section III, items 29
through 31 above.

12

V.
It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by
Graham, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other
amounts due by Graham under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree or
settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by
Graham of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set forth
in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19).

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

13

