SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
(Release No. 34-77406; File No. 10-222)
March 18, 2016
Investors’ Exchange LLC; Notice of Filing of Amendment Nos. 2, 3, and 4 to, and Order Instituting
Proceedings to Determine Whether to Grant or Deny, and Notice of Designation of Longer Period
for Commission Action on Proceedings to Determine Whether to Grant or Deny, an Application
for Registration as a National Securities Exchange Under Section 6 of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as Modified by Amendment Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 4 Thereto
I.

Introduction
On August 21, 2015, Investors’ Exchange LLC (“IEX” or “IEX Exchange”) submitted to

the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) a Form 1 application (“Form 1”),
seeking registration as a national securities exchange pursuant to Section 6 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Act”). 1 IEX amended its Form 1 four times, including its most recent
amendment on March 7, 2016. The Commission is required to review the exchange registration
application, as amended, together with all comments received, and make a determination
whether to grant the registration. 2
On September 9, 2015, IEX submitted Amendment No. 1 to its Form 1. 3 Notice of the
application, as amended, was published for comment in the Federal Register on September 22,

1

15 U.S.C. 78f.

2

See 15 U.S.C. 78f and 15 U.S.C. 78s.

3

In Amendment No. 1, IEX submitted updated portions of its Form 1, including revised
exhibits, a revised version of the proposed IEX Rule Book, and revised Addenda C-2, C3, C-4, D-1, D-2, F-1, F-2, F-3, F-4, F-5, F-6, F-7, F-8, F-9, F-10, F-11, F-12, and F-13.

2015. 4 IEX submitted several responses to comments. 5 On December 18, 2015, IEX consented
to an extension of time to March 21, 2016 for Commission consideration of its Form 1. 6 IEX
submitted a second amendment to its Form 1 on February 29, 2016 that proposes to make
functional changes to its outbound router, which had been the subject of extensive public
comment as originally proposed. 7 IEX submitted a third amendment to its Form 1 on March 4,
2016. 8 IEX submitted a fourth amendment to its Form 1 on March 7, 2016. 9
Section 19(a)(1) of the Act 10 requires the Commission, within ninety days of the date of
publication of notice of an application for registration as a national securities exchange, or such
4

See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 75925 (September 15, 2015), 80 FR 57261
(“Notice”).

5

See Letter from Sophia Lee, General Counsel, IEX, to Brent J. Fields, Secretary,
Commission, dated November 13, 2015 (“IEX First Response”); Letter from Sophia Lee,
General Counsel, IEX, to Brent J. Fields, Secretary, Commission, dated November 23,
2015 (“IEX Second Response”); Letter from Sophia Lee, General Counsel, IEX, to Brent
J. Fields, Secretary, Commission, dated February 9, 2016 (“IEX Third Response”); Letter
from Donald Bollerman, Head of Markets and Sales, IEX Group, Inc., to File No. 10222, dated February 16, 2016 (“IEX Fourth Response”); and Letter from IEX Group,
Inc., to File No. 10-222, dated February 19, 2016 (“IEX Fifth Response”).

6

See Letter from Sophia Lee, General Counsel, IEX, to Brent J. Fields, Secretary,
Commission, dated December 18, 2015.

7

In Amendment No. 2, IEX proposed changes to its Form 1 to, among other things,
redesign its outbound routing functionality to direct routable orders first to the IEX
routing logic instead of directly to the IEX matching engine. See Letter from Sophia Lee,
General Counsel, IEX, to Brent J. Fields, Secretary, Commission, dated February 29,
2016, at 1. In this manner, the IEX router would “interact with the IEX matching system
over a 350 microsecond speed-bump in the same way an independent third party broker
would be subject to a speed bump.” Id.

8

In Amendment No. 3, IEX proposed changes to its Form 1 to clarify and correct revisions
to its rulebook that it made in Amendment No. 2. See Letter from Sophia Lee, General
Counsel, IEX, to Brent J. Fields, Secretary, Commission, dated March 4, 2016.

9

In Amendment No. 4, IEX proposed changes to its Form 1 to update Exhibit E to reflect
changes it proposed in Amendment No. 2. See Letter from Sophia Lee, General Counsel,
IEX, to Brent J. Fields, Secretary, Commission, dated March 7, 2016.

10

15 U.S.C. 78s(a)(1).

2

longer period as to which the applicant consents, 11 to, by order, grant such registration 12 or
institute proceedings to determine whether such registration should be denied. 13 This order is
providing public notice of the significant changes in Amendment Nos. 2, 3, and 4 to IEX’s Form
1 and soliciting comment on the Form 1 as amended, while simultaneously instituting
proceedings under Section 19(a)(1)(B) of the Act 14 to determine whether to grant or deny IEX’s
exchange registration application, as amended.
Section 19(a)(1)(B) of the Act 15 further provides that such proceedings shall be
concluded within one hundred eighty days of the date of publication of notice of the filing of the
registration application. Under Section 19(a)(1)(B), the Commission may, however, extend the
time for conclusion of such proceedings for up to ninety days if it finds good cause for such
extension and publishes its reasons for so finding. As discussed below, the Commission believes
that there is good cause for a ninety-day extension of these proceedings, and is therefore
designating June 18, 2016 as the date by which the Commission shall determine whether to grant
or deny IEX’s Form 1 for registration as a national securities exchange.
The Commission received over 430 comment letters on IEX’s Form 1, many focused on
IEX’s proposed trading rules and system. 16 Many commenters supported IEX’s application. 17

11

See supra note 6 and accompanying text (noting that IEX provided the Commission with
an extension of time until March 21, 2016).

12

15 U.S.C. 78s(a)(1)(A).

13

15 U.S.C. 78s(a)(1)(B).

14

15 U.S.C. 78s(a)(1)(B).

15

15 U.S.C. 78s(a)(1)(B).

16

The public comment file for IEX’s Form 1 (File No. 10-222) is available on the
Commission’s website at: http://www.sec.gov/comments/10-222/10-222.shtml.

17

See, e.g., Verret Letter; Shatto Letters 1, 2, and 3; Simonelis Letter; Leuchtkafer First
Letter; Leuchtkafer Second Letter; Capital Group Letter; Southeastern Letter; Navari

3

Other commenters either opposed IEX’s application or questioned whether certain proposed
elements of IEX’s trading system would be consistent with the requirements of the Act
applicable to a registered national securities exchange. 18
Among the commenters who supported IEX’s exchange registration, several argued that
IEX would offer a market solution to address certain market inefficiencies and conflicts of
interest in a manner that may protect the interests of buy-side investors. 19 In particular, some
commenters noted IEX’s decision not to pursue “maker-taker” pricing and instead offer flat

First Letter; Navari Second Letter; DV Advisors Letter; Cowen Letter; Themis First
Letter; Themis Second Letter; Oppenheimer Funds Letter; Murphy Letter; Birch Bay
Letter; Healthy Markets Letter; Keblish Letter; Bowcott Letter; Secrist Letter; Stevens
Letter; Oltean Letter; Park Letter; Crespo Letter; Hovanec Letter; Meskill Letter; Brian S.
Letter; Glennon Letter; Shaw Letter; Upson Letter; Goldman Sachs Letter; Robeson
Letter; Lynch Letter; Budish Letter; Chen & Foley Letter; Liquidnet Letter; T. Rowe
Price Letter.
18

See, e.g., BATS First Letter; BATS Second Letter; NYSE First Letter; NASDAQ First
Letter; NASDAQ Second Letter; Citadel First Letter; Citadel Second Letter; Citadel
Third Letter; Citadel Fourth Letter; FIA First Letter; Hudson River Trading First Letter;
Hudson River Trading Second Letter; Anonymous First Letter; Hunsacker Letter;
Modern Markets Initiative Letter; Tabb Letter; Weldon Letter; Markit First Letter; Markit
Second Letter; Direct Match Letter; Duffy Letter; Scott Letter.

19

See, e.g., Capital Group Letter at 1 (noting the “technologies and practices to discourage
predatory behavior” including the “350 microsecond buffer,” the lack of maker-taker
pricing, and “simple order types”); Southeastern Letter (submitted on behalf of a group of
undersigned asset managers) (complimenting IEX’s proposed benefits to investors in
“reducing structural inefficiencies in the market, and offering a more balanced and
simplified market design”); Navari First Letter at 1 (noting certain features that “have
great promise for the [r]etail [i]nvestor”); DV Advisors Letter; Cowen Letter; Themis
First Letter (noting that IEX’s “unconflicted investor-friendly alternative” will “employ
technology designed to even playing fields, rather than exploit information asymmetry,”
that IEX will be “a stark alternative to other stock exchange models that seem to be more
focused on selling speed and data,” and that as an alternative trading system, IEX allowed
it and its customers “to achieve best execution”); Oppenheimer Funds Letter; Murphy
Letter (arguing that IEX’s design should “help to limit and even eliminate the electronic
front running that is central to the problems in the market today”); Keblish Letter; Secrist
Letter; Stevens Letter; Oltean Letter; Meskill Letter; fi360 Letter; TRS Letter; Lynch
Letter; Jefferies Letter; T. Rowe Price Letter; Liquidnet Letter.

4

transaction fees. 20 Some commenters praised IEX for offering fewer order types. 21 Several
commenters highlighted IEX’s “coil” delay (frequently referred to as IEX’s “speed bump”),
discussed in detail below, and asserted that it may help counter latency arbitrage. 22 Some
commenters questioned the motive of certain commenters who opposed the proposal. 23 In
addition, one commenter argued that the coil delay should not be grounds for denying IEX’s
exchange application, and suggested that IEX be phased into the national market system under a

20

See, e.g., Capital Group Letter; Southeastern Letter; Navari First Letter; Navari Second
Letter; Themis Letter 1; Oppenheimer Funds Letter; Healthy Markets Letter; Abel/Noser
Letter; Goldman Sachs Letter; Liquidnet Letter; Franklin Templeton Investments Letter;
TRS Letter. The Commission notes, however, that fees are not actually part of IEX’s
Form 1. Rather, if IEX were to be approved as an exchange, it would need to submit
separate filings under Section 19(b) of the Act to establish fees that it would charge to
members and others using its facilities. Nevertheless, in its Second Response Letter, IEX
noted that, as an exchange, it would intend to charge a flat transaction fee. See IEX
Second Response at 9.

21

See, e.g., Capital Group Letter; Southeastern Letter; Shatto First Letter; Navari First
Letter; Oppenheimer Funds Letter; Healthy Markets Letter; Norges Bank Letter; Burgess
Letter; fi360 Letter; TRS Letter. But see NYSE First Letter at 9 (arguing that IEX’s
proposed menu of order types is not necessarily “simple” and the potential different
combinations of instructions for limit orders is in the hundreds).

22

See, e.g., T. Rowe Price Letter at 1-2; Navari Second Letter; Healthy Markets Letter at 24; Jefferies Letter at 3; Chen & Foley Letter at 2-3; Leuchtkafer Second Letter at 9;
Budish Letter at 4. See also Burgess Letter; Capital Group Letter; Franklin Templeton
Investments Letter; Michael Schroeder Letter; Leeson Letter; Lupinski Letter; Oorjitham
Letter; Eric K Letter; Grey Letter; Spear Letter; Baggins Letter; Nixon Letter; Campbell
Letter; Moses Letter; Huff Letter; Kaye Letter; Jean Letter; Gloy Letter; Givehchi Letter;
Kara Letter; Hiester Letter; Benites Letter; Eustace Letter; Ramirez Letter; Luce Letter;
Arnold Letter; Tidwell Letter; Doyle Letter; Long Letter; Kim Letter; Mannheim Letter;
Oppenheimer Funds Letter.

23

See, e.g., Verret Letter at 2 (arguing that “incumbent firms have long sought to utilize
regulatory barriers to entry to minimize competition, and it would appear a number of
firms are presently using the regulatory comment process regarding IEX’s application as
a venue to replicate that strategy here”); Crespo Letter; Brian S. Letter.

5

pilot program so that the effect of IEX’s access delay on the wider market could be better
assessed. 24
Among the commenters who were critical of aspects of IEX’s proposal, most focused on
issues surrounding IEX’s coil delay, IEX’s affiliated outbound router and what they viewed as an
unfair advantage to bypass the outbound coil delay, and IEX’s proposed order types. 25 Other
commenters did not express a view on whether the Commission should grant or deny IEX’s
application. 26
II.

Description of IEX’s Trading System
IEX, which currently operates a trading platform as an alternative trading system

(“ATS”), is seeking to register as a national securities exchange. Below is a brief description of
the proposed IEX exchange trading platform, including the new aspects of the system concerning
the router functionality where noted. 27
Order Execution. Non-marketable orders submitted to IEX would be displayed or nondisplayed, depending on the instructions indicated by the IEX member submitting the order. 28
24

See Angel Letter at 3-5. The pilot program suggested by this commenter would be to
measure the effect on the market of protecting IEX’s quotation notwithstanding the
“speed bump.” See id. at 4-5. According to the commenter, if the pilot caused material
harm, it could be halted, in which case IEX could still operate as an exchange but without
having its quotes protected under Regulation NMS. See id. at 5. See also Wolfe Letter at
3 (agreeing with the pilot approach suggested in the Angel Letter).

25

See, e.g., NYSE First Letter; NASDAQ First Letter; BATS First Letter; Citadel First
Letter; Citadel Second Letter; Citadel Third Letter; Hudson River Trading First Letter;
Hudson River Trading Second Letter; FIA First Letter.

26

See, e.g., Virtu Letter; Healthy Markets Letter; Tabb Letter; Aesthetic Integration Letter.

27

For more detail on IEX’s proposed trading system, see IEX’s Form 1 and Exhibits, as
amended (in particular Exhibits B (the proposed rulebook) and E (a narrative description
of the proposed operation of IEX as an exchange)), which are available on the
Commission’s website at http://www.sec.gov/rules/other/otherarchive/other2015.shtml.

28

See Proposed IEX Rule 11.220(a)(1).

6

IEX would direct an order (or any portion thereof) that it could not execute on IEX to away
markets for execution through IEX Services LLC (“IEXS”), IEX’s wholly owned single-purpose
outbound router, unless the terms of the order direct IEX not to route such order away. 29
IEX proposed several pegged order types – primary peg, midpoint peg, and discretionary
peg – all of which would be non-displayed with prices that are automatically adjusted by the IEX
system in response to changes in the national best bid and offer (“NBBO”) (subject to a limit
price, if any). 30 As noted below, it is these types of dark pegged orders – and not standard
market or limit orders, or displayed quotes or orders – that would be affected by the proposed
coil delay.
Access and the Coil Delay. Only broker-dealer members of IEX and entities that enter
into market access arrangements with members (collectively, “Users”) would have access to the
IEX system. 31 Users would connect to IEX through a single Point-of-Presence (“POP”) located
in Secaucus, New Jersey. 32 After entering through the POP, a User’s electronic message sent to
the IEX trading system would traverse the IEX “coil,” which is a box of compactly coiled optical
fiber cable equivalent to a prescribed physical distance of 61,625 meters (approximately 38
miles). 33 After exiting the coil, the User’s message would travel an additional physical distance
to the IEX trading system, located in Weehawken, New Jersey. 34 According to IEX, the coil,
when combined with the physical distance between the POP and the IEX trading system
29

See Proposed IEX Rule 11.230(b). See also Amendment Nos. 2 and 3.

30

See Proposed IEX Rule 11.190(a)-(b).

31

To obtain authorized access to the IEX System, each User must enter into a User
Agreement with IEX. See Proposed IEX Rule 11.130(a).

32

See IEX Second Response at 2.

33

See IEX First Response at 3.

34

See Exhibit E to IEX’s Form 1 submission, at 12. See also IEX First Response at 3.

7

(hereinafter the “POP/coil”), provides IEX Users sending non-routable orders to IEX with
350 microseconds 35 of one-way latency (hereinafter the “POP/coil delay”). 36
Several commenters expressed concern that IEX’s previously-published Form 1 lacked
specific detail about how the POP/coil structure would work, including what messages and
activity would – and would not – be subject to the delay. 37 IEX responded by supplementing the
record through its first two response letters. 38 Most recently, IEX proposed a new approach to
outbound routing, which is discussed further below.
According to IEX, all incoming messages (e.g., orders to buy or sell and any modification
to a previously sent open order) from any User would traverse the POP/coil to initially reach
IEX. In addition, all outbound messages from IEX back to a User (e.g., confirmations of an
execution that occurred on IEX) would pass through the same route in reverse. 39 IEX’s direct
proprietary market data feed, which is an optional data feed that IEX would make available to
subscribers, also would traverse the POP/coil. 40
As originally proposed, one type of inbound message and two types of outbound
messages would not traverse the POP/coil, specifically:
1. Inbound market data from other trading centers to the IEX system would not traverse
the POP/coil;

35

A microsecond is one millionth of a second.

36

See IEX First Response at 3. See also Amendment Nos. 2 and 3.

37

See, e.g., NYSE First Letter and Nasdaq First Letter.

38

See IEX First Response and IEX Second Response.

39

See IEX First Response at 3.

40

See id.

8

2. Orders routed outbound from IEX through IEXS to away trading centers for
execution (as well as reports back to IEX from those away trading centers) would not
traverse the POP/coil (though execution and transaction reports sent from IEX back to
Users would traverse the POP/coil and thus would be delayed) (as discussed below,
IEX recently proposed a materially different approach to outbound routing that it
intends will eliminate any exclusive advantages provided to its routing functionality);
and
3. Outbound transaction and quote messages sent from IEX to the applicable securities
information processor (“SIP”) would not pass through the POP/coil, but instead
would be sent directly from the IEX system to the SIP processor. 41
Finally, updates to resting pegged orders on IEX would be processed within the IEX trading
system and would not require that separate messages be transmitted from outside the trading
system, which would otherwise traverse the POP/coil, for each update. 42
According to IEX, its POP/coil delay, including its application to some but not all of the
message traffic into and out of its trading system, was originally designed to achieve two main
purposes: (1) to allow IEX time to update the prices of resting dark pegged orders on its book
(whose permissible execution prices are not static, but rather are tied to the NBBO as IEX sees it
through the proprietary data feeds it purchases from each exchange) in response to changes in
market prices before other market participants can access IEX’s resting pegged orders at
potentially “stale” prices (i.e., pegged order prices that had not been updated by IEX when the

41

See id. at 3-4.

42

See id.

9

new incoming order arrived at IEX); 43 and (2) to delay the trade acknowledgements IEX sends to
Users, as well as to delay its proprietary outbound data feed that reflects the occurrence of an
execution on IEX, both of which originally provided IEX’s affiliated outbound router with a
“head start” as it routes out to access trading interest posted on other exchanges before other
market participants learn about a trade on IEX and can trade with or re-price that away interest in
reaction to the execution that occurred on IEX. 44
Outbound Routing. In the three recent amendments to its Form 1, IEX, among other
things, proposed a significantly different approach to outbound routing. 45 Rather than initially
43

See id. at 4 (explaining that the POP/coil is designed “to ensure that no market
participants can take action on IEX in reaction to changes in market prices before IEX is
aware of the same price changes on behalf of all IEX members”). See also Hudson River
Trading First Letter at 3 (discussing the purposes of the POP/coil delay). One commenter
noted that the POP/coil delay “has no impact” on regular displayed orders, and “simply
slows down the trade execution process but does not alter the outcome” for non-pegged
orders. Id. at 2-3 (“Similar to a 100-meter sprint, if you simply add 350 microseconds to
each participant’s time, neither the order in which they finish nor their time differentials
will change.”). Rather, the commenter argued that “IEX delays all transparent displayed
orders that are critical to price discovery without altering the outcomes of those orders…
for the benefit of hidden, pegged orders that free-ride on price discovery.” See Hudson
River Trading Second Letter at 4.

44

See IEX Second Response at 14 (“…the purpose of requiring outbound execution
messages to go through the POP (350 microseconds) is to prevent ‘information leakage’
or ‘liquidity fade’ when IEXS routes to other markets”).

45

The proposed revisions to accommodate the new routing process are primarily addressed
in proposed IEX Rule 11.510 (Connectivity), as well as in proposed IEX Rules 2.220
(IEX Services LLC as Outbound Router), 11.130 (Access), 11.230(b)-(c) (Order
Execution), 11.240 (Trade Execution, Reporting, and Dissemination of Quotations),
11.330 (Data Products), and 11.410 (Use of Market Data Feeds and Calculations of
Necessary Price Reference Points). IEX also proposed other changes in Amendment
Nos. 2 and 3, including changes to proposed Rule 2.160 (Restrictions on Membership) to
reflect the Series 57 exam; proposed new Rule 2.250 (Mandatory Participation in Testing
of Backup Systems); proposed new Rule 9.217 (Expedited Client Suspension
Proceeding); proposed new Rule 10.270 (Disruptive Quoting and Trading Activity
Prohibited); changes to proposed Rule 11.190(a)(3) (Pegged Orders), (b)(8)-(10)
(concerning pegged orders), and (g) (concerning quote stability for Discretionary Peg
Orders); and changes to proposed Rule 11.260 (LIMITATION OF LIABILITY).

10

directing the entirety of a User’s order to the IEX matching engine and then routing away any
excess shares via IEXS directly (and without having to first pass through the POP/coil delay as it
routes shares outbound), IEX proposed to eliminate this aspect and instead create a new structure
intended to place its outbound routing function on parity with competing broker-dealers. IEX’s
latest amendments, which constitute a significant change from its initial Form 1, are discussed
further below.
III.

Proceedings to Determine Whether to Grant or Deny the Application and Grounds
for Potential Denial Under Consideration
The Commission is hereby instituting proceedings pursuant to Section 19(a)(1)(B) of the

Act 46 to determine whether IEX’s Form 1, as amended, should be granted or denied. Institution
of such proceedings is appropriate at this time in view of the issues raised by the application, the
significant changes proposed in IEX’s recent amendments, and the need for the Commission to
provide the public with an opportunity to comment and allow the Commission to consider
comments received on the recently filed features of the IEX market. Institution of proceedings
does not indicate that the Commission has reached any conclusions with respect to any of the
issues involved. In fact, the Commission is providing the public with an opportunity to comment
to inform its consideration and decision making regarding the Form 1, as IEX recently amended
it. The Commission encourages interested persons to provide specific comment on the Form 1
focused on Amendment Nos. 2, 3, and 4. 47

46

15 U.S.C. 78s(a)(1)(B).

47

See infra Section IV (Extension of Time for Proceedings). Separately, the Commission is
evaluating whether to revisit its interpretation of automated quotation under Regulation
NMS in light of comments received on IEX’s Form 1 concerning the consistency of the
POP/coil delay with Regulation NMS.

11

As required by Section 19(a)(1)(B) of the Act, 48 the Commission is hereby providing
notice of the grounds for potential denial under consideration. Under Sections 6(b) and 19(a)(1)
of the Act, 49 the Commission shall grant an application for registration as a national securities
exchange if the Commission finds that the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations
thereunder with respect to the applicant are satisfied; the Commission shall deny such
application for registration if it does not make such a finding. In particular, Section 6(b)(5) of
the Act 50 provides that an exchange shall not be registered as a national securities exchange
unless the Commission determines that the rules of the exchange are designed, among other
things, not to permit unfair discrimination between customers, issuers, brokers, or dealers. In
addition, Section 6(b)(8) of the Act 51 provides that an exchange shall not be registered as a
national securities exchange unless the Commission determines that the rules of the exchange do
not impose any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the
purposes of Act.
The Commission is particularly interested in commenters’ views as to whether the
changes set forth in IEX’s Form 1, as amended, are consistent with the Act, in light of
commenters’ concerns that IEX’s routing functionality and IEXS would have an advantage over
other routing broker-dealers that would be unfairly discriminatory and an inappropriate burden
on competition. 52 IEX has represented to the Commission that, under its revised outbound

48

15 U.S.C. 78s(a)(1)(B).

49

15 U.S.C. 78f(b) and 15 U.S.C. 78s(a)(1), respectively.

50

15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5).

51

15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(8).

52

Several commenters criticized the fact that IEXS would have received routing
information from the IEX system outside of, and not subject to, the POP/coil delay while
other IEX members’ receipt of transaction and quotation information from the IEX

12

routing structure, IEX’s routing functionality would interface with the IEX matching engine on
the same terms as other Users, including routing broker-dealer members of IEX. 53
The proposed new outbound routing structure, which IEX filed with the Commission
over a period ending in early March, represents a material departure from the original design that
IEX proposed in its original Form 1 and therefore warrants further review and consideration by
the Commission, as informed by further public comment. 54 IEX has proposed a number of
changes to its rulebook to effectuate this new design. The Commission believes that the
protection of investors and the public interest are best served by affording the public the
system would have been subject to the POP/coil delay. See, e.g., BATS First Letter at 45; BATS Second Letter at 3-6; BATS Third Letter at 3; NYSE First Letter at 3-5; NYSE
Second Letter at 3; Citadel First Letter at 6-7; Citadel Second Letter at 5-6; Citadel Third
Letter at 1-2; FIA First Letter at 4-5; Tabb Letter at 2-3; Hudson River Trading First
Letter at 3-7; Hudson River Trading Second Letter at 2-5; Markit First Letter at 1-3;
Markit Second Letter at 3-4 and 6; Hunsacker Letter; Weldon Letter. In other words, the
concern expressed was that IEXS would have been able to route to away markets the
unexecuted portion of any marketable order not fully executed at IEX 350 microseconds
before other routing broker-dealers learned that an execution occurred on IEX. Some
commenters argued that this arrangement would provide an unfair competitive advantage
to IEX and the routing broker that it owns in that IEXS would have faster access to
information from the IEX trading system than other members of IEX, including those
who offer routing services that compete with IEXS, and thus IEXS would have the
unique ability over other routing brokers to most quickly and efficiently route to away
markets. See, e.g., BATS First Letter at 4-5; BATS Second Letter at 3-6; BATS Third
Letter at 3; NYSE First Letter at 3-5; NYSE Second Letter at 3; Citadel First Letter at 67; Citadel Second Letter at 5-6; Citadel Third Letter at 1-2; FIA First Letter at 4-5; Tabb
Letter at 2-3; Hudson River Trading First Letter at 3-7; Hudson River Trading Second
Letter at 4-5; Markit First Letter at 1-3; Markit Second Letter at 3-4 and 6; Weldon
Letter. Other commenters opined that the advantage provided to IEXS would effectively
force brokers to use IEXS because other third party routing brokers would be
competitively disadvantaged by their inability to similarly bypass the POP/coil delay.
See, e.g., Tabb Letter at 2; Citadel Third Letter at 3.
53

See Letter from Sophia Lee, General Counsel, IEX, to Brent J. Fields, Secretary,
Commission, dated February 29, 2016.

54

In particular, the recently-filed amendments to IEX’s Form 1 introduce the concept of a
new POP/coil delay between IEX’s routing logic (which is located within IEX’s system)
and IEX’s book.

13

opportunity to review and comment on this modified proposal from IEX, particularly in light of
the large number of comments the Commission received that raised questions about whether
IEX’s proposed rules were consistent with the requirements of the Act. By publishing notice of,
and soliciting comment on, IEX’s Form 1, as most recently amended by Amendment Nos. 2, 3,
and 4, and simultaneously instituting proceedings, the Commission seeks public input on
whether IEX’s proposed new outbound routing structure, as reflected in its new proposed
amended rules, is consistent with the Act, and accordingly, whether IEX should be registered as
a national securities exchange.
The Commission previously has stated that an exchange-affiliated outbound router, as a
“facility” of the exchange, will be subject to the exchange’s and the Commission’s regulatory
oversight, and that the exchange will be responsible for ensuring that the affiliated outbound
routing function is operated consistent with Section 6 of the Act and the exchange’s rules. 55 For
example, in approving an exchange with an affiliated outbound routing broker, the Commission
previously noted that “[a] conflict of interest would arise if the national securities exchange (or
an affiliate) provided advantages to its broker-dealer that are not available to other members.” 56
The Commission further explained that “advantages, such as greater access to information,

55

See, e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release No. 62716 (Aug. 13, 2010), 75 FR 51295
(August 19, 2010) (granting BATS Y Exchange’s request to register as a national
securities exchange).

56

Securities Exchange Act Release No. 44983 (October 25, 2001), 66 FR 55225, 55233
(November 1, 2001) (PCX-00-25) (order approving Archipelago Exchange (“ArcaEx”) as
the equities trading facility of PCX Equities, Inc.) (“ArcaEx Order”). In the 2001 PCX
filing, two commenters expressed concerns regarding ArcaEx’s affiliation with the Wave
broker-dealer, which operated as the outbound routing broker-dealer for ArcaEx.
Specifically, these commenters were concerned that the affiliation between ArcaEx and
Wave would be anti-competitive and could create a conflict of interest. See also supra
note 55, at 51304 (citing to the BATS Y order).

14

improved speed of execution, or enhanced operational capabilities in dealing with the exchange,
might constitute unfair discrimination under the Act.” 57
As specified in IEX’s initial Form 1, unexecuted shares of routable orders sent to IEXS
would not have traversed the POP/coil. As revised by Amendment Nos. 2, 3, and 4, IEX now
proposes a significantly different structure that it says is intended to place its router and routing
logic in an identical position to non-affiliated routing broker-dealers. 58
IEX’s recent amendments include new rules to bifurcate its handling of non-routable and
routable orders. 59 For routable orders, IEX explains that it would insert an additional POP/coil
delay within the IEX system to delay routable orders’ access to the IEX book by an additional
350 microseconds after they have already passed through the initial POP/coil delay on their way
into the IEX system (for a total delay of 700 microseconds before any portion of the routable
order reaches the IEX book). 60 IEX represents that this new delay is intended to place IEX in the
same position as a third-party routing broker in reaching IEX’s book through a POP/coil delay,
such that IEX’s ability to submit a routable order to its own order book would be identical to any
other routing broker-dealer’s ability to submit a routable order to the IEX order book despite the
fact that the orders would traverse different paths in the system. 61 Likewise, IEX notes that

57

ArcaEx Order, supra note 56, at 55233.

58

See Letter from Sophia Lee, General Counsel, IEX, to Brent J. Fields, Secretary,
Commission, dated February 29, 2016, at 1.

59

See id.

60

See id. at 1-2 (“Please note that because of the speed bump introduced between the IEX
Router and the IEX matching engine, IEX routing members independently choosing to
use the IEX Router will experience an additional 350 microseconds of latency as
compared to members sending non-routable orders to the IEX matching engine.”).

61

See id. at 1 (“In particular, this redesign eliminates any alleged advantage claimed by the
commenters that the Router has over a third party broker routing to IEX.”).

15

messages from the IEX order book back to IEX’s routing logic also would be subject to this
POP/coil delay to effect a latency identical to that experienced by IEX’s non-affiliated members
when receiving messages back from the IEX order book. 62 As such, IEX represents that its
routing functionality would have no information advantage (i.e., no special view of IEX’s book,
including displayed or non-displayed interest) and IEX represents that the proposal places its
outbound routing functionality in an identical position to third-party routing broker-dealers when
sending orders into the IEX matching engine and when receiving transaction information from
the IEX matching engine. 63
Given this additional POP/coil delay, Users submitting routable orders to IEX and Users
submitting non-routable orders to IEX would not be subject to the same cumulative POP/coil
delay. Non-routable orders would remain subject to the 350 microsecond delay into and out of
the IEX matching engine via the initial POP/coil. Routable orders, however, would be sent to
IEX’s system routing logic first, and, if routed to IEX, would traverse a new POP/coil delay
(with an additional 350 microsecond delay) when interacting with the IEX matching engine. 64

62

See id. at 1-2 (noting that “the IEX Router would receive fill information from the IEX
matching engine by way of the speed bump, which would place the IEX Router’s ability
to receive information from the IEX matching engine on equal terms to an independent
broker router”).

63

See id. at 2 (noting that “the IEX Router would receive IEX quote information (the IEX
TOPS feed) over the speed bump, which would place the IEX Router’s ability to receive
IEX quote information on equal terms to an independent broker router”).

64

See id. IEX believes that this additional delay should not be to the detriment of a User
submitting a routable order, and notes that Users may avoid this additional delay by
submitting non-routable orders. See id. In addition, the trade confirmation report from
the IEX matching engine back to the User that submitted the routable order would be
subject to a 700 microsecond delay, whereas IEX’s proprietary data feed would only be
subject to a 350 microsecond delay. See id. at 1-2.

16

The Commission is evaluating whether IEX’s revised proposal for handling routable
orders sufficiently addresses concerns that its proposed rules may not be consistent with the Act,
for example whether they constitute unfair discrimination, or impose an unnecessary or
inappropriate burden on competition.
Accordingly, the Commission believes that it is appropriate at this time to institute
proceedings to determine whether to grant or deny IEX’s Form 1, as modified by IEX’s recent
amendments. For the reasons set forth above, the Commission believes that questions remain as
to whether IEX’s proposed trading system is consistent with the requirements of: (1) Section
6(b)(5) of the Act, 65 which provides that an exchange shall not be registered as a national
securities exchange unless the Commission determines that the rules of the exchange are
designed, among other things, not to permit unfair discrimination between customers, issuers,
brokers, or dealers; and (2) Section 6(b)(8) of the Act, 66 which provides that an exchange shall
not be registered as a national securities exchange unless the Commission determines that the
rules of the exchange do not impose any burden on competition that is not necessary or
appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of Act. 67
The Commission invites comment on all aspects of IEX’s Form 1, as amended,
particularly with regard to the proposed outbound routing functionality as presented in its recent

65

15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5).

66

15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(8).

67

Commenters also raised concerns about whether IEX’s quotation, in light of the POP/coil
delay, could be categorized as “automated,” and therefore be “protected,” under Rule 611
of Regulation NMS given prior Commission guidance on those definitions when it
adopted Regulation NMS. See, e.g., FIA First Letter; NYSE First Letter; Citadel First
Letter. The Commission is separately evaluating the definition of automated quotation
under Regulation NMS in light of comments received on IEX’s Form 1 concerning the
consistency of the POP/coil delay with Regulation NMS.

17

amendments. In particular, do commenters have a view on whether IEX’s revised proposal
places other routing brokers who are members of IEX on the same footing as IEX in a manner
that would address the concerns under the Act and the rules thereunder? Are there material
aspects of IEX’s proposed revised routing functionality that are not clearly presented in IEX’s
revised rules 68 and addressed by IEX’s Form 1, as amended? Do commenters have a view on
whether the different delays in accessing the IEX matching engine experienced by routable
orders versus non-routable orders present any concerns under the Act?
IV.

Extension of Time for Proceedings
As noted above, IEX previously consented to an extension of time for its Form 1 to

March 21, 2016. 69 Most recently, on February 29, March 4, and March 7, IEX filed amendments
to its Form 1. 70 As discussed above, these amendments contained, among other unrelated
changes, several new and amended rules to effect a significantly different approach to outbound
routing. IEX stated its belief that its new routing proposal addresses concerns raised by
commenters about its outbound routing functionality and whether that original proposal was
consistent with the Act. 71 For the reasons discussed above, the Commission believes it is
necessary to provide a notice and comment period so that market participants can evaluate the
new proposal and amended rule text.
IEX filed these amendments to its Form 1 approximately two weeks prior to the March
21 deadline. The Commission does not have sufficient time before that March 21 deadline to
68

See supra note 45 (citing to the proposed amended IEX rules that would accommodate
the new routing process, including proposed IEX Rule 11.510).

69

See supra note 6.

70

See supra notes 7-9.

71

See Letter from Sophia Lee, General Counsel, IEX, to Brent J. Fields, Secretary,
Commission, dated February 29, 2016, at 2.

18

publish notice of IEX’s amendments in the Federal Register, afford market participants a 21-day
comment period, and then evaluate any comments received before making a final determination
on IEX’s Form 1, as amended. Therefore, to provide time for public notice and comment and for
Commission consideration of this significant new proposal from IEX, the Commission believes
that there is good cause for a ninety-day extension of these proceedings. Accordingly, the
Commission hereby designates June 18, 2016 as the date by which the Commission shall
determine whether to grant or deny IEX’s Form 1, as amended, for registration as a national
securities exchange.
V.

Request for Written Comments
The Commission requests that interested persons provide written views and data with

respect to IEX’s Form 1, as amended, and the questions included above or other relevant issues.
Comments may be submitted by any of the following methods:
Electronic comments:
•

Use the Commission’s Internet comment form (http://www.sec.gov/rules/sro.shtml); or

•

Send an e-mail to rule-comments@sec.gov. Please include File Number 10-222 on the
subject line.

Paper comments:
•

Send paper comments in triplicate to Brent J. Fields, Secretary, Securities and Exchange
Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-1090.

All submissions should refer to File Number 10-222. This file number should be included on the
subject line if e-mail is used. To help the Commission process and review your comments more
efficiently, please use only one method. The Commission will post all comments on the
Commission’s Internet website (http://www.sec.gov/rules/other.shtml). Copies of the

19

submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to IEX’s Form 1
filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the application between
the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in
accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for website viewing and
printing in the Commission’s Public Reference Room, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549,
on official business days between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. All comments received
will be posted without change; the Commission does not edit personal identifying information
from submissions. You should submit only information that you wish to make publicly
available. All submissions should refer to File Number 10-222 and should be submitted on or
before [insert date 21 days from publication in the Federal Register].

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

20

