UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 79003 / September 30, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4542 / September 30, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17604
ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
AND CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS,
PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 15(b) AND 21C
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934, SECTIONS 203(e) AND 203(k) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASEAND-DESIST ORDER

In the Matter of
Moloney Securities Co., Inc.
and Joseph R. Medley, Jr.
Respondents.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted pursuant to Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange
Act”), and Sections 203(e) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”),
against Moloney Securities Co., Inc. (“Moloney”) and that cease-and-desist proceedings be, and
hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 203(k) of the Advisers Act against Joseph Ronald
Medley, Jr. (“Medley”) (Moloney and Medley hereinafter are collectively referred to as
“Respondents”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have each submitted an
Offer of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these

proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V with regard to
Respondent Medley, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative and
Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 and Sections 203(e) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings,
and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and Cease-and-Desist Orders (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds1 that:
Summary
This matter concerns Moloney’s multiple and repeated violations of the Advisers Act, even
after the staff of the Commission’s Office of Compliance Inspections and Examination
(hereinafter, “exam staff”) conducted examinations of Moloney and issued three deficiency letters
to Moloney in 2006, 2009 and 2012. In the 2006 exam deficiency letter, the exam staff noted,
among other items, that Moloney did not have written compliance policies and procedures in place
for its investment advisory business. In response, Moloney represented that it would correct the
noted deficiencies. While Moloney developed its written compliance policies and procedures for
its investment advisory business, the 2009 exam revealed that Moloney did not adequately
implement those policies concerning best execution and principal transactions. Furthermore,
Moloney did not properly conduct principal transactions. Accordingly, the exam staff issued a
deficiency letter in 2009 that identified deficiencies relating to Moloney’s practices regarding
principal transactions and Moloney’s failure to implement its compliance policies and procedures
regarding principal transactions and best execution. Moloney responded that it would resolve these
deficiencies moving forward.
Following the issuance of these two deficiency letters from the exam staff, Moloney
received another deficiency letter from the exam staff in 2012 which identified that the firm’s past
deficiencies regarding principal transactions and implementation of compliance policies and
procedures were ongoing. Specifically, Moloney failed to: (i) properly conduct principal
transactions; (ii) accurately disclose its practices regarding principal transactions; and (iii)
implement the firm’s compliance policies and procedures regarding principal transactions and best
execution. Accordingly, Moloney violated Sections 206(2), 206(3), 206(4), and 207 of the
Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-7 promulgated thereunder.
During the relevant period, Medley served as Chief Investment Officer (“CIO”) and
President of Moloney’s investment advisory business. Through these roles, Medley was
responsible for overseeing Moloney’s investment advisory business during the relevant period2 and

1

2

The findings herein are made pursuant to each Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.
The relevant time period is September 1, 2009 – September 30, 2011.

2

caused Moloney’s violations of Sections 206(2), 206(3), 206(4) and 207 of the Advisers Act and
Rule 206(4)-7 promulgated thereunder.
Respondents
1.
Moloney is a Missouri corporation based in Manchester, Missouri. Moloney was
registered with the Commission as an investment adviser during the relevant period and has been
registered with the Commission as a broker-dealer since 1995. Moloney’s investment advisory
business also operated under the doing business as name, Moloney Securities Asset
Management, during the relevant period.
2.
Medley has been associated with Moloney from 1999 to the present as both a
registered representative and as an investment advisory representative. From July 2008 and
during the relevant period, Medley served as the CIO and President of Moloney’s investment
advisory business, which also operated under the doing business as name, Moloney Securities
Asset Management, during the relevant period.
Background
Principal Transactions
3.
In July 2009, the exam staff issued Moloney a deficiency letter that noted, among
other items, that Moloney failed to properly conduct principal transactions. Specifically, the exam
staff found that the firm failed to adequately disclose its capacity in writing in connection with
principal transactions. The exam staff reminded Moloney of its obligations to comply with Section
206(3) of the Advisers Act when conducting principal transactions, which required the firm and its
advisory representatives to: (i) disclose its capacity in writing to clients and (ii) obtain client
consent before the completion of each principal transaction.
4.
In response to this deficiency letter, Moloney stated that it would modify its
practices, policies and procedures regarding principal transactions to ensure that the firm complied
with Section 206(3) of the Advisers Act. In addition to representing that Moloney would improve
the implementation of its existing policies concerning principal transactions, Moloney created new
template forms for its investment advisory representatives to use for principal transactions. These
template forms were designed to give clients notice of Moloney’s capacity in the transactions and
to obtain client consent to execute transactions completed on a principal basis. Moloney provided
these templates and represented to the exam staff that the firm would use these template forms in
efforts to ensure compliance with Section 206(3) of the Advisers Act.
5.
The 2012 exam, however, revealed that Moloney did not improve its practices
regarding principal transactions. For instance Moloney conducted 53 principal transactions during
the two-year relevant period, but failed to use the new template forms in all but one of these
transactions. Moloney continued to conduct principal transactions without both disclosing its
3

capacity in writing to clients and obtaining client consent before the completion of each
transaction.
Best Execution Compliance Policies and Procedures
6.
In 2006, the exam staff issued a deficiency letter that noted, among other items, that
Moloney lacked written compliance policies or procedures that outlined how the firm’s advisory
business would seek best execution for its clients. Following the 2006 exam, Moloney developed
new compliance policies and procedures structured to ensure that it would adequately satisfy its
best execution obligations for its advisory clients. In connection with these new written policies,
Moloney formed a best execution committee. Per these written policies, the best execution
committee was required to hold quarterly meetings to review best execution and to take minutes
reflecting the steps that the firm took to satisfy its best execution obligations.
7.
Although Moloney created these new compliance policies and procedures to
address best execution practices, the exam staff issued a deficiency letter in 2009 that noted,
among other items, that Moloney did not implement these best execution policies and procedures.
For instance, Moloney’s best execution committee did not meet on a quarterly basis or take
minutes of its meetings. In response to the 2009 deficiency letter, Moloney represented that the
firm would improve its compliance with these policies and procedures.
8.
Despite these representations, during the relevant period, Moloney continued to
disregard its own compliance policies and procedures regarding best execution. In contravention
of firm policy, Moloney did not: (i) convene a best execution committee on a quarterly basis; (ii)
take minutes from best execution meetings; or (iii) review best execution for its clients on a
consistent quarterly basis.
Disclosure Violations
9.
Between September 1, 2009 and September 30, 2011, clients received a copy of the
firm’s Form ADV Part 2A. During this relevant period, Moloney’s Form ADV Part 2A contained
certain misstatements of material fact concerning principal transactions.
10.
transactions:

Moloney’s Form ADV Part 2 A, Item 11, stated the following concerning principal

Moloney will not seek to act as principal without obtaining in each
instance prior authorization and consent of the client, and providing the
client with written confirmation and disclosure of such capacity prior to
settlement of the trade.
11.
These statements falsely indicated that Moloney would provide certain notice and
obtain advisory client consent before executing principal transactions, when Moloney did not do
so.
4

Failure to Implement Compliance Policies and Procedures
12.
During the relevant period, Moloney failed to implement its compliance policies
and procedures concerning principal transactions and best execution.
13.
During the relevant time period, Moloney’s Investment Advisory Policies and
Procedures prohibited the following conduct related to principal transactions:
Acting as a principal in a transaction without first disclosing to the client the nature
of such transaction, providing information sufficient to allow an informed decision,
obtaining verbal consent and prior approval from the client to act in such capacity
and disclosing and confirming such capacity to the client, in writing, prior to
completion (settlement) of the transaction.
14.
During the relevant time period, Moloney’s Investment Advisory Policies and
Procedures also provided that a best execution committee would meet and examine best execution
on a quarterly basis:
A best execution committee comprised of the CEO, CCO, and CIO as
well as other members of the management committee of the firms’
broker/dealer will meet quarterly to review best execution reports
provided by its clearing brokers to assess and evaluate execution speed,
price improvement, liquidity and other factors to compare performance
with the firm’s expectations and industry standards. Execution data from
competing clearing firms will also be examined, where available. The
minutes of such meetings will be maintained on file at the home office.
15.
procedures.

Moloney failed to implement either of these written compliance policies and

16.
Beginning in July 2008, through his roles as CIO and President, Medley was
responsible for ensuring that Moloney conducted principal transactions in compliance with the
Advisers Act and in a manner consistent with its written disclosures, and that the firm’s practices
accurately conformed and adhered to its compliance policies and procedures regarding principal
transactions and best execution. Yet, Medley failed to ensure the proper conduct and
implementation of the firm’s principal transactions in compliance and conformance with the
Advisers Act and its written disclosures concerning the same, and did not properly oversee the
implementation of the firm’s policies and procedures concerning principal transactions and best
execution, or correct the firm’s deficiencies related to the same.
Violations
17.
As a result of the conduct described above, Moloney willfully violated Section
206(3) of the Advisers Act, which makes it unlawful for an adviser to engage in principal
5

transactions with a client without disclosing its capacity and obtaining client consent before
completion of the transaction. 3
18.
As a result of the conduct described above, Moloney willfully violated Section
206(2) of the Advisers Act, which makes it unlawful for an adviser to engage in any transactions,
practice, or course of business that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any client.
19.
As a result of the conduct described above, Moloney willfully violated Section
206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-7 promulgated thereunder, which makes it unlawful to
provide investment advice without adopting and implementing written compliance policies and
procedures reasonably designed to prevent violations of the Advisers Act.
20.
As a result of the conduct described above, Moloney willfully violated Section 207
of the Advisers Act, which makes it “unlawful for any person willfully to make any untrue
statement of a material fact in any registration application or report filed with the Commission …
or willfully to omit to state in any such application or report any material fact which is required to
be stated therein.”
21.
As a result of the conduct described above, Medley caused Moloney’s violations of
Sections 206(2), 206(3), 207 and 206(4) of the Advisers Act, and Rule 206(4)-7 promulgated
thereunder.
Respondents’ Remedial Efforts
22.
In determining to accept the Offers, the Commission considered remedial acts
promptly undertaken by Respondents and cooperation afforded the Commission staff. Prior to
the issuance of this Order, Moloney reimbursed certain clients for principal transactions which
did not comply with Section 206(3) of the Advisers Act. Respondents also segregated the firm’s
brokerage and advisory accounts to assist with a more efficient review of the firm’s advisory
business. In April 2014, Moloney hired a compliance consultant to revise and enhance its
compliance procedures and policies. Furthermore, the firm hired an experienced chief
compliance officer to assist with Moloney’s investment advisory business.
Undertakings
Respondent Moloney has undertaken to:
23.
Independent Compliance Consultant. Engage, within 30 days of the
Order, an Independent Compliance Consultant not unacceptable to the staff for a one year
period to review Moloney’s investment adviser compliance program and to assist
3

A willful violation of the securities laws means merely that “the person charged with the duty knows what
he is doing.” Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000) (quoting Hughes v. SEC, 174 F.2d 969,
977 (D.C. Cir. 1949)). There is no requirement that the actor “also be aware that he is violating one of the
Rules or Acts.” Id. (quoting Gearheart & Otis, Inc. v. SEC, 348 F.3d 798, 803 (D.C. Cir. 1965)).

6

Moloney in developing and implementing policies and procedures reasonably designed to
promote Moloney’s compliance with the Advisers Act. Moloney’s engagement of the
Independent Compliance Consultant shall include, but not be limited to, Moloney’s
obligations with respect to principal transactions, best execution, and disclosure
requirements to advisory clients.
24.
Require the Independent Consultant to enter into an agreement that
provides that for the period of engagement and for a period of two years from completion
of the engagement, the Independent Consultant shall not enter into any employment,
consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with Moloney, or
any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in
their capacity. The agreement will also provide that the Independent Consultant will
require that any firm with which he/she is affiliated or of which he/she is a member, and
any person engaged to assist the Independent Consultant in performance of his/her duties
under this Order shall not, without prior written consent of the Commission staff, enter
into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional
relationship with Moloney, or any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers,
employees, or agents acting in their capacity as such for the period of the engagement and
for a period of two years after the engagement.
25.
Certify, in writing, compliance with the undertaking(s) set forth above.
The certification shall identify the undertaking(s), provide written evidence of
compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits sufficient to
demonstrate compliance. The Commission staff may make reasonable requests for
further evidence of compliance, and Moloney agrees to provide such evidence. The
certification and supporting material shall be submitted to Barry Isenman, Assistant
Regional Director, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Chicago Regional Office,
175 West Jackson Boulevard, Suite 900, Chicago, Illinois 60604 with a copy to the
Office of Chief Counsel of the Enforcement Division, no later than sixty (60) days from
the date of the completion of the undertakings.
26.
For good cause shown, the Commission staff may extend any of the
procedural dates relating to the undertakings. Deadlines for procedural dates shall be
counted in calendar days, except that if the last day falls on a weekend or federal holiday,
the next business day shall be considered to be the last day.

IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate, and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondents’ Offers.
Accordingly, pursuant to Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Exchange Act, and Sections 203(e)
and 203(k) of the Advisers Act, it is hereby ORDERED that:
7

A.
Respondents cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any
future violations of Sections 206(2), 206(3), 207, 206(4), and Rule 204-4(7) promulgated
thereunder.
B.

Moloney is censured.

C.
Moloney shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money penalty
in the amount of $34,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general
fund of the United States Treasury subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If timely payment
is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717. Payment must be made in
one of the following ways:
(1)

Moloney may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which
will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

(2)

Moloney may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Moloney may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States
postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
Moloney as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of
the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Barry Isenman, Assistant Regional
Director, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Chicago Regional Office, 175 West Jackson
Boulevard, Suite 900, Chicago, Illinois 60604.
D.
Medley shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money penalty in
the amount of $7,500 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund
of the United States Treasury , subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If timely payment is
not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717. Payment must be made in
one of the following ways:
(1)

Medley may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will
provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;
8

(2)

Medley may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through
the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Medley may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States
postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:
Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
Medley as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of
the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Barry Isenman, Assistant Regional
Director, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Chicago Regional Office, 175 West Jackson
Boulevard, Suite 900, Chicago, Illinois 60604.
E.
Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondents agree that in any Related Investor
Action, they shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall they benefit by, offset or reduction of
any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondents’ payments of a
civil penalties in this action ("Penalty Offset"). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants
such a Penalty Offset, Respondents agree that they shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order
granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of
the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall not be
deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil
penalty imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action"
means a private damages action brought against Respondents by or on behalf of one or more
investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the
Commission in this proceeding.
G.
Respondent Moloney shall comply with the undertakings enumerated in Paragraphs
23-26 above.
V.
It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by
Respondent Medley, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or
other amounts due by Respondent Medley4 under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent
4

This paragraph applies solely to Respondent Medley.

9

order, decree or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the
violation by Respondent Medley of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued
under such laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19).
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

10

