UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78655 / August 23, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17417

In the Matter of

ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

DOUGLAS KUBER,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Douglas Kuber
(“Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s
jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the findings contained in
Section III.2. below, and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings
Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing
Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:

RESPONDENT
1.
Respondent, age 56, is a United States citizen residing in Surfside, Florida.
Respondent has never been registered with the Commission in any capacity.
RESPONDENT’S CRIMINAL CONVICTION
2.
On October 11, 2012, pursuant to a plea agreement, Respondent pled guilty in the
United States District Court for the District of Maryland to one count of a Criminal Information
charging him with conspiracy to commit wire fraud in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1349 in United
States v. Douglas Kuber, Crim. Case No. 1:12-CR-00494-WDQ.
3.
The count of the information to which Respondent pled guilty alleges that from late
2007 through March 2009, Respondent, along with others, did knowingly devise and intend to
devise a scheme and artifice to defraud investors and to obtain money and property from such
investors in excess of $145 million by means of materially false and fraudulent pretenses,
representations, and promises, which were transmitted by means or instrumentalities of interstate
commerce.
4.
The information further alleged facts establishing that Respondent acted as an
unregistered broker throughout the relevant period. Respondent, along with others, identified and
solicited investors who sought to invest in securities collateralized by debt portfolios consisting of
pooled or batched medical receivables created, managed and sold by International Portfolio, Inc.
(“IPI”). Respondent and others then used loan proceeds to purchase IPI debt portfolios.
Respondent and his business partner received compensation through undisclosed and disguised
commissions that were approximately 5% of the price purportedly paid to buy each debt portfolio,
although it was falsely represented to investors that they would not be paid until after investors had
received the full return of their interest and principal.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Kuber’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act,
that Respondent Kuber be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer,
investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, or transfer agent; and
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent Kuber be, and hereby is
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder,
consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for
purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the
purchase or sale of any penny stock.

2

Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

