UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78411 / July 25, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17360
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
Timothy A. Nemeckay,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Timothy A.
Nemeckay (“Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these
proceedings and the findings contained in Sections III.2. below, which are admitted, Respondent
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions
(“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that
1.
Timothy A Nemeckay is the President and a Director of Nemeckay Group
Incorporated (“NGI”), a Utah corporation headquartered in Park City, Utah. Nemeckay and NGI
offered and sold securities in the form of limited liability company membership interests in

Innovative Health Solutions, LLC (“IHS”) through the use of private placement memoranda and
other offering documents. Nemeckay, through NGI, acted as an unregistered broker-dealer when
he engaged in the business of effecting transactions in securities for the account of others and
received commissions for his sales of membership interests in IHS. Nemeckay and NGI are not
registered with the Commission in any capacity. Nemeckay, age 56, is a resident of Park City,
Utah.
2.
On July 1, 2014, the Utah Division of Securities entered a Stipulation and Consent
Order (“Utah Order”) in In the Matter of Timothy A. Nemeckay and Nemeckay Group
Incorporated, SD-14-0009, SD-14-0010. The Utah Order ordered Nemeckay and NGI to cease
and desist from violating the Utah Uniform Securities Act and barred Nemeckay and NGI from
associating with any broker-dealer or investment adviser licensed in Utah, acting as agents for any
issuer soliciting investor funds in Utah, and from being licensed in any capacity in the securities
industry of Utah. The Utah Order also required Nemeckay and NGI to pay a fine of $350,000,
which includes full restitution to investors and a penalty of approximately $36,000.
3.
The Utah Order found that Nemeckay offered and/or sold to investors
limited liability company interests in IHS that are securities pursuant to Section 61-113(1)(ee)(i)(Q) of the Utah Uniform Securities Act, and that Nemeckay violated Section 61-1-13
of the Utah Uniform Securities Act by making untrue statements of material facts or omitting to
state material facts in connection with the offer of securities, disclosure of which were necessary in
order to make representations made not misleading, and Section 61-1-3(1) of the Utah Act by
transacting business in the state of Utah as an unlicensed agent. In addition, the Utah Order found
that Nemeckay received $313,709.38 in direct compensation from IHS for his efforts in effecting
the purchase and/or sale of securities. Nemeckay neither admitted nor denied the Utah Division of
Securities’ findings of fact and conclusions of law, but consented to the sanctions imposed by the
Utah Division of Securities. Nemeckay is currently making payments on the fine, which is
scheduled to be paid in full by September 2017.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Nemeckay’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act,
that Respondent Nemeckay be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer,
investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally
recognized statistical rating organization; and
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent Nemeckay be, and hereby is
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder,
consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for
purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the
purchase or sale of any penny stock.
2

Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

