ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17637
Former Miami Brokerage Firm CEO Settles with SEC for Violating Anti-Money
Laundering Protocols
October 19, 2016 – The former president and CEO of a Miami-based brokerage firm agreed to a
one-year supervisory suspension and payment of a $50,000 penalty to settle charges that she
aided and abetted and caused violations of anti-money laundering (AML) rules by allowing
foreign entities to buy and sell securities without verifying the identities of the non-U.S. citizens
who beneficially owned them.
The SEC brought an enforcement action earlier this year against the firm, E.S. Financial, which
settled the charges by paying a $1 million penalty.
According to the SEC’s order instituted today against former E.S. Financial president and CEO
Lia Yaffar-Pena:
•

•
•
•

From May 2003 to August 2013, Yaffar-Pena aided and abetted and caused the firm’s
violations of the requirements set forth in the customer identification program (CIP) rule
by allowing non-U.S. citizens to trade through a brokerage account opened by a Central
American bank affiliated with the firm.
Federal law requires all financial institutions to maintain an adequate CIP to ensure the
firms know their customers and do not become a conduit for money laundering or
terrorist financing.
As the firm’s president and CEO, Yaffar-Pena was ultimately responsible for the firm’s
AML program, CIP procedures, and supervision of the firm’s AML officer and chief
compliance officer.
Despite knowing that non-U.S. citizens were trading on their own behalf through the
affiliated account, Yaffar-Pena permitted 13 foreign corporate entities and, in turn, 23
non-U.S. citizens who were their beneficial owners, to execute more than $23 million in
securities transactions through the Central American bank’s brokerage account without
ever verifying their identities as required by the CIP rule.

The SEC’s order finds that Yaffar-Pena willfully aided and abetted and caused E.S. Financial’s
violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 17a-8 thereunder,
which require a broker-dealer to comply with the reporting, recordkeeping, and record retention
requirements in regulations implemented under the Bank Secrecy Act, including the
requirements in the CIP rule applicable to broker-dealers. The order also finds that Yaffar Pena
willfully aided and abetted and caused the firm’s violations of Exchange Act Rules 17a-3(a)(3)
and (9) and 17a-4(a) and (b)(1), which require broker-dealers to create and maintain customer
account records.
Without admitting or denying the findings in the SEC’s order, Yaffar-Pena consented to the
entry of a cease and desist order, a one-year supervisory suspension, and payment of a $50,000
penalty.

The SEC appreciates the assistance of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA).
See also:

Order

