SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
(Release No. 34-73764; File No. SR-MSRB-2014-07)
December 5, 2014
Self-Regulatory Organizations; Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board; Order Granting
Approval of a Proposed Rule Change Consisting of Rule G-18, on Best Execution of
Transactions in Municipal Securities, and Amendments to Rule G-48, on Transactions with
Sophisticated Municipal Market Professionals (“SMMP”), and Rule D-15, on the Definition of
SMMP
I.

Introduction
On August 20, 2014, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (the “MSRB” or

“Board”) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC” or “Commission”),
pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Act”) 1 and Rule 19b-4
thereunder, 2 a proposed rule change consisting of Rule G-18, on best execution of transactions in
municipal securities, and amendments to Rule G-48, on transactions with SMMPs, and Rule D15, on the definition of SMMP (the “proposed rule change”). The proposed rule change was
published for comment in the Federal Register on September 8, 2014. 3
The Commission received six comment letters on the proposed rule change. 4 On

1

15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1).

2

17 CFR § 240.19b-4.

3

Securities Exchange Act Release No. 72956 (September 2, 2014), 79 FR 53236
(September 8, 2014) (the “Proposing Release”).

4

See Letters from David L. Cohen, Managing Director and Associate General Counsel,
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (“SIFMA”), dated September 29,
2014 (“SIFMA Letter”); Michael Nicholas, Chief Executive Officer, Bond Dealers of
America (“BDA”), dated September 29, 2014 (“BDA Letter No. 1”) and October 30,
2014 (“BDA Letter No. 2”); Chris Melton, Executive Vice President, Coastal Securities
(“Coastal”), dated September 29, 2014 (“Coastal Letter”); David T. Bellaire, Esq.,
Executive Vice President & General Counsel, Financial Services Institute (“FSI”), dated
September 29, 2014 (“FSI Letter”); and Robert J. McCarthy, Director of Regulatory
Policy, Wells Fargo Advisors, LLC (“Wells Fargo”), dated September 29, 2014 (“Wells

November 21, 2014, the MSRB submitted a response to these comments. 5 This order approves
the proposed rule change.
II. Description of the Proposed Rule Change
According to the MSRB, the establishment of a requirement that brokers, dealers and
municipal securities dealers (“dealers”) seek best execution of retail customer transactions in
municipal securities will have benefits for investors, promote fair competition among dealers,
and improve market efficiency. 6 The MSRB stated that the proposed rule change reflects the
MSRB’s belief that a best execution rule should be generally harmonized with the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority’s (“FINRA”) best-execution rule, FINRA Rule 5310 (Best
Execution and Interpositioning), for purposes of regulatory efficiency but appropriately tailored
to the characteristics of the municipal securities market. 7 The MSRB further believes that, unlike
FINRA Rule 5310, it is appropriate to provide an exception from the requirements of the bestexecution rule for all transactions with SMMPs.8 The MSRB represented that the proposed bestexecution requirement generally would target the process by which dealers handle orders and

Letter”). Staff from the Office of Municipal Securities met with representatives from
BDA on October 23, 2014, and had a telephonic meeting with a representative from
SIFMA on December 3, 2014, to discuss the proposed rule change.
5

See Letter to Secretary, Commission, from Michael L. Post, Deputy General
Counsel, MSRB, dated November 21, 2014 (“MSRB Response Letter”).

6

See supra note 3 at 2.

7

Id. at 7.

8

Id.
2

execute transactions, and would complement and buttress the MSRB’s existing fair-pricing
rules. 9
1. Proposed Rule G-18
Proposed Rule G-18(a) requires that, in any transaction in a municipal security for or
with a customer or a customer of another dealer, a dealer must use reasonable diligence to
ascertain the best market for the subject security and buy or sell in that market so that the
resultant price to the customer is as favorable as possible under prevailing market conditions. 10
Paragraph (a) provides the following factors among the factors that will be considered in
determining whether a dealer has used “reasonable diligence,” with no single factor being
determinative: the character of the market for the security, the size and type of transaction, the
number of markets checked, the information reviewed to determine the current market for the
subject security or similar securities, the accessibility of quotations, and the terms and conditions
of the customer’s inquiry or order, including any bids or offers, that result in the transaction, as
communicated to the dealer. 11
Proposed Rule G-18(b) prohibits a dealer from interjecting a third party between itself
and the best market for the subject security in a manner inconsistent with paragraph (a). 12 The
MSRB stated that paragraph (b) would not prohibit the use of a broker’s broker, unless it was
inconsistent with the best-execution obligation in paragraph (a). 13

9

Id.

10

See proposed Rule G-18(a).

11

Id.

12

See proposed Rule G-18(b).

13

See supra note 3 at 10.
3

Proposed Rule G-18(c) specifies that the obligations described in paragraphs (a) and (b)
apply to transactions in which the dealer is acting as agent and transactions in which the dealer is
acting as principal. 14 Paragraph (c) expressly states that the best-execution obligations are
distinct from the fairness and reasonableness of commissions, markups or markdowns, which are
governed by Rule G-30. 15
2. Supplementary Material to Proposed Rule G-18
Paragraph .01 of the Supplementary Material specifies that the principal purpose of
proposed Rule G-18 is to promote, for customer transactions, dealers’ use of reasonable
diligence in accordance with paragraph (a). 16 Paragraph .01 also specifies that “[a] failure to
have actually obtained the most favorable price possible will not necessarily mean that the dealer
failed to use reasonable diligence.” 17 According to the MSRB, Paragraph .01 of the
Supplementary Material indicates that Rule G-18 is not intended to be a substantive pricing
standard but an order-handling standard for the execution of transactions. 18
Paragraph .02 of the Supplementary Material provides that a dealer’s failure to maintain
adequate resources (e.g., staff or technology) is not a justification for executing away from the
best available market. 19 This paragraph also states that the level of resources that a dealer

14

See proposed Rule G-18(c).

15

Id.

16

See proposed Rule G-18 Paragraph .01 of the Supplementary Material.

17

Id.

18

See supra note 3 at 11.

19

See proposed Rule G-18 Paragraph .02 of the Supplementary Material.
4

maintains should take into account the nature of the dealer’s municipal securities business,
including its level of sales and trading activity. 20
Paragraph .03 of the Supplementary Material provides that a dealer must make every
effort to execute customer transactions promptly, taking into account prevailing market
conditions. 21 In addition, in certain market conditions, a dealer may need more time to use
reasonable diligence to ascertain the best market for the subject security. 22
Paragraph .04 of the Supplementary Material defines the term “market” or “markets” for
purposes of proposed Rule G-18. 23 The term is to be construed broadly and includes, but is not
limited to, “alternative trading systems or platforms,” “broker’s brokers,” and “other
counterparties, which may include the dealer itself as principal.” 24 The MSRB represented that
the purpose of this language is to tailor the definition of “market” to the characteristics of the
municipal securities market and to provide flexibility for future developments in both market
structure and applied technology. 25
Paragraph .05 of the Supplementary Material provides that a dealer’s duty to provide best
execution in any transaction “for or with” “a customer of another dealer” does not apply in
instances when the other dealer is simply executing a customer transaction against the dealer’s

20

Id.

21

See proposed Rule G-18 Paragraph .03 of the Supplementary Material.

22

Id.

23

See proposed Rule G-18 Paragraph .04 of the Supplementary Material.

24

Id.

25

See supra note 3 at 12.
5

quote. 26 In addition, a dealer’s duty to provide best execution to customer orders received from
other dealers arises only when an order is routed from another dealer to the dealer for handling
and execution. 27
Paragraph .06 of the Supplementary Material addresses transactions involving securities
for which there is limited pricing information or quotations. 28 This paragraph requires each
dealer to have written policies and procedures that address how the dealer’s best-execution
determinations will be made for such securities in the absence of pricing information or multiple
quotations, and to document its compliance with those policies and procedures. 29 This paragraph
also provides that a dealer generally should seek out other sources of pricing information and
potential liquidity for such securities, including other dealers that the dealer previously has
traded with in the security, and generally should, in determining whether the resultant price to
the customer is as favorable as possible under prevailing market conditions, analyze other
relevant data to which it reasonably has access. 30
Paragraph .07 of the Supplementary Material provides that, if a dealer receives an
unsolicited instruction from a customer designating a particular market for the execution of the
customer’s transaction, the dealer is not required to make a best-execution determination beyond
the customer’s specific instruction. 31 Dealers are, however, still required to process that

26

See proposed Rule G-18 Paragraph .05 of the Supplementary Material.

27

Id.

28

See proposed Rule G-18 Paragraph .06 of the Supplementary Material.

29

Id.

30

Id.

31

See proposed Rule G-18 Paragraph .07 of the Supplementary Material.
6

customer’s transaction promptly and in accordance with the terms of the customer’s bid or
offer. 32
Paragraph .08(a) of the Supplementary Material requires that a dealer must, at a
minimum, conduct annual reviews of its policies and procedures for determining the best
available market for the executions of its customers’ transactions. 33 While no more frequent
interval is specifically required, a dealer must conduct reviews at a frequency reasonably related
to the nature of its municipal securities business. 34 In conducting such periodic reviews, a dealer
must assess whether its policies and procedures are reasonably designed to achieve best
execution, taking into account the quality of the executions the dealer is obtaining under its
current policies and procedures, changes in market structure, new entrants, the availability of
additional pre-trade and post-trade data, and the availability of new technologies, and to make
promptly any necessary modifications to such policies and procedures as may be appropriate in
light of such reviews. 35
Paragraph .08(b) of the Supplementary Material provides that a dealer that routes its
customers’ transactions to another dealer that has agreed to handle those transactions as agent or
riskless principal for the customer (e.g., a clearing firm or other executing dealer) may rely on
that other dealer’s periodic reviews as long as the results and rationale of the review are fully

32

Id.

33

See proposed Rule G-18 Paragraph .08(a) of the Supplementary Material.

34

Id.

35

Id.
7

disclosed to the dealer and the dealer periodically reviews how the other dealer’s review is
conducted and the results of the review. 36
Paragraph .09 of the Supplementary Material provides that the provisions of proposed
Rule G-18 do not apply to transactions in municipal fund securities. 37
3. Proposed Amendments to Rule G-48
The MSRB stated that the best-execution obligations under proposed Rule G-18 do not
apply to transactions with customers that are SMMPs. 38 The proposed amendments to Rule G-48
add a new section (e) to provide expressly that a dealer shall not have any obligation under Rule
G-18 to use reasonable diligence to ascertain the best market for the subject security and buy or
sell in that market so that the resultant price to the SMMP is as favorable as possible under
prevailing market conditions. 39 The MSRB noted that Rule G-48 is the new consolidated MSRB
rule under which all modified obligations of dealers are addressed when dealing with SMMPs. 40
4. Proposed Amendments to Rule D-15
Existing Rule D-15 contains the SMMP definition.41 The proposed amendments to Rule
D-15 provide that an SMMP is defined by three essential requirements: the nature of the

36

See proposed Rule G-18 Paragraph .08(b) of the Supplementary Material.

37

See proposed Rule G-18 Paragraph .09 of the Supplementary Material.

38

See supra note 3 at 14.

39

See proposed amendments to Rule G-48.

40

See supra note 3 at 14.

41

Under existing Rule D-15, “SMMP” means a customer of a dealer that is: a bank, savings
and loan association, insurance company, or registered investment company; or an
investment adviser registered either with the SEC under Section 203 of the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940 or with a state securities commission (or any agency or office
performing like functions); or any other entity (whether a natural person, corporation,
8

customer; a determination of sophistication by the dealer; and an affirmation by the customer. 42
The proposed amendments to Rule D-15 do not change the nature of the customer and the
determination of sophistication by the dealer, excluding minor, non-substantive revisions. 43 The
proposed amendments to Rule D-15, however, expand the existing customer affirmation 44 to
require that the customer affirmatively indicate that it (1) is exercising independent judgment in
evaluating: the recommendations of the dealer, the quality of execution of the customer’s
transactions by the dealer, and the transaction price for certain non-recommended secondary
market agency transactions; and (2) has timely access to material information that is available
publicly through established industry sources. 45 The MSRB stated that a dealer could not treat
any customer as an SMMP after the proposed best-execution rule is implemented unless the
dealer reasonably determined that the customer had given the broader affirmation required under
the proposed amendments to Rule D-15. 46 The MSRB believes that it is important that the
definition of SMMP under the proposed amendments to Rule D-15 (as under the existing rule) is
partnership, trust, or otherwise) with total assets of at least $50 million; and, that the
dealer has a reasonable basis to believe is capable of evaluating investment risks and
market value independently, both in general and with regard to particular transactions and
investment strategies in municipal securities, and that affirmatively indicates that it is
exercising independent judgment in evaluating the recommendations of the dealer.
42

See proposed amendments to Rule D-15.

43

The MSRB stated that the proposed amendments to Rule D-15 include non-substantive
(e.g., technical, conforming and organizational) revisions to accommodate the substantive
changes and improve the readability of the rule. See supra note 3 at 16-17

44

The SMMP customer affirmation contained in existing Rule D-15 requires that the
customer affirmatively indicate that it is exercising independent judgment in evaluating
the recommendations of the dealer.

45

See proposed amendments to Rule D-15.

46

See supra note 3 at 17.
9

not self-executing, nor are the contingencies for its application in the unilateral control of the
interfacing dealer. 47
The proposed amendments to paragraph .02 of the Supplementary Material to Rule D-15
would provide that the SMMP customer affirmation may be given, in addition to the existing
bases, on a type-of-transaction basis. 48
5. Implementation Period
The MSRB requested that the proposed rule change be approved with an implementation
date one year after the Commission approval date. 49 According to the MSRB, this
implementation period would allow dealers sufficient time to develop or modify their policies
and procedures and to acquire or adjust the level of their resources. 50 The MSRB also stated that
this one year implementation period would allow time for the MSRB to create educational
materials and conduct outreach to the dealer community, as appropriate, regarding the proposed
rule change. 51
A full description of the proposed rule change is contained in the Proposing Release.
III.

Summary of Comments Received and the MSRB’s Response
As noted previously, the Commission received six comment letters on the proposed rule

change and a response letter from the MSRB. 52 Commenters generally supported the proposed

47

Id.

48

See proposed amendments to Rule D-15.

49

See supra note 3 at 8.

50

Id.

51

Id.

52

See supra notes 4 and 5.
10

rule change, however, some asked for further clarification and provided suggestions to the
proposed rule change. 53
1. Use of Best Execution
SIFMA, BDA and Wells Fargo do not support the use of the phrase “best execution” in
the proposed rule change. 54 SIFMA and BDA believe that regulatory examiners and enforcement
staff will use the phrase to enforce standards that are not applicable to the municipal securities
market. 55 Also, Wells Fargo believes that the term best execution correlates with the equity
securities market and is inconsistent with the fundamental goal expressed within proposed rule
G-18. 56 Similarly, BDA believes using a term borrowed from standards applicable to other
markets that operate very differently from the municipal securities market is inappropriate. 57
SIFMA and BDA suggest removing the word “best” in certain instances and replacing “best
execution” with “execution diligence” in others. 58 Wells Fargo recommends the term “best
execution” be removed from the proposed rule language, including the title, and be replaced with
the term “reasonable diligence.” 59
The MSRB responded by highlighting that paragraph .01 of the Supplementary Material
indicates that proposed Rule G-18 is not intended to create a substantive pricing standard, but
53

Id.

54

See SIFMA Letter at 2, BDA Letter No. 1 at 3, and Wells Letter at 4.

55

See SIFMA Letter at 2 and BDA Letter No. 1 at 3.

56

See Wells Letter at 4.

57

See BDA Letter No. 1 at 3.

58

See SIFMA Letter at 2 and BDA Letter No. 1 at 3.

59

See Wells Letter at 4.
11

rather an order-handling standard for the execution of transactions. 60 The MSRB noted that
paragraph .01 of the Supplementary Material expressly provides that a failure to have actually
obtained the most favorable price possible will not necessarily mean the dealer failed to use
reasonable diligence under the circumstances. 61 The MSRB represented that “best execution” is
an established term for the concept of execution quality in customer securities transactions in
other contexts, and the standard in those contexts is similarly not a most-favorable-price
standard. 62 The MSRB believes that concerns that regulatory examiners and enforcement staff
will use the phrase “best execution” to enforce standards that are not applicable to the municipal
securities market and that are inconsistent with the MSRB’s stated intent that “the most favorable
price possible” will not necessarily be equated with the term “best execution” are speculative in
nature, and do not warrant changes to the proposed rule language. 63
2. Definition of Market
BDA believes proposed Rule G-18 broadens the concept of “market” well beyond
FINRA Rule 5310. 64 BDA believes there is no concept at all of limiting the market to market
centers or what FINRA Rule 5310 considers venues. 65 BDA believes any dealer or other
counterparty in the country can potentially constitute a “market” that needs to be considered. 66

60

See MSRB Response Letter at 2.

61

Id.

62

See MSRB Response Letter at 2-3.

63

See MSRB Response Letter at 3.

64

See BDA Letter No. 1 at 2.

65

Id.

66

Id.
12

BDA expresses concern that the proposed definition requires dealers to use their reasonable
diligence to locate the one counterparty that will pay the best price, not the best market center,
and that such a duty is more expansive than the one under FINRA Rule 5310 and too
burdensome to impose. 67 Coastal believes the definition creates an undue burden not required by
FINRA rules by defining each dealer as a market. 68 Coastal recommends wording the proposed
Rule G-18 language in line with existing FINRA rules. 69
The MSRB responded by stating that it believes that the proposed definition of “market”
is appropriate, even as compared to FINRA Rule 5310. 70 The MSRB noted that FINRA states
that its definition of “market” or “markets” in FINRA Rule 5310 also is to be construed broadly
to encompass a variety of different venues, including, but not limited to, market centers. 71 The
MSRB further stated that FINRA Rule 5310 provides that, in the absence of quotations,
“members are not relieved from taking reasonable steps and employing their market expertise in
achieving the best execution of customer orders,” and, “[i]n these instances, a member should
generally seek out other sources of pricing information or potential liquidity, which may include
obtaining quotations from other sources (e.g., other firms that the member previously has traded
within the security).” 72

67

Id.

68

See Coastal Letter at 2.

69

Id.

70

See MSRB Response Letter at 3.

71

Id.

72

See MSRB Response Letter at 3-4 and Paragraph .02 of the Supplementary Material to
FINRA Rule 5310.
13

The MSRB does not believe the definition of “market” creates a duty for dealers to use
reasonable diligence to locate the one counterparty that will pay the best price because, as
previously noted above, proposed Rule G-18 is an order-handling and transaction-execution
standard and does not contain any substantive pricing standard. 73 In addition, the MSRB noted
that paragraph .01 of the Supplementary Material to proposed Rule G-18 expressly provides that
a failure to have actually obtained the most favorable price possible will not necessarily mean
that the dealer failed to use reasonable diligence under the circumstances. 74 The MSRB believes
that the number of counterparties and/or other markets the dealer should consider would depend
on the analysis of the factors articulated in proposed Rule G-18(a), and any other facts and
circumstances that would contribute to a dealer’s identification of the best market. 75
3. Number of Markets Checked
SIFMA requests that “the number of markets checked” factor be deleted from proposed
Rule G-18(a). 76 SIFMA believes this factor is more applicable to the equities market structure of
exchanges with a central aggregator of bids and offers as well as constant liquidity. 77 SIFMA
further believes that, unlike equity markets, there is no direct continuously-quoted, bid-and-ask
trading market between bond dealers in the municipal markets, so the mere act of contacting
other dealers for quotes on fixed income securities does not necessarily result in a more timely or

73

See MSRB Response Letter at 4.

74

Id.

75

Id.

76

See SIFMA Letter at 4.

77

Id.
14

beneficial execution. 78 SIFMA disagrees with any suggestion that the act of contacting other
dealers would be the implicit or requisite procedure to evidence best execution. 79 SIFMA also
believes “the number of markets checked” is covered by another factor – “the information
reviewed to determine the current market for the subject security or similar security.” 80 SIFMA
expresses concern that “the number of markets checked” factor is inconsistent with paragraph .04
of the Supplementary Material to proposed Rule G-18, which acknowledges that a dealer itself as
principal may be the best market to satisfy best execution for the subject security. 81
The MSRB noted that while the structure of the municipal securities market is different
than the equity securities market structure of exchanges, that difference does not necessarily
reduce the value of a dealer checking multiple markets, as defined by proposed Rule G-18, to
ascertain the best market for executing customer transactions. 82 The MSRB stated that “the
number of markets checked” factor is only one factor in the non-exhaustive list of factors to be
considered, and no single factor is determinative. 83 The MSRB further stated that, depending on
the particular facts and circumstances, it could be consistent with the reasonable-diligence
standard for a dealer not to contact other dealers, however, it would be important, given the

78

Id.

79

Id.

80

Id.

81

Id.

82

See MSRB Response Letter at 4-5.

83

Id. at 5.
15

proposed rule's emphasis on complying with policies and procedures, for a dealer to have written
policies and procedures in place that address such circumstances. 84
The MSRB believes it is important to explicitly include “the number of markets checked”
factor to further the objective of promoting fair competition among dealers. 85 The MSRB does
not believe that “the number of markets checked” factor is inconsistent with the definition of
“market” in paragraph .04 of the Supplementary Material. 86 According to the MSRB, although
paragraph .04 explicitly states that the dealer itself as principal could be the best market, it does
not indicate that such a dealer would always be the best market for purposes of best execution,
and, depending on the facts and circumstances, the exercise of reasonable diligence to comply
with the proposed rule likely would regularly require a dealer to check other markets in addition
to its own inventory. 87 As such, the MSRB decided not to delete this factor from the nonexhaustive list of factors in proposed Rule G-18(a). 88
4. Securities with Limited Quotations or Pricing Information
Coastal believes proposed Rule G-18 erroneously presumes retail customers turn in
market orders to purchase specific municipal bonds in the secondary market and, consequently,
imposes unnecessary regulatory burdens on selling dealers. 89 Coastal believes, on the sell side,
there are no orders to speak of that would benefit from requiring a dealer to complete a process
84

Id.

85

Id.

86

Id.

87

Id.

88

Id.

89

See Coastal Letter at 1.
16

demonstrating best execution. 90 Coastal questions the flexibility of the proposed best-execution
standard and suggests that the requirements for securities with limited quotations or pricing
information is unnecessary. 91 Coastal recommends wording the proposed Rule G-18 language in
line with existing FINRA rules. 92
The MSRB responded by noting that the application of the proposed best-execution
standard does not hinge on whether a customer places a market order or on whether a customer
has identified a particular municipal security. 93 The MSRB believes that while many customer
orders in the municipal securities market are placed in response to offerings made by sellers out
of their own inventories, there are customer-initiated orders in the market as well. 94 The MSRB
believes that a significant benefit of the flexible best-execution standard embodied in proposed
Rule G-18 is the ability to apply to an evolving market over time. 95
The MSRB also believes that paragraph .06 of the Supplementary Material of proposed
Rule G-18, which requires written policies and procedures that address how a dealer would make
its best-execution determinations in cases of limited quotations or pricing information, is
consistent with FINRA Rule 5310. 96 The MSRB stated that the FINRA rule, with which the
MSRB has generally harmonized, does not contain further prescriptions than proposed Rule G-

90

Id.

91

Id.

92

Id. at 2.

93

See MSRB Response Letter at 6.

94

Id.

95

Id.

96

Id.
17

18 in this area. 97 The MSRB believes that including additional language would not materially
add to proposed Rule G-18, which already contains the core requirement that dealers use
reasonable diligence and is tailored to the characteristics of the municipal securities market. 98
5. Enforcement Concerns
SIFMA and Wells Fargo express concerns with how proposed rule G-18 would be
enforced. 99 SIFMA believes that the non-exhaustive list of factors to be considered by dealers
creates a de facto enforcement checklist for FINRA. 100 SIFMA questions how compliance with
“the number of markets checked” factor can be proved. 101 SIFMA members are concerned that
enforcement regulators will challenge a dealer’s trade price because the regulators will have the
benefit of hindsight and may be able to show other trades for the same CUSIP at marginally
better prices and will assert that the dealer therefore did not provide best execution. 102 SIFMA
suggests codifying the MSRB’s view that proposed Rule G-18 is not intended to create a tradethrough rule by adding the following to paragraph .01 of the Supplementary Material: “[a] failure
to consider a superior price available on another market would not necessarily constitute a
violation of the rule.” 103

97

Id.

98

Id.

99

See SIFMA Letter at 2, 4-5 and Wells Letter at 3.

100

See SIFMA Letter at 4.

101

Id.

102

Id. at 4-5.

103

Id. at 5.
18

The MSRB responded by stating that the mandatory factors in proposed Rule G-18(a)
would be considered in any examination and/or enforcement activities by regulators, but no
single factor would be determinative, and other facts and circumstances could be considered as
well in determining whether a dealer has used reasonable diligence. 104 The MSRB noted that it
would be important, given proposed rule G-18’s emphasis on complying with sound policies and
procedures, for a dealer to have written policies and procedures in place that articulate how the
dealer would exercise reasonable diligence, which should, at a minimum, include consideration
of the number of markets checked factor, as well as the others listed in the proposed rule. 105
Also, according to the MSRB, under the broad standard in proposed Rule G-18, the subsequent
discovery of a market that had better prices than the market in which a dealer executed a
customer transaction would inform a dealer’s development of its policies and procedures and
periodic review of them under Paragraph .08 of the Supplementary Material. 106 The MSRB
noted, however, a failure to consider such a market would not necessarily constitute a violation
of the proposed rule, and, as provided in proposed Supplementary Material .01, a failure to have
actually obtained the most favorable price possible would not necessarily mean that the dealer
failed to use reasonable diligence. 107 As such, the MSRB does not believe revision of the
proposed rule language is necessary at this time. 108

104

See MSRB Response Letter at 6.

105

Id. at 6-7.

106

Id. at 7.

107

Id.

108

Id.
19

Wells Fargo believes that the proposed rule language regarding a dealer’s failure to
maintain adequate resources (set forth in paragraph .02 of the Supplementary Material of
proposed Rule G-18) may create confusion over enforcement as proposed rule G-18 could be
applied inconsistently and arbitrarily based on the activity level and number of ATSs to which a
particular dealer subscribes. 109
The MSRB responded by stating that proposed Rule G-18 establishes only one best
execution standard for all dealers in the municipal securities market. 110 According to the MSRB,
paragraph .02 of the Supplementary Material, similar to FINRA Rule 5310(c), addresses the need
for dealers to devote adequate resources towards meeting their best-execution obligations, while
acknowledging that a “one-size-fits-all” approach to staffing is not required. 111
6. Request for Clarification/Guidance
BDA, FSI and Wells Fargo request guidance and/or clarification on how to comply with
the proposed rule change generally, as well as in more particular circumstances, and how to
evidence compliance to regulators. 112
The MSRB responded by stating, at this time, it is not revising proposed Rule G-18 to
include any more prescriptive provisions because doing so could negate the benefits of a
principles-based rulemaking approach. 113 The MSRB stated that while it understands the desire

109

See Wells Letter at 3.

110

See MSRB Response Letter at 7.

111

Id.

112

See BDA Letter No. 1 at 3-4, BDA Letter No. 2 at 1, FSI Letter 2-3, and Wells Letter 2-3
and 5.

113

See MSRB Response Letter at 7.
20

on the part of dealers for concrete steps to follow for their particular business models, such a
prescriptive rule might undermine the flexibility the rule is designed to provide. 114 The MSRB
represented that, if the proposed rule change is approved, the MSRB plans to provide practical
guidance on complying with the best-execution standard prior to implementation of the proposed
rule change, in coordination with FINRA. 115
7. Proposed Amendments to Rules G-48 and D-15
a) Public Comment
SIFMA and Wells Fargo express concerns that the MSRB did not request public
comment on the proposed amendments to Rule D-15 prior to filing the proposed rule change
with the SEC. 116 Additionally, SIFMA and Wells Fargo believe the SEC should have provided a
lengthier comment period. 117 Wells Fargo believes this aspect of the proposed rule change
should be withdrawn until additional time is provided. 118
The MSRB responded by noting that the SEC determines the length of the public
comment period and it provided 21 days for comment on the proposed rule change, specifically
soliciting comment on the proposed amendments to Rules G-48 and D-15. 119 The MSRB stated
that any additional solicitation of comments, prior to the SEC’s publication of a proposed rule

114

Id. at 7-8.

115

Id. at 8.

116

See SIFMA Letter at 2 and 6 and Wells Letter at 2.

117

See SIFMA Letter at 9-10 and Wells Letter at 4.

118

See Wells Letter at 4.

119

See MSRB Response Letter at 8.
21

change, by a self-regulatory organization, such as the MSRB, is not required. 120 The MSRB also
noted that it provided two rounds of public comment, focusing first on the concept of applying a
best execution standard to customer transactions in municipal securities and, second, evaluating
specific rule language articulating such standard. 121 According to the MSRB, the issues related to
the proposed amendments to Rules G-48 and D-15 are derivative of changes in response to
comments and are consistent with well-established requirements applicable to qualification as an
SMMP. 122 As such, the MSRB does not believe the proposed amendments to Rules G-48 and D15 warrant another round of comment in this rulemaking matter. 123
b) Economic Analysis
SIFMA believes the MSRB did not discuss any economic analysis as it relates to the
proposed amendments to Rule D-15. 124 SIFMA expresses concern that the proposed amendments
to Rule D-15 fundamentally alter how a dealer determines if a customer qualifies as an
SMMP.125 SIFMA suggests that the MSRB should have conducted an economic analysis
consistent with its Policy for Integrating Economic Analysis in MSRB Rulemaking (“Policy”) in
proposing the amendments to Rule D-15. 126 FSI believes that, prior to approving the proposed
rule change, the MSRB should publish a cost-benefit analysis to determine whether the proposed

120

Id.

121

Id. at 8-9.

122

Id. at 9.

123

Id.

124

See SIFMA Letter at 8.

125

Id.

126

Id. at 8-9.
22

rule change would have consequences for liquidity in the municipal securities market which
would impact retail investors. 127
The MSRB responded by clarifying that the Policy does not apply to rulemaking
initiatives, like this one, that were initially presented to the MSRB Board of Directors before
September 26, 2013. 128 The MSRB represented that it had been particularly mindful of potential
costs and burdens of the proposed rule change, and that the proposed exemption for transactions
for or with SMMPs is one such example. 129 The MSRB noted that although no economic
analysis of the proposed amendments to Rule D-15 is required pursuant to the Policy, the MSRB,
as appropriate, has provided additional analysis in the MSRB Response Letter in response to the
commenters’ concerns. 130 The MSRB, however, does not believe that the proposed amendments
fundamentally alter the conclusions of its preliminary economic analysis. 131 The MSRB further
stated that some of the costs associated with compliance with proposed Rule G-18 would be
reduced in the aggregate due to the exemption for transactions with SMMPs, as compared to an
alternative approach in which there was no such exemption. 132 The MSRB believes the costs

127

See FSI Letter at 3.

128

See MSRB Response Letter at 9.

129

Id.

130

Id.

131

Id.

132

Id.
23

associated with the amendments to Rule D-15 must be evaluated in light of the overall cost
mitigation that flows from the existence of the SMMP exemption.133
c) SMMP Customer Affirmation
SIFMA and Wells Fargo express concerns regarding the invalidation of existing SMMP
customer affirmations after the effective date of the proposed rule change. 134 BDA states that its
members believe that some if not many institutional investors will be unwilling to provide an
affirmation that has the effect of excluding them from the application of a best execution rule on
the dealer. 135 BDA recommends that the SMMP customer affirmation should be bifurcated into
two affirmations: (1) the existing SMMP customer affirmation and, if an institutional investor
provides such affirmation, the investor should be treated as an SMMP for all purposes other than
for the application of the best execution rule; and (2) an affirmation tailored just to the best
execution rule. 136 Wells Fargo believes there is no benefit to invalidating existing SMMP
customer affirmations and BDA does not see the value in expanding the existing SMMP
customer affirmations. 137
According to the MSRB, it is important for the SMMP customer affirmation to be unified
and speak to all of the modified dealer obligations. 138 The MSRB believes that unnecessary
inefficiencies and additional burdens on dealers would result from a piecemeal approach, under
133

Id.

134

See SIFMA Letter at 2, 6 and 9 and Wells Letter at 4.

135

See BDA Letter No. 2 at 1.

136

Id.

137

See Wells Letter at 4 and BDA Letter No. 1 at 3.

138

See MSRB Response Letter at 10.
24

which dealers would potentially have different customers that are SMMPs only with respect to
several different permutations of modified dealer obligations. 139 The MSRB believes this belief
is supported by SIFMA's statement that, if the SEC approves the proposed amendments to Rule
D-15 as is, or even if the affirmation did not need to be unified, some of SIFMA’s members
would prefer a unified affirmation, as it would be much easier to implement and administer. 140
Further, the MSRB believes the unified approach to the SMMP customer affirmation provides
greater protection to investors, as it would help ensure that dealer obligations would be modified
only for transactions with customers that are knowingly willing to have their dealer subject to the
several reduced obligations provided in Rule G-48. 141 The MSRB believes that this added
investor protection, as well as the mitigated costs of compliance with the best execution
obligation provided by the SMMP exemption, would justify the costs of requiring dealers to
obtain new affirmations from all SMMP customers, including existing SMMPs. 142
SIFMA, BDA and Wells Fargo express concerns regarding the operational impact of
deharmonizing the SMMP qualification process from the FINRA Rule 2111 process and
precluding dealers from satisfying the SMMP affirmation requirement by receiving a FINRA
Rule 2111 affirmation. 143 Wells Fargo believes this aspect of the proposed rule change

139

Id.

140

Id.

141

Id.

142

Id.

143

See SIFMA Letter at 2, 6-7, and 9, BDA Letter No. 1 at 3-4 and Wells Letter at 2 and 45.
25

contradicts the MSRB’s previously stated goal to seek harmony with FINRA rules. 144 SIFMA
believes an SMMP customer affirmation that mirrors FINRA’s affirmation process as closely as
possible makes the most economic sense, encourages cross-over investors, and eases dealer
compliance regimes. 145 SIFMA believes the costs of maintaining separate affirmation systems
for institutional accounts across product lines will be unduly burdensome. 146 SIFMA proposes an
alternative revision to Rule D-15 which would require dealers to have a reasonable basis to
believe that an SMMP would like to avail itself to the conveniences of SMMP status. 147 As an
alternative approach, SIFMA suggests a negative consent letter sent to institutional customers. 148
BDA and Wells Fargo also favor a negative consent approach for SMMPs effectively to opt out
of SMMP status.149
The MSRB does not believe the proposed amendments to Rule D-15 would
inappropriately deharmonize the rule from FINRA's affirmation or contradict the MSRB's
established position on SMMP customer affirmations. 150 Previously, the MSRB stated that it
“considers it desirable from the standpoint of reducing the cost of dealer compliance to maintain
consistency with FINRA rules, absent clear reasons for treating transactions in municipal

144

See Wells Letter at 4.

145

See SIFMA Letter at 7.

146

Id. at 6.

147

Id. at 7.

148

Id. at 8.

149

See BDA Letter No. 1 at 4 and Wells Letter at 4.

150

See MSRB Response Letter at 11.
26

securities differently.” 151 According to the MSRB, consistent with this goal, the proposed
amendments to Rule D-15 are aligned to harmonize with FINRA Rule 2111 but with adjustments
associated with the SMMP exemption from the best-execution obligation, as well as the other
modified dealer obligations currently covered by Rule G-48. 152 The MSRB noted that FINRA
Rule 2111(b) and paragraph .07 of the Supplementary Material thereto provide an institutional
investor exemption to the suitability obligation under that rule, which is similar to the existing
exemption dealers have from the suitability requirement of MSRB Rule G-19 under Rule G48(c), however, neither FINRA Rule 2111 nor any other FINRA rule provides a similar
exemption from best execution or any other obligations for its member firms comparable to those
included in Rule G-48. 153 The MSRB further noted that no commenter expressed an objection to
the proposed exemption from best execution under Rule G-48, and BDA and SIFMA have
explicitly endorsed the exemption in comment letters relating to the proposed rule change. 154 The
MSRB believes clear reasons exist for the proposed amendments to Rule D-15 to vary from
FINRA’s affirmation under FINRA Rule 2111, as the amendments would facilitate the
exemption supported by commenters and mitigate the burden of compliance with proposed Rule
G-18 by reducing the number of customers to which the obligation would apply. 155

151

See MSRB Response Letter at 11 (quoting from Securities Exchange Act Release No.
66772 (April 9, 2012)).

152

See MSRB Response Letter at 11.

153

Id.

154

Id.

155

Id.
27

The MSRB believes that the proposed amendments to Rule D-15 would enhance
protections to customers by addressing the full scope of modified obligations that dealers would
be relieved of performing, providing clear disclosure to SMMPs regarding the modified dealer
obligations and obtaining affirmative statements that SMMPs can, for example, exercise
independent judgment in performing the evaluations related to best execution, suitability and the
other modified dealer obligations. 156 The MSRB also believes that any changes to dealer
affirmation systems made in an effort to comply with the proposed amendments to Rule D-15
would be justified by the need to tailor the rule to the particular interests and characteristics of
the municipal securities market, which are not reflected in FINRA rules. 157 Additionally,
according to the MSRB, a negative consent letter to institutional customers would not be an
appropriate alternative, as it would be important for customers to take affirmative action to be
treated as an SMMP. 158
8. Implementation Period
SIFMA supports the one-year implementation period for proposed Rule G-18 and the
proposed amendments to Rule G-48. 159 If the SEC approves the proposed amendments to Rule
D-15, however, SIFMA requests an additional six-month implementation period. 160
The MSRB believes a one-year implementation period would be sufficient for dealers to
comply with the proposed rule change, including amendments to Rule D-15. 161 According to the
156

Id.

157

Id.

158

Id.

159

See SIFMA Letter at 9.

160

Id.
28

MSRB, one year would be adequate for dealers to develop systems, establish policies and
procedures, conduct training and obtain the expanded SMMP customer affirmations. 162
IV.

Discussion and Commission Findings
The Commission has carefully considered the proposed rule change, the comments

received, and the MSRB’s response to the comments, and finds that the proposed rule change is
consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to
the MSRB. In particular, the Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with
Section 15B(b)(2)(C) of the Act, 163 which requires, among other things, that the rules of the
MSRB be designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just
and equitable principles of trade, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in
regulating, clearing, settling, processing information with respect to, and facilitating transactions
in municipal securities and municipal financial products, to remove impediments to and perfect
the mechanism of a free and open market in municipal securities and municipal financial
products, and, in general, to protect investors, municipal entities, obligated persons, and the
public interest.
The Commission notes that its Report on the Municipal Securities Market, issued July 31,
2012, recommended that the MSRB consider a rule that would require municipal bond dealers to
seek “best execution” of customer orders for municipal securities. The Commission believes that
the establishment of a requirement that dealers seek best execution of customer transactions in
municipal securities, as required by the proposed rule change, will have benefits for investors,

161

See MSRB Response Letter at 12.

162

Id.

163

15 U.S.C. 78o-4(b)(2)(C).
29

improve market efficiency and promote fair competition among dealers. The Commission
believes that the new order-handling obligations of dealers will complement the MSRB’s
existing substantive pricing standards, helping to ensure that investors receive a price that is as
favorable as possible under prevailing market conditions. The proposed rule change is
appropriately designed to buttress existing dealer pricing obligations and promote better
execution quality for investors in municipal securities.
Moreover, the Commission believes that the proposed amendments to Rule G-48 and
Rule D-15 to effectuate the exemption for transactions with SMMPs will facilitate transactions in
municipal securities and help perfect the mechanism of a free and open market in municipal
securities by avoiding the imposition of regulatory burdens if they are not needed. In addition,
the Commission believes that the proposed rule change will protect investors by helping to
ensure that the exemption for dealers from the best-execution obligation for transactions with
SMMPs (as well as the reduced dealer obligations related to time-of-trade disclosure and pricing)
will apply only to transactions with SMMPs. The Commission believes it is important that the
definition of SMMP is not self-executing nor in the unilateral control of the interfacing dealer.
The Commission also believes that the proposed rule change is beneficial to the municipal
securities market and that the changes will enhance investor confidence and protection.
In approving the proposed rule change, the Commission has considered the proposed rule
change’s impact on efficiency, competition, and capital formation. 164 The Commission believes
that the proposed rule change includes accommodations that help promote efficiency because the
proposed rule change is designed to allow flexibility for each dealer to adapt its policies and
procedures to be reasonably related to the nature of its business, including its level of sales and
164

See 15 U.S.C. 78c(f).
30

trading activity and the type of customer transactions at issue. The Commission also believes that
the reasonable diligence standard and the SMMP customer affirmation are sufficiently flexible to
be met by a diverse population of dealers and allows a dealer to evidence compliance in a
manner that may be different from that used by another dealer. The Commission does not believe
that the proposed rule change would impose any burden on competition not necessary or
appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act since it would apply to all dealers who
engage in municipal securities transactions. The Commission also believes that the proposed rule
change takes into account competitive concerns that could arise from the diversity of dealer
characteristics because proposed Rule G-18 embodies a broad and flexible principles-based
standard. The Commission has reviewed the record for the proposed rule change and notes that
the record does not contain any information to indicate that the proposed rule change would have
a negative effect on capital formation.
As noted above, the Commission received six comment letters on the filing. The
Commission believes that the MSRB considered carefully and responded adequately to
comments and concerns regarding the proposed rule change. While commenters suggested
changes to the filing or opposed certain aspects of the proposed rule change, the Commission
notes that no commenters argued that the proposed rule change was inconsistent with the
applicable provisions of the Act.
For the reasons noted above, including those discussed in the MSRB Response Letter, the
Commission believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with the Act.

31

V.

Conclusion
IT IS THEREFORE ORDERED, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 165 that the

proposed rule change (SR-MSRB-2014-07) be, and hereby is, approved.
For the Commission, pursuant to delegated authority. 166

Kevin M. O’Neill
Deputy Secretary

165

15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2).

166

17 CFR 200.30-3(a)(12).
32

