UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77178 / February 19, 2016
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) announced the temporary
suspension, pursuant to Section 12(k) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange
Act”), of trading in the securities of AI Document Services, Inc. (“AIDC”), of Atlanta, Georgia,
Creative Edge Nutrition, Inc. (“FITX”) of Beverly Hills, California and Interactive Health
Network (“IGRW”) of Reno, Nevada, commencing at 9:30 a.m. EST on February 19, 2016, and
terminating at 11:59 p.m. EST on March 3, 2016.
The Commission temporarily suspended trading in the securities of AIDC, FITX and IGRW
because of a lack of current and accurate information about the companies. There are questions
regarding the control of the companies and trading in the securities of the companies.
The Commission cautions brokers, dealers, shareholders, and prospective purchasers that they
should carefully consider the foregoing information along with all other currently available
information and any information subsequently issued by these companies.
Further, brokers and dealers should be alert to the fact that, pursuant to Rule 15c2-11 under the
Exchange Act, at the termination of the trading suspension, no quotation may be entered unless
and until they have strictly complied with all of the provisions of the rule. If any broker or dealer
has any questions as to whether or not he has complied with the rule, he should not enter any
quotation but immediately contact the staff in the Division of Trading and Markets, Office of
Interpretation and Guidance, at (202) 551-5777. If any broker or dealer is uncertain as to what is
required by Rule 15c2-11, he should refrain from entering quotations relating to AIDC’s, FITX’s
or IGRW’s securities until such time as he has familiarized himself with the rule and is certain
that all of its provisions have been met. If any broker or dealer enters any quotation which is in
violation of the rule, the Commission will consider the need for prompt enforcement action.
If any broker, dealer or other person has any information which may relate to this matter, please
contact:
Sharon B. Binger
Regional Director, Philadelphia Regional Office
(215) 597-3107
Brendan P. McGlynn
Assistant Regional Director, Philadelphia Regional Office
(215) 597-2553

