UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78707 / August 26, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17508

:
:
In the Matter of
:
:
MICHAEL RALPH CASEY, Esq.,
:
:
Respondent.
:
:
____________________________________ :

ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
PROCEEDINGS AND IMPOSING
TEMPORARY SUSPENSION PURSUANT
TO RULES 102(e)(3)(i)(A) AND (B) OF
THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF
PRACTICE

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Michael
Ralph Casey (“Respondent” or “Casey”) pursuant to Rule102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules
of Practice.1
1

Rule 102(e)(3)(i), 17 C.F.R 201.102(e)(3)(i), provides, in relevant part, that:
The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and
without preliminary hearing, may, by order temporarily suspend
from appearing or practicing before it any attorney . . . who has
been by name:
(A) [p]ermanently enjoined by any court of competent
jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in an action
brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and
abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal
securities laws or of the rules and regulations thereunder; or
(B) [f]ound by any court of competent jurisdiction in an
action brought by the Commission to which he or she is a
party … to have violated (unless the violation was found
not to have been willful) or aided and abetted the violation
of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the
rules and regulations thereunder.

II.
The Commission finds that:
1.

Michael R. Casey, age 68, is an attorney who was previously licensed to practice law in
the State of Florida. He is currently suspended from practicing law in Florida and has
inactive bar licenses from North Carolina and Colorado.

2.

On September 5, 2012, the Commission filed a civil action seeking permanent
injunctive relief against Casey and others alleging that Casey violated Sections 5(a),
5(c), and 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), 15 U.S.C. §§77e(a),
77e(c) and 77q(a), and Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(“Exchange Act”), 15 U.S.C. §78j(b), and Rule 10b-5 thereunder 17 C.F.R. §240.10b5. Securities and Exchange Commission v. Howard, et. al., Case No. 12-cv-61731WJZ (S.D. Fla.).

3.

The Commission’s Complaint (“Complaint”) alleged that between January 2010 and
March 2011, Commodities Online, LLC (“COL”) sold participation units in
unregistered private placement offerings, each supposedly tied to a commodities
transaction in which COL had already secured a buyer and a seller of the commodity.
COL claimed these participation units would generate predetermined profits for
investors. In fact, COL performed only a limited percentage of the commodities
transactions it promised investors and operated at a loss. The President of COL
misappropriated investor funds held by COL and transferred them to an entity he
controlled.

4.

The Commission’s Complaint alleged that Casey, as outside counsel and later as
president of COL, substantially participated in COL’s fraudulent solicitation of
investors for its securities offerings. Casey personally made misrepresentations to
investors about the profitability, structure, and existence of the purported commodities
contracts. Casey falsely alleged that participation units in COL purported commodities
contracts were pre-sold, when they were not. He also made misrepresentations and
omissions to investors regarding COL’s president’s misappropriation of COL investor
funds. After COL’s former president was arrested on fraud charges unrelated to the
COL scheme, Casey made material misrepresentations to investors regarding the
former president’s role at COL, leading them to believe that he was no longer running
COL.

5.

The Department of Justice filed charges against Casey and others based on the same
misconduct alleged in the Commission’s complaint. United States v. Howard, et al.,
Case No. 12-cr-20630-JAL, (S.D. Fla.). On April 29, 2014, Casey failed to appear at
a status hearing in his criminal case and was determined to be a fugitive. The
criminal case was concluded due to his fugitive status.

6.

On February 29, 2016, the Commission filed a motion for entry of a default judgment
against Casey given his status as a fugitive. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
2

Howard, et. al., Case No. 12-cv-61731-WJZ, U. S. District Court, Southern District of
Florida. On May 31, 2016, the court, noting that Casey had fled the jurisdiction,
entered a Default Final Judgment against Casey, finding that he admitted the
allegations in the Complaint. The judgment permanently enjoined Casey from
committing future violations of the aforementioned provisions and ordered Casey to
pay disgorgement, prejudgment interest thereon, and a civil penalty.

III.
Based upon the foregoing, the Commission finds that a court of competent jurisdiction has
permanently enjoined Casey from violating the Federal securities laws within the meaning of Rule
102(e)(3)(i)(A) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. The Commission also finds that a court of
competent jurisdiction has found that Casey violated provisions of the Federal securities laws
within the meaning of Rule 102(e)(3)(i)(B) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. In view of
these findings, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest that Casey be
temporarily suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission.
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Casey be, and hereby is, temporarily suspended from
appearing or practicing before the Commission as an attorney. This Order will be effective upon
service on the Respondent.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Casey may, within thirty days after service of this Order,
file a petition with the Commission to lift the temporary suspension. If the Commission receives
no petition within thirty days after service of the Order, the suspension will become permanent
pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(ii).
If a petition is received within thirty days after service of this Order, the Commission will,
within thirty (30) days after the filing of the petition, either lift the temporary suspension, or set the
matter down for hearing at a time and place to be designated by the Commission, or both. If a
hearing is ordered, following the hearing, the Commission may lift the suspension, censure the
petitioner, or disqualify the petitioner from appearing or practicing before the Commission for a
period of time, or permanently, pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(iii).
This Order shall be served upon Casey by certified mail at his last known address.

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

