UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78197 / June 29, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4442 / June 29, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17321
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
AND SECTION 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
LEE D. WEISS,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Section 203(f) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Lee D. Weiss (“Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these
proceedings and the findings contained in Section III.2. below, which are admitted, Respondent
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940,
Making Findings, And Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Lee D. Weiss (“Weiss”) is a resident of Newton, Massachusetts. He is the owner of
Family Endowment Partners, LLC, a limited liability company based in Massachusetts and the
primary owner of Family Endowment Partners, LP (“FEP”). From June 2009 to November 2015,
FEP was registered with the Commission as an investment adviser. Weiss is associated with FEP
and serves as its managing partner. From June 2012 until February 2016, Weiss was associated as a
registered representative with MIP Global, Inc., a broker-dealer registered with the Commission and
based in Puerto Rico.
2.
On June 20, 2016, a final judgment ("Final Judgment") was entered by consent
against Weiss, permanently enjoining him from future violations, or knowingly providing
substantial assistance to future violations, of (i) Section 17(a) of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C.
§ 77q(a)]; (ii) Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder [15 U.S.C. § 78j(b)
and 17 C.F.R. § 240.10b-5]; (iii) Sections 206(1), 206(2), 206(3), and 206(4) of the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) and Rules 206(4)-2 and 206(4)-8 thereunder [15 U.S.C. §
80b-6(1)-(4) and 17 C.F.R. §§ 275.206(4)-2, 275.206(4)-8]; (iv) Section 204(a) of the Advisers
Act and Rule 204-1 thereunder [15 U.S.C. § 80b-4(a) and 17 C.F.R. § 275.204-1], in the civil
action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Lee D. Weiss, et al., Civil Action No. 1:15cv-13460-IT, in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts ("Action").
3.
The Commission’s complaint alleged as follows: between 2010 and 2012, FEP
and Weiss advised 11 FEP clients and a hedge fund, and Weiss caused a second hedge fund, to
invest more than $40 million in securities issued by subsidiaries of a French company that
purportedly had designed methods to reduce the harmful effects of tobacco smoking. FEP and
Weiss failed to disclose numerous conflicts of interest concerning the investments, including that
Weiss had a financial interest in the French company and that Weiss and entities he controlled
received more than $600,000 in payments from that company and related entities shortly after
the FEP clients and hedge funds invested in the subsidiaries. In addition, in July 2011, Weiss
also recommended that an FEP client invest $2.5 million in one of the subsidiaries, even though
he knew that the client’s money would be used to pay delinquent interest owed to other FEP
clients. The Commission’s complaint further alleged that between late 2012 and 2014, FEP and
Weiss recommended that five FEP clients invest approximately $8.25 million in notes or shares
of companies that were owned by Weiss. FEP and Weiss failed to disclose that they intended to
use these funds to pay FEP’s financial obligations, rather than benefit the companies in which the
clients invested. FEP and Weiss also failed to disclose the significant risk that the notes would
never be repaid in light of the companies’ financial condition. The Commission’s complaint also
alleged that in late 2011, FEP and Weiss recommended that FEP clients invest $5 million in a
consumer loan portfolio. Weiss structured the transaction so that a portion of the investment
proceeds, totaling more than $300,000, were paid to a purported third-party “manager.” FEP and
Weiss did not disclose to these clients that the “manager” was an inactive real estate company
owned by Weiss’s close friend, which transferred the payments it received to Weiss and other
third parties identified by Weiss.

2

Undertakings
4.
Weiss has undertaken to provide a written report, under penalty of perjury, on the
progress of any activities described in Section IV (a) – (d) below, every ninety (90) days from
the date of entry of this Order. As to Section IV (d) below, the report shall include, at a
minimum, a statement of each listed fund’s assets at both the beginning and end of the 90-day
reporting period, a listing of all sales or other transactional activity regarding such assets, and a
statement of any distributions of assets to investors that identifies what each investor received.
In addition to the foregoing, as to Section IV (d) below, every thirty (30) days from the date of
entry of this Order, Weiss will provide, under penalty of perjury, an interim report in the form
attached hereto as Attachment A. Weiss will also notify the Commission staff in writing, under
penalty of perjury, of any distributions to fund investors within three business days of the
distribution.
The reports shall be submitted to:
Antonia Chion
Associate Director, Division of Enforcement
Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, NE
Washington, DC 20549
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act,
and Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act that Respondent Weiss be, and hereby is:
barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities
dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating
organization, except that for a period of no longer than 180 days from the date of the Final
Judgment, Respondent Weiss:
(a)

may take actions necessary to recover, sell, or transfer assets owned by FEP,
MIP Global, Inc., Mosaic Enterprises, Inc., Mosaic Investment Partners, Inc. or
Weiss Capital Real Estate Group, LLC, or their subsidiaries, to satisfy their
obligations pursuant to the Final Judgment;

(b)

may take actions, consistent with the federal securities laws, to sell or transfer
his ownership interest in any investment adviser or broker-dealer, including
FEP, Chessica Asset Management LLC, Global Domain Partners LLC,
Stillpoint Capital LLC, Mosaic Investment Partners, Inc., Catamaran
Management Inc., MIP Global, Inc., and MIP Global Cayman Ltd.;

3

(c)

may take actions, consistent with the federal securities laws, to transfer to a new
investment adviser or terminate any advisory relationships of FEP, Mosaic
Investment Partners, Inc., Catamaran Management Inc., Chessica Asset
Management LLC, or Global Domain Partners LLC; and

(d)

may take actions necessary to recover, sell, or transfer assets held by FEP Fund
I, LP, FEP Fund II, Ltd., or Catamaran Holdings Fund, LP, consistent with the
terms of any partnership agreement, articles of association or private placement
memorandum governing each of those entities, and consistent with the
objectives of achieving an orderly wind-down of the entities and maximizing
the distribution of assets to affected investors, or as otherwise ordered by a
court.

With respect to Section IV (d) above, the staff may extend the 180-day period for good cause
shown. Neither Weiss nor any Weiss affiliate may receive any compensation, including any salary,
bonus or fees, from the entities or funds identified above in connection with actions taken pursuant
to Section IV (a) – (d) above.
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent Weiss be, and hereby is:
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter,
finder, consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or
issuer for purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting
to induce the purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws and
regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
Respondent Weiss shall comply with the undertakings as enumerated in Section III above.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

4

ATTACHMENT A
REPORT AS OF ______________
FUND ASSETS
FEP Fund I, LP
SECURITY

Alliance Partners Fund, Ltd.
I-DEA Investment Fund, Ltd.
Mosaic OTM, LLC
Questara Equipment, LLC
Karien Sp Zoo

QUAN.

CURRENTLY
HELD

SOLD
OR
TRANSFERRED

DATE SOLD
OR
TRANSFERRED

AMOUNT
RECEIVED

DATE
RECEIVED

RECEIVING
INSTITUTION AND
ACCOUNT NUMBER

FEP Fund II, Ltd.
SECURITY

QUAN.

CURRENTLY
HELD

SOLD
OR
TRANSFERRED

DATE SOLD
OR
TRANSFERRED

AMOUNT
RECEIVED

DATE
RECEIVED

RECEIVING
INSTITUTION AND
ACCOUNT NUMBER

QUAN.

CURRENTLY
HELD

SOLD
OR
TRANSFERRED

DATE SOLD
OR
TRANSFERRED

AMOUNT
RECEIVED

DATE
RECEIVED

RECEIVING
INSTITUTION AND
ACCOUNT NUMBER

FEP Fund I, L.P. 7%,
due 01/20/16
Knopp Biosciences LLC 5%,
due 04/01/19
Alliance Partners Fund, Ltd.
(Class A – Series 02.2014)
Alliance Partners Fund, Ltd.
(Class B – Series 03.2014)
I-DEA Investment Fund, Ltd.

Catamaran Holdings Fund, LP
SECURITY

Questara Equipment, LLC
Karien Sp Zoo

2

