Conformed to Federal Register version
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
17 CFR Part 240
Release No. 34-77104; File No. S7-06-15
RIN 3235-AL73
Security-Based Swap Transactions Connected with a Non-U.S. Person’s Dealing Activity
That Are Arranged, Negotiated, or Executed By Personnel Located in a U.S. Branch or
Office or in a U.S. Branch or Office of an Agent; Security-Based Swap Dealer De Minimis
Exception
AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission.
ACTION: Final rule.
SUMMARY: The Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC” or “Commission”) is adopting
amendments to Exchange Act rules 3a71-3 and 3a71-5 that address the application of the de
minimis exception to security-based swap transactions connected with a non-U.S. person’s
security-based swap dealing activity that are arranged, negotiated, or executed by personnel of
such person located in a U.S. branch or office, or by personnel of such person’s agent, located in
a U.S. branch or office.
DATES: Effective Date: April 19, 2016. Compliance Date: The later of (a) February 21, 2017
or (b) the SBS Entity Counting Date, as defined in Section VII of the Supplementary
Information.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Carol McGee, Assistant Director, Richard
Gabbert, Senior Special Counsel, or Margaret Rubin, Special Counsel, Office of Derivatives
Policy, at 202-551-5870, Division of Trading and Markets, Securities and Exchange
Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-7010.

1

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Commission is amending Exchange Act rule
3a71-3 (addressing the cross-border implementation of the de minimis exception to the “securitybased swap dealer” definition and the definition of certain terms) and Exchange Act rule 3a71-5
(regarding availability of an exception from the dealer de minimis analysis for cleared
anonymous transactions that fall within rule 3a71-3(b)(1)(iii)(C)).

2

I.

Background
A.

Scope of This Rulemaking

B.

The Dodd-Frank Act

C.

Relevant Proposing Releases

D.

Relevant CFTC Guidance

E.

Overview of Comments Received

II.

Economic Considerations and Baseline Analysis
A.

Baseline
1.

Available data regarding security-based swap activity

2.

Security-based swap market: Market participants and dealing structures

3.

Security-based swap market: Levels of security-based swap trading activity

4.

Global regulatory efforts

5.

Cross-market participation

B.

Economic Considerations

III.

Overview of Prior Proposals

IV.

Final Rules

A.

Overview

B.
Statutory Scope and Policy Concerns Arising from Security-Based Swap Dealing
Activity in the United States
1.

Territorial application of “security-based swap dealer” definition

2.
Policy concerns associated with security-based swap dealing activity in the United
States
3.

Existing regulatory frameworks and security-based swap dealer regulation

C.
Application of the Dealer De Minimis Exception to Non-U.S. Persons Using Personnel
Located in a U.S. Branch or Office to Arrange, Negotiate, or Execute Security-Based Swap
Transactions
1.

“Arranging, negotiating, or executing” a security-based swap transaction

2.

“Located in a U.S. branch or office”

3.

“Personnel of such non-U.S. person” or “personnel of an agent”

4.

Exception for transactions involving certain international organizations

D.
V.

Availability of the Exception for Cleared Anonymous Transactions
Economic Analysis

A.

Assessment Costs
1.

Costs associated with increase in number of firms performing analysis

2.
Costs associated with determining the location of relevant personnel who arrange,
negotiate, or execute a transaction
3

B.

Programmatic Costs and Benefits
1.

Benefits and costs of the final rules

2.

Effects of rule amendments on efficiency, competition, and capital formation

C.

Alternatives Considered
1.

Retention of the definition of “transaction conducted within the United States”

2.
Limited exception from Title VII requirements for transactions arranged, negotiated,
and executed by personnel subject to existing domestic or foreign regulatory requirements
3.
Non-inclusion of security-based swap transactions involving dealing activity in the
United States in the de minimis threshold calculations
4.

Exception for transactions entered into anonymously on an exchange and cleared

5.

Exception for transactions cleared through foreign clearing agencies

6.
Exception for transactions arranged, negotiated, or executed in the United States
merely to accommodate foreign clients’ needs when foreign markets are closed
VI.

Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification

VII.

Effective Date and Implementation

Statutory Basis and Text of Final Rules

4

I.

Background

A. Scope of This Rulemaking
In April 2015, the Commission proposed to amend certain rules and to re-propose a rule
regarding the application of Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act 1 (“Title VII”) to cross-border
security-based swap transactions and persons engaged in those transactions. 2 The proposed
amendments included rules regarding the application of the de minimis exception to the dealing
activity of non-U.S. persons carried out, in relevant part, by personnel located in the United
States, 3 and the application of Regulation SBSR 4 to such transactions and to transactions
effected by or through a registered broker-dealer, along with certain related issues. We also reproposed a rule regarding the application of business conduct requirements to the foreign
business and U.S. business of registered security-based swap dealers. 5

1

Public Law 111–203, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010). Unless otherwise indicated, references to Title VII
in this release are to Subtitle B of Title VII.

2

Application of Certain Title VII Requirements to Security-Based Swap Transactions Connected
With a Non-U.S. Person’s Dealing Activity That Are Arranged, Negotiated, or Executed by
Personnel Located in a U.S. Branch or Office or in a U.S. Branch or Office of an Agent,
Exchange Act Release No. 74834 (April 29, 2015), 80 FR 27443 (May 13, 2015) (“U.S. Activity
Proposing Release”).

3

In this release, unless otherwise noted, we use the terms “personnel located in the United States”
or “personnel located in a U.S. branch or office” interchangeably to refer to personnel of the nonU.S. person engaged in security-based swap dealing activity who are located in a U.S. branch or
office, or to personnel of an agent of such non-U.S. person who are located in a U.S. branch or
office.

4

Regulation SBSR—Reporting and Dissemination of Security-Based Swap Information; Final
Rule, Exchange Act Release No. 74244 (February 11, 2015), 80 FR 14563 (March 19, 2015)
(“Regulation SBSR Adopting Release”).

5

Each of these issues had previously been considered in our May 23, 2013 proposal, in which we
proposed rules regarding the application of Title VII in the cross-border context more generally.
See Cross-Border Security-Based Swap Activities; Re-Proposal of Regulation SBSR and Certain
Rules and Forms Relating to the Registration of Security-Based Swap Dealers and Major
Security-Based Swap Participants, Exchange Act Release No. 69490 (May 1, 2013), 78 FR 30967
(May 23, 2013) (“Cross-Border Proposing Release”).

5

In this release, we are adopting rule amendments relating specifically to the first of these
issues: the application of the de minimis exception to non-U.S. persons that are engaged in
dealing activity with other non-U.S. persons using personnel located in the United States.
Consistent with the proposal, these amendments focus on the activity of the person or persons
acting in a dealing capacity in the transaction. Specifically, Exchange Act rule 3a713(b)(1)(iii)(C) requires a non-U.S. person to include in its de minimis calculation any transaction
with a non-U.S.-person counterparty that is, in connection with its dealing activity, arranged,
negotiated, or executed by personnel of the non-U.S. person located in a U.S. branch or office or
by personnel of the non-U.S. person’s agent located in a U.S. branch or office. This test (“U.S.
Activity Test”) focuses on the location of the personnel acting on behalf of the non-U.S. person
engaged in dealing activity. This approach focuses on the activities of non-U.S. persons that are
most likely to raise the types of concerns addressed by Title VII security-based swap dealer
regulation. At the same time, it avoids the unnecessary complexity of the initially proposed
application of the de minimis exception to transactions between two non-U.S. persons based on
the location of dealing activity. The final rules do not require a non-U.S. person engaging in
dealing activity to consider the location of any activity carried out by or on behalf of its
counterparty in determining whether the transaction needs to be included in its own de minimis
calculation.
We are not addressing in this release any of the other elements of the April 2015
proposal. We anticipate addressing the remaining issues (including the application of business
conduct standards, of Regulation SBSR to certain transactions, and the application of clearing

6

and trade execution requirements more generally) in subsequent releases. 6
Further, we note that these rules complete our rulemaking implementing the de minimis
exception for security-based swap dealers. However, in the Intermediary Definitions Adopting
Release we adopted rule 3a71-2 establishing a phase-in period in connection with a person’s
status as a security-based swap dealer and other regulatory requirements arising from dealer
status. 7 We established a $3 billion notional threshold for the de minimis exception with respect
to single-name credit default swaps (“CDS”), subject to a phase-in level of $8 billion.8 During
the phase-in period Commission staff will study the security-based swap market as it evolves
under the new regulatory framework, resulting in a report that will consider the operation of the
“security-based swap dealer” and “major security-based swap participant” definitions. As we
explained in the Intermediary Definitions Adopting Release, at the end of the phase-in period, we
will take into account the report, as well as public comment on the report, in determining
whether to terminate the phase-in period or propose any changes to the rules implementing the
de minimis exception, including any increases or decreases to both the $3 billion threshold for
credit default swaps and the $150 million threshold for other types of security-based swaps. 9

6

Cf. Letter from Citadel, dated February 2, 2016, at 12 (urging the Commission to address the
scope of the Title VII mandatory clearing or trading requirement “in the context of those specific
rulemakings, rather than in an overarching cross-border rule”).

7

See Further Definition of “Swap Dealer,” “Security-Based Swap Dealer,” “Major Swap
Participant,” “Major Security-Based Swap Participant” and “Eligible Contract Participant,”
Exchange Act Release No. 66868 (April 27, 2012), 77 FR 30595, 30640 (May 23, 2012)
(“Intermediary Definitions Adopting Release”).

8

See Exchange Act rule 3a71-2. The threshold and phase-in levels for other types of securitybased swaps are $150 million and $400 million, respectively. See id.

9

See Intermediary Definitions Adopting Release, 77 FR 30640-41 and n.523.

7

B. The Dodd-Frank Act
As we have previously noted, Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act provides for a
comprehensive new regulatory framework for swaps and security-based swaps. 10 Under this
framework, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) regulates “swaps” while the
Commission regulates “security-based swaps,” and the Commission and CFTC jointly regulate
“mixed swaps.” Security-based swap transactions are largely cross-border in practice, 11 and the
various market participants and infrastructures operate in a global market. A key part of this
framework is the regulation of security-based swap dealers, which may transact extensively with
counterparties established or located in other jurisdictions and, in doing so, may conduct sales
and trading activity in one jurisdiction and book the resulting transactions in another. These
market realities and the potential impact that these activities may have on U.S. persons and
potentially the U.S. financial system have informed our consideration of these rules.
In developing these final rules, we have consulted and coordinated with the CFTC and
the prudential regulators 12 in accordance with the consultation mandate of the Dodd-Frank Act. 13
10

See U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27446.

11

See Section II.A.3, infra, regarding the preponderance of cross-border activity in the securitybased swap market.

12

The term “prudential regulator” is defined in section 1a(39) of the Commodity Exchange Act, 7
U.S.C. 1a(39), and that definition is incorporated by reference in section 3(a)(74) of the Exchange
Act, 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(74). Pursuant to the definition, the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation, the Farm Credit Administration, or the Federal Housing Finance Agency
(collectively, the “prudential regulators”) is the “prudential regulator” of a security-based swap
dealer or major security-based swap participant if the entity is directly supervised by that
regulator.

13

Section 712(a)(2) of the Dodd-Frank Act provides in part that the Commission shall “consult and
coordinate to the extent possible with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the
prudential regulators for the purposes of assuring regulatory consistency and comparability, to the
extent possible.” See Letter from Managed Funds Association, dated July 13, 2015 (“MFA
Letter”), at 4 (emphasizing need for Commission and its U.S. counterparts to develop a single,
harmonized approach to cross-border derivatives regulation).

8

We also have consulted and coordinated with foreign regulatory authorities through Commission
staff participation in numerous bilateral and multilateral discussions with foreign regulatory
authorities addressing the regulation of OTC (over-the-counter) derivatives. 14 Through these
discussions and the Commission staff’s participation in various international task forces and
working groups, 15 we have gathered information about foreign regulatory reform efforts and
their impact on and relationship with the U.S. regulatory regime. The Commission has taken and
will continue to take these discussions into consideration in developing rules, forms, and
interpretations for implementing Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act. 16
C. Relevant Proposing Releases
As discussed in further detail below, we have twice proposed rules related to the
application of the dealer de minimis calculations to security-based swap transactions that involve
14

For example, senior representatives of authorities with responsibility for regulation of OTC
derivatives have met on a number of occasions to discuss international coordination of OTC
derivatives regulations. See, e.g., Report of the OTC Derivatives Regulators Group to G20
Leaders on Cross-Border Implementation Issues November 2015 (November 2015), available at:
http://www.cftc.gov/idc/groups/public/@internationalaffairs/documents/file/odrgreportg20_1115.
pdf.

15

Commission representatives participate in the Financial Stability Board’s Working Group on
OTC Derivatives Regulation (“ODWG”), both on the Commission’s behalf and as the
representative of the International Organization of Securities Commissions (“IOSCO”), which is
co-chair of the ODWG. A Commission representative serves as one of the co-chairs of the
IOSCO Task Force on OTC Derivatives Regulation. Commission representatives participate in
joint working groups of the Committee on Payments and Market Infrastructures (“CPMI”) and
IOSCO that examine key data elements of OTC derivatives transactions and participated in the
Financial Stability Board’s review of OTC derivatives trade reporting. Commission
representatives also participate in international working groups that impact OTC derivatives
financial market infrastructures, such as CPMI-IOSCO joint working groups that assess legal and
regulatory frameworks for central counterparties and trade repositories and that examine central
counterparty resilience and recovery.

16

See Section 752(a) of the Dodd-Frank Act (providing in part that “[i]n order to promote effective
and consistent global regulation of swaps and security-based swaps, the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the prudential regulators . . .
as appropriate, shall consult and coordinate with foreign regulatory authorities on the
establishment of consistent international standards with respect to the regulation (including fees)
of swaps.”).

9

activity in the United States. In both proposals, we discussed the global nature of the securitybased swap market and explained our view that dealing activity carried out by a non-U.S. person
through a branch, office, affiliate, or agent acting on its behalf in the United States may raise
concerns that Title VII addresses, even if a significant proportion—or all—of those transactions
involve non-U.S.-person counterparties. 17
We initially proposed to require any non-U.S. person engaged in dealing activity to
include in its de minimis calculation any “transaction conducted within the United States.” 18
Thus, under the Cross-Border Proposing Release, a non-U.S. person engaged in security-basedswap dealing activity would have been required to include in its de minimis calculation any
dealing transaction entered into with another non-U.S. person that was conducted in the United
States by either the non-U.S. person engaged in dealing activity or its counterparty. In our April
2015 proposal, we proposed a modified approach to applying the dealer de minimis exception to
transactions between two non-U.S. persons based on activity in the United States that focused
exclusively on the location of personnel engaged in relevant activity in connection with a nonU.S. person’s dealing activity. 19
D. Relevant CFTC Guidance
As discussed in our April 2015 proposal, the CFTC’s Division of Swap Dealer and
Intermediary Oversight issued a Staff Advisory (“CFTC Staff Advisory”) in November 2013 that
addressed the applicability of the CFTC’s transaction-level requirements to certain activity by
non-U.S. registered swap dealers arranged, negotiated, or executed by personnel or agents of the

17

See Cross-Border Proposing Release, 78 FR 31000-01; U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR
27463.

18

Cross-Border Proposing Release, 78 FR 30999-31000.

19

See U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27459.

10

non-U.S. swap dealer located in the United States. 20 The CFTC subsequently solicited and
received public comment on various aspects of the CFTC Staff Advisory, 21 and we discussed
these comments in our April 2015 proposal. 22 On August 13, 2015, the CFTC staff extended noaction relief related to the CFTC Staff Advisory until the earlier of September 30, 2016, or the
effective date of any CFTC action addressing related issues. 23
E. Overview of Comments Received
As we discuss in more detail below, we received fifteen comment letters in response to
our U.S. Activity Proposing Release. These comment letters address a range of issues, including
the scope of the proposed U.S. Activity Test and concerns about its use as a trigger for the
counting of transactions toward the de minimis thresholds of non-U.S. persons, as well as other
issues—such as external business conduct, regulatory reporting and public dissemination, and
mandatory trade execution and clearing—that we anticipate addressing in subsequent releases.
Several commenters expressed support for our proposed U.S. Activity Test, and one commenter
20

See CFTC Staff Advisory No. 13-69, “Division of Swap Dealer and Intermediary Oversight
Advisory: Applicability of Transaction-Level Requirements to Activity in the United States”
(November 14, 2013), available at:
http://www.cftc.gov/ucm/groups/public/@lrlettergeneral/documents/letter/13-69.pdf.
In the Interpretive Guidance and Policy Statement Regarding Compliance with Certain Swap
Regulations (July 17, 2013), 78 FR 45292 (July 26, 2013) (“CFTC Cross-Border Guidance”), the
CFTC defined transaction-level requirements to include the following: (i) required clearing and
swap processing; (ii) margining (and segregation) for uncleared swaps; (iii) mandatory trade
execution; (iv) swap trading relationship documentation; (v) portfolio reconciliation and
compression; (vi) real-time public reporting; (vii) trade confirmation; (viii) daily trading records;
and (ix) external business conduct standards. See CFTC Cross-Border Guidance, 78 FR 45333.

21

See Request for Comment on Application of Commission Regulations to Swaps Between NonU.S. Swap Dealers and Non-U.S. Counterparties Involving Personnel or Agents of the Non-U.S.
Swap Dealers Located in the United States, 79 FR 1347 (January 8, 2014) (“CFTC Request for
Comment”).

22

See U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27461-63.

23

See Extension of No-Action Relief: Transaction-Level Requirements for Non-U.S. Swap Dealers,
CFTC Letter No. 15-48 (August 13, 2015), available at:
http://www.cftc.gov/ucm/groups/public/@lrlettergeneral/documents/letter/15-48.pdf.

11

expressed general support for the rules proposed in the U.S. Activity Proposing Release. 24
Several commenters, however, raised concerns about the use of the U.S. Activity Test to identify
transactions that non-U.S. persons are required to include in their dealer de minimis calculations,
arguing, among other things, that capturing these transactions would not advance the mitigation
of risk, which commenters identified as the principal concern of Title VII dealer regulation, 25
would impose excessive costs on market participants, 26 and would cause market fragmentation
and decreased liquidity for U.S. market participants. 27
II.

Economic Considerations and Baseline Analysis
These final rules will determine when a non-U.S. person engaged in dealing activity and

whose obligations under a security-based swap are not guaranteed by a U.S. person and that is
not a conduit affiliate is required to include in its dealer de minimis threshold calculations
transactions with another non-U.S. person. 28 To provide context for understanding our final
rules and the related economic analysis that follows, this section provides an overview of the
current state of the security-based swap market and the existing regulatory framework; it also

24

See Letter from Chris Barnard, dated June 26, 2015 (“Chris Barnard Letter”), at 2.

25

See, e.g., Letter from International Swaps and Derivatives Association (“ISDA”), dated July 13,
2015 (“ISDA Letter”), at 5-6.

26

See Letter from Institute of International Bankers, dated July 13, 2015 (“IIB Letter”), at 7; ISDA
Letter at 6; Letter from Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association and Financial
Services Roundtable, dated July 13, 2015 (“SIFMA/FSR Letter”), at 6; Letter from HSBC, dated
July 13, 2015 (“HSBC Letter”), at 1-3; Letter from Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association, dated January 13, 2015 (“SIFMA Sequencing Letter”), at 5.

27

See, e.g., SIFMA/FSR Letter at 2, 6; IIB Letter at 2; ISDA Letter at 5.

28

Pursuant to Exchange Act rules 3a71-3(b)(1)(ii) and (iii)(B), any transaction of a non-U.S. person
engaged in dealing activity and that is a conduit affiliate or whose counterparty to the securitybased swap has rights of recourse against a U.S. person that is controlling, controlled by, or under
common control with the non-U.S. person is already required to be counted toward the non-U.S.
person’s de minimis thresholds regardless of where personnel of the non-U.S. person arranges,
negotiates, or executes the transactions.

12

identifies economic considerations that we believe underlie the likely economic effects of these
rules.
A. Baseline
To assess the economic impact of the final rules described in this release, we are using as
our baseline the security-based swap market as it exists at the time of this release, including
applicable rules we have already adopted but excluding rules that we have proposed but not yet
finalized. 29 The analysis includes the statutory provisions that currently govern the securitybased swap market pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act and rules adopted in the Intermediary
Definitions Adopting Release, the Cross-Border Adopting Release, 30 the SDR Rules and Core
Principles Adopting Release, 31 the SBS Entity Registration Adopting Release, 32 and the
Regulation SBSR Adopting Release, 33 as these final rules—even if compliance is not yet
required—are part of the existing regulatory landscape that market participants expect to govern
their security-based swap activity. The following sections describe current security-based swap

29

We also considered, where appropriate, the impact of rules and technical standards promulgated
by other regulators, such as the CFTC and the European Securities and Markets Authority, on
practices in the security-based swap market.

30

See Application of “Security-Based Swap Dealer” and “Major-Security-Based Swap Participant”
Definitions to Cross-Border Security- Based Swap Activities, Exchange Act Release No. 72472
(June 25, 2014), 79 FR 47277 (August 12, 2014 (republication)) (“Cross-Border Adopting
Release”).

31

See Security-Based Swap Data Repository Registration, Duties, and Core Principles, Exchange
Act Release No. 74246 (February 11, 2015), 80 FR 14437 (March 19, 2015) (“SDR Rules and
Core Principles Adopting Release”).

32

See Registration Process for Security-Based Swap Dealers and Major Security-Based Swap
Participants, Exchange Act Release No. 75611 (August 5, 2015), 80 FR 48963 (August 14, 2015)
(“SBS Entity Registration Adopting Release”).

33

See Regulation SBSR-Reporting and Dissemination of Security-Based Swap Information,
Exchange Act Release No. 74244 (February 11, 2015), 80 FR 14563 (March 19, 2015)
(“Regulation SBSR Adopting Release”).

13

market activity, participants, common dealing structures, counterparties, and patterns of crossborder and cross-market participation.
1. Available data regarding security-based swap activity
Our understanding of the market is informed in part by available data on security-based
swap transactions, though we acknowledge that limitations in the data limit the extent to which
we can quantitatively characterize the market. 34 Because these data do not cover the entire
market, we have developed an understanding of market activity using a sample of transactions
data that includes only certain portions of the market. We believe, however, that the data
underlying our analysis here provide reasonably comprehensive information regarding singlename CDS transactions and the composition of participants in the single-name CDS market.
Specifically, our analysis of the state of the current security-based swap market is based
on data obtained from the DTCC Derivatives Repository Limited Trade Information Warehouse
(“TIW”), especially data regarding the activity of market participants in the single-name CDS
market during the period from 2008 to 2014. According to data published by the Bank for
International Settlements (“BIS”), the global notional amount outstanding in single-name CDS
was approximately $9.04 trillion, 35 in multi-name index CDS was approximately $6.75 trillion,
and in multi-name, non-index CDS was approximately $611 billion. The total gross market
value outstanding in single-name CDS was approximately $366 billion, and in multi-name CDS

34

We also rely on qualitative information regarding market structure and evolving market practices
provided by commenters, both in letters and in meetings with Commission staff, and knowledge
and expertise of Commission staff.

35

The global notional amount outstanding represents the total face amount used to calculate
payments under outstanding contracts. The gross market value is the cost of replacing all open
contracts at current market prices.

14

instruments was approximately $227 billion. 36 The global notional amount outstanding in equity
forwards and swaps as of December 2014 was $2.50 trillion, with total gross market value of
$177 billion.37 As these figures show (and as we have previously noted), although the definition
of security-based swaps is not limited to single-name CDS, single-name CDS contracts make up
a majority of security-based swaps, and we believe that the single-name CDS data are
sufficiently representative of the market to inform our analysis of the state of the current
security-based swap market. 38
We note that the data available to us from TIW do not encompass those CDS transactions
that both: (i) do not involve U.S. counterparties; 39 and (ii) are based on non-U.S. reference
36

See semi-annual OTC derivatives statistics at December 2014, Table 19, available at
http://www.bis.org/statistics/dt1920a.pdf (accessed July 29, 2015).

37

These totals include both swaps and security-based swaps, as well as products that are excluded
from the definition of “swap,” such as certain equity forwards.

38

While other repositories may collect data on transactions in total return swaps on equity and debt,
we do not currently have access to such data for these products (or other products that are
security-based swaps). Consistent with the Cross-Border Proposing Release, we believe that data
related to single-name CDS provide reasonably comprehensive information for purposes of this
analysis, as such transactions appear to constitute roughly 74 percent of the security-based swap
market as measured on the basis of gross notional outstanding. See Cross-Border Proposing
Release, 78 FR 31120 n.1301.
Also consistent with our approach in that release, with the exception of the analysis regarding the
degree of overlap between participation in the single-name CDS market and the index CDS
market (cross-market activity), our analysis below does not include data regarding index CDS as
we do not currently have sufficient information to classify index CDS as swaps or security-based
swaps.

39

Following publication of the Warehouse Trust Guidance on CDS data access, TIW surveyed
market participants, asking for the physical address associated with each of their accounts (i.e.,
where the account is organized as a legal entity). This physical address is designated the
registered office location by TIW. When an account reports a registered office location, we have
assumed that the registered office location reflects the place of domicile for the fund or account.
When an account does not report a registered office location, we have assumed that the settlement
country reported by the investment adviser or parent entity to the fund or account is the place of
domicile. Thus, for purposes of this analysis, we have classified accounts as “U.S. counterparties”
when they have reported a registered office location in the United States. We note, however, that
this classification is not necessarily identical in all cases to the definition of “U.S. person” under
Exchange Act rule 3a71-3(a)(4).

15

entities. Notwithstanding this limitation, the TIW data should provide sufficient information to
permit us to identify the types of market participants active in the security-based swap market
and the general pattern of dealing within that market. 40
One commenter recommended that we collect a more complete set of data to more
precisely estimate the number of non-U.S. persons that would be affected by the proposed
rules. 41 Given the absence of comprehensive reporting requirements for security-based swap
transactions, and the fact that the location of personnel that arrange, negotiate, or execute a
security-based swap transaction is not currently available in TIW, a more precise estimate of the
number of non-U.S. persons affected by this rule is not currently feasible. However, because we
assume that all transactions by dealers classified as non-U.S. persons with other persons
classified as non-U.S. persons on U.S. reference entities are arranged, negotiated, or executed by
personnel located in the United States, we believe our analysis of the available data reflects a
reasonable estimate for identifying broad market effects and estimating the number of firms that
would likely assess the location of their dealing activity. 42

40

The challenges we face in estimating measures of current market activity stem, in part, from the
absence of comprehensive reporting requirements for security-based swap market participants.
The Commission has adopted rules regarding trade reporting, data elements, and public reporting
for security-based swaps that are designed to, when fully implemented, provide the Commission
with additional measures of market activity that will allow us to better understand and monitor
activity in the security-based swap market. See Regulation SBSR Adopting Release, 80 FR
14699-14700.

41

See ISDA Letter at 3, 7 (arguing that the Commission lacks complete data to estimate the number
of non-U.S. persons that use U.S. personnel to arrange, negotiate, or execute security-based swap
transactions or the number of registered U.S. broker-dealers that intermediate these transactions
and that this “makes it difficult or impossible for the Commission to formulate a useful estimate
of the market impact, cost and benefits of the Proposal”; suggesting that the Commission
“gather[] more robust and complete data prior to finalizing a rulemaking that will have
meaningful impact on a global market.”).

42

See Section V.A.1, infra.

16

2. Security-based swap market: Market participants and dealing structures
a. Security-based swap market participants
Activity in the security-based swap market is concentrated among a relatively small
number of entities that act as dealers in this market. In addition to these entities, thousands of
other participants appear as counterparties to security-based swap contracts in our sample, and
include, but are not limited to, investment companies, pension funds, private (hedge) funds,
sovereign entities, and industrial companies. We observe that most non-dealer users of securitybased swaps do not engage directly in the trading of swaps, but trade through banks, investment
advisers, or other types of firms acting as dealers or agents. Based on an analysis of the
counterparties to trades reported to the TIW, there are 1,875 entities that engaged directly in
trading between November 2006 and December 2014. 43
As shown in Table 1, below, close to three-quarters of these entities (DTCC-defined
“firms” shown in TIW, which we refer to here as “transacting agents”) were identified as
investment advisers, of which approximately 40 percent (about 30 percent of all transacting
agents) were registered as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940
(“Investment Advisers Act”). 44 Although investment advisers comprise the vast majority of

43

These 1,875 entities, which are presented in more detail in Table 1, below, include all DTCCdefined “firms” shown in TIW as transaction counterparties that report at least one transaction to
TIW as of December 2014. The staff in the Division of Economic and Risk Analysis classified
these firms, which are shown as transaction counterparties, by machine matching names to known
third-party databases and by manual classification. See, e.g., Cross-Border Proposing Release, 78
FR 31120 n.1304. Manual classification was based in part on searches of the EDGAR and
Bloomberg databases, the SEC’s Investment Adviser Public Disclosure database, and a firm’s
public website or the public website of the account represented by a firm. The staff also referred
to ISDA protocol adherence letters available on the ISDA website.

44

See 15 U.S.C. 80b1–80b21. Transacting agents participate directly in the security-based swap
market, without relying on an intermediary, on behalf of principals. For example, a university
endowment may hold a position in a security-based swap that is established by an investment

17

transacting agents, the transactions they executed account for only 11.5 percent of all singlename CDS trading activity reported to the TIW, measured by number of transaction-sides (each
transaction has two transaction sides, i.e., two transaction counterparties). The vast majority of
transactions (83.7 percent) measured by number of transaction-sides were executed by ISDArecognized dealers.

Table 1. The number of transacting agents by counterparty type and the fraction of total
trading activity, from November 2006 through December 2014, represented by each
counterparty type. 45
Transaction
Transacting Agents
Number
Percent
share
Investment Advisers
1,425
76.0%
11.5%
- SEC registered
571
30.5%
7.7%
Banks
252
13.4%
4.3%
Pension Funds
27
1.4%
0.1%
Insurance Companies
38
2.0%
0.2%
46
ISDA-Recognized Dealers
17
0.9%
83.7%
Other
116
6.2%
0.2%
Total
1,875
99.9%
100%
Principal holders of CDS risk exposure are represented by “accounts” in the TIW. 47 The
staff’s analysis of these accounts in TIW shows that the 1,875 transacting agents classified in

adviser that transacts on the endowment’s behalf. In this case, the university endowment is a
principal that uses the investment adviser as its transacting agent.
45

Adjustments to these statistics from the proposal reflect updated classifications of counterparties
and transactions classification resulting from further analysis of the TIW data.

46

For the purpose of this analysis, the ISDA-recognized dealers are those identified by ISDA as
belonging to the G14 or G16 dealer group during the period: JP Morgan Chase NA (and Bear
Stearns), Morgan Stanley, Bank of America NA (and Merrill Lynch), Goldman Sachs, Deutsche
Bank AG, Barclays Capital, Citigroup, UBS, Credit Suisse AG, RBS Group, BNP Paribas, HSBC
Bank, Lehman Brothers, Société Générale, Credit Agricole, Wells Fargo and Nomura. See, e.g.,
http://www.isda.org/c_and_a/pdf/ISDA-Operations-Survey-2010.pdf.

47

“Accounts” as defined in the TIW context are not equivalent to “accounts” in the definition of
“U.S. person” provided by Exchange Act rule 3a71-3(a)(4)(i)(C). They also do not necessarily
represent separate legal persons. One entity or legal person may have multiple accounts. For

18

Table 1 represent 10,900 principal risk holders. Table 2, below, classifies these principal risk
holders by their counterparty type and whether they are represented by a registered or
unregistered investment adviser. 48 For instance, banks in Table 1 allocated transactions across
327 accounts, of which 23 were represented by investment advisers. In the remaining 304
instances, banks traded for their own accounts. Meanwhile, ISDA-recognized dealers in Table 1
allocated transactions across 75 accounts.

example, a bank may have one DTCC account for its U.S. headquarters and one DTCC account
for one of its foreign branches.
48

Unregistered investment advisers include all investment advisers not registered under the
Investment Advisers Act and may include investment advisers registered with a state or a foreign
authority.

19

Table 2. The number and percentage of account holders—by type—who participate in the
security-based swap market through a registered investment adviser, an unregistered
investment adviser, or directly as a transacting agent, from November 2006 through
December 2014. 49
Account Holders
by Type
Private Funds
DFA Special
Entities
Registered
Investment
Companies
Banks (nonISDA-recognized
dealers)
Insurance
Companies
ISDA-Recognized
Dealers
Foreign
Sovereigns
Non-Financial
Corporations
Finance
Companies
Other/Unclassified
All

Number
3,168

Represented by a
registered
investment adviser
1,569 50%

1,141

1,088 95%

33

3%

20

2%

800

768 96%

30

4%

2

0%

5%

6

2%

304

93%

150 65%

21

9%

61

26%

0%

0

0%

75 100%

72

53 74%

3

4%

16

22%

61

43 70%

3

5%

15

25%

13
5,011
10,900

6 46%
3,327 66%
7,021 64%

0
1,452
3,113

0%
29%
29%

7
232
766

54%
5%
7%

327
232
75

17

0

Represented by an
unregistered
investment adviser
1,565 49%

Participant is
transacting
agent 50
34
1%

Among the accounts, there are 1,141 Dodd-Frank Act-defined special entities and 800
investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940. 51 Private funds
comprise the largest type of account holders that we were able to classify, and, although not

49

Adjustments to these statistics from the proposal reflect updated counterparty and transaction
classification resulting from additional analysis of the TIW data.

50

This column reflects the number of participants who are also trading for their own accounts.

51

See 15 U.S.C. 80a1–80a64. There remain approximately 5,000 DTCC “accounts” unclassified by
type. Although unclassified, each was manually reviewed to verify that it was not likely to be a
special entity within the meaning of the Dodd-Frank Act and instead was likely to be an entity
such as a corporation, an insurance company, or a bank.

20

verified through a recognized database, most of the funds we were not able to classify appear to
be private funds. 52

Figure 1: The percentage of (1) new accounts with a domicile in the United States (referred
to as “US”), (2) new accounts with a domicile outside the United States that are associated
with a firm that also has a domicile outside the United States (referred to below as
“Foreign”), and (3) new accounts with a domicile outside the United States that are
associated with a firm that has a domicile in the United States (collectively referred to
below as “Foreign Managed by US”). 53 Unique new accounts are aggregated, and
percentages are computed, on a quarterly basis, from January 2008 through December
2014.

52

For the purposes of this discussion, “private fund” encompasses various unregistered pooled
investment vehicles, including hedge funds, private equity funds, and venture capital funds.

53

See note 39, supra (explaining how domiciles for firms were identified for purposes of this
analysis).

21

b. Participant domiciles
As depicted in Figure 1 above, the domiciles of new accounts participating in the market
have shifted over time. It is unclear whether these shifts represent changes in the types of
participants active in this market, changes in reporting, or changes in transaction volumes in
particular underliers. For example, the increased percentage of new entrants that are foreign
accounts may reflect an increase in participation by foreign account holders in the security-based
swap market, and the increased percentage of the subset of new entrants that are foreign accounts
managed by U.S. persons also may reflect more specifically the flexibility with which market
participants can restructure their market participation in response to regulatory intervention,
competitive pressures, and other stimuli. 54 On the other hand, apparent changes in the
percentage of new accounts with foreign domiciles may reflect improvements in reporting by
market participants to TIW, an increase in the percentage of transactions between U.S. and nonU.S. counterparties, and/or increased transactions in single-name CDS on U.S. reference entities
by foreign persons. 55
c. Market centers
A market participant’s domicile, however, does not necessarily correspond to where it
engages in security-based swap activity. In particular, financial groups engaged in securitybased swap dealing activity operate in multiple market centers and carry out such activity with

54

See Charles Levinson, “U.S. banks moved billions in trades beyond the CFTC’s reach,” Reuters
(August 21, 2015), available at: http://www.reuters.com/article/2015/08/21/usa-banks-swapsidUSL3N10S57R20150821.

55

As noted above, the available data do not include all security-based swap transactions but only
transactions in single-name CDS that involve either (1) at least one account domiciled in the
United States (regardless of the reference entity) or (2) single-name CDS on a U.S. reference
entity (regardless of the U.S.-person status of the counterparties).

22

counterparties around the world. 56 Several commenters noted that many market participants that
are engaged in dealing activity prefer to use traders and manage risk for security-based swaps in
the jurisdiction where the underlier is traded. 57 Thus, although a significant amount of the
dealing activity in security-based swaps on U.S. reference entities involves non-U.S. dealers, we
understand that these dealers tend to carry out much of the security-based swap trading and
related risk-management activities in these security-based swaps within the United States. 58
Some dealers have explained that being able to centralize their trading, sales, risk management
and other activities related to U.S. reference entities in U.S. operations (even when the resulting
transaction is booked in a foreign entity) improves the efficiency of their dealing business. 59
Consistent with these operational concerns and the global nature of the security-based
swap market, the available data appear to confirm that participants in this market are in fact
active in market centers around the globe. Although, as noted above, the available data do not
permit us to identify the location of personnel in a transaction, TIW transaction records indicate
that firms that are likely to be security-based swap dealers operate out of branch locations in key
market centers around the world, including New York, London, Tokyo, Hong Kong, Chicago,
Sydney, Toronto, Frankfurt, Singapore and the Cayman Islands. 60

56

See U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27449-52.

57

See IIB Letter at 2; SIFMA/FSR Letter at 6; ISDA Letter at 5. One commenter indicated that a
significant number of interdealer transactions between two non-U.S. dealers involve trades
arranged, negotiated, or executed within the United States, although this commenter did not
specifically identify what underliers these trades involved. See MFA/AIMA Letter at 7, note 34.

58

See IIB Letter at 2; SIFMA/FSR Letter at 6; ISDA Letter at 5.

59

See IIB Letter at 2; SIFMA/FSR Letter at 6; ISDA Letter at 5.

60

TIW transaction records contain a proxy for the domicile of an entity, which may differ from
branch locations, which are separately identified in the transaction records.

23

Given these market characteristics and practices, participants in the security-based swap
market may bear the financial risk of a security-based swap transaction in a location different
from the location where the transaction is arranged, negotiated, or executed, or where economic
decisions are made by managers on behalf of beneficial owners. And market activity may occur
in a jurisdiction other than where the market participant or its counterparty books the transaction.
Similarly, a participant in the security-based swap market may be exposed to counterparty risk
from a counterparty located in a jurisdiction that is different from the market center or centers in
which it participates.
d. Common business structures for firms engaged in security-based swap
dealing activity
A financial group that engages in a global security-based swap dealing business in
multiple market centers may choose to structure its dealing business in a number of different
ways. This structure, including where it books the transactions that constitute that business and
how it carries out market-facing activities that generate those transactions, reflects a range of
business and regulatory considerations, which each financial group may weigh differently.
A financial group may choose to book all of its security-based swap transactions,
regardless of where the transaction originated, in a single, central booking entity. That entity
generally retains the risk associated with that transaction, but it also may lay off that risk to
another affiliate via a back-to-back transaction or an assignment of the security-based swap. 61
Alternatively, a financial group may book security-based swaps arising from its dealing business
in separate affiliates, which may be located in the jurisdiction where it originates the risk
associated with the security-based swap or, alternatively, the jurisdiction where it manages that
61

See U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27463; Cross-Border Proposing Release, 78 FR
30977-78.

24

risk. 62 Some financial groups may book transactions originating in a particular region to an
affiliate established in a jurisdiction located in that region. 63
Regardless of where a financial group determines to book its security-based swaps arising
out of its dealing activity, it is likely to operate offices that perform sales or trading functions in
one or more market centers in other jurisdictions. Maintaining sales and trading desks in global
market centers permits the financial group to deal with counterparties in that jurisdiction or in a
specific geographic region, or to ensure that it is able to provide liquidity to counterparties in
other jurisdictions, 64 for example, when a counterparty’s home financial markets are closed. 65 A
financial group engaged in a security-based swap dealing business also may choose to manage its
trading book in particular reference entities or securities primarily from a trading desk that can
take advantage of local expertise in such products or that can gain access to better liquidity,
which may permit it to more efficiently price such products or to otherwise compete more
effectively in the security-based swap market. 66 Some financial groups prefer to centralize risk
management, pricing, and hedging for specific products with the personnel responsible for
carrying out the trading of such products to mitigate operational risk associated with transactions
in those products. 67

62

See, e.g., HSBC Letter at 2; SIFMA/FSR Letter at 6-7.

63

There is some indication that this booking structure is becoming increasingly common in the
market. See, e.g., “Regional swaps booking replacing global hubs,” Risk.net (September 4,
2015), available at: http://www.risk.net/risk-magazine/feature/2423975/regional-swaps-bookingreplacing-global-hubs. Such a development may be reflected in the increasing percentage of new
entrants that have a foreign domicile, as described above in Section II.A.2.b.

64

These offices may be branches or offices of the booking entity itself, or branches or offices of an
affiliated agent, such as, in the United States, a registered broker-dealer.

65

See SIFMA/FSR Letter at 3; HSBC Letter at 2.

66

See HSBC Letter at 2.

67

See note 59, supra.

25

The financial group affiliate that books these transactions may carry out related marketfacing activities, whether in its home jurisdiction or in a foreign jurisdiction, using either its own
personnel or the personnel of an affiliated or unaffiliated agent. For example, the financial group
may determine that another affiliate in the financial group employs personnel who possess
expertise in relevant products or who have established sales relationships with key counterparties
in a foreign jurisdiction, making it more efficient to use the personnel of the affiliate to engage in
security-based swap dealing activity on its behalf in that jurisdiction. 68 In these cases, the
affiliate that books these transactions and its affiliated agent may operate as an integrated dealing
business, each performing distinct core functions in carrying out that business.
Alternatively, the financial group affiliate that books these transactions may in some
circumstances determine to engage the services of an unaffiliated agent through which it can
engage in dealing activity. For example, a financial group may determine that using an
interdealer broker may provide an efficient means of participating in the interdealer market in its
own, or in another, jurisdiction, particularly if it is seeking to do so anonymously or to take a
position in products that trade relatively infrequently. 69 A financial group may also use
unaffiliated agents that operate at its direction. Such an arrangement may be particularly
valuable in enabling a financial group to service clients or access liquidity in jurisdictions in
which it has no security-based swap operations of its own.
We understand that financial group affiliates (whether affiliated with U.S.-based financial
groups or not) that are established in foreign jurisdictions may use any of these structures to
68

See HSBC Letter at 2.

69

We understand that interdealer brokers may provide voice or electronic trading services that,
among other things, permit dealers to take positions or hedge risks in a manner that preserves
their anonymity until the trade is executed. These interdealer brokers also may play a particularly
important role in facilitating transactions in less-liquid security-based swaps.

26

engage in dealing activity in the United States, and that they may seek to engage in dealing
activity in the United States to transact with both U.S.-person and non-U.S.-person
counterparties. In transactions with non-U.S.-person counterparties, these foreign affiliates may
affirmatively seek to engage in dealing activity in the United States because the sales personnel
of the non-U.S.-person dealer (or of its agent) in the United States have existing relationships
with counterparties in other locations (such as Canada or Latin America) or because the trading
personnel of the non-U.S.-person dealer (or of its agent) in the United States have the expertise
to manage the trading books for security-based swaps on U.S. reference securities or entities.
We understand that some of these foreign affiliates engage in dealing activity in the United
States through their personnel (or personnel of their affiliates) in part to ensure that they are able
to provide their own counterparties, or those of financial group affiliates in other jurisdictions,
with access to liquidity (often in non-U.S. reference entities) during U.S. business hours,
permitting them to meet client demand even when the home markets are closed. 70 In some cases,
such as when seeking to transact with other dealers through an interdealer broker, these foreign
affiliates may act, in a dealing capacity, in the United States through an unaffiliated, third-party
agent.
e. Current estimates of number of security-based swap dealers
As discussed above, security-based swap activity is concentrated in a relatively small
number of dealers, which already represent a small percentage of all market participants active in
the security-based swap market. 71 Based on analysis of 2014 data, our earlier estimates of the

70

See IIB Letter at 18-19.

71

See Section II.A.2.a, supra.

27

number of entities likely to register as security-based swap dealers remain largely unchanged. 72
Of the approximately 50 entities that we estimate may potentially register as security-based swap
dealers, we believe it is reasonable to expect 22 to be non-U.S. persons. 73 Under the rules as
they currently exist, we identified approximately 170 entities engaged in single-name CDS
activity, with all counterparties, of $2 billion or more. Of those entities, 155 would be expected
to incur assessment costs to determine whether they meet the “security-based swap dealer”
definition. Approximately 57 of these entities are non-U.S. persons. 74
Many of these dealers are already subject to other regulatory frameworks under U.S. law
based on their role as intermediaries or on the volume of their positions in other products, such as
swaps. Available data supports our prior estimates, based on our experience and understanding
of the swap and security-based swap market, that of the 55 firms that might register as securitybased swap dealers or major security-based swap participants, approximately 35 would also be
registered with the CFTC as swap dealers or major swap participants. 75 Based on our analysis of

72

See U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27452.

73

These estimates are based on the number of accounts in TIW data with total notional volume in
excess of de minimis thresholds, increased by a factor of two, to account for any potential growth
in the security-based swap market, to account for the fact that we are limited in observing
transaction records for activity between non-U.S. persons to those that reference U.S. underliers,
and to account for the fact that we do not observe security-based swap transactions other than in
single-name CDS. See U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27452. See also Intermediary
Definitions Adopting Release, 77 FR 30725 n.1457.

74

Adjustments to these statistics from the proposal reflect further analysis of the TIW data. Cf. U.S.
Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27452 (providing an estimate of 56 entities that are non-U.S.
persons).

75

Based on our analysis of 2014 TIW data and the list of swap dealers provisionally registered with
the CFTC, and applying the methodology used in the Intermediary Definitions Adopting Release,
we estimate that substantially all registered security-based swap dealers would also be registered
as swap dealers with the CFTC. See U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27458; SBS Entity
Registration Adopting Release, 80 FR 49000. See also CFTC list of provisionally registered
swap dealers, available at:
http://www.cftc.gov/LawRegulation/DoddFrankAct/registerswapdealer.

28

TIW data and filings with the Commission, we estimate that 16 market participants expected to
register as security-based swap dealers have already registered with the Commission as brokerdealers and are thus subject to Exchange Act and Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
(“FINRA”) requirements applicable to such entities. Finally, as we discuss below, some dealers
may be subject to similar requirements in one or more foreign jurisdictions. 76
3. Security-based swap market: Levels of security-based swap trading activity
As already noted, firms that act as dealers play a central role in the security-based swap
market. Based on an analysis of 2014 single-name CDS data in TIW, accounts of those firms
that are likely to exceed the security-based swap dealer de minimis thresholds and trigger
registration requirements intermediated transactions with a gross notional amount of
approximately $8.5 trillion, over 60 percent of which was intermediated by top 5 dealer
accounts. 77
These dealers transact with hundreds or thousands of counterparties. Approximately 35
percent of accounts of firms expected to register as security-based dealers and observable in TIW
have entered into security-based swaps with over 1,000 unique counterparty accounts as of yearend 2014. 78 Approximately 9 percent of these accounts transacted with 500-1,000 unique
counterparty accounts; another 35 percent transacted with 100-500 unique accounts, and only 22
percent of these accounts intermediated swaps with fewer than 100 unique counterparties in
2014. The median dealer account transacted with 453 unique accounts (with an average of
76

See, e.g., ISDA Letter at 5, 6.

77

Commission staff analysis of TIW transaction records indicates that approximately 99 percent of
single-name CDS price-forming transactions in 2014 involved an ISDA-recognized dealer.

78

Many dealer entities and financial groups transact through numerous accounts. Given that
individual accounts may transact with hundreds of counterparties, we may infer that entities and
financial groups, which may have multiple accounts, transact with at least as many counterparties
as the largest of their accounts in terms of number of counterparties.

29

approximately 759 unique accounts). Non-dealer counterparties transact almost exclusively with
these dealers. The median non-dealer counterparty transacted with 3 dealer accounts (with an
average of approximately 4 dealer accounts) in 2014.
Figure 2 below describes the percentage of global, notional transaction volume in North
American corporate single-name CDS reported to the TIW between January 2008 and December
2014, separated by whether transactions are between two ISDA-recognized dealers (interdealer
transactions) or whether a transaction has at least one non-dealer counterparty.
Figure 2 also shows that the portion of the notional volume of North American corporate
single-name CDS represented by interdealer transactions has remained fairly constant and that
interdealer transactions continue to represent a significant majority of trading activity, even as
notional volume has declined over the past six years, 79 from more than $6 trillion in 2008 to less
than $3 trillion in 2014. 80
The high level of interdealer trading activity reflects the central position of a small
number of dealers, each of which intermediates trades with many hundreds of counterparties. 81
While we are unable to quantify the current level of trading costs for single-name CDS, those

79

The start of this decline predates the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act and the proposal of rules
thereunder, which is important to note for the purpose of understanding the economic baseline for
this rulemaking.

80

This estimate is lower than the gross notional amount of $8.5 trillion noted above as it includes
only the subset of single-name CDS referencing North American corporate documentation. See
note 77 and accompanying text, supra.

81

One commenter criticized the analysis in the U.S. Activity Proposing Release as “appear[ing] to
suffer from certain defects” because the data implied that security-based swap dealing was not a
“customer-driven business.” See Letter from Citadel, dated July 13, 2015 (“Citadel Letter”), at 9.
We note that our current estimate of the relative size of the interdealer business, based on our
updated analysis, is somewhat lower than the 80 percent figure cited by the commenter.
Nonetheless, we continue to estimate that interdealer transactions comprise the majority of priceforming transactions. Accordingly, it remains our view that dealers play a central role in the
security-based swap market.

30

dealers appear to enjoy market power as a result of their small number and the large proportion
of order flow they privately observe.
Figure 2: Global notional trading volume in North American corporate single-name CDS
by calendar year and the fraction of volume that is interdealer. 82

Global Volume North American Corporate SingleName CDS
7

90%
80%

6

70%

Gross Notional
Trillions

5

60%

4

50%

3

40%
30%

2

20%

1

10%
0%

0
2008

2009

2010

Interdealer

2011
End User

2012

2013

2014

% Interdealer

Against this backdrop of declining North American corporate single-name CDS activity,
about half of the trading activity in North American corporate single-name CDS reflected in the
set of data we analyzed was between counterparties domiciled in the United States and
counterparties domiciled abroad, as shown in Figure 3 below. Using the self-reported registered
office location of the TIW accounts as a proxy for domicile, we estimate that only 12 percent of

82

Adjustments to these statistics from the proposal reflect additional analysis of TIW data. Cf. U.S.
Activity Proposing Release 80 FR 27453 (showing slightly different values for 2012 through
2014). For the purposes of this analysis, we assume that same-day cleared transactions reflect
inter-dealer activity.

31

the global transaction volume by notional volume between 2008 and 2014 was between two
U.S.-domiciled counterparties, compared to 48 percent entered into between one U.S.-domiciled
counterparty and a foreign-domiciled counterparty and 40 percent entered into between two
foreign-domiciled counterparties. 83
If we consider the number of cross-border transactions instead from the perspective of the
domicile of the corporate group (e.g., by classifying a foreign bank branch or foreign subsidiary
of a U.S. entity as domiciled in the United States), the percentages shift significantly. Under this
approach, the fraction of transactions entered into between two U.S.-domiciled counterparties
increases to 32 percent, and to 51 percent for transactions entered into between a U.S.-domiciled
counterparty and a foreign-domiciled counterparty. By contrast, the proportion of activity
between two foreign-domiciled counterparties drops from 40 percent to 17 percent. This change
in respective shares based on different classifications suggests that the activity of foreign
subsidiaries of U.S. firms and foreign branches of U.S. banks accounts for a higher percentage of
security-based swap activity than U.S. subsidiaries of foreign firms and U.S. branches of foreign
banks. It also demonstrates that financial groups based in the United States are involved in an
overwhelming majority (approximately 83 percent) of all reported transactions in North
American corporate single-name CDS.
Financial groups based in the United States are also involved in a majority of interdealer
transactions in North American corporate single-name CDS: Of transactions on North American
corporate single-name CDS between two ISDA-recognized dealers and their branches or

83

For purposes of this discussion, we have assumed that the registered office location reflects the
place of domicile for the fund or account, but we note that this domicile does not necessarily
correspond to the location of an entity’s sales or trading desk. See U.S. Activity Proposing
Release, 80 FR 27541 n.44. See also note 39, supra.

32

affiliates, 65 percent of transaction notional volume involved at least one account of an entity
with a U.S. parent.
In addition, we note that a significant majority of North American corporate single-name
CDS transactions occur in the interdealer market or between dealers and non-U.S.-person nondealers, with the remaining (and much smaller) portion of the market consisting of transactions
between dealers and U.S.-person non-dealers. Specifically, 79.5 percent of North American
corporate single-name CDS transactions involved either two ISDA-recognized dealers or an
ISDA-recognized dealer and a non-U.S.-person non-dealer. Approximately 20 percent of such
transactions involved an ISDA-recognized dealer and a U.S.-person non-dealer.

33

Figure 3: The fraction of notional volume in North American corporate single-name CDS
between (1) two U.S.-domiciled accounts, (2) one U.S.-domiciled account and one non-U.S.domiciled account, and (3) two non-U.S.-domiciled accounts, computed from January 2008
through December 2014.

4. Global regulatory efforts
In 2009, the G20 Leaders—whose membership includes the United States, 18 other
countries, and the European Union (“EU”)—addressed global improvements in the OTC
derivatives markets. They expressed their view on a variety of issues relating to OTC derivatives
contracts. In subsequent summits, the G20 Leaders have returned to OTC derivatives regulatory
reform and encouraged international consultation in developing standards for these markets. 84
Many security-based swap dealers likely will be subject to foreign regulation of their
security-based swap activities that are similar to regulations that may apply to them pursuant to
Title VII, even if the relevant foreign jurisdictions do not classify certain market participants as

84

See, e.g., G20 Leaders’ Final Declaration, November 2011, para. 24, available at:
https://g20.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/12/Declaration_eng_Cannes.pdf.

34

“dealers” for regulatory purposes. Some of these regulations may duplicate, and in some cases
conflict with, certain elements of the Title VII regulatory framework. 85
Foreign legislative and regulatory efforts have focused on five general areas: moving
OTC derivatives onto organized trading platforms, requiring central clearing of OTC derivatives,
requiring post-trade reporting of transaction data for regulatory purposes and public
dissemination of anonymized versions of such data, establishing or enhancing capital
requirements for non-centrally cleared OTC derivatives transactions, and establishing or
enhancing margin and other risk mitigation requirements for non-centrally cleared OTC
derivatives transactions. The rules being adopted in this release will affect a person’s obligations
with respect to the latter three of these requirements, as a person’s status as a security-based swap
dealer will affect its post-trade reporting obligations under Regulation SBSR, 86 and, as proposed,
would subject it to capital, margin, and other risk mitigation requirements under the Title VII
dealer framework, such as trade acknowledgement and verification requirements. 87
Foreign jurisdictions have been actively implementing regulations in connection with
each of these three categories of requirements. Regulatory transaction reporting requirements

85

Several commenters raised concerns about the potential for overlap or conflict of Title VII
security-based swap dealer requirements and similar requirements under foreign law. See Citadel
Letter at 8; Letter from ICI Global, dated July 13, 2015 (“ICI Global Letter”), at 8; SIFMA/FSR
Letter at 9; IIB Letter at 4, 6; ISDA Letter at 5, 10.

86

See Regulation SBSR, Rule 901(a)(2)(ii).

87

See Capital, Margin, and Segregation Requirements for Security-Based Swap Dealers and Major
Security-Based Swap Participants and Capital Requirements for Broker-Dealers, Exchange Act
Release No. 68071 (October 18, 2012), 77 FR 70213 (November 23, 2012) (“Capital, Margin,
and Segregation Proposing Release”); Trade Acknowledgment and Verification of SecurityBased Swap Transactions, Exchange Act Release No. 63727 (January 14, 2011), 76 FR 3859
(January 21, 2011). The Commission anticipates that it may address the impact, if any, of a
person’s status as a registered security-based swap dealer on the first two of those requirements
(application of the clearing requirement and trade execution requirement) in a subsequent release
or releases.

35

are in force in a number of jurisdictions including the EU, Hong Kong SAR, Japan, Australia,
Brazil, Canada, China, India, Indonesia, South Korea, Mexico, Russia, Saudi Arabia, and
Singapore; other jurisdictions are in the process of proposing legislation and rules to implement
these requirements. 88 In addition, a number of major foreign jurisdictions have initiated the
process of implementing margin and other risk mitigation requirements for non-centrally cleared
OTC derivatives transactions. 89 Several jurisdictions have also taken steps to implement the
Basel III recommendations governing capital requirements for financial entities, which include
enhanced capital charges for non-centrally cleared OTC derivatives transactions. 90
5. Cross-market participation
As noted above, persons registered as security-based swap dealers and major securitybased swap participants are likely also to engage in swap activity, which is subject to regulation

88

Information regarding ongoing regulatory developments described in this section was primarily
obtained from progress reports on implementation of OTC derivatives market reforms published
by the Financial Stability Board. These are available at:
http://www.financialstabilityboard.org/list/ fsb_publications/index.htm.

89

In November 2015, the Financial Stability Board reported that 12 member jurisdictions
participating in its tenth progress report on OTC derivatives market reforms had in force a
legislative framework or other authority to require exchange of margin for non-centrally cleared
transactions and had published implementing standards or requirements for consultation or
proposal. A further 11 member jurisdictions had a legislative framework or other authority in
force or published for consultation or proposal. See Financial Stability Board, OTC Derivatives
Market Reforms Tenth Progress Report on Implementation (November 2015), available at
http://www.financialstabilityboard.org/wp-content/uploads/OTC-Derivatives-10th-ProgressReport.pdf.

90

In November 2015, the Financial Stability Board reported that 18 member jurisdictions
participating in its tenth progress report on OTC derivatives market reforms had in force
standards or requirements covering more than 90 percent of transactions that require enhanced
capital charges for non-centrally cleared transactions. A further three member jurisdictions had a
legislative framework or other authority in force and had adopted implementing standards or
requirements that were not yet in force. An additional three member jurisdictions had a
legislative framework or other authority in force or published for consultation or proposal. See
Financial Stability Board, OTC Derivatives Market Reforms Tenth Progress Report on
Implementation (November 2015), available at http://www.financialstabilityboard.org/wpcontent/uploads/OTC-Derivatives-10th-Progress-Report.pdf.

36

by the CFTC. 91 This overlap reflects the relationship between single-name CDS contracts,
which are security-based swaps, and index CDS contracts, which may be swaps or securitybased swaps. A single-name CDS contract covers default events for a single reference entity or
reference security. Index CDS contracts and related products make payouts that are contingent
on the default of index components and allow participants in these instruments to gain exposure
to the credit risk of the basket of reference entities that comprise the index, which is a function of
the credit risk of the index components. A default event for a reference entity that is an index
component will result in payoffs on both single-name CDS written on the reference entity and
index CDS written on indices that contain the reference entity. Because of this relationship
between the payoffs of single-name CDS and index CDS products, prices of these products
depend upon one another, 92 creating hedging opportunities across these markets.
These hedging opportunities mean that participants that are active in one market are
likely to be active in the other. Commission staff analysis of approximately 4,500 TIW accounts
that participated in the market for single-name CDS in 2014 revealed that approximately 3,000
of those accounts, or 67 percent, also participated in the market for index CDS. Of the accounts
that participated in both markets, data regarding transactions in 2014 suggest that, conditional on
an account transacting in notional volume of index CDS in the top third of accounts, the
probability of the same account landing in the top third of accounts in terms of single-name CDS
notional volume is approximately 64 percent; by contrast, the probability of the same account

91

See note 75 and accompanying text, supra. See also U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR
27458; SBS Entity Registration Adopting Release, 80 FR 49000.

92

“Correlation” typically refers to linear relationships between variables; “dependence” captures a
broader set of relationships that may be more appropriate for certain swaps and security-based
swaps. See, e.g., George Casella and Roger L. Berger, “Statistical Inference” (2002), at 171.

37

landing in the bottom third of accounts in terms of single-name CDS notional volume is only 10
percent. 93
Similarly, since the payoffs of security-based swaps are dependent upon the value of
underlying securities, activity in the security-based swap market can be correlated with activity
in underlying securities markets. Security-based swaps may be used in order to hedge or
speculate on price movements of reference securities or the credit risk of reference securities.
For instance, prices of both CDS and corporate bonds are sensitive to the credit risk of
underlying reference securities. As a result, trading across markets may sometimes result in
information and risk spillovers between these markets, with informational efficiency, pricing,
and liquidity in the security-based swap market affecting informational efficiency, pricing, and
liquidity in markets for related assets, such as equities and corporate bonds. 94

93

The Commission recently revised its methodology for estimating cross-market participation of
TIW accounts. This has resulted in an increase in the reported number of accounts that
participated in both markets relative to previous Commission releases.

94

See SBS Entity Registration Adopting Release, 80 FR 49003. Empirical evidence on the
direction and significance of the CDS-bond market spillover is mixed. See also Massimo Massa
& Lei Zhang, CDS and the Liquidity Provision in the Bond Market (INSEAD Working Paper No.
2012/114/FIN, 2012), available at http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2164675
(considering whether the presence of CDS improves pricing and liquidity of investment grade
bonds in 2001-2009); Sanjiv Ranjan Das, Madhu Kalimipalli & Subhankar Nayak, Did CDS
Trading Improve the Market for Corporate Bonds?, 111 J. Fin. Econ. 495 (2014) (considering the
effects of CDS trading on the efficiency, pricing error and liquidity of corporate bond markets);
Martin Oehmke & Adam Zawadowski, The Anatomy of the CDS Market (Working Paper,
2014), available at http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2023108 (suggesting a
standardization and liquidity role of CDS markets and documenting cross-market arbitrage links
between the CDS market and the bond market); and Ekkehart Boehmer, Sudheer Chava, &
Heather Tookes, Related Securities and Equity Market Quality: The Cases of CDS, forthcoming,
J. Fin. & Quant. Analysis (2015) (providing evidence that firms with traded CDS contracts on
their debt experience significantly lower liquidity and price efficiency in equity markets when
these firms are closer to default and in times of high market volatility).

38

B. Economic Considerations
These final rules, together with our previously adopted rules defining “security-based
swap dealer” and applying that definition in the cross-border context, define the scope of entities
that are subject to the Title VII dealer requirements. Although these final rules do not define
specific substantive requirements, the scope of the definition will play a central role in
determining the overall costs and benefits of particular regulatory requirements, and of the Title
VII regulatory framework as a whole. 95 In evaluating the expected benefits and costs of our final
rules in this context, we have identified several economic considerations relevant to our analysis
that have informed our final rule, in light of the establishment in Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act
of a statutory framework to reduce risk, increase transparency, and promote market integrity
within the financial system. 96
First, as we have previously noted, the security-based swap market is a global market. 97
A significant proportion of single-name CDS transactions on U.S. reference entities is between
counterparties that are based in different jurisdictions, and these counterparties may use
personnel located in other jurisdictions to perform various functions in connection with these
transactions. 98 Moreover, dealers that carry out a global business, as noted above, have
significant flexibility in choosing how to structure their business. 99 In determining the scope of
the rules specifying which transactions non-U.S. persons must include in their dealer de minimis

95

See Cross-Border Adopting Release, 79 FR 47327 (stating that the registration and regulation of
entities as security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants would lead to
programmatic costs and benefits).

96

See Intermediary Definitions Adopting Release, 77 FR 30596.

97

See Cross-Border Adopting Release, 79 FR 47282.

98

See Section II.A.3, supra.

99

See Section II.A.2.d, supra.

39

calculations, we are aware both that non-U.S. persons engage in security-based swap dealing
activity with other non-U.S. persons in the United States and that U.S. financial groups may
choose to restructure their business to ensure that transactions with non-U.S. persons that involve
dealing activity in the United States are booked in non-U.S.-person affiliates. 100 Thus, the scope
of our final framework could have a significant effect on the number of persons that ultimately
register as security-based swap dealers and the proportion of security-based swap dealing activity
carried out in the United States that will ultimately be carried out by such dealers.
Second, the final scope of our rules, and market participants’ reactions to our rules
(including rules already adopted as part of the Intermediary Definitions Adopting Release, and
the Cross-Border Adopting Release) may affect competition between U.S.-person and non-U.S.person dealers when they engage in security-based swap transactions with non-U.S. persons. In
particular, without these rules, competitive disparities might arise between U.S.-person dealers,
which would be subject to these rules, and non-U.S.-person dealers, which may not be, even if
the non-U.S.-person dealers engage in dealing activity at levels exceeding the relevant de
minimis thresholds using personnel located in the United States. This disparity in treatment
likely would produce disparities in the costs that different types of dealers might bear, with
significant effects on the structure and integrity of the security-based swap market.
Under currently existing rules, for example, even if a U.S.-person dealer and a non-U.S.person dealer both engaged in dealing activity in the United States in connection with
transactions involving non-U.S.-person counterparties, the non-U.S.-person dealer would be
more likely to be able to engage in this activity without registering as a security-based swap

100

See Cross-Border Adopting Release, 79 FR 47285 (noting that “market participants may shift
their behavior” in response to our cross-border application of Title VII requirements).

40

dealer, 101 which would permit it, unlike the U.S.-person dealer, to avoid the costs associated with
Title VII dealer requirements, including compliance with registration, books and records, and
capital and margin requirements. To the extent that the non-U.S.-person dealer does not incur
these costs, it would be likely to be able to offer more competitive pricing to its non-U.S.-person
counterparties.
Similarly, a non-U.S. person seeking to trade in a security-based swap on a U.S.
reference entity may prefer to enter into the transaction with a non-U.S.-person dealer rather than
a U.S.-person dealer not only because the non-U.S.-person dealer may offer more competitive
prices, but also because the non-U.S. counterparty may itself incur lower costs in transacting
with a non-U.S. person dealer. For example, a non-U.S.-person counterparty may find
transacting with the non-U.S.-person dealer that is not required to register as a security-based
swap dealer to be more attractive because a transaction with that dealer may not involve a
requirement to post collateral consistent with Title VII margin requirements, particularly if it can
do so without surrendering the benefits associated with facing personnel located in the United
States.
In addition, under currently existing rules, financial groups that use non-U.S. persons to
carry out their dealing business with non-U.S.-person counterparties may be able to use profits
from that dealing business to subsidize their dealing business with U.S.-person counterparties
carried out through a registered security-based swap dealer. This cross-subsidization would

101

We note that, under Exchange Act rule 3a71-3, a non-U.S.-person affiliate of a U.S. person is not
required to include such transactions in its dealer de minimis threshold calculations if that nonU.S. person’s counterparties do not have recourse to a U.S. person under the terms of the
security-based swap and the non-U.S. person is not a conduit affiliate. See Exchange Act rule
3171-3(b)(1)(ii) and (iii) (applying the de minimis exception to cross-border dealing activity of
conduit affiliates and non-U.S. persons).

41

allow them to gain further competitive advantage over financial groups whose dealers are U.S.
persons, even with respect to transactions with U.S.-person counterparties.
These competitive disparities likely would create an incentive for financial groups
(whether based in the United States or abroad) to book security-based swap transactions with
non-U.S.-person counterparties in a non-U.S.-person affiliate while continuing to use affiliates or
agents that are located in the United States to engage in dealing activity with those
counterparties. As discussed further below, market participants may respond in different ways to
these incentives, but any such response likely would lead to significant changes in market
structure, exacerbating market fragmentation. The final amendments reflect our consideration of
the likely competitive effects of the scope of Title VII dealer requirements on participants in the
security-based swap market.
Third, as just noted, the scope of our rules may provide incentives for market
fragmentation and negatively affect liquidity and pricing in the U.S. market. Subjecting certain
transactions but not others to regulatory requirements, including the security-based swap dealer
de minimis counting requirements, may lead certain dealers to seek to limit dealing activity with
certain counterparties, to cease dealing with certain counterparties altogether, or to restructure
their dealing business to minimize the volume that it carries out in a firm that is required to
register as a security-based swap dealer. 102 One commenter noted that requiring certain
transactions but not others to be subject to Title VII requirements may lead dealers to quote less

102

See IIB Letter at 2-3; ISDA Letter at 5; SIFMA/FSR Letter at 6. See Section V.B, infra, for
further discussion of potential effects of the final rules on non-U.S. persons’ incentives to use
personnel located in U.S. branches or offices to arrange, negotiate, or execute security-based
swap transactions. See also HSBC Letter at 2 (discussing the possibility of moving securitybased swap trading relationships with non-U.S. customers from a U.S.-based affiliate to a
registered security-based swap dealer affiliate while noting the impracticability of this response).

42

competitive prices to counterparties for transactions that are subject to these requirements, 103 and
it appears that some U.S.-based financial groups, in response to similar regulatory reforms, have
already restructured their swap business to book their transactions in non-U.S.-person
affiliates. 104 Such responses by market participants are likely to fragment security-based swap
liquidity into two pools, one for U.S. persons and the other for non-U.S. persons, even if nonU.S.-person dealers continue to engage in security-based swap dealing activity with non-U.S.
persons (including other dealers) in the United States. This fragmentation could adversely affect
the security-based swap market’s ability to efficiently allocate risk among its participants, 105 as
discussed further below. 106
Depending on the final scope of Title VII application, the nature of the fragmentation
could have a particularly deleterious effect on pricing and liquidity for U.S. persons seeking to
enter into security-based swap transactions. To the extent that dealers seek to carry out
transactions with other dealers in affiliates that are not subject to Title VII security-based swap
dealer requirements, the large interdealer market, which accounts for a large majority of all
security-based swap transactions, 107 could shift to non-U.S. dealers that are not required to
register as security-based swap dealers under currently existing rules. Such a shift likely would
103

See IIB Letter at 15 (explaining that a dealer may widen its bid-ask spread for security-based
swaps that are subject to public dissemination requirements to account for the risk that, due to the
requirements the dealer may not be able to hedge the security-based swap before it is publicly
disclosed).

104

See Charles Levinson, “U.S. banks moved billions in trades beyond CFTC’s reach,” Reuters
(August 21, 2015), available at: http://www.reuters.com/article/2015/08/21/usa-banks-swapsidUSL3N10S57R20150821.

105

See note 27, supra (citing IIB Letter at 2).

106

See Section V.B.2, infra.

107

See Section II.A.3, supra, for an analysis of the proportion of the security-based swap market that
constitutes interdealer transactions. For the purposes of this analysis we classify any securitybased swap transaction between two ISDA-recognized dealers as interdealer activity.

43

exacerbate the effects of market fragmentation on U.S. market participants, as security-based
swap activity would be split into two very different pools: one very large pool of transactions
unregulated by Title VII (interdealer trades, carried out primarily by unregistered non-U.S.
persons, and transactions between unregistered non-U.S.-person dealers and non-U.S.-person
non-dealers) and one much smaller pool limited to transactions between registered dealers
(whether U.S. persons or non-U.S. persons) and U.S.-person counterparties. 108 The final
amendments reflect our consideration of the relationship between the scope of Title VII dealer
requirements and market fragmentation, including related effects on market liquidity and pricing,
particularly for U.S. market participants.
Fourth, in addition to creating an incentive for market fragmentation, applying Title VII
dealer requirements only to certain transactions carried out in the United States could affect the
integrity of the U.S. security-based swap market as well as our ability to monitor the activity of
participants in that market. To the extent that subjecting transactions involving dealing activity
carried out by personnel located in the United States increases the likelihood that a non-U.S.
person must register as a dealer, Title VII dealer recordkeeping requirements may enhance our
ability to evaluate dealers’ records for evidence of market manipulation or other abusive
practices within the United States. For example, such records, when combined with information
from other sources available to the Commission,109 could help reveal situations where a
registered security-based swap dealer is engaging in abusive or manipulative conduct with

108

Reducing the ability of market participants to find counterparties may increase bid-ask spreads.
See, e.g., Darrell Duffie, Nicolae Garleanu and Lasse Heje Pedersen, “Over-the-Counter
Markets” Econometrica, Vol. 73, No. 6 (2005).

109

Such information may include records of transactions reported to a swap data repository pursuant
to rule 901(a)(2)(ii), which subjects all transactions that include a registered security-based swap
dealer on a transaction side to regulatory reporting requirements.

44

respect to a series of transactions in which it lays off risk from a transaction with a U.S.-person
counterparty to a non-U.S.-person via an affiliated non-U.S.-person dealer, using personnel
located in a U.S. branch or office. Absent these final amendments, the affiliated non-U.S.-person
dealer might not need to register, which would inhibit our ability to evaluate the affiliated nonU.S.-person dealer’s records for the offsetting transaction with the non-U.S.-person counterparty,
or related transactions, effected by the same personnel located in a U.S. branch or office that
effected the transaction with the U.S.-person counterparty. The final amendments thus reflect
our consideration of the impact that the scope of Title VII dealer requirements under our final
rules may have on our ability to detect abusive and manipulative practices in the security-based
swap market.
Finally, the global security-based swap market is highly interconnected and highly
concentrated. 110 As we have previously described, most market participants have only a few
counterparties, but dealers can have hundreds of counterparties, consisting of both non-dealing
market participants (including registered investment companies and private funds) and other
dealers. 111 Furthermore, as we have described above, a majority of security-based swap trades
are dealer-to-dealer, rather than dealer-to-non-dealer or non-dealer-to-non-dealer, and a large
fraction of single-name CDS volume is between counterparties domiciled in different
jurisdictions. 112 This interconnectedness facilitates the use of security-based swaps as a tool for
sharing financial and commercial risks. The global scale of the security-based swap market
110

See Section II.A.2.a, supra. See also Cross-Border Adopting Release, 79 FR 47283.

111

See Cross-Border Adopting Release, 79 FR 47283. Based on an analysis of 2014 transaction data
by staff in the Division of Economic and Risk Analysis, the median account associated with
market participants recognized by ISDA as dealers had 453 counterparties. The median of all
other accounts (i.e., those more likely to belong to non-dealers) was 3 counterparties. See Section
II.A.3, supra.

112

See Section II.A.3, supra. See also Cross-Border Adopting Release, 79 FR 47283.

45

allows counterparties to access liquidity across jurisdictional boundaries, providing U.S. market
participants with opportunities to share these risks with counterparties around the world. 113
However, as we have also noted, these opportunities for international risk sharing also
represent channels for risk transmission. 114 In other words, the interconnectedness of securitybased swap market participants provides paths for both liquidity and risk to flow throughout the
system, meaning that it can be difficult to isolate risks to a particular entity or geographic
segment. Because dealers facilitate the great majority of security-based swap transactions, with
bilateral relationships that extend to potentially thousands of counterparties, liquidity problems
or other forms of financial distress that begin in one entity or one corner of the globe can
potentially spread throughout the network, with dealers as a central conduit. 115
As we have previously recognized, a non-U.S.-person dealer affiliated with a U.S.
financial group may pose “reputational risk” to its U.S. parent, irrespective of the existence of
any explicit guarantee from a U.S. person. 116 This risk may affect the U.S. financial system in a
number of ways. Specifically, if market participants generally expect a U.S. financial group to
provide support to a foreign affiliate engaged in security-based swap dealing activity for reasons

113

See Cross-Border Adopting Release, 79 FR 47283.

114

See id. As discussed in more detail below, several commenters argued that the Commission
should not finalize the proposed rules because they encompassed transactions that pose no risk to
the United States. See notes 159-160 and accompanying text, infra (citing IIB Letter at 3, 5;
ISDA Letter at 4, 5-6, SIFMA/FSR Letter at 5; and HSBC Letter at 3).

115

We have previously stated that spillover and contagion risks are important characteristics of the
security-based swap market that are important considerations in our rulemaking. See CrossBorder Adopting Release, 79 FR 47284. In particular, given the structure of the security-based
swap market and the concentration of security-based swap dealing activities among a relatively
small number of firms, “the failure of a single large firm active in the security-based swap market
can have consequences beyond the firm itself,” including that risk may eventually “spill over into
other jurisdictions and even other markets in which security-based swap dealers participate.” See
id.

116

See U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27482.

46

other than fulfilling obligations arising from an express guarantee from the U.S. financial group,
financial contagion may spread to U.S. financial markets through the U.S. financial group,
regardless of whether the U.S. parent financial group decides to support its foreign affiliate. If
the U.S. financial group supports its foreign affiliate by bringing the foreign affiliate’s liabilities
onto its balance sheet, the resulting capital deficiencies on the parent’s balance sheet may reduce
its creditworthiness and increase the U.S. financial group’s risk of default. Alternatively, if the
financial group acts contrary to the expectations of market participants by deciding not to support
the foreign affiliate, this could be viewed as a negative signal by investors about the U.S.
financial group’s risk of default. Consequently, even though the U.S. financial group is not
exposed to any counterparty credit risk arising from its foreign affiliate’s security-based swap
transactions, it may still be exposed to reputational risk from its foreign affiliates engaged in
security-based swap activity. The final amendments reflect our consideration of the likely
effects of the scope of Title VII dealer requirements on the degree of reputational risk posed to
U.S. persons by their foreign affiliates. 117
Another potential channel of the propagation of risk is through liquidity shocks from the
failure of one market participant to other participants in the same market. 118 In a highly
concentrated market, the failure of a key liquidity provider poses a particularly high risk of
propagating this kind of shock not only to its counterparties but to other participants, including
117

See Section IV.B.2, infra (noting, among other things, that, as the market develops, foreign
affiliates that might otherwise avoid Title VII dealer requirements, including margin, may be
required to register as security-based swap dealers because they arrange, negotiate, or execute
transactions in connection with their dealing activity using personnel located in the United
States).

118

See Cross-Border Adopting Release, 79 FR 47284 (noting that “the failure of a single large firm
active in the security-based swap market can have consequences beyond the firm itself” and that
“[o]ne firm’s default may reduce the willingness of dealers to trade with, or extend credit to, both
non-dealers and other dealers”).

47

other dealers. To the extent that U.S. persons are significant participants in the market, the
liquidity shock may propagate to these U.S. persons, and from these U.S. persons to the U.S.
financial system as a whole, even if the liquidity shock originates with the failure of a non-U.S.
person liquidity provider. As already discussed, the security-based swap market is highly
concentrated, with a relatively small number of dealers responsible for most of the activity in the
market. Moreover, security-based swap activity carried out in U.S. market centers largely
involves security-based swaps on U.S. reference entities, 119 and the overwhelming majority of
non-dealer counterparties to these transactions are U.S. persons; similarly, a significant
proportion of the dealers active in this market are either U.S. persons or foreign affiliates of U.S.
financial groups. 120 In light of these market characteristics, we have considered the potential
propagation of such risks through the failure of one or more non-U.S. persons engaged in dealing
activity in the United States. 121
III.

Overview of Prior Proposals
The Exchange Act excepts from designation as a “security-based swap dealer” an entity

that engages in a “de minimis” quantity of security-based swap dealing activity with or on behalf
of customers. 122 Under the final rules adopted in the Intermediary Definitions Adopting Release,
a person may take advantage of that exception if, in connection with CDS that constitute
security-based swaps, the person’s dealing activity over the preceding 12 months does not

119

See note 57 and accompanying text, supra.

120

See Section II.A.3, supra.

121

For more on liquidity shocks and contagion, see Rodrigo Valdés, “Emerging Market Contagion:
Evidence and Theory” (1996). See also Guillermo Calvo and Enrique Mendoza, “Contagion,
Globalization, and the Volatility of Capital Flows,” Capital Flows and the Emerging Economies
(2000).

122

See Exchange Act section 3(a)(71)(D).

48

exceed a gross notional amount of $3 billion, subject to a phase-in level of $8 billion. 123 The
phase-in level will remain in place until—following a study regarding the definitions of
“security-based swap dealer” and “major security-based swap participant”—we either terminate
the phase-in period or establish an alternative threshold following rulemaking. 124
As noted above, we have twice proposed rules to address the application of the securitybased swap dealer de minimis exception to transactions between two non-U.S. persons on the
basis of activity in the United States. 125 In the Cross-Border Proposing Release, we stated that a
non-U.S. person engaged in dealing activity through a U.S. branch, office, or affiliate or by a
non-U.S. person that otherwise engages in security-based swap dealing activity in the United
States, particularly at levels exceeding the relevant de minimis thresholds, may raise concerns
that Title VII addresses, even if a significant proportion—or all—of its transactions involve nonU.S.-person counterparties. 126 Accordingly, we initially proposed to require any non-U.S.
person to include in its de minimis calculation any security-based swap transaction connected
with its dealing activities that is a “transaction conducted within the United States.” 127 We
proposed to define “transaction conducted within the United States” as any “security-based swap
123

See Exchange Act rule 3a71-2(a)(1)(i). Lower thresholds are set forth in connection with dealing
activity involving other types of security-based swaps. See Exchange Act rule 3a71-2(a)(1)(ii).

124

See Intermediary Definitions Adopting Release, 77 FR 30640-41. Exchange Act rule 3a71-2
establishes a phase-in period during which the de minimis threshold for CDS will be $8 billion
and during which Commission staff will study the security-based swap market as it evolves under
the new regulatory framework, resulting in a report that will consider the operation of the
“security-based swap dealer” and “major security-based swap participant” definitions. In that
release we explained that, at the end of the phase-in period, we will take into account the report,
as well as public comment on the report, in determining whether to terminate the phase-in period
or propose any changes to the rule implementing the de minimis exception, including any
increases or decreases to the $3 billion threshold. See id. at 30640.

125

See Cross-Border Proposing Release, 78 FR 30999; U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR
27444.

126

See Cross-Border Proposing Release, 78 FR 31000-01.

127

See initially proposed Exchange Act rule 3a71-3(b)(1)(ii).

49

transaction that is solicited, negotiated, executed, or booked within the United States, by or on
behalf of either counterparty to the transaction, regardless of the location, domicile, or residence
status of either counterparty to the transaction.” 128 Thus, under this initially proposed definition,
a non-U.S. person engaged in dealing activity would have been required to include in its de
minimis calculation any dealing transaction entered into with another non-U.S. person that was
conducted in the United States by either the non-U.S. person engaged in dealing activity or its
counterparty or an agent of either the dealer or the counterparty. 129 Given the number of
concerns raised by commenters in connection with this element of the Cross-Border Proposing
Release, we subsequently determined that final resolution of this issue would benefit from
further consideration and public comment. 130 Accordingly, we did not address this issue in our
Cross-Border Adopting Release.
In light of comments received on the initial proposal, subsequent regulatory and other
developments in the security-based swap market, and further consideration of policy concerns
arising from these transactions, we proposed a modified approach in April 2015 that would
amend Exchange Act rule 3a71-3 to address the regulatory concerns associated with dealing
activity in the United States while mitigating many of the concerns expressed by commenters on
the initial proposal. The modified approach did not include the initially proposed defined term
“transaction conducted in the United States” and would not require a non-U.S. person engaging

128

See initially proposed Exchange Act rule 3a71-3(a)(5). See also Cross-Border Proposing
Release, 78 FR 30999-31000.

129

The initially proposed definition of “transaction conducted within the United States” did not
include submitting a transaction for clearing in the United States, reporting a transaction to a
security-based swap data repository in the United States, or performing collateral management
activities (such as exchanging margin) within the United States. See Cross-Border Proposing
Release, 78 FR 31000.

130

See, e.g., Cross-Border Adopting Release, 79 FR 47280.

50

in dealing activity to consider the location of its non-U.S.-person counterparty or that
counterparty’s agent in determining whether the transaction needs to be included in its own de
minimis calculation. Instead, we proposed to require a non-U.S. person to include in its de
minimis calculation any transaction connected with its security-based swap dealing activity that
it enters into with a non-U.S.-person counterparty only when the transaction is arranged,
negotiated, or executed by personnel of the non-U.S. person located in a U.S. branch or office, or
by personnel of such person’s agent located in a U.S. branch or office. 131
Various statutory and policy concerns underpinned our proposed revisions to the initial
approach. We noted in the U.S. Activity Proposing Release that requiring non-U.S. persons to
include such transactions in their de minimis threshold calculations would help to ensure that all
persons that engage in significant relevant dealing activity, including activity engaged in by
personnel located in a U.S. branch or office, are required to register as security-based swap
dealers and to comply with relevant Title VII requirements applicable to security-based swap
dealers. 132 We also explained that subjecting security-based swap activity involving activity in
the United States to Title VII, even when a transaction is between two non-U.S. persons, is
consistent with Section 30(c) of the Exchange Act and is appropriate under a territorial
approach. 133 We also noted that the modified approach would prevent market participants from
engaging in significant dealing activity in the United States while avoiding Title VII by booking

131

See proposed Exchange Act rule 3a71-3(b)(1)(iii)(C).

132

See U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27467.

133

See id. at 27464.

51

such transactions in non-U.S. person dealers who are not conduit affiliates and whose obligations
under such transactions are not guaranteed by a U.S. person. 134
IV.

Final Rules

A. Overview
Having carefully considered comments received in response to our proposal as well as
the objectives of Title VII dealer regulation and recent regulatory and market developments
(including market participants’ responses to the implementation of regulatory reforms of the
OTC derivatives markets), 135 we are amending Exchange Act rules 3a71-3 and 3a71-5 in a
manner generally consistent with the amendments proposed in our U.S. Activity Proposing
Release. 136 As discussed in the proposal, Exchange Act rule 3a71-3, as amended, focuses on
certain activity carried out, at least in part, by personnel located in the United States in
connection with a non-U.S. person’s dealing activity, but it does not require a non-U.S. person
engaging in dealing activity to consider the location of its non-U.S.-person counterparty or that
counterparty’s agent in determining whether the transaction needs to be included in its own de
minimis calculation. Specifically, the amendment to final rule 3a71-3(b) requires a non-U.S.
person to include in its de minimis calculation any transaction connected with its security-based
swap dealing activity that it enters into with a non-U.S.-person counterparty only when the
transaction is arranged, negotiated, or executed by that person’s personnel who are located in a

134

See id. at 27465. As we have stated elsewhere, the transactions of a guaranteed non-U.S. person
exist, at least in part, within the United States, and the economic reality of these transactions is
substantially identical to transactions entered into directly by a U.S. person (including through a
foreign branch). See Regulation SBSR Adopting Release, 80 FR 14651. See also Cross-Border
Adopting Release, 79 FR 47289-90.

135

See note 164, infra (noting our understanding that some U.S.-based financial groups have
restructured their swap business to book their transactions in non-U.S. person affiliates).

136

See Exchange Act rule 3a71-3(b)(1)(iii)(C); Exchange Act rule 3a71-5(c).

52

U.S. branch or office, or by its agent’s personnel who are located in a U.S. branch or office. 137
Final Exchange Act rule 3a71-5(c) makes the exception for cleared anonymous transactions
unavailable for trades that non-U.S. persons are required to count under proposed Exchange Act
rule 3a71-3(b)(1)(iii)(C). 138 The following sections discuss these rules, as well as guidance
regarding the application of Exchange Act rule 3a71-3(b)(1)(iii)(C) to specific categories of
transactions raised by commenters.
B. Statutory Scope and Policy Concerns Arising from Security-Based Swap Dealing
Activity in the United States
1. Territorial application of “security-based swap dealer” definition
Some commenters have suggested that the modified approach to the de minimis
exception set forth in our U.S. Activity Proposing Release would impose U.S. regulation on
transactions and market participants lacking a sufficient “nexus” to the United States or to the
U.S. financial system and, consequently, would produce few or no benefits. 139 Several
commenters argued that the primary focus of the security-based swap dealer registration regime
is on protecting U.S. market participants, and the market as a whole, against risk and that these
transactions lack a sufficient “nexus” to the United States and to the U.S. financial system

137

See Exchange Act rule 3a71-3(b)(1)(iii)(C). The final rule does not incorporate a broker-dealer
exception as requested by some commenters, but it does except transactions connected with the
dealing activity of those international organizations excluded from the definition of U.S. person
in Exchange Act rule 3a71-3(a)(4)(iii). See Section IV.C.4, infra.

138

See Exchange Act rule 3a71-5(c).

139

See ISDA Letter at 4-5 (arguing that the proposed rule would capture firms that “have no material
connection with the United States”); SIFMA/FSR Letter at 5 (arguing that “[a] non-U.S. entity
should not be required to count a security-based swap toward its security-based swap dealer de
minimis threshold solely on the basis of the conduct of its or its agent’s U.S.-located personnel,”
as “such transactions between non-U.S. persons, where none of the risks of the transactions reside
in the United States, do not have a sufficient nexus to the United States to be included in a
determination of whether a non-U.S. entity should need to register with the Commission”). We
discuss the benefits of the final rule below. See Sections IV.B.2 and V.B, infra.

53

because they do not give rise to risk in the United States. 140 One commenter further argued that
the proposed rule was inconsistent with the concept of a de minimis threshold, stating that, under
the Commission’s rules, the threshold is “based on the aggregate notional size of security-based
swaps, not the extent of U.S. involvement,” suggesting, in the commenter’s view, that “the
threshold is concerned with risk posed to the entity, not the extent of involvement by the
entity.” 141 Accordingly, these commenters argued that imposing security-based swap dealer
regulation on non-U.S. persons on the basis of transactions with other non-U.S. persons—even if
arranged, negotiated, or executed by personnel located in the United States—is inappropriate. 142
To the extent that these comments are directed at whether transactions arising from this
activity or persons engaged in this activity fall within the scope of Title VII, 143 we reiterate our
view that it is consistent with a territorial approach to the application of the Exchange Act to
require non-U.S. persons that use personnel located in the United States to arrange, negotiate, or

140

See SIFMA/FSR Letter at 5; IIB Letter at 5-6 (arguing that the “Commission’s policy interests in
regulating the [security-based swap] and its counterparties are much more limited than if one of
the parties was a U.S. person, guaranteed affiliate or conduit affiliate,” as only the sales and
trading activity at the inception of the transaction is occurring in the United States and the risks of
such transactions “do not flow back to the U.S. financial system”); HSBC Letter at 3 (arguing that
subjecting foreign subsidiaries to entity-level dealer requirements would not provide additional
benefits “since no risk-based nexus would exist between those subsidiaries and the U.S. financial
system,” particularly given that the Commission could use existing recordkeeping requirements to
access the books and records relating to transactions involving U.S. activity); ISDA Letter at 5-6
(arguing that the Commission’s principal concern in regulating these entities is risk mitigation
and that such transactions do not transmit risk into the U.S. financial system). Other commenters,
in the context of discussing the Commission’s proposed approach to the clearing and trade
execution requirements, argued that these types of transactions do pose counterparty credit risk to
the U.S. financial system. See MFA Letter at 6 (disagreeing with our preliminary view that
counterparty credit risk and operational risk of such transactions reside primarily outside the
United States); Citadel Letter at 6-7 (discussing the significant risks to the U.S. financial system
posed by “offshore” transactions).

141

See SIFMA/FSR Letter at 6.

142

See, e.g., id. at 5.

143

Cf. ISDA Letter at 6, note 11.

54

execute a security-based swap to include those transactions in their de minimis calculations. In
the Cross-Border Adopting Release, we rejected the suggestion that “the location of risk alone
should . . . determine the scope of an appropriate territorial application of every Title VII
requirement,” including the application of the “security-based swap dealer” definition. 144 In
doing so, we stated that “neither the statutory definition of ‘security-based swap dealer,’ our
subsequent further definition of the term pursuant to section 712(d) of the Dodd-Frank Act, nor
the regulatory requirements applicable to security-based swap dealers focus solely on risk to the
U.S. financial system.” 145 And we have noted that the definition of “security-based swap dealer”
focuses on a person’s activity, not solely on the amount of risk created by that activity. 146
Accordingly, we do not believe that security-based swap dealing activity must create
counterparty credit risk in the United States for there to be a “nexus” sufficient to warrant
security-based swap dealer registration. 147
As we have previously noted, Exchange Act section 3(a)(71)(A) identifies specific
activities that bring a person within the definition of “security-based swap dealer”: (1) holding

144

Cross-Border Adopting Release, 79 FR 47287-88.

145

Id. at 47288. We have also stated that security-based swap dealer regulation may be warranted
either to promote market stability and transparency in light of the role that these dealers occupy in
the security-based swap market or to address concerns raised by the nature of the interactions
between such dealers and their counterparties. See Intermediary Definitions Adopting Release,
77 FR 30617.

146

See Cross-Border Proposing Release, 78 FR 30988 (noting our view that the statutory provisions
suggest that our focus should be not “solely on the risk these entities pose to the financial
markets” but also on whether regulation is warranted due to the nature of their interactions with
counterparties or in order to promote market stability and transparency, given the role these
persons play in the security-based swap market). See Intermediary Definitions Adopting Release,
77 FR 30612. Indeed, we expressly contrasted this focus of the “security-based swap dealer”
definition with the focus of the “major security-based swap participant” definition, which is
focused on “the market impacts and risks associated with a person’s … security-based swap
positions.” Id. at 30661.

147

See note 140, supra.

55

oneself out as a dealer in security-based swaps, (2) making a market in security-based swaps; (3)
regularly entering into security-based swaps with counterparties as an ordinary course of
business for one’s own account; or (4) engaging in any activity causing oneself to be commonly
known in the trade as a dealer in security-based swaps. 148 We have further interpreted this
definition to apply to persons engaged in indicia of dealing activity, including, among other
things, providing liquidity to market professionals, providing advice in connection with securitybased swaps, having regular clientele and actively soliciting clients, and using interdealer
brokers. 149 Neither the statutory definition of “security-based swap dealer” nor our further
definition of that term turns primarily on the presence of risk or on the purchase or sale of any
security, including a security-based swap. 150 Accordingly, we disagree with the view that the
“de minimis threshold is based on the aggregate notional size of security-based swaps” and that
this suggests that “the de minimis threshold is concerned with the risk posed to the entity, not the
extent of involvement by the entity.” 151 The de minimis exception relates to the volume of
dealing activity and not to specifically risk-related factors, such as the notional volume of
positions held by the dealer. 152

148

See Exchange Act section 3(a)(71)(A), 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(71)(A).

149

See Intermediary Definitions Adopting Release, 77 FR 30617-18. As we stated in the CrossBorder Adopting Release, when the statutory text does not describe the relevant activity with
specificity or provides for further Commission interpretation of statutory terms or requirements,
our territorial analysis may require us to identify through interpretation of the statutory text the
specific activity that is relevant under the statute or to incorporate prior interpretations of the
relevant statutory text. See Cross-Border Adopting Release, 79 FR 47287.

150

See Exchange Act section 3(a)(71)(A), 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(71)(A); Intermediary Definitions
Adopting Release, 77 FR 30617-18.

151

See note 141, supra (citing SIFMA/FSR Letter). Cf. Intermediary Definitions Adopting Release,
77 FR 30620 (noting the focus of the “security-based swap dealer” definition on dealing activity).

152

See Exchange Act section 3(a)(71)(D), 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(71)(D) (providing that the Commission
“shall exempt from designation as a security-based swap dealer an entity that engages in a de

56

Accordingly, the fact that the counterparty credit risk from a transaction between two
non-U.S. persons, which are not conduit affiliates and where neither counterparty has a right of
recourse against a U.S. person under the security-based swap, exists largely outside the United
States is not determinative under our territorial analysis as to whether a sufficient “nexus” exists
to require a non-U.S. person to count the transaction toward its de minimis threshold. The
appropriate analysis, in our view, also considers whether a non-U.S. person in such a transaction
is engaged, in the United States, in any of the activities set forth in the statutory definition or in
our further definition of “security-based swap dealer.” 153 If it is so engaged, it is appropriate
under a territorial approach to require the non-U.S. person to include such transactions in its
security-based swap dealer de minimis threshold calculations and, if those security-based swaps
(together with any other security-based swaps it is required to include in its threshold
calculations) exceed the de minimis threshold, to register as a security-based swap dealer. 154
As we stated in the U.S. Activity Proposing Release, this analysis applies regardless of
whether the non-U.S. person engages in dealing activity (as described in the statutory definition
and in our further definition of “security-based swap dealer”) in the United States using its own
minimis quantity of security-based swap dealing”); Exchange Act rule 3a71-2 (establishing
transaction-based notional thresholds for the security-based swap dealer de minimis exception).
153

See, e.g., Intermediary Definitions Adopting Release, 77 FR 30612 (noting the focus of the
“security-based swap dealer” definition on dealing activity).

154

See Cross-Border Adopting Release, 79 FR 47286-92 (describing the Commission’s territorial
approach). In light of the foregoing analysis, we believe that the statutory prohibition on
application of Title VII requirements to persons that “transact[] a business in security-based
swaps without the jurisdiction of the United States” has no bearing on the final rule. See
Exchange Act section 30(c). Under this rule, a non-U.S. person must include a transaction with
another non-U.S. person in its dealer de minimis threshold calculations only when, in connection
with its dealing activity, it arranges, negotiates, or executes a security-based swap using its
personnel (or personnel of its agent) located in the United States. See Exchange Act rule 3a713(b)(1)(iii)(C). The final rule, accordingly, would not impose requirements on non-U.S. persons
that are “transacting a business in security-based swaps without the jurisdiction of the United
States” for purposes of section 30(c).

57

personnel or using the personnel of an agent acting on its behalf. 155 As described above, persons
engaged in security-based swap dealing activity routinely do so both directly and through their
agents, including as part of an integrated dealing business. Indeed, our further definition of
“security-based swap dealer” specifically identifies the use of interdealer brokers as one of
several indicia of security-based swap dealing activity, and engaging an interdealer broker as
agent or sending a trade to such a broker generally would be dealing activity. 156 To the extent
that this activity is directed to a broker in the United States, the non-U.S. person is engaged in
dealing activity in the United States. 157 Accordingly, a non-U.S. person that reaches into the
United States by engaging an agent (including an interdealer broker) to perform dealing activity
on its behalf is itself engaged, at least in part, in dealing activity in the United States. It is
therefore consistent with our territorial approach to require the non-U.S. person to include
transactions arising out of those activities in its own de minimis threshold calculations. 158

155

See U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27465.

156

See Exchange Act rule 3a71-1(a) (defining “security-based swap dealer”); Intermediary
Definitions Adopting Release, 77 FR 30617-18 (providing guidance to “further clarify the scope
of the security-based swap dealer definition”).

157

More generally, we believe that the routine use by dealers of the structures described in this
discussion suggests that a person may engage in dealing activity through an agent in a manner
very similar to engaging in such activity through its own branch or office. Cf. Exchange Act
section 3(a)(71)(A) (defining “security-based swap dealer”); Intermediary Definitions Adopting
Release, 77 FR 30617-18 (further defining “security-based swap dealer”).

158

Our treatment of activity performed by an agent on behalf of a non-U.S. person in connection
with its dealing activity does not apply Title VII to persons that are “transact[ing] a business in
security-based swaps without the jurisdiction of the United States,” within the meaning of section
30(c) of the Exchange Act. See note 154, supra. An approach that treated a non-U.S. person
dealer that used an agent, whether affiliated or unaffiliated, in the United States to carry out some
or all of its dealing business with non-U.S. persons as transacting a business in security-based
swaps without the jurisdiction of the United States, would, in our view, reflect an understanding
of what it means to conduct a security-based swap business within the jurisdiction of the United
States that is divorced from the definition of “security-based swap dealer,” from Title VII’s
statutory objectives, and from the various structures that non-U.S. persons use to engage in
security-based swap dealing activity. But in any event we also believe that this final rule is
necessary or appropriate as a prophylactic measure to help prevent the evasion of the provisions

58

2. Policy concerns associated with security-based swap dealing activity in the
United States
Requiring transactions that, in connection with a non-U.S. person’s dealing activity, are
arranged, negotiated, or executed by personnel located in the United States to be counted toward
the non-U.S. person’s security-based swap dealer de minimis threshold is also consistent with the
policy objectives of Title VII dealer regulation. Some commenters interpreted the primary, or
even the sole, goal of Title VII dealer regulation as risk mitigation, generally arguing that no
policy rationale warranted requiring non-U.S. persons to count transactions with other non-U.S.
persons based on their activity in the United States. 159 One commenter specifically urged us not
to adopt the proposed rule, arguing that application of U.S. requirements to these transactions
should “be tailored to address only the specific policy considerations raised by use of U.S.
personnel,” such as certain concerns related to counterparty protection. 160

of the Exchange Act that were added by the Dodd-Frank Act, and thus would help prevent the
relevant purposes of the Dodd-Frank Act from being undermined. See Cross-Border Adopting
Release, 79 FR 47291-92 (interpreting anti-evasion provisions of Exchange Act section 30(c)).
Without this rule, non-U.S. persons could simply carry on a dealing business within the United
States with other non-U.S. persons through agents and remain outside of the application of the
dealer requirements of Title VII, as described more fully in the following sections.
159

See SIFMA/FSR Letter at 5 (“[S]uch transactions between non-U.S. persons…do not have a
sufficient nexus to the United States to be included in a determination of whether a non-U.S.
entity should need to register with the Commission.”); IIB Letter at 5 (arguing that the
Commission’s policy interests in such transactions are more limited than in transactions involving
a U.S. person and that “[i]t is not necessary for one of the parties to register with the Commission
as an SBSD for the Commission to address these more limited policy objectives.”); ISDA Letter
at 5 (“In the absence of risks to the U.S. financial system and U.S. counterparties, the
Commission has not identified any benefit associated with regulating SBS transactions between
non-U.S. persons.”) (emphasis added). Several commenters argued that the location of personnel
involved in a transaction on behalf of a non-U.S.-person dealer is not particularly relevant to the
policy considerations addressed by security-based swap dealer registration and accordingly
should not “form the sole basis for requiring” firms to register as security-based swap dealers and
to comply with the Title VII rules. See, e.g., ISDA Letter at 4.

160

See IIB Letter at 3.

59

We believe that these characterizations of the policy objectives of Title VII are
incomplete. Although it is true that mitigating counterparty and operational risks—which we
have acknowledged lie primarily outside the United States in these transactions 161—is an
important objective of the Title VII dealer requirements, these requirements also advance other
important policy objectives of security-based swap dealer regulation under Title VII, including
enhancing counterparty protections and market integrity, increasing transparency, and mitigating
risk to participants in the financial markets and the U.S. financial system more broadly. 162
We believe that not requiring non-U.S. persons to count these trades toward their de
minimis thresholds would significantly impair the effectiveness of the Title VII dealer
framework in advancing these objectives. As noted above, financial groups engaged in securitybased swap dealing activity may structure their business in many different ways. 163 Many nonU.S. persons engaged in dealing activity in the United States do so through an affiliated or
unaffiliated agent in the United States and, under currently existing rules, are not required, absent
a guarantee, to include transactions arising from such activity in their dealer de minimis
calculations if the counterparty is also a non-U.S. person. Some financial groups also use U.S.
persons to book such transactions, but even U.S.-based financial groups may opt to book their
security-based swap transactions in non-U.S. persons in response to regulation or to competitive
disparities between U.S. persons and non-U.S. persons.

161

See U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27481.

162

See note 145, supra. These policy objectives reflect the goals of Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act,
which established a statutory framework to reduce risk, increase transparency, and promote
market integrity within the financial system. See Intermediary Definitions Adopting Release, 77
FR 30596.

163

See Sections II.A.2.d and II.B, supra.

60

Given these dynamics, failure to require non-U.S. persons to count the transactions
encompassed by the final rule toward the dealer de minimis thresholds, even though doing so is
entirely consistent with our territorial approach, would permit financial groups that have a
security-based swap dealing business to avoid registering non-U.S. persons that engage in
security-based swap dealing activity in the United States. As long as a non-U.S. person limited
its dealing activity with U.S. persons to levels below the dealer de minimis thresholds, it could
enter into an unlimited number of transactions connected with its dealing activity in the United
States without being required to register as a security-based swap dealer.
Subjecting the transactions of certain dealers engaged in dealing activity in the United
States, but not others, to the Title VII dealer requirements would undermine each of the policy
objectives described above. Under currently existing rules, a significant proportion of activity in
the security-based swap market that is carried out within the United States—particularly as
financial groups respond to the competitive pressures discussed in more detail below—likely
would involve counterparties that are not subject to our regulations or oversight. Dealers
accounting for significant volumes of security-based swap dealing activity in the United States—
and together potentially accounting for a significant majority of all security-based swap activity
in the United States—would not be subject to Title VII recordkeeping and reporting
requirements, which would significantly impede our ability to monitor the market for
manipulative and abusive conduct on the part of dealers or other market participants. Similarly,
these dealers would not be subject to the Title VII business conduct requirements with respect to
any of their transactions, which could significantly impair market integrity or raise other
concerns, as counterparties seeking to enter into transactions with dealers through those dealers’
personnel located in the United States would not receive the full range of disclosures and other

61

protections provided by Title VII. And these firms would not be subject to Title VII capital,
margin, or segregation requirements. These requirements are intended to play a key role in
mitigating the potential for financial contagion to spread to participants in the U.S. securitybased swap market and to the U.S. financial system more generally by mitigating the risk of firm
failure.
Subjecting only a limited subset of transactions involving activity in the United States to
Title VII dealer requirements would also likely produce competitive disparities and exacerbate
market fragmentation, which would not only further undermine the policy objectives just
described but also create potentially significant market distortions. Competitive disparities
would arise as financial groups that use non-U.S.-person dealers to carry out their dealing
business in the United States find themselves able to exit the Title VII regulatory regime without
exiting the U.S. market with respect to their security-based swap dealing business with non-U.S.person counterparties (including non-U.S.-person dealers). These dealers likely would incur
fewer costs related to their dealing activity in the United States than U.S.-person dealers
transacting with the same counterparties, and non-U.S. person counterparties likely would also
find that they incur lower costs and obtain better pricing by entering into security-based swaps
with non-U.S. dealers that are not required to register as security-based swap dealers. U.S.person dealers would be at a further disadvantage as financial groups that carry out a significant
proportion of their security-based swap dealing activity in the United States through nonregistered dealers cross-subsidize the dealing activity of their affiliated registered security-based
swap dealers that engage in dealing activity with U.S.-person counterparties, permitting financial
groups that have shifted a significant proportion of their dealing activity to non-U.S.-person

62

dealers to offer even U.S.-person counterparties better pricing than financial groups that have not
made this shift are able to provide.
These competitive pressures would provide a strong incentive for financial groups to
book transactions with non-U.S. person counterparties (including with other dealers) in nonU.S.-person affiliates of those financial groups. 164 Eventually, both U.S. and foreign financial
groups may restructure their business in a way that would permit them to do the vast majority of
their security-based swap dealing activity—including a significant majority of that activity that
they continue to carry out using personnel located in the United States—outside the Title VII
framework.
This potential response to competitive disparities demonstrates the “nexus” between the
regulatory concerns addressed by the Title VII security-based swap dealer regulatory framework
and our final rule. As already noted, the security-based swap market is a highly concentrated
market in which dealers play a central role. 165 Absent the amendment to rule 3a71-3(b),
restructuring could lead to a market where the largest dealers representing a significant majority
of security-based swap activity in the United States would not be required to register as securitybased swap dealers or comply with Title VII dealer requirements because they would limit their
transactions to other non-U.S.-person dealers (some affiliated with U.S.-based financial groups)
and non-U.S. persons that are not dealers. In other words, the commenters’ suggested approach
potentially would permit hundreds of billions of dollars in annual notional transaction activity

164

See Section II.B, supra (discussing relationship between the scope of Title VII regulations and
likely competitive disparities between different types of dealers). See also Charles Levinson,
“U.S. banks moved billions in trades beyond CFTC’s reach,” Reuters (August 21, 2015),
available at: http://www.reuters.com/article/2015/08/21/usa-banks-swapsidUSL3N10S57R20150821.

165

See Section II.B, supra.

63

(including most or all of the interdealer business in security-based swaps with U.S. underliers),
representing two-thirds or more of all security-based swap transactions that currently involve
U.S. counterparties or U.S. activity, to be carried out, at least in part, within the United States
without being subject to Title VII dealer regulation, much as if Title VII had never been
enacted. 166 Thus, while we acknowledge the potential for this rule to increase the number of
security-based swap dealers from the number that would be required to register under currently
existing rules, 167 we believe that it will mitigate these competitive disparities and help ensure the
ability of the Title VII dealer requirements to advance the regulatory objectives described above.
We further expect that the rule will be essential to reducing the likelihood of significant
market fragmentation that would impair the liquidity available to, and increase costs for, U.S.
market participants. As we have noted above, if a majority of security-based swap dealing
activity in the United States, including most or all interdealer activity in the United States, is
carried out by non-U.S. persons that are not subject to Title VII dealer regulation, the market is
likely to fragment into two pools. The larger pool likely would consist of transactions that are
carried out by unregistered non-U.S.-person dealers with non-U.S.-person counterparties,
including the largest dealers in the security-based swap market, while the smaller pool likely

166

See Section II.A.3, supra. For this reason, we do not agree with the commenters that suggested
that we should not require a firm to register as a security-based swap dealer solely on the basis
that it has transactions with non-U.S. persons arising out of dealing activity in the United States
that exceed the dealer de minimis threshold. See ISDA Letter at 4; SIFMA/FSR Letter at 5; IIB
Letter at 4-5. The overwhelming majority of transactions captured by this rule are likely to be
transactions carried out by non-U.S. persons whose dealing activity likely exceeds the de minimis
threshold by at least an order of magnitude.

167

The available data and analysis suggest that all entities that will exceed the de minimis threshold
for credit default swaps under Exchange Act rule 3a71-3(b), as amended by this release, will
already exceed the threshold by virtue of the transactions they are required to count under
Exchange Act rule 3a71-3(b) as adopted in June 2014. However, as we describe more fully
below, we acknowledge the potential for a change in the number of registrants based on a number
of factors. See Section V.B, infra.

64

would be limited to U.S.-person counterparties and registered dealers that do business
exclusively with those U.S.-person counterparties (and that may or may not themselves be U.S.
persons). In other words, absent these rules, U.S. market participants likely would find
themselves confined to a shallower liquidity pool with worse pricing than would be available to
non-U.S. persons, even though those non-U.S. persons likely would themselves be using
personnel, or facing dealers using personnel, located in the United States to arrange, negotiate, or
execute similar transactions.
Finally, as we have noted, a significant proportion of the dealing activity that is likely to
be captured by this rule is actually carried out by foreign affiliates of U.S. financial groups. 168
Given the significant volumes arising from the U.S. dealing activity of such foreign affiliates and
the potential reputational effect that an affiliate’s failure can have on other affiliates in the same
corporate group, this activity may pose a risk of contagion to the U.S. financial markets, as we
have already discussed above. 169 We previously acknowledged these concerns in explaining
why we were not proposing to impose the clearing requirement on these transactions in the U.S.
Activity Proposing Release, noting our view that other regulatory provisions, including Title VII
margin requirements, were better suited to address the risk of spillovers and contagion arising
from these affiliate relationships. 170 But it is important to note that, as the market develops,
many of those foreign affiliates may be required to register as security-based swap dealers and to
comply with the Title VII margin requirements only because they arrange, negotiate, or execute
transactions in connection with their dealing activity using personnel located in the United
168

See Section II.A.3, supra.

169

See Section II.B, supra.

170

See U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27482. See also note 115, supra (noting the
importance of these issues in our consideration of rules for the security-based swap market).

65

States. 171 The final rule ensures that these affiliates, to the extent that they are engaged in such
activity at levels above the relevant dealer de minimis threshold, are in fact required to register
and comply with these requirements, which should mitigate the risks described above. 172
Subjecting non-U.S. persons that engage in security-based swap dealing activity in the
United States 173 at levels above the dealer de minimis threshold to capital and margin
requirements also should help reduce the likelihood of firm failure and the likelihood that that
the failure of a firm engaged in dealing activity in the United States might adversely affect not
only its counterparties (which may include other firms engaged in security-based swap dealing
activity in the United States) but also other participants in that market. 174 The amendments being
adopted today should also, in a manner consistent with our territorial approach, reduce gaps in

171

See U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27482. This is particularly likely if most or all of the
interdealer activity is carried out by non-U.S. persons using personnel located in the United
States.

172

For these reasons, we do not agree with those commenters that suggested that our proposed
approach was inconsistent with our determination not to propose to subject transactions to the
mandatory clearing requirement solely on the basis of U.S. activity. See SIFMA/FSR Letter at 56; IIB Letter at 13-14. See also Citadel Letter at 6-7 (arguing that the Commission’s assertion
that the risks of transactions involving U.S. activity reside primarily offshore is inconsistent with
other Commission rulemakings, namely the Volcker Rule, and the statutory interpretation
adopted by the CFTC).

173

See Section IV.B.1, supra (describing territorial application of the dealer definition); CrossBorder Adopting Release, 79 FR 47287-88 (same).

174

See Section II.B, supra (discussing the potential that a liquidity shock resulting from the failure of
a non-U.S.-person dealer engaged in dealing activity in the United States might propagate risks
to, and adversely affect the stability of, U.S. persons also active in those market centers and to the
U.S. financial system more broadly). See also Capital, Margin, and Segregation Proposing
Release, 77 FR 70222 (noting that the “failure of a stand-alone SBSD could have a broader
adverse impact on a larger number of market participants, including customers and
counterparties” and that the proposed capital requirements “are meant to account for this potential
broader impact on market participants”); id. at 70304 (describing the primary benefit of the
proposed capital and margin requirements as reducing the probability of the failure of a securitybased swap dealer, noting that such a default “could have adverse spillover or contagion effects
that could create instability for the financial markets more generally”).

66

the application of these types of requirements to global firms that are engaged in security-based
swap dealing activity. 175
We note that one commenter suggested that our amendments should exclude dealing
activity by a non-U.S. person that “is part of or supports a business that is primarily based
outside the United States.” 176 However, we do not believe that the fact that dealing activity is
part of or supports a business primarily based outside the United States is relevant to the
concerns described above regarding regulatory effectiveness, competitive disparities, market
fragmentation, or contagion. Non-U.S.-person dealers, whose business may be characterized as
“primarily based outside the United States,” account for a significant volume of transactions in
North American single-name CDS and may be expected to raise these concerns, even when “the
bilateral, executory credit risk” in the transaction is borne by two non-U.S. persons. 177
3. Existing regulatory frameworks and security-based swap dealer regulation
Several commenters suggested that we need not rely on Title VII dealer regulation at all
to address regulatory concerns arising from dealing activity carried out by non-U.S. persons
175

Certain other Title VII dealer requirements may similarly help to mitigate these types of risks.
For example, the risk management provision requires a security-based swap dealer to have
systems in place to manage its exposure to risks arising from its security-based swap dealing
activity. See Exchange Act section 15F(j)(2). See also Capital, Margin, and Segregation
Proposing Release, 77 FR 70213. In that release, the Commission proposed to (1) amend Rule
15c3-1 by adding a new paragraph (a)(10)(ii); (2) add new Rule 18a-1(g) and; (3) add new Rule
18a-2(c) which, taken together, generally would require each nonbank security-based swap dealer
and major security-based swap participant to comply with existing Rule 15c3-4 (except for
certain specified provisions of that rule), as if it were an OTC derivatives dealer. Rule 15c3-4
currently requires each person subject to the rule to “establish, document, and maintain a system
of internal risk management controls to assist it in managing the risks associated with its business
activities, including market, credit, leverage, liquidity, legal, and operational risks.” 17 CFR
240.15c3-4.

176

ISDA Letter at 3.

177

See Section II.B, supra. Cf. IIB Letter at 8 (stating that the Commission’s rationale for taking an
approach different from broker-dealer regulation to regulate persons engaged in security-based
swap activity does not hold where, among other things, “the bilateral, executory credit risk
inherent in [security-based swaps]” is not borne by a U.S. counterparty).

67

using personnel located in the United States. 178 According to these commenters, the existing
U.S. and foreign requirements (including broker-dealer regulation, and anti-fraud and antimanipulation provisions) provide us with the tools needed to address what, in their view, are the
primary regulatory concerns raised by this dealing activity, and using these tools would
“essentially sever[] the nexus between the dealer counterparty and the U.S. market,” 179
eliminating the need to include the transaction in a firm’s dealer de minimis threshold
calculations. 180
Because they view the concerns potentially raised by this activity as relating primarily to
counterparty protection concerns and because registered broker-dealers are already subject to
customer protection requirements, these commenters argued that adding security-based swap
dealer requirements would simply duplicate protections already available under existing law or
impose requirements that address concerns (such as counterparty credit risk) that arise only
outside the United States. 181 Because the Exchange Act defines security-based swaps as

178

See, e.g., IIB Letter at 5, 8; ISDA Letter at 8; SIFMA/FSR Letter at 6; HSBC Letter at 2-3.

179

SIFMA/FSR Letter at 7-8.

180

See, e.g., IIB Letter at 4, 5, 6, 8; ISDA Letter at 8-9 (arguing that the Commission could
reasonably limit the impact of the proposal on market participants by “leveraging the existing
components of the SEC’s regulatory program,” specifically identifying the Commission’s
existing regime that applies to broker-dealers and pointing out that cleared transactions are
subject to regulations in other jurisdictions). One commenter argued that “[t]o the extent the
Commission is concerned about conduct of non-registered dealers, it has more targeted tools at its
disposal, including existing antifraud and anti-manipulation provisions and broker-dealer
regulatory obligations applicable to registered agents.” SIFMA/FSR Letter at 6.

181

See, e.g., IIB Letter at 6, 17. Commenters argued that permitting the personnel of non-U.S.person dealers, or their agents, located in the United States to rely on existing regulatory
requirements would be more efficient as these personnel could comply with a uniform set of
requirements with respect to all of their business, whether in securities or in security-based swap
transactions, on their own account or in their capacity as an intermediary for a non-U.S. person.
See ISDA Letter at 9 (citing anti-fraud provisions of Securities Act section 17(a) and the fraud
prohibitions in Rule 10b-5); IIB Letter at 6, 8, 17 (stating that broker-dealer and FINRA rules,
including sales practice, books and records, and examination and inspection requirements, will
apply to broker-dealers arranging, negotiating, and executing security-based swaps on behalf of

68

securities, 182 they asserted that an agent acting on behalf of a non-U.S. person that is engaged in
security-based swap dealing activity generally would be required to register as a broker 183 and
could be required to comply with relevant Exchange Act and FINRA requirements with respect
to the security-based swap transactions that it intermediates. 184 Some commenters argued that
sales practice and recordkeeping rules applicable to registered U.S. security-based swap dealers
and broker-dealers that intermediate these transactions would adequately address the key policy
non-U.S.-person dealers and arguing that applying only broker-dealer rules would avoid
unnecessary duplication).
182

See also U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27470 n.198 (noting that Title VII of the DoddFrank Act amended the Exchange Act definition of “security” to encompass security-based
swaps); Exchange Act section 3(a)(10), 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(10) (defining “security”) as revised by
section 761(a)(2) of the Dodd-Frank Act.

183

See Exchange Act section 3(a)(4) (defining “broker”).

184

See, e.g., note 181, supra (citing IIB Letter).
We have granted temporary exemptive relief from compliance with certain provisions of the
Exchange Act in connection with the Dodd-Frank Act’s amendment of the definition of
“security” in order generally to maintain the status quo during the implementation process for the
Dodd-Frank Act. See Order Granting Temporary Exemptions under the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 in Connection with the Pending Revisions of the Definition of “Security” to Encompass
Security-Based Swaps, Exchange Act Release No. 64795 (July 1, 2011), 76 FR 39927 (July 7,
2011) (“Exchange Act Exemptive Order”). Among other things, this relief granted temporary
exemptions specific to security-based swap activities by registered brokers and dealers. See id. at
39-44. In February 2014, we extended the expiration dates (1) for exemptions that are generally
not directly related to specific security-based swap rulemakings until the earlier of such time that
we issue an order or rule determining whether any continuing exemptive relief is appropriate for
security-based swap activities with respect to any of the Exchange Act provisions or until three
years following the effective date of that order; and (2) for exemptions that are directly related to
specific security-based swap rulemakings, until the compliance date for the relevant securitybased swap rulemaking. See Order Extending Temporary Exemptions under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 in Connection with the Revision of the Definition of “Security” to
Encompass Security-Based Swaps, and Request for Comment, Exchange Act Release No. 71485
(February 5, 2014), 79 FR 7731 (February 10, 2014).
FINRA also adopted a rule, FINRA Rule 0180 (Application of Rules to Security-Based Swaps),
which temporarily limits the application of certain FINRA rules with respect to security-based
swaps. On January 4, 2016, FINRA filed a proposed rule change, which was effective upon
receipt by the Commission, extending the expiration date of FINRA Rule 0180 to February 11,
2017. See Self-Regulatory Organizations; Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.; Notice
of Filing and Immediate Effectiveness of Proposed Rule Change to Extend the Expiration Date of
FINRA Rule 0180 (Application of Rules to Security-Based Swaps), Exchange Act Release
No.76850 (January 7, 2016).

69

interests that underlie the requirement to count U.S. activity towards the de minimis
thresholds. 185 Another commenter suggested that this approach would be consistent with our
historical approach to cross-border issues in cash markets, which provides an exemption from
registration for foreign broker-dealers that use a registered broker-dealer to intermediate
transactions on their behalf. 186 One commenter argued that such an approach would help ensure
consistency in rules applicable to cash and derivatives markets, “reduce the incentives for
regulatory arbitrage,” and help mitigate compliance costs that would arise from “applying
different registration standards to activity in economically comparable instruments.” 187
We recognize that some parallels exist between the Title VII dealer framework and the
broker-dealer regime; we also recognize that there is at least a possibility of duplication between
some of the requirements that would apply to the non-U.S.-person dealer’s security-based swap
transactions if it is required to register as a security-based swap dealer, the requirements that
185

See HSBC Letter at 2-3 (stating that relevant U.S. personnel would already be subject to U.S.
security-based swap dealer or broker-dealer regulation, “including extensive sales practice and
recordkeeping rules” and suggesting that the Commission could require certain non-U.S. person
subsidiaries to provide access to books and records in a manner similar to Rule 15a-6(a)(3)
applicable to foreign broker-dealers); ISDA Letter at 3 (requesting that, if the Commission adopts
the proposed U.S. activity test, it minimize the impact by relying on certain already existing
requirements on registered broker-dealers, such as recordkeeping); IIB Letter at 7. See also ISDA
Letter at 6 (stating that the proposal would regulate these transactions “solely on the basis of
some de minimis level of U.S. nexus during the initial stage of the transaction”); id. at 9
(describing how existing rules would address regulatory concerns).

186

See ISDA Letter at 6, 8 (arguing that “the Commission already possesses a range of regulatory
tools (such as books and records requirements and direct regulation of U.S.-based intermediaries)
that it can use to satisfy its important regulatory interests in protecting against issues such as fraud
and manipulation”).

187

IIB Letter at 7. This commenter stated that such an approach “also would be consistent with
Congress’ decision to define [security-based swaps] as a type of security.” See id. To the extent
that a firm uses a U.S. person to intermediate a security-based swap transaction, that U.S. person
may be required to register as a broker and comply with relevant broker requirements, but nothing
in the statute suggests that the regulation of the broker under the Exchange Act affects the Title
VII obligations of the non-U.S.-person dealer that uses the U.S. broker—perhaps as part of an
integrated dealing business—to engage in dealing activity within the United States under the
comprehensive Title VII regulatory framework for security-based swap dealers.

70

likely would apply to the registered broker-dealer whose personnel arrange, negotiate, or execute
the relevant security-based swap transactions, and some requirements that may apply to the
foreign security-based swap dealer under foreign law. However, as we discussed at some length
in the U.S. Activity Proposing Release in response to similar comments, we do not believe it
appropriate to except non-U.S.-person dealers from this requirement merely because some
transactions of some non-U.S.-person dealers could be subject to broker-dealer or other
requirements that could duplicate some of the security-based swap dealer requirements. 188
As we noted in that release, this type of approach has two significant weaknesses. First,
the definition of “broker” includes a number of exceptions for banks, including U.S. branches of
foreign banks, that are engaged in certain activities, and these exceptions may be used by nonU.S.-person dealers to engage in market-facing activity in the United States in connection with
their dealing activity in security-based swaps. 189 Second, broker-dealer regulation of the agent
operating in the United States on behalf of the non-U.S.-person dealer would not address all of
the concerns raised by non-U.S. persons engaged in this activity, as described above. 190
Accordingly, while we recognized that the statutory framework provides for the regulation of

188

See U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27470-71.

189

Compare Exchange Act section 3(a)(71) (defining “security-based swap dealer” with no
exceptions for banks or banking activities) with Exchange Act section 3(a)(4)(B) (creating
exception from broker definition for banks engaged in certain activities) and Exchange Act
section 3(a)(5)(C) (creating exception from dealer definition for banks engaged in certain
activities).

190

See U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27466-67; Section IV.B.2, supra (describing
regulatory concerns raised by security-based swap dealing activity, including risk, market
integrity and transparency, and counterparty protection).
Regulation of the agent, whether as a broker-dealer or as a security-based swap dealer, also does
nothing to address concerns about the potential spillover risk or contagion from the activity of
non-U.S.-person dealers—including affiliates of U.S.-based financial groups—that are engaged in
potentially significant volumes of security-based swap activity in the United States. See Section
IV.B.2, supra.

71

brokers that intermediate security-based swap transactions, 191 we preliminarily took the position
that this provision neither warrants nor compels the adoption of an exception from the Title VII
regime governing security-based swap dealers. 192
In response to our preliminary determination, several commenters suggested that, to the
extent that the existing framework (including the broker-dealer regulatory regime) does not fully
address our concerns, we could adopt an exception to the counting requirement subject to certain
conditions that would help ensure that the non-U.S. person engaged in dealing activity is subject
to requirements, whether under domestic or foreign law, that are similar to those imposed on
security-based swap dealers by Title VII dealer requirements. 193 For example, one commenter
suggested that the non-U.S.-person dealer not be required to count any transaction entered into in
a dealing capacity if the U.S. personnel are (a) personnel of a registered broker-dealer; or (b)
personnel of a U.S. bank or U.S. branch of a foreign bank that, in connection with the arranging,
negotiating, or executing activity, (i) complies with external business conduct requirements, (ii)
maintains related books and records, and (iii) provides the Commission with access to such
books and records and testimony of the relevant U.S. personnel. 194 Another commenter

191

See U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27470 n.198 (noting that Title VII of the Dodd-Frank
Act amended the Exchange Act definition of “security” to encompass security-based swaps);
Exchange Act section 3(a)(10), 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(10) (defining “security”), revised by section
761(a)(2) of the Dodd-Frank Act.

192

See U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27470-471.

193

See IIB Letter at 8-10; SIFMA/FSR Letter at 8; ISDA Letter at 9-10.

194

See IIB Letter at 8-10. The commenter suggested that the Commission could use its anti-evasion
authority to require access to books and records of the non-U.S.-person dealer and consent to
service of process and that it could ensure adequate capital regulation of the non-U.S.-person
dealer by requiring the non-U.S.-person dealer to count these transactions toward the de minimis
exception if it is not supervised by a home country prudential supervisor that is a member of the
Basel Committee or located in a G20 jurisdiction. See id. at 9. See also ISDA Letter at 8 (stating
that such an approach would be consistent with Exchange Act rule 15a-6, which provides an
exemption from broker-dealer registration on the condition that, among other things, the foreign

72

suggested that we except transactions from the requirement that they be counted toward a nonU.S.-person dealer’s de minimis threshold if the non-U.S.-person dealer is “(i) [] an affiliate of
the U.S.-located registered broker-dealer, (ii) [] registered as a dealer in a local jurisdiction
recognized by the Commission as comparable, and/or (iii) [] located in a Basel-compliant
jurisdiction and subject to such capital requirements under its local regime.” 195 In the
commenters’ view, this type of alternative approach would leverage certain additional elements
of domestic and foreign law, avoiding the costs of registering foreign affiliates and complying
with potentially duplicative requirements, while achieving similar regulatory objectives. 196
In offering these alternative approaches, commenters attempted to encompass all
structures that non-U.S.-person dealers use to engage in dealing activity in the United States with
non-U.S. counterparties and address the full range of regulatory concerns raised by that activity.
But instead of a uniform set of comprehensive requirements using the framework that Congress
established in Title VII, they urged us to develop an alternative approach that would cobble
together existing foreign and domestic regulations in an attempt to replicate—and, as we discuss
below, effectively replace—the statutory framework established by Congress by using a
combination of pre-Dodd Frank Act regulatory authority, anti-fraud and anti-manipulation
authority, anti-evasion authority, and certain foreign requirements. After careful consideration of

broker or dealer maintains books and records and makes them available to the Commission upon
request).
195

See SIFMA/FSR Letter at 8. See also IIB Letter at 9 (suggesting that any exception could be
conditioned on the non-U.S. person being supervised by a home country prudential supervisor
that is either a member of the Basel Committee or located in a G-20 jurisdiction).

196

See IIB Letter at 8-10; SIFMA/FSR Letter at 7-8.

73

these alternatives, we believe that such an approach would undermine the policy objectives
advanced by Title VII that we describe above. 197
As an initial matter, we believe that the approach suggested by commenters is
inconsistent with the comprehensive, uniform statutory framework established by Congress for
the regulation of security-based swap dealers in Title VII. The statutory definition of “securitybased swap dealer” and the consequent regulatory requirements that apply to such persons apply
to any person that engages in relevant activity above the dealer de minimis thresholds. The
comprehensive scope of this definition and of the related requirements differs from the brokerdealer framework under the Exchange Act. Most significantly, as already discussed, the brokerdealer framework does not apply to banks engaged in certain activities, which may include a
significant proportion of security-based swap dealing activity. Title VII, on the other hand,
provides that both banks and non-banks—whether engaged in dealing activity with other dealers
or with non-dealers—are subject to the same comprehensive regulatory framework, suggesting
that the Title VII security-based swap dealer framework is designed to establish a uniform
regulatory regime for all persons engaged in security-based swap dealing activity at levels above
the de minimis threshold, regardless of the business structure that they use to carry out their
business.
Commenters argued that precedent for an approach that provides an exception for trades
intermediated by a registered broker-dealer exists in the exemption available for foreign brokerdealers under Exchange Act rule 15a-6. 198 However, this comparison is inapposite. First, the

197

See Section IV.B.2, supra.

198

See IIB Letter at 7-8; ISDA Letter at 8-9; HSBC Letter at 3, note 3.

74

rule 15a-6(a)(3) exemption that commenters would have us follow 199 permits a foreign brokerdealer to effect transactions in the United States without being required to register only if the
intermediating broker under rule 15a-6 is itself a registered broker-dealer. In other words, rule
15a-6(a)(3) exempts the foreign dealer only if its U.S. intermediary is subject to the same
regulatory regime that otherwise would apply to the foreign broker-dealer absent the exemption.
The commenters, on the other hand, urged us to permit a non-U.S.-person dealer engaged in
security-based swap dealing activity in the United States to substitute broker regulation (subject
to certain conditions, including compliance with certain foreign requirements) of the U.S.
intermediary for comprehensive Title VII security-based swap dealer regulation of the non-U.S.
person engaged in security-based swap dealing activity.
Second, an exception of this type likely would effectively supplant Title VII dealer
regulation for a majority of dealing activity carried out in the United States, replacing it with a
less effective alternative cobbled together from other domestic and foreign requirements. As
described above, much of the dealing activity carried out in the United States is currently booked
in non-U.S. persons, and the absence of a U.S. activity trigger for de minimis threshold
calculations would create a strong incentive to move booking for all transactions with non-U.S.
persons—including, eventually, potentially all dealer-to-dealer transactions—to booking entities
that are themselves non-U.S. persons. 200 Doing so would permit all of this activity—potentially
a significant majority of security-based swap activity in the United States—to be regulated under
an alternative to Title VII. Thus, whereas the exemption under Exchange Act rule 15a-6 permits

199

See IIB Letter at 7-8; ISDA Letter at 8-9; HSBC Letter at 3, note 3.

200

As already discussed, the security-based swap market is a global market, and firms engaged in
security-based swap dealing activity can restructure their dealing business to ensure that securitybased swap transactions are not booked in U.S. persons. See Section II.B, supra.

75

a foreign broker-dealer to effect transactions in the United States without being required to
register if the intermediating broker is subject to the same requirements that would apply to the
foreign broker-dealer absent the exemption, the commenters’ alternative would potentially
enable most security-based swap dealing activity in the United States to be regulated under an
entirely different regime from the comprehensive dealer regulatory framework established by
Congress.
One commenter argued that permitting personnel located in the United States to comply
with the requirements that apply to registered broker-dealers would increase efficiency because
such personnel would be subject to a single set of regulatory compliance obligations with respect
to both their underlying securities transactions and derivatives transactions. 201 Another
commenter argued that our “generally favorable view of substituted compliance” suggests that
we should be willing to refrain from adopting these amendments on the basis that existing
Exchange Act and FINRA requirements “already secure the regulatory aims sought to be
provided by the SBS dealer regime.” 202 However, banks engaged in certain activities, including
U.S. branches of foreign banks, are, as noted above, excepted from the definition of “broker” and
would not benefit from the efficiencies described by commenters, whether they are required to
register as security-based swap dealers (because the exemption is not available to them) or
required to comply with broker-dealer requirements as a condition of an exception, as suggested
by one commenter. 203 In addition, while permitting reliance on broker-dealer requirements for
certain non-U.S.-person dealers may provide intra-firm efficiencies, it is also likely to create

201

See IIB Letter at 7.

202

See ISDA Letter at 9-10.

203

See IIB Letter at 8-9.

76

unnecessary competitive disparities between non-U.S.-person dealers that are eligible for the
exception, on one hand, and U.S. dealers and other non-U.S.-person dealers that are not
eligible. 204 And to the extent that the commenters’ concerns relate to the difficulties in
persuading non-U.S.-person counterparties to make representations and accept disclosures
pursuant to business conduct requirements as proposed, 205 reliance on broker-dealer regulation is
unlikely to eliminate these concerns, as it is likely that similar requirements may apply under the
Exchange Act or under FINRA rules, following the termination of relevant exemptions. 206 For
these reasons, we do not agree with commenters that existing requirements in fact secure the
same regulatory aims as those secured by the Title VII dealer regulatory framework. 207
Finally, many of the concerns expressed by commenters could be mitigated by the
availability of substituted compliance, which, as proposed, may permit non-U.S.-person dealers
to comply with comparable foreign requirements as an alternative means of complying with
certain Title VII requirements. 208 A person relying on substituted compliance would remain

204

Indeed, we note that any exception from the uniform application of the requirement that nonU.S.-person dealers that engage in security-based swap dealing activity in the United States
include the resulting transactions in their dealer de minimis threshold calculations is likely to
create similar competitive disparities and exacerbate market fragmentation in the manner
described in the previous section. See Section IV.B.2, supra. For this reason, and the reasons
given in note 190, supra, we do not agree that compliance by the agent with either broker-dealer
or security-based swap dealer requirements would warrant an exception from counting
transactions under the U.S. Activity Test. Cf. note 185, supra (citing HSBC Letter at 3).

205

See IIB Letter at 11; SIFMA/FSR Letter at 9. For example, one commenter explained that a nonU.S. counterparty “would be surprised by any need to provide representations, agree to covenants
or fill out questionnaires designed to comply with U.S. requirements” that would only apply if
U.S. personnel is used in a subsequent transaction, particularly if such requirements differ from
any local requirements that are already applicable. IIB Letter at 11.

206

See note 184, supra.

207

See notes 201-203, supra.

208

See proposed Exchange Act Rule 3a71-5; Cross-Border Proposing Release, 78 FR 31088. See
also IIB Letter at 19 (noting that significant modifications to existing compliance and risk

77

subject to the applicable Exchange Act requirements, but could comply with those requirements
in an alternative fashion. 209
In practice, however, we recognize that there will be limits to the availability of
substituted compliance. For example, it is possible that substituted compliance may be permitted
with regard to some requirements and not others with respect to a particular jurisdiction. For
certain jurisdictions, moreover, substituted compliance may not be available with respect to any
requirements depending on our assessment of the comparability of the relevant foreign
requirements, as well as the availability of supervisory and enforcement arrangements among the
Commission and relevant foreign financial regulatory authorities. Although comparability
assessments will focus on regulatory outcomes rather than rule-by-rule comparisons, the
assessments will require inquiry regarding whether foreign regulatory requirements adequately

management systems in response to adoption of the U.S. Activity Test “may prove unnecessary”
if foreign security-based swap dealers “are ultimately able to rely on substituted compliance”).
Although we did not directly address substituted compliance with respect to security-based swap
dealer requirements in the U.S. Activity Proposing Release, we noted in that release that we had
previously proposed such an approach and continued to believe that substituted compliance for
such requirements would be the appropriate means of addressing potential overlap or duplication
in their application, rather than forgoing regulation entirely. See U.S. Activity Proposing
Release, 80 FR 27471 and 27473 n.223. Cf. ISDA Letter at 10 (expressing concern that the U.S.
Activity Proposing Release had proposed substituted compliance only with respect to Regulation
SBSR).
209

See Cross-Border Proposing Release, 78 FR 31085. Under the proposal, the Commission would
not permit dealer requirements to be satisfied by substituted compliance unless (i) the
Commission determined that the foreign regime’s requirements were comparable to the otherwise
applicable requirements, after taking into account such factors as the Commission determines are
appropriate, including the scope and objectives of the relevant foreign regulatory requirements
the effectiveness of the supervisory compliance program administered, and the enforcement
authority exercised by the foreign financial regulatory authority in support of its oversight; and
(ii) the Commission has entered into a supervisory and enforcement memorandum of
understanding or other arrangement with the relevant foreign financial regulatory authority or
authorities. See proposed Exchange Act Rule 3a71-5(a)(2)(i) and (ii); Cross-Border Proposing
Release, 78 FR 31086-88.

78

reflect the interests and protections associated with the particular Title VII requirement. In some
circumstances, such a conclusion may be difficult to achieve.
In the event that we are unable to determine that an entity may satisfy certain Title VII
requirements via substituted compliance, we recognize that such persons may, as a result, be
subject to requirements that are duplicative of particular Title VII requirements. While we
recognize the significance of such a result, in our view compliance with the Title VII
requirements is necessary to advance the policy objectives of Title VII. This would be
undermined by permitting non-U.S.-person dealers to comply with their Title VII obligations by
satisfying foreign requirements, unless the alternative route provided by substituted compliance
has been made available.
C. Application of the Dealer De Minimis Exception to Non-U.S. Persons Using
Personnel Located in a U.S. Branch or Office to Arrange, Negotiate, or Execute
Security-Based Swap Transactions
We are amending Exchange Act rule 3a71-3(b)(1)(iii) in a manner generally consistent
with our proposal. The final rule requires a non-U.S. person engaged in security-based swap
dealing activity to include in its de minimis calculations any transactions connected with its
security-based swap dealing activity that it arranges, negotiates, or executes using its personnel
located in a U.S. branch or office, or using personnel of its agent located in a U.S. branch or
office. 210 This approach reflects our view that it is reasonable to conclude that a non-U.S. person

210

See Exchange Act rule 3a71-3(b)(1)(iii)(C). Consistent with our proposal, a person would be
required to include in its de minimis calculations only security-based swaps that, in connection
with its dealing activity, are arranged, negotiated, or executed by personnel located in the United
States. A non-U.S. person is not required to include in this calculation transactions connected
with that person’s dealing activity solely on the basis that they were submitted for clearing in the
United States, reported to a security-based swap data repository in the United States, or because
activities related to collateral management of the transaction, such as the exchange of margin,
occurred within the United States. See U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27467 n.166;
27468 n.180; Cross-Border Proposing Release, 78 FR 31000. In our view, none of these

79

that, in connection with its dealing activity, engages in market-facing activity using personnel
located in the United States, is performing activities that fall within the statutory definition of
“security-based swap dealer” or our further definition of that term, as described above, at least in
part in the United States. 211
This amendment reflects our further consideration of the issues raised by non-U.S.
persons engaged in this activity. We continue to believe that requiring non-U.S. persons to
include such transactions in their de minimis threshold calculations will help to ensure that all
persons that engage in a significant level of relevant dealing activity, including activity carried
out through personnel located in a U.S. branch or office, are required to register as security-based
swap dealers and to comply with relevant Title VII requirements applicable to security-based
swap dealers when the volume of that activity exceeds the dealer de minimis threshold. 212

activities, by themselves, indicate that a non-U.S. person is likely to raise the types of concerns
addressed by Title VII security-based swap dealer regulation.
211

Non-U.S. persons engaged in security-based swap dealing activity may include persons whose
counterparties have legal recourse against a U.S. person arising out of the security-based swap
transactions of the non-U.S. person or persons that are conduit affiliates. Our Cross-Border
Adopting Release finalized rules providing that a non-U.S. person must include in its dealer de
minimis calculation transactions arising out of its dealing activity with counterparties that are
U.S. persons, or such transactions with non-U.S. person counterparties if the non-U.S. person
affiliate of the non-U.S. person is a conduit affiliate or if its counterparty has a right of recourse
against a U.S.-person affiliate of the non-U.S. person under the security-based swap, even if the
non-U.S. person is not engaging in dealing activity using personnel located in the United States to
arrange, negotiate, or execute the transaction. See Exchange Act rules 3a71-3(a)(1), (b)(1)(ii),
and (b)(1)(iii)(B).

212

Several commenters urged the Commission to work with the CFTC to harmonize the
Commissions’ approaches to cross-border and other issues, arguing that no administrative or
economic rationale exists for different approaches. See Chris Barnard Letter at 2 (noting that the
U.S. Activity Proposing Release differs in its application of mandatory clearing and trade
execution from the CFTC and that, ideally, the SEC and CFTC should work together to create
one set of rules); ICI Global Letter at 3-4 (emphasizing the need for coordination among
regulators to determine the treatment of cross-border transactions); MFA Letter at 2-4 (urging
that the Commission work with the CFTC and the prudential regulators to adopt a single
approach, particularly with respect to the definition of “U.S. person”); SIFMA Sequencing Letter
at 5 (requesting that the Commission coordinate with the CFTC on cross-border rules generally
and on any rules governing U.S. activity in particular). One commenter expressed concern about

80

Most commenters that expressed a view on the U.S. Activity Test set forth in the U.S.
Activity Proposing Release supported the changes made from our initially proposed approach. 213
Under that initial approach, market participants would have been required to determine, in
connection with several different Title VII rules, whether a transaction was a “transaction
conducted within the United States,” and this determination would have required an analysis of
the location of relevant activity performed by either counterparty or its agent in connection with
that transaction. 214 These commenters supported the narrower approach set forth in our U.S.
Activity Proposing Release, which focused only on the location of relevant activity of a
counterparty acting in a dealing capacity in the transaction of such counterparty’s agent 215 and
limited relevant activity to “market-facing” activity of that counterparty or the counterparty’s

differences among cross-border approaches proposed by U.S. regulators particularly in light of
the close relationship between the single-name CDS market and the index CDS market, given that
many market participants are active in both markets. See MFA Letter at 3. We recognize the
commenters’ concerns and continue to consult and coordinate with the CFTC and other regulators
to minimize differences in our Title VII rules, including with respect to the issues addressed in
this release.
Another commenter specifically urged that the Commission’s proposed interpretation of “arrange,
negotiate, and execute” be applied consistently to the use of these terms in other contexts,
including the CFTC Staff Advisory and the Volcker Rule. See SIFMA/FSR Letter at 2-4. The
Commission adopted the Volcker Rule together with the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation, and the CFTC under a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act separate from the provisions
under which the rules addressed in this release are being adopted. See Prohibitions and
Restrictions on Proprietary Trading and Certain Interests in, and Relationships With, Hedge
Funds and Private Equity Funds, Release No. BHCA-1 (December 10, 2013), 79 FR 5535
(January 31, 2014) (“Volcker Rule”).
213

See ICI Letter at 1-2, 5; SIFMA/FSR Letter at 3; IIB Letter at 2.

214

See Cross-Border Proposing Release, 78 FR 30999.

215

See ICI Global Letter at 1-2, 5 (stating that the modified proposal would enable non-U.S. dealers
to enter into transactions with non-U.S. persons that may use a U.S. fund manager without
requiring the non-U.S. dealer to include the transaction in its de minimis calculations).

81

agent. 216 One commenter stated that the modified approach created “a definable standard that
will bring clarity to the application of security-based swap requirements to security-based swap
dealers, and is appropriate and consistent with the expectations of the parties as to when U.S.
security-based swap requirements will apply.” 217
We have considered commenters’ concerns about the potential costs associated with the
final rule, including the systems and monitoring costs, as well as the likelihood of market
fragmentation arising from the full or partial exit of some dealing firms from the U.S. market. 218
As discussed above, however, we believe that imposing the counting requirements on non-U.S.person dealers engaged in such transactions will advance important regulatory objectives. 219
However, the final rule is intended to avoid unnecessary costs and complexity that may make it
difficult for market participants to comply with such requirements. As we stated in connection
with the proposed rule, this approach reflects our recognition of commenters’ concerns that our
initially proposed approach to “transactions conducted within the United States” potentially
could have imposed significant costs on, and presented compliance challenges to, market

216

See IIB Letter at 17; SIFMA/FSR Letter at 3 (stating that “market-facing focus is appropriate and
consistent with the expectations of the parties as to when U.S. regulations will apply”).

217

SIFMA/FSR Letter at 2-3 (stating also that the commenters “strongly believe that the
Commission has taken the correct approach in focusing on market-facing activity of sales and
trading personnel in defining the ‘arrange, negotiate, or execute’ nexus that subjects securitybased swap activity to the Commission’s regulations based on location of conduct”).

218

See Sections V.A and V.B, infra (discussing comment letters addressing costs, competition, and
market fragmentation).

219

See Section IV.B.2, supra. We recognize, as two commenters argued, that it is possible that the
final rule will result in additional registrants and that this increase in the number of security-based
swap dealers will impose additional responsibilities on the Commission and its staff. See IIB
Letter at 7, 10; HSBC Letter at 2. As discussed above, the final rule is intended to subject to
registration requirements only those firms whose activity in the United States suggests that they
raise the types of concerns addressed by Title VII dealer regulation, and we believe that the
concern regarding Commission resources is not relevant, given that the final rule appears
reasonably tailored to achieve our policy interests.

82

participants. 220 The final rule should reduce the likelihood that personnel who are incidentally
within the United States will trigger the counting requirement, and it will eliminate any need on
the part of the non-U.S.-person dealer either to monitor the location of relevant personnel acting
on behalf of its counterparty or to obtain relevant representations regarding the location of the
counterparty’s or the counterparty’s agent’s personnel from their counterparty on a transactionby-transaction basis.
In the following subsections, we describe key elements of the amendment to Exchange
Act rule 3a71-3(b)(1)(iii) and address comments received in response to the U.S. Activity
Proposing Release that are of particular relevance with respect to each element.
1. “Arranging, negotiating, or executing” a security-based swap transaction
Exchange Act rule 3a71-3(b)(1)(iii)(C) applies only to transactions connected with a nonU.S. person’s security-based swap dealing activity that its personnel (or the personnel of an
agent) located in the United States arrange, negotiate, or execute. The final rule, accordingly,
would reach a narrower range of activity than did the initially proposed rules that would have
required a non-U.S.-person dealer to count any “transaction conducted within the United
States” 221 that it entered into in connection with its dealing activity.
Consistent with our preliminary views set forth in the U.S. Activity Proposing Release,
“arrange” and “negotiate” in the final rule indicate market-facing activity of sales or trading
personnel in connection with a particular transaction, including interactions with counterparties

220

See U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27468.

221

As noted above, the initially proposed rule would have required non-U.S. persons to include in
their de minimis calculation any “transaction conducted within the United States” related to their
dealing activity. See Cross-Border Proposing Release, 78 FR 30999-31000. Under that proposal,
this term would have included any transaction solicited, negotiated, executed, or booked, by
either party or either party’s agent, within the United States. See id. at 30999.

83

or their agents. 222 “Execute” refers to the market-facing act that, in connection with a particular
transaction, causes the person to become irrevocably bound under the security-based swap under
applicable law. 223
As noted in the proposal, this limitation to market-facing activity should enable market
participants to identify the location of relevant activity in a relatively efficient manner. The final
rule requires a market participant to focus on whether its sales or trading personnel (or such
personnel of its agent) located in the United States engage in this market-facing activity in
connection with a particular transaction, not on where these or other personnel perform internal
functions (such as the processing of trades or other back-office activities) in connection with that
transaction. Accordingly, the involvement of personnel located in a U.S. branch or office in a
transaction, where such personnel do not engage in market-facing activities with respect to a
specific transaction (such as a person who designs the security-based swap but does not
communicate with the counterparty regarding the contract in connection with a specific
transaction and does not execute trades in the contract), and does not direct these activities (as
described below), does not fall within the scope of the final rule. 224 Similarly, the final rule also
does not include the preparation of underlying documentation for the transaction, including
negotiation of a master agreement and related documentation, or performing ministerial or
222

See U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27467-68.
Consistent with the approach taken to the final definition of “transaction conducted through a
foreign branch” adopted in the Cross-Border Adopting Release, the amendment includes
“arrange” instead of “solicit” in recognition of the fact that a dealer, by virtue of being commonly
known in the trade as a dealer, may respond to requests by counterparties to enter into dealing
transactions, in addition to actively seeking out such counterparties. See id. at 27467 n.173
(citing Cross-Border Adopting Release, 79 FR 47322 n.381; 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(71)(A)(iv)).

223

See U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27468.

224

On the other hand, to the extent that personnel located in a U.S. branch or office engage in
market-facing activity normally associated with sales and trading, the location of those personnel
would be relevant, even if the personnel are not formally designated as sales persons or traders.

84

clerical tasks in connection with the transaction as opposed to negotiating with the counterparty
the specific economic terms of a particular security-based swap transaction. 225
The final rule also does not require persons engaged in dealing activity to consider the
location of personnel booking the transaction. As we have noted elsewhere, the booking entity is
the counterparty to a transaction and bears the ongoing risk of performance on the transaction, 226
and the entity in which the transaction is booked is the entity that may be required to include a
transaction in its de minimis threshold calculations. 227 However, the ministerial task of entering
transactions on a non-U.S. person’s books once the transaction has been executed by marketfacing personnel does not appear to involve the type of market-facing activity that reflects an
involvement in the U.S. financial market that would indicate that the non-U.S. person may be
likely to raise the types of regulatory concerns addressed by the Title VII dealer requirements,
particularly if both counterparties to the transaction are non-U.S. persons and all relevant marketfacing activity occurs outside the United States. 228 On the other hand, a non-U.S. person’s
market-facing activity in the United States suggests the type of involvement in the U.S. securitybased swap market that may raise financial contagion, customer protection, market integrity, and
225

Similarly, the final rule does not encompass a transaction solely on the basis that a U.S.-based
attorney is involved in negotiations regarding the terms of the transaction.

226

See Cross-Border Proposing Release, 78 FR 30976. See also Intermediary Definitions Adopting
Release, 77 FR 30617 n.264. For further discussion of this issue, see note 244, infra.

227

For example, if the transaction is booked in a U.S. person, that U.S. person is a counterparty to
the security-based swap and is required to include the security-based swap in its own de minimis
calculation if the transaction is in connection with its dealing activity, irrespective of whether the
U.S. person used its own personnel or an agent’s personnel to carry out that dealing activity. See
Exchange Act rule 3a71-3(b)(1)(i).

228

See Section IV.B.2, supra (describing concerns addressed by the final rule, including uniform
application of Title VII dealer requirements, market integrity and fragmentation, and potential
channels of financial contagion arising from dealing activity in the United States). See also U.S.
Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27467 n.173 (stating our preliminary view that it is marketfacing activity, rather than the booking of the transaction, that raises the types of concerns
underlying our proposal of the U.S. Activity Test).

85

market transparency concerns, for the reasons described in detail above, 229 particularly when its
relevant dealing transactions exceed a de minimis threshold.
Finally, we note that, consistent with our proposal, “arranging,” “negotiating,” and
“executing” also include directing other personnel to arrange, negotiate, or execute a particular
security-based swap. In other words, sales and trading personnel of a non-U.S. person who are
located in the United States cannot avoid application of this rule by simply directing other
personnel to carry out dealing activity, and we would view personnel located in a U.S. branch or
office who direct personnel not located in the United States to arrange, negotiate, or execute a
security-based swap transaction as themselves arranging, negotiating, or executing the
transaction. Similarly, personnel directing the arranging, negotiation, or execution of securitybased swaps include personnel located in a U.S. branch or office that specify the trading strategy
or techniques carried out through algorithmic trading or automated electronic execution of
security-based swaps, even if the related server is located outside the United States. 230 Some
commenters requested that certain requirements not apply to transactions that involve U.S.
activity if parties have no reasonable basis to expect that Title VII regulations will apply, for
example, because the trade has been executed on an anonymous electronic platform or in
algorithmic/program driven trading, in which a counterparty may have personnel in the U.S. but
there is no human contact within the U.S. related to the transaction. 231 However, we do not
believe that it is appropriate to create a blanket exclusion for these transactions from the de
229

See note 162 and accompanying text, supra.

230

We would not view personnel responsible solely for coding the algorithm as specifying the
trading strategy or techniques carried out through such trading or execution.

231

See ISDA Letter at 7-8; SIFMA/FSR Letter at 7 (stating that transactions should not be counted
towards the de minimis calculations if executed anonymously on an exchange and cleared, or
through algorithmic or program-driven trading); IIB Letter at 17-18 (same, noting that doing so
could deter non-U.S. counterparties from trading on those platforms).

86

minimis counting requirement, as neither algorithmic trading nor automated electronic execution
of security-based swaps eliminates the concerns addressed by Title VII dealer regulation, which
exist irrespective of the expectations of the counterparty to a particular transaction. 232
2. “Located in a U.S. branch or office”
Exchange Act rule 3a71-3(b)(1)(iii)(C) applies only to transactions connected with a nonU.S. person’s security-based swap dealing activity that are arranged, negotiated, or executed by
personnel located in a U.S. branch or office. 233 Thus, on the one hand, we generally would view
the rule to require a non-U.S.-person dealer to include in its de minimis calculations any
transactions arranged, negotiated, or executed in the United States by, for example, personnel
assigned to, on an ongoing or temporary basis, or regularly working in a U.S. branch or office.
On the other hand, we would not view the rule to require a non-U.S.-person dealer to include in
its de minimis calculations transactions arranged, negotiated, or executed by personnel assigned
to a foreign office if such personnel are only incidentally in the United States. For example, the
amendment does not require a non-U.S. person to include transactions that such personnel
arrange, negotiate, or execute while traveling in the United States to attend an educational or
industry conference.
As we noted in our U.S. Activity Proposing Release, this element of the final rule also
should mitigate the burdens associated with determining whether a particular transaction needs to

232

Cf. ISDA Letter at 5 (acknowledging that “the Commission’s concern that electronic trading does
not eliminate the possibility of abusive or manipulative conduct” and requesting further
clarification of the application of the proposed rule to electronic trading).

233

As noted in Section IV.C.1, however, if personnel located in a U.S. branch or office are
arranging, negotiating, or executing a particular security-based swap by directing personnel not
located in a U.S. branch or office to arrange, negotiate, or execute a security-based swap
transaction, we would view that transaction as having been arranged, negotiated, or executed by
the personnel located in the United States.

87

be included in a non-U.S. person’s de minimis calculation. 234 We acknowledge that the final
rule potentially would lead a market participant to perform a trade-by-trade analysis to determine
the location of relevant personnel performing market-facing activity in connection with the
transaction. However, because the final rule encompasses a person’s dealing activity only when
its personnel or personnel of its agent located in a U.S. branch or office have arranged,
negotiated, or executed the transaction, a non-U.S. person performing this analysis should be
able to identify for purposes of ongoing compliance the specific sales and trading personnel
whose involvement in market-facing activity would require a transaction to be included in its de
minimis calculation. 235 Alternatively, such non-U.S. person may establish policies and
procedures that would facilitate compliance with this final amendment by requiring transactions
connected with its dealing activity to be arranged, negotiated, and executed by personnel located
outside the United States.
Consistent with our proposed approach, the final rule applies to security-based swap
transactions that the non-U.S. person, in connection with its dealing activity, arranges,
negotiates, or executes, using personnel located in a U.S. branch or office, even in response to
inquiries from a non-U.S.-person counterparty outside business hours in the counterparty’s
jurisdiction. One commenter urged us not to include such transactions in the U.S. Activity Test,

234

See U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27469.

235

Based on our staff’s discussions with market participants, we continue to believe that persons
engaged in dealing activity may already identify personnel involved in market-facing activity
with respect to specific transactions in connection with regulatory compliance policies and
procedures and to facilitate compensation. See id. at 27469 n.191.
In addition, we believe that some market participants engaged in both swap dealing and securitybased swap dealing activity may perform a similar analysis consistent with the CFTC Staff
Advisory, which sets forth the CFTC staff’s view that Title VII requirements apply to
transactions arranged, negotiated, or executed in the United States by, or on behalf of, swap
dealers. See note 20, supra.

88

arguing that dealing activity carried out in the United States in response to inquiries is generally
occurring pursuant to “product, credit and market risk parameters” set by management personnel
outside the United States and that the activity is not “regular business” because the location of
the activity is “solely incidental to the hour of the day when the non-U.S. counterparty desires to
trade.” 236
We do not agree that these circumstances, including the fact that the dealer’s counterparty
made the initial contact leading to the transaction, are relevant in determining whether a
transaction should be included in a non-U.S. person’s de minimis threshold calculations. The
focus of our U.S. Activity Test is on the location of the personnel used to arrange, negotiate, or
execute the security-based swap transaction, as we continue to believe that a non-U.S. person
that uses sales or trading personnel located in a U.S. branch or office to engage in market-facing
activity in connection with its dealing activity, at least to the extent that its relevant dealing
activity exceeds the de minimis threshold, is likely to raise concerns addressed by Title VII
dealer regulation. 237 As noted above, to the extent that personnel assigned to a foreign office are
themselves only incidentally present in the United States, we would not view the final rule as
encompassing any transactions that they arrange, negotiate, or execute. But we do not believe
that either the nature of the initial contact made by the foreign counterparty or the fact that
parameters for the market-facing activity in the United States are established by management
personnel outside the United States mitigates the concerns arising from a non-U.S. person that, in
236

See IIB Letter at 18-19 (arguing that the dealing activity of the U.S. personnel in the trade is
solely based on the hour of the day and thus incidental and that maintaining the proposed
approach would be difficult as it would require non-U.S. persons to hire staff to work after-hours
in the non-U.S. offices). See also HSBC Letter at 2 (explaining that U.S. sales and trading
personnel may arrange, negotiate, or execute security-based swaps solely due to time-zone
differences).

237

See Sections IV.B.2 and II.B, supra.

89

connection with its dealing activity, uses personnel located in the United States to arrange,
negotiate, or execute a security-based swap. 238 Accordingly, we would view the final rule as
encompassing transactions under such circumstances to the extent that the personnel arranging,
negotiating, or executing the transaction on behalf of the non-U.S. person dealer are located in a
U.S. branch or office as described above. 239
3. “Personnel of such non-U.S. person” or “personnel of an agent”
Exchange Act rule 3a71-3(b)(1)(iii)(C) would apply to transactions connected with a
non-U.S. person’s security-based swap dealing activity that are arranged, negotiated, or executed
by personnel located in a U.S. branch or office, whether the non-U.S. person arranges,
negotiates, or executes the transaction directly using its own personnel located in a U.S. branch
or office, or does so using personnel of an agent of such non-U.S. person, located in a U.S.
branch or office.
As noted above, a non-U.S. person engaged in security-based swap dealing activity with
other non-U.S. persons, if it wishes to avail itself of the expertise of sales, trading, and other

238

Cf. note 222, supra (noting that the amendment includes “arrange” instead of “solicit” in
recognition of the fact that a dealer, by virtue of being commonly known in the trade as a dealer,
may respond to requests by counterparties to enter into dealing transactions, in addition to
actively seeking out such counterparties).

239

We also recognize that Exchange Act section 3(a)(71)(C) excepts from the security-based swap
dealer definition a person that enters into security-based swaps for its own account, but not as a
part of regular business. However, we have previously interpreted “regular business” to focus on
activities of a person that are usual and normal in the person’s course of business and identifiable
as a security-based swap dealing business. See Intermediary Definitions Adopting Release, 77
FR 30610 (interpreting “regular business” for purposes of the “swap dealer” definition). We do
not agree with the commenter that, because the non-U.S. person’s use of the personnel located in
a U.S. branch or office is to accommodate the non-U.S. person counterparty outside its local
market hours, the use of the trading or sales personnel located in a U.S. branch or office is
incidental and thus not “regular business” of the non-U.S. person. Under our interpretation of
“regular business,” it is important to consider whether the non-U.S. person’s usual and normal
course of business is identifiable as a security-based swap dealing business, not the frequency of
or reasons for using personnel located in a U.S. branch or office.

90

personnel located in a U.S. branch or office, may carry out that activity using its own personnel
located in a U.S. branch or office, or using the personnel of its agent, located in a U.S. branch or
office. 240 We continue to believe that the location of personnel carrying out market-facing
activity appears particularly relevant for identifying non-U.S. persons that may raise the types of
concerns described above, 241 whether that dealing activity is carried out by the non-U.S. person’s

240

For purposes of Exchange Act rule 3a71-3(b)(1)(iii)(C), we interpret the term “personnel” in a
manner consistent with the definition of “associated person of a security-based swap dealer”
contained in section 3(a)(70) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(70), regardless of whether
such non-U.S. person or such non-U.S. person’s agent is itself a security-based swap dealer. This
definition is, in turn, substantially similar to the definition of “associated person of a broker or
dealer” in section 3(a)(18) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(18). The definition in section
3(a)(18) is intended to encompass a broad range of relationships that can be used by firms to
engage in and effect securities transactions, and is not dependent solely on whether a natural
person is technically an “employee” of the entity in question. See Alexander C. Dill, BrokerDealer Regulation Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934: The Case of Independent
Contracting, 1994 COLUM. BUS. L. REV. 189, 211-213 (1994) (noting that the Securities Act
Amendments of 1964, which amended section 3(a)(18) of the Exchange Act, “rationalized and
refined the concept of ‘control’ by firms over their sales force by introducing the concept of an
‘associated person’ of a broker-dealer.”). Accordingly, we expect to consider whether a
particular entity is able to control or supervise the actions of an individual when determining
whether the individual is considered to be “personnel” of a U.S. branch, office, or agent of a
security-based swap dealer. This is particularly relevant in the context of a financial group that
engages in a security-based swap dealing business, where personnel of one affiliate may operate
under the direction of, or in some cases, report to personnel of another affiliate within the group.
See also Prohibitions and Restrictions on Proprietary Trading and Certain Interests in, and
Relationships with, Hedge Funds and Private Equity Funds, BHCA-1 (December 10, 2013), 59
FR 5535, 5591 (January 31, 2014) (explaining, in the context of adopting certain provisions of
what is commonly referred to as the Volcker Rule, that the relevant “trading desk” of a banking
entity “may manage a financial exposure that includes positions in different affiliated legal
entities” and similarly “may include employees working on behalf of multiple affiliated legal
entities or booking trades in multiple affiliated entities”) (internal citations omitted).

241

See Section IV.B, supra. One commenter urged the Commission to return to its initially proposed
approach, which would have looked to the location of relevant activity of both counterparties.
Letter from Better Markets, dated July 13, 2015 (“Better Markets Letter”), at 3, 6. The
commenter urged the Commission to “strengthen its proposal by requiring that if either non-U.S.
counterparty uses U.S.-based personnel, then the transaction must be included within
U.S./Foreign Personnel Activity,” explaining that the involvement of personnel in the United
States would be consistent with the Supreme Court’s decision in Morrison v. National Australia
Bank, Ltd., 130 S. Ct. 2869, 2884 (2010) (“Morrison”), and that a counterparty engaged in
dealing activity can reasonably be required to consider the location of its counterparty’s activity,
as well as its own). Id. at 3. Given the structure of the security-based swap market and the
concentration of security-based swap dealing among a small group of firms, we believe the final

91

personnel located in a U.S. branch or office or on its behalf by the personnel of its agent, located
in a U.S. branch or office. 242 Accordingly, the final rule requires a non-U.S. person to include in
its de minimis calculations any transactions in connection with its security-based swap dealing
activity that are arranged, negotiated, or executed by personnel of such person located in a U.S.
branch or office, or by personnel of its agent located in a U.S. branch or office. 243 For the
reasons discussed in Section IV.B.3, above, the final rule does not include any exception from
the de minimis counting requirement for security-based swap transactions that a non-U.S.
person, in connection with its dealing activity, arranges, negotiates, or executes using personnel
located in the United States. 244

rule is appropriately tailored to capture the dealing activity that is likely to raise the types of
concerns addressed by the Title VII dealer regime. See Section IV.B.2.
242

We continue to believe that it is appropriate for the final rule to take into account where personnel
of the non-U.S. person’s agent are arranging, negotiating, or executing the transaction on behalf
of the non-U.S. person, regardless of whether the agent is affiliated with the non-U.S. person, as
security-based swap dealing activity carried out through an unaffiliated agent is likely to raise the
same concerns as such activity carried out through an affiliated agent.

243

A non-U.S. person that uses a broker as its agent to arrange, negotiate, or execute security-based
swap transactions in connection with that non-U.S. person’s dealing activity would be required to
include those transactions in its own de minimis calculations. We recognize that this approach
may make certain brokers less able to compete for the business of non-U.S.-person dealers that
would otherwise not be arranging, negotiating, or executing transactions using personnel located
in a U.S. branch or office, but given the regulatory concerns such transactions may raise, we think
it is appropriate to require such transactions to be included in the non-U.S. person’s de minimis
threshold calculations. See Sections IV.B.2, IV.B.3, and II.B, supra.

244

Consistent with our views expressed in prior releases, if a financial group used one entity to
perform the sales and trading functions of its dealing business and another to book the resulting
transactions, we would “view the booking entity, and not the intermediary that acts as an agent on
behalf of the booking entity to originate the transaction, as the dealing entity.” Cross-Border
Proposing Release, 78 FR 30976. See also Intermediary Definitions Adopting Release, 77 FR
30617 n.264 (“A sales force, however, is not a prerequisite to a person being a security-based
swap dealer. For example, a person that engages in dealing activity can fall within the dealer
definition even if it uses an affiliated entity to market and/or negotiate those security-based swaps
connected with its dealing activity (e.g., the person is a booking entity).”).
To the extent that the activities performed by the entity performing the sales and trading functions
involve arranging, negotiating, or executing security-based swaps as agent for the booking entity

92

4. Exception for transactions involving certain international organizations
In response to the Cross-Border Proposing Release, certain commenters raised concerns
about the potential application of various Title VII provisions to multilateral development banks
(“MDBs”), including the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (or the World
Bank) and the International Finance Corporation. 245 These commenters argued that MDBs have
absolute immunity under federal law and should be excluded from regulation under Title VII
entirely; in addition, they argued that MDBs should be excluded from the definition of U.S.
person. 246 In the Cross-Border Adopting Release, which addressed the cross-border application
of the “security-based swap dealer” and “major security-based swap participant” definitions, we
took the position that such issues were outside the scope of the release, as the source of any such
immunities lies outside the Dodd-Frank Act and the federal securities laws. 247 However, we
concluded that their status as international organizations warranted excluding them from the
definition of “U.S. person.” 248
One commenter on the U.S. Activity Proposing Release objected to the view set forth in
the Cross-Border Adopting Release that the scope of these entities’ immunities was outside the
scope of our prior release, arguing that we had left unaddressed the effect of that immunity on

in connection with the booking entity’s dealing activity, this amendment treats the booking
entity’s transmission of an order and instructions to the agent as part of the dealing activity of the
booking entity itself. As already noted, a person engaged in these activities on behalf of the
booking entity may itself be subject to regulation as a broker under the Exchange Act. See note
187, and accompanying discussion, supra.
245

See Cross-Border Adopting Release, 79 FR 47305-06, nn. 224, 225 (citing commenters
expressing concern about application of Title VII to certain MDBs).

246

See id. at 47305-06.

247

See id. at 47349.

248

See id. at 47312-313; Exchange Act rule 3a71–3(a)(4)(iii) (excluding certain international
organizations from the definition of U.S. person).

93

relevant statutory provisions and that we should have entirely excluded MDBs from any
obligation to register as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, as
the CFTC had done in the jointly adopted Intermediaries Definition Adopting Release. 249
As an initial matter, we reiterate our view that issues related to the immunities of MDBs
or other international organizations are outside the scope of our Title VII rulemaking, given that
the source of any such immunities lies outside the scope of the Dodd-Frank Act and the federal
securities laws. We recognize that to the extent that an MDB or other international organization
believes that its security-based swap activities fall within the scope of the immunities available to
it under U.S. law, the organization may decide not to register as either a security-based swap
dealer or a major security-based swap participant, even if the volume of its transactions in these
instruments exceed the de minimis threshold. 250 However, we are not, in adopting rules under
Title VII, expressing any views as to the immunities such entities may possess generally under
international or U.S. law.
In any event, on further consideration, and consistent with the considerations underlying
the exclusion of certain international organizations from the definition of U.S. person, the final
rule excepts the same international organizations, as defined in Exchange Act rule 3a713(a)(4)(iii), from the requirement to count a security-based swap transaction with another nonU.S. person toward their de minimis thresholds when they use personnel located in the United
States to arrange, negotiate, or execute the transaction. 251 Independent of any immunities that

249

See Letter from Sullivan and Cromwell, dated July 13, 2015 (“Sullivan and Cromwell Letter”), at
1-2.

250

The commenter noted that MDBs currently do not engage in security-based swap transactions in
volumes that would require them to register either as security-based swap dealers or as major
security-based swap participants. See Sullivan and Cromwell Letter at 2, note 5.

251

See Exchange Act rule 3a71-3(b)(1)(iii)(C).

94

may be applicable to these international organizations, including MDBs, we do not believe that
their dealing activity with other non-U.S. persons should be included in any de minimis
calculations that such organizations may make. 252
D. Availability of the Exception for Cleared Anonymous Transactions
Under Exchange Act rule 3a71-5, a non-U.S. person, other than a conduit affiliate, is not
required to include in its de minimis calculation transactions that are entered into anonymously
on an execution facility or national securities exchange and are cleared through a clearing
agency. 253 This rule mitigates the likelihood that market participants will find themselves in a
position where they are required to determine the treatment of the transaction under the de
minimis exception in circumstances where the information necessary to that determination (e.g.,
the U.S.-person status of the counterparty) is unavailable to them. 254 In addition, this exception
should reduce the likelihood that execution facilities outside the United States will exclude U.S.
market participants to prevent a non-U.S. market participant from potentially being required to
register as a security-based swap dealer based on information unavailable to the non-U.S. market
participant at the time of the transaction. 255
As we noted in the U.S. Activity Proposing Release, neither risk arises under the revised
approach to transactions that are arranged, negotiated, or executed by personnel located in the
United States that was proposed in that release. 256 Accordingly, we proposed to amend rule
3a71-5 by adding new paragraph (c) to make this exception unavailable to transactions that non252

Cf. Cross-Border Adopting Release, 79 FR 47313 (determining that the MDBs’ status as
international organizations warranted excluding them from the definition of “U.S. person”).

253

See Exchange Act rule 3a71-5.

254

See Cross-Border Adopting Release, 79 FR 47325 n.412.

255

See id. at 47325.

256

See U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27472-73.

95

U.S. persons would be required to count under proposed Exchange Act rule 3a71-3(b)(1)(iii)(C).
Several commenters have urged us to exclude from this modified approach transactions that are
traded on an electronic exchange or platform, whether registered or not, or that are cleared
through a clearing agency located outside the United States, as such transactions do not create
risk in the United States and such a rule would interfere with access to such platforms. 257
However, as we have noted already, to the extent that personnel located in the United
States are arranging, negotiating, or executing a security-based swap transaction, the fact that a
transaction is traded on a platform or exchange does not eliminate the regulatory concerns that
would warrant applying Title VII dealer regulation to the extent the non-U.S. person’s dealing
activity exceeds the de minimis thresholds: Dealing activity carried out by personnel located in
the United States on behalf of a non-U.S. person, whether in over-the-counter markets or on a
platform, may raise the risk of financial contagion and may present counterparty protection,
market integrity, and transparency concerns. 258 Moreover, although we recognize that clearing a
security-based swap transaction can be expected to reduce operational and counterparty credit
risks, we do not believe it entirely addresses these other regulatory concerns.
Indeed, we note that a significant proportion of the interdealer market consists of cleared
transactions, which suggests that the exception urged by commenters may lead to a similar result

257

See ISDA Letter at 3, 8 (stating that transactions cleared outside the United States should not be
subject to Title VII, as they “are subject to regulatory oversight in the clearing jurisdiction and are
subject to reporting and recordkeeping requirements in that jurisdiction”); IIB Letter at 17-18
(explaining that non-U.S. counterparties trading on a platform may not know that their non-U.S.
dealer counterparty is using U.S. personnel and therefore would not expect or want such trades to
be subject to sales practice and reporting requirements, so they may be deterred from trading on
the platforms or the platform may prohibit access by U.S. personnel). See also SIFMA/FSR
Letter at 7 (stating that transactions should not be counted towards the de minimis calculations if
executed anonymously on an exchange and cleared).

258

See Section IV.B.2, supra.

96

as is likely under a broker-dealer exception to the counting requirement described above, namely
a shift of a significant portion of the interdealer market to foreign clearing agencies, taking that
part of the market entirely outside the Title VII dealer framework even though the dealing
activity continues to occur in the United States. 259 In addition, we note that nothing in Title VII
suggests that clearing a transaction should except a dealer from the requirement to include it in
the dealer’s de minimis calculations.
Because excepting such transactions could leave significant volumes of dealing activity
carried out by non-U.S. persons in the United States outside the scope of Title VII dealer
regulation and undermine the effectiveness of that regulatory framework to address the risks
created by such activity, we are adopting Exchange Act rule 3a71-5(c) as proposed, with
technical edits to clarify that the rule’s exclusion applies to the exceptions in both Exchange Act
rules 3a71-5(a) and (b). Accordingly, under the final rule, to the extent that a non-U.S. person is
required to count a transaction under Exchange Act rule 3a71-3(b)(1)(iii)(C), it must count the
trade toward its de minimis threshold, even if the trade is executed anonymously on a platform
and cleared. 260
V.

Economic Analysis
We are sensitive to the economic consequences and effects, including costs and benefits,

of our rules. In the following economic analysis, we identify and consider the assessment costs
and programmatic costs and benefits of the rules we are now adopting, as well as the likely
effects of the rules on efficiency, competition, and capital formation. We also discuss the

259

See Section IV.B.2, supra.

260

The final rule should also help avoid competitive disparities that could arise if a non-U.S. person
could avail itself of this exception even when arranging, negotiating, or executing a transaction in
connection with its dealing activity using personnel located in a U.S. branch or office.

97

potential economic effects of certain alternatives to the approach taken by the final rules. Our
analysis addresses several issues that are particularly relevant to the security-based swap
market—including the market’s global nature, the concentration of dealing activity, and the ease
with which dealers can relocate their operations to different jurisdictions—and has informed the
policy choices we have described throughout this release.
A. Assessment Costs
Several commenters argued that the proposed rule would impose significant costs on
market participants, including costs related to identifying transactions that needed to be counted
toward the de minimis thresholds. 261 We recognize that under the final rules non-U.S. persons
will incur costs to assess whether their activities must be counted against the dealer de minimis
thresholds and subjected to Title VII dealer requirements. 262 The analysis of assessment costs in
the U.S. Activity Proposing Release accounted for these costs, and we continue to believe that
the final rule represents a reasonable approach that mitigates the burden to market participants

261

One commenter stated that these costs “would include the establishment and maintenance of
compliance systems, controls, policies and procedures that track and control the interactions of
U.S. personnel with non-U.S. counterparties across a wide range of communication media,
including telephone, chat, instant messaging and electronic trading platforms.” See IIB Letter at
3. Another commenter stated that the global nature of the security-based swap market means that
participants will arrange, negotiate, and execute security-based swap transactions in multiple
jurisdictions, meaning that “elements of a single [security-based swap] transaction may take place
in different parts of the world, which may often make it difficult, or even impossible to determine
what, if any, activity has taken place in the United States.” See ISDA Letter at 5. See also HSBC
Letter at 2 (stating that establishing a robust control framework for tracking these transactions
would present challenges).

262

We refer to these costs as “assessment costs.” See Intermediary Definitions Adopting Release, 77
FR 30722.

98

while applying the Title VII dealer framework to non-U.S. persons that are likely to raise the
types of concerns that framework seeks to address. 263
As in the U.S. Activity Proposing Release, we first estimate the likely increase in the
number of entities that are likely to incur costs associated with the de minimis analyses because
the final rule requires additional transactions to be included in these calculations. 264 We then
consider the effect on assessment costs associated with building, operating, and maintaining
systems to identify security-based swap activity that non-U.S. persons would be required to
count toward their de minimis thresholds under Exchange Act rules 3a71-3(b)(1)(iii)(C) and
3a71-5(c).
1. Costs associated with increase in number of firms performing analysis
We have previously assumed that any non-U.S. person that annually enters into more
than $2 billion, in notional value, of security-based swap transactions that would count toward its
de minimis threshold would be likely to incur assessment costs under Exchange Act rule 3a713(b). 265 Under Exchange Act rules 3a71-3(b)(1)(iii)(C) and 3a71-5(c), these non-U.S. persons
would likely also incur assessment costs in connection with their transactions with other nonU.S. persons if they use personnel located in a U.S. branch or office to arrange, negotiate, or
execute the transactions.

263

The amendments the Commission is adopting do not make substantive or material modifications
to any collection of information requirements as defined by the Paperwork Reduction Act of
1995, as amended.

264

Cf. HSBC Letter at 2 (noting that even firms that are not required to register as security-based
swap dealers as a result of the final rule could face significant costs and challenges associated
with performing the de minimis analysis).

265

See U.S. Activity Proposing Release 80 FR 27490; Cross-Border Adopting Release, 79 FR
47331.

99

As we have previously noted, the TIW transaction data do not permit us to determine
whether particular transactions were arranged, negotiated, or executed by personnel located in
the United States. 266 However, as discussed above, it appears that many dealers prefer to use
personnel located in the United States to arrange, negotiate, or execute transactions in securitybased swaps on U.S. reference entities. 267 Accordingly, we believe that we can estimate the
increase in the number of firms that would incur assessment costs in connection with
determining the location of relevant activity involving single-name CDS, by assuming that all
transactions by non-U.S. person 268 dealers with other non-U.S. persons on U.S. reference entities
are arranged, negotiated, or executed by personnel located in the United States.
Under these assumptions, we can estimate that a total of approximately 10 additional
non-U.S. persons, 269 beyond those already incorporated into baseline estimates, that are likely to
exceed the $2 billion threshold we have previously employed under Exchange Act rule 3a713(b), as amended, and to incur assessment costs associated with the de minimis exception based
on 2014 TIW transactions data. We acknowledge, however, that this estimate reflects some
uncertainty: on one hand, it may be overinclusive, as it is unlikely that all such transactions are
arranged, negotiated, or executed by personnel located in a U.S. branch or office; it may also be
underinclusive, as our TIW data do not include single-name CDS transactions between two nonU.S. entities written on non-U.S. underliers, some of which may be arranged, negotiated, or

266

See Section II.A.1, supra.

267

See, e.g., Section II.A.2.c, supra.

268

We note that TIW’s definitions of U.S. and non-U.S. entities do not necessarily correspond to the
definition of U.S. person under Exchange Act rule 3a71-3(a)(4). See note 39, supra.

269

Adjustments to these statistics from the proposal reflect further analysis of the TIW data. Cf. U.S.
Activity Proposing Release 80 FR 27491 (providing an estimate of 15 additional entities that
would be non-U.S. persons).

100

executed by personnel located in a U.S. branch or office, or transactions on other types of
security-based swaps (including equity swaps) whether on U.S. or non-U.S. underliers. 270
In light of this uncertainty and to account for potential growth in the security-based swap
market, we believe that it is reasonable to increase this estimate by a factor of two. As a result,
our estimate for the purposes of analysis is that the rules being adopted today will increase the
number of non-U.S. persons likely to incur any assessment costs in connection with the de
minimis exception by 20. In addition to the assessment costs directly connected with
determining where personnel who arrange, negotiate, or execute a security-based swap
transaction are located, as described more fully below, these 20 persons would also be required
to perform the analyses, and incur the assessment costs, associated with the dealer de minimis
rules adopted in the Cross-Border Adopting Release. 271
2. Costs associated with determining the location of relevant personnel who
arrange, negotiate, or execute a transaction
In addition, these 20 non-U.S. persons, as well as the 114 persons that are likely to incur
assessment costs in connection with the rules adopted in the Cross-Border Adopting Release, 272
will incur costs to identify transactions that they are required to include in their de minimis
270

Although the total gross notional for equity swaps is significantly smaller than credit default
swaps, some number of market participants may incur assessment costs as a result of their equity
swap activity.

271

See Cross-Border Adopting Release, 79 FR 47331-33.

272

Although firms that would already be registered under existing Exchange Act rule 3a71-3 may
not establish systems to count these transactions for purposes of the de minimis exception
because they would already be registered, for purposes of the following analysis, we assume that
they would also incur these costs. In the Cross-Border Adopting Release, we identified 71
persons that would incur systems and analysis costs, but based on 2014 data, as noted above, we
have identified only 57 firms that are likely to incur these costs pursuant to current rules. See
Section II.A.2.e, supra. We continue to believe it is reasonable to increase this estimate by a
factor of two, to account for any potential growth in the security-based swap market and to
account for the fact that we are limited to observing transaction records for activity between nonU.S. persons that reference U.S. underliers. See U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27491.

101

thresholds under Exchange Act rules 3a71-3(b)(1)(iii)(C) and 3a71-5(c). We note that our final
rule should mitigate the concerns of some commenters regarding the costs associated with the
use of the defined term “transactions conducted within the United States” as originally proposed
in the Cross-Border Proposing Release. 273 In particular, by focusing on the location of relevant
personnel of only the dealer (or of its agent), this approach should eliminate the need for nonU.S. persons that engage in dealing activity to assess whether their counterparties (or the
counterparties’ agents) engage in relevant activity in the United States. 274 Accordingly, the
assessment costs arising from the final rule should be lower than under an approach that required
a dealer to consider both the location of its own personnel (or the personnel of its agents) and of
the personnel of its counterparties (or their agents).
The costs these persons incur under the final rule will, to a significant extent, be
influenced by the business structures employed by non-U.S. persons to engage in this dealing
activity, and it is reasonable to expect that non-U.S. persons will generally choose a business
structure that reflects, among other things, a careful consideration of their regulatory costs for
both compliance and assessment. In this section, we discuss the approaches that these market
participants may use to determine which transactions must be counted towards dealer de minimis
thresholds under our approach and, to the extent possible, estimate the per-entity assessment
costs they would incur.
First, non-U.S. persons may perform assessments on a per-transaction basis. We
continue to believe that the approach reflected in our final rule should be less costly to
implement than the approach that we initially proposed in the Cross-Border Proposing Release,
273

See U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27467, supra (discussing cost concerns about
initially proposed approach).

274

See ICI Global Letter at 5.

102

which looked to whether a transaction was conducted, by either counterparty, within the United
States. At the same time, we recognize that performing these assessments could involve
significant costs for persons engaged in dealing activity in the United States. These costs likely
would include one-time costs associated with developing computer systems to capture
information about the location of personnel involved with each transaction in addition to ongoing
costs of analyzing these data and modifying classification of transaction activity as personnel or
offices change locations over time. 275
Based on analogous situations dealing with the development and modification of
information technology (IT) systems that track the location of firm inputs, we estimate the startup costs associated with developing and modifying these systems to track the location of persons
with dealing activity will be $410,000 for the average non-U.S. entity. To the extent that nonU.S. persons already employ such systems, the costs of modifying such IT systems may be lower
than our estimate. In addition to the development or modification of IT systems, we believe that
entities would incur the cost of $6,500 per location per year on an ongoing basis for training,
compliance, and verification costs. 276 We believe a reasonable estimate of these costs in
aggregate is $8,710,000. 277
Second, non-U.S. firms might instead restrict personnel located in a U.S. branch or office
from arranging, negotiating, or executing security-based swaps in connection with the non-U.S.
275

See note 261, supra.

276

Calculated as Internal Cost, 90 hours x $50 per hour = $4,500 plus Consulting Costs, 10 hours x
$200 per hour = $2000, for a total cost of $6,500.

277

Calculated as 134 entities x 10 market centers as identified in TIW x $6,500 per location, for a
total cost of $8,710,000. This estimate assumes that each of the 134 persons that we believe are
likely to incur costs to identify transactions that they are required to include in their de minimis
thresholds under Exchange Act rules 3a71-3(b)(1)(iii)(C) and 3a71-5(c) perform assessments on a
per-transaction basis and further assumes that each person has personnel located in each market
center identified in the TIW. See supra Section II.A.2.c.

103

firm’s dealing activity with non-U.S.-person counterparties. 278 Such restrictions on
communication and staffing for the purposes of avoiding certain Title VII requirements would
reduce the costs of assessing the location of personnel involved in arranging, negotiating, or
executing each trade, and may entirely remove the need for a system that assesses the location of
personnel on a trade-by-trade basis. However, this reduction in assessment costs may be offset
by the additional costs and inefficiencies of duplicating personnel in foreign and U.S.
locations. 279 Accordingly, we believe that non-U.S. persons that primarily trade with non-U.S.
persons on non-U.S. reference entities may be most likely to undertake this approach. However,
because our access to TIW transactions data is limited to transactions in which at least one
counterparty is U.S.-domiciled or the reference entity or security is a U.S. entity or security, we
cannot at this time estimate the size of this set of participants.
While we do not currently have data necessary to precisely estimate these costs in
total, 280 we can estimate the costs of establishing policies and procedures to restrict
communication between personnel located in the United States employed by non-U.S. persons
(or their agents) and other personnel involved in dealing activity. Based on staff experience, we
estimate that establishing policies would take a non-U.S. person approximately 100 hours and
278

See SIFMA/FSR Letter at 2, 6; IIB Letter at 2-3; ISDA Letter at 5.

279

See IIB Letter at 2-3.

280

The aggregate cost of this rule will ultimately depend on how the affected non-U.S. persons
adjust their security-based swap activity because of this rule. For example, if a non-U.S. person
chooses to relocate its operations abroad, it will not incur any direct assessment costs as a result
of this rule, but it will incur the costs to relocate its operations. The cost of relocation will depend
on many factors, such as the number of positions being relocated, the location of new operations,
the costs of operating at the new location, and other factors. These factors in turn will depend on
the relative volumes of dealing activity that a firm carries out on different underliers and with
counterparties in different jurisdictions. As a result of these dependencies, we cannot reliably
quantify the costs of these alternative approaches to compliance. However, we believe that firms
would rely on these approaches only if they expect them to result in higher net profits than
assessments on a per-transaction basis.

104

would cost approximately $28,300 for each entity that chooses this approach. 281 Further, we
believe that the total costs incurred by entities that choose to restrict communication between
personnel would be determined by the number of entities that choose such an approach as well as
the number of additional personnel that these entities must hire as a result of restricted
communication.
Third, a dealer may choose to count all transactions with other non-U.S. persons towards
its de minimis threshold, regardless of whether counting them is required, to avoid the cost of
assessing the locations of personnel involved with each transaction. This strategy may be
preferred by a non-U.S. person engaged in dealing activity that expects few transactions
involving other non-U.S. persons to be arranged, negotiated, and executed by personnel located
outside the United States, such as a non-U.S. person that primarily transacts in security-based
swaps on U.S. reference entities or securities, and generally relies on personnel located in the
United States to perform market-facing activities. For these non-U.S. persons, the expected
benefits of identifying a few transactions that do not involve dealing activity by personnel from a
location in the United States, which would not be required to be counted toward the person’s de
minimis threshold, might be lower than the costs of implementing a system to track the locations
of personnel on a trade-by-trade basis.
281

Calculated as Compliance Manager, 100 hours x $283 per hour = $28,300. We use salary figures
from SIFMA’s Management & Professional Earnings in the Securities Industry 2013, modified
by SEC staff to account for an 1800-hour work-year and multiplied by 5.35 to account for
bonuses, firm size, employee benefits, and overhead.
The costs of policies and procedures are based on burden estimates in the recent Nationally
Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations; Final Rule, Exchange Act Release No. 72936
(August 27, 2014), 79 FR 55078 (September 15, 2015) (“NRSRO Adopting Release”).
Specifically, we assume that the policies and procedures required to restrict communication
between personnel located in a U.S. branch or office and personnel not located in a U.S. branch
or office are similar to policies and procedures required to eliminate conflicts of interest under
Rule 17g-5(c)(8). See NRSRO Adopting Release, 79 FR 55239, 55249.

105

We believe that the same principles apply to non-U.S. persons that rely on agents to
arrange, negotiate, or execute security-based swaps on their behalf. We anticipate that non-U.S.
persons may employ any of the strategies above to comply with the final rules through the choice
of their agents. For example, a non-U.S. person may choose agents that do not use U.S.-based
personnel to avoid the assessment and programmatic costs of this rule. We also anticipate that a
non-U.S. person might rely on representations from its agents about whether transactions
conducted on its behalf involved relevant dealing activity by personnel from a location in the
United States. This may occur on a transaction-by-transaction basis, or, if the agent uses
personnel located in the United States in all or none of its transactions, it may choose to make a
representation about the entirety of the agent’s business.
We believe that all the methods described above are likely to involve an initial one-time
review of security-based swap business lines to help each entity determine which of the business
structures outlined above is optimal. This review likely will encompass both employees of
potential registrants as well as employees of agents used by potential registrants and identify
whether these personnel are involved in arranging, negotiating, or executing security-based
swaps. The information gathered as a result of this review would allow a foreign security-based
swap dealer to assess the revenues it expects to flow from transaction activity performed by
personnel located in a U.S. branch or office. This information would also help these market
participants form preliminary estimates about the costs associated with various alternative
structures, including the trade-by-trade analysis outlined above. This initial review may be
followed with reassessment at regular intervals or subsequent to major changes in the market
participant’s security-based swap business, such as acquisition or divestiture of business units.
We estimate that the per-entity initial costs of a review of business lines would be approximately

106

$104,000. 282 Further, we believe that periodic reassessment of business lines would cost, on
average, $52,000 per year, per entity. 283
B. Programmatic Costs and Benefits
Programmatic costs and benefits arise from applying substantive regulation to those
transactions and entities that fall within the scope of the Title VII regulatory regime. 284
Commenters raised a wide range of concerns about costs, both the direct costs of compliance
with Title VII dealer requirements on the part of persons required to register and broader costs to
the market as a whole. With respect to the former, commenters generally argued that the
proposed rules would impose significant additional and unwarranted costs on firms that are
required to register as security-based swap dealers, given that the proposed rules are not likely to
generate significant benefits. 285 Several commenters specifically urged the Commission to

282

Calculated as (Senior Accountant, 500 hours x $198 per hour) + (Outside Counsel, 5 hours x
$400 per hour) + (Compliance Attorney, 2 hours x $334 per hour) + (Compliance Manager, 8
hours x $283 per hour) = $103,932.

283

This estimate is based on previous experience with cost estimates for financial statements for a
large financial institution. An entity’s assessment costs may require it to determine the amount of
profits that it expected to flow from transaction activity performed by personnel located in the
United States and compare it to the flow of profits from transaction activity performed by
personnel not located in a U.S. branch or office. To the extent that the preparation of financial
statements also involves analysis of the flow of profits from an entity’s different business lines,
we believe that the cost of preparing financial statements provide a reasonable estimate of
assessment costs. However, we acknowledge that costs associated with assessment and
compliance for a given firm will depend on the firm’s size and structure. Calculated as (Senior
Accountant, 250 hours x $198 per hour) + (Compliance Attorney, 4 hours x $334 per hour) +
(Compliance Manager, 4 hours x $283 per hour) = $51,968. We use salary figures from SIFMA’s
Management & Professional Earnings in the Securities Industry 2013, modified by SEC staff to
account for an 1800-hour work-year and multiplied by 5.35 to account for bonuses, firm size,
employee benefits and overhead.

284

See Intermediary Definitions Adopting Release, 77 FR 30722.

285

According to commenters, costs include those associated with compliance with the various
requirements that apply to registered security-based swap dealers under Title VII, and costs
arising from relocation of personnel and operations to avoid application of Title VII requirements
and any market fragmentation that results. See, e.g., ISDA Letter at 6 (arguing that the proposed
approach “will result in the unnecessary application of onerous and costly U.S. regulatory

107

perform “additional cost-benefit analysis” that reflects the ease with which market participants
can move their business out of the United States. 286 Some commenters noted that the proposed
approach may impose disproportionate costs on certain market participants that carry out their
dealing business using separately incorporated subsidiaries or affiliates in other jurisdictions. 287
Several commenters expressed concerns that our approach would create a strong
incentive to move dealing business out of the United States, and that this exit would have
negative effects on market structure, risk management, and market efficiency. 288 Some

requirements to non-U.S. entities”); HSBC Letter at 3 (arguing that costs of requiring firms to
register on the basis of U.S. activity would exceed the benefits and cause both non-U.S.
subsidiaries and the Commission to incur significant costs); IIB Letter at 3-4, 6-7 (arguing that
the proposed rules would not only result in costs to the market such as market fragmentation,
decentralized risk management, and home country compliance costs, but also significant costs to
the Commission in overseeing the additional registered security-based swap dealers); SIFMA
Sequencing Letter at 5 (arguing that the Commission’s approach should accommodate the risk
management and operational structures that market participants already have in place). See also
ISDA Letter at 9 (suggesting that by not leveraging existing broker-dealer recordkeeping
requirements to include access to the books and records relating to SBS transaction between nonU.S. persons in their dealing capacity, the proposal “only adds complexity and cost without
offering any corresponding benefit”).
286

See IIB Letter at 4 (stating, among other things, that non-U.S. persons can opt not to do business
with U.S. security-based swap dealers or with non-U.S. security-based swap dealers that use
personnel in the United States, and non-U.S. security-based swap dealers may feel compelled to
move personnel out of the United States, limiting the security-based swap dealers’ ability to
centralize risk management and increase costs and affect pricing to non-U.S. persons); ISDA
Letter at 6 (urging the Commission to complete its cost-benefit analysis, including by providing a
quantitative account of the benefits that would result from adoption of the proposal and
comparing the costs of regulatory approaches that may be less burdensome).

287

See SIFMA/FSR Letter at 6-7; HSBC Letter at 2 (stating also that firms may be required to
register multiple foreign affiliates as security-based swap dealers to the extent that they rely on
personnel of affiliates located in the United States to interact with the foreign customers of these
foreign subsidiaries, in part because it may not be practicable for counterparties to shift their
trading relationship to an affiliate of its dealer, given that security-based swap transactions may
represent only a small portion of their overall trading relationship with the dealer).

288

See IIB Letter at 2-3; ISDA Letter at 5; SIFMA/FSR Letter at 6. Commenters argued that exit
from U.S. market centers would potentially interfere with efficient pricing and prudent risk
management, as this depends on centralization of pricing, hedging, and other risk-management
functions with trading personnel, preferably “in the region of the underlying asset.” One
commenter also argued that centralizing these functions in the United States, where the traders

108

commenters also suggested that foreign counterparties of non-U.S. persons engaged in dealing
activity may be reluctant to devote the resources necessary to comply with Title VII rules, and
may instead opt to exit the U.S. security-based-swap market. 289
In the following sections, we discuss the costs and benefits of requiring a non-U.S.
person to include in its de minimis threshold calculations any transaction that it, in connection
with its dealing activity, arranges, negotiates, or executes using personnel located in a U.S.
branch or office.
1. Benefits and costs of the final rules
Because the set of market participants that are subject to security-based swap dealer
regulation under Title VII will determine the allocation and flow of programmatic costs and
benefits arising from these Title VII requirements, the inclusion of additional transactions that
must be counted under Exchange Act rule 3a71-3(b), as amended, will affect the ultimate costs
and benefits of our transaction-level and entity-level rules. At this time, we are unable to
precisely estimate the number of potential new dealers that would be required to register because
we cannot observe in the data the location of entities’ dealing activity. However, even if we
assume that all North American single-name CDS security-based swap dealing activity takes
place in the United States, currently available data suggest that no additional entities above the
baseline would be required to register. 290

are located “also helps promote U.S. market liquidity by integrating trading interest from nonU.S. counterparties into the U.S. market.” See IIB Letter at 2.
289

See, e.g., IIB Letter at 4 (stating that “[n]on-U.S. counterparties have shown great reluctance to
undertake significant documentation changes due to the costs and resources necessary to obtain
familiarity with a complicated body of foreign law”).

290

In Section V.A, supra, we have identified, as a result of this rule, approximately 10 non-U.S.
entities that would exceed the $2 billion threshold we used in 2014 to identify entities that may
incur assessment costs and thus would be likely to assess their transactions to determine whether

109

At the same time, we believe it is important to acknowledge the potential for a change in
the number of registrants as a result of, among other things, security-based swap dealing activity
located in the United States that is not reflected in the data, including equity swaps transactions
that are not in our available data, transactions on non-U.S. underliers that non-U.S.-person
dealers carry out in the United States that are not accounted for under the assumptions
underlying this analysis, and the aggregation of the transactions of affiliated entities that do not
themselves exceed the de minimis thresholds but must count transactions that involve marketfacing activity by personnel located in a U.S. branch or office. 291 The notional amounts of these
additional types of transactions may cause some additional non-U.S. entities to exceed the de
minimis threshold as a result of this rule.
However, it is unclear how market participants might react to the final rules. Some nonU.S. entities, including those that might be required to register as a result of this rule because of
transactions that lie beyond the scope of our available data, may instead prefer to restructure or
relocate to avoid registration as a result of this rule. 292 Other non-U.S. entities may otherwise

they are required to register as a dealer. Of these 10 entities, we believe that none would exceed
the $3 billion dealer de minimis threshold and thus be required to register as a security-based
swap dealer. Given that we have multiplied our estimates by two to take into account portions of
the security-based swap market we are unable to observe with our data, we estimate that 20
additional entities would incur assessment costs as a result of relevant activity exceeding the $2
billion threshold, and that zero additional entities will exceed the $3 billion dealer de minimis
threshold.
291

Under Exchange Act rules 3a71-2(a) and 3a71-4, a person engaged in dealing activity must
aggregate the notional amount of its dealing activity that must be counted toward the de minimis
threshold with that of any person controlling, controlled by, or under common control with such
person, unless that person is registered with the Commission as a security-based swap dealer or
deemed not to be a security-based swap dealer pursuant to Exchange Act rule 3a71-2(b). Cf. IIB
Letter at 3 (stating that the proposed approach to the de minimis counting requirement could
impose prohibitive costs on non-U.S.-person dealers that intend to operate under the de minimis
threshold).

292

See note 286, supra.

110

alter their behavior in response to these amendments, given the potential change in costs of
conducting dealing activity using personnel or their agents located in a U.S. branch or office.
Although we are able to provide some estimates of the direct programmatic costs of these
amendments, the extent to which market participants’ activities are sensitive to these costs is
difficult to quantify.
Notwithstanding these uncertainties, we believe the rules being considered for adoption
today represent an important step towards treating substantially all dealing activity occurring in
the United States similarly for purposes of determining whether a market participant is subject to
the Title VII security-based swap dealer regime. We expect the final rules to yield benefits by
reducing differences in the treatment of similar activity by U.S. persons and non-U.S. persons in
the United States and potential gaps in the Title VII regulatory regime for security-based swap
entities.
Additionally, we expect consistent treatment of dealing activity carried out within the
United States to affect competition and market fragmentation. As discussed elsewhere in this
release, 293 we believe these amendments may mitigate the competitive disparities that would
result from application of the Title VII dealer requirements under existing rules and that would
permit non-U.S. persons to carry out significant volumes of dealing activity using personnel
located in the United States without being required to register as a security-based swap dealer.
The competitive disparities would create an incentive for, among other things, financial groups
that carry out their security-based swap dealing business in a U.S.-person dealer to restructure a
potentially significant proportion of this business to be carried out in a non-U.S.-person dealer.

293

See Section IV.B.2, supra; Section V.B.2, infra.

111

Even if the non-U.S.-person dealers continued using personnel located in a U.S. branch
or office to arrange, negotiate, or execute security-based swap transactions, this type of
restructuring could fragment the market into two pools, as the non-U.S.-person dealers that
engage in dealing activity with other non-U.S. persons (whether dealers or otherwise) would
have a strong incentive not to engage in dealing activity with U.S.-person counterparties. To the
extent that the interdealer business and other dealing business with non-U.S.-person
counterparties is moved to non-U.S.-person dealers, a significant majority of security-based swap
dealing activity carried out in the United States could be inaccessible to U.S. persons. These
counterparties would instead be limited to a much smaller pool of liquidity consisting of U.S.
persons and dealers (whether U.S. persons or non-U.S. persons) that are willing to face U.S.person counterparties.
However, under these amendments, non-U.S. dealers that carry out a large volume of
transaction activity using personnel located in a U.S. branch or office would not be able to avoid
registration obligations under Title VII unless they relocate these personnel to locations outside
the United States or restructure operations to use different personnel that are located outside the
United States. Because these forms of restructuring, and the resulting market fragmentation,
would impose costs on non-U.S. dealers associated with moving personnel outside the United
States and/or foregoing the expertise of sales, trading, and other personnel located in a U.S.
branch or office, these amendments should reduce the likelihood or extent of market
fragmentation and associated distortions. 294
Given that the ultimate number of non-U.S. entities that are required to register as a result
of this rule will depend on several factors that are beyond the scope of our available data or are
294

See note 108, supra.

112

inherently difficult to quantify, we believe that it is appropriate for purposes of this analysis to
assume that it is possible that more entities will register as SBS dealers. 295 We also note that we
expect a significant benefit of this rule to be its role in preventing significant volumes of dealing
activity from being carried out in the United States without being subject to Title VII dealer
requirements. 296
If these final rules regarding the de minimis exception result in an increased number of
non-U.S. persons that eventually register as security-based swap dealers or if they prevent firms
from carrying on dealing activity in the United States without complying with Title VII dealer
requirements, requirements applicable to registered dealers under Title VII (including, among
others, capital requirements, recordkeeping requirements, and designation of a chief compliance
officer) would apply to a larger number of dealers than without these rules. 297 Additionally, an
increase in the number of registered dealers would also mean that business conduct requirements

295

We do not believe that the exception for certain international organizations in the final rule will
have any effect on the number of security-based swap dealers, as such entities do not appear to
engage in dealing activity to any significant extent. See Sullivan and Cromwell Letter at 2, note
5. Similarly, given our current understanding of the market, we do not believe it likely that final
Exchange Act rule 3a71-5(c) will increase the number of security-based swap dealers, as any
non-U.S. persons engaged in significant dealing activity in cleared, anonymous transactions are
likely to already be required to register on the basis of their other dealing activity.

296

See Section IV.B.2, supra.

297

See IIB Letter at 5-7, 10 (arguing that registration with the Commission would subject certain
non-U.S. market participants to various requirements despite posing no risk to the U.S. financial
system; arguing that not adopting the proposed approach would permit the Commission to avoid
expending resources on overseeing non-U.S. persons that may be required to register solely on
the basis of aggregation with other affiliates); ISDA Letter at 6 (arguing that the proposed
approach “will result in the unnecessary application of onerous and costly U.S. regulatory
requirements to non-U.S. entities”); HSBC Letter at 2-3 (arguing that costs of requiring firms to
register on the basis of U.S. activity would exceed the benefits and cause both non-U.S.
subsidiaries and the Commission to incur significant costs).

113

and Regulation SBSR would apply to a larger number of transactions, as well as to a larger
notional volume of transactions. 298
In addition, these final rules may mitigate the risk that might flow into U.S. financial
markets by requiring the inclusion in dealer de minimis calculations of transactions that, while
less likely to directly expose U.S. persons to counterparty risk, may allow financial risk to spill
over into U.S. markets. As noted above, 299 reputational risk and liquidity spillovers represent two
channels by which risks in foreign security-based swap markets may manifest in U.S. financial
markets without the involvement of U.S. persons as counterparties. By requiring that all nonU.S. persons that use personnel located in a U.S. branch or office to arrange, negotiate, or
execute security-based swaps in connection with their dealing activity include such transactions
in their de minimis threshold calculations, the final rules should mitigate risk from both channels.
The final rules should increase the likelihood that the Title VII dealer framework, including
capital and margin requirements, applies both to the foreign affiliates of U.S. persons and to
other foreign dealers that engage in dealing activity in U.S. security-based swap markets.
Increasing the likelihood that this activity, which may represent the overwhelming majority of

298

Under rule 901(a)(2)(ii), all transactions that include a registered security-based swap dealer on a
transaction side are subject to regulatory reporting requirements.
We note that our conclusion that the adopted approach will result in these requirements being
applied to a larger number of transactions and notional volume of transactions requires the
assumption that the demand for liquidity from security-based swap dealers is not very sensitive to
price. Put another way, so long as market participants’ demand for risk sharing opportunities
provided by security-based swap transactions is relatively inelastic, any reduction in transaction
volume due to the costs of Title VII regulation is unlikely to fully offset the increase in the scope
of security-based swap transactions subject to Title VII regulation under the final rules. If, on the
other hand, demand for liquidity is elastic, then the effects of higher costs may dominate any
increase in the scope of external business conduct and regulatory reporting requirements,
resulting in these requirements being applied to a smaller number and lower notional value of
transactions.

299

See Section II.B, supra.

114

security-based swap dealing activity in the United States, is carried out by firms subject to Title
VII capital, margin, and other security-based swap dealer requirements should mitigate the
likelihood of the types of firm failures that may be likely to give rise to such risks.
We recognize that compliance with these requirements will impose direct costs on
persons that are required to register as a result of these amendments, and that some firms may be
required to register multiple entities because of how they have chosen to structure their
business. 300 Other firms may be required to register as security-based swap dealers even though
they use personnel located in a U.S. branch or office in connection with dealing activity only for
certain asset classes in which they carry on a dealing business. 301 We also understand that firms
may incur other costs associated with maintaining separate sales and trading operations, in part
because non-U.S.-person counterparties are reluctant to trade with dealers that are required to
register under Title VII, 302 or in connection with otherwise accommodating the preferences of
non-U.S.-person counterparties. In some cases, these adjustments may reduce the efficiency of a
non-U.S.-person’s operations and increase operational risks, depending on the response of a
particular firm to the final rules. 303
At the same time, we continue to believe that, notwithstanding these costs, the final rules
will produce significant benefits to the U.S. financial markets and participants in those markets,
300

See note 287, supra.

301

See SIFMA/FSR Letter at 7. We note, however, that this is true of any dealer that exceeds the de
minimis threshold with respect to only one asset class in which it carries on a dealing business: In
the Intermediaries Definitions Adopting Release, the Commission and the CFTC stated that the
final rules reflected the presumption that “a person who meets one of the dealer definitions will
be deemed to be a dealer with regard to all of its swaps or security-based swaps activities” absent
a limitation on this designation in response to application from the registrant. See Intermediaries
Definition Adopting Release, 77 FR 30644-645.

302

See note 289, supra.

303

See, e.g., IIB Letter at 2-3.

115

in terms of promoting uniform application of Title VII dealer requirements, reducing competitive
disparities, mitigating the likelihood or extent of market fragmentation, and mitigating the risk of
spillovers and contagion, as we have discussed in detail above. 304 Given these benefits,
particularly in light of the magnitude of the potential competitive disparities that a more
consistent application of Title VII dealer regulation may be expected to mitigate, we believe that
the approach reflected in the final rules is appropriate even in light of the potential costs
described by commenters.
2. Effects of rule amendments on efficiency, competition, and capital formation
The final rules are likely to affect efficiency, competition and capital formation in the
security-based swap market through their effect on the scope of participants subject to dealer
requirements under Title VII. In particular, the amendments may increase the likelihood that
certain non-U.S. dealers would exceed de minimis levels of dealing activity and be required to
register with the Commission. At the same time, they may make it more difficult to continue
engaging in dealing activity in U.S. market centers while avoiding Title VII dealer requirements.
Accordingly, the final rules and amendments will affect the security-based swap market
in a number of ways. A number of the potential effects that we discuss below are related to price
efficiency, liquidity, and risk sharing. These effects are difficult to quantify for a number of
reasons. First, in many cases the effects are contingent upon strategic responses of market
participants. For instance, several commenters have noted that non-U.S. persons may choose to
relocate personnel, which may make it more difficult for U.S. counterparties to access liquidity

304

See, e.g., Sections II.B and IV.B.2, supra.

116

in security-based swaps. 305 The magnitude of these effects on liquidity and on risk sharing
depend upon a number of factors that we cannot estimate, including the likelihood of relocation,
the availability of substitute liquidity suppliers, and the availability of substitute hedging assets.
Therefore, much of the discussion below is qualitative in nature, although we try to describe,
where possible, the direction of these effects.
Moreover, there are many cases in which a rule could have two opposing effects, making
it difficult to estimate a net impact on efficiency, competition, or capital formation. For
example, while non-U.S. person dealers may have an incentive to relocate their operations
outside of the United States to avoid the potential costs of dealer registration and requirements as
a result of these rules, we assume that dealers would prefer to relocate their operations only if the
benefits to the dealer of avoiding Title VII dealer registration and requirements exceed the cost
of relocation. 306 By defining the scope of transactions that must be counted toward a non-U.S.
person’s de minimis threshold, this final approach not only affects the set of entities that would
be subject to dealer registration and regulatory requirements, but also affects the extent—and
cost—of relocation necessary to avoid dealer registration. The magnitude of these two opposing
effects will depend on factors such as the sensitivity of traders to information about order flow,

305

See IIB Letter at 2-3; ISDA Letter at 5; SIFMA/FSR Letter at 6. See also HSBC Letter at 2. See
Section II.B, supra, for a discussion of potential effects of the final rules on non-U.S. persons’
incentives to use personnel located in U.S. branches or offices to arrange, negotiate, or execute
security-based swap transactions in the context of our economic considerations in formulating
these rules. But see Citadel Letter at 12 (arguing that other commenters are overstating the
possibility that U.S. personnel will be relocated outside of the United States in reaction to the
adopted rules).

306

See Citadel Letter at 12; Section II.A.2.c, supra. But see IIB Letter at 2-3 (stating that non-U.S.
security-based swap dealers may need to relocate front office personnel from the United States in
response to a U.S. activity test); ISDA Letter at 5 (stating that to continue to transact in U.S.
products dealers will have incentives to move market-facing employees outside the United
States); SIFMA/FSR Letter at 6 (explaining that dealers may move experts in U.S.-listed products
outside of the United States to avoid the SEC’s registration and regulatory requirements).

117

the impact of public dissemination of transaction information on the execution costs of large
orders, and the ease with which non-U.S. persons can find substitutes that avoid contact with
personnel located in a U.S. branch or office. 307 Each of these factors is difficult to quantify
individually, which makes the net impact on efficiency difficult to quantify.
Notwithstanding this uncertainty, the amendments related to the treatment of transactions
arranged, negotiated, or executed by personnel located in a U.S. branch or office for the purposes
of de minimis calculations likely broaden the scope of security-based swap transactions and
entities to which the Title VII regulatory regime for security-based swap dealers applies. As a
result, the amendments may amplify the effects on efficiency, competition, and capital formation
of rules already adopted as well as of future substantive rulemakings that place responsibilities
on registered security-based swap dealers to carry out entity- or transaction-level requirements
applicable to security-based swap dealers under Title VII. 308
Our amendments reflect consideration of the potentially inefficient restructuring and
reduced access to the security-based swap markets by U.S. persons on the one hand 309 and, on
the other, advancing the objectives of Title VII as discussed in detail above. 310 Requiring these
transactions to be included in their de minimis calculations may cause these non-U.S. dealers to
incur registration costs (or prevent them from avoiding these costs while continuing to engage in
dealing activity in the United States) and costs arising from dealer requirements under the Title
VII regulatory regime, such as certain business conduct requirements, as well as under other
307

See notes 57-59 and accompanying text, supra.

308

See Cross-Border Adopting Release, 79 FR 47361.

309

See note 102, supra.

310

See Section IV.B.2, supra. In particular, these final rules potentially reduce the risk of financial
contagion and fraudulent or manipulative conduct by applying security-based swap dealer
regulation to the appropriate set of entities whose activities raise these concerns. See id.

118

Title VII requirements, such as Regulation SBSR. These costs may represent barriers to entry
for non-U.S. persons that contemplate engaging in dealing activity using their own personnel or
personnel of their agents located in a U.S. branch or office or may provide incentives for nonU.S. persons that currently engage in relevant activity using personnel or personnel of their
agents located in a U.S. branch or office to restructure their business and move operations abroad
or use agents with personnel outside of the United States. 311 The barriers to entry and incentives
to exit the market may reduce the number of security-based swap dealers willing to trade with
U.S. person counterparties, which may impede the incorporation of new information into prices.
The application of this approach to agents acting on behalf of non-U.S. persons may have
similar effects on efficiency, competition, and capital formation. For example, the regulatory
costs stemming from dealer registration may provide direct incentives for non-U.S. persons to
avoid using personnel of agents located in a U.S. branch or office (or agents with such personnel)
to arrange, negotiate, or execute security-based swaps on their behalf. By reducing the ability of
these agents to compete for business from non-U.S. persons, the final rules may reduce entry by
potential agents because of this competitive disadvantage, or cause existing agents to relocate or
restructure their business to minimize contact with the United States. 312 In addition, to the extent
that using agents with personnel located in a U.S. branch or office might result in substantial
regulatory costs to non-U.S.-person dealers, such non-U.S.-person dealers might prefer and
primarily use agents located outside the United States, while U.S. dealers might continue to use

311

See Cross-Border Adopting Release, 79 FR 47362.

312

We also note that, under the final rules, non-U.S. persons may be willing to pay higher prices for
higher quality services provided by non-U.S.-person counterparties that use personnel or agents
located in the United States because the ability of these counterparties to meet the standards set
by Title VII may be a credible signal of high quality. See Cross-Border Adopting Release, 79 FR
47362 n.762.

119

agents located in the United States. This incentive to split dealer and agent relationships on the
basis of the location of personnel, as with the potential relocation of personnel discussed above,
might also adversely affect the efficiency of risk sharing by security-based swap market
participants.
Reduced market entry or restructuring by non-U.S. persons and their agents, and efforts
by non-U.S. persons to choose agents, solely for the purposes of avoiding Title VII regulation in
response to our final rules, may be inefficient, may raise costs to market participants, and may
reduce the level of participation by personnel of non-U.S. persons located in the United States, or
personnel of their agents located in the United States. 313
We also believe that the amendments will affect competition among security-based swap
dealers. Several commenters noted this possibility. One commenter argued that the competitive
issues arising from the Commission’s proposal were very complex and did not depend solely on
the scope of application of Title VII regulatory requirements. 314 For example, many, if not all,
foreign security-based swap dealers are likely to be subject to regulatory requirements in their
home jurisdiction and may, therefore, already be subject to a competitive disparity with respect
to U.S. firms, entirely independent of whether they are also required to register as security-based
swap dealers. 315 This commenter also argued that the proposal would generate competitive
disparities between U.S. and non-U.S. personnel of foreign security-based swap dealers. 316
313

See id. at 47364.

314

See IIB Letter at 4.

315

See id.

316

See id. One commenter argued that the Commission’s proposed approach likely would impose a
particularly significant burden on firms that carry out their business, and book their securitybased swap transactions, through local affiliates. See HSBC Letter. This commenter argued that
this would create a “severe and disparate” impact on such firms, even though they have organized
their business using this structure “for bona fide commercial reasons.” Id. at 3.

120

Another commenter supported the re-proposed approach over the original proposal, arguing that
it would prevent foreign funds that have a U.S. asset manager from being put at a competitive
disadvantage compared to foreign funds with a foreign asset manager and would therefore avoid
driving business overseas (as the commenter believed that the original proposal would have
done). 317
As noted in Section II.B, in the absence of these amendments, a U.S. person engaged in
dealing activity and facing a non-U.S.-person counterparty or its agent would face different
regulatory treatment under Title VII from a non-U.S. person engaged in the same activity with
the same counterparty or its agent, even if both are arranging, negotiating, or executing the
security-based swap using personnel located in a U.S. branch or office. As a result, and as some
commenters argue, current rules may introduce different costs for U.S. security-based swap
dealers and foreign security-based swap dealers, as well as their respective agents, that seek to
supply liquidity to non-U.S. persons as a result of Title VII regulation. Under the current rules,
non-U.S. persons seeking or supplying liquidity may also be reluctant to transact with a U.S.
person because of the additional expected costs of dealer regulation and of future substantive
regulations under Title VII that rest on the U.S.-person status of counterparties. 318
These differences could introduce competitive disparities between U.S. persons and nonU.S. persons or their respective agents even if both, in connection with their dealing activity, use
personnel located in the United States. 319 As a result, to the extent that dealers may have the
flexibility to restructure their operations in response to competitive disparities in regulation, a
317

See ICI Global Letter at 2, 5. The commenter stated that “the Commission’s modified approach
would no longer incentivize non-U.S. dealers to avoid engaging in swaps transactions with a nonU.S. regulated fund with a U.S. manager to stay under the [de minimis] threshold”. Id. at 2.

318

See note 289, supra.

319

See section II.B, supra. See also IIB Letter at 2-3; ISDA Letter at 5; SIFMA/FSR Letter at 6.

121

significant portion of the security-based swap market may exit from the Title VII regime, and a
significant portion of the market may be susceptible to fragmentation as a result. 320 We believe
that a significant portion of the costs of such a fragmentation would be borne by U.S.-person
counterparties through higher spreads and by U.S. security-based swap dealers through the loss
of non-U.S. person customers. The amendments may mitigate these competitive frictions
because non-U.S. persons would be required to count transactions arranged, negotiated, or
executed by personnel located in a U.S. branch or office towards their de minimis thresholds in a
way that is identical to their U.S.-person competitors. 321
At the same time, we acknowledge that this account of competitive impacts is
complicated by the fact that many non-U.S. persons are likely to be subject to foreign regulatory
frameworks that may, in certain respects, be similar to the Title VII dealer requirements. 322 To
the extent that these requirements achieve comparable regulatory outcomes, we note that we
have proposed rules for a substituted compliance mechanism, which should mitigate this source
of competitive disparity to the extent that we make substituted compliance determinations and
the other prerequisites to substituted compliance have been satisfied. At the same time, we
recognize that there will be limits to the availability of substituted compliance, including the
possibility that substituted compliance may be permitted with regard to some requirements and

320

As noted in Section II.A.3, supra, analysis of TIW data shows that 79.5 percent of North
American corporate single-name CDS transactions in 2014 involved either two ISDA-recognized
dealers or an ISDA-recognized dealer and a non-U.S.-person non-dealer. We believe that
restructuring as a response to competitive disparities stemming from Title VII regulation is more
likely to occur within this subset of the market because these dealers currently operate from
locations throughout the world and enjoy a volume of business that is more likely to make such
restructuring profitable.

321

See Cross-Border Adopting Release, 79 FR 39152; Cross-Border Proposing Release, 78 FR
31127.

322

See Section II.A.4, supra.

122

not others, or that, in certain circumstances, substituted compliance may not be permitted with
respect to any requirements with regard to a particular jurisdiction, depending on our assessment
of the comparability of the relevant foreign requirements and the availability of supervisory and
enforcement arrangements among the Commission and relevant foreign financial regulatory
authorities. As we have noted above, however, we do not believe it would be appropriate to
permit foreign security-based swap dealers to satisfy their obligations under Title VII by
complying with foreign requirements when the prerequisites to substituted compliance have not
been satisfied. 323
The amendment to rule 3a71-5 provides that its exception for cleared, anonymous
transactions does not apply to non-U.S. persons that arrange, negotiate or execute transactions
using personnel located in a U.S. branch or office or using agents with personnel located in a
U.S. branch or office. Although non-U.S. persons engaged in dealing activity in the United
States may also, as some commenters have suggested, find it more difficult to access foreign
trading platforms, 324 this amendment may also reduce the competitive frictions that would exist
if the final rules retained the exception for such non-U.S. person dealers. Such an exception
would provide such non-U.S.-person dealers a potential competitive advantage relative to U.S.
persons through lower regulatory compliance and assessment costs, as the non-U.S. persons
would be able to avoid including these transactions in their de minimis calculations, while U.S.
persons would be required to count all such transactions towards their de minimis thresholds.
However, we also note that, to the extent that non-U.S. persons otherwise would have
relied upon this exception to engage in cleared, anonymous transactions using personnel located

323

See Section IV.B.3, supra.

324

See note 231, supra.

123

in a U.S. branch or office, our final approach may impair efficiency and capital formation by
reducing liquidity in anonymous markets, increasing transaction costs, and reducing
opportunities for risk-sharing among security-based swap market participants as non-U.S.
persons reduce their security-based swap activity or switch to alternative methods to hedge
risk. 325
As some commenters have argued, 326 the final rule may result in inefficient restructuring
to move the arrangement, negotiation, and execution of cleared, anonymous transactions abroad,
in order to avoid activities that would require counting towards de minimis thresholds. This shift
in the market could reduce the expected programmatic benefits described above. 327 It also may
have adverse consequences for the availability of liquidity and the amount of transaction costs
for U.S. persons seeking to hedge risk using security-based swaps. If non-U.S. persons relocate
their dealing activity abroad in ways that make it more difficult for U.S. persons to find liquidity
in the United States, those U.S. persons that might otherwise use security-based swaps to hedge
financial and commercial risks may reduce their hedging activity and assume an inefficient
amount of risk, or engage in precautionary savings by accumulating capital to mitigate the
effects of market risks, which would inhibit capital formation. To the extent that non-U.S.
persons use personnel located in a U.S. branch or office to engage in dealing activity only in
particular categories of security-based swaps, such as those involving U.S. reference entities, we
believe that the potential consequences of relocation on liquidity and risk sharing would be most
concentrated in those categories.
325

See Cross-Border Adopting Release, 79 FR 47363.

326

See note 102, supra (citing comment letters asserting that the final rules may result in inefficient
restructuring of business generally).

327

See IIB Letter at 4 (arguing that avoidance of U.S. personnel by non-U.S. counterparties would
likely reduce the transparency benefits of the proposed approach).

124

Finally, we note that relocation of dealing activity by non-U.S. persons in response to
today’s amendments may produce the same type of market fragmentation we seek to avoid under
existing rules. However, we expect fewer non-U.S. entities may exit U.S. markets under the
amendments than in their absence. As noted above, in the absence of these amendments, nonU.S. entities that wished to avoid Title VII regulation would incur potentially lower costs, as they
would not have to relocate their personnel and would only need to change the booking entity for
their U.S.-facing business above the de minimis thresholds. This type of restructuring would
likely lead to market fragmentation, as described above, given that non-U.S.-person dealers
would have a strong incentive not to engage in dealing activity with U.S.-person counterparties,
even if they continued to use personnel located in a U.S. branch or office to arrange, negotiate, or
execute their transactions. On the other hand, the amendments being adopted today likely will
increase the costs of the types of restructuring that would lead to market fragmentation. As noted
above, in addition to the costs of relocating personnel who arrange, negotiate, or execute
security-based swap transactions, non-U.S. persons who choose to relocate dealing activity as a
result of the amendments would forgo the benefits of access to local expertise in security-based
swaps based on U.S. reference entities. As a result, we believe that the likelihood or extent of
market fragmentation should be lower under the amendments being adopted today.
C. Alternatives Considered
In developing these amendments we considered a number of alternative approaches. 328
This section outlines these alternatives and discusses the potential economic effects of each.

328

Cf. ISDA Letter at 6 (urging the Commission to complete a cost-benefit analysis of the proposed
approach that considers the benefits and costs that would apply to non-U.S. persons, taking into
account alternative approaches that would achieve the goals preventing fraud and manipulation).

125

1. Retention of the definition of “transaction conducted within the United
States”
In the Cross-Border Proposing Release, we originally proposed the definition
“transaction conducted within the United States” and used it to identify (i) transactions that
should be included in an entity’s de minimis threshold calculations, and (ii) transactions that,
subject to certain exceptions, would be subject to business conduct, clearing, trade execution,
regulatory reporting, and public dissemination requirements under Title VII. The original
objective of the initially proposed definition was identical to this rule: to capture relevant dealing
activity within the United States in order to mitigate competitive frictions and prevent a non-U.S.
person from shifting its security-based swap dealing activity to a non-U.S. person and continuing
to carry out this dealing activity in the United States while avoiding application of the Title VII
requirements. That initial approach would have looked to whether dealing activity involved a
“transaction conducted within the United States,” which, as defined in that proposal, turned on
the location of personnel on both sides of the transaction.
Most commenters supported the narrower approach set forth in our U.S. Activity
Proposing Release, which focused only on the location of relevant activity of a counterparty
acting in a dealing capacity in the transaction 329 and the limitation of relevant activity to
“market-facing” activity of that counterparty. 330 One commenter stated that the modified
approach created “a definable standard that will bring clarity to the application of security-based
swap requirements to security-based swap dealers, and is appropriate and consistent with the

329

See ICI Global Letter at 1-2, 5-6 (stating that the modified proposal would enable non-U.S.
dealers to enter into transactions with non-U.S. persons that may use a U.S. fund manager without
requiring the non-U.S. dealer to include the transaction in its de minimis calculations).

330

See IIB Letter at 17; SIFMA/FSR Letter at 3.

126

expectations of parties as to when U.S. security-based swap requirements will apply.” 331
Although one commenter argued that a non-U.S. person should be required to include a
transaction with another non-U.S. person in its dealer de minimis threshold calculations if either
counterparty is engaged in relevant activity in the United States, 332 we have determined to adopt
the approach proposed in our U.S. Activity Proposing Release in part because we agree with
other commenters that the initially proposed approach likely would have increased assessment
costs significantly without materially enhancing the benefits of our Title VII dealer
framework. 333 Under the rule as initially proposed, gathering the information regarding the
location of the personnel of the counterparty (or its agent), communicating it to relevant
counterparties, and keeping records of this information on a per-transaction basis could be costly.
We believe that our approach, which focuses only on the location of the personnel of the dealer
or its agent, achieves similar programmatic benefits while likely resulting in lower assessment
costs.

331

SIFMA/FSR Letter at 2-3 (stating also that the commenters “strongly believe that the
Commission has taken the correct approach in focusing on market-facing activity of sales and
trading personnel in defining the ‘arrange, negotiate, or execute’ nexus that subjects securitybased swap activity to the Commission’s regulations based on location of conduct”).

332

See Better Markets Letter at 3, 6 (urging that the Commission “strengthen its proposal by
requiring that if either non-U.S. counterparty uses U.S.-based personnel, then the transaction must
be included within U.S./Foreign Personnel Activity,” explaining that the involvement of
personnel in the United States would be consistent with Morrison and that a counterparty engaged
in dealing activity can reasonably be required to consider the location of its counterparty’s
activity, as well as its own (emphasis in original)).

333

See U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27461 (discussing commenters’ concerns related to
costs of the initially proposed approach).

127

2. Limited exception from Title VII requirements for transactions arranged,
negotiated, and executed by personnel subject to existing domestic or foreign
regulatory requirements
In response to suggestions from several commenters, 334 we reconsidered providing an
exception from the requirement to include a transaction in a person’s de minimis threshold
calculations if it is arranged, negotiated, or executed in the United States solely using personnel
of a registered broker-dealer acting in their capacity as associated persons of that broker-dealer,
of a registered security-based swap dealer, or of a U.S. branch of a non-U.S. person, pursuant to
certain conditions.
Such an exception could reduce programmatic and assessment costs associated with
engaging in customer-facing activity in connection with dealing activity in security-based swaps
in the United States, which may mitigate incentives for inefficient relocation by financial groups
that use a non-U.S. dealer to carry out their dealing activity in the United States. However,
financial groups that use a U.S. dealer may respond to the incentives created by this exception by
restructuring their security-based swap dealing business so that it is carried out by a non-U.S.
person that relies on a registered broker-dealer, a registered security-based swap dealer, or a U.S.
branch, that meets the conditions of the exception.
However, as described in more detail above, 335 such an exception could significantly
reduce the expected benefits of our Title VII dealer framework: It could create potentially
significant compliance gaps in the Title VII framework, impeding our effective enforcement of
Title VII and other federal securities laws, by permitting non-U.S. persons to continue to carry
out significant dealing activity—including dealing activity accounting for most or all of the

334

See IIB Letter at 7; HSBC Letter at 3; SIFMA/FSR Letter at 7-8.

335

See Section IV.B.3, supra.

128

interdealer market in security-based swaps on U.S. underliers—in the United States but outside
the scope of Title VII dealer requirements. 336
3. Non-inclusion of security-based swap transactions involving dealing activity
in the United States in the de minimis threshold calculations
Another alternative to the final rules would be not to require any transactions other than
those required in Exchange Act rule 3a71-3 as adopted in June 2014 to be counted toward a
person’s dealer de minimis threshold. 337
As with the alternative just discussed, this alternative could reduce programmatic and
assessment costs associated with engaging in customer-facing activity in connection with dealing
activity in security-based swaps in the United States, which may mitigate any incentives for
inefficient relocation by financial groups that use a non-U.S. dealer to carry out their dealing
activity in the United States. However, as with the preceding alternative, financial groups that
use a U.S. dealer may respond to the incentives created under the currently existing rules by
restructuring their security-based swap dealing business so that it is carried out by a non-U.S.
person, in which case none of its transactions with other non-U.S. persons would be counted
toward the de minimis thresholds.
In our view, in the absence of some form of activity-based test, the current scope of
Exchange Act rule 3a71-3 raises the full range of concerns arising from the ability of non-U.S.
persons to continue to engage in security-based swap dealing activity in the United States
without complying with Title VII dealer requirements, as described in detail above. 338
Moreover, to the extent that there are no limitations on a non-U.S. person’s ability to exclude
336

Quantifying the programmatic and assessment costs of this alternative is challenging given that
we cannot observe the propensity of non-U.S. persons to use the limited exception.

337

See SIFMA/FSR Letter at 5; IIB Letter at 5.

338

See Section IV.B.2, supra.

129

these transactions from its de minimis calculations, it is possible that a significant portion of that
activity, including potentially all interdealer activity, eventually would occur entirely outside the
scope of Title VII security-based swap dealer regulation, to the extent that financial groups
restructure their dealing business in response to the incentives created by the resulting
competitive disparities and market fragmentation. As we have already noted, this alternative
would not only reduce the current volume of security-based swap transactions by non-U.S.
persons included in such persons’ dealer de minimis threshold calculations, but financial groups
that currently use U.S. persons to carry out their dealing business in the United States may have
an incentive to migrate that business to affiliated non-U.S. persons to stay competitive with their
non-U.S. competitors. 339
The absence of an activity-based test might also be costly because of its adverse
competitive effects between U.S. and non-U.S. persons. Under current rules, the disparity in
regulatory treatment means U.S. and non-U.S. persons would face disparate regulatory costs
even if both engage in dealing activity using personnel located in a U.S. office. Given these cost
differences, non-U.S. persons or their agents transacting with other non-U.S. persons or their
agents in the United States would potentially be able to provide liquidity at lower cost than U.S.
persons because of differing regulatory treatment in other jurisdictions. As a result, non-U.S.
persons could prefer to transact with non-U.S. persons or their agents, and a substantial portion
of liquidity from non-U.S. persons might become unavailable to U.S. persons.

339

For additional discussion of the likely effects of this alternative, see the discussion in Sections
IV.B.2 and IV.B.3, supra.

130

4. Exception for transactions entered into anonymously on an exchange and
cleared
Another alternative to these amendments would be to not require transactions that are
entered into anonymously on an exchange and are cleared to be counted towards an entity’s
dealer de minimis threshold. 340 As we noted in the U.S. Activity Proposing Release, the purpose
of the exception was to avoid putting market participants in a position where they are required to
determine the treatment of the transaction under the de minimis exception in circumstances
where the information necessary to that determination is unavailable to them. 341 We do not
believe that anonymous trades raise these concerns in the context of the amendment to Exchange
Act rule 3a71-3(b), given that it does not require non-U.S. persons to look to the location or
status of their counterparty but only at that of its own personnel. We do, however, believe that
allowing such an exception would have adverse consequences for competition between U.S. and
non-U.S. dealers in the United States. If non-U.S. dealers could transact in the United States
with non-U.S. counterparties but not be required to apply those transactions to their de minimis
thresholds because their transactions were entered into anonymously on an exchange and
cleared, non-U.S. dealers would be able to continue to operate in the U.S. without being subject
to the dealer requirements of Title VII. The disparate costs generated by the unequal application
of Title VII dealer requirements may further fragment liquidity into U.S. and non-U.S. pools,
reducing the liquidity available to participants in the U.S. security-based swap market.
340

See ISDA Letter at 7-8; SIFMA/FSR Letter at 7 (stating that transactions should not be counted
towards the de minimis calculations if executed anonymously on an exchange and cleared). See
also ISDA Letter at 5 (stating that the Commission correctly noted that electronic execution “does
not eliminate the possibility of abusive or manipulative conduct,” but expressing concern that the
proposed rules did not provide sufficient guidance regarding application of this test to electronic
trading).

341

See U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27472; Cross-Border Adopting Release 79 FR
47325.

131

5. Exception for transactions cleared through foreign clearing agencies
One commenter suggested that we should not apply Title VII requirements to any
transaction between two non-U.S. persons that is cleared outside the United States. 342 As we
have noted elsewhere, however, clearing of security-based swaps reduces counterparty risk and
operational risk, but the benefits of Title VII dealer regulations extend beyond the concerns
addressed by clearing, to concerns about contagion, market fragmentation, and counterparty
protection, among others. Because clearing these transactions does not address these concerns,
whether a transaction is cleared does not appear to provide a useful basis for determining
whether a transaction should be excepted from the de minimis counting requirement. 343 It is also
important to note that such an exception would allow non-U.S. security-based swap dealers to
operate using personnel or personnel of agents located in the United States, without being subject
to Title VII dealer requirements by clearing their transactions through a foreign clearing agency.
This disparity, as already discussed, could cause security-based swap liquidity to fragment into
two pools, and reduce the amount of liquidity available to U.S. security-based swap market
participants. 344
6. Exception for transactions arranged, negotiated, or executed in the United
States merely to accommodate foreign clients’ needs when foreign markets
are closed
Another alternative would be to provide an exception for transactions arranged,
negotiated, or executed in the United States merely to accommodate foreign clients’ needs when
foreign markets are closed. For example, one commenter argued that the U.S. Activity Test
342

See ISDA Letter at 3, 8 (stating that transactions cleared outside the United States should not be
subject to Title VII, as they “are subject to regulatory oversight in the clearing jurisdiction and are
subject to reporting and recordkeeping requirements in that jurisdiction”).

343

See text accompanying note 259, supra.

344

See Section II.B, supra.

132

should not include security-based swaps in which U.S. personnel are involved only to
accommodate a non-U.S. counterparty outside of operating hours in the counterparty’s time
zone. 345 Under these amendments, a non-U.S. person is required to include in its dealer de
minimis threshold calculations transactions that it arranges, negotiates, or executes using
personnel located in the United States even if it does so for the sole purpose of accommodating a
foreign client’s needs when foreign markets are closed. 346 Commenters have argued that
requiring these transactions to be included in a dealer’s de minimis threshold calculations may
discourage non-U.S.-person dealers from providing these services to their non-U.S.-person
clients, which may increase the transaction costs and the time necessary to execute their clients’
transactions. 347 An exception for these types of transactions might improve the liquidity
available to non-U.S. security-based swap market participants by allowing non-U.S. dealers to
use personnel or personnel of their agents located in the United States to arrange, negotiate, or
execute certain transactions when foreign markets are closed.
However, the implementation of such an exception might have several adverse
consequences. For example, such an exception might create an incentive for non-U.S. person
dealers to claim such an exception for trades that, at any other time of day, they would still have
arranged, negotiated, or executed using personnel located in the United States. In addition, nonU.S. person dealers may have incentives to artificially delay or advance the timing of trades to
claim such an exception. By abusing such an exception, non-U.S. dealers might create a

345

See IIB Letter at 18-19 (arguing that the dealing activity of the U.S. personnel in the trade is
solely based on the hour of the day and thus incidental and that maintaining the proposed
approach would be difficult as it would require non-U.S. persons to hire staff to work after-hours
in the non-U.S. offices); HSBC Letter at 2.

346

See Section IV.C.2, supra.

347

See note 236, supra.

133

significant disparity in the way that they account for transactions that they arrange, negotiate, or
execute using personnel located in the United States under the dealer de minimis exception. As a
result, non-U.S. dealers might not exceed a de minimis threshold and therefore may not be
required to register with the Commission, even if these non-U.S. dealers continue with
substantial amounts of dealing activity located within the United States. The subsequent
difference in the application of dealer requirements between U.S. and non-U.S. dealers operating
in the United States may have the adverse market fragmentation and competition effects
discussed earlier. 348
VI. Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification
The Regulatory Flexibility Act (“RFA”) 349 requires Federal agencies, in promulgating
rules, to consider the impact of those rules on small entities. The Commission certified in the
U.S. Activity Proposing Release, pursuant to Section 605(b) of the RFA, 350 that the proposed
amendments to Exchange Act rule 3a71-3 and 3a71-5 would not, if adopted, have a significant
impact on a substantial number of “small entities.” 351 The Commission received no comments
on this certification.
For purposes of Commission rulemaking in connection with the RFA, a small entity
includes: (1) when used with reference to an “issuer” or a “person,” other than an investment
company, an “issuer” or “person” that, on the last day of its most recent fiscal year, had total
348

See Section V.C.3, supra.

349

5 U.S.C. 601 et seq.

350

5 U.S.C. 605(b).

351

Although Section 601(b) of the RFA defines the term “small entity,” the statute permits agencies
to formulate their own definitions. The Commission has adopted definitions for the term small
entity for the purposes of Commission rulemaking in accordance with the RFA. Those
definitions, as relevant to this rulemaking, are set forth in Rule 0-10, 17 CFR 240.0-10. See
Statement of Management on Internal Control, Exchange Act Release No. 18451 (January 28,
1982), 47 FR 5215 (February 4, 1982).

134

assets of $5 million or less; 352 or (2) a broker-dealer with total capital (net worth plus
subordinated liabilities) of less than $500,000 on the date in the prior fiscal year as of which its
audited financial statements were prepared pursuant to Rule 17a-5(d) under the Exchange Act, 353
or, if not required to file such statements, a broker-dealer with total capital (net worth plus
subordinated liabilities) of less than $500,000 on the last day of the preceding fiscal year (or in
the time that it has been in business, if shorter); and is not affiliated with any person (other than a
natural person) that is not a small business or small organization. 354 Under the standards adopted
by the Small Business Administration, small entities in the finance and insurance industry
include the following: (i) for entities in credit intermediation and related activities, 355 entities
with $550 million or less in assets or; (ii) for non-depository credit intermediation and certain
other activities, 356 entities engaged in non-depository credit intermediation and related activities,
$38.5 million or less in annual receipts; (iii) for entities in financial investments and related
activities, 357 entities with $38.5 million or less in annual receipts; (iv) for insurance carriers and

352

See 17 CFR 240.0-10(a).

353

See 17 CFR 240.17a-5(d).

354

See 17 CFR 240.0-10(c).

355

Including commercial banks, savings institutions, credit unions, firms involved in other
depository credit intermediation, credit card issuing, sales financing, consumer lending, real
estate credit, and international trade financing. 13 CFR 121.201 at Subsector 522.

356

Including firms involved in secondary market financing, all other non-depository credit
intermediation, mortgage and nonmortgage loan brokers, financial transactions processing,
reserve, and clearing house activities, and other activities related to credit intermediation. 13
CFR 121.201 at Subsector 522.

357

Including firms involved in investment banking and securities dealing, securities brokerage,
commodity contracts dealing, commodity contracts brokerage, securities and commodity
exchanges, miscellaneous intermediation, portfolio management, providing investment advice,
trust, fiduciary and custody activities, and miscellaneous financial investment activities. 13 CFR
121.201 at Subsector 523.

135

entities in related activities, 358 entities with $38.5 million or less in annual receipts, or 1,500
employees for direct property and casualty insurance carriers; and (v) for funds, trusts, and other
financial vehicles, 359 entities with $32.5 million or less in annual receipts. 360
Based on feedback from market participants and our information about the security-based swap
markets, the Commission continues to believe that the types of entities that would engage in
more than a de minimis amount of dealing activity involving security-based swaps—which
generally would be large financial institutions—would not be “small entities” for purposes of the
RFA. 361
For the foregoing reasons, the Commission certifies that the final amendments, as
adopted, would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities
for purposes of the RFA.
VII. Effective Date and Implementation
These final rules will be effective [insert date 60 days after publication in Federal
Register].
Three commenters requested that we provide market participants adequate time to
comply with any final rule that would require them to monitor the location of personnel engaged
in relevant activity with respect to security-based swap transactions. One commenter stated that
358

Including direct life insurance carriers, direct health and medical insurance carriers, direct
property and casualty insurance carriers, direct title insurance carriers, other direct insurance
(except life, health and medical) carriers, reinsurance carriers, insurance agencies and brokerages,
claims adjusting, third party administration of insurance and pension funds, and all other
insurance related activities. 13 CFR 121.201 at Subsector 524.

359

Including pension funds, health and welfare funds, other insurance funds, open-end investment
funds, trusts, estates, and agency accounts, real estate investment trusts and other financial
vehicles. 13 CFR 121.201 at Subsector 525.

360

See 13 CFR 121.201.

361

See U.S. Activity Proposing Release, 80 FR 27505-08; Cross-Border Adopting Release, 79 FR
47368.

136

we should provide a 12-month transition period and clarify that the de minimis counting would
only apply prospectively to security-based swap transactions executed after the transition
period. 362 Two commenters urged the Commission to defer the compliance date until it has
made comparability determinations for a number of jurisdictions so that non-U.S. dealers can
rely on substituted compliance. 363
In the SBS Entity Registration Adopting Release, we established a compliance date for
the final rules adopted in that release as the later of: six months after the date of publication in
the Federal Register of a final rule release adopting rules establishing capital, margin and
segregation requirements for security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap
participants (“SBS Entities”); the compliance date of final rules establishing recordkeeping and
reporting requirements for SBS Entities; the compliance date of final rules establishing business
conduct requirements under Exchange Act sections 15F(h) and 15F(k); or the compliance date
for final rules establishing a process for a registered SBS Entity to make an application to the
Commission to permit an associated person who is subject to a statutory disqualification to effect
or be involved in effecting security-based swaps on its behalf (such date referred to as the
“Registration Compliance Date”).
In addition, we noted that, for purposes of complying with the registration and other
requirements, persons engaged in dealing activity are not required to begin calculating whether
their transactions meet or exceed the thresholds established in Exchange Act rule 3a71–2 until
two months prior to the Registration Compliance Date (“SBS Entity Counting Date”).
Accordingly, a person engaged in security-based swap dealing activity will not be required to

362

See HSBC Letter at 3-4.

363

See IIB Letter at 19; SIFMA/FSR Letter at 15.

137

include in its dealer de minimis threshold calculations any transactions entered into prior to the
SBS Entity Counting Date. However, given the potential complexities of implementing the
amendments being adopted today, we believe it is appropriate to establish a compliance date
solely for Exchange Act rule 3a71-3(b)(1)(iii)(C) of the later of (a) [insert date 12 months after
publication in the Federal Register], or (b) the SBS Entity Counting Date.
Statutory Basis and Text of Final Rules
Pursuant to the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78a et seq., and particularly sections 3(a)(71),
3(b), 23(a)(1), and 30(c) thereof, and section 761(b) of the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC is
amending rules 3a71-3 and 3a71-5 under the Exchange Act.
List of Subjects in 17 CFR Part 240
Brokers, Confidential business information, Fraud, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements,
Securities.
Text of Final rules
For the reasons stated in the preamble, the SEC is amending Title 17, Chapter II of the
Code of the Federal Regulations as follows:
PART 240—GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934
1.

The authority citation for part 240 continues to read, and a sectional authority is

added in numerical order to read as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77c, 77d, 77g, 77j, 77s, 77z-2, 77z-3, 77eee, 77ggg, 77nnn, 77sss,
77ttt, 78c, 78c-3, 78c-5, 78d, 78e, 78f, 78g, 78i, 78j, 78j-1, 78k, 78k-1, 78l, 78m, 78n, 78n-1,
78o, 78o-4, 78o-10, 78p, 78q, 78q-1, 78s, 78u-5, 78w, 78x, 78dd, 78ll, 78mm, 80a–20, 80a–23,
80a–29, 80a–37, 80b–3, 80b–4, 80b–11, 7201 et seq., and 8302; 7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(E); 12 U.S.C.

138

5221(e)(3); 18 U.S.C. 1350; and Pub. L. 111-203, 939A, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010), unless otherwise
noted.
*****
Sections 240.3a71-3 and 240.3a71-5 are also issued under Pub. L. 111-203, sec. 761(b),
124 Stat. 1754 (2010), and 15 U.S.C. 78dd(c).

*****
2.

§ 240.3a71-3 is amended by adding paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(C) to read as follows:

§ 240.3a71-3 Cross-border security-based swap dealing activity.
*****
(b) * * *
(1) * * *
(iii) * * *
(C) Unless such person is a person described in paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section,
security-based swap transactions connected with such person’s security-based swap dealing
activity that are arranged, negotiated, or executed by personnel of such non-U.S. person located
in a U.S. branch or office, or by personnel of an agent of such non-U.S. person located in a U.S.
branch or office; and
*****

3.

§ 240.3a71-5 is amended by adding paragraph (c) to read as follows:

§ 240.3a71-5 Exception for cleared transactions executed on a swap execution facility.
*****
(c) The exceptions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall not apply to any
139

security-based swap transactions of a non-U.S. person or of an affiliated non-U.S. person
connected with the person’s security-based swap dealing activity that are arranged, negotiated, or
executed by personnel of such non-U.S. person located in a U.S. branch or office, or by
personnel of an agent of such non-U.S. person located in a U.S. branch or office.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

Dated: February 10, 2016

140

