UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78599 / August 17, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17399
In the Matter of

ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934, MAKING FINDINGS, AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

GREGORY GOLDSTEIN,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in
the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant
to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Gregory
Goldstein (“Respondent” or “Goldstein”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s
jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the findings contained in
paragraphs III.2 and III.4 below, and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative
Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set
forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Between at least January 2009 and December 2010, Goldstein defrauded investors in
Lenco Mobile Inc. (“Lenco”), an issuer with common stock registered pursuant to Section 12(g)
of the Exchange Act that was subject to Exchange Act reporting obligations pursuant to Section

13(a). While acting as a registered representative associated with a broker-dealer registered with
the Commission, Goldstein bought Lenco stock in his customers’ accounts in exchange for
undisclosed commissions paid to him by Lenco’s principal, Izak Zirk de Maison (f/k/a Izak Zirk
Engelbrecht) (“Engelbrecht”). Goldstein, 44 years old, resides in Stevenson Ranch, California.
Respondent participated in an offering of Lenco stock, which was a penny stock.
2.
On December 1, 2015, a final judgment was entered by consent against
Respondent, permanently enjoining him from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities
Act of 1933, and Sections 9(a) and 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder in the
civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Jason Cope et al., Civil Action
Number 14 Civ. 7575, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York.
3.
The Commission’s Amended Complaint alleged that Respondent defrauded
investors by, inter alia, buying Lenco stock in his customers’ accounts that Engelbrecht was
selling in the open market in exchange for commissions from Engelbrecht that Respondent did
not disclose to his customers.
4.
On October 6, 2015, Respondent pled guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit
securities fraud, 18 U.S.C. § 1348, and wire fraud, 18 U.S.C. § 1343, in violation of 18 U.S.C. §
1349, before the United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, in United States
v. Gregory Goldstein, Crim. Information No. 1:15-cr-328.
5.
The count of the criminal information to which Respondent pled guilty alleged,
inter alia, that Respondent conspired (i) to defraud persons in connection with the securities of an
issuer and to obtain money and property by means of false and fraudulent pretenses in
connection with the purchase and sale of securities; and (ii) to transmit and cause the
transmission by means of wire communications in interstate commerce writings, signs, signals,
and pictures for the purpose of executing a scheme and artifice to defraud investors.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest
to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Goldstein’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act,
that Respondent Goldstein be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer,
investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally
recognized statistical rating organization; and
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent Goldstein be, and hereby is
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter,
finder, consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer
for purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce
the purchase or sale of any penny stock.
2

Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

