UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 34-77870 / May 20, 2016
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission announced the temporary suspension,
pursuant to Section 12(k) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”),
of trading of the securities of NuTech Energy Resources, Inc. (“NERG”), of Gillette,
Wyoming at 9:30 a.m. EDT on May 20, 2016, and terminating at 11:59 p.m. EDT on
June 3, 2016.
The Commission temporarily suspended trading in the securities of NERG because of
questions that have been raised about the accuracy and adequacy of information in the
marketplace about the company’s operations and the company’s recent public
announcements concerning an unsolicited tender offer.
The Commission acknowledges FINRA’s assistance in this matter.
The Commission cautions brokers, dealers, shareholders, and prospective purchasers that
they should carefully consider the foregoing information along with all other currently
available information and any information subsequently issued by the company.
Further, brokers and dealers should be alert to the fact that, pursuant to Rule 15c2-11
under the Exchange Act, at the termination of the trading suspension, no quotation may
be entered unless and until they have strictly complied with all of the provisions of the
rule. If any broker or dealer has any questions as to whether or not he has complied with
the rule, he should not enter any quotation but immediately contact the staff in the
Division of Trading and Markets, Office of Interpretation and Guidance, at (202) 5515777. If any broker or dealer is uncertain as to what is required by Rule 15c2-11, he
should refrain from entering quotations relating to NERG’s securities until such time as
he has familiarized himself with the rule and is certain that all of its provisions have been
met. If any broker or dealer enters any quotation that is in violation of the rule, the
Commission will consider the need for prompt enforcement action.
If any broker, dealer or other person has any information that may relate to this matter,
they should immediately contact Elisha L. Frank, Assistant Regional Director, Miami
Regional Office of the Securities and Exchange Commission at (305) 982-6392.

