UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77948 / May 31, 2016
WHISTLEBLOWER AWARD PROCEEDING
File No. 2016-12
In the Matter of the Claim for Award
in connection with
SEC v. CVS Caremark Corp., 14-cv-0177 (D.R.I.)
Notice of Covered Action 2014-48

ORDER DETERMINING WHISTLEBLOWER AWARD CLAIM
On September 30, 2015, the Claims Review Staff (“CRS”) issued a Preliminary
Determination recommending a denial of a claim for a whistleblower award submitted by
(“Claimant”) in connection with Notice of Covered Action 2014-48 (“Covered
Claimant
Action”). The CRS found that Claimant did not qualify for an award because the information
that Claimant provided did not lead to the successful enforcement of the Covered Action. See
Section 21F(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”); Exchange Act
Rules 21F-3(a)(3) & 21F-4(c).1 Claimant subsequently filed a timely written response contesting
the Preliminary Determination.
After careful consideration of the administrative record, including Claimant’s written
response, we deny Claimant’s award application. We find that the Claimant is not entitled to an
award because the record conclusively demonstrates that Claimant’s information was not used in
connection with the Covered Action. Claimant’s tip was designated for “no further action”
(“NFA”) by the Office of Market Intelligence (“OMI”), which is the office within the Division of
1

As relevant here, information leads to the success of a covered action if it: (1) causes the
Commission to (i) commence an examination, (ii) open or reopen an investigation, or (iii) inquire into
different conduct as part of a current Commission examination or investigation under Rule 21F-4(c)(1) of
the Exchange Act; or (2) significantly contributes to the success of a Commission judicial or
administrative enforcement action under Rule 21F-4(c)(2) of the Exchange Act.

1

Enforcement that is responsible for undertaking an initial review of such tips to determine
whether the information provided warrants further follow-up. As a result of the NFA
designation, Claimant’s tip was not forwarded to investigative staff either to begin a new
investigation, to inquire into different conduct, or to use in connection with any ongoing
investigation. Moreover, Enforcement staff responsible for the underlying investigation that
resulted in the Covered Action confirmed that they did not know Claimant, had no
communications with Claimant, and did not receive any information from Claimant in
connection with the Covered Action. And in Claimant’s written response contesting the
Preliminary Determination, Claimant has neither offered any evidence to the contrary nor even
argued that Claimant’s information led to the success of the Covered Action.2 We thus find that
the record firmly demonstrates that Claimant’s information did not lead to the success of the
Covered Action within the meaning of Section 21F(b)(1) of the Exchange Act and Rules 21F3(a)(3) and 21F-4(c) thereunder.
Accordingly, it is ORDERED that Claimant’s whistleblower award claim be, and hereby
is, denied.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

2

In Claimant’s written response to the Preliminary Determination, Claimant contends that by not
forwarding Claimant’s tip to the Enforcement staff on the investigation, OMI erroneously and wrongfully
denied Claimant the opportunity to be eligible for an award. This argument is irrelevant, as it has no
bearing on Claimant’s ability to obtain an award; even if Claimant’s contention were true, it would still
remain the case that Claimant’s information did not lead to the Covered Action. That said, Claimant’s
information did not specifically and credibly allege a violation of the federal securities laws. Indeed,
other than identifying the same target company, Claimant’s tip bears no factual or legal nexus to the
charges brought by the Commission in the Covered Action. These facts indicate that OMI appropriately
determined that the tip did not warrant the allocation of additional staff time and effort.

2

