UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77968 / June 1, 2016

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17269
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
CRAIG MEDOFF,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Craig Medoff
(“Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these
proceedings and the findings contained in Section III.2. below, which are admitted, Respondent
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions
(“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Medoff, age 56, is a resident of Boston, Massachusetts. In 2009, Medoff
provided a variety of consulting services to BioChemics, Inc. (“BioChemics”), a privately-held
corporation with a principal place of business in Danvers, Massachusetts. Medoff also served, for
several months in 2009, as the interim Director of Finance for BioChemics. During 2009, Medoff
also solicited investments in BioChemics from a number of potential investors. In a prior case
brought by the Commission in 1993, which alleged that Medoff sold a company’s unregistered
stock to the public through the use of materially false and misleading documents, a final judgment
was entered against Medoff that permanently enjoined him from violating the antifraud provisions
of the federal securities laws. In January 1995, the Commission issued an Order that permanently
barred Medoff from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, investment company
or municipal securities dealer. In 1995, Medoff also pled guilty to two counts of conspiracy to
commit securities fraud in a criminal case.
2.
On May 25, 2016, a final judgment was entered by consent against Medoff,
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933
(“Securities Act”) and Sections 10(b), 15(a) and 15(b)(6)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5
thereunder, in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. BioChemics, Inc., et
al., Civil Action Number 12-12324-MLW, in the United States District Court for the District of
Massachusetts (complaint filed December 14, 2012).
3.
The Commission’s December 14, 2012 complaint alleged that in 2009
Medoff and others made false and misleading statements to investors while selling BioChemics
securities, including statements that misled investors about the value of BioChemics securities.
Among other things, the complaint alleged that Medoff and others made misrepresentations to
investors about the progress and results of clinical trials for BioChemics’ products and misled
investors about valuations of BioChemics that were purportedly prepared by reputable independent
investment banks. The complaint also alleged that Medoff induced or attempted to induce the
purchase of securities without being registered as a broker in accordance with Section 15(b) of the
Exchange Act.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Medoff’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act,
that Respondent Medoff be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer,
investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, or transfer agent.
2

Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

