UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77994 / June 3, 2016
Admin. Proc. File No. 3-17254
In the Matter of the Application of
MEYERS ASSOCIATES, L.P.,
and
BRUCE MEYERS

ORDER DENYING STAY

For Review of Action Taken by
FINRA
Motion filed:

May 20, 2016

Last brief received:

May 27, 2016

Meyers Associates, L.P. (the “Firm”) and Bruce Meyers (“Meyers” and, with the Firm,
“Applicants”) move to stay a FINRA decision denying Applicants’ request to permit Meyers to
continue associating with the Firm despite his being subject to a “statutory disqualification.”1 As
discussed below, Applicants have not met their burden of showing that a stay is warranted and,
therefore, their motion is denied.2

1

FINRA’s By-Laws prohibit a person from associating with a member if that person becomes
subject to “statutory disqualification” as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. See
infra notes 4–5. FINRA may grant relief from that ineligibility to associate if it determines that
approval is consistent with the public interest and the protection of investors. See FINRA ByLaws, Art. III, § 3(d).
2

Applicants have not yet filed an appeal, but have indicated their intent to do so. FINRA
argues that, without having filed an appeal, Applicants’ request for a stay is procedurally
defective. See 17 C.F.R. § 201.401(d)(1) (stating that a motion for a stay of a self-regulatory
action “may be made by any person aggrieved thereby at the time an application for review is
filed in accordance with Rule 420 or thereafter”). We do not address this issue in light of our
decision to deny the stay on other grounds.

2

I. Background
A.

FINRA notified Applicants that Meyers is statutorily disqualified.

On March 24 2015, Applicants settled charges brought by Connecticut’s Department of
Banking (the “Department”) that Meyers failed reasonably to supervise various aspects of the
Firm, and that he materially assisted, and willfully aided and abetted, the Firm’s failure to
provide documents requested by the Department in a complete and timely manner. As part of
the settlement, Meyers was ordered to “withdraw his registration as a broker-dealer agent of [the
Firm] under the [Connecticut Uniform Securities] Act and [to] not reapply for registration as an
agent of a broker-dealer under the Act for three years” (the “Connecticut Order”).3 The
Connecticut Order also directed the Firm to ensure that, as long as Meyers remained affiliated
with the Firm in an unregistered capacity in Connecticut, he would refrain from directly
supervising or training any broker-dealer agents with respect to securities business transacted in
or from Connecticut and receiving any compensation in connection with the offer, sale, or
purchase of securities effected in or from Connecticut.
On April 23, 2015, FINRA’s Department of Member Regulation (“Member Regulation”)
notified the Firm that as a result of the Connecticut Order Meyers was statutorily disqualified
under Exchange Act Section 3(a)(39),4 and was subject to disqualification from association with
a member firm under FINRA’s By-Laws.5 After receiving this notice, Applicants twice sought
from FINRA a determination that the Connecticut Order did not constitute a statutory
disqualification under the Exchange Act because the order did not “bar” Meyers. The
Department denied both requests.
Applicants subsequently filed a complaint in Connecticut state court seeking an order
requiring the Department to amend the Connecticut Order to state that it should not be construed
as a “statutory bar.” The Department filed a motion to dismiss the complaint, which was
granted.

3

In the Matter of Meyers Assocs., L.P., No. CFNR-14-8132-S (Mar. 24, 2015), available at
http://www.ct.gov/dob/cwp/view.asp?a=2246&q=563012.
4

15 U.S.C. § 78c(a)(39) (incorporating Exchange Act Section 15(b)(4)(H), 15 U.S.C.
§ 78o(b)(4)(H), into the definition of “statutory disqualification” to include persons that are
subject to any final order of a state securities commission or state authority that supervises or
examines banks that “bars such person from association with an entity regulated by such
commission . . . or from engaging in the business of securities”).
5

FINRA By-Laws, Art. III, § 4 (stating that a person is subject to “disqualification” from
association with a member firm if such person is subject to “statutory disqualification” as defined
in Exchange Act Section 3(a)(39)).

3

B.

FINRA denied Applicants’ membership continuation application.

On June 4, 2015, Applicants submitted a MC-400 Membership Continuation Application
to FINRA, for permission for Meyers to continue to associate with the Firm as a general
securities representative, a general securities principal, and the Firm’s chief executive officer.
Meyers continued to work for the Firm while the application was pending.
After a hearing was scheduled to consider their application, Meyers and the Firm filed a
brief with the subcommittee of FINRA’s Statutory Disqualification Committee (the “Hearing
Panel”), arguing that Meyers was not required to go through an eligibility proceeding because
the Connecticut Order did not subject Meyers to statutory disqualification. The Hearing Panel
postponed the hearing, but subsequently determined that the hearing should go forward because
Meyers “appeared to be” statutorily disqualified because of the Connecticut Order.
Applicants informed the Hearing Panel that they intended to argue at the hearing that the
Hearing Panel’s determination was flawed and that they intended to present telephonic testimony
from Nathan Pereira (Applicants’ counsel in the proceeding related to the Connecticut Order)
about the Connecticut proceeding. The Hearing Panel responded that it (i) would not permit
Applicants to reargue whether the Connecticut Order subjected Meyers to statutory
disqualification; (ii) would hear testimony from Pereira if it was not immaterial, irrelevant, or
cumulative of other testimony presented at the hearing; and (iii) expected the parties to focus at
the hearing on the underlying merits of the application and why it should be approved or denied.
The Hearing Panel conducted a hearing on March 22, 2016. Meyers, his proposed
supervisor, and a compliance consultant hired by the Firm testified. The Hearing Panel declined
to hear testimony from Pereira, however, after Applicants submitted a proffer that Pereira would
testify about the parties’ conversations during the Connecticut proceeding, about Pereira’s
understanding of the Connecticut Order, about the collateral consequences of that order, and
about Pereira’s understanding that the Department never indicated to him its intent to bar
Meyers.
After the hearing, the Hearing Panel submitted its written recommendation on
Applicants’ application to FINRA’s Statutory Disqualification Committee, which in turn
presented a written recommendation to FINRA’s National Adjudicatory Council (the “NAC”).
On May 9, 2016, the NAC issued a thirty-four page decision denying Applicants’ application.6
The NAC concluded that the Connecticut Order subjected Meyers to statutory disqualification
under the Exchange Act because the Order prohibited him from engaging in any securities
business in Connecticut. The NAC also found that the Hearing Panel properly excluded
Pereira’s testimony because Applicants should have submitted any evidence about why the
Connecticut Order did not subject Meyers to statutory disqualification (such as an affidavit from
Pereira) in their pre-hearing briefing, but had chosen not to do so. The NAC further found that
the Hearing Panel properly excluded Pereira’s testimony because Meyers was also directly
6

Unlike a disciplinary hearing, the process for considering a membership continuance
application does not involve a hearing panel decision that is then appealable to the NAC. The
NAC issued the sole written decision on Applicants’ application following the hearing.

4

involved in the negotiations with the Department and had testified during the hearing about those
negotiations and the parties’ intent with respect to the Connecticut Order.
Turning to the merits of the application, the NAC determined that the Firm had not
demonstrated that Meyers’s continued association with the Firm was in the public interest and
concluded that such association presented an unreasonable risk of harm to the markets and
investors. The NAC based its denial on Applicants’ regulatory and disciplinary histories, “the
serious nature of the misconduct underlying the recent Connecticut Order,” and concerns about
the Firm’s proposed supervision for Meyers.
II. Analysis
The Commission considers the following factors in determining whether to grant a stay:
(i) whether there is a strong likelihood that the moving party will succeed on the merits of its
appeal; (ii) whether the moving party will suffer irreparable harm without a stay; (iii) whether
any person will suffer substantial harm as a result of a stay; and (iv) whether a stay is likely to
serve the public interest.7 The moving party has the burden of establishing that a stay is
warranted.8 We conclude that Applicants failed to establish that a stay is warranted.
A.

Applicants have not demonstrated a strong likelihood of success on the merits of an
appeal.

Exchange Act Section 19(f) directs the Commission to dismiss an appeal from FINRA
action if it finds (i) that the specific grounds on which FINRA based its action exist in fact; (ii)
that the action was in accordance with FINRA’s rules; and (iii) that the relevant rules are, and
were applied in a manner, consistent with the purposes of the Exchange Act.9 Applicants argue
that they are likely to succeed under this standard because the grounds for their alleged statutory
disqualification do not exist in fact and that, by preventing Pereira’s testimony, FINRA neither
followed its rules nor applied them in a manner consistent with the Exchange Act. Any analysis
of the likelihood of Applicants’ succeeding on appeal is necessarily preliminary.10 At this stage

7

Harry W. Hunt, Exchange Act Release No. 68755, 2013 WL 325333, at *3 (Jan. 29, 2013)
(citing Intelispan, Inc., Exchange Act Release No. 42738, 2000 WL 511471, at *2 (May 1,
2000)); see also Cuomo v. NRC, 772 F.2d 972, 974 (D.C. Cir. 1985); Rules of Practice,
Exchange Act Release No. 35833, 60 Fed. Reg. 32,738, 32,772 (June 23, 1995) (prior comment
to Rule of Practice 401).
8

Hunt, 2013 WL 325333, at *3 (citing Millenia Hope, Inc., Exchange Act Release No. 42739,
2000 WL 511439, at *1 (May 1, 2000)).
9
10

15 U.S.C. § 78s(f).

See Hunt, 2013 WL 325333, at *4 (noting that “[f]inal resolution must await the
Commission’s determination of the merits of [movant’s] appeal”).

5

of the proceeding, however, Applicants have not demonstrated a strong likelihood of succeeding
on the merits.11
Applicants have not shown that FINRA erred in determining that Meyers was statutorily
disqualified. Applicants assert that the relevant provision governing statutory disqualification—
Exchange Act Section 15(b)(4)(H)(i)—expressly requires that one be subject to a “bar” by a state
securities commission and that Meyers’s voluntary withdrawal from registration and his
agreement not to reapply for association for three years is not a bar. A bar, according to
Applicants, “is a very serious sanction and in the absence of specific language referring to a bar,
Meyers’[s] sanction should not be read more broadly than to what he agreed.”
However, two Commission adopting releases state that “the statutory language [found in
Section 15(b)(4)(H)(i)] is clear: bars are orders issued by one of the specified regulators that
have the effect of barring a person from association with certain regulated entities [or] from
engaging in the business of securities” and that any order “that has one of those effects is a bar,
regardless of whether it uses the term ‘bar.’”12 Applicants argue that these Commission
statements concern an issue (when a state order disqualifies someone from being able to rely on
certain registration exemptions) other than the issue here (when a state order statutorily
disqualifies someone for purposes of FINRA eligibility). The distinction is one without a
difference. The definition of a bar does not depend on the result of the disqualification, i.e.
whether the bar results in registration disqualification or FINRA ineligibility. We have
repeatedly found that the statutory disqualification provisions across the securities laws may be
interpreted by reference to the meaning of Exchange Act 15(b)(4)(H).13 The Connecticut Order

11

In their motion, Applicants do not contest the NAC’s finding that Meyers’s continued
association with the Firm was inconsistent with the public interest and the protection of
investors.
12

Disqualification of Felons and Other Bad Actors from Rule 506 Offerings, Securities Act
Release No. 9414, 2013 WL 3817311, at *21 (July 10, 2013) (adopting rules amendments to
Securities Act Rules 501 and 506 of Regulation D, 17 C.F.R. §§ 230.501, .506); see also
Crowdfunding, Exchange Act Release No. 70741, 2013 WL 5770346, at *133 (Oct. 23, 2013)
(stating, in the context of proposed crowdfunding rules, that, “[i]n our view, bars are orders
issued by one of the specified regulators that have the effect of barring a person from . . .
engaging in the business of securities” and that “[w]e believe that any such order that has one of
those effects would be a bar, regardless of whether it uses the term ‘bar’”).
13

See Crowdfunding, 2013 WL 5770346, at *132 (observing that the disqualification rule at
issue, Section 302(d)(2)(B) of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, was “substantively
identical to Exchange Act Section 15(b)(4)(H)”); Disqualification of Felons and Other Bad
Actors, 2013 WL 3817311, at *19 (observing that the disqualification rule at issue, Section
926(2)(A) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, was “essentially
identical to Section 15(b)(4)(H) of the Exchange Act”); cf. Nicholas Rowe, Exchange Act
Release No. 75982, 2015 WL 5608532, at *2 (Sept. 24, 2013) (finding that a state order’s
(continued . . .)

6

is a bar because it prohibits Meyers from engaging in any securities business in Connecticut that
requires registration, and, therefore, triggers a statutory disqualification.
Separately, Applicants have not shown a strong likelihood of prevailing on their claim
that the NAC erred in preventing Applicants from introducing Pereira’s testimony at the hearing.
Applicants argue that Pereira would have supported their claim that Meyers was not statutorily
disqualified by testifying that neither Applicants nor the Department of Banking intended for (or
were on notice that) the sanctions imposed on Meyers would constitute a bar, or the functional
equivalent of a bar, for purposes of being subject to a statutory disqualification. In response,
FINRA argues that this evidence was properly excluded as irrelevant. Applicants cite to no
precedent that supports their position that a party’s intent when entering into an order determines
whether that order subjects the party to a statutory disqualification under the Exchange Act.14
Therefore, even if Pereira would have testified about what Applicants claim, Applicants have not
established that this would lead to a different result in evaluating whether the Connecticut Order
is a bar and triggers disqualification.15
B.

Applicants have not sufficiently demonstrated that they or others will suffer
irreparable harm without a stay.

Applicants have also failed to make a sufficient showing that they or others will suffer
irreparable harm without a stay. Applicants claim that, if Meyers is not allowed to associate with
the Firm during their appeal, “the Firm would necessarily close, leaving thousands of customers
without access to their accounts and putting many people out of work and causing them to lose

(. . . continued)
securities licensure bar satisfied the requirements of Advisers Act Section 203(e)(9), which, like
Section 15(b)(4)(H), refers to a bar from “engaging in the business of securities . . . . activities”).
14

Applicants rely on a NAC decision that analyzed a different disqualifying provision under
the Exchange Act. See Continued Ass’n of X as Gen. Sec. Representative, NAC Decision No.
SD04014, 2004 WL 5319879 (N.A.S.D.R. 2004). The NAC’s finding in Continued Ass’n of X
arguably supports FINRA’s assertion that Pereira’s testimony was not relevant. In that case, the
NAC did not base its conclusions on the parties’ intent at the time they entered into the
settlement (as Applicants argue should have been done here). Rather, the NAC found that the
CFTC’s order was not a statutorily disqualifying event because of the order’s express terms
(including that “the CFTC expressly permitted X to be registered as an [associated person]”) and
the parties’ subsequent conduct (including that the CFTC never subjected X to disqualification
proceedings and allowed X to remain continually registered with the CFTC). Id. at *4.
15

Applicants suggest that the NAC violated its rules because it cited to a FINRA rule
governing disciplinary hearings when it excluded Pereira’s testimony as irrelevant during the
eligibility proceedings, but an improper citation does not negate the fact that FINRA’s bylaws
and rules expressly contemplate the introduction of only relevant evidence at eligibility hearings.

7

their health insurance.” And granting a stay, Applicants argue, would “afford the Firm and all
affected persons an opportunity to attempt a smooth transition to a new management, should that
be required.”
The Commission and courts have consistently held, however, that “[m]ere injuries,
however substantial, in terms of money, time, and energy necessarily expended in the absence of
a stay, are not enough” to constitute irreparable harm.16 The Commission has generally refused
to grant stays based on applicants’ claims that FINRA’s decision will negatively affect, or even
close, a business.17
The alleged harm to Applicants’ customers and employees is outweighed by the risk of
allowing Meyers’s continued participation in the securities industry. FINRA found that Meyers
has been party to six final regulatory actions (three of which also named the Firm) and at least 16
customer complaints. Among other things, Meyers was suspended from acting in any principal
or supervisory capacity for four months in a settled proceeding in which he was found to have
failed to supervise Firm personnel to ensure that they completely and timely responded to
requests for information; he was censured and fined in a settled proceeding in which he was
found to have failed to enforce the Firm’s written supervisory procedures; and he was censured
and fined in another settled proceeding in which he was found to have failed to reasonably
16

William Timpinaro, Exchange Act Release No. 29927, 1991 WL 288326, at *3 (Nov. 12,
1991) (quoting Va. Petroleum Jobbers Ass’n v. FPC, 259 F.2d 921, 925 (D.C. Cir. 1958)); see
also Michael A. Rooms, Admin. Proc. File No. 3-11621, 2004 SEC LEXIS 3158, at *5 (Nov. 14,
2004) (holding that applicant’s claim that “the bar imposed on him ha[d] resulted in severe
financial loss and damages to his reputation . . . d[id] not rise to the level of irreparable injury”);
Robert J. Prager, Exchange Act Release No. 50634, 2004 WL 2480717, at *1 (Nov. 4, 2004)
(holding that “the fact that an applicant may suffer financial detriment does not rise to the level
of irreparable injury warranting issuance of a stay”).
17

See, e.g., William Scholander, Exchange Act Release No. 74437, 2015 WL 904234, at *7
(Mar. 4, 2015) (finding that applicants had not shown a likelihood that they would suffer
irreparable harm where they claimed that it was “highly likely” that a branch office would have
to close if a stay were not granted); Al Rizek, Exchange Act Release No. 41972, 1999 WL
955890, at *2 (Oct. 1, 1999) (finding that, despite applicant’s claim that he would be forced to
close his securities firm without a stay, “[a]ny harm that he may suffer from the denial of his stay
request is outweighed by the danger he poses to customers and potential customers”), denying
stay request, Rizek v. SEC, No. 99-2114 (1st Cir. Oct. 29, 1999); Stratton Oakmont, Inc.,
Exchange Act Release No. 38026, 1996 WL 707982, at *2–3 (Dec. 6, 1996) (finding that,
“[a]lthough the sanctions here will have a substantial impact on Applicants, . . . any harm that
Applicants may incur from the denial of the their stay requests is outweighed by the danger to
the investing public if the effect of the bar and expulsion is delayed”); Rooney, Pace Inc.,
Exchange Act Release No. 23763, 1986 WL 626057, at *5 (Oct. 31, 1986) (finding suspension to
be in the public interest despite mitigation claim that suspension would “depriv[e] registrant of
the services of its key executive officer”).

8

supervise a statutorily disqualified individual. An extended hearing panel also recently barred
Meyers in all principal and supervisory capacities and fined him $75,000 after finding, among
other things, that he sent misleading and unbalanced advertising materials to prospective
investors and was responsible for supervisory failures.18 As the NAC detailed in its decision, the
Firm also has been the subject of 17 final regulatory and disciplinary actions since 2000 and one
customer complaint.19 This “extensive regulatory and disciplinary history,” FINRA reasonably
concluded, “strongly suggests that any future in the securities industry will result in further noncompliance.”
Applicants nevertheless assert that the investing public will not suffer substantial harm as
a result of a stay because Meyers’s activities at the Firm “have already been greatly curtailed.”
As examples of this, Applicants claim that Meyers’s retail customer accounts “are largely
inactive,” that he has been placed on heightened supervision, that his daily activities “are focused
on the business aspects of the Firm as opposed to engaging in securities transactions,” and that
he is not performing any supervisory responsibilities. These unsupported assertions, even if true,
do not outweigh the significant concerns about Applicants’ extensive disciplinary history. To the
contrary, the record at this stage of the proceeding suggests that the Firm’s customers may be
better served if Meyers does not participate in the securities industry while Applicants appeal the
NAC’s decision.20
C.

Applicants have not demonstrated that a stay is likely to serve the public interest.

Applicants argue that the repercussions of FINRA’s finding that the Connecticut Order
amounts to a statutory disqualification under the Exchange Act are “so severe that it is
imperative that the SEC directly address this issue.” This supposed need for the Commission to
opine on FINRA’s decision, however, is separate from the considerations relevant to whether to
grant a stay. Here, as explained above, Applicants have not demonstrated a strong likelihood of
overturning FINRA’s decision on appeal; they have not demonstrated that they will suffer
18

Meyers has appealed that decision, and the sanctions are not currently in effect pending
review. See BrokerCheck Report, Bruce Meyers, CRD No. 1045447, at 29–33 (generated
June 1, 2016), http://brokercheck.finra.org/Report/Download/45376853.
19

As the NAC’s decision details, the Firm has paid approximately $390,000 in monetary
sanctions and has been fined an additional $700,000 in connection with these matters. Eight of
these regulatory matters involved supervisory failures, and three involved the Firm’s failures to
produce documents to regulators or claimants in FINRA arbitrations. Other violations included
failing to comply with FINRA’s reporting obligations, employing unregistered personnel, and
failing to make disclosures to customers. The Hearing Panel found that recent Commission and
FINRA examinations also found a pattern of deficiencies and weaknesses at the Firm.
20

The Dratel Group, Inc., Exchange Act Release No. 72293, 2014 WL 2448896, at *5 (June 2,
2014) (denying stay request where “the record before us suggests that applicants’ customers may
be better served if applicants are not participating in the securities industry pending their
appeal”), denying stay request, Dratel v. SEC, No. 14-1888 (2d Cir. July 10, 2014).

9

irreparable harm without a stay; and Applicants’ claimed harm to their customers and employees
is outweighed by concerns about Applicants’ ability to comply with the securities laws and the
threat Meyers’s continued participation in the securities industry poses to investors. For these
reasons, Applicants have not carried their burden of showing that a stay is in the public interest.
Accordingly, IT IS ORDERED that Applicants’ motion to stay the effect of FINRA’s
denial of their membership continuation application is denied.
For the Commission, by the Office of the General Counsel, pursuant to delegated
authority.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

