UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77459 / March 28, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17182
ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-DESIST
PROCEEDINGS, PURSUANT TO SECTION
21C OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934, MAKING FINDINGS, AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A
CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER

In the Matter of
LINDA YOO
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that ceaseand-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to 21C of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Linda Yoo (“Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over her and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondent consents
to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Pursuant to Section 21C of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a
Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds1 that
Summary
1.
Respondent violated Section 15(a)(1) of the Exchange Act by acting as an
unregistered broker-dealer in connection with her representation of clients who were seeking U.S.
residency through the Immigrant Investor Program. Respondent, an immigration attorney,
recommended that her clients participate in the Immigration Investor Program by investing in
securities offered through an EB-5 Regional Center and helped effect the purchases. In addition to
receiving legal fees from her clients, Respondent received a commission from the Regional Center
for each investment she facilitated.
Respondent
2.
Linda Yoo, age 51, is a resident of Bellevue, Washington. She is a licensed
attorney specializing in immigration. During the relevant time period, she was a partner of a law
firm located in Bellevue, Washington.
Background
3.
The United States Congress created the Immigrant Investor Program, also known as
“EB-5,” in 1990 to stimulate the U.S. economy through job creation and capital investment by
foreign investors. The Program offers EB-5 visas to individuals who invest $1 million in a new
commercial enterprise that creates or preserves at least 10 full-time jobs for qualifying U.S.
workers (or $500,000 in an enterprise located in a rural area or an area of high unemployment). A
certain number of EB-5 visas are set aside for investors in approved Regional Centers. A Regional
Center is defined as “any economic unit, public or private, which is involved with the promotion of
economic growth, including increased export sales, improved regional productivity, job creation,
and increased domestic capital investment.” 8 C.F.R. § 204.6(e) (2015).
4.
Typical Regional Center investment vehicles are offered as limited partnership
interests. The partnership interests are securities, usually offered pursuant to one or more
exemptions from the registration requirements of the U.S. securities laws. The Regional Centers
are often managed by a person or entity which acts as a general partner of the limited partnership.
The Regional Centers, the investment vehicles, and the managers are collectively referred to herein
as “EB-5 Investment Offerers.”
5.
Various EB-5 Investment Offerers paid commissions to anyone who successfully
sold limited partnership interests to new investors.
1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.
2

Respondent Received Commissions for Her Clients’ EB-5 Investments
6.
From at least January 2009 through January 2014, Respondent received
commissions from one or more EB-5 Investment Offerers totaling $205,000. On one or more
occasions, the commission was paid to a foreign bank account identified by the Respondent despite
the fact that the Respondent was U.S.-based.
7.
Respondent performed activities necessary to effectuate the transactions in EB-5
securities, including recommending one or more EB-5 Investment Offerers to her clients; acting as
a liaison between the EB-5 Investment Offerers and the investors; and facilitating the transfer
and/or documentation of investment funds to the EB-5 Investment Offerers. Respondent received
transaction-based commissions for her services from the EB-5 Investment Offerers. While some
of Respondent’s activities overlapped with legal services, for which she received fees, Respondent
was paid transaction-based compensation for the activities which effectuated the investor’s
transactions in EB-5 securities.
8.
As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent violated Section 15(a)(1) of
the Exchange Act which makes it unlawful for any broker or dealer which is either a person other
than a natural person or a natural person not associated with a broker or dealer to make use of the
mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce “to effect any transactions in, or to
induce or attempt to induce the purchase or sale of, any security” unless such broker or dealer is
registered in accordance with Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions
agreed to in Respondent Linda Yoo’s Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Respondent shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and
any future violations of Section 15(a)(1) of the Exchange Act.
B.
Respondent shall pay disgorgement of $205,000, prejudgment interest of $23,169,
and civil penalties of $50,000, to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the
general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). Payment
shall be made in the following installments: (1) 50% of the total amount within ten (10) days of
the entry of this Order, (2) 20% of the total amount within ninety (90) days of the entry of this
Order, (3) 15% of the total amount within one-hundred-eighty (180) days of the entry of this Order,
and (4) 15% of the total amount within two-hundred-seventy (270) days of the entry of this Order.
If any payment is not made by the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire
outstanding balance of disgorgement, prejudgment interest, and civil penalties, plus any additional
interest accrued pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600 and pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717, shall be
3

due and payable immediately, without further application. Payment must be made in one of the
following ways:
(1)

Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will
provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

(2)

Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through the
SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States
postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and
hand-delivered or mailed to:
Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
Linda Yoo as Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of
the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Stephen L. Cohen, Associate Director,
Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., NE, Washington, DC
20549-5553.
V.
It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by
Respondent, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other
amounts due by Respondent under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree
or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by
Respondent of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set
forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19).

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

4

