SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
(Release No. 34-77112; File No. SR-OCC-2015-02)
February 11, 2016
Self-Regulatory Organizations; The Options Clearing Corporation; Order Setting Aside Action
by Delegated Authority, Approving Proposed Rule Change Concerning The Options Clearing
Corporation’s Capital Plan and Denying Motions
I.

Introduction
The Options Clearing Corporation (“OCC”) is a clearing agency registered with the

Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) and is the only clearing agency for
standardized U.S. options listed on U.S. national securities exchanges. Today, listed options are
traded on twelve national securities exchanges: five national securities exchanges that are equal
owners of OCC (“Stockholder Exchanges”)1 and seven national securities exchanges that have
no ownership stake in OCC (“Non-Stockholder Exchanges”).2 OCC also serves other markets,
including those trading commodity futures, commodity options, and security futures,3 the
securities lending market and the OTC options market. In each of these markets, OCC provides
clearing members4 with central counterparty (“CCP”) clearing services and performs critical

1

The Stockholder Exchanges are: Chicago Board Options Exchange, Incorporated;
International Securities Exchange, LLC; NASDAQ OMX PHLX, LLC; NYSE MKT
LLC; and NYSE Arca, Inc. See Exchange Act Release No. 74136 (January 26, 2015), 80
FR 5171 (January 30, 2015) (SR-OCC-2015-02) (“Notice”).

2

Under OCC’s By-Laws, exchanges other than Stockholder Exchanges may participate in
OCC’s services subject to meeting certain qualifications. See OCC By-Laws, Article
VIIB (Non-Equity Exchanges).

3

OCC also is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a derivatives
clearing organization regulated to provide clearing services for four futures exchanges.

4

OCC has over 100 members which include large domestic and international
broker-dealers and futures commission merchants. See OCC’s 2014 Annual Report
(available at: http://www.optionsclearing.com/components/docs/about/annual1

functions in the clearance and settlement process.5 OCC’s services increase the efficiency and
speed of options trading and settlement as well as reduce members’ operational expenses and
counterparty credit risk.
OCC’s role as the CCP for all listed options contracts in the U.S. makes it an integral part
of the national system for clearance and settlement, and its failure or service disruption could
have cumulative negative effects on the U.S. options and futures markets, financial institutions,
and the broader financial system. As such, OCC was designated by the Financial Stability
Oversight Council as a systemically important financial market utility (“SIFMU”) in 2012.6
In the context of a number of developments in the financial markets, OCC’s Board of
Directors (“Board”) decided that OCC was significantly undercapitalized, and, in response,
proposed and implemented an expedited plan to substantially increase OCC’s capitalization (the
“Capital Plan”), and, given OCC’s critical clearing functions and its systemic importance, the

reports/occ_2014_annual_report.pdf), and OCC’s website, “What is OCC?” (available at:
https://www.optionsclearing.com/about/corporate-information/what-is-occ.jsp).
5

For instance, OCC provides CCP services for OTC options, and for two securities
lending market structures, OCC’s OTC Stock Loan Program and AQS, an automated
marketplace for securities lending and borrowing operated by Automated Equity Finance
Markets, Inc. OCC currently participates in cross-margin programs with the CME and
ICE and offers an internal cross-margin program for products regulated by the SEC and
CFTC. See OCC’s website, OCC Fact Sheet (available at:
http://www.optionsclearing.com/components/docs/about/occ-factsheet.pdf), “What is
OCC?,” (available at: http://www.optionsclearing.com/about/corporate-information/whatis-occ.jsp.) and OCC’s website, “Cross Margin Programs” (available at:
http://www.optionsclearing.com/clearing/clearing-services/cross-margin.jsp.).

6

See Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”) 2012 Annual Report, Appendix A,
(available at http://www.treasury.gov/initiatives/fsoc/Documents/2012%20Appendix%20
A%20Designation%20of%20Systemically%20Important%20Market%20Utilities.pdf).

2

Commission agrees that having OCC increase its capitalization is appropriate and in the public
interest.7
Procedural Background
OCC filed the Capital Plan as an advance notice, SR-OCC-2014-813, under Section
806(e)(1) of the Payment, Clearing, and Settlement Supervision Act of 2010 (“Payment,
Clearing and Settlement Supervision Act”)8 on December 29, 2014. OCC filed the proposed rule
change implementing the Capital Plan, SR-OCC-2015-02, with the Commission pursuant to
Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act” or “Act”)9 and Rule
19b-4 thereunder10 on January 14, 2015. The proposed rule change was published for comment
in the Federal Register on January 30, 2015.11 The Commission received seventeen comment
letters on OCC’s proposal from twelve commenters, including OCC.12 The Commission issued

7

According to OCC, as of December 31, 2013, at the time it developed the Capital Plan,
OCC had total shareholders’ equity of about $25 million, which represents approximately
6 weeks of operating expenses. Based on internal operational risk scenarios and loss
modeling, OCC quantified its operational risk at $226 million and pension risk at $21
million. According to OCC, as of August 31, 2015, in the absence of the $150 million
capital contribution made pursuant to the Capital Plan, OCC’s adjusted shareholder
equity would be about $149 million and OCC’s total capital resources would be less than
$150 million. See Notice at 5172-73; OCC’s Written Statement in Support of Affirming
March 6, 2015 Order Approving Capital Plan (October 7, 2015) (“OCC Support
Statement”).

8

12 U.S.C. 5465(e)(1). On February 26, 2015, the Commission issued a notice of no
objection to the advance notice filing. See Exchange Act Release No. 74387 (February
26, 2015), 80 FR 12215 (March 6, 2015) (SR-OCC-2014-813).

9

15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1).

10

17 CFR 240.19b-4.

11

See Notice.

12

See Letter from Eric Swanson, General Counsel & Secretary, BATS Global Markets, Inc.
(“BATS”) (February 19, 2015) (“BATS Letter I”); Letter from Tony McCormick, Chief
3

an order on March 6, 2015, through delegated authority, approving the proposal (“Delegated
Order”).13
The Delegated Order describes the elements of the proposed Capital Plan, OCC’s
financial condition, and the basis for OCC’s projected capital requirement. The Delegated Order
Executive Officer, BOX Options Exchange, (“BOX”) (February 19, 2015) (“BOX Letter
I”); Letter from Howard L. Kramer on behalf of Belvedere Trading, CTC Trading Group,
IMC Financial Markets, Integral Derivatives, Susquehanna Investment Group, and
Wolverine Trading (February 20, 2015) (“MM Letter”); Letter from Ellen Greene,
Managing Director, Financial Services Operations, SIFMA (February 20, 2015)
(“SIFMA Letter”); Letter from James E. Brown, General Counsel, OCC (February 23,
2015) (responding to BATS Letter and BOX Letter) (“OCC Letter I”); Letter from James
E. Brown, General Counsel, OCC (February 23, 2015) (responding to MM Letter) (“OCC
Letter II”); Letter from Barbara J. Comly, Executive Vice President, General Counsel &
Corporate Secretary, Miami International Securities Exchange, LLC, (“MIAX”)
(February 24, 2015) (“MIAX Letter I”); Letter from James E. Brown, General Counsel,
OCC (February 24, 2015) (responding to SIFMA Letter) (“OCC Letter III”); Letter from
John A. McCarthy, General Counsel, KCG Holdings, Inc., (“KCG”) (February 26, 2015)
(“KCG Letter I”); Letter from Eric Swanson, General Counsel and Secretary, BATS
(February 27, 2015) (“BATS Letter II”); Letter from John A. McCarthy, General
Counsel, KCG (February 27, 2015) (“KCG Letter II”); Letter from Richard J. McDonald,
Chief Regulatory Counsel, Susquehanna International Group, LLP, (“SIG”) (February
27, 2015) (“SIG Letter I”); Letter from Barbara J. Comly, Executive Vice President,
General Counsel & Corporate Secretary, MIAX (March 1, 2015) (“MIAX Letter II”);
Letter from James E. Brown, General Counsel, OCC (March 2, 2015) (“OCC Letter IV”);
Letter from Eric Swanson, General Counsel and Secretary, BATS (March 3, 2015)
(“BATS Letter III”); and Letter from Tony McCormick, Chief Executive Officer, BOX
(March 3, 2015) (“BOX Letter II”); Letter from Brian Sopinsky, General Counsel, SIG
(March 4, 2015) (“SIG Letter II”). Since the proposal was filed as both an advance
notice and proposed rule change, the Commission considered all comments received on
the proposal, regardless of whether the comments were submitted to the proposed rule
change or advance notice file. See comments on the advance notice (File No. SR-OCC2014-813), http://www.sec.gov/comments/sr-occ-2014-813/occ2014813.shtml and
comments on the proposed rule change (File No. SR-OCC-2015-02),
http://www.sec.gov/comments/sr-occ-2015-02/occ201502.shtml. In its evaluation of the
proposed rule change, the Commission assessed whether the proposal was consistent with
the requirements of the Exchange Act and the applicable rules and regulations
thereunder.
13

Exchange Act Release No. 74452 (March 6, 2015), 80 FR 13058 (March 12,
2015) (SR-OCC-2015-02).

4

also discusses and responds to the comments received on the proposed Capital Plan. The
Delegated Order makes findings that the Capital Plan is consistent with Exchange Act Sections
17A(b)(3)(A), 17A(b)(3)(F), 17A(b)(3)(D) and 17A(b)(3)(I).14
In response to the Delegated Order, BATS, BOX, KCG, MIAX, and SIG (collectively
“Petitioners”) filed notices of intention to petition for review of the Delegated Order, the first of
which was filed on March 12, 2015.15 The Commission received five petitions for review of the
Delegated Order (collectively “Petitions for Review” or “Petitions”) from the Petitioners
between March 16 and March 20, 2015.16 The filing of the first notice of intention to petition for
review on March 12, 2015 automatically stayed the Delegated Order pursuant to Rule 431(e) of
the Commission’s Rules of Practice.17 OCC filed a motion to lift the automatic stay on April 2,
2015.18 The Petitioners filed responses opposing lifting the stay, and OCC filed a reply brief
supporting its motion to lift the stay.19
14

See 15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(A); 15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(F); 15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(D); 15
U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(I).

15

See Letter from Barbara J. Comly, Executive Vice President, General Counsel &
Corporate Secretary, MIAX (March 12, 2015); Letter from Lisa J. Fall, President, BOX
(March 13, 2015); Letter from Eric Swanson, General Counsel and Secretary, BATS
(March 13, 2015); Letter from Brian Sopinsky, General Counsel, SIG (March 13, 2015);
Letter from John A. McCarthy, General Counsel, KCG (March 13, 2015).

16

See BATS Petition for Review (March 16, 2015) (“BATS Petition”); BOX Petition for
Review (March 20, 2015) (“BOX Petition”); KCG Petition for Review (March 20, 2015)
(“KCG Petition”); MIAX Petition for Review (March 20, 2015) (“MIAX Petition”);
SIG Petition for Review (March 20, 2015) (“SIG Petition”).

17

17 CFR 201.431(e).

18

OCC Motion to Lift Stay (April 2, 2015) (“OCC Stay Motion”).

19

BATS, BOX, MIAX Response to OCC’s Motion to Lift the Stay (April 8, 2015) (“BATS
Response”); KCG Response to OCC’s Motion to Lift the Stay (April 9, 2015) (“KCG
Response”); SIG Opposition to OCC’s Motion to Lift the Stay (April 9, 2015) (“SIG
5

The Commission issued two orders on September 10, 2015. The first order granted the
Petitions for Review and scheduled the filing of statements either in support of or against the
Delegated Order (“Review Order”).20 The second order lifted the automatic stay (“Stay
Order”).21 Shortly thereafter, on September 15, 2015, Petitioners filed a motion to reinstitute the
automatic stay.22 OCC filed an opposition to the Reinstitution Motion on September 22, 2015,23
and Petitioners filed a memorandum in further support of the Reinstitution Motion on September
25, 2015.24 On December 22, 2015, in response to OCC’s announcement of the declaration of
refunds, dividends, and fee reduction pursuant to the Capital Plan, a commenter filed a letter
further advocating for reinstitution of the automatic stay.25 On February 5, 2016, Petitioners

Response”); OCC’s Reply Brief in Support of its Motion to Lift the Stay (April 13, 2015)
(“OCC Stay Brief”).
20

Exchange Act Release No. 75885 (September 10, 2015), 80 FR 55700
(September 16, 2015).

21

Exchange Act Release No. 75886 (September 10, 2015), 80 FR 55668
(September 16, 2015).

22

BATS, BOX, KCG, MIAX, SIG Motion to Reinstitute Automatic Stay (September 15,
2015) (“Reinstitution Motion”).

23

OCC Brief in Opposition to Motion to Reinstitute Automatic Stay (September 22, 2015)
(“OCC Reinstitution Response”).

24

Memorandum in Further Support of Motion to Reinstitute Automatic Stay (on behalf of
BATS, BOX, MIAX, and SIG) (September 25, 2015) (“Memo in Further Support of
Reinstitution”).

25

Letter from Joseph C. Lombard, Murphy & McGonigle, on behalf of SIG (and together
with the Petitioners) (December 22, 2015) (“SIG Letter III”). On February 2, 2016, SIG
requested a telephone call to inquire about the status of the Reinstitution Motion. See Email from Stephen J. Crimmins, on behalf of SIG, to Brent J. Fields on February 2, 2016
(“SIG E-mail”).

6

filed a motion to expedite the Commission’s ruling on the pending Reinstitution Motion.26 The
Reinstitution Motion, Expedition Motion, various other motions, and the comments thereto are
discussed in Section IV below.
Summary of Findings
The Commission’s Rules of Practice set forth procedures for reviewing actions made
pursuant to delegated authority. Pursuant to Rule 431(a) of the Rules of Practice, the
Commission may affirm, reverse, modify, set aside or remand for further proceedings, in whole
or in part, the action made pursuant to delegated authority.27 Here, the Commission is setting
aside the Delegated Order and conducting a de novo review of, and giving careful consideration
to, the entire record, which includes: OCC’s proposal, all comments received in response to the
Notice, the Petitions for Review, comments received in response to the Review Order, all
motions filed, and OCC’s responses thereto.
In conducting its de novo review, the Commission looks to Section 19(b)(2)(C) of the
Exchange Act,28 which directs the Commission to approve a proposed rule change of a selfregulatory organization if the Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with
the requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to such
self-regulatory organization. After carefully considering the entire record, for the reasons
discussed throughout this order, the Commission finds that OCC’s proposed rule change is
consistent with the Exchange Act requirements, including Exchange Act Sections 17A(b)(3)(A),
26

See BATS, BOX, KCG, MIAX, SIG Motion to Expedite the Commission’s Ruling on the
Pending Motion to Reinstitute the Automatic Stay (February 5, 2016) (“Expedition
Motion”).

27

17 CFR 201.431(a).

28

15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2)(C).

7

17A(b)(3)(D), 17A(b)(3)(F), and 17A(b)(3)(I)29, and the rules and regulations thereunder, that
are applicable to OCC.30 Accordingly, the Commission is approving the proposed rule change
implementing the Capital Plan. In approving this proposed rule change, the Commission also
has considered the impact of the Capital Plan on efficiency, competition, and capital formation
under Section 3(f) of the Exchange Act.31
II.

Description of the Proposal32
OCC proposes to amend its rules to implement the Capital Plan.33 According to OCC,

the Capital Plan is designed to support OCC’s functions and continuity of its operations as a
SIFMU. As proposed by OCC, the Capital Plan is designed to address business, operational, and
pension risks. It is not designed to address counterparty risk, on-balance sheet credit risk, or
market risk, all of which are addressed through margin, clearing fund deposits, and other means.
OCC represents that it reviewed a range of risk scenarios and modeled potential losses
arising from business, operational, and pension risks, and based on those results, it was
29

15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(A); 15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(F); 15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(D); 15
U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(I).

30

As the Commission notes in the Notice, OCC states this proposal’s purpose is (in part) to
facilitate compliance with proposed Commission rules on standards for covered clearing
agencies (Exchange Act Release No. 71699 (March 12, 2014), 79 FR 29508 (May 22,
2014) (S7-03-14)) and address Principle 15 of the Principles for Financial Market
Infrastructures (“PFMIs”) (international standards for financial market intermediaries).
Because the proposed Commission rules are pending, the Commission has evaluated this
proposed rule change under the Exchange Act and the rules currently in force thereunder.

31

See 15 U.S.C. 78c(f).

32

See Notice at 5171-78, unless otherwise noted.

33

To implement the Capital Plan, OCC’s proposed rule change included: (i) establishing
policies on fees, refunds, and dividends (described further below); (ii) amending its ByLaws; (iii) amending its Restated Certificate of Incorporation; and (iv) amending its
Stockholders Agreement.

8

appropriate to significantly increase its capital. After evaluating alternate sources of capital
funding, including increasing fees or suspending refunds to clearing members, the Board
approved the proposed Capital Plan.34
Under the Capital Plan, OCC annually will determine a target capital requirement
(“Target Capital Requirement”). To meet the initial Target Capital Requirement, the
Stockholder Exchanges provided capital to OCC (“Capital Contribution”) and entered into an
agreement (“Replenishment Capital Agreement”) to provide additional replenishment capital
(“Replenishment Capital”) under certain circumstances. In return, the Stockholder Exchanges
are eligible to receive dividends from OCC (“Dividend Policy”). Additionally, OCC will set its
fees annually to cover its estimated operating expenses plus a “Business Risk Buffer” (“Fee
Policy”). Finally, clearing members will be eligible to receive refunds annually, under certain
circumstances (“Refund Policy”).
A.

Target Capital Requirement

The Target Capital Requirement consists of: (i) a “Baseline Capital Requirement” plus
(ii) a “Target Capital Buffer.” The Baseline Capital Requirement is equal to the greatest of: (i)
six months budgeted operating expenses for the following year; (ii) the maximum cost of the
recovery scenario from OCC’s recovery and wind-down plan; or (iii) the cost to OCC of winding
down operations as set forth in its recovery and wind-down plan. The Target Capital Buffer is
linked to plausible loss scenarios from business, operational, and pension risks and is designed to
provide a significant capital cushion to offset potential business losses.35
34

See OCC Support Statement.

35

OCC has determined that its current appropriate “Target Capital Requirement” is $247
million, reflecting a “Baseline Capital Requirement” of $117 million, which is equal to
six-month projected operating expenses, plus a “Target Capital Buffer” of $130 million.
9

B.

Capital Contribution and Replenishment Capital Agreement

Under the Capital Plan, OCC requires the Stockholder Exchanges to provide a Capital
Contribution pursuant to their Class B Common Stock on a pro rata basis. At the time of the
January 14, 2015 filing, OCC proposed the Capital Contribution to be $150 million, and the
Stockholder Exchanges have since contributed that amount to OCC pursuant to the Capital
Plan.36
The Capital Contribution is supported by a Replenishment Capital Agreement, under
which the Stockholder Exchanges have committed to provide Replenishment Capital if OCC’s
total shareholders’ equity falls below a certain threshold. Specifically, if OCC’s shareholders’
equity falls below a “Hard Trigger” as described below, the Stockholder Exchanges are obligated
to provide a committed amount of Replenishment Capital on a pro rata basis. The provision of
Replenishment Capital is capped at the excess of: (i) the lesser of either the Baseline Capital
Requirement at the time of relevant funding or $200 million,37 minus (ii) outstanding
Replenishment Capital (collectively, the “Cap”).38 In exchange for any Replenishment Capital
made under the Replenishment Capital Agreement, the OCC will issue the Stockholder
Exchanges a new class of OCC common stock (“Class C Common Stock”). The Capital Plan
36

See OCC Support Statement.

37

According to OCC, the $200 million takes into account projected growth in the Baseline
Capital Requirement for the foreseeable future and OCC estimated that the Baseline
Capital Requirement would not exceed $200 million before 2022.

38

For example, if the Baseline Capital Requirement is greater than $200 million, then the
Replenishment Capital that could be accessed by OCC would be capped at $200 million
minus any outstanding Replenishment Capital. Therefore, if there is no outstanding
Replenishment Capital, OCC could access up to $200 million. If on the other hand, the
Baseline Capital Requirement is $100 million, then OCC could access Replenishment
Capital up to $100 million minus any Replenishment Capital outstanding.

10

also has a “Soft Trigger,” which would alert OCC that it should re-evaluate the sufficiency of its
capitalization.
As mentioned above, OCC has identified two triggers concerning the shareholders’
equity that would require action by OCC: (i) a “Soft Trigger,” a warning sign that OCC’s
capitalization has fallen to a level that requires action to prevent it from falling to unacceptable
levels, and (ii) a “Hard Trigger,” a sign that corrective action must be taken in the form of a
mandatory Replenishment Capital call.
The Hard Trigger is reached when OCC’s shareholders’ equity falls below 125% of the
Baseline Capital Requirement.39 Upon such occurrence, the Board will determine whether to
attempt a recovery or a wind-down of OCC’s operations,40 or a sale or similar transaction,
subject in each case to any necessary stockholder consent.41 OCC believes that the Hard Trigger
would occur only as the result of a significant, unexpected event.
The Soft Trigger is reached when OCC’s shareholders’ equity falls below the sum of: (i)
the Baseline Capital Requirement and (ii) 75% of the Target Capital Buffer.42 Upon such
39

For 2015, the Hard Trigger would be reached if OCC’s shareholders’ equity fell below
$146.25 million.

40

If the Board decides to wind-down OCC’s operations, then OCC will access
Replenishment Capital in the amount the Board determines is sufficient to fund the winddown, subject to the Cap. If the Board decides to attempt a recovery of OCC’s capital
and business, then OCC will access Replenishment Capital in the amount sufficient to
return shareholders’ equity to $20 million above the Hard Trigger, subject to the Cap.

41

Article IV of OCC’s Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation requires
the approval of a majority of the issued and outstanding shares of each series of Class B
Common Stock, voting separately as a series, to authorize or consent to the sale, lease, or
exchange of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation, or to
authorize or consent to the dissolution of the corporation.

42

For 2015, the Soft Trigger would be reached if OCC’s shareholders’ equity fell below
$227.5 million.
11

occurrence, OCC’s senior management and the Board will evaluate options to restore the
shareholders’ equity to the Target Capital Requirement, including, but not limited to, through
increasing fees and/or decreasing expenses.
In addition, the Board will review the Replenishment Capital Agreement on an annual
basis. While the Replenishment Capital amount will increase as the Baseline Capital
Requirement increases, if the Baseline Capital Requirement approaches or exceeds $200 million,
the Board will review and revise the Capital Plan, as needed, to address potential future needs for
Replenishment Capital higher than the $200 million cap. OCC also represents that its
management will monitor OCC’s shareholders’ equity to identify additional triggers or reduced
capital levels that may require action.
C.

Fee Policy, Refund Policy, and Dividend Policy

Under the Capital Plan, OCC will also implement a Fee Policy, Refund Policy, and
Dividend Policy designed to maintain OCC’s shareholders’ equity above the Baseline Capital
Requirement. Changes to the Fee Policy, Refund Policy, and Dividend Policy will require the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of the directors then in office and unanimous approval by the
holders of OCC’s outstanding Class B Common Stock.43 Any such changes also will be subject
to the filing requirements of Section 19(b) of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations
thereunder.
1.

Fee Policy

Under the Fee Policy, OCC will set fees at a level that will cover OCC’s estimated
operating expenses plus a “Business Risk Buffer.” According to OCC, the purpose of the
43

The Stockholder Exchanges are the sole holders of the Class B common stock and have
each made Capital Contributions to OCC in respect of their equal ownership of Class B
common stock, which entitles them to receive dividends, if declared.

12

Business Risk Buffer is to ensure that OCC accumulates sufficient funds to cover unexpected
fluctuations in operating expenses, business capital needs, and regulatory capital requirements.
Specifically, in setting fees each year, OCC will calculate an annual revenue target based on a
forward twelve months expense forecast divided by the difference between one and the Business
Risk Buffer of 25% (i.e., OCC will divide the expense forecast by 0.75). OCC believes that
establishing the Business Risk Buffer at 25% will allow OCC to manage unexpected fluctuations
in expenses or revenue.44
OCC notes that the 25% Business Risk Buffer will be lower than OCC’s historical 10year average buffer of 31%. OCC represents that the lower buffer will permit it to charge lower
fees to market participants, and thus become less reliant on refunds to clearing members to return
any excess fees paid.45 In addition, by capitalizing OCC through shareholders’ equity (i.e., the
Capital Contribution), OCC represents that it is positioned to charge lower fees that are more
closely tied to its projected operating expenses, rather than annually generating a larger surplus

44

For example, fees could generate less revenue than expected if trading volume decreases.
According to OCC, because OCC’s clearing fee schedules typically reflect different rates
for different categories of transactions, fee projections will include projections of relative
volume in each category. Therefore, the clearing fee schedule will be set to achieve the
annual revenue target through a blended or average rate per contract, multiplied by total
projected contract volume.

45

OCC stated that the Capital Plan would allow OCC to refund approximately $40 million
from 2014 fees to clearing members and to reduce fees in an amount to be determined by
the Board. See Notice at 5174. OCC issued a press release announcing the declaration of
a refund, dividend, and fee reduction, pursuant to the Capital Plan on December 17, 2015.
See OCC Press Release, “OCC Declares Clearing Member Refund and Dividend for
2015 and Reduction of Fees under Approved Capital Plan.” (available at:
http://www.optionsclearing.com/about/newsroom/releases/2015/12_17.jsp (“OCC Press
Release”).

13

to address business, operational, and pension risks.46 OCC states that the Business Risk Buffer
will remain at 25% as long as OCC’s shareholders’ equity remains above the Target Capital
Requirement. OCC represents that it will review its fee schedule on a quarterly basis to manage
revenues as close to the 25% Business Risk Buffer as possible, and, if the fee schedule needs to
be changed to achieve the 25% Business Risk Buffer, OCC would file a proposed rule change
with the Commission.
2.

Refund Policy

Under the Refund Policy, except at a time when Replenishment Capital is outstanding,
OCC will declare a refund to clearing members in December of each year using the formula set
out in the Refund Policy. Specifically, the refund will equal 50% of the excess of: (i) pre-tax
income for the year in which the refund is declared over (ii) the sum of the following: (x) the
amount of pre-tax income after the refund necessary to produce after-tax income for such year
sufficient to maintain shareholders’ equity at the Target Capital Requirement for the following
year, and (y) the amount of pre-tax income after the refund necessary to fund any additional
reserves or additional surplus not already included in the Target Capital Requirement.
The Refund Policy states that OCC will declare refunds, if any, in December of each
year, and such refunds would be paid in the following year after OCC issues its audited financial
statements, provided that: (i) the payment does not result in a total shareholders’ equity falling

46

OCC has announced it intended to lower fees by about 19% pursuant to the Capital Plan.
See OCC Press Release.

14

below the Target Capital Requirement and (ii) the payment is otherwise permitted by Delaware
law, federal laws, and regulations.47
OCC will not make refund payments while Replenishment Capital is outstanding and will
resume refunds after the Replenishment Capital is repaid in full and the Target Capital
Requirement is restored. However, OCC will not resume paying refunds and will recalculate
how refunds are made if, for more than 24 months: (i) Replenishment Capital remains
outstanding or (ii) the Target Capital Requirement is not restored.
3.

Dividend Policy

Under the Dividend Policy, OCC will pay dividends to Stockholder Exchanges as
consideration for their Capital Contribution and commitment to provide Replenishment Capital
under the Replenishment Capital Agreement. OCC will declare dividends, if any, in December
of each year, and such dividends would be paid in the following year after OCC issues its audited
financial statements, provided that: (i) the payment does not result in total shareholders’ equity
falling below the Target Capital Requirement and (ii) the payment is otherwise permitted by
Delaware law, federal laws, and regulations.
Pursuant to the Dividend Policy, except at a time when Replenishment Capital is
outstanding, OCC will declare a dividend on its Class B Common Stock in December of each
year in aggregate equal to the excess of: (i) after-tax income for the year, after application of the
Refund Policy48 over (ii) the sum of: (A) the amount required to be retained in order to maintain
total shareholders’ equity at the Target Capital Requirement for the following year, plus (B) the
47

OCC announced for 2016, that it will pay a previously declared 2014 refund of $33.3
million, a 2015 refund of $39 million, and special refund of $72 million. See OCC Press
Release.

48

If the Refund Policy has been eliminated, the refunds shall be deemed to be $0.

15

amount of any additional reserves or additional surplus not already included in the Target Capital
Requirement.49
Similar to the Refund Policy, if Replenishment Capital is outstanding, OCC will not pay
dividends. OCC will resume dividends after the Replenishment Capital is repaid in full and the
Target Capital Requirement is restored through the accumulation of retained earnings. However,
OCC will not resume paying dividends and will recalculate how dividends are made if, for more
than 24 months: (i) Replenishment Capital remains outstanding or (ii) the Target Capital
Requirement is not restored. Moreover, the formulas for determining the refunds and dividends
treat refunds as tax-deductible, and dividends are not tax-deductible. In the event that refunds
are not tax-deductible, OCC represents that it will amend the Refund Policy and Dividend Policy
to restore the relative economic benefits between the recipients of the refunds and the
Stockholder Exchanges to what the Capital Plan currently provides.
III.

Summary of the Comments and Discussion
A.

Statutory Standards

Exchange Act Section 19(b)(2)(C) directs the Commission to approve a proposed rule
change of a self-regulatory organization if it finds the change is consistent with the requirements
of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to such organization.50
In particular, the Commission addresses the following provisions of the Exchange Act in its
review of this proposed rule change:

49

OCC issued a press release announcing the declaration of an approximate $17 million
dividend for 2015 pursuant to the Capital Plan. See OCC Press Release.

50

15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2)(C).

16



Section 17A(b)(3)(F) of the Exchange Act requires, in part, that the rules of a registered
clearing agency be designed to protect investors and the public interest.51



Section 17A(b)(3)(I) of the Exchange Act requires, in part, that the rules of a registered
clearing agency do not impose any burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in
furtherance of the purposes of the Exchange Act.52



Section 17A(b)(3)(D) of the Exchange Act requires, in part, that the rules of a registered
clearing agency provide for the equitable allocation of reasonable dues, fees, and other
charges among its participants.53



Section 17A(b)(3)(A) of the Exchange Act requires, in part, that a registered clearing
agency be so organized and have the capacity to be able to facilitate the prompt and
accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions and to safeguard securities
and funds in its custody or control or for which it is responsible.54



Section 3(f) of the Exchange Act requires, in part, that whenever pursuant to the
Exchange Act the Commission is engaged in the review of a rule of a self-regulatory
organization, and is required to consider or determine whether an action is necessary or
appropriate in the public interest, the Commission must also consider, in addition to the
protection of investors, whether the action will promote efficiency, competition, and
capital formation.55

51

15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(F).

52

15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(I).

53

15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(D).

54

15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(I).

55

15 U.S.C. 78c(f).
17

B.

Comments Received and Commission Response

The discussion below summarizes the comments received regarding OCC’s proposed
Capital Plan and provides OCC’s responses and the Commission’s evaluation of the proposal in
accordance with the applicable Exchange Act requirements.
1.

Investor Protection and Public Interest in Exchange Act Section
17A(b)(3)(F) and Burden on Competition in Exchange Act Section
17A(b)(3)(I)

Commenters argue that the Capital Plan is inconsistent with Exchange Act Sections
17A(b)(3)(F) and 17A(b)(3)(I),56 which require that the rules of a registered clearing agency, i.e.,
OCC, are designed to protect investors and the public interest and do not impose any burden on
competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. Broadly,
commenters argue that the Capital Plan is contrary to the protection of investors and the public
interest, and imposes unnecessary and inappropriate burdens on competition, because: (i) the
Dividend Policy would unfairly subsidize Stockholder Exchanges at the expense of the NonStockholder Exchanges, (ii) the Capital Plan would raise transaction costs by increasing fees and
reducing refunds to pay dividends to the Stockholder Exchanges, and (iii) the Dividend Policy
would pay Stockholder Exchanges an excessive rate of return. Commenters also assert that the
Capital Plan imposes an inappropriate burden on competition, inconsistent with Exchange Act
Section 17A(b)(3)(I),57 because OCC’s Target Capital Requirement is inflated, or in the
alternative, OCC is already sufficiently capitalized, thus rendering the Capital Plan unnecessary.
Finally, commenters argue that the Capital Plan imposes an inappropriate burden on competition
because OCC did not consider less costly alternative capital raising initiatives.
56

15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(F) and (I).

57

15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(I).

18

The Commission discusses each of these comments and OCC’s responses below. After
considering the entire record, and for reasons discussed below, the Commission finds that the
Capital Plan is consistent with Exchange Act Sections 17A(b)(3)(F) and 17A(b)(3)(I).58
(i)

Commenters Argue that the Dividend Policy Fails to Protect Investors
and the Public Interest and Imposes a Burden on Competition not
Necessary or Appropriate in Furtherance of the Act.

Commenters argue that the Dividend Policy is inconsistent with Sections 17A(b)(3)(F)
and 17A(b)(3)(I) of the Exchange Act,59 because it enables the Stockholder Exchanges to
monetize OCC’s clearing monopoly and changes OCC from a low-cost public utility to a forprofit enterprise by paying dividends to the Stockholder Exchanges.60 Commenters also assert
that because only Stockholder Exchanges are eligible to receive dividend payments, and any
such dividend payments are tantamount to a subsidy from OCC, the Dividend Policy harms the
competitive balance between Stockholder Exchanges and Non-Stockholder Exchanges.61 In the
commenters’ view, Stockholder Exchanges will be able to use the dividend “subsidy” to lower
their options exchange operating costs and thus compete more effectively to provide trading and

58

15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(F) and (I).

59

Id.

60

SIG Statement in Opposition to the Order Approving OCC’s Capital Plan (October 7,
2015) (“SIG Opposition Statement”). This commenter also argues that the Dividend
Policy fosters rewards, i.e., larger dividends paid to Stockholder Exchanges, thereby
incenting the Board to approve inflated operating costs and larger budgets, which
increases transaction costs. The Commission discusses this aspect of the comment
regarding cost increases below in Section B(1)(ii).

61

See, e.g., BATS Letter I and Letter II; BOX Letter I; MIAX Letter II; BATS, BOX, and
MIAX Statement in Opposition to the Action Made by Delegated Authority (October 7,
2015) (“BATS Opposition Statement”); KCG Statement in Opposition to the Order
(October 7, 2015) (“KCG Opposition Statement”).

19

execution services than the Non-Stockholder Exchanges, which would not receive any such
subsidy.62
OCC responds that the Dividend Policy is an integral part of the Capital Plan and is
necessary to protect OCC against business, operational, and pension risks. OCC refutes the
statement that the Capital Plan would turn OCC into a for-profit enterprise for the sole benefit of
the Stockholder Exchanges.63 OCC states the purpose of the Capital Plan is to ensure sufficient
capital to cover business, operational, and pension risks, and further argues that the plan as a
whole works to limit returns to the Stockholder Exchanges to an appropriate level and lower
clearing fees for all market participants.64 OCC also counters that the Capital Plan does not
unfairly advantage Stockholder Exchanges as the obligations of the Stockholder and NonStockholder Exchanges are not identical. OCC maintains that commenters do not appropriately
consider that the Stockholder Exchanges incur financial obligations under the Capital Plan by
providing Capital Contributions and committing to provide Replenishment Capital, and therefore
face the substantial risk of losing both contributions.65 OCC further states that the competitive
balance between and among the options exchanges, including between the Stockholder
Exchanges and the Non-Stockholder Exchanges, is far more complex than portrayed by the
commenters, and that any dividend payments received by Stockholder Exchanges under the
Dividend Policy would not have a meaningful impact on competition.66 Moreover, OCC argues
62

Id.

63

OCC Support Statement; OCC Letter II; OCC Stay Brief.

64

OCC Letter I; OCC Support Statement.

65

See OCC Support Statement.

66

Id.

20

the commenters artificially inflate the so-called “subsidy” effect by making erroneous
assumptions that any dividend received would be devoted exclusively to subsidizing a segment
of the products listed by the Stockholder Exchanges (and offsetting the cost of those listings).67
OCC also states that the commenters’ analysis does not appropriately address the other ways the
Stockholder Exchanges and Non-Stockholder Exchanges compete.68
(ii)

Commenters Argue that the Capital Plan Raises Transaction Costs and
Imposes a Burden on Competition Not Necessary or Appropriate in
Furtherance of the Act

Commenters also argue that the Capital Plan is inconsistent with Sections 17A(b)(3)(F)
and 17A(b)(3)(I) of the Exchange Act69, because it raises transaction costs.70 Commenters allege
that the Dividend Policy creates incentives for OCC to increase its operating expenses, and in
turn, charge higher clearing fees because higher clearing fees will lead to higher dividend
payments.71 Commenters state that these higher fees harm the Non-Stockholder Exchanges and
are particularly detrimental to the public interest and investor protection because clearing
members and customers collectively pay 95% of OCC operating expenses through clearing

67

See id.

68

Id. OCC notes that both Stockholder and Non-Stockholder Exchanges have pricing
power from many sources, and all of these sources have more impact than the dividend
on these exchanges’ ability to compete. See id. at 19-20 (arguing that pricing power
derives from many factors, and stating that “the revenue per contract variation among
exchanges and among products, which [commenters] themselves note, suggests that the
Stockholder Exchanges are not competing on the basis of price alone”).

69

15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(F) and (I).

70

See MM Letter; KCG Petition; SIG Petition; SIG Opposition Statement.

71

Id.

21

fees.72 Commenters argue that the Refund Policy does not protect investors or promote the
public interest, because it reduces the percentage of excess net income refunded to clearing
members from 100% to 50%. Commenters state that this reduction in refunds will lead to
increased transaction costs through wider quoted spreads.73 Finally, commenters argue that the
increased transaction costs impose a burden on competition not necessary or appropriate.
OCC refutes commenters’ assertion that the Dividend Policy creates incentives for OCC
to increase its operating expenses or its fees as a means to pay higher dividends to Stockholder
Exchanges.74 OCC explains that the operation of the Capital Plan, in its totality, places limits on
these purported incentives. OCC notes that commenters ignore the fact that higher operating
expenses lead to a higher Target Capital Requirement, which would require additional capital
contributions to be withheld from funds that would otherwise be used to pay dividends and
refunds and therefore, would have the effect of reducing the rate of return to the Stockholder
Exchanges.75 OCC further explains that the Capital Plan incorporates a lower Business Risk
Buffer, i.e., 25%, than the historical average buffer of 31%. Because this buffer is used to set the
clearing fee schedules, it will provide members with a lower fee structure.76 In addition, because
the Capital Plan uses shareholders’ equity as capital to offset potential business, operational, and
pension risks, OCC states that it would become less dependent on clearing fees to manage these

72

See, e.g., KCG Opposition Statement; SIG Opposition Statement.

73

See SIG Petition; SIG Opposition Statement.

74

OCC Letter II; OCC Stay Brief.

75

Id.

76

OCC Support Statement.

22

risks.77 OCC also states that commenters’ concerns regarding future fee increases are
speculative.78
(iii)

Commenters Argue that the Dividend Rate Under the Capital Plan is
Excessive and Inconsistent with the Protection of Investors and the
Public Interest and Imposes a Burden on Competition not Necessary or
Appropriate in Furtherance of the Act

Commenters assert that the rate of return the Stockholder Exchanges will receive for
providing the Capital Contribution and committing to provide Replenishment Capital under the
Dividend Policy is excessive, and is therefore inconsistent with Sections 17A(b)(3)(F) and
17A(b)(3)(I) of the Exchange Act.79 Specifically, the commenters argue that OCC is a
monopoly, and as such, its risk of capital impairment is low, such that the imputed rate of return
to the Stockholder Exchanges is excessive.80
OCC responds that its status as the sole registered clearing agency in the options market
does not mean that the Capital Contribution by the Stockholder Exchanges is a risk-free
investment.81 As noted above, the Capital Plan is designed to support OCC’s operations in the
event of substantial losses from potential business, operational, and pension risks – these risks

77

Id.

78

Id.

79

15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(F) and (I). Commenters separately describe the dividend rate as
unconscionable, exorbitant, and above market rate. Commenters estimate that the
dividend payments will result in a rate of return for the Stockholder Exchanges’
investment of additional capital of upwards of 20% to 30% but state that the true amount
is not known to them. See BATS Letter I; BATS Letter II; MIAX Letter I; KCG
Opposition Statement; SIG Opposition Statement.

80

See BATS Letter II; Peak6 Capital Management Statement in Opposition to the Order
(October 7, 2015) (“Peak6 Opposition Statement”); SIG Opposition Statement.

81

See OCC Support Statement.

23

are not mitigated by OCC’s status as the sole clearing agency in the listed options space.82 OCC
also responds that the potential rate of return is not excessive and notes that the Capital Plan,
including the Dividend Policy, was developed after an extensive and detailed deliberative
process.83 OCC adds that the Board relied on advice received from external advisers to help
ascertain whether the potential rate of return to Stockholder Exchanges was reasonable in light of
the nature of the capital commitments and the additional risks inherent in their contributions.84
OCC further argues that the elements of the Capital Plan (the Fee Policy, Refund Policy, and
Dividend Policy) are designed to provide appropriate limits on any dividend paid pursuant to the
Dividend Policy.85
(iv)

Commenters Argue that OCC was Sufficiently Capitalized Without the
Capital Plan

Commenters argue that the Capital Plan is inconsistent with 17A(b)(3)(I) of the Exchange
Act86 because OCC’s Target Capital Requirement is inflated, and as a result, the Capital Plan
imposes an unnecessary and inappropriate burden on competition.87 Commenters argue in the
alternative that, even if the Target Capital Requirement is not inflated, there is no need for the

82

See Notice. See also OCC Support Statement.

83

See OCC Support Statement.

84

OCC engaged an outside consulting firm to develop capital needs and targets and a
financial advisor to provide analysis on dividend returns. Outside counsel also provided
advice on governance matters. See OCC Letter I; OCC Letter IV; OCC Support
Statement.

85

See OCC Letter I.

86

15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(I).

87

See SIG Opposition; Reinstitution Motion.

24

Capital Plan88 because OCC is sufficiently capitalized through the accumulation of fees since the
publication of the Notice.89 In the commenters’ view, the accumulation of retained earnings has
placed OCC within reach of its proposed capital levels and may even leave OCC with a surplus,
which renders the Capital Plan wholly unnecessary.90
OCC counters that the Target Capital Requirement is the product of extensive analysis
and takes into account a broad set of factors to cover plausible loss scenarios from business,
operational, and pension risks.91 OCC notes that commenters, in deeming OCC adequately
capitalized, do not provide a methodology for ascertaining a Target Capital Requirement, nor do
they provide with sufficient granularity or specificity the risks that would be covered (and those
that would be excluded) with their proposed lower Target Capital Requirement.92 OCC notes its
financial resources, such as margin and the clearing fund deposits, and not its capital, protect it
against counterparty risk and on-balance sheet credit and market risk. In addition, OCC states
that the commenters incorrectly included in their estimate of its current capital reserve capital
refunds owed by OCC to clearing members and excess over expenses that would be subject to
taxes if they were retained by OCC.93
OCC also disagrees that it has accumulated sufficient funds from clearing fees since the

88

See KCG Opposition Statement; PEAK6 Opposition Statement; SIG Opposition
Statement.

89

See KCG Opposition; SIG Opposition.

90

See SIG Letter III.

91

See Notice; OCC Support Statement.

92

See OCC Support Statement.

93

Id.

25

Capital Plan was proposed to render the Capital Plan unnecessary. OCC takes issue with
commenters’ calculations because, despite claiming the Capital Plan as being unnecessary,
commenters included the contributions already made pursuant to the Plan in their calculations.94
In absence of the Capital Plan, OCC notes that its capital resources would be less than $150
million, which is less than both: (i) half of the $364 million in capital resources available to it
under the Capital Plan; and (ii) the $247 million Target Capital Requirement.95
(v)

Commenters Argue that OCC Failed to Properly Consider Alternative
Sources of Raising Capital

Finally, commenters argue that the Capital Plan is inconsistent with Section 17A(b)(3)(I)
of the Exchange Act96 because OCC’s Board failed to consider alternative and less costly ways
to raise capital, including having OCC raise capital by accumulating retained earnings through
some combination of fees and reduced rebates,97 raise capital from existing Stockholder
Exchanges at a lower rate of return,98 raise capital from Non-Stockholder Exchanges, clearing

94

See OCC Support Statement.

95

See OCC Support Statement.

96

15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(I).
See, e.g., MM Letter; SIFMA Letter; SIG Opposition Statement. In support of the
alternative of raising capital through accumulative retained earnings, commenters
proposed an alternative of an escrow, or Payer Asset Approach, where OCC could
accumulate retained earnings and place them in escrow. See MM Letter; SIG Petition.
These commenters argue that by placing the fee revenue (which would be retained
earnings if held by OCC) in escrow to cover business, operational, and pension risks,
those monies would not be considered an asset of the Stockholder Exchanges and subject
to tax and OCC could return excess from the escrow to investors through refunds or
lower fees.

97

98

See MM Letter. Another commenter states that the Chicago Board Options Exchange
offered to provide OCC with a capital infusion at a lower annual rate over a certain
period of time that is more favorable than the Capital Plan, which contemplates paying
the Stockholder Exchanges dividends in perpetuity. See SIG Opposition Statement.

26

members or third party investors at a lower rate of return,99 and raise capital through other
instruments, such as perpetual preferred stock.100 Commenters suggested that the failure of the
Board to pursue these alternative sources of capital renders the Capital Plan inconsistent with
Section 17A(b)(3)(I) of the Exchange Act101 because it imposes unnecessary and inappropriate
burdens on competition.102
OCC counters that the Board evaluated all viable and potential alternatives.103
Specifically, OCC notes that the Board considered potential alternatives and, after a thorough
deliberation, voted in favor of the Capital Plan because it allowed OCC to increase its capital
almost instantaneously (i.e., the Capital Contribution was paid immediately) and provided the
benefit of Replenishment Capital.104 In addition to immediately increasing OCC’s Capital,

99

See, e.g., BATS Letter I; BATS Letter II.

100

See BOX Letter I.

101

15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(I).

102

See, e.g., SIG Petition; BATS Letter I.

103

See OCC Letter II (noting that it was not clear how an escrow fund that is not an asset of
OCC would satisfy the Commission’s proposed rule requirement concerning liquid net
assets funded by equity); OCC Support Statement (noting that accumulating fees would
require “$593 million in pre-tax clearing fees” from members). In addition, OCC states
that its Board considered CBOE’s proposal, but did not find it viable in meeting its
capital needs because CBOE’s proposed contribution would have been in the form of a
loan, and thus would be debt, and was not fully developed. See October 15, 2015
Declaration of Craig S. Donohue (“Donohue Declaration”). OCC also states that it
considered issuing capital stock to clearing members and Non-Stockholder Exchanges
and issuing perpetual preferred shares to outside institutional investors. See OCC Letter
I; OCC Letter II.

104

See OCC Letter II (noting the importance of OCC’s continuity and need for capital to
withstand an event arising from business, operational and pension risks and the Board’s
concern with timeliness; based on these considerations, the Board considered alternate
plans as taking too long to accumulate sufficient capital); also see OCC Support
27

OCC’s Board determined that the Capital Plan was superior to other alternatives when it took
into account factors such as liquidity, the timeliness and certainty of obtaining capital, and
applicable taxes.105
(vi)

Commission Findings
a. Capital Plan is Consistent with Exchange Act Section 17A(b)(3)(F)

The Commission has considered the comments described above and finds that the Capital
Plan is consistent with Exchange Act Section 17A(b)(3)(F).
After reviewing the Dividend Policy in conjunction with the other elements of the Capital
Plan, the Commission does not believe that the Dividend Policy, or the Capital Plan as a whole,
changes OCC’s essential role as a market utility. Instead, the Capital Plan is designed to enhance
OCC’s capitalization rather than to enable the Stockholder Exchanges to monetize OCC’s
clearing monopoly. This enhanced capitalization is designed to allow OCC to continue its
essential role by raising sufficient capital to cover business, operational, and pension risks. The
Board determined that the historical practice of solely using fees, with annual refunds, to cover
operating expenses and manage risks did not allow OCC to reach adequate capitalization.106
Under the Refund Policy, OCC will continue its practice of refunding a significant percentage of
excess clearing fees to clearing members, thus preserving that aspect of OCC’s industry “utility”
Statement (noting that raising capital through fee increases does not provide the
immediate access to additional capital that the Replenishment Capital commitment
provides under the Capital Plan).
105

Id.

106

Historically, the Stockholder Exchanges have contributed only minimal capital to OCC.
The Board determined that to obtain substantial Capital Contributions and Replenishment
Capital from the Stockholder Exchanges is the best alternative, which cannot be
accomplished without modification of the past practice of not providing dividends to
Stockholder Exchanges owners of OCC. See Notice at 5173-75.

28

function. And the components of the Capital Plan—the Fee Policy, Refund Policy, and Dividend
Policy— are designed to set the dividends to be paid to the Stockholder Exchanges at a level that
the Board, with the assistance of independent outside financial experts, has determined to be
reasonable for the cost and risks associated with the Stockholder Exchanges’ contributed and
committed capital. As pointed out by OCC, the plan as a whole works to avoid unnecessarily
and unreasonably high operating expenses, maintain the Target Capital Requirement at an
appropriate level and set a reasonable dividend, each as determined by the Board. An increase in
operating expenses would lead to an increase in the Target Capital Requirement, and therefore,
could have the effect of reducing the rate of return in dividends.107
The Commission does not believe that the Capital Plan operates to increase fees, inflate
operating expenses or drive up transaction costs in a manner inconsistent with the protection of
investors or the public interest. The Commission notes that commenters’ arguments ignore that
the Capital Plan incorporates a lower Business Risk Buffer, which allows generally lower fees.108
The Capital Plan provides OCC with sufficient shareholders’ equity to substantially cover the

107

See OCC Letter II. The rate of return would be dependent on many factors, including
clearing fees, which would be subject to the rule filing requirements of Section 19(b)(1)
of the Exchange Act. The Commission also notes that OCC’s status as the only
registered clearing agency for listed options is not relevant in assessing the appropriate
dividend rate under the Capital Plan, which is designed to address business, operational,
and pension risks.

108

In fact, OCC stated that it expected that the Capital Contributions from the Stockholder
Exchanges will enable it to provide a significant refund of 2014 fees. OCC further
expected that its current clearing fees will be reduced significantly based on the Business
Risk Buffer of 25% beginning in 2015 with refunds restored, and that these lower fees
will continue for the foreseeable future. See Notice at 5175. As described above, OCC
declared a refund of 2014 fees and a 19% fee reduction. In addition, OCC also
announced a special refund that represents the excess of 2015 pre-tax income over OCC’s
target revenue based on achievement of the 25% Business Risk Buffer. See OCC Press
Release.

29

potential costs related to OCC’s business, operational, and pension risks, thus reducing the need
for OCC’s Board to budget for those risks when estimating the projected forward 12-month
operating expenses (a key component of the formula for setting fees under the Fee Policy).
Therefore, the Commission believes that clearing members and customers will benefit from the
proposed Capital Plan because it will allow OCC to continue to provide clearing services at
expected lower fees. In addition, there will be tax implications associated with retained earnings
and dividend payments, which in turn affects refunds and the dividend rate under the Capital
Plan. OCC therefore would be motivated to take applicable taxes into consideration in setting
new fee schedules or declaring dividends or refunds. At the very least, the Commission does not
believe that it is inevitable that the Capital Plan will lead to higher fees as the commenters assert.
For the reasons provided above, the Commission does not believe that the potential
dividend rate, the Dividend Policy, or the Capital Plan, is inconsistent with investor protection or
the public interest. On the contrary, the Capital Plan will support the critical functions and
continued operations of OCC, particularly during times when its capital position is impaired, and
is, therefore, consistent with the protection of investors and the public interest under Exchange
Act Section 17A(b)(3)(F).109
b. Capital Plan is Consistent with Exchange Act Section 17A(b)(3)(I)
After considering the comments described above, the Commission finds that the Capital
Plan does not impose any burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of
the purposes of the Act, and is therefore consistent with Exchange Act Section 17A(b)(3)(I).110

109

15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(F).

110

Id.

30

The Commission notes that Exchange Act Section 17A(b)(3)(I)111 does not require the
Commission to make a finding that OCC chose the option that imposes the least possible burden
on competition. Rather, the Exchange Act requires that the Commission find that the Capital
Plan does not impose any burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of
the purposes of the Exchange Act, which involves balancing the competitive effects of the
proposed rule change against all other relevant considerations under the Exchange Act. 112
The Commission has considered all the comments, OCC’s responses and alternate plans
for raising capital described by commenters. As an initial matter, the Commission does not
believe that the Dividend Policy, or the Capital Plan as a whole, creates a subsidy that unfairly
advantages Stockholder Exchanges. The Commission notes that any potential dividends
declared under the Dividend Policy are intended to be consideration for the Stockholder
Exchanges’ contribution or commitment to capital and compensation for their opportunity cost
and risk of loss associated with such contribution and commitment.113 Further, the Commission

111

15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(I).

112

Bradford Nat’l Clearing Corp. v. SEC, 590 F.2d 1085, 1105 (D.C. Cir. 1978) (noting that
to the extent that the legislative history provides any guidance to the Commission in
taking competitive concerns into consideration in its deliberations on the national
clearing system, it merely requires the SEC to "balance" those concerns against all others
that are relevant under the statute).

113

Each Stockholder Exchange has contributed $30 million to OCC, which is capital that
cannot be used for other purposes. Thus, each Stockholder Exchange has forgone the
opportunity to deploy or invest that capital. Additionally, if OCC’s capital were to fall
below the “Hard Trigger,” meaning that the initial Capital Contribution was lost, the
Stockholder Exchanges would be required to provide Replenishment Capital, which, as
discussed above, would likely be part of a recovery plan or otherwise in furtherance of
winding down OCC’s business. In such situations, the Stockholder Exchanges would be
committing additional capital without any expectation that such capital will ever be
repaid. See OCC Support Statement. Non-Stockholder Exchanges are in a different
position than the Stockholder Exchanges in that they are not obligated to provide a
Capital Contribution or commit to provide Replenishment Capital, and therefore do not
31

notes that the operation of the Capital Plan does not require dividends to be paid in any year, and
under certain circumstances such as when Replenishment Capital is outstanding, OCC would not
pay dividends.

The Commission believes that various components of the Capital Plan operate

to set reasonable dividends for the cost and risks associated with the Stockholder Exchanges’
contributed and committed capital. Thus, the Commission does not believe that the Capital Plan
imposes any costs that could be viewed as imposing a burden on competition not necessary or
appropriate under the Exchange Act.
Similarly, the Commission does not believe that the Target Capital Requirement imposes
a burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the
Exchange Act. The Commission notes that the Target Capital Requirement is designed to
provide adequate capitalization, thereby substantially enhancing OCC’s ability as a SIFMU to
sustain non-default losses arising from business, operational, and pension risks. After reviewing
the process used by OCC to establish the Target Capital Requirement, the Commission believes
that the Target Capital Requirement is appropriately designed to capture identified and
foreseeable business risks. OCC represents that it used various measures and took a methodical
and reasoned approach to establish the Target Capital Requirement and the Commission does not
believe that the Target Capital Requirement is or will be set at an unreasonable level.
Moreover, commenters have not explained how alternatives to the Dividend Policy or the
Target Capital Requirement would be effective in promoting the significant interest under the
Exchange Act in having a well-capitalized OCC to allow prompt clearance and settlement. A
well-capitalized OCC provides support for the continued orderly operations of OCC and benefits

bear the costs and risks of the financial obligations attendant with the Capital
Contribution and Replenishment Capital.

32

clearing members, market participants and the options markets broadly. The Commission
therefore finds that even if the dividends paid under the Dividend Policy or future costs incurred
under the Target Capital Requirement or Capital Plan as a whole, as they are currently designed
impose a burden on competition, that burden is necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the
purposes of the Act.
The Commission further notes that whether OCC would accumulate sufficient capital to
reach the Target Capital Requirement through the accrual of fees was unknown at the time OCC
proposed the Capital Plan. OCC’s Board considered this alternative and determined that
accumulation of clearing fees would take several years to achieve the Target Capital
Requirement.114 The Capital Plan immediately addressed the risk of a significant event
impairing OCC’s capital, even though such an event has not in fact occurred.115
Finally, the existence of alternative ways for OCC to raise capital does not render the
Capital Plan inconsistent with the Exchange Act. The Commission notes that the Board
considered various alternative ways to raise capital and that the Board determined that the
Capital Plan was in the best interests of OCC because it was designed to provide immediate

114

See OCC Support Statement (noting that, under the current fee schedule, it would take
until mid-2017 to organically accumulate $364 million in capital. As a result, OCC
concluded that organic accumulation of capital through fee increases was not a durable
solution to its substantial capital needs).

115

Petitioners’ comments, when contending OCC was close to achieving its Target Capital
Requirement of $247 million, did not acknowledge or accept that the total resource
requirement under the Capital Plan was $364 million, including the Replenishment
Capital commitment of $117 million. See SIG Support Statement and KCG Support
Statement. OCC also stated that, as of August 31, 2015, without the $150 million Capital
Contribution under the Capital Plan, OCC's adjusted shareholders' equity would be
approximately $149 million or less than half of the $364 million in total capital resources
available under the Capital Plan, and significantly less than the $247 million Target
Capital Requirement. See OCC Support Statement.

33

access to capital through the Capital Contribution and was supported by the agreement to provide
Replenishment Capital.116 In addition, in evaluating the relative competitive effects of the
Capital Plan and alternative sources of capital, the Commission reiterates that it does not believe
that the Capital Plan will necessarily lead to increased fees or transaction costs. Accordingly, the
Commission finds the burdens imposed by the Capital Plan, if any, are necessary or appropriate
in furtherance of the purposes of the Exchange Act.
For reasons stated above, the Commission finds that the Capital Plan is consistent with
Exchange Act Section 17A(b)(3)(I).117
2.

Capital Plan Provides for an Equitable Allocation of Reasonable Dues,
Fees, and Other Charges Among the Participants

Commenters assert that the Capital Plan is inconsistent with Exchange Act Section
17A(b)(3)(D)118 because it would result in unreasonable fees and cause an inequitable allocation
of future clearing fees.119 Commenters argue that the Capital Plan does not provide for the
equitable allocation of reasonable dues, fees, and other charges among its participants because
the fees unfairly discriminate against Non-Stockholder Exchanges, are potentially excessive, or
present conflicts.120 Commenters argue that the Capital Plan unfairly discriminates against the
Non-Stockholder Exchanges because whereas all exchanges contribute equally to fees, only the

116

The Commission also notes that the Board determined that the Capital Plan contains
certain aspects and features that the alternatives would not be able to achieve (such as
characterization of the net liquid assets raised by OCC as equity instead of debt).

117

15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(I).

118

15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(D).

119

See SIG Petition; MM Letter; KCG Opposition Statement; BATS Opposition Statement.

120

See SIG Petition; MM Letter; BATS Petition; KCG Opposition Statement.

34

Stockholder Exchanges are eligible to receive dividend payments.121
Commenters question whether the Board can fairly guide OCC on budget efficiencies in
setting the fees.122 Commenters also argue that the rule filing process for fee changes, which
requires submission to the Commission, public comment, and Commission review fails to
adequately protect investors against dues, fees, or other charges that are not reasonable because,
at the time of filing, there is no way to calculate whether a fee change will later result in excess
dividends.123
As more fully discussed above, OCC counters that there is no unfair discrimination or
inequitable allocation of fees because the parties’ obligations are different, as only the
Stockholder Exchanges face substantial risk of loss from their capital contributions, and commit
to Replenishment Capital.124 OCC also argues that in addition to the fee change rule filing
process, the Commission could summarily act to suspend any such fee if necessary or
appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Exchange Act.125

121

See BATS Petition.

122

See SIG Opposition Statement (questioning whether the Board would be able to ensure
that budgets are not inflated and that no more revenues than needed are collected,
because Stockholder Exchanges would be conflicted and would unduly influence Board
votes to approve larger budgets that would enrich themselves via dividend payments).
See also MM Letter at 13 (arguing “If the SEC allows the five owners to monetize OCC
in this fashion, the conflicts of interest will diminish the prospect that OCC will perform
efficiently to keep transaction fees low and operating expenses under control. . . . Given
the potential of the dividend to increase with the size of OCC’s budget, we are concerned
where transaction fees may go in the future.”)

123

See BATS Petition; BATS Opposition Statement; KCG Opposition Statement.

124

See OCC Support Statement.

125

See OCC Stay Brief.

35

The Commission finds that the Capital Plan is consistent with Exchange Act Section
17A(b)(3)(D).126 Exchange Act Section 17A(b)(3)(D) provides that the rules of a clearing
agency must provide for equitable allocation of fees among its participants and for reasonable
fees and charges. With respect to equitable allocation, the Capital Plan as a whole, and the Fee
Policy in particular, do not change the way that the fees are allocated among clearing members,
and fees for similarly-situated market participants are equitable. While Stockholder Exchanges
may receive dividends, nothing in the Exchange Act precludes OCC from paying dividends to
the Stockholder Exchanges, who have made substantial contributions to improve OCC’s capital
base. Although end of year refunds to clearing members will be reduced by 50% to allocate
money to pay for dividends, those dividends are compensation for the financial risks and
obligations incurred by the Stockholder Exchanges under the Capital Plan and all clearing
members share in refunds.
With respect to the reasonableness of fees, the Commission does not believe that the
Capital Plan as a whole and the Fee Policy in particular, results in unreasonable dues, fees, and
other charges. After setting its annual Target Capital Requirement, the Fee Policy requires OCC
to set fees at levels to ensure that it can cover operational expenses, business and regulatory
capital needs, and maintain shareholder equity. Reductions to, and the quarterly review of, the
Business Risk Buffer will enable OCC to charge lower fees and make reductions as appropriate
to manage revenue as close to its target as possible. These changes are designed to give market
participants the benefit of lower upfront transaction costs, especially those customer end users
who do not receive passed through refunds from the clearing member.127
126

15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(D).

127

See Notice at 5175.
36

In addition, any future fee change or increase will be subject to the rule filing
requirements under Section 19(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 19b-4 thereunder. The
Commission believes that these filing requirements provide appropriate protection against future
fee increases despite commenters’ assertions to the contrary. The Exchange Act rule filing
requirements for fee changes provide an opportunity for public comment128 and an opportunity
for the Commission to review the change, summarily suspend it and institute proceedings to
ultimately approve or disapprove the change,129 as applicable, to ensure an SRO’s rules meet
regulatory requirements. The Commission believes that various components of the Capital Plan,
including the Dividend Policy, Refund Policy and Fee Policy, operate to maintain fees and
dividend payments, if any, at appropriate levels based on the Target Capital Requirement
established for the year, Business Risk Buffer, and other considerations, such as applicable taxes
and OCC’s industry utility role to provide refunds. The Commission’s review of any future
filings by OCC on its new fee schedule will determine whether the future fee changes are
consistent with the applicable Exchange Act requirements, taking into account all relevant facts
in addition to the Fee Policy under the Capital Plan.
The Commission therefore, disagrees with commenters’ assertions that the fee filings will
not adequately protect investors against dues, fees, or other charges that are not reasonable.
For the reasons discussed above, the Commission finds that the Capital Plan is consistent
with the Exchange Act Section 17A(b)(3)(D)130 because it provides for the equitable allocation
of reasonable dues, fees, and other charges among its participants.
128

15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1).

129

15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(3).

130

15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(D).
37

3.

Facilitating Prompt and Accurate Settlement and Safeguarding of
Securities and Funds under Exchange Act Section 17A(b)(3)(A)

Section 17A(b)(3)(A) of the Exchange Act131 requires that a registered clearing agency be
so organized and have the capacity to be able to facilitate the prompt and accurate settlement of
securities transactions and to safeguard securities and funds in its custody or control or for which
it is responsible. Commenters132 acknowledged OCC’s fundamental need to raise additional
capital to support OCC’s operations.133
OCC asserts that the Capital Plan is structured to provide OCC with sufficient capital (at
a lower fee structure for market participants) to fund unpredictable business, operational, and
pension events that might impair capital.134 OCC noted that in the absence of the Capital Plan,
clearing members’ funds would be put at risk should OCC be unable to withstand an adverse
capital event.135 Additionally, OCC asserts that the Capital Plan is structured to replenish capital
during an adverse capital event, thereby ensuring OCC’s business continuity. 136
Taking these comments into account, the Commission finds that the Capital Plan is
consistent with Exchange Act Section 17(A)(b)(3)(A). The Capital Plan supports OCC’s
business continuity (thereby facilitating the integrity of the clearing agency and its functions) by
raising additional capital and obtaining a commitment from the Stockholder Exchanges to
131

15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(A).

132

No commenters to the Notice raised specific concerns that the Capital Plan was
inconsistent with Exchange Act Section 17A(b)(3)(A).

133

See BATS Letter I at 2; BOX Letter I at 1; KCG Letter I at 2; SIG Letter I at 2.

134

See OCC Letter I; OCC Stay Brief.

135

See OCC Support Statement.

136

See OCC Stay Brief; Notice at 5176.

38

provide potential Replenishment Capital should it become necessary. In this manner, the Capital
Plan ensures that OCC, especially during a significant event that impairs its capital, would have
the capacity to facilitate and promote the prompt and accurate settlement of securities
transactions and to safeguard securities and funds in its custody or control or for which it is
responsible. Accordingly, the Commission finds that the Capital Plan is consistent with
Exchange Act Section 17A(b)(3)(A).
4.

Commission’s Consideration of SRO Rules’ Promotion of Efficiency,
Competition and Capital Formation under Exchange Act Section 3(f)

Section 3(f) of the Exchange Act137 directs that the Commission, when it is reviewing a
rule of a self-regulatory organization, must consider whether such rule promotes efficiency,
competition, and capital formation. Commenters argue that the Commission should not approve
the Capital Plan because the Capital Plan introduces inefficiencies through costs, including tax
liabilities, and imposes burdens on competition.138 One commenter argues that the Capital Plan
is inefficient from a tax perspective because the dividend payments to Stockholder Exchanges
subject a significant portion of OCC’s profits to taxes, which is an inefficient use of industry
funds.139 In response, OCC noted that the Board considered the alternative of raising capital
through accumulating pre-tax clearing fee revenues to a certain amount in after-tax net equity,
but concluded that the Capital Plan was superior because it would increase certainty of OCC’s
compliance with PFMI and Commission’s proposed Rule 17Ad-22(e)(15) in a timely way.140

137

15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(f).

138

BATS Opposition Statement; BOX Petition for Review; KCG Petition for Review.

139

See SIG Opposition Statement.

140

See OCC Support Statement.

39

The Commission has considered whether the Capital Plan promotes efficiency,
competition, and capital formation, and discusses efficiency and capital formation below. The
Commission has discussed the impact of the Capital Plan on competition in Section III.B.1
above.
With respect to the promotion of efficiency, the Commission first notes that under the
Capital Plan, OCC has both immediate and ongoing access to cash to meet its Target Capital
Requirement. From a timing standpoint, the Capital Plan is more immediate and expedient than
several of the alternatives, such as raising capital from Non-Stockholder Exchanges, clearing
members or third-parties, each of which would have necessitated governance changes over a
period of time. Similarly, raising capital through the accumulation of fees was forecasted by
OCC to take several years and would be subject to clearing volume volatility risks.
Second, the Capital Plan efficiently allocates costs for operational risk management
among market participants. Having the Stockholder Exchanges bear the business, operational,
and pension risks up front by making Capital Contributions and committing to Replenishment
Capital in exchange for future dividend payments incents them, as owners of OCC, to prudently
manage and minimize these risks, to avoid the loss of their capital contributions.
Third, on an ongoing basis, OCC intends to use clearing fees to maintain the Target
Capital Requirement. This aspect of the Capital Plan apportions the costs of the Capital Plan to
the clearing firms in relation to their clearing activity. Thus, the Capital Plan seeks to align the
costs and benefits to clearing firms in accordance with their level of clearing activity. The
Commission has considered that, under the Capital Plan, OCC expects to continue to pay refunds
to clearing members from a portion of OCC’s net income. This feature would preserve some of
the key attributes of OCC’s business model as a market utility.

40

The Commission recognizes that, as commenters note, OCC will fund the cost of raising
of capital by paying dividends, when eligible, to the Stockholder Exchanges. However, the
Commission observes that other methods of raising capital similarly would incur costs to OCC
and its participants. For example, raising capital through retained earnings involves costs related
to applicable taxes as well as additional time to accumulate sufficient capital, during which time
OCC will be exposed to business, operational and pension risks without sufficient capital to
protect itself.141 Similarly, raising capital through other instruments such as issuance of
perpetual preferred shares or common stock to Non-Stockholder Exchanges, clearing members
or third-party investors, involves costs related to the transaction itself (e.g. underwriting),
dividend payments, and applicable taxes. And, unlike the Replenishment Capital provided
under the Capital Plan, such instruments would not provide readily available capital during a
critical event, wind-down or recovery period.
The Commission also has considered whether the Capital Plan promotes efficiency from
the tax perspective. The Commission notes that similar tax consequences would exist if OCC
had chosen to raise equity by issuing common stock or preferred stock to Non-Stockholder
Exchanges, clearing members or third-party investors, because in each of these cases, OCC
anticipates paying dividends to these parties in exchange for their investments, which will be
subject to withholding tax prior to making dividend payments. Moreover, tax consequences are
only one aspect of a consideration of efficiency in these circumstances.
141

OCC represents that, in considering alternatives, OCC’s Board determined that the
Capital Plan was financially superior to accumulating capital through fees, which would
have required nearly $593 million in pre-tax clearing fees in order to grow $364 million
in after-tax net equity. In addition, OCC estimated at the time such amount would take
until mid-2017 to achieve. See OCC Support Statement.

41

The Commission also has considered whether the Capital Plan will promote capital
formation. As discussed throughout this order, the Capital Plan is designed to enable OCC to
withstand business, operational, and pension risks that may significantly affect OCC’s ability to
provide prompt clearance and settlement services. It also provides an incentive for OCC to
prudently manage its risks by allocating these risks between Stockholder Exchanges and clearing
participants. As OCC is the only clearing agency for listed standardized options in the U.S., it
plays a crucial role in financial stability. A well-functioning equity options market provides an
infrastructure necessary for trading both equity options and other equity investment products,
which are used by companies and businesses to raise capital. The Commission believes that an
adequately capitalized OCC should promote market confidence in OCC’s ability to continuously
serve the options market, which in turn facilitates prompt clearance and settlement of options
transactions and promotes capital formation.
5.

Other Issues Raised by Commenters

Commenters also raise certain procedural concerns with respect to the Capital Plan.
Specifically, commenters argue that the process OCC underwent to approve the Capital Plan
failed to comply with its own rules.142 Commenters also argue that the Capital Plan should not
have been approved under delegated authority and the Delegated Order failed to fulfill the
Commission’s obligation to engage in “reasoned decision-making” under the Administrative
Procedure Act (“APA”).143 The Commission considers and discusses each of these comments
below.
142

See, e.g., BATS Letter II; MIAX Letter II; BOX Petition; BATS Petition; MIAX Petition.

143

See e.g., SIG Opposition Statement (stating that the case NetCoalition v. SEC, 615 F.3d
525 (D.C. Cir. 2010) and the APA, 5 U.S.C. 551 et seq., obligate the Commission to
engage in “reasoned decision-making”).
42

(i)

Compliance with Self-Regulatory Organization’s Own Rules as
Required under Exchange Act Section 19(g)(1)

Section 19(g)(1) of the Exchange Act144 requires, in part, that every self-regulatory
organization shall comply with its own rules. Form 19b-4 requires each SRO to complete all
actions required to be taken under its constitution, articles of incorporation, by-laws, rules or
corresponding instruments prior to filing a proposed rule change. Several commenters argue that
OCC failed to comply with its By-Laws and such failure might have adversely affected the
quality of the Board’s deliberations and the validity of its ultimate approval of the Capital Plan.
Commenters argue that OCC failed to abide by Article XI of its By-Laws,145 when it
approved the Capital Plan with three instead of five public directors on the Board.146
Commenters also assert that OCC violated its Code of Conduct (including its Conflict of Interest
Policy).147 Commenters argue that directors representing the Stockholder Exchanges should
have been recused from the Board’s vote and their failure to do so invalidates the vote and the

144

15 U.S.C. 78s(g)(1).

145

Article XI, Section I of OCC’s By-Laws provides that OCC’s By-Laws may be amended
at any time by the Board upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the directors then in
office (but not less than a majority of the number of directors).

146

See BATS Letter II; MIAX Letter II; BOX Petition; BATS Petition; MIAX Petition; see
also SIG Opposition Statement (arguing that Stockholder Exchanges exercised control
over the approval process and improperly exercised their veto power, or threatened to
exercise their veto power, in a manner that prevented OCC from considering any plans
that involved equity participation, even if such proposals may have been less costly).

147

See BATS Petition; BOX Petition. See also OCC Code of Conduct for OCC Directors,
which provides that a director shall disclose any actual, potential or apparent conflict of
interest in a matter to be acted on by the Board to the Executive Chairman and OCC’s
General Counsel prior to the discussion or presentation of the matter, where possible in
advance of the meeting, and shall be recused if requested by the Chair of the meeting.

43

Board’s approval of the Capital Plan.148 Commenters also argue that OCC violated its
Interpretation and Policy .01 (to Article VIIB of its By-Laws), which requires OCC to notify
Non-Stockholder Exchanges regarding matters of competitive significance as determined by the
Executive Chairman to afford them an opportunity to make presentations to the Board, because
OCC failed to notify Non-Stockholder Exchanges of the Capital Plan, which in commenters’
view, carries significant competitive effect on Non-Stockholder Exchanges.149
OCC responds that the Board was not prevented from approving the Capital Plan because
of Board vacancies.150 OCC stated that the Capital Plan’s approval was in accordance with its
By-Laws. OCC further maintains that the Board’s vote approving the Capital Plan was
consistent with Delaware law and that neither its own By-Laws nor Delaware law requires a
director to recuse himself or herself when directors on both sides of a question have potential
conflicts but have fully disclosed those conflicts to the Board.151 With respect to the comment of
failure to notify Non-Stockholder Exchanges of the Capital Plan, OCC responds that it did not
violate its own By-Laws because there were no material competitive consequences resulting
from the Capital Plan that would have triggered prior notice to or an opportunity for the Non-

148

See BATS Letter II; MIAX Letter II; SIG Letter I; SIG Letter II; BATS Opposition
Statement (stating that the five directors representing the Shareholder Exchanges did not
recuse themselves despite their conflict of interest due to their financial motivations for
approving the Capital Plan).

149

BATS Opposition Statement; MIAX Petition; SIG Petition; BATS Letter III; BOX Letter
II.

150

OCC Motion to Lift Stay; OCC Support Statement.

151

OCC Motion to Lift Stay; OCC Support Statement.

44

Stockholder Exchanges to make presentations. In OCC’s view, the Capital Plan does not alter
the manner in which Non-Stockholder Exchanges receive clearing services.152
The Commission notes that the standard for approving a proposed rule change of a selfregulatory organization is that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the
Exchange Act, and rules and regulations thereunder.153 While the Commission will not approve
a proposed rule change of a self-regulatory organization before the self-regulatory organization
has completed all action required to be taken under its constitution, articles of incorporation, bylaws, rules or corresponding instruments,154 OCC represented that it did so here, working
through its internal governance process and obtaining its Board’s approval of the Capital Plan in
accordance with its By-Laws prior to filing the proposed rule change. OCC also represents that
the Capital Plan received approval from twelve directors, thus satisfying the requirement of twothirds approval by directors then in office in accordance with its By-Laws.155 Nor do
commenters challenge OCC’s representations that it engaged in that process. Rather, they raise
separate questions as to whether the Board nonetheless failed to comply with its responsibilities

152

OCC Motion to Lift Stay; OCC Stay Brief.

153

See Exchange Act Section 19(b)(2)(C), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2)(C).

154

See General Instruction to Form 19b-4, Item E.

155

According to OCC, eighteen directors were in office at the time the Capital Plan was
approved by the Board and sixteen directors were present at the meeting when the vote
approving the Capital Plan took place, which constituted a quorum. See OCC’s By-Laws
Article III, Section 13. Further, OCC’s Code of Conduct does not on its face require
interested Board members to recuse themselves, but rather to immediately bring to the
attention of the Executive Chairman and the General Counsel any matters that may
involve conflicts of interest or be reasonably perceived by others to raise questions about
potential conflicts. See Code of Conduct for OCC Directors. The record further indicates
that material facts regarding the directors’ interests were disclosed and known to the
Board prior to the vote on the Capital Plan. See OCC Support Statement.

45

under relevant corporate governance principles. Such questions are not appropriately addressed
by the Commission in the context of reviewing this rule filing.
(ii)

Delegated Authority and Commission’s Reasoned Analysis

The Commission has delegated to the Director of the Division of Trading and Markets
the authority to “publish notices of proposed rule changes filed by self-regulatory organizations
and to approve such proposed rule changes.”156 Although commenters raise no legal authority to
challenge the use of delegated authority, they state that the Capital Plan raises significant issues
of policy that are more appropriate for Commission review.157 Because the Commission is
setting aside the Delegated Order, and issuing this Order, this issue is moot.
Commenters also argue that the Delegated Order failed to fulfill its obligation to engage
in “reasoned decision-making,” or failed to examine the relevant data and articulate a satisfactory
explanation for its action, including a rational connection between the facts found and the choice
made.158 The Commission does not address these comments because it is itself engaging in a de
novo review, which includes the appropriate inquiry and analysis as directed by the Exchange
Act.
IV.

Other Motions and Filings

156

See 17 CFR 200.30-3(a)(12).

157

See BATS Letter II; BATS Petition; BOX Petition; KCG Letter I; KCG Petition; MIAX
Petition; SIG Letter I; SIG Petition.

158

See SIG Opposition Statement (citing NetCoalition, 615 F.3d 525 to argue that the
process by which an administrative agency reaches a result must be logical and rational
and the Court’s task is to ensure that the agency has examined the relevant data and
articulated a satisfactory explanation for its action including a “rational connection
between the facts found and the choice made” when evaluating whether the agency action
is arbitrary or capricious under Section 706(2)(A) of the APA, 5 U.S.C. 706(2)(A)).

46

As discussed above, shortly after the issuance of the Review Order and Stay Order,
Petitioners filed the Reinstitution Motion on September 15, 2015, requesting that the
Commission reinstitute the automatic stay.159 OCC filed the OCC Reinstitution Response on
September 22, 2015 and commenters filed the Memo in Further Support on September 25,
2015.160
On October 7, 2015, BATS, BOX, KCG, MIAX and SIG filed a motion (“Evidentiary
Motion”) pursuant to Rule 452 of the Rules of Practice.161 Rule 452 provides that a motion for
leave to adduce additional evidence must show with particularity that such additional evidence is
material and that there were reasonable grounds for failure to adduce such evidence previously.
Rule 452162 further states that if the Commission determines to accept additional evidence, it
may, among other things, remand or refer the proceeding to a hearing officer for the taking of
additional evidence as appropriate. The Evidentiary Motion requests that the Commission refer

159

See Reinstitution Motion; see also Expedition Motion (arguing, inter alia, that the
dividend payments, refund and fee reduction would be impracticable to claw back, such
dividend payments and refund are likely imminent, and the Commission should expedite
its ruling on the Reinstitution Motion).

160

See OCC Reinstitution Response; Memo in Further Support of Reinstitution; see also
SIG Letter III (arguing, inter alia, that OCC’s December 2015 declaration of a refund and
dividend further supports the argument that the Commission should reinstitute the
automatic stay).

161

Motion for an Order Referring this Matter to a Hearing Officer and Directing Discovery
in Advance of Hearing and Supporting Brief (October 7, 2015) (“Evidentiary Motion”)
(citing 17 CFR 201.452, which provides, inter alia, that the Commission may allow the
submission of additional evidence and may remand or refer the proceeding to a hearing
officer to take additional evidence as appropriate).

162

17 CFR 201.452.

47

its review of the Capital Plan to a hearing officer to conduct an evidentiary hearing and to allow
for discovery in advance of any such hearing.163
Additionally, one commenter filed a motion on October 7, 2015, requesting that the
Commission order an oral argument pursuant to Rule 451164 of the Rules of Practice.165 The
commenter argues that oral argument should be granted because such argument would
significantly aid the Commission’s decisional process in reviewing the Delegated Order given
that the Capital Plan involves intense factual and legal disputes and the voluminous briefing and
submissions this commenter and other petitioners have submitted to address these complex
factual and legal disputes.166
OCC filed a brief in opposition to the Evidentiary Motion on October 15, 2015, arguing
that the commenters failed to demonstrate that the legal requirements for granting the motion are
163

BATS, BOX, KCG, MIAX, and SIG filed this motion. See Evidentiary Motion. See also
Memorandum in Support of Motion for an Order (1) Referring This Matter to a Hearing
Officer for the Taking of Additional Evidence, and (2) Directing Discovery in Advance
of the Hearing (October 7, 2015) (“Evidentiary Memo in Support”); SIG Letter III
(arguing, inter alia, that OCC’s December 2015 declaration of a refund and dividend
further supports the argument that the Commission should grant the Evidentiary Motion).

164

17 CFR 201.451.

165

See Motion for Oral Argument in Connection with the Commission’s Review of the
Staff’s Order Approving OCC’s Capital Plan (October 10, 2015) (“Oral Argument
Motion”) (citing 17 CFR 201.451, which provides, in part, that the Commission may
order an oral argument if it determines that the presentation of facts and legal arguments
in the briefs and record and the decisional process would be significantly aided by oral
argument). See also Motion for Oral Argument in Connection with the Commission’s
Review of the Staff’s Order Approving OCC’s Capital Plan (October 10, 2015) (“Oral
Argument Memo in Support”).

166

See Evidentiary Motion (also arguing that, if the evidentiary hearing takes place and
discovery is conducted in advance of the hearing, oral argument addressing the discovery,
evidence adduced at the evidentiary hearing, evidentiary findings and their significance
would be invaluable to the Commission’s review). See also Evidentiary Memo in
Support.

48

satisfied and prompt affirmance of the Capital Plan is necessary for OCC to be prudently
capitalized at a level appropriate for a SIFMU.167 OCC also filed a Brief in Opposition to
Motion for Oral Argument on October 15, 2015, arguing the motion for an oral argument should
be denied as it is unnecessary because all interested parties have had multiple opportunities to
submit evidence and arguments to the Commission, and that oral argument would only serve to
unduly delay resolution of the Commission’s review of the Delegated Order.168
The Commission received a reply memorandum in further support of the commenter’s
motion for oral argument on October 20, 2015.169 On the same day, commenters also filed a
reply in further support of its Evidentiary Motion.170
The Commission has considered these motions, including OCC’s oppositions and the
movants’ reply memoranda. For the reasons discussed below, these motions are denied.
A.

Reinstitution Motion

167

See OCC’s Brief in Opposition to Motion for Referral to Hearing Officer and Discovery
(“OCC Evidentiary Hearing Opposition”). Specifically, OCC argues that Petitioners
failed to show, with particularity, that the additional evidence sought to introduce is
material and that they had reasonable grounds for failure to adduce the evidence
previously, and merely raised a number of so-called “open issues” and “unanswered
questions” while they have had opportunities to develop the record in the prior
proceeding. See OCC Evidentiary Hearing Opposition.

168

OCC Brief in Opposition to Motion for Oral Argument (October 15, 2015) (“OCC Oral
Argument Motion”).

169

SIG filed this motion. Reply Memorandum in Further Support of Motion for Oral
Argument in Connection with the Commission Review of the Staff’s Order Approving
OCC’s Capital Plan (October 20, 2015) (“Oral Argument Memo in Further Support”).

170

Reply Memorandum in Further Support of Petitioners’ Motion for an Order (1) Referring
this Matter to a Hearing Officer for the Taking of Additional Evidence, And (2) Directing
Discovery in Advance of the Hearing (October 20, 2015) (“Evidentiary Memo in Further
Support”); see also SIG Letter III.

49

Commenters filed the Reinstitution Motion, requesting that the Commission reinstitute
the automatic stay on the ground that there is no compelling reason to implement the Capital
Plan because OCC’s current capital level is approaching the Target Capital Requirement and will
soon exceed that amount and it would be extremely impracticable to reverse the implementation
of the Capital Plan if the Delegated Order were subsequently reversed.171 These commenters
reiterated their arguments following OCC’s announcement of its declaration of refunds,
dividends, and fee reduction pursuant to the Capital Plan and requested the Commission to
expedite its ruling on the Reinstitution Motion.172
OCC responds that the Reinstitution Motion restated issues that had already been argued
at length, considered and denied by the Commission and the Petitioners have not shown any
manifest error, change in law or other recognized basis for the Commission to reconsider the
Stay Order.173 OCC further argues that the Petitioners failed to provide any other valid basis for
the Commission to overturn the Stay Order, which was based on a finding that there is a
compelling public interest in strengthening OCC’s capitalization and for the stay to be lifted. 174
Because the Commission by this Order is engaging in a substantive review and approving
the Capital Plan directly, the Reinstitution Motion and Expedition Motion are hereby moot.
B.

Evidentiary Motion

Rule 452 governs the allowance of the submission of additional evidence.175
Specifically, Rule 452 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice describes discretionary standards
171

See Reinstitution Motion.

172

See Expedition Motion; see also SIG Letter III.

173

See OCC Reinstitution Response.

174

See id.

50

by which the Commission may allow additional evidence, noting that motions for allowing the
submission of additional evidence must: (i) show with particularity that the requested evidence is
material, and (ii) that reasonable grounds existed for the failure to adduce this evidence
previously.176
In the Evidentiary Motion, the commenters request that the Commission: (i) refer this
matter to a hearing officer, and (ii) direct discovery in advance of the hearing.177 They argue that
the current record before the Commission is insufficient for the Commission to find that the
Capital Plan is consistent with the requirements of the Exchange Act under Exchange Act
Section 19(b)(2)(C)(i).178
Commenters rely on NetCoalition v. SEC 179 to suggest that the Commission needs to
supplement the factual record.180 Commenters also rely on Chamber of Commerce of U.S. v.

175

See 17 CFR 201.451.

176

17 CFR 201.451. Commenters also cited the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Rule
100(c) as authority for the Commission to authorize pre-hearing discovery. See 17 CFR
201.100(c).

177

See Evidentiary Motion; see also Memorandum in Support and Evidentiary Memo in
Further Support.

178

See Evidentiary Memo in Support (citing 17 CFR 201.100(c) as providing that the
Commission “may by order direct, in a particular proceeding, that an alternative
procedure shall apply or that compliance with an otherwise applicable rule is necessary”);
(noting that factual record is not developed adequately regarding: (i) Exchange Act
Section 17A(b)(3)(D); (ii) Exchange Act Section 17A(b)(3)(F); and (iii) Exchange Act
Section 17A(b)(3)(I)). See also 15 USC 78s(b)(2)(C)(i).

179

NetCoalition v. SEC, 615 F.3d 525.

180

See Evidentiary Memo in Support (arguing that the Commission should refer the
Delegated Order to an administrative law judge so that the law judge can consider a fully
developed record).

51

SEC181 and the case’s emphasis on consideration of alternatives.182 Specifically, commenters
note that the Delegated Order fails to mention multiple alternative capital raising plans that
commenters proposed, including the CBOE proposal.183
Additionally, commenters question whether OCC’s Board approval process operated in a
manner consistent with the public interest and seeks additional evidence about that approval
process.184
Commenters also argue that OCC will effectively achieve its Target Capital Requirement
within six months without implementing the Capital Plan.185 Due to an alleged lack of data and
supposed “opacity in the record concerning OCC’s current and projected capital levels,”
commenters assert that discovery and an evidentiary hearing are necessary and that the
replenishment capital calculation needs to be supported factually.186
OCC responds to these comments by noting that the commenters fail to meet the Rule
452 standards; specifically: (i) that the motion fails to identify any material evidence with
181

412 F.3d 133 (D.C. Cir. 2005).

182

Evidentiary Memo in Support.

183

See Evidentiary Memo in Support; Evidentiary Memo in Further Support (arguing that,
under Chamber of Commerce, the Commission must explore alternatives; specifically,
that the Commission must consider “facially reasonable alternatives” raised by a party, or
provide reasons for not doing so).

184

See Evidentiary Memo in Support (citing Exchange Act Release No. 50699 (November
18, 2004), 69 FR 71126, 71140 (December 8, 2004)(“The Commission believes that
independent directors must be provided with the opportunity to discuss any important
matters regarding the exchange or association in a frank and open manner, free from the
presence of management. Therefore, the Commission proposed that the independent
directors of the exchange’s or association’s board meet regularly in executive session”).

185

See Evidentiary Memo in Support.

186

See Evidentiary Memo in Further Support.

52

particularity, and (ii) that the motion fails to provide a reasonable basis to explain the
commenters’ failure to obtain the requested information earlier.187
OCC states that, instead of identifying material evidence with particularity, commenters
provided a sweeping list of discovery requests without an attempt to articulate why this
information is material.188 Specifically, OCC notes that the motion raises three types of
inquiries, each of which fails to meet the Rule 452 materiality standard: (i) inquiries into
alternatives; (ii) inquiries into the Board’s process for approval of the Capital Plan; and (iii)
inquiries into OCC’s Target Capital Requirements.189 OCC further notes that Rule 452 requires
a motion for leave to adduce additional evidence to “show with particularity that such additional
evidence is material and that there were reasonable grounds for failure to adduce such evidence
previously.”190
The Commission has determined that the information the Evidentiary Motion seeks to
discover is not material to its review of the Capital Plan for purposes of determining whether the
Capital Plan is consistent with the Exchange Act. The Evidentiary Motion requests information
regarding: (i) whether OCC considered less expensive alternatives to the Capital Plan; (ii)
whether OCC’s Board approval process was designed to serve the Stockholder Exchanges rather
than the public interest; and (iii) whether OCC will achieve its Target Capital Requirement
within six months without the Capital Plan’s implementation. As discussed above, the existence

187

See OCC’s Brief in Opposition to Motion for Referral to Hearing Officer and Discovery
(October 15, 2015) (“OCC Evidentiary Hearing Opposition”).

188

See id.

189

See id.

190

See id (citing 17 CFR 201.452).

53

of alternatives to the Capital Plan does not render the Capital Plan inconsistent with the
Exchange Act, and the record fully establishes that OCC considered other alternatives to the
Capital Plan. Additionally, the record indicates that OCC engaged in the required process to
approve the Capital Plan, and questions regarding whether that process complied with relevant
corporate governance principles are not appropriately addressed by the Commission in the
context of reviewing this rule filing. Finally, the Commission notes that whether OCC would
accumulate sufficient capital to reach the Target Capital Requirement was unknown at the time
OCC proposed the Capital Plan and commenters’ after-the-fact assertions about OCC capital
levels include capital contributions made pursuant to the Capital Plan. The record also shows
that the Capital Plan provides for the immediate infusion of capital and a commitment to provide
Replenishment Capital, which OCC states could not be achieved in the same manner by other
means.191
The Commission has evaluated the record and, for reasons discussed above, finds that the
Capital Plan is consistent with the Exchange Act requirements, and rules and regulations
thereunder, applicable to OCC, and the Commission finds that the introduction of additional
information is not necessary. Consequently, under Rule 452, the Commission denies the
Evidentiary Motion.
C.

Oral Argument Motion

Rule 451192 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provides that the Commission may
order oral argument if the Commission determines that the presentation of the facts and the legal
191

See OCC Letter II and OCC Support Statement.

192

17 CFR 201.451 (stating that the Commission “on its own motion or the motion of a
party or any other aggrieved person entitled to Commission review, may order oral
argument with respect to any matter. . . [t]he Commission will consider appeals, motions
54

arguments in the briefs and record and decisional process would be significantly aided by oral
argument.
A commenter states that an oral argument is proper under Rule 451.193 Specifically, the
commenter contends that an oral argument would allow the Commission to resolve the factual
disputes regarding: (i) OCC’s proposed capital target assumptions; (ii) OCC’s actual financial
condition; (iii) OCC’s Board approval process; and (iv) the availability of alternative plans. 194
The commenter argues that, even if the Commission denies the other discovery motion,195 an oral
argument would still allow the Commission to address multiple factual issues that remain in
dispute in the current record.196
The commenter further argues that OCC has failed to show the negative impact of an oral

and other matters properly before it on the basis of the papers filed by the parties without
oral arguments unless the Commission determines that the presentation of the facts and
the legal arguments in the briefs and record and decisional process would be significantly
aided by oral argument”).
193

See Motion for Oral Argument in Connection with the Commission’s Review of the
Staff’s Order Approving OCC’s Capital Plan (October 7, 2015) (“Oral Argument
Motion”); Memorandum in Support of Motion for Oral Argument in Connection with the
Commission’s Review of the Staff’s Order Approving OCC’s Capital Plan (October 7,
2015) (“Oral Argument Memo in Support”); see also Reply Memorandum in Further
Support of Motion for Oral Argument in Connection with the Commission’s Review of
the Staff’s Order Approving OCC’s Capital Plan (October 21, 2015) (“Oral Argument
Reply Memo”).

194

See Oral Argument Memo in Support.

195

See Motion for an Order (1) Referring This Matter to a Hearing Officer for the Taking of
Additional Evidence, and (2) Directing Discovery in Advance of the Hearing (October 7,
2015); see also Memorandum in Support of Motion for an Order (1) Referring This
Matter to a Hearing Officer for the Taking of Additional Evidence, and (2) Directing
Discovery in Advance of the Hearing (October 7, 2015).

196

See Oral Argument Memo in Support.

55

argument.197 Specifically, the commenter states that OCC does not identify any harm that could
result from any delay associated with the scheduling of an oral argument.198 The commenter also
notes that oral argument would allow the Commission to satisfy concerns under the APA.199
Finally, the commenter states that OCC’s recent submissions reflect the need to supplement an
evolving record.200
OCC responds that the commenter’s motion does not satisfy the requirements of Rule
451, stating that the Commission has routinely denied oral argument when the issues raised can
be determined by the record and papers filed by the parties.201 OCC also notes that the motion
does not demonstrate any facts or legal standards that the Commission cannot consider
adequately on the written submissions.202 Further, OCC argues that the Commission should
deny the motion for oral argument because: (i) commenters already had multiple opportunities to

197

See Oral Argument Memo in Further Support.

198

See Oral Argument Memo in Further Support.

199

See Oral Argument Reply Memo (noting that oral argument would allow a fuller
explanation of the Capital Plan’s issues necessary to satisfy the APA’s requirement for
“reasoned decision-making”).

200

See Oral Argument Reply Memo (suggesting that OCC’s recent submission of an
affidavit by its Executive Chairman reflects information that was not previously
discussed, and therefore, unaddressed by commenters).

201

See OCC Oral Argument Opposition Brief (October 15, 2015) (“OCC Oral Argument
Opposition”) (citing In the Matter of D.E. Wine Inv., Inc., et al., File No. 3-8535,
Exchange Act Release No. 43929 (Feb. 6, 2001); and In the Matter of the Application of
Cleantech Innovations, Inc., File No. 3-14640, Exchange Act Release No. 69968, at 17
n.67 (July 11, 2013)).

202

See OCC Oral Argument Opposition.

56

submit arguments and information; and (ii) oral argument would unduly delay resolution of the
Commission’s review.203
Pursuant to the Rules of Practice, the Commission considers matters properly before it on
the basis of the papers filed by the parties without oral argument unless it determines that the
presentation of facts and legal arguments in the briefs and record and the decisional process
would be significantly aided by oral argument.204 The Commission notes the record is extensive,
and contains significant amounts of data and information related to the Capital Plan. As a result,
the Commission does not believe that either the presentation of facts and legal arguments in the
briefs and record or the decisional process would be significantly aided by oral argument.
Accordingly, the Commission denies the Oral Argument Motion.

203

See OCC Oral Argument Opposition.

204

See 17 CFR 201.451.

57

V.

Conclusion
It is therefore ordered that the earlier action taken by delegated authority, Securities

Exchange Act Release No. 74452 (March 6, 2015), 80 FR 13058 (March 12, 2015) is set aside
and pursuant to section 19(b)(2) of the Exchange Act SR-OCC-2015-02 is approved. All
pending motions in this matter are hereby denied.
For the reasons stated above, it is hereby:
ORDERED that the earlier action taken by delegated authority, Securities Exchange Act
Release No. 74452 (March 6, 2015), 80 FR 13058 (March 12, 2015) is hereby set aside; and
It is further ORDERED that SR-OCC-2015-02 is hereby approved pursuant to section
19(b)(2) of the Exchange Act; and
It is further ORDERED that the Motion to Reinstitute Automatic Stay is DENIED AS
MOOT; and
It is further ORDERED that the Motion to Expedite the Commission’s Ruling on the
Pending Motion to Reinstitute the Automatic Stay is DENIED AS MOOT; and
It is further ORDERED that the Motion for an Order (1) Referring this Matter to a
Hearing Officer for the Taking of Additional Evidence, And (2) Directing Discovery in Advance
of the Hearing is DENIED; and
It is further ORDERED that the Motion for Oral Argument in Connection with the
Commission’s Review of the Staff’s Order Approving OCC’s Capital Plan and Supporting Brief
is DENIED.

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

58

