UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78087 /June 16, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4430 / June 16, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17301

ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
AND SECTION 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
ROHIT BANSAL,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b)(6) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Section 203(f) of
the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Rohit Bansal (“Respondent” or
“Bansal”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s
jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the findings contained in
Sections III.2., and III.4. below, and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative
Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 203(f)

of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions
(“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that
1.
From approximately July 2014 through October 3, 2014, Bansal was an Associate in
the Financial Institutions Group of the Investment Banking Division at Goldman Sachs & Co.
(“Goldman”). Goldman is dually registered with the Commission as a broker-dealer and investment
adviser. Bansal, 30 years old, is a resident of New York, New York.
2.
On November 5, 2015, Bansal pleaded guilty to one count of theft of government
property in violation of Title 18 United States Code Sections 641 and 2 before the United States
District Court for the Southern District of New York, in the criminal case entitled United States v.
Rohit Bansal, 1:15-cr-00771. He was sentenced to two years of probation, 300 hours of
community service and fined $5,000.
3.
The count of the criminal information to which Bansal pleaded guilty alleged, inter
alia, that Bansal knowingly obtained confidential documents from the FRBNY, without
authorization, and utilized and disseminated certain of the documents in an effort to further his
employment at the investment bank at which he was then employed.
4.
On November 5, 2015, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
entered an Order of Prohibition Issued Upon Consent Pursuant to Section 8(e) of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act, as Amended, against Bansal in In the Matter of Rohit Bansal, 15-033-G-I
(the “Federal Reserve Order”). The Federal Reserve Order, which Bansal consented to, orders that
Bansal, inter alia, be prohibited from participating in any manner in the conduct of the affairs of
any institution or agency specified in Section 8(e)(7)(A) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12
U.S.C. § 1818(e)(7)(A), including but not limited to, any insured depository institution or any
holding company of an insured depository institution, or any subsidiary of such holding company,
or any foreign bank or company to which subsection (a) of 12 U.S.C. Section 3106 applies and any
subsidiary of such foreign bank or company.
5.
The Federal Reserve Order was issued pursuant to Sections 3(u) and 8(b)(3) of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. §§ 1813(u) and 1818(b)(3), which authorizes the Federal
Reserve Board to issue a cease and desist order where an affiliated party knowingly or recklessly
participates in any violation of any law or regulation; any breach of fiduciary duty or any unsafe or
unsound practice which caused or is likely to cause more than a minimal financial loss to, or a
significant adverse effect on, the insured deposit institution. The Federal Reserve Order states that
it is issued upon the consent of Bansal and relates to Bansal’s theft and misappropriation of
confidential supervisory information belonging to the Board of Governors.

2

IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Bansal’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act and
Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act, that Respondent Bansal be, and hereby is barred from
association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal
advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating organization; and
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, Respondent Bansal be, and hereby is
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder,
consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with at broker, dealer or issuer for
purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the
purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

