UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78706 / August 26, 2016
Admin. Proc. File No. 3-17004

In the Matter of
DEVEN SELLERS and
ROLAND BARRERA

NOTICE THAT INITIAL DECISION HAS BECOME FINAL
The time for filing a petition for review of the initial decision in this proceeding has
expired. No such petition has been filed by Deven Sellers or Roland Barrera, and the
Commission has not chosen to review the decision on its own initiative.
Accordingly, notice is hereby given, pursuant to Rule 360(d) of the Commission's Rules
of Practice,1 that the initial decision of the administrative law judge has become the final
decision of the Commission with respect to Deven Sellers and Roland Barrera.2 The orders
contained in that decision are hereby declared effective. The initial decision ordered that,
pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934: a) Deven Sellers is barred
from associating with a broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal
advisor, transfer agent, and nationally recognized statistical rating organization, and from
participating in an offering of penny stock, including acting as any promoter, finder, consultant,
agent, or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer, or issuer for purposes of
the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the purchase or
sale of any penny stock; and b) Roland Barrera is barred from associating with a broker, dealer,
investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, and nationally
recognized statistical rating organization, and from participating in an offering of penny stock,

1
2

17 C.F.R. ยง 201.360(d).

Deven Sellers and Roland Barrera, Initial Decision Release No. 1036 (July 14, 2016), 114
SEC Docket 11, 2016 WL 4035563.

2

including acting as any promoter, finder, consultant, agent, or other person who engages in
activities with a broker, dealer, or issuer for purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny
stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the purchase or sale of any penny stock, with the right
to reapply in five years.
For the Commission, by the Office of the General Counsel, pursuant to delegated
authority.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

