UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 76986/ January 28, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17072
In the Matter of

CORRECTED ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

KEVIN A. BOYLES,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission") deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") against Kevin A. Boyles
("Boyles" or "Respondent").
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent Kevin A. Boyles has
submitted an Offer of Settlement (the "Offer") which the Commission has determined to accept.
Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of
the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these
proceedings and the findings contained in Sections III.2. and III.4. below, which are admitted,
Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial
Sanctions ("Order"), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Boyles, age 49, resides in Ventura, California. Boyles was formerly the founder
and sole owner, officer, and director to Team Resources, Inc. and Fossil Energy Corporation. In

those capacities, Boyles prepared or directed the preparation of offering documents, controlled
relevant bank accounts, sold limited partnership interests to investors, and assembled and directed
salespersons to sell the limited partnership units. Boyles is not, and never has been, a
Commission-registered broker, nor was he associated with a registered broker-dealer.
2.
On April 10, 2015, a judgment was entered by consent against Boyles, permanently
enjoining him from future violations of Sections 5(a), 5(c), 17(a), 20(d), and 21(d)(3) of the
Securities Act of 1933 ("Securities Act"), Sections 10(b) and 15(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule
10b-5 thereunder, in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Team
Resources, et al., Civil Action Number 3:15-CV-01045-N, in the United States District Court for
the Northern District of Texas.
3.
The Commission’s complaint alleged that, in connection with the offer and sale of
limited partnership interests, Boyles fraudulently misrepresented or failed to disclose material
information about the offerings, including the receipt of undisclosed sales commissions, and
otherwise engaged in a variety of conduct which operated as a fraud and deceit on investors. The
complaint also alleged that Boyles unlawfully sold unregistered securities, and that he sold these
securities without being properly registered as a broker.
4.
In January 2009, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania’s Securities and Exchange
Commission ("Pennsylvania Commission") issued a Summary Order To Cease and Desist against
Boyles. In April 2009, the Pennsylvania Commission entered an order: (i) permanently barring
Boyles from violating the Pennsylvania Securities Act of 1972; (ii) barring Boyles from soliciting
the sale of securities in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania for six months; and (iii) requiring
Boyles to pay $2,000 to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Boyles’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act,
that Respondent Boyles be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer,
investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally
recognized statistical rating organization; and
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent Boyles be, and hereby is
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder,
consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for
purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the
purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
2

disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.
Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

