SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
(Release No. 34-74384; File No. SR-MSRB-2014-08)
February 26, 2015
Self-Regulatory Organizations; Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board; Notice of Filing of
Amendment No. 1 and Amendment No. 2 and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of a
Proposed Rule Change Consisting of Proposed Amendments to MSRB Rules G-1, on Separately
Identifiable Department or Division of a Bank; G-2, on Standards of Professional Qualification;
G-3, on Professional Qualification Requirements; and D-13, on Municipal Advisory Activities
I.

Introduction
On November 18, 2014, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (the “MSRB” or

“Board”) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC” or “Commission”),
pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Act”) 1 and Rule 19b-4
thereunder, 2 a proposed rule change consisting of proposed amendments to MSRB Rules G-1, on
separately identifiable department or division of a bank; G-2, on standards of professional
qualification; G-3, on professional qualification requirements; and D-13, on municipal advisory
activities (the “proposed rule change”). The proposed rule change was published for comment in
the Federal Register on December 5, 2014. 3
The Commission received five comment letters on the proposed rule change. 4 On

1

15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1).

2

17 CFR § 240.19b-4.

3

Securities Exchange Act Release No. 73708 (December 1, 2014), 79 FR 72225
(December 5, 2014) (the “Proposing Release”).

4

See Letters from Anonymous, dated December 25, 2014; Leslie M. Norwood, Managing
Director and Associate General Counsel, Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association (“SIFMA”), dated December 26, 2014 (“SIFMA Letter”); Anonymous
Attorney, on behalf of a registered investment advisor and municipal advisor
(“Anonymous Attorney”), dated December 26, 2014 (“Anonymous Letter”); Tamara K.
Salmon, Senior Associate Counsel, Investment Company Institute (“ICI”), dated

February 5, 2015, the MSRB submitted a response to the comments on the proposed rule
change 5 and filed Amendment No. 1 (“Amendment No. 1”). 6
The Commission received two comment letters on Amendment No.1. 7 On February 20,
2015, the MSRB submitted a response to the comments on Amendment No.1. 8 On February 25,
2015, the MSRB submitted Amendment No. 2 (“Amendment No. 2” and together with
Amendment No. 1, the “Amendments”). 9 The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit
comments on the Amendments from interested persons and is approving the proposed rule
change, as modified by the Amendments, on an accelerated basis.
II.

Description of the Proposed Rule Change
According to the MSRB, the purpose of the proposed rule change is to establish

December 29, 2014 (“ICI Letter”); and Terri Heaton, President, National Association of
Municipal Advisors (“NAMA”), dated January 27, 2015 (“NAMA Letter No. 1”).
5

See Letter to Secretary, Commission, from Lawrence P. Sandor, Deputy General
Counsel, MSRB, dated February 5, 2015 (“MSRB Response Letter No. 1”).

6

See Letter to Secretary, Commission, from Lawrence P. Sandor, Deputy General
Counsel, MSRB, dated February 5, 2015. Amendment No. 1 partially amends the text of
the proposed rule change to revise Rules G-1(a)(ii)(B), G-3(a)(i)(A)(2) and G-3(b)(i)(B)
by deleting the following clause: “except to the extent a person must be qualified as a
municipal advisor representative to perform such services.” The MSRB believes that it
would be premature to include such clause until certain foundational rules regarding
municipal advisors are approved and effective.

7

See Letters from Dave A. Sanchez Attorney at Law (“Sanchez”), dated February 12,
2015 (“Sanchez Letter”); and Terri Heaton, President, NAMA, dated February 12, 2015
(“NAMA Letter No. 2”).

8

See Letter to Secretary, Commission, from Lawrence P. Sandor, Deputy General
Counsel, MSRB, dated February 20, 2015 ( “MSRB Response Letter No. 2” and together
with MSRB Response Letter No. 1, the “MSRB Response Letters”).

9

See Letter to Secretary, Commission, from Michael Cowart, Assistant General Counsel,
MSRB, dated February 25, 2015. Amendment No. 2 partially amends Amendment No. 1
to correct a technical error in a quotation of rule text.
2

professional qualification requirements for municipal advisors and their associated persons and
to make related changes to select MSRB rules. 10 A full description of the proposed rule change is
contained in the Proposing Release.
1. Proposed Amendments to Rule G-1
The proposed amendments to Rule G-1 includes language to provide that, for purposes of
its municipal advisory activities, the term “separately identifiable department or division of a
bank” would have the same meaning as used in 17 CFR 240.15Ba1-1(d)(4). 11
2. Proposed Amendments to Rule G-2
The proposed amendments to Rule G-2 add a basic requirement that no municipal advisor
shall engage in municipal advisory activities unless such municipal advisor and every natural
person associated with such municipal advisor is qualified in accordance with the rules of the
Board. 12
3. Proposed Amendments to Rule G-3
Apprenticeship
MSRB Rule G-3 currently requires a municipal securities representative to serve an
apprenticeship period of 90 days before transacting business with any member of the public or
receiving compensation for such activities. 13 The MSRB believes that dealers and municipal
advisors should determine the length and nature of the initial training for newly registered
persons, consistent with industry feedback and the approach taken by Financial Industry
10

See supra note 3 at 2.

11

See Exhibit 5 of the Amendments.

12

Id.

13

See supra note 3 at 9.
3

Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”). 14 Accordingly, the proposed amendments to Rule G-3
eliminate the apprenticeship requirement for municipal securities representatives and, similarly,
do not propose an apprenticeship requirement for municipal advisor representatives. 15
New Registration Classifications
The proposed amendments to Rule G-3 create two new registration classifications: (i)
municipal advisor representative; and (ii) municipal advisor principal. 16
The proposed amendments to Rule G-3 define a “municipal advisor representative” as a
natural person associated with a municipal advisor who engages in municipal advisory activities
on the municipal advisor’s behalf, other than a person performing only clerical, administrative,
support or similar functions. 17 The proposed amendments to Rule G-3 require each municipal
advisor representative to take and pass the Municipal Advisor Representative Qualification
Examination prior to being qualified as a municipal advisor representative. 18
The proposed amendments to Rule G-3 define a “municipal advisor principal” as a
natural person associated with a municipal advisor who is qualified as a municipal advisor
representative and is directly engaged in the management, direction or supervision of the
municipal advisory activities of the municipal advisor and its associated persons. 19 The proposed

14

Id.

15

Id.

16

See supra note 11.

17

Id.

18

Id.

19

Id.
4

amendments to Rule G-3 require each municipal advisor to designate at least one municipal
advisor principal. 20
In addition, the proposed amendments to Rule G-3 require any person who ceases to be
associated with a municipal advisor for two or more years (at any time after having qualified as a
municipal advisor representative) to take and pass the Municipal Advisor Representative
Qualification Examination prior to being qualified as a municipal advisor representative, unless a
waiver is granted. 21
MSRB Waiver
The proposed amendments to Rule G-3 and the Supplementary Material permit the
MSRB to consider waiving the requirement that a municipal advisor representative or municipal
advisor principal pass the Municipal Advisor Representative Qualification Examination in
extraordinary cases: (1) where the applicant participated in the development of the Municipal
Advisor Representative Qualification Examination as a member of the MSRB’s Professional
Qualifications Advisory Committee (“PQAC”); or (2) where the applicant previously qualified
as a municipal advisor representative by passing the Municipal Advisor Representative
Qualification Examination and such qualification lapsed pursuant to Rule G-3(d)(ii)(B). 22
4. Proposed Amendments to Rule D-13
Currently, Rule D-13 defines municipal advisory activities as the activities described in
Section 15B(e)(4)(A)(i) and (ii) of the Act. 23 The proposed amendments to Rule D-13

20

Id.

21

Id.

22

Id.

23

See supra note 3 at 5.
5

incorporate Commission rules into the definition by providing that the term “municipal advisory
activities” means, except as otherwise specifically provided by rule of the Board, the activities
described in Section 15B(e)(4)(A)(i) and (ii) of the Act and the rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder. 24
5. Technical Amendments
The proposed rule change would also make minor technical amendments to select MSRB
rules, such as amending Rule G-3(a)(ii) to correctly re-letter G-3(a)(ii)(D) as G-3(a)(ii)(C). 25
6. Effective Date
The MSRB requested that the proposed rule change become effective 60 days following
the date of Commission approval. 26 The MSRB stated that the effective date of the Municipal
Advisor Representative Qualification Examination will be announced by the MSRB with at least
30 days notice. 27 The MSRB further stated that prospective municipal advisor representatives
will have one year from the effective date of the Municipal Advisor Representative Qualification
Examination to pass such examination. 28
III.

Summary of Comments Received and the MSRB’s Response
The Commission received five comment letters in response to the proposed rule change

(four of which provide substantive comments) and two comment letters in response to

24

See supra note 11.

25

Id.

26

See supra note 3 at 10.

27

Id.

28

Id. at 6.
6

Amendment No. 1. 29 The Commission received MSRB Response Letter No. 1 in response to
comments regarding the proposed rule change and MSRB Response Letter No. 2 in response to
comments regarding Amendment No. 1. 30 A full description of the comments, MSRB responses,
and amendments are contained in the comment letters, the MSRB Response Letters, and the
Amendments, respectively.
1. SIFMA Letter
Professional Qualifications Examination
SIFMA believes that persons currently qualified to perform municipal securities activities
should also be qualified to perform municipal advisor activities. 31 In other words, SIFMA
believes that after the effective date of the proposed rule change, the Series 52 qualification
examination should be sufficient for both municipal securities representatives and municipal
advisor representatives. 32
Given the new regulatory regime for municipal advisors and the differences in the roles
of municipal advisor and securities professionals, the MSRB does not believe the Series 52
examination (or the general securities representative examination that qualified municipal
securities representatives before November 7, 2011) would sufficiently determine whether a
municipal advisor professional meets a minimal level of competency to engage in municipal
advisory activities. 33 The MSRB stated that the focus of the Series 52 examination is not on

29

See supra notes 4 and 7.

30

See supra notes 5 and 8.

31

See SIFMA Letter at 2.

32

Id.

33

See MSRB Response Letter No. 1 at 3.
7

municipal advisory activities. 34 The MSRB further stated that the questions being developed for
the Municipal Advisor Representative Qualification Examination target the job responsibilities
of municipal advisor professionals. 35 The MSRB noted that the roles and job responsibilities of
municipal advisor representatives and municipal securities representatives are distinct, and the
body of law that applies to each type of professional reflects the differences in such roles and
responsibilities. 36
SIFMA is concerned that development of a new qualification examination would take an
additional two to three years. 37 SIFMA states that because the Series 52 examination currently
exists there would be no unnecessary delay in developing test material and administering the test,
thereby avoiding an unnecessary delay in testing. 38 SIFMA also contends it would be faster and
more cost efficient for municipal advisor professionals to take the Series 52 examination. 39
The MSRB does not agree with SIFMA’s assertion that developing a new qualification
examination would take an additional two to three years. 40 The MSRB stated that PQAC has
been working expeditiously in developing the Municipal Advisor Representative Qualification

34

Id. at 3-4.

35

Id. at 4.

36

Id.

37

See SIFMA Letter at 3.

38

Id. at 4.

39

Id. at 3.

40

See MSRB Response Letter No. 1 at 4.
8

Examination. 41 The MSRB also reiterated its position that it does not believe the Series 52
examination would test the basic competency of municipal advisor professionals. 42 The MSRB
believes that while it is hard to dispute that using an existing exam would be faster and less
costly, such an approach would fail to demonstrate basic competency of municipal advisor
professionals to engage in municipal advisory activities. 43 The MSRB stated that the costs,
timing, and efficiency of the proposed rule change should only be appropriately compared to
reasonable regulatory alternatives – a criterion the Series 52 examination does not meet. 44
SIFMA suggests that developing a separate test for municipal advisor professionals is an
inefficient process and unfairly burdens the large percentage of municipal advisor professionals
who are associated with municipal securities dealers. 45
The MSRB does not believe that such individuals would be unfairly burdened by a new
test. 46 To the contrary, the MSRB believes that failing to develop a separate test for municipal
advisor professionals could place individuals not associated with dealers at a competitive
disadvantage and could result in an undue burden on small municipal advisors. 47 The MSRB
stated that the market for municipal advisory services is separate and distinct from the market for
the services of municipal securities brokers and dealers and, as such, it is both appropriate and
41

Id.

42

Id.

43

Id. 4-5.

44

Id. at 5.

45

See SIFMA Letter at 5.

46

See MSRB Response Letter No. 1 at 5.

47

Id.
9

reasonable that all professionals providing municipal advisory services should be evaluated
according to identical criteria, regardless of the status of their employer. 48
Grandfathering Current Municipal Securities Representatives
SIFMA suggests that if the MSRB decides to continue with the development of a new
test for qualification as a municipal advisor representative, then associated persons currently
qualified as municipal securities representatives should be grandfathered in as municipal advisor
representatives, if they so choose. 49 SIFMA believes that this methodology would be consistent
with other major changes to qualifications examinations. 50
The MSRB responded by reiterating its view that grandfathering would be inconsistent
with the intent of Congress. 51 The MSRB believes that requiring municipal advisor professionals
to take and pass a basic qualification examination ensures that these individuals possess a
minimum level of understanding of the role and responsibilities of municipal advisors and the
applicable rules and regulations. 52 The MSRB stated that investors, municipal entities, and the
general public will be better served by a regulatory regime that requires all municipal advisor
professionals to pass the same basic competency test. 53

48

Id.

49

See SIFMA Letter at 5.

50

Id.

51

See MSRB Response Letter No. 1 at 5.

52

Id.

53

Id.
10

Economic Analysis
SIFMA believes that the cost-benefit analysis contained in in the Proposing Release was
inadequate. 54 SIFMA suggests that the MSRB conduct a full cost-benefit analysis of the
proposed rule change prior to its approval. 55
The MSRB responded by stating that it considered the costs and benefits of the proposed
rule change and even utilized the cost estimate per individual test taker provided by SIFMA in
determining the likely initial cost to the industry and the likely ongoing expense. 56 The MSRB
also refined its estimate of the initial cost based on the number of Form MA-Is filed with the
SEC by registered municipal advisors (as of January 20, 2015), which the MSRB stated is not
materially different from the cost estimate used in its economic analysis. 57 The MSRB believes
its economic analysis was sound and that no further analysis is warranted. 58
Continuing Education Requirement for Municipal Advisor Representatives
SIFMA suggests that the MSRB develop continuing education requirements for
municipal advisor representatives. 59 SIFMA believes this concern was not addressed by the
proposed rule change. 60

54

See SIFMA Letter at 6.

55

Id. at 2.

56

See MSRB Response Letter No. 1 at 6.

57

Id.

58

Id.

59

See SIFMA Letter at 6.

60

Id.
11

The MSRB responded by stating that such suggestion is not relevant to the proposed rule
change. 61 The MSRB noted that the Act requires the MSRB to provide continuing education
requirements for municipal advisors and it will likely consider rulemaking on this topic in the
near future. 62
PQAC Nomination Process
SIFMA and its members believe that the process for nomination to the MSRB’s PQAC
should be fully transparent and the members of PQAC should be listed on the MSRB’s
website. 63 Also, SIFMA further states that it is in the best interest of every industry member to
ensure that the test questions that are developed are fair, even-handed and suitable for a basic
competency examination. 64
The MSRB stated that it understands the concern raised by SIFMA and believes that its
examinations are developed in a fair, even-handed and suitable manner. 65 The MSRB stated it
contemplated publishing the names of PQAC members but is concerned that such transparency
will undermine the test development process. 66 The MSRB believes that it is not appropriate to
publish the names of PQAC members given the importance of confidentiality and the integrity of
the process. 67 The MSRB further stated that it contracts with an external testing professional to

61

See MSRB Response Letter No. 1 at 6.

62

Id.

63

See SIFMA Letter at 6.

64

Id. at 6-7.

65

See MSRB Response Letter No. 1 at 6.

66

Id.

67

Id. at 7.
12

ensure the overall integrity of the test development process, including the selection of PQAC
members, is fair and in accordance with accepted standards for professional test development. 68
Nevertheless, the MSRB stated that it will consider providing more information about the
selection process and the criteria used by the MSRB to select PQAC members. 69
2. ICI Letter
ICI recommends that the MSRB reconsider its current approach to develop only one
examination for representatives because such approach will result in use of an examination that
does not sufficiently test competencies relevant to the advisory representative’s business and is
inconsistent with the approach taken by other self-regulatory organizations. 70 ICI suggests that
the MSRB utilize at least two examinations – one for representatives of a municipal advisor
whose advisory activities are limited to municipal fund securities, and one for representatives
whose advice is limited to municipal securities other than municipal fund securities. 71
The MSRB responded by stating that it believes that individuals who engage in municipal
advisory activities regarding municipal fund securities should demonstrate knowledge of all of
the rules and regulations governing municipal advisors. 72 The MSRB stated that these rules and
regulations generally will apply to all municipal advisors, regardless of the product that is the

68

Id.

69

Id.

70

See ICI Letter at 2.

71

Id.

72

See MSRB Response Letter No. 1 at 7.
13

subject of the advice provided. 73 As such, the MSRB believes that all municipal advisors should
have knowledge of the regulatory framework and the basic obligations of municipal advisors. 74
ICI stated that it recognizes its recommendation of two examinations may impose
additional burdens, however, ICI believes such approach is consistent with the manner in which
self-regulatory organizations have long implemented examination requirements. 75 ICI further
stated that there is a long-standing self-regulatory organization practice of developing discrete
examinations based on the nature of the business conducted. 76
The MSRB responded by noting that self-regulatory organizations have developed a
number of qualification examinations; however, most of these examinations are focused on the
role of the investment professional, such as compliance officer (Series 14), investment adviser
(Series 65), operations professional (Series 99), research analyst (Series 86 and 87), equity trader
(Series 55), financial and operations principal (Series 27), general securities principal (Series
24), general securities sales supervisor (Series 9 and 10), and general securities representative
(Series 7). 77 The MSRB stated that for each of these examinations, a test taker may be required
to demonstrate knowledge of a variety of products, consistent with the role of the individual;
even where an examination is limited a candidate is expected to be familiar with a variety of
products. 78 Consequently, the MSRB believes its approach to the Municipal Advisor

73

Id.

74

Id.

75

See ICI Letter at 3-4.

76

Id.

77

See MSRB Response Letter at 7-8.

78

Id.
14

Representative Qualification Examination is consistent with its prior practice and the practice of
other self-regulatory organizations.79
3. Anonymous Letter
Anonymous Attorney believes that individuals who are Chartered Financial Analyst
(“CFA”) charterholders should be exempt from the proposed Municipal Advisor Representative
Qualification Examination requirement in the manner suggested by the CFA Institute (“CFAI”)
in the CFAI’s response to MSRB Regulatory Notice 2014-08. 80 CFAI proposed that the
examination requirement be constructed in a modular fashion with one component focusing on
the knowledge of business and the second component devoted to the rules and regulations of the
municipal securities market. 81 CFAI also requested that CFA charterholders be granted a waiver
from the examination component focusing on the knowledge of business. 82 Anonymous Attorney
believes that separating the examination into two modules can be undertaken with minimal
effort. 83 Anonymous Attorney also stated that the examination requirement is burdensome and
concluded that such examination could drive some CFA charterholders out of the municipal
advisory business. 84

79

Id. at 8.

80

See Anonymous Letter No. 1 at 1.

81

Id.

82

Id.

83

Id. at 2.

84

Id. at 3.
15

The MSRB stated that it recognizes the requirements established by CFAI for CFA
charterholders and understands that fixed income securities are covered on its examinations. 85
However, the MSRB explained that the Municipal Advisor Representative Qualification
Examination will focus on the role and responsibilities of municipal advisor professionals and
the rules and regulations governing their conduct. 86 The MSRB highlighted that the Municipal
Advisor Representative Qualification Examination will not solely test a candidate’s knowledge
of municipal securities. 87 In addition, the MSRB stated that Anonymous Attorney has not
provided any evidence that the CFA examinations (Levels I, II or III) test an individual’s
knowledge of the role and responsibilities of a municipal advisor. 88 The MSRB believes the
assertion that CFA charterholders may be driven out of the market because of the new test is
purely speculative. 89 The MSRB further stated that Anonymous Attorney offers no information
regarding the number of CFA charterholders that are engaged in municipal advisory activities or
why they would be in any different position than individuals who passed other qualification
examinations. 90 Given that the costs and time associated with receiving and maintaining a CFA
charter exceed any reasonable estimate of the costs to complete a new municipal advisor
examination, the MSRB stated its expectation that the new exam would add only marginally to a

85

See MSRB Response Letter No. 1 at 8.

86

Id.

87

Id.

88

Id.

89

Id.

90

Id.
16

CFA charterholder’s professional qualification expenses. 91 For the foregoing reasons, the MSRB
does not believe that a modular examination for municipal advisor professionals would be
appropriate. 92
4. NAMA Letter No. 1
NAMA supports the efforts of the MSRB to set professional qualification standards for
municipal advisor professionals. 93 NAMA believes the MSRB has taken the most cost-effective
approach at this time. 94 Additionally, NAMA supports the decision by the MSRB to have a
uniform competency requirement for all persons deemed to be municipal advisor representatives
regardless of whether such persons have passed other examinations (such as the Series 52 or
Series 7 examinations). 95 Consistent with the proposed rule change, NAMA does not believe that
the MSRB should grandfather individuals who have passed such examinations. 96 NAMA
suggests, however, that the MSRB continue to evaluate the feasibility and wisdom of
supplemental or targeted subject matter examinations. 97
The MSRB does not believe that a supplemental or targeted subject area examination
approach is appropriate. 98 The MSRB believes it has a demonstrated commitment to seeking

91

Id. at 8-9.

92

Id. at 9.

93

See NAMA Letter No. 1 at 1.

94

Id. at 2.

95

Id. at 1.

96

Id. at 2.

97

Id.

98

See MSRB Response Letter No. 1 at 9.
17

ways to improve regulatory efficiency generally and would be open to assessing alternative
approaches to the assessment of professional qualifications once the municipal advisor
regulatory framework is fully implemented. 99
5. Sanchez Letter and NAMA Letter No. 2
Sanchez expressed concern that Amendment No. 1 will effectively create an exemption
for municipal securities representatives who engage in financial advisory and consultant services
for issuers in connection with the issuance of municipal securities (the “subject activity”) from
having to pass the Municipal Advisor Representative Qualification Examination to qualify as
municipal advisor representatives. 100 Similarly, NAMA expressed concern that Amendment No.
1 would provide municipal securities representatives who engage in the subject activity an
exemption from having to pass the Municipal Advisor Representative Qualification Examination
because the subject activity would be considered municipal securities representative activity. 101
NAMA also stated that Amendment No. 1 expands the definition of municipal advisory activity,
as provided by the Act and Commission rules, because it appears to allow dealers and bank
dealers to engage in municipal advisory activity without proper registration. 102
The MSRB responded by clarifying that Amendment No. 1 would not have the effect of
limiting, and was not intended to limit, the applicability of the municipal advisor regulatory
regime, including MSRB rules governing the municipal advisory activities of municipal

99

Id.

100

See Sanchez Letter at 1.

101

See NAMA Letter No. 2 at 1.

102

Id. at 1-2.
18

advisors, or to alter the definition of municipal advisory activities. 103 The MSRB noted that the
determination of whether an individual is engaged in municipal advisory activities is based on
the scope of the individual’s activities, and not the individual’s status. 104 The MSRB stated that
due to such principle, a dealer and its associated persons could simultaneously be subject to
MSRB rules applicable to dealers and MSRB rules applicable to municipal advisors. 105
The MSRB stated that Amendment No. 1 would retain the current language in the MSRB
professional qualification rules to prevent any confusion regarding the application of MSRB
rules governing dealers to the financial advisory activities of municipal securities representatives
while MSRB rules governing municipal advisors are developed and implemented and until the
MSRB makes any future determinations regarding the application of such rules. 106 The MSRB
further stated that any individual engaged in or supervising municipal advisory activities must
comply with the professional qualification requirements for municipal advisor representatives,
which will include at a future date the taking and passing of the Municipal Advisor
Representative Qualification Examination.107 The MSRB also represented that Amendment No.
1 has no bearing on the definition of municipal advisory activities. 108

103

See MSRB Response Letter No. 2 at 2.

104

Id.

105

Id.

106

Id.

107

Id. at 2-3.

108

Id. at 3.
19

IV.

Discussion and Commission Findings
The Commission has carefully considered the proposed rule change, as modified by the

Amendments, as well as the comments received, and the responses by the MSRB to such
comments. The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the
requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to the MSRB.
In particular, the Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with
Section 15B(b)(2)(A) of the Act, which provides that the MSRB’s rules shall provide that no
municipal securities broker or municipal securities dealer shall effect any transaction in, or
induce or attempt to induce the purchase or sale of, any municipal security, and no broker,
dealer, municipal securities dealer, or municipal advisor shall provide advice to or on behalf of a
municipal entity or obligated person with respect to municipal financial products or the issuance
of municipal securities, unless … such municipal securities broker or municipal securities dealer
and every natural person associated with such municipal securities broker or municipal securities
dealer meet such standards of training, experience, competence, and such other qualifications as
the Board finds necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors
and municipal entities or obligated persons. 109 Section 15B(b)(2)(A) of the Act also provides
that, in connection with the definition and application of such standards, the MSRB may
appropriately classify municipal advisors and their associated persons, specify that all or any
portion of such standards shall be applicable to any such class, and require persons in any such
class to pass an examination regarding such standards of competence. 110 The Commission
believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 15B(b)(2)(A) of the Act
109

15 U.S.C. 78o-4(b)(2)(A).

110

Id.
20

because the proposed rule change requires individuals who engage in or supervise municipal
advisory activities to pass a professional qualification examination which is an established means
for determining the basic competency of individuals in a particular class. The Commission
believes that requiring prospective municipal advisor representatives to pass a basic qualification
examination will protect investors, municipal entities, and obligated persons by ensuring such
representatives have a basic understanding of the role of a municipal advisor representative and
the rules and regulations governing such individuals.
Additionally, Section 15B(b)(2)(L)(iii) of the Act provides that the MSRB’s rules shall
provide professional standards with respect to municipal advisors. 111 The Commission believes
that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 15B(b)(2)(L)(iii) of the Act because it
would establish professional standards for those individuals engaged in or supervising municipal
advisory activities by requiring such individuals to demonstrate a basic competency regarding
the role of municipal advisor representatives and the rules and regulations governing the conduct
of such persons.
Section 15B(b)(2)(L)(iv) of the Act requires that MSRB rules not impose a regulatory
burden on small municipal advisors that is not necessary or appropriate in the public interest and
for the protection of investors, municipal entities, and obligated persons, provided that there is
robust protection of investors against fraud. 112 The Commission believes that the proposed rule
change is consistent with Section 15B(b)(2)(L)(iv) of the Act. While the proposed rule change
would affect all municipal advisors, including small municipal advisors, it is a necessary and
appropriate regulatory burden in order to establish the baseline competence of those individuals
111

15 U.S.C. 78o-4(b)(2)(L)(iii).

112

15 U.S.C. 78o-4(b)(2)(L)(iv).
21

engaged in municipal advisory activities. Establishing a baseline competence is necessary for the
protection of investors, municipal entities, and obligated persons. The Commission also believes
such baseline competence is in the public interest because it promotes compliance with the rules
and regulations governing the conduct of municipal advisors.
In approving the proposed rule change, the Commission has considered the proposed rule
change’s impact on efficiency, competition, and capital formation. 113 The Commission believes
that the proposed rule change includes accommodations that help promote efficiency.
Specifically, the MSRB has provided a one-year grace period for passing the examination. As
noted by the MSRB, the grace period provides municipal advisor representatives with sufficient
time to study and take the examination without causing an undue disruption to the business of the
municipal advisor. The Commission does not believe that the proposed rule change would
impose any burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of
the Act since it would apply equally to all municipal advisor representatives who engage in
municipal advisory activities. Furthermore, the Commission believes that the potential burdens
created by the proposed rule change are to be likely outweighed by the benefits of establishing
baseline professional qualification standards and promoting compliance with the rules and
regulations governing the conduct of municipal advisors. The Commission has reviewed the
record for the proposed rule change and notes that the record does not contain any information to
indicate that the proposed rule change would have a negative effect on capital formation.
As noted above, the Commission received five comment letters on the proposed rule
change and two comment letters on Amendment No. 1. The Commission believes that the MSRB
considered carefully and responded adequately to the comments and concerns regarding the
113

15 U.S.C. 78c(f).
22

proposed rule change and Amendment No. 1. For the reasons noted above, including those
discussed in the Amendments and the MSRB Response Letters, the Commission believes that the
proposed rule change, as amended by the Amendments, is consistent with the Act.
V.

Solicitation of Comments on the Amendments
Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning

the foregoing, including whether the Amendments to the proposed rule change are consistent
with the Act. Comments may be submitted by any of the following methods:
Electronic comments:
•

Use the Commission's Internet comment form http://www.sec.gov/rules/sro.shtml; or

•

Send an e-mail to rule-comments@sec.gov. Please include File Number SR-MSRB2014-08 on the subject line.

Paper comments:
•

Send paper comments in triplicate to Secretary, Securities and Exchange
Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.

All submissions should refer to File Number SR-MSRB-2014-08. This file number should be
included on the subject line if e-mail is used. To help the Commission process and review your
comments more efficiently, please use only one method. The Commission will post all
comments on the Commission’s Internet website (http://www.sec.gov/rules/sro.shtml). Copies of
the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed
rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the
proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be
withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for
website viewing and printing in the Commission’s Public Reference Room, 100 F Street, NE,

23

Washington, DC 20549 on official business days between the hours of 10:00 am and 3:00 pm.
Copies of the filing also will be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the
MSRB. All comments received will be posted without change; the Commission does not edit
personal identifying information from submissions. You should submit only information that you
wish to make available publicly. All submissions should refer to File Number SR-MSRB-201408 and should be submitted on or before [insert date 21 days from publication in the Federal
Register].
VI.

Accelerated Approval of the Proposed Rule Change as Modified by the Amendments
The Commission finds good cause for approving the proposed rule change, as amended

by the Amendments, prior to the 30th day after the date of publication of notice in the Federal
Register. Amendment No. 1 partially amends the text of the proposed rule change to revise Rules
G-1(a)(ii)(B), G-3(a)(i)(A)(2), and G-3(b)(i)(B) by deleting the following clause: “except to the
extent a person must be qualified as a municipal advisor representative to perform such
services.” 114 Amendment No. 2 partially amends Amendment No. 1 to correct a technical error
in a quotation of rule text. 115
The MSRB believes Amendment No. 1 will clarify and ensure that municipal securities
representatives or principals who engage in the subject activity remain covered by applicable
dealer regulations until such time as the MSRB may determine that such activities are
appropriately covered by the developing municipal advisor regulatory framework. 116 The MSRB

114

See supra note 6.

115

See supra note 9.

116

See supra note 6.
24

believes Amendment No. 2 would make a mere technical correction. 117 The MSRB does not
believe Amendment No. 2 raises significant new issues or alters the substance of the proposed
rule change. 118
As previously noted, Sanchez and NAMA expressed concern that Amendment No. 1 will
effectively provide an exemption for currently qualified municipal securities representative from
having to take and pass the Municipal Advisor Representative Qualification Examination. 119
NAMA also believes that the Amendment No. 1 expands the definition of municipal advisory
activity because it appears to allow dealers and bank dealers to engage in municipal advisory
activity without proper registration. 120 The MSRB responded by clarifying that Amendment No.
1 would not have the effect of limiting, and was not intended to limit, the applicability of the
municipal advisor regulatory regime, including MSRB rules governing the municipal advisory
activities of municipal advisors, or to alter the definition of municipal advisory activities. 121
According to the MSRB, Amendment No. 1 would retain the current language in the MSRB
professional qualification rules to prevent any confusion regarding the application of MSRB
rules governing dealers to the financial advisory activities of municipal securities representatives
while MSRB rules governing municipal advisors are developed and implemented. 122

117

See supra note 9.

118

Id.

119

See supra note 7.

120

See NAMA Letter No. 2 at 1-2.

121

See MSRB Response Letter No. 2 at 2.

122

Id.
25

The Commission believes that the revisions in Amendment No. 1 are being made to
address the perception of a regulatory gap and are consistent with the purpose of the proposed
rule change. The Commission believes that the revision in Amendment No. 2 is being made to
correct a technical error. The Commission does not believe the revisions included in the
Amendments raise significant new issues or alter the substance of the proposed rule change
because the proposed rule change will retain the current rule language in Rules G-1(a)(ii)(B), G3(a)(i)(A)(2), and G-3(b)(i)(B). Accordingly, the Commission finds good cause for approving the
proposed rule change, as modified by the Amendments, on an accelerated basis, pursuant to
Section 19(b)(2) of the Act.
VII. Conclusion
IT IS THEREFORE ORDERED, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 123 that the
proposed rule change (SR-MSRB-2014-08), as modified by the Amendments, be, and hereby is,
approved.
For the Commission, pursuant to delegated authority. 124

Jill M. Peterson
Assistant Secretary

123

15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2).

124

17 CFR 200.30-3(a)(12).
26

