UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77756 / May 3, 2016
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) announced the temporary
suspension, pursuant to Section 12(k) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange
Act"), of trading in the securities of Solarbrook Water and Power Corp. ("SLRW"), of Cary,
North Carolina at 9:30 a.m. on Tuesday, May 3, 2016, and terminating at 11:59 p.m. on
Monday, May 16, 2016.
The Commission temporarily suspended trading in the securities of Solarbrook Water and Power
Corp. because of questions that have been raised about the accuracy and adequacy of publicly
disseminated information concerning, among other things, the company’s administrative
dissolution by the State of North Carolina on April 4, 2012. This order was entered pursuant to
Section 12(k) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”).
The Commission cautions broker-dealers, shareholders, and prospective purchasers that they
should carefully consider the foregoing information along with all other currently available
information and any information subsequently issued by the company.
Further, brokers and dealers should be alert to the fact that, pursuant to Rule 15c2-11 under the
Exchange Act, at the termination of the trading suspension, no quotation may be entered unless
and until they have strictly complied with all of the provisions of the rule. If any broker or dealer
has any questions as to whether or not he has complied with the rule, he should not enter any
quotation but immediately contact the staff in the Division of Trading and Markets, Office of
Interpretation and Guidance, at (202) 551-5777. If any broker or dealer is uncertain as to what is
required by Rule 15c2-11, he should refrain from entering quotations relating to Solarbrook
Water and Power Corp.’s (“SLRW”) securities until such time as he has familiarized himself
with the rule and is certain that all of its provisions have been met. If any broker or dealer enters
any quotation which is in violation of the rule, the Commission will consider the need for prompt
enforcement action.
If any broker-dealer or other person has any information which may relate to this matter, they
should immediately contact Yuri B. Zelinsky, Assistant Director, at 202-551-4769.

