ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17556
SEC Charges Nu Skin Enterprises, Inc. with FCPA Violations
September 20, 2016 – The Securities and Exchange Commission today announced that Provo,
Utah-based Nu Skin Enterprises, Inc. (Nu Skin US) has agreed to pay $765,688 to settle charges
that it violated the internal controls and books-and-records provisions of the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act (FCPA). The FCPA violations arose from a payment its Chinese subsidiary, Nu
Skin (China) Daily Use & Health Products Co. Ltd. (Nu Skin China), made to a charity to obtain
the influence of a high-ranking Chinese Communist party official to impact an on-going
provincial agency investigation.
An SEC investigation found that in 2013, Nu Skin China was under investigation by a provincial
branch of the Administration of Industry and Commerce (AIC) concerning Nu Skin China’s
compliance with the laws and regulations applicable to direct selling in China. Following the
AIC’s initial investigation, the AIC informed Nu Skin China that it had gathered enough
information to support violations against the company and it was threatening to impose an RMB
2.8 million fine which, at the time, equated approximately $431,088.
The SEC investigation also found that certain personnel of Nu Skin China made a decision to
request that the party official personally intervene in the AIC matter in return for Nu Skin China
making an RMB 1 million donation to a charity identified by the party official. The party official
was associated with the entity that was responsible for establishing the charity in the province.
Further, the provincial head of the AIC had previously reported to the party official. Following
the donation ceremony, a Nu Skin China employee suggested contacting the party official to
request that Nu Skin China not be named or fined by the AIC and internal emails reflected that
Nu Skin China believed that such action was “crucial for us to settle this . . . peacefully.” Two
days later, Nu Skin China received notice of the AIC’s final decision in which the company was
neither charged nor fined.
The SEC’s order finds that Nu Skin US violated Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and (B) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934. Without admitting or denying the findings, Nu Skin US agreed to a
cease-and-desist order and to pay disgorgement of $431,088, prejudgment interest of $34,600,
and a civil money penalty in the amount of $300,000.
In determining to accept the offer, the SEC considered cooperation that Nu Skin US afforded to
the SEC staff and the remedial acts undertaken by Nu Skin US.
The SEC’s investigation was conducted by Kimberly Greer and Lee Robinson of the Denver
Regional Office, and supervised by Ian Karpel.
See also:

Order

