UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78725 / August 30, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17516
In the Matter of

ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

ANGELIQUE DE MAISON,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Angelique de
Maison (“Respondent” or “de Maison”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over her and the subject matter of these
proceedings and the findings contained in paragraph III.2 below, which are admitted, Respondent
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions
(“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
From in or about October 2009 into 2012, de Maison, who was not registered with
the Commission as a broker or dealer, continuously solicited investments in unregistered securities

issued by Kensington Leasing Ltd. (“Kensington Leasing”) and Casablanca Mining Ltd.
(“Casablanca”), issuers with common stock registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange
Act that were subject to Exchange Act reporting obligations pursuant to Section 13(a). De Maison,
45 years old, resides in Fergus Falls, Minnesota.
Respondent participated in an offering of Kensington Leasing stock, which was a
penny stock.
2.
On December 23, 2015, a final judgment was entered by consent against
Respondent, permanently enjoining her from future violations of Sections 5, 17(a)(1), and 17(a)(3)
of the Securities Act of 1933, and Sections 10(b), 15(a)(1), and 16(a) of the Exchange Act and
Rule 10b-5 thereunder in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Jason
Cope et al., Civil Action Number 14 Civ. 7575, in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of New York.
3.
The Commission’s Amended Complaint alleged, inter alia, that de Maison
defrauded investors in Gepco Ltd. (“Gepco”) by making a materially misleading statement in a
press release issued by Gepco in January 2014. The Amended Complaint also alleged that de
Maison continuously sold unregistered securities issued by Kensington Leasing and Casablanca to
investors without being registered with the Commission as a broker or dealer.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent de Maison’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act,
that Respondent de Maison be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer,
investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally
recognized statistical rating organization; and
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent de Maison be, and hereby is
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder,
consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for
purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the
purchase or sale of any penny stock.

2

Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

