UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-16389
______________________________
:
In the Matter of
:
:
:
VCAP Securities, LLC, and
:
Brett Thomas Graham,
:
:
Respondent.
:
:
:
:

PROPOSED PLAN OF DISTRIBUTION

Background
This proposed plan of distribution (the “Distribution Plan”) provides a methodology for
distributing the disgorgement, prejudgment interest and civil money penalty paid by VCAP
Securities, LLC (“VCAP”) and Brett Thomas Graham (“Graham”) (collectively, “Respondents”) in
settlement of this administrative proceeding.
On February 19, 2015, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission” or
“SEC”) issued an Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Pursuant to
Sections 15(b)(4), 15(b)(6), and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Section 203(f) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940,
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”)
against the Respondents (Exchange Act Rel. No. 74305 (February 19, 2015)). The Commission
determined that in 2012, VCAP and Graham, the CEO of VCAP, perpetrated a scheme to acquire
certain securities from auctions of collateralized debt obligations (“CDOs”) that VCAP was
conducting as a liquidation agent. During the course of this conduct, Graham and VCAP made
material misrepresentations to the trustees of the various CDOs that VCAP and its affiliates would
not bid in the auctions and would not misuse confidential information and/or bidding information
afforded to VCAP as the liquidation agent. In actuality, Graham improperly used the confidential
bidding information to benefit funds managed by Vertical Capital, LLC (“Vertical”), VCAP’s
affiliated investment adviser. Specifically, Graham arranged for a separate broker-dealer to bid on
bonds Graham wanted for Vertical managed funds, at prices slightly higher than the highest bid
from other participants. After winning the bonds in the auction, the broker-dealer would
immediately sell the bonds to the Vertical funds at a small markup. In addition, in one auction,
Graham improperly used confidential bidding information to help a non-affiliated bidder to obtain a
bond for half of what the bidder was willing to pay. Therefore, the trustee received half as much
in proceeds for that bond as it would have otherwise.

As a result of this conduct, the Commission found that the Respondents willfully violated
Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder. The Commission
ordered VCAP to pay disgorgement of $1,064,555 and prejudgment interest of $85,044, and
Graham to pay disgorgement of $118,284, prejudgment interest of $9,449, and a civil money
penalty of $200,000. In addition, the Commission created a fair fund for the monies paid by
Respondents pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended by the
Dodd-Frank Act.
On or about March 2, 2015, the Respondents paid a total of $1,477,332.00 pursuant to the
Order (the “Fair Fund”). The Fair Fund is currently deposited in an interest bearing account at the
United States Department of the Treasury. It is not anticipated that the Fair Fund will receive
additional funds other than accrued interest. The assets of the Fair Fund are subject to the
continuing jurisdiction and control of the Commission. The Distribution Plan is subject to approval
by the Commission, and the Commission retains jurisdiction over implementation of the
Distribution Plan.
Administration of the Distribution Plan
1.
Purpose. The Distribution Plan has been developed pursuant to the Order and the
SEC’s Rules on Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans, 17 C.F.R. § 201.1100, et seq. (the “Rules”).
The purpose of the Distribution Plan is to distribute the Fair Fund to the five CDO trusts harmed by
Respondents’ misconduct (also referred to as the “Harmed Parties”).
2.
Fund Administrator. Nancy Chase Burton, a Supervisory Assistant Chief Litigation
Counsel, in the Division of Enforcement, is proposed as the fund administrator for the Distribution
Plan (“Fund Administrator”). As a Commission employee, the Fund Administrator shall receive no
compensation, other than her regular salary as a Commission employee, for her services in
administering the Fair Fund. In accordance with Rule 1105(c), no bond is required since the Fund
Administrator is a Commission employee.
The Fund Administrator will be responsible for, among other things: overseeing the
administration of the Fair Fund, obtaining accurate mailing information for the eligible Harmed
Parties, preparing accountings, cooperating with the Tax Administrator in providing the information
necessary to accomplish income tax compliance, and distributing money from the Fair Fund in
accordance with this Distribution Plan.
3.
Tax Administrator. The Commission has appointed Damasco & Associates LLP as
the Tax Administrator for the Fair Fund (the “Tax Administrator”) (Exchange Act Rel. No. 74508
(March 13, 2015)). The Fund Administrator will cooperate with the Tax Administrator in providing
information necessary to accomplish the income tax compliance, ruling and advice work assigned to
the Tax Administrator by the Commission. All taxes and the fees and expenses of the Tax
Administrator shall be paid from the Fair Fund.

2

4.
Qualified Settlement Fund. The Fair Fund constitutes a Qualified Settlement Fund
(“QSF”) under Section 468B(g) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. § 468B(g), and related
regulations, 26 C.F.R. §§ 1.468B-1 through 1.468B-5.
Distribution Plan Procedures
5.
No Claims Process. The Commission staff has identified all Harmed Parties and has
calculated the payment due to each of them. The Fair Fund is not being distributed according to a
claims-made process, so the procedures for providing notice and for making and approving claims
are not applicable.
6.
Methodology for Determining Distribution Amounts/Minimum Distribution. The
amount of total disgorgement that the Commission ordered was equal to the sum of fees collected
by VCAP for serving as liquidation agent in five separate CDO auctions conducted in 2012.
Accordingly, each CDO trust will receive the amount of liquidation agent fees it paid to VCAP
through the respective trustees. In addition, each CDO trust will receive interest on the fees paid.
The interest will be determined pursuant to the Federal short term rate (as determined by the
Internal Revenue Service pursuant to 26 US Section 6621(b)) and will be calculated from the fee
invoice date for each Harmed Party through the date the Distribution Plan is approved. The
Commission staff understands that three of the five CDO trusts still exist, and will distribute the
corresponding share of the Fair Fund to each of the trustees for the three trusts. In addition, the
Commission staff understands that two of the trusts have been dissolved. For the two dissolved
trusts, the staff has identified the senior noteholders that received the proceeds of the trusts at the
time of dissolution. The share of the Fair Fund for these two trusts will be distributed to those
senior noteholders.
7.
Locating and Notifying the Harmed Parties. The Commission staff has already
identified the Harmed Parties and has calculated the distribution amount to be distributed to each
Harmed Party. The Fund Administrator will provide each Harmed Party with (a) notification of the
Distribution Plan, (b) the proposed amount of the Fair Fund to be paid to the Harmed Party, and (c)
a description of the methodology used to calculate the distribution allocation. The Fund
Administrator will provide such notice by United States Postal Service and will request at that time
from the Harmed Party information necessary to accomplish the distribution, including confirmation
of (i) social security and tax identification number(s), (ii) the payment address, and (iii) contact
information. If the Harmed Party fails to respond to such notice within twenty-one (21) days from
the mailing of the notice, the Fund Administrator will send a second written notice by mail. If the
Harmed Party fails to respond to the second notice within twenty-one (21) days, the Fund
Administrator will make two attempts to contact the Harmed Party telephonically. If an individual
or entity believes it is a Harmed Party but has not received notice in the mail of their status, the
individual or entity may contact the Fund Administrator in writing at the United States Securities
and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549-5631 within 60 days
after Distribution Plan approval to confirm the individual or entity’s eligibility as a Harmed
Party. Following an investigation of the inquiry, including a review of any supporting
documentation, the Fund Administrator shall notify in writing the individual or entity submitting
3

the inquiry of the Fund Administrator’s resolution as to their status as a Harmed Party and her
decision will be final.
8.
Checks/Electronic Transfers. The Fund Administrator will make a payment to each
of the Harmed Parties. The Fund Administrator may elect to make payment of any distribution
amount to a Harmed Party by check or electronic transfer. The payment will be preceded by or
accompanied with a communication that includes, as appropriate: (a) a statement characterizing the
distribution; (b) a description of the tax information reporting and other related tax matters; (c) a
statement that checks will be void (non-negotiable) after one year; and (d) the name of a person to
contact with questions concerning the distribution. Distribution checks, on their face, or in the
accompanying communication will clearly indicate that the money is being distributed from a Fair
Fund established by the Commission pursuant to the Order in this case. Checks that are not
negotiated prior to the stale date shall be voided. Electronic payments will be made only to cash
equivalent accounts (e.g., checking or savings accounts).
9.
Implementation of the Fair Fund. The disbursement to the Harmed Parties will be
implemented through the United States Department of the Treasury’s Bureau of the Fiscal
Service (“BFS”), by electronically transferring funds through the Automated Clearing House
(“ACH”) or mailing a check to the payee. The Fund Administrator will compile the information
necessary to make disbursements into a specified file format and submit this file to the
appropriate Commission staff. Upon receipt of the payment file, the Commission staff will
obtain authorization from the Commission to disburse pursuant to Commission Rule 1101(b)(6).
When the file is approved and the order to disburse is entered, the Commission will transmit the
payment file to BFS for the transfer of funds.
10.
Returned Checks/Electronic Transfer Procedures. As soon as practicable, upon
BFS’s receipt of the payment file, payments will be made to Harmed Parties. The Fund
Administrator will make best efforts to research and reconcile all errors that result in non-delivery
and shall submit a supplemental file for payment of the returned items. The Fund Administrator
will work with Commission staff to account for all payments. In the event that any distribution is in
the form of a paper check in lieu of an electronic transfer, each check will state on its face that it is
valid for one year.
11.
Accounting. Once all payments are disbursed, the Fund Administrator will submit
a final accounting on the standardized accounting form provided by the Commission staff for
approval by the Commission prior to termination of the Fair Fund and discharge of the Fund
Administrator.
12.
Undisbursed Amounts. A residual account within the Fair Fund is established for
any amounts remaining after all assets have been distributed. The residual account may include
funds reserved for future taxes and related expenses, distributions from checks that have not been
cashed, from checks that were not delivered or from funds returned to the Fund Administrator,
tax refunds for overpayment or for waiver of IRS penalties. All undistributed funds in the
4

residual account will be transferred to the U.S. Treasury after the final accounting is approved by
the Commission.
13.
Termination of the Disgorgement Fund. Upon distribution of the Fair Fund, the
Fund Administrator shall make arrangement for the final payment of taxes and Tax Administrator
fees and expenses, and shall submit a final accounting to the Commission. The Fair Fund shall be
eligible for termination, and the Fund Administrator shall be discharged, after all of the following
have occurred: (a) a final accounting, in an SEC standard accounting format provided by the staff,
has been submitted by the Fund Administrator for approval, and has been approved, by the
Commission, and (b) all taxes, fees and expenses have been paid. After the Commission has
approved the final accounting, the staff shall seek an order from the Commission to approve the
transfer of any amount remaining in the Fair Fund to the U.S. Treasury, and to terminate the Fair
Fund and discharge the Fund Administrator.
14.
Fees and Expenses of Administration. Fees and other expenses of administering the
Fair Fund shall be paid first from the interest earned on the funds, and if the interest is not sufficient,
then from the corpus.
15.
Amendments. The Fund Administrator shall take reasonable and appropriate steps
to distribute the Fair Fund according to the Distribution Plan. Where the Fund Administrator
deems necessary, after agreement with Commission staff, the Fund Administrator may
implement immaterial changes to the Distribution Plan to effectuate its general purposes. If a
change is deemed material by Commission staff, Commission approval is required prior to
implementation by amending the Distribution Plan, which may be done upon the motion of any
party, the Fund Administrator, or upon the Commission’s own motion.
16.
Deadline Extensions. The Fund Administrator may extend any procedural deadline
contained in the Distribution Plan for good cause shown.
Notice of Proposed Distribution Plan
17.
The Notice of the Proposed Plan of Distribution and Opportunity for Comment
(“Notice”) will be published in the SEC Docket and on the Commission’s website at
http://www.sec.gov/litigation/fairfundlist.htm. Any person wishing to comment on the Plan must
do so in writing by submitting their comments to the Commission within thirty (30) days of the
date of the Notice: (a) to the Office of the Secretary, United States Securities and Exchange
Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-1090; (b) by using the Commission’s
Internet comment form (http://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin.shtml); or (c) by sending an email
to rule-comments@sec.gov. Comments submitted by email or via the Commission’s website
should include “Administrative Proceeding File No. 3-16389” in the subject line. Comments
received will be publicly available. Persons should only submit comments that they wish to
make publicly available.

5

