FORM CA-1
FORM FOR REGISTRATION OR FOR EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION
AS A CLEARING AGENCY AND FOR AMENDMENT TO REGISTRATION
AS A CLEARING AGENCY PURSUANT TO THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
GENERAL
Form CA-I is to be used to apply for registration or for exemption from registration as a clearing agency and to amend
regi stration as a clearing agency with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 17 A of the Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934. Read all instructions before preparing the Form. Please type or print all responses.
Banque Centrale de Compensation
(Exact name of regi strant as specified in c harter)

18 rue du Quatre Septembre 75002 Paris FRANCE
(Address of registrant's principal place of business)
Th is Form is filed as:

171
tJ

D

a regis trat ion
a request for exemption from registration
an amendment

If filed as a registration, does registrant request the Com mi ssion to consider grant ing regis tration in accordance with paragraph
(c)( l ) of Rul e 17Ab2- l under the Act? ............................................................................................ ..... ........ ......... .. [Z)Yes O No

EXECUTION
The Regi strant submitting this Form, its schedules, its exh ibits and its attachments and the person by whom it is executed
represent hereby that all information contained herein is true, current and complete. Submission of any amendment after regi stration
has become effective represents that items 1-3 and any schedul es, exh ibits and attachments rel ated to items 1-3 remain true, current
and complete as previous ly submitted.
Registrant agrees and consents that the notice of any proceedings under Sections 17 A or 19 of the Act invol ving registrant may
be given by sending s uch notice by registered or certified mail or confirmed telegram to the person named, and at the addres s given,
in resp onse to item 2.
Dated the

4

day of

July

2016

LCH SA

Chief Executive Officer
(Title)
ATTENTION: Intentional misstatem ents or omi ssions of fact constitute Federal Crim inal Violations
(See 18 U.S.C. 1001and15 U.S.C. 78ff(a))

GENERAL INFORMATION
I.

Exact name, principal business address, mailing address (if d ifferent) and telephone number of registrant:

69203248500108

.
Banque Centrale de Compensation
.
.
Nam e of regi strant :
IRS Emp loyee ldent1ficat1 on No. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ __ _

. h c1eanng
. agency act1v1t1es
. . . are con d ucte d , 1'fd'fti
LCH SA
Name under wh1c
1 erent: - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - -- -

N/A
If name of registrant is hereby amended, state nam e under which registered previously : _
_ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __
3

If name under which clearing agency activities are conducted is hereby amended, state name given previously:

LCH.Clearnet SA

Address of principa l place of business:
18 rue du Quatre Septembre

Paris

Number and Street

France

75002

City

State

Zip Code

City

State

Zip Code

Mailing address, if different:
Number and Street

Telephone Number: _ _ _ _ _ __
Telephone Number

Area Code

2.

Name, titl e, mai ling address and telephone number of person in charge of registrant' s clearing agency activities:

Christophe HEMON

Chief Executive Officer

Name

Title

18 rue du Quatre Septembre

Paris

Telephone Number: _o_o3_3_ _ _ __

State

75002

Zip Code

170376500

Telephone Number

Area Code

3.

France

City

Number and Street

(a) Ifregistrant is a corporation or a national association: state date on which registrant was incorporated or organized and jurisdiction
in which incorporated or under which organized:
Date:

- ------------ - --- -

Juri sdiction: - - - - - - - -- -- - -- - - -- -- -

(b) If registrant is not a corporation or a nationa l association, describe on Schedule A the form of organization under which
registrant conducts its business and identify the jurisd iction in whi ch registrant is organized.
4.

Does regi strant have any arrangement w ith any other person under which, with respect to registrant's clearing agency activities,
such other person processes, keeps, transmits or maintains any securities, funds, records or accounts ofregistrant or regi strant' s
participants re lating to clearing agency activi ties? ..... ........................ .......... ......................... !Z]Yes O No

If answer is ··yes,'' furnish &n Schedule A , as to each such arrangement, the fu ll name and principal business address of the other
person and a brief summary of each such arrangement.
5.

(a) With respect to clearing agency acti vities, please provide the following information regarding the type of insurance carried or
provided:
'Type of In surance
J. Blanket Bo~d
2. ~idelity
..
3. Errors and Ommiss ions
' 4~fv!a!!Pol~~Y _ _ _ _ _ __
' 5. Air Courier
6. Los t In strument
- -·
~._Other (please~ peci_fy o~ ~~edu_l~AJ

1

Yes

Amount ofCo\erage Amount ofDeductiblc 1
•$ -. · - - -- ,$

No

I See Sch A '

$

See Sch A

$

See SchA

x
x
x

t

$

----- --- I

-~-~--j
- - -l ~--- - - - _ _J

-

-

.$·

$ ______
$
.$
'
-- - - - . - - · ~----_J
$
$
I
$
- - - _._$ - -~- - - ---'

x

(b) If any of registrant's cleari ng activities are not covered by insurance, has prO\ ision been made for self-insurance?
................................................................. ..... ............................. ......................................................... Oves[Z]No
If yes, indicate on Schedule A the provisions made for self-i nsurance (e.g., accounting reserve or funded reserve) and the
amount thereof.
(c) (i) As a result of registrant's c learing agency activities, is registrant exposed to loss ifa pa rticipant falls to perform its
obligations to the clearing agency, any other participant or any other person? ........ ............................ [2]Yes 0No
(ii) ff··yes," d esc ribe on Sched ule A the operational, organizational or other ru les, procedures or practices (citing rules
if applicab le) w hi c h result in registrant ·s exposure to loss.

4

(d) (i) Does the registrant maintain a clearing or participants' fu nd, mark to the market open obligations involving the
purchase or sale of securities or otherw ise req uired participants to protect registrant against losses to which it may be
exposed as a result ofa participant's failure to perform its obligations to the clearing agency. any other participant or
any other pe rson?............... .............. ............................... ... .......... .. ... ... ............. ...... .. ...... .......... [{}Yes 0 No
(ii) lf"yes." describe on Schedu le A the operational. organizational or other rules, procedures or practices (citing ru les
if app licable) wh ich are designed to protect registrant against any such losses.
6.

(a) Is registrant audited by an independent accountant?....... .................. ..................... ... ......................................

[{]Yes

~o

(b) Jfregistrant is audited by an independent accountant, does the aud it include a review of internal controls related to clearing
agency activit ies?.. .... .... ................ ..... ......... ... ..... .. ........ ..... ............. ......... ...... .. ..... ..... ............. ..... ...... . [Z)YeQ No
( c) Fiscal year-end of registrant
7.

_3_1 _ _ _.' December

(Day,"Month)

(a) What are registrant's internal policies and procedures for reconci ling differences (including long and short stock record
differences and di vidend diffe rences) in its clearing agency acti,·i ties? (Describe on Schedule A.)
(b) State, as of September 30, 1975, the dollar amount of the potential exposure of registrant, if any, as a result of differences
(without offsetting long differences against short differences and without offsetting any suspense account items) in its
cl earing agency activi ties not reso lved after 20 business days. $ _$_0._00_ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

8.

(a) How many employees does registrant have engaged in clearing agency activities?
(b) How many years has registrant performed c learing agency activit ies?

9.
(a)

24.3pennanent employees are engaged in cos dearing activities

CDS Clearing Service was started in March 2010

~ r;~l~~~~~:~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~.~.~-~~-~i-~. i.~i ~s. s.u.~~-~-~'..~~ -~~~~'.a.~i-~~ .b1... ~~-~--~~-~-~r-~~-~~~-~-~~-~~~~~-~~-~-~. '..~~ -~~~·~·i·s~. ionl{Jb~:slJ~t~

If yes, specify the name of the agency, state or political subdivision:

Commodity and Futures Trading Association
(b) Have the registrant' s clearin g agency acti vities been the subject of periodi c examinations by any federa l agency other than
the Commission or by any state or political subdivision?..... ....... ..... ... .......................................... ...... . [{] Yes [)-J o
If yes, specify the name of the agency, state or political subdivision:

Commodity and Futures Trading Association

·

SC H E DULE A OF FORM CA-I
l.

2.

Full name of Registrant as stated in Item I of Form CA- 1

Banque Centrale de Compensation
Item of Form
(Identify)

Response

5

EXHIBITS-BUSINESS ORGANIZATION
I 0. List in Exhibit A any person who either directly or indirectly, through agreement or otherwise, may control or direct the
management or policies ofregistrant. For each person listed, provide the full name and address and attach a copy of each written
agreement or, ifthe agreements are unwritten, describe th e agreement or arrangement through which such person exercises or
may exercise such control or direction.
11. List in Exhibit B the registrant's corporate officers. trust officers, managers or other persons occup) ing a sim ilar statu s or
perform ing si milar fun ctions who supervise, or are direc tly responsible for the conduct of, registrant's clearing agency
activities, indicating for each:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)

Name
Ti tle
Area of responsibility
A brief account of the business experience during the last five (5) years.

12. Attach as Exhi bi t C narrative and graphic descriptions of registrant' s organ izational structure. If clearing agency activities are
conducted primarily by a division, subdi vision, or other segrega ble entity within the registrant corporation or organization,
identify the relationship of such en tity to the registrant's overall organizational structure and limit the descriptions to the
division, subd ivision or other segregab le entity which performs clearing agency activities.
13. Attach as Exhibit D a li st of persons who directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, are controlled by, or are
under common control with, the clearing agency and indicate the nature of the control relationship.
14. Attach as Exhibi t Ea copy of the currently effective constitution, articles of incorporation or association, by-laws, rules,
procedures and instruments corresponding thereto, of the registrant and a complete list of all dues, fees and other charges
imposed by registrant for its clearing agency act ivities.
15. Attach as Exhibit Fa brief description of any material pending legal proceeding, other than ord inary and routine litigation
inci denta l to the business, to which the registrant or any of its s ubsidiaries is a party or to which any of its or their property is
the s ubject. Include the name of the court or agency in which the proceeding is pending, the date instituted, and the principal
parties thereto, a description of the factual basis alleged to underlie th e proceeding and the reli ef sought. Include similar
information as to any such proceeding known to be contemp lated by governmental agencies.
16. Attach as Exhib it G copies of all contracts with any national securities exchange, national securities association or clearing
agency or securities market for which the registrant acts as a clearing agency or performs clearing agency functions.

EXHIBITS-FINANCIAL INFORMATION
17. Attach as Exhibit Ha balance sheet and statement of income and expenses, and all notes or schedules thereto ofregistrant, as
of registrant"s most recent fis cal year for which such information is ava ilable, certified by an independent accountant. (If
certified financial information is not available, uncertified financial information should be sub mitted).
18 . Atta ch as Exhibit I the addresses of all offices in which clearing agency activities are performed by registrant, or for registrant
by any person listed in response to item 4, and identify the nature of the clearing activities performed in each office listed.

EXHIBITS- OPERATIONAL CAPACITY
19. Attach as Exhibit J narrati\·e descriptions of each sen·ice or function performed by the registrant.
20. Attach as Exhibit Ka description of the measures or procedures employed by registrant to provide for the security of any system
which performs the functions of a cleari ng agency. Include a general description of any operational safeguards designed to
prevent unauthorized access to the system (including unauthorized input or retrieval of information for which the primary record
source is not hard copy). Identify any instances within the past year in whi ch the described security measures or safeguards failed
to prevent unauthorized access to the system and describe any measures taken to prevent a recurrence of any such incident.
Describe also any measures used to verify the accuracy of information received or disseminated by the system.
21. Attach as Exhib it L a description of the measures or procedures employed by registrant to provide for the safeguarding of
securities and funds in its custody or control. Identify any instances within the past year in which the described security measures
or safeguards failed to prevent any unauthorized access to securities or funds in possession ofregistrant and any measures taken
to prevent a recurrence of any such incident.
22. If clearing agency functions are performed by automated faci lit ies or systems, attach as Exhibit Ma description of all backup
systems or s ubsystems which are designed to prevent interruptions in the performance of any function as a resu lt of technical
or other ma lfun ct ion. Include backups for input or output links to the system and precautions with respect to malfunctions in
any areas external to the system.

6

EXHIBITS-ACCESS TO SERVICES
23. Attach as Exhibit Na list of the persons who currently participate. or who have applied for participation. in registrant ·s clearing
agency activities (if registrant performs more than one activity, a columnar presentation may be utilized).
24. Attach as Exh ibit 0 a description of any specifications, qualifi cations, or other criteria which limit, are interpreted to limit, or
have the effect of limit ing access to, or use of, any clearing agency service furnished by the registrant and state the reasons for
imposing such specifications, qualifications, or other criteria.
25. Attach as Exhibit P copies of any form of contracts go verning the terms on which persons may subscribe to c learing agency
services provided by the registrant.
26. Attach as Exhibit

Q a schedule of any prices, rates or fees fixed by registrant for services rendered by its participants.

27. Attach as Exhibit Ra schedule of any prohibitions or lim itations imposed by the clearing agency on access by any person to
services offered by any part icipant.

EXHIBIT-APPLICATION FOR EXEMPTION
28. If this is an application for an exemption from registration as a clearing agency, attach as Exhibit Sa statement demonstrating
why the granting of an exemption from registration as a clearing agency would be consistent with the public interest, the
protection of investors and the purposes of Section 17 A of the Act, including the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement
of securities transactions and the safeguarding of securities and funds.

7

SCHEDULE A OF FORM CA-1

1. Full name of Registrant as stated in Item 1 of Form CA-1: Banque Centrale
de Compensation.
2. Additional Responses
Question 3(b) : If registrant is not a corporation or a national association,
describe on Schedule A the form of organization under which registrant
conducts its business and identify the jurisdiction in which registrant is
organized.
LCH SA is incorporated in France as a limited company (societe anonyme) with the
legal name Banque Centrale de Compensation.
Question 4: Does registrant have any arrangement with any other person under
which, with respect to registrant's clearing agency activities, such other person
processes, keeps, transmits or maintains any securities, funds, records or
accounts of registrant or registrant's participants relating to clearing agency
activities?
0Yes 0 No
If answer is "yes," furnish on Schedule A, as to each such arrangement, the

full name and p.-incipal business address of the other person and a brief
summary of each such arrangement.
Payment and Settlement Systems
Margin payments, fees, CDS Default Fund contributions and EUR denominated
product-related payments relating to CDS clearing (e.g., variation margin upfront
premiums and coupon payments) are processed in central bank funds through the
TARGET 2 settlement system, which is operated by European central banks,
including Banque de France. As a regulated credit institution in France, LCH SA
is a direct participant in the TARGET 2 system.
USO denominated product-related payments related to CDS clearing are
processed through Bank of New York Mellon.
Record Keeping
All cleared CDS trades are booked in the Trade Information Warehouse ("TIW")
managed by DTCC. The TIW provides a central registry for electronic booking
of CDS trades. It also provides processing for various trade lifecycle events
affecting CDS trades . Trade records in LCH SA' s clearing system and the TIW

LCH SA_Form CA l_Application_Schedule A

are reconciled on a daily basis to ensure they are aligned. In case of any
discrepancy, LCH SA ' s version of the trade is the legal record.

Regulatory Reporting
A 11 cleared trades are reported to UnaVista for the purpose of EMIR Trade
Repository reporting and to the G lobal Trade Repository manage by DTCC for
the purpose of CFTC SOR reporting.

Daily Pricing
LCH SA requires dail y pricing for all cleared C DS transactions in order to
calculate its margin requirements. LCH SA has entered into an agreement w ith
Markit pursuant to which Markit prov ides LCH SA with composite prices on a
daily basis . Markit has implemented an end-of-day dealer price contributio n
system to provide daily pricing to LCH SA for purposes of calculating margin.
Markit also is the provider of ·'RED" codes, which are used to identify the CDS
products in The Trade Information Warehouse managed by DTCC and in LCH
SA 's clearing system.

Information Technology
The outsourcing relationship between Atos and LCH SA is governed by the New
Framework Agreement ('"NFA"), which was s igned on June 30, 2005. This
agreement was designed in such a way as to structure the relationship between
Atos and LCH SA in the form of obligations of performance which evolve as
amendments are signed. T here has been a number of modifications to this
agreement and the currently enforceable agreement is the New Fram ework
Agreement 3 ("NFA3") entered into between Atos and LCH SA in 20 14. T he
scope of services provided by Atos is limited to manag ing infrastructure,
production and data centers, software applications, maintenance and
develo pment. Service Level Agreements and financial rules allowing for
potential penalties have been put in place on the basis of key performance
indicators . Best practices in respect of IT services have been included, and
governance of the agreement, including its various clauses, is regularly revised
and improved. There are specific c lauses covering contingency planning,
security policy and audits.
An ad hoc governance model is included in the Atos service agreement, which is
based on a structure of steering and monitoring committees.

Intra-Group Service Agreement
Pursuant to a Framework Intra-Group Services Agreement dated October 1,
2007, as late ly amended in 2014, entered into among LCH SA, LCH Group
Limited, LCH Limited, LCH LLC and LCH (Luxembourg) S.A.R.L (the "IntraGroup Service Agreement") and supplemented by subsequent Service
Agreements entered into between LCH Limited and LCH SA, LCH Limited
2
LCH SA_Form CA l_ Application_Schedule A

provides LCH SA with certain services that fat I outside the scope of the N F A
with Atos, including "office automation services," meaning IT services for all
LCH SA headquarters sites such as office desktop services, network services,
print services and support services telephony services, blackberry services,
authentication services and remote access services, email infrastructure. file
service, intranet services, and visio-conferencing services. LCH Limited also
provides LCH SA with " hosted applications," including resi lient server
infrastructure, which includes back-up infrastructure, infrastructure maintenance,
and disaster recovery functions , as well as operation, administration and support
of the hosted applications notably but not exclusively used for accounting,
payroll , database for legal contracts, documentation management. LCH Limited
also provides LCH SA with "Technical Specified Services," including resilient
server infrastructure, which includes back-up infrastructure, infrastructure
maintenance, and disaster recovery functions, as well as operation, administrat ion
and support of the Technical Specified applications, which are software relating
to clearing services. In particular, LCH Limited has established network links
between its data centers and LCH SA headquarters to continue delivering such
services when LCH SA has activated its business continuity/disaster recovery
procedures.
Pursuant to a Technology Services Agreement entered into in December 20 I 5
between LSEG Business Services Limited and LCH SA and related Order Form,
LSEG Business Services Limited took over from LCH Limited on 1 January
20 I 6 the provision of certain IT services to LCH SA, namely E nd User
Computing, Networks, Service Desk, Third Party Applications, IT Support Tools
and then Technical Specified Services from I April 2016.
Contact information for each of the entities involved in the arrangements
described above is as follows:
TARGET 2 - Banque de France
1 rue La Vrilliere
75001
Paris, France
Bank of New York Mellon
225 Liberty Street
NY 10005
New York, NY
USA

3
LCH SA_Form CA l_Application_Schedule A

DTCC Deriv:Serv LLC
55 Water Street
NY 10041
New York, NY
USA
UnaVista
London Stock Exchange Group
I 0 Paternoster Square
London EC4M 7LS
United Kingdom
Markit Group Limited
2 More London Riverside
London SE 1 2AP
United Kingdom
Atos Origin Infogerance SAS
18 avenue d ' Alsace
92400
Courbevoie, France
LCH Limited
Aldgate House
33 Aldgate High Street
London EC3N l EA
United Kingdom
LSEG Business Services Limited
10 Paternoster Square
London EC4M 7LS
United Kingdom

Question 5 (a) : With respect to clearing agency activities, please provide the
following information regarding the type of insurance carried or provided:
Type of
Insurance

Yes

I. Blanket
Bond

See Crime and
Civil Liability
in "Other
Insurance
Carried or
Provided"
below

No

4
LCH SA_Fonn CA l_Application_Schedule A

Amount of
coverage

Amount of
Deductible

$

$

2. Fidelity

See Crime and
Civil Liability
in "Other
Insurance
Carried or
Provided"
below

$

$

3. Errors and

See Crime and
Civil Liability
in " Other
Insurance
Carried or
Provided"
below

$

$

Omissions['
l

4. Mail Policy

x

$

$

5. Air Courier

x

$

$

6. Lost

x

$

$

$

$

Instrument
7. Other
(please
specify on
Schedule
A)

x

Other Insurance Carried or Provided
Type of Insurance

Yes

1. Pension Trustee
Liability
2. Crime and Civil
Liability

No

Amount of coverage

Amount of
Deductible

x

GBP 10,000,000

GBP 10,000
Ni1[2J

x

GBP 200,000,000 in the
aggregate

GBP 1,000,000
each and every
loss

Pl Blanket Bond, Fidelity and Errors and Omissions are part of the Crime and Civil Liability
discussed below in ''Other Insurance Carried or Provided."
[iJ In relation to Theft.

5
LCH SA_Fonn CA l_Application_Schedule A

3. D&O Liability

x

GBP 100,000,000 in the
aggregate
Plus an additional GBP
25 ,000,000 for Side APJ
in respect of Main Group
Board

Nil for Side A1JJ
GBP 150, 000 for
Side 3 l4l
GBP 250,000 for
Side cl5l

4. Public Liability
and Product
Liability

x

GBP 150,000,000 in the
aggregate

GBP 500 each
and every claim

5. Material
Damage and
Business
Interruption

x

GBP 200,000,000
GBP 10,000,000 in
respect of Machinery
Breakdown

GBP I 0,000 any
one claim

6. Terrorism

x

GBP 50,000,000

Nil

Question S(b) : If any of registrant's clearing activities are not covered by
insurance, has provision been made for self-insurance?
DYes 0 No
If "yes", indicate on Schedule A the provisions made for self-in surance (e.g.,
accounting reserve or fund ed reserve) and the amount thereof.
NIA

Question S(c)(i) : As a result of registrant' s clearing agency activities, is
registrant exposed to loss if a participant falls to perform its obligations to the
clearing agency, any other participant or any other person?
0Yes D No
Question S(c)(ii) : If "yes," describe on Schedule A the operational,
organizational or other rules, procedures or practices (citing rules if applicable)
which result in regist rant's exposure to loss.
Upon acceptance of a CDS for clearing by LCH SA, the original C DS is
extinguished and is replaced by an equal and opposite CDS between LCH and
each clearing member that is acting as e ither principal for a house trade or as
agent (and guarantor) for a customer trade. LCH SA is therefore exposed to
3

1 1 Side A relates to Directors being sued personally.
4

1 1 Side B relates to Company reimbursement.
151 Side C relates to Securities Entity Cover.

6
LCH SA_Form CA l_ Application_Schedule A

potential loss resulting from: (I) a clearing member's default with respect to a
house trade, or (2) a clearing member's default on its obligation to LCH SA as
guarantor for a customer's trade.
LCH SA ' s CDS trade novation process is described in Section 3 .1.6 of the LCH
SA CDS Clearing Rule Book. LCH SA's obligations to clearing members,
including its undertaking to perform its obligations to each clearing member on
the basis of the cleared transactions, are set forth in Section I .2.9 of the LCH SA
CDS Clearing Rule Book.
The process through which LCH SA and the CDS Default Management Group
will manage a default of a clearing member is set forth in the CDS Default
Management Process, which is an appendix to the LCH SA CDS Clearing Rule
Book.

Question S(d)(i) : Does the registrant maintain a clearing or participants' fund,
mark to the market open obligations involving the purchase or sale of securities
or otherwise required participants to protect registrant against losses to which
it may be exposed as a result of a participant's failure to perform its obligations
to the clearing agency, any other participant or any other person?
0Yes 0 No
Question S(d)(ii) : If "yes," describe on Schedule A the operational,
organizational or other rules, procedures or practices (citing rules if applicable)
which are designed to protect registrant against any such losses.
Robust and effective risk management is the core of LCH SA's business.

Risk Management Framework
LCH SA ' s Board maintains overall responsibility for risk management of the
CDS clearing business. However, prior to making decisions with respect to risk
management, the LCH SA Board will obtain advice and recommendations from
the Risk Committee, Market Risk Management Committee, the Executive Risk
Committee and Ri sk Department, each of which is described below.
•

Risk Committee. LCH SA 's Risk Committee, which reports to the LCH
SA Board, is responsible for: (i) the risk controls designed for new
activities, including clearing new markets or accepting new contracts for
clearing; (ii) criteria for admission and member risk assessment policies;
(iii) the margining policy for each cleared market or product; (iv) the
Default Fund policy and stress testing methodology; (v) the treasury
investment policy (including the setting of exposure limits); (v) policies
on inter-central counterparty risk (interoperability); (vi) the policy on
acceptable forms of collateral; (vii) the payment and settlement ri sk
policy and any new arrangements; (viii) the default management
framework and policy; (ix) the liquidity risk polic} to manage operational
7

LCH SA_Form CA l_Application_Schedule A

and stress liquidity risk events; and (x) the policy on operational risk. All
policies are reviewed by the Risk Committee on an annual basis and
approved by the full LCH SA Board. The Risk Committee consists of
both external members, who serve in risk management or other senior
capacities for a Cleari ng Member, and internal members including LCH
SA's Risk Management director (who serves as the Committee's
secretary) and chief executive, and is chaired by an independent nonexecutive director.
•

Market Risk Management Committee. The Market Risk Management
Committee is responsible for assisting the Group Head of Market Risk in
discharging his/her responsibilities in respect of the management of the
latent market risk profiles of LCH Group Limited , LCH Limited, LCH
SA and LCH LLC.

•

Executive Risk Comm ittee. The Executive Risk Committee (the
"ER Co") is responsible for the effective and timely management,
monitoring and oversight of all material risks undertaken in pursuit of the
stated business objectives and risk appetite of a number of LCH group
entities. In particular, the ERCo's role includes the management and
control of risks across LCH Group Limited, LCH Limited, LCH SA and
LCH LLC (together, the '·LCH Group") pertaining to those risk types
specified in the LCH Group 's single risk appetite statement and risk
tolerance statement.

•

Risk Department. LCH SA ' s Risk Department is responsible for
overseeing the following elements of the risk management framework:
o

the Risk Policy team , which is responsible for: (1) conducting
annual reviews of LCH SA 's risk policies (described below), (2)
establishing risk policies for new products or markets, (3)
ensuring compliance with international regulations and
recommendations and (4) performing quantitative research;

o

the Risk Project team, which is in charge of the functional design,
functional specifications, user acceptance testing of information
techno logy developments and supports the implementation team
in the information technology systems used in risk management
and also serves as the liaison between (1) the Risk Department, (2)
the IT Department and (3) the project management structure.

o

the Risk Monitoring team, which is responsible for: (1)
conducting daily monitoring of Clearing Member exposures, the
adequacy of margin and CDS Default Fund amo unts, (2) of
margin parameters, (3) calling for intra-day margin and (4)
preparing reports to be sent to LCH SA management and to
regulators; and

8
LCH SA_Form C..\ l_Application_Schedule A

o

the Financial Monitoring team, which is responsible for the daily
monitoring of: ( 1) the counterparty credit risk posed to LCH SA
by its Clearing Members, (2) the potential counterparty credit risk
that would be posed to LCH SA by potential Clearing Members,
(3) the counterparty credit risk posed to LCH SA by LCH SA 's
counterparties with respect to the investments LCH SA makes
pursuant to its Treasury Investment Policy, and (4) LCH SA 's
compliance with capital requirements.

Admissions and Ongoing Membership Requirements
LCH SA 's admi ssions and ongoing membership requirements are designed to
ensure that Clearing Members have sufficient financial resources and the
operational capacity to meet their obligations arising from their participation in
LCH SA's CDS clearing service. The admissions and ongoing membership
requirements impose, among other things: Clearing Member capital
requirements, minimum operational standards, and credit risk standards. The
admissions and ongoing membership requirements, all of which are objective and
consistent with applicable regulatory requirements, are necessary to protect LCH
SA and are appropriate for the C DS Clearing Service. LCH SA has carefully
des igned these requirements to be risk appropriate, without being unnecessarily
restrictive. The requirements permit fair and open access and do not unfairly
discriminate in the admission of members or among members. The requirements
are set forth in Sections 2.2.1 through 2.2.4 of the LCH SA CDS Clearing Rule
Book (the "Rule Book"). LCH SA also requires its Clearing Members to
maintai n current written risk management policies that address the risks that the
C learing Member may pose to LCH SA 's CDS clearing business. The
requirements concerning written C learing Member risk management policies are
set forth in Section 2.3.5 of the Rule Book.

Monitoring of Clearing Members' Financial and Operational Resources
On an ongoing basis, LCH SA also carefully monitors the financial and
operational resources of its CDS Clearing Members. LCH SA also actively
monitors various forward-looking indicators concerning the financial health of its
Clearing Members, including, for example, CDS spreads in respect of a Clearing
Member. Among other things, LCH SA also requires its Clearing Members to
regularly file specified financial information with LCH SA, including, for
example, audited financial statements. In addition, LCH SA rules impose specific
reporting obligations on Clearing Members. More specifically, LCH SA requires
its Clearing Members to notify LCH SA in writing without delay upon the
occurrence of particular events or circumstances, including, for example, when a
C learing Member's capital is reduced by more than I 0% from that shown on the
latest financial statement that the Clearing Member filed with LCH SA . These
requirements are set forth in Sections 2.3.1 and 2.3.2 of the Rule Book.

9
LCH SA_Form CAl_Application_Schedulc A

In addition, LCH SA has the authority to inspect the clearing activities of its
members and require an audit of a Clearing Member's systems and operations.
This authority helps LCH SA evaluate the financial health and operational
capacity of its Clearing Members and ensure that they are complying with
applicable LCH SA rules and procedures. This inspection and audit authority is
set forth in Section 2.3.3 of the Rule Book. In addition, LCH SA has the
authority to suspend or terminate a Clearing Member's membership status in
certain circumstances, including, for example, as a result of disciplinary
proceedings brought against the Clearing Member or upon the occurrence of an
event in respect of a Clearing Member that could materially impact the Clearing
Member's ability to perform its obligations. These provis ions are set forth in
Sections 2.4.1 and 2.4.2 of the Rule Book.
Margin
In order to manage its ri sk exposure, LCH SA requires each Clearing Member to
transfer to LCH SA certain types of permissible collateral to satisfy the Clearing
Member's House Margin Requirement and Total Client Margin Requirement.
LCH SA calculates margin requirements in accordance with a robust margin
m ethodology and established procedures. LCH SA is entitled, in consultation
with the Risk Committee where reasonably possible, at any time to impose,
amend or withdraw additional requirements in relation to the calculation of
Margin payable by all Clearing Members. Provisions relating to margin are set
forth in Sections 4.2.1, 4.2.2, 4.2.3 , 4.2.4, 4.2.5, 4.2.6 and 4.2.7 of the Rule Book
and Section 2 of the LCH SA C DS Clearing Procedures (the "Procedures").
Management of Events of Default
LCH SA is authorized to determine that certain events constitute an '"Event of
Default" with respect to a Clearing Member, including, for example, when a
Clearing Member fails to perform its obligations in accordance with the CDS
Clearing Documentation. Following its declaration of an Event of Default, LCH
SA is required to take certain des ignated steps, such as publishing a Clearing
Notice on its website spec ify ing the name of the Defaulting Clearing Member, as
further described in Articles 4.3.1.2 through 4.3.2.2 of the Rule Book. In
addition, as soon as possible after declaring an Event of Default in respect of a
Clearing Member, LCH SA must commence the CDS Default Management
Process, which consists of specified steps that are designed to allow LCH SA to
efficiently manage its exposure to potential losses associated with an Event of
Default. The following general steps, all of which are described in detail in
Clause 2 of Appendix 1 to the Rule Book, make up the CDS Default
Management Process:
•

Hedging. LCH SA will reduce the market risk associated with a
Defaulting Clearing member's obligations to LCH SA so far as is
reasonably practicable by hedging LCH SA's exposure in respect of the
Defaulting Ciearing Member's Cleared Transactions.

10
LCH SA_ Form CA l_Application_Schedule A

•

Competitive Auction. LCH SA will then auction a portfolio consisting of
one or more cleared transactions registered in the name of the Defaulting
Clearing Member (and related hedging trades) to non-defaulting C learing
Members.

•

Loss Distribution Process. Jn the event that LCH SA determines that it
has an uncovered loss, LCH SA may invoke a Loss Distribution Process
set fot1h in Clause 7 of Appendix 1 to the Rule Book.

•

Early Termination. In the event that LCH SA determines that an Early
Termination Trigger Date has occurred, the provisions of Clause 8 of
Appendix I to the Rule Book concerning early termination will apply.

*A separate CDS Client Clearing Default Management process is set forth in
Clause 4 of Appendix l to the Rule Book.
In addition, LCH SA has discretionary authority to take certain other specified
measures that it deems necessary or useful in respect of a Defaulting Clearing
Member to manage the impact of the Event of Default, including, for example:
(i) terminating the Defaulting C learing Member's membership, (ii) imposing
increased margin requirements in respect of any of the margin accounts of the
Defaulting Clearing Member, or (iii) liquidating Collateral posted by the
Defaulting Clearing Member in its House Collateral Account and in respect of
any non-ported cleared transactions. Further information is set forth in Sections
4.3.l and 4.3.2 of the Rule Book.
Any damage incurred by LCH SA following, and in relation to, the declaration of
an Event of Default will be reduced or covered in accordance with a prescribed
methodology (waterfall) set forth in Article 4.3.3.1 of the Rule Book.
When the resources listed in Article 4.3 .3.1 (i) and (ii) of the Rule Book are
insufficient to cover the losses incurred by LCH SA as a result of an Event of
Default, then contributions of Non-Defaulting Clearing Members to the CDS
Default Fund shall be applied by LCH SA. The CDS Default Fund is established
for the CDS Clearing Service only and is a defau lt fund so lely for cleared CDS
transactions and is separate from the default fund(s) for LCH SA's other clearing
services. Details regarding the CDS Default Fund are set forth in Section 4.4.1 of
the Rule Book and Section 6 of the Procedures.

Question 7(a) : What are registrant's internal policies and procedures for
reconciling differences (including long and short stock record differences and
dividend differences) in its clearing agency activities?
LCH SA performs several novation cycle that require reconciliation.

11
LCH SA_ Form CA l_Application_Schedule A

Weekly BackJoading Cycle
LCH SA receives the "Gold Records File" from DTCC. The Gold Record File
includes the transaction data for a trade leg of a CDS referencing either an
eligible index or an eligible security-based swap.
Upon receipt of the Gold Records File, LCH SA performs consistency checks
and functional controls including (i) ensuring the completeness of the
information required by LCH SA to process the transaction data and (ii)
determining whether the Gold Record meets the eligibility requirements for LCH
SA.
Upon such verification, LCH SA prepares the Clearing Eligibility Report that
includes the transactions that have successfully passed the eligibility controls.
Clearing Members then prepare and send a report of the transactions they wish to
submit for clearing to LCH SA on the basis of the Clearing Eligibility Report.
LCH SA will reconcile the reports sent by the Clearing Members in order to
match transactions between Clearing Members. LCH SA will reconcile the
resulting transactions with the latest available Gold Record File to ensure the
transactions have not been removed from the Trade Information Warehouse .

Daily Backloading Cycle
LCH SA will receive transaction data from an Approved Matching Provider and
will perform the e ligibility controls similar to the ones described under the
Weekly Backloading Cycle. In respect of an original tran saction entered into by
a Client and not a Clearing Member (a " Client Transaction"), LCH SA will
perform additional checks to ensure that the Clearing Member that has been
nominated by the C lient consented to the novation of the transaction.
Transactions that have successfully passed the above-mentioned controls and
checks will be part of the daily novation cycle.

Intraday Process
The intraday process relies on similar controls and checks as described in the
Daily Backloading Cycle. This is because the transaction data will be received
by LCH SA from an Approved Matching Provider.

Difference in Records
LCH SA will ensure that all cleared transactions as a result of the Weekly
Backloading Cycle, the Daily Backload ing Cycle or the Intraday Process are
stored in the CDS Clearing System and in the Trade Information Warehouse.
Each of the following events will require the CDS Clearing System and the Trade
Information Warehouse to be updated:

12
LCH SA_ Form CA l_Application_Sched ule .-\,

•

Novation of Backloading Transactions;

•

Novation of Intraday Transactions;

•

Trade Compression;

•

Creation of Restructuring Cleared Transactions;

•

Re-couponing of the Cleared Transactions; and

•

Completion of Physical Settlement following a Credit Event.

Any differences noticed by the Clearing Members between the record held by the
CDS Clearing System and the Trade Information Warehouse must be reported to
LCH SA as soon as reasonably practicable. LCH SA then amends the appropriate
record to correct the differences, to the extent it is authorized to do so.
In case of a discrepancy between the CDS Clearing System and the Trade
Information Warehouse records, the records held in the CDS Clearing System
will prevail.

13
LCH SA_Form CA l_Application_Schedulc A

LCH.Clearnet SA
Terms of Reference of the Board
(Adopted by the Board on 12 February 2015)

Article 1.

Purpose

These Terms of Reference provide for the terms relating to the organisation and functioning of the Board of the
Company and of its Committees, which in addition to the law and to the articles of association, specify certain rules
relating to the allocation of tasks and responsibilities between the General Management, the Chairman and the
Board, and specify the rules applicable to the Directors.
The Directors are bound by the provisions of these Terms of Reference.
Article 2.

Definitions

The following words and expressions when used in these Terms of Reference have the meaning given to them
below:
Audit Committee means the audit committee of the Company.
Board means the board of directors (conseil d'administration) of the Company.
Cash Clearing Agreement means the agreement for cash equities clearing between the Company and EURONEXT
dated 28 January 2013.
Cash Clearing Infrastructure means UCS Cash, or the successor clearing infrastructure used for cleared financial
instruments agreed upon between the Company and EURONEXT as the clearing infrastructure to be used by the
Company to render the clearing services.
Cash Common Services means the clearing services provided by the Company to the trading facilities for the cash
clearing of financial instruments listed on the Euronext markets and other trading facilities operated by EURONEXT
using the Cash Clearing Infrastructure developed and operated by the Company for the clearing of such financial
instruments.
CEO means the chief executive officer (directeur général) of the Company.
Chairman means the chairman (président du conseil d'administration) of the Board.
Clearing Member has the meaning ascribed to it in the Company's clearing rules.
Committee means a committee established by the Board, which are listed in Article 15.
Company means LCH.Clearnet SA.
Conflicted Shareholder has the meaning ascribed to it in Article 14.18 of these Terms of Reference.
Conflict of Interest means a situation in which a Director has, or can have, an interest which conflicts, or possibly
may conflict, with the interests of the Company.
Conflict Situation has the meaning ascribed to it in Article 14.18 of these Terms of Reference.
Core Operating Principles means the principles to be applied by LCH.Clearnet Group Limited in managing its
business, as set out in and adopted pursuant to the Relationship Agreement.

1

Customer has the meaning set out in the US CFTC Rules as in force from time to time.
Customer Director means a Director who is nominated by a shareholder of LCH.Clearnet Group Limited which is a
Customer or who is otherwise connected to such Customer shareholder by virtue of his employment or directorship.
Deputy-CEO means a deputy managing director (directeur général délégué) of the Company, if any.
Director means a director (administrateur) of the Company.
Eligible Institution has the meaning ascribed to it in the articles of association of LCH.Clearnet Group Limited from
time to time.
EMIR Regulation means the Regulation (EU) No. 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July
2012 on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories as well as the Commission Implementing
Regulation (EU) No. 1249/2012 of 19 December 2012 implementing regulatory technical standards and Commission
Delegated Regulation (EU) No. 153/2013 of 19 December 2012 supplementing Regulation (EU) No. 648/2012 of the
European Parliament and of the Council, or any applicable successor law or regulation.
Euronext means Euronext Brussels S.A./N.V., Euronext Amsterdam N.V., Euronext Paris S.A., Euronext Lisbon –
Sociedade Gestora De Mercados Regulamentados S.A. and Liffe Administration and Management.
Exchanges has the meaning ascribed to it in the articles of association of LCH.Clearnet Group Limited from time to
time.
General Management means the general management (direction générale) of the Company.
Group Nomination Committee means the nomination committee of the LCH Group.
Head of Compliance and Public Affairs means the person who satisfies the role of chief compliance officer of the
Company, as defined under the EMIR Regulation.
Independent Director means an independent director, who satisfies applicable Regulatory Requirements regarding
independent directors and who is appointed in accordance with the Group Nomination Committee terms of reference.
LCH Group means LCH.Clearnet Group Limited and its subsidiaries from time to time.
LSEG means London Stock Exchange Group plc.
LSEG Audit Representative means the LSEG chief financial officer, the LSEG head of audit or the LSEG chief risk
officer or any other person of appropriate seniority and expertise as may be agreed from time to time between LSEG
and the chairman of LCH.Clearnet Group Limited to sit on the Company's Audit Committee.
LSEG Consent Matters has the meaning given thereto in the Relationship Agreement.
LSEG Director means a director appointed to the board of LCH.Clearnet Group Limited by LSEG (other than the
CEO of LCH.Clearnet Group Limited).
LSEG Group means London Stock Exchange Group plc and its subsidiaries from time to time other than those
entities comprising the LCH Group.
LSEG NomCom Representative means any person of appropriate seniority and expertise as may be agreed from
time to time between LSEG and the chairman of LCH.Clearnet Group Limited to sit on the nomination committee,.
Managers in Charge means the CEO and the other person(s) designated as "dirigeant effectif" of the Company in
accordance with applicable Regulatory Requirements, who are empowered with the effective determination of the
operation of the Company's business, as described in Article 13.2 of these Terms of Reference.
Material Interest means the entitlement to exercise or control the exercise of at least 20 per cent. of the votes able

2

to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings of LCH.Clearnet Group Limited.
Minority Protection Reserved Matters has the meaning given thereto in the Relationship Agreement.
Push Matters has the meaning ascribed to it in the Relationship Agreement.
Regulatory Requirements means, with respect to the Company, any regulation or requirement of applicable law or
of any applicable regulatory body or any request of any applicable regulatory body, with which failure to comply
would result or would reasonably be expected by the Company to result in the withdrawal of authorisation necessary
to conduct clearing business in any relevant jurisdiction or other disciplinary or enforcement action that would have a
material adverse effect on the ability of any member of the LCH Group to conduct clearing business in any relevant
jurisdiction.
Relationship Agreement means the relationship agreement entered into by LCH.Clearnet Group Limited, LSEG
and London Stock Exchange (C) Limited.
Remuneration Committee means the remuneration committee of the Company.
Risk Committee means the risk committee of the Company.
Secretary means the secretary (secrétaire) of the Board.
Senior Management has the meaning given thereto in the EMIR Regulation.
Settlement Systems means one of the settlement systems used by the Company for the Cash Common Services
which are Euroclear Bank, Euroclear Belgium, Euroclear France, Euroclear Netherlands, or Sociedade Gestora de
Sistemas de Liquidação e de Sistemas Centralizados de Valores Mobiliários, S.A. (Interbolsa), Banque Nationale de
Belgique (BNB), or any successor settlement system agreed upon between the Company and EURONEXT.
Significant Interest means the entitlement to exercise or control the exercise of at least 40 per cent. of the votes
able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings of LCH.Clearnet Group Limited.
Terms of Reference means these terms of reference (réglement intérieur) of the Board.
User means Eligible Institutions other than Venues.
User Director means a director who is nominated by a shareholder of LCH.Clearnet Group Limited which is a User
or who is otherwise connected to such User shareholder by virtue of his employment or directorship (and, for the
avoidance of doubt, excludes a Customer Director).
Venue means Eligible Institutions (save for LSEG) which are Exchanges.
Venue Director means a director who is nominated by a shareholder of LCH.Clearnet Group Limited which is a
Venue or who is otherwise connected to such Venue shareholder by virtue of his employment or directorship.
Article 3.

Composition of the Board

The Board is composed of a minimum of three and a maximum of eighteen Directors. Each Director is proposed by
the Board at a shareholders' meeting and appointed for a period of three years. The Board's proposals regarding
appointment of Directors shall be based on recommendations made by the Group Nomination Committee in
accordance with its terms of reference and the Relationship Agreement.
Subject to the decision of the shareholders' meeting, the Board shall be composed of the following categories of
Directors:


non-executive Chairman

3



independent non-executive directors (including the chairman of LCH.Clearnet Group Limited);



executive directors (including the CEO of the Company, the CEO of LCH.Clearnet Group Limited and the
chief risk officer of LCH.Clearnet Group Limited);



Venue Directors or, if an insufficient number of Venue Directors is available, independent non-executive
directors nominated by LSEG;



User Directors; and



one Director representing LSEG (for so long as LSEG is entitled to exercise or control the exercise of at
least 5 per cent. of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings in
LCH.Clearnet Group Limited),

such categories and such numbers of Directors within each category being subject to change to comply with any
applicable legal or regulatory requirements from time to time (including the appointment of additional Independent
Directors or Customer Directors as may be required from time to time to comply with applicable Regulatory
Requirements).
Pursuant to the Cash Clearing Agreement and for so long as the Cash Clearing Agreement is in force, EURONEXT
is entitled to propose the appointment of a Director to the Board through the Group Nomination Committee, such
appointment being approved by the shareholders' meeting upon recommendation made by the Board (with the
assistance of the Group Nomination Committee).
In its proposals, the Board aims for its own composition and that of the Committees it creates to be balanced and in
line with the needs of the Company in terms of the skills and experience of the Directors chosen. The preceding
sentence notwithstanding, the composition of the Board and its Committees shall at all times reflect Regulatory
Requirements. The Board shall take appropriate measures to ensure that the Directors meet all appropriate fitness
standards under applicable law and that their duties are carried out with the necessary level of independence,
integrity and objectivity.
Directors may be dismissed at any time by the shareholders' meeting without cause. If the conduct of a Director
appears to the Group Nomination Committee likely to be prejudicial to the sound and prudent management of the
Company, the Group Nomination Committee shall (and with regard to Directors appointed by LSEG, with LSEG's
consent (not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed)) recommend to the Board convening a shareholders' meeting
and the Board may propose such Director's removal at the shareholders' meeting. The shareholders may decide, in
their sole discretion, taking into account the recommendation of the Board, to dismiss the relevant Director.
Directors may also resign by notice to the Company.
Otherwise, a Director's duties come to an end at the close of the shareholders' meeting approving the annual
accounts for the past financial year and held the year the Director's term ends.
Directors shall be eligible for re-appointment up to a maximum of three three-year terms, unless otherwise
determined by the Group Nomination Committee.
Only in case of a vacancy due to the death or resignation of one or more Directors, the Board may, in the period
between shareholders' meetings, decide on temporary appointments, subject to the ratification by the next
shareholders' meeting and compliance with Regulatory Requirements. A Director appointed by the Board to replace
another shall remain in office for the remaining period of his/her predecessor's term. He/she is eligible for reappointment.
Article 4.
4.1

Rules applicable to Directors
General obligations

The Directors represent the shareholders as a whole and must act under all circumstances in the corporate interest

4

of the Company.
A Director must, at the time of his/her appointment, review the laws and regulations regarding his/her function as well
as the specific provisions laid out in the articles of association and the internal rules and procedure of the Board and
its Committees. A Director should, if he/she deems it necessary, be able to receive training regarding the specific
features of the Company and its activities.
A Director's acceptance of his/her appointment requires his/her commitment, in particular:


To dedicate the required time and attention to his/her duties and to matters considered by the Board, and
where applicable, by the Committee of which he/she is a member;



To ask for any additional information he/she might find useful;



To form an opinion prior to making any decision; taking into consideration only the Company's best
interests; and



To actively participate in Board meetings.

He/she undertakes to attend Board meetings according to the pre-established annual calendar and, where possible,
to make him/herself available for any exceptional meetings.
Each Director must fulfil his/her duties with respect to the requirement to commit sufficient time to perform their
functions in the Company and the rules governing the number of corporate directorships that can be held. In a case
where a Director intends to accept an office in addition to the ones he/she already holds, he/she must notify the
Secretary.
Directors shall be prohibited from accepting an office (mandat social) in a competing company, save for an office in
the LSEG Group.
4.2

Right of information of Directors

Save as otherwise prescribed in these Terms of Reference, the Chairman or the CEO shall communicate to the
Directors all necessary information for the fulfilment of their duties and the Directors may obtain all documents they
consider useful prior to any meeting.
If a majority of the Independent Directors determine in good faith that, in order to prevent a breach of applicable
competition law or regulation, a Director connected to a particular shareholder of LCH.Clearnet Group Limited should
not have access to competitively sensitive information concerning a particular Eligible Institution, the relevant
Director shall be notified of this situation and shall immediately make appropriate arrangements in order not to
receive such competitively sensitive information. The relevant Director shall also absent him/herself from any part of
a Board meeting at which such competitively sensitive information is discussed, and/or shall abstain him/herself to
participate in discussions or vote on any resolution at such Board meeting (or a meeting of any Committee) relating
to such competitively sensitive information, unless a majority of the Independent Directors agree otherwise.
The Independent Directors may only make a determination described in the paragraph above on a case by case
basis and:


on their own initiative, provided that they have consulted the Company’s legal advisers in advance of such
determination and taken their views into account; or



if, following receipt by the Company of a written request from any Eligible Institution that a particular Director
should not have access to certain competitively sensitive information concerning such Eligible Institution, a
majority of the Independent Directors determine, having obtained such legal advice as they consider
appropriate, that such request is proportionate and not vexatious.

Any restriction imposed pursuant to the previous paragraphs shall be without prejudice to any rights of consent under

5

the LSEG Consent Matters and Minority Protection Reserved Matters, or any of LSEG's rights in connection with the
Push Matters.
The Chairman, assisted by the Secretary, is responsible for the communication to Directors of all relevant information
according to the circumstances and the points on the scheduled agenda. Where practicable, the Board's files shall
be made available to the Directors at least a week before the proposed Board meeting.
Directors shall be informed regularly, by any means, of the Company's financial situation, its accounts and its
undertakings as well as of any significant risk, event or operation regarding the Company as well as risk
management policies and any amendments thereto.
To complete the information they have and for the fulfilment of their duties, Directors may meet with the Company's
managers as reasonably requested, provided that the Chairman and the CEO have given their prior approval to such
a meeting.
4.3

Discretionary and confidentiality duties

Without prejudice to any rights LSEG may have in the Relationship Agreement, reports and documents provided to
the Board shall be deemed confidential, unless otherwise indicated. The discussions as well as the minutes
transcribing their content shall also be confidential. This duty of confidentiality applies to all persons attending the
Board meetings.
Directors shall be bound by an absolute duty of confidentiality, even after the end of their term, with respect to the
content of the discussions and deliberations of the Board with the exception of cases where the disclosure of such
information is required by the laws or regulations in force or where it is in the public interest.
4.4

Duty of expression

Directors commit to clearly express any objection they might have to a draft decision they deem might harm the
Company.
Article 5.

Board meetings

The dates of Board meetings for the following calendar year shall be agreed on a provisional basis, taking into
account the scheduled dates of the meetings of the other boards of the LCH Group, as well as those of the boardlevel committees in the LCH Group. The proposed schedule is subject to the approval of the Chairman and the CEO
as well as executives of the LCH Group. It is then placed on the Board's agenda to inform all Directors.
The Board shall meet as often as required in the interests of the Company, at the request of any Director of the
Company. The Board shall meet, on average, six times per year and at least once per annum. The Board shall
devote an item on its agenda to a discussion of its working procedures.
When the Board does not meet for more than two months, a Director may request that the Chairman call a meeting
with a determined agenda. The CEO may also request at any time that the Chairman call the Board with a
determined agenda.
A Board meeting may be convened in exceptional cases on a specific topic and when being convened to discuss a
specific topic, it may be convened by email.
Board meetings shall be held at the registered office or at any other location specified in the notice (including
abroad). Meetings shall be chaired by the Chairman or, failing that, by a Director temporarily carrying out the duties
of chairman designated for that purpose by the Board.
Within the limits and conditions of the legal and regulatory provisions, the Board meetings may take place by means
of video-conferencing or telecommunication. Any Directors participating in this manner shall be deemed to be
present for the purpose of establishing quorum and majority, except (i) if provided otherwise by the articles of
association, or (ii) when decisions relating to the closing of the annual accounts and consolidated financial

6

statements and the drafting of the corporate management report are being made.
Article 6.

Quorum

The board of Directors may validly deliberate only if half of the Directors are present.
If there is a breakdown in the telecommunication or video-conference link noted by the Chairman, the Board may
validly deliberate and/or continue with the Directors who are physically present as long as the conditions of quorum
have been fulfilled. The occurrence of any technical incident disrupting the operation will be mentioned in the
minutes, including the interruption and re-establishment of remote participation.
Should no quorum exist at the commencement of a meeting, the Board shall be reconvened within five days with the
same agenda.
Article 7.
7.1

Voting majority
Simple majority

Subject to Article 7.2, decisions shall be made by a majority vote of the Directors present or represented at the Board
meeting. The Chairman casts the deciding vote in the event of an equality of votes.
When only two Directors are present, decisions must be made by unanimous vote.
7.2

Enhanced majority

Decisions of the Board in respect of the following topics require a majority vote of 75% of the non-conflicted Directors
voting at the meeting, unless otherwise agreed by EURONEXT and the Company:


reduction in the choice, access to, and operating principles of Settlement Systems relevant to the Cash
Common Services;



changes of information technology systems or developments of new information technology architectures,
advancements, in technologies (hardware, software and parameterisation of these hardwares and
softwares) relating to the Cash Clearing Infrastructure; and



allocation of costs relating to information technology systems developments (which include the costs
incurred for hardware purchasing, software development, parameterisation, consultancy services, project
management, related maintenance and support services and the Clearing Members technical support
services) relating to the Cash Clearing Infrastructure.

Article 8.

Alternate Director

Any Director may give a proxy in writing (by email, fax or letter) to another Director to represent him/herself at a
specified Board meeting.
Each Director may only hold one proxy per meeting and cannot represent more than one Director. An Independent
Director may only appoint a proxy who qualifies as an Independent Director and any purported appointment of an
alternative who does not so qualify will be void ab initio.
Article 9.

Record of Board attendance

Where Directors are unable to attend any Board meeting, they must notify the Secretary of their intended absence in
a timely manner following receipt of their convening notice. The Secretary shall have the Directors sign the
attendance register and take note of the Directors attending by means of videoconferencing or telecommunication,
as the case may be. In the event that a Director has been repeatedly absent for more than three consecutive Board
meetings, the Director concerned may be called to order by the Chairman.

7

The attendance register is kept in a safe in the office of the Secretary.
Article 10.

Minutes

The minutes of any Board meetings shall be prepared by the Secretary. The minutes shall be subject to approval of
the Chairman and CEO. They shall be distributed to the Directors and approved at the following meeting. Given the
French and English composition of the Board, minutes shall be translated into French before being presented to the
Board.
The minutes shall be signed by the chairman of the meeting and at least one Director. In case of impediment of the
chairman of the meeting, the minutes shall be signed by at least two Directors.
Copies or extracts from the minutes of the meetings shall be validly certified either by the Chairman, the CEO, a
Deputy-CEO (if any), any other Director temporarily delegated to fulfil the functions of the chairman, or by a proxy
empowered for this purpose.
During the liquidation of the Company, these copies or extracts would be certified by a sole liquidator.
Article 11.

Board Secretary

The Secretary may be any person that the Board elects to appoint.
The Secretary is responsible for convening the Board meetings and the shareholders' meetings on behalf of the
Chairman. In conjunction with the Chairman and CEO, the Secretary draws up the agenda of the Board. The agenda
and notice of any Board meeting shall be then sent to the Directors or any other Board meeting attendees such as
representatives of the works council.
The Secretary establishes the list of the documents that will be provided to the Directors in accordance with the
proposed agenda and ensures their collection. The content of all the supplied documents shall be subject to the
approval of the Chairman and the CEO before being sent or transmitted to Directors where practicable,
approximately a week before the proposed Board meeting.
In compliance with laws and regulations, the Secretary shall ensure that copies of minutes are provided upon request
to anyone entitled to receive such copies.
The Secretary is available to satisfy any request for information from a Director regarding his/her rights and
obligations, the operation of the Board or the life of the Company.
The Secretary submits evidence of any official changes (Directors, financial statements, articles of association, etc.)
to the commercial registry and to any relevant legal gazette, if required.
Article 12.

Powers of the Board

The Board determines the business strategies of the Company and oversees their implementation. Subject to the
powers that the laws and regulations expressly reserve to general meetings of shareholders and to the Managers in
Charge, namely the CEO and the other person(s) designated as "dirigeant effectif" of the Company, and within the
limits of the Company’s corporate purpose, the Board is responsible for the overall management of the Company,
deals with all questions concerning the smooth course of the Company's business and passes resolutions to settle all
matters that concern it.
This Article does not prevent the Board from having full access to relevant information which is outside the scope of
the matters listed in this Article. In following this Article, the Board shall have regard to the relevant provisions of the
Relationship Agreement.
The business of the Company will be managed in a manner that is consistent with LCH.Clearnet Group Limited being
run at all times in accordance with the Core Operating Principles.

8

Within this framework, and without this list being exhaustive:
(a)

with respect to business management and strategy, the Board shall:



establish clear objectives and strategies for the Company;



approve the Company’s annual operating and capital expenditure budget;



approve any material changes to the Company’s budget;



review the Company’s performance in light of the strategy, objectives, business plans and
budgets approved by the Board and any subsequent revision, and ensure that appropriate
corrective action is taken;



approve any change in the fee grid which has a material impact on the relevant Business
line’s approved budget;



ensure that no person, save for the CEO, is entitled on his/her own, on behalf of the
Company, to make an expense exceeding EUR 100,000 and to commit to its payment;



approve the terms and conditions of any merger agreement between the Company and a third
party;



convene and set the agenda of the shareholders' meeting;



approve the planned extension of the Company's activities through the launch of new
products or the launch of existing products in new geographic areas;

(b)

with respect to the structure and capital of the Company, the Board shall issue a report to the
shareholders to recommend:



any changes relating to the Company’s share or regulatory capital structure including any
reduction of capital, issue of shares or other securities and share buy-back, to be decided
upon by a general meeting of shareholders. In addition to shareholder approval, each issue of
shares in the Company shall be subject to the consent of LSEG for so long as LSEG and any
member of its Group hold in aggregate a Significant Interest in LCH.Clearnet Group Limited
(such consent not to be unreasonably delayed), (save where such breach results from the
issue or loan by a member of the LCH Group of a de minimis number of shares to one or
more of its directors to comply with legal requirements);



any changes to the Company’s legal status to be decided upon by general meeting of
shareholders;



any changes to the Company’s management and control structure to be decided upon by
general meeting of shareholders;

(c)

with respect to remuneration of the Company's employees, the Board shall:



establish and regularly review appropriate remuneration policies, with the assistance of the
Remuneration Committee, and control its implementation;



on the basis of the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee, to the extent required
by EMIR or by the Company's regulators, approve the remuneration policy for the Chairman
of the Board, the Executive Directors of the Company, the Company's Head of Compliance
and Public Affairs and any other senior executive personnel of the Company as decided by
the Board;

9



determine the remuneration of the non-executive Directors of the Company;



in consultation with the Boards of other LCH Group subsidiary companies (as applicable),
determine any material changes to the Company’s pension arrangements;

(d)

with respect to financial reporting and controls, the Board shall:



prepare the Company’s annual accounts to be approved by general meeting of shareholders
and issue a related management report to the shareholders;



issue a report to the shareholders to recommend the payment of any interim and final
dividend to be decided upon by general meeting of shareholders;



approve any significant changes in accounting policies or practices;

(e)

with respect to risk management, the Board shall:



establish and monitor the risk management function of the Company;



determine the general framework of membership rules (e.g. criteria for admission) following
recommendation from the Risk Committee;



determine the general framework of risk control rules following recommendation from the Risk
Committee;



determine the framework of Default Fund rules following recommendation from the Risk
Committee;



approve the internal policy framework for defining the type of extreme but plausible market
conditions that could expose the Company to greatest risk following recommendation of the
Risk Committee and review any material change reported by the Risk Committee and any
review undertaken by the Risk Committee and reported to the Board;



approve the new stress-testing model following recommendation from the Risk Committee;



determine the Company’s Liquidity Policy, Risk Appetite Statement, Operational Risk Policy,
Treasury Investment Policy and Interest Rate Risk Policy and any significant changes to those
policies, following recommendation from the Risk Committee;



approve the liquidity plan after consulting the Risk Committee;



approve the level of liquidity risk tolerance determined by the Managers in Charge, and come
to a decision at least once per year on such level of risk tolerance and on the strategies,
policies, procedures, systems, tools and limits allowing the Company to detect, measure,
manage and follow the liquidity risk, and approve any material change thereto;



approve the limits (including, without limitation, the risk global limits) proposed by the
Managers in Charge after having consulted, as the case may be, the Risk Committee;



determine the conditions of communication and periodicity under which information on
whether risk limits are satisfied, including whether global limits are likely to be reached, is
communicated to the Board and the Risk Committee



approve the business continuity policy and the disaster recovery plan of the Company, and
review independent reviews of such business continuity policy and disaster recovery plan
reported to the Board;

10



oversee the crisis management function of the Company;



ratify the suitability of any guarantor which is the issuer of a commercial bank guarantee to be
accepted as collateral, after a full assessment of the issuer and of the legal, contractual and
operational framework of the guarantee and ensure that the Company has a high level of
comfort on the effectiveness of the guarantee;



approve the policy for the use of derivative contracts by the Company for the purpose of
investing its financial resources, after having consulted the Risk Committee;



approve each year, or following any material change, the model that the financial and nonfinancial counterparties shall have for using marking-to-model as referred to in the EMIR
Regulation, unless this approval has been delegated by the Board to a Committee (e.g. the
Risk Committee);



review the results of the independent audit assessments of the information technology
systems and the information security framework reported to the Board;



approve the contemplated dismissal of the chief risk officer (responsable de la fonction de
gestion des risques);

(f)

with respect to Board membership and other appointments, the Board shall:


recommend changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board upon
recommendations from the Group Nomination Committee, to be approved by general meeting
of shareholders;



ensure adequate succession planning for the Board;



decide appointments to the Board Committees further to recommendations from the Group
Nomination Committee;



appoint the Chairman of the Board and the CEO and determine their remuneration;



in consultation with the Company's Head of Compliance and Public Affairs (or his or her
designee) manage and authorise Director conflicts of interest in accordance with these Terms
of Reference;



recommend the appointment or reappointment of the external auditor upon recommendations
from the Audit Committee, to be approved by general meeting of shareholders;



be responsible for the oversight of the Company's Head of Compliance and Public Affairs,
internal audit function and chief risk officer (all of which report directly to the Board); and



effectively monitor the Senior Management of the Company.

(g)

with respect to delegation of authority, the Board shall approve the terms of reference of Board
Committees and any changes thereto;

(h)

with respect to compliance and internal control, the Board shall:



determine the compliance policies and procedures of the Company, jointly with the Managers
in Charge;



monitor the compliance function and internal control function of the Company;



review on a regular basis, with the assistance of the Risk Committee, the policies

11

implemented in order to comply with internal control requirements, and assess the efficiency
of such policies, arrangements and procedures implemented for the same purpose and of the
measures taken to remedy any failures;


review on a regular basis, with the assistance of the Risk Committee, the effectiveness of the
implementation of the Company’s risk and control processes by the Managers in Charge and
take all appropriate measures to remedy any failures;



undertake twice a year a review of the Company's risk and control processes, results and
activities of the internal control system, including the control of compliance, and the significant
incidents revealed by the internal control procedures;



determine the nature, volume, form and frequency of information communicated to the Board;



set the criteria and thresholds of significance allowing the identification of incidents by risk
analysis and risk measurement systems, which must be brought to its attention;



approve the audit planning of the Company and its review;



oversee the outsourcing arrangements of the Company;



oversee the compliance of the Company with all provisions of the EMIR Regulation and all
other regulatory and supervisory requirements;



meet with the Company's Head of Compliance and Public Affairs at least once per year,
together with the Managers in Charge, to which the Company's Head of Compliance and
Public Affairs reports;



provide accountability to the shareholders or owners and employees, clearing members and
their customers of the Company and other relevant stakeholders;

(i)

with respect to corporate governance and compliance, the Board shall:


undertake an annual review of its own performance and that of its Committees;



oversee compliance with applicable legal, regulatory and contractual requirements from time
to time; and



take into account any implications of the group for the Company's own governance
arrangements (including having an appropriate conflicts policy in place) including whether the
Company has the necessary level of independence to meet its regulatory obligations as a
distinct legal person and whether its independence could be compromised by the group
structure.

If there is any doubt as to whether a particular matter falls within the scope of this Article, the matter shall be brought
to the attention of the Secretary of the Board who shall refer it to the Chairman of the Board who shall then decide
whether the matter referred to him is reserved for the Board and his decision shall be final.
Article 13.

Company management (Chairman – CEO)

The Board appoints from the Directors a Chairman, who shall be an individual. The Chairman may be dismissed at
any time by the Board.
In following this Article, the Board shall have regard to the relevant provisions of the Relationship Agreement.
13.1

General Management

12

The Board shall entrust the General Management to the CEO.
The Chairman does not assume the General Management, he/she has no executive responsibilities and will be in
charge of the following functions:


To ensure the proper operation of the Company’s bodies and in particular ensure that the Directors are able
to carry out their duties within the Board;



To report to the shareholders' meeting on the manner in which the work of the Board and the internal control
procedures implemented by the Company are prepared and organized;



To ensure the application of good governance standards;



To maintain, in consultation with the CEO, the Company's high-level relationships with customers,
regulators and public authorities both in France and abroad.

As the functions of Chairman and CEO are separated, the Board, with assistance from its Committees, appoints the
CEO, sets the term of office, determines the remuneration and, if necessary, the limitations on its powers.
The CEO may be dismissed at any time by the Board.
With respect to day-to-day management, the CEO is vested with the broadest powers to act in any and all
circumstances in the name of the Company. He/she exercises these powers within the limits of the Company's
corporate purpose and subject to those powers that the law expressly reserves to general meetings of shareholders
and to the Board.
The CEO represents the Company in its relationship with third parties. The CEO is also responsible for providing the
Board and its Committees with the information they need and to implement the decisions taken by the Board.
As an internal restriction only and without effect towards third parties, the CEO must obtain the prior approval by a
resolution of the Board in order to carry out:


any planned extension of the Company’s activities through the launch of new products or through the launch
of existing products in new geographic areas;



any opening of a new branch or representative office of the Company, whether conducting clearing activities
through such branch or office or otherwise;



any type of joint venture arrangement between the Company and any third party;



any acquisition of a business with a valuation representing 5% or more of the Company’s net revenue stated
in the last audited accounts published by the LCH Group;



any disposal of all or any material part of the Company’s business;



any decision to cease to operate all or any material part of the Company’s business;



any major change to the Company’s corporate structure such as the creation of new holding or subsidiary
companies;



any contract which the Company or any subsidiary of the Company proposes to enter into in the ordinary
course of business of the Company, which is material to the Company’s business strategically or by reason
of its duration (over three years) or its size, namely with an estimated or actual present value of EUR
5,000,000 or more;



any contract which the Company or any subsidiary of the Company proposes to enter into outside the
ordinary course of business of the Company including any loan or similar arrangement with a value of EUR

13

1,000,000 or more;


any acquisition or disposal of shares or any interest in shares of the Company, any significant investment in
any third party or the making of any takeover offer;



any prosecution, defence or settlement of litigation worth at least EUR 2,000,000 or otherwise material to
the Company’s interests;



any item of expenditure or the incurrence of any liability if such expenditure or liability is in excess of EUR
10,000,000 or results in the total limit on spending or costs set out in the annual budget exceeding the
budgeted level by more than 10%;



any material acquisitions and disposals, including in relation to intellectual property and the Company’s
various business segments and group undertakings. For the purposes of this paragraph, an acquisition or
disposal shall be material if the value of the consideration or the assets which are the subject of the
transaction exceed an aggregate amount of EUR 10,000,000;



any material borrowings and material capital expenditure. For the purposes of this paragraph: (i) material
borrowings includes any new committed facilities (irrespective of the size of the borrowing), the Preferred
Securities (as defined in the Articles of LCH.Clearnet Group Limited) and any intra-day or over-night
settlement bank and concentration bank facilities entered into for the purposes of the Company’s clearing
activities; and (ii) capital expenditure shall be material if it exceeds an aggregate annual amount of EUR
3,000,000; and



any material IT investments proposed to be made by the Company. IT investments shall be material if they
exceed an aggregate annual amount of EUR 2,000,000.
13.2

Managers in Charge

The Managers in Charge (dirigeants effectifs) and other members of the Senior Management of the Company (if
any), are both empowered with the effective determination of the operation of the Company's business. In summary,
they are responsible for (i) the accounting and financial information of the Company, (ii) ensuring the Company
complies with French and EU law requirements relating to its own funds and (iii) ensuring the Company complies
with French law requirements relating to internal control within the Company. In particular but not limited to:
(a)

with respect to risk management, the Managers in Charge and other members of the Senior
Management of the Company (if any) shall:



ensure consistency of the Company's activities with the objectives and strategy of the
Company as determined by the Board;



ensure that sufficient resources are devoted to risk management;



determine and manage effective admission to clearing membership, and provide feedback
and suggestions to the Board as well as information to the Risk Committee, in respect of the
determination by the Board of a general framework of membership rules;



determine and manage day to day risk control designed or adapted for the clearing of a new
market, and provide feedback and suggestions to the Board as well as information to the Risk
Committee, in respect of the determination by the Board of a general framework of risk control
rules;



determine and manage any change in the size of the Default Fund, and provide feedback and
suggestions to the Board as well as information to the Risk Committee, in respect of the
determination by the Board of a general framework of Default Fund rules;



provide feedback and suggestions to the Board as well as information to the Risk Committee

14

in respect of new stress-testing model to be approved by the Board;

Article 14.
14.1



provide feedback and suggestions to the Board as well as information to the Risk Committee
in respect of the Company’s Liquidity Policy, Risk Appetite Statement, Operational Risk
Policy, Treasury Investment Policy and Interest Rate Risk Policy and any significant changes
to those policies to be determined by the Board;



determine the level of liquidity risk tolerance to be approved by the Board and the liquidity
management policy adapted to the level of risk tolerance, and set up the procedures,
systems, limits and tools to identify, measure and manage the liquidity risk; review the
adequacy of such procedures, systems, limits and tools by controlling the evolution of the
liquidity and communicate at least twice per year the results of their analyses to the Board and
the Risk Committee



determine and review, as often as necessary and at least once per year, the risk global limits
to be approved by the Board;



more generally, ensure that risks posed to the Company by its clearing and activities linked to
the clearing are duly addressed;

(b)

with respect to compliance and internal controls, the Managers in Charge and other members of
the Senior Management of the Company (if any) shall:



determine the compliance policies and procedures of the Company that promote the
Company's objectives, jointly with the Board;



determine, implement and amend if necessary the effective Company’s risk, compliance and
internal control processes and procedures (subject to regular review and testing and control of
their efficiency );



provide the Board and the Risk Committee with information on a regular basis, and at least
once per year, on (i) the essential items and main lessons which can be drawn from the
analysis and follow-up of the activity and results of the Company and the LCH Group, (ii) the
measures taken to ensure the continuity of the activity and the assessment of the efficiency of
the current arrangements, and (iii) the measures taken to ensure the control of the outsourced
activities and the potential risks arising therefrom for the Company;



ensure that sufficient resources are devoted to compliance.

Conflicts of Interest
Subject to Article 14.18 and applicable Regulatory Requirements, a Director shall be authorised by the
Board to act or continue to act as a Director of the Company notwithstanding that at the time of his/her
appointment or subsequently he/she also:



holds office as a director of, or holds any other office or employment with, any other member of the
LCH Group or the LSEG Group;



holds office as a director of, or holds any other office or employment with, any other Eligible
Institution that is a shareholder;



participates in any scheme, transaction or arrangement for the benefit of the employees or former
employees of the Company or any other member of the LCH Group or the LSEG Group (including
any pension fund or retirement, death or disability scheme or other bonus or employee benefit
scheme); or



is interested directly or indirectly in any shares or debentures (or any rights to acquire shares or

15

debentures) in the Company or any other member of the LCH Group or the LSEG Group;
and such authorisation shall also apply to a conflicting interest or duty that subsequently arises as a result of such
office, employment, participation or interest.
14.2

A majority of the Independent Directors (in consultation with the Company's Head of Compliance and
Public Affairs (or his or her designee)) may, in accordance with Article 14.18, authorise any matter
proposed to them which would, if not so authorised, involve a breach by a Director of his/her duty to
avoid Conflicts of Interest.

14.3

Any authorisation under Article 14.2 will be effective only if:



any requirement as to the quorum at the Board meeting at which the matter is considered is met
without counting the Director in question or any other Director interested in the matter under
consideration; and



the matter was agreed to without such Directors voting or would have been agreed to if such
Directors' votes had not been counted.

14.4

The Board may give any authorisation under Article 14.2 upon such terms as it thinks fit. The Board
may vary or terminate any such authorisation at any time.

14.5

For the purposes of this Article 14, a Conflict of Interest includes a conflict of interest and duty and a
conflict of duties, and interest includes both direct and indirect interests.

14.6

A Director shall be under no duty to the Company with respect to any information which he/she obtains
or has obtained otherwise than as a Director and in respect of which he/she owes a duty of
confidentiality to another person. In particular the Director shall not be in breach of the general duties
he/she owes to the Company if he/she:



fails to disclose any such information to the Board or to any Director or other officer or employee of
the Company; or



does not use or apply any such information in performing his/her duties as a Director.

However, to the extent that his/her relationship with that other person gives rise to a Conflict of Interest or
possible Conflict of Interest, this Article 14.6 applies only if the existence of that relationship has been
authorised pursuant to Articles 14.1 or 14.2.
14.7

Where the existence of a Director's relationship with another person has been authorised pursuant to
Articles 14.1 or 14.2 and his/her relationship with that person gives rise to a Conflict of Interest or
possible Conflict of Interest, such Director shall not be in breach of the general duties he/she owes to
the Company if at his/her discretion or upon suggestion of the Board or any Committee he/she:



absents him/herself from a meeting of the Board or a Committee at which any matter relating to the
Conflict of Interest or possible Conflict of Interest will or may be discussed or from the discussion of
any such matter at a meeting or otherwise; or



makes arrangements not to receive documents and information relating to any matter which gives
rise to the Conflict of Interest or possible Conflict of Interest sent or supplied by or on behalf of the
Company or for such documents and information to be received and read by a professional adviser
on his/her behalf;

for so long as he/she reasonably believes such Conflict of Interest (or possible Conflict of Interest) subsists.
14.8

The provisions of Articles 14.6 and 14.7 are without prejudice to any equitable principle or rule of law

16

which may excuse the Director from:


disclosing information, in circumstances where disclosure would otherwise be required under these
Terms of Reference; or



attending meetings or discussions or receiving documents and information as referred to in
Article 14.7, in circumstances where such attendance or receiving such documents and information
would otherwise be required under these Terms of Reference.

14.9

Subject to Article 24, a Director who is in any way, directly or indirectly, interested in a proposed
transaction or arrangement with the Company shall declare the nature and extent of his/her interest to
the Board before the Company enters into the transaction or arrangement.

14.10

Subject to Article 24, a Director who is in any way, directly or indirectly, interested in a transaction or
arrangement that has been entered into by the Company shall declare the nature and extent of his/her
interest to the Board as soon as is reasonably practicable, unless the interest has already been
declared under Article 14.9.

14.11

Subject to Article 24, any declaration required by Article 14.9. may (but need not) be made at a Board
meeting or by notice in writing. Any declaration required by Article 14.10 must be made at a Board
meeting or by notice in writing.

14.12

If a declaration made under Article 14.9 or 14.10 proves to be, or becomes, inaccurate or incomplete, a
further declaration must be made as appropriate.

14.13

Subject to Article 24, a Director need not declare an interest under this Article 14:



if it cannot reasonably be regarded as likely to give rise to a Conflict of Interest;



if, or to the extent that, the Board is already aware of it (and for this purpose the Board is treated as
aware of anything of which it ought reasonably to be aware);



if he/she is not aware of his/her interest or is not aware of the transaction or arrangement in question
(and for this purpose a Director is treated as being aware of matters of which he/she ought
reasonably to be aware).

14.14

Subject to the provisions of the law and provided that he/she has declared the nature and extent of any
direct or indirect interest of his/hers in accordance with this Article 14, where Article 14.13 applies and
no declaration of interest is required, or where Article 14.1 applies, a Director notwithstanding his/her
office:



may be a party to, or otherwise be interested in, any transaction or arrangement with the Company or
in which the Company is directly or indirectly interested;



may act by him/herself or through his/her firm in a professional capacity for the Company (otherwise
than as auditor), and in any such case on such terms as to remuneration and otherwise as the Board
may decide; or



may be a director or other officer of, or employed by, or a party to any transaction or arrangement
with, or otherwise be interested in, any corporate body:


in which the Company is directly or indirectly interested as shareholder or otherwise; or



which is the parent undertaking of the Company or a subsidiary undertaking of any parent
undertaking of the Company; or



with which he/she has such a relationship at the request or direction of the Company or any

17

parent undertaking of the Company or a subsidiary undertaking of any parent undertaking of
the Company.
14.15

A Director shall not, by reason of his/her office, be accountable to the Company for any remuneration
or other benefit which he/she derives from any office or employment or from any transaction or
arrangement or from any interest in any body corporate:



the acceptance, entry into or existence of which has been authorised pursuant to Articles 14.1 or
14.2; or



which he/she is permitted to hold or enter into pursuant to Article 14.14 or otherwise pursuant to
these Terms of Reference;

nor shall the receipt of any such remuneration or other benefit constitute a breach of his/her duty not to
accept benefits from third parties. No transaction or arrangement authorised or permitted pursuant to Article
14.1, 14.2 or ‎14.14 or otherwise pursuant to these Terms of Reference shall be liable to be avoided on the
ground of any such interest or benefit.
14.16

Subject to the terms of the Relationship Agreement, a Director nominated by a shareholder of
LCH.Clearnet Group Limited (or that Director's alternate) may not provide to the shareholder of
LCH.Clearnet Group Limited which nominated him any information which he or she receives by virtue
of being a Director without the consent of a majority of the Independent Directors. The Independent
Directors may give such consent either generally or in relation to specific information, and may vary or
withdraw such consent at their absolute discretion.

14.17

Without prejudice to the Director’s disclosure obligations under the law and these Terms of Reference,
but subject to Articles 4.2 above, 14.18 and 24 below, a Director may:



vote at any meeting of the Board or of a Committee on any resolution and be counted in the quorum
present at a meeting in relation to any resolution; or



participate in any decision unanimously taken;

concerning a transaction or arrangement with the Company or in which the Company is interested, or
concerning any other matter in which the Company is interested, notwithstanding that the Director is
interested in that transaction, arrangement or matter or has in relation to it a duty which conflicts or may
conflict with the interests of the Company in relation to it.
14.18

If a majority of the Independent Directors (in consultation with the Company's Head of Compliance and
Public Affairs (or his or her designee)) determine that there is a conflict of interest, pursuant to Articles
14.1 to 14.15, between:
(a)

(i) a shareholder of LCH.Clearnet Group Limited which is connected to a Director by virtue of his
employment or directorship (a "Conflicted Shareholder") and (ii) the Company or any other
member of the LCH Group due to litigation, arbitration or other dispute, or the proposed entry
into, material variation or termination of a contract, between any member of the LCH Group and
the Conflicted Shareholder; or

(b)

(i) a Conflicted Shareholder other than LSEG and (ii) the Company or any other member of the
LCH Group due to a matter other than those set out in (a) above;

each of (a) and (b) being a "Conflict Situation", then any Director connected to such Conflicted
Shareholder shall abstain him/herself from attending any meeting (or part of a meeting) or participating in
discussions or voting on any resolution at meetings of the Board or any Committee which relate to the
relevant Conflict Situation, or from receiving confidential information concerning such Conflict Situation,
unless a majority of the Independent Directors, in consultation with the Company's Head of Compliance and

18

Public Affairs (or his or her designee) agree otherwise.
Article 15.

Committees of the Board

Committees established by the Board shall be responsible for preparing some of the deliberations of the Board and
submitting to the Board their opinions, proposals and recommendations.
Committees may, in the exercise of their duties, after having informed the Chairman, carry out at the Company's
expense any study that may inform the deliberations of the Board. In carrying out its duties, the Committees may
interview the LCH Group management as well as auditors.
There are four standing committees which assist the Company: the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee, the
Remuneration Committee and the Group Nomination Committee. Each Committee is composed of Directors or other
individuals with specific skills in given areas.
In addition to these standing Committees, the Board may establish one or more ad hoc Committees.
The Group Nomination Committee is a LCH Group level committee but can make recommendations to the Board in
relation to the Company.
The proceedings of the Committees shall be governed by those provisions of the articles of association of the
Company and of these Terms of Reference which regulate the proceedings of Directors so far as they apply.
Article 16.

Audit Committee

Organisation and functioning of the Company's Audit Committee is detailed in the Terms of reference of the Audit
Committee from time to time.
These terms of reference are reviewed annually and are subject to approval of the Board. These terms of reference
shall be on substantially similar terms to the terms of reference of the audit committee of LCH.Clearnet Group
Limited, subject to any changes required by the regulators of LCH Group or as a result of applicable law or
regulation, including with regard to the composition of the Company's Audit Committee.
LSEG shall be entitled to nominate a director (or, following the appointment by LSEG of one independent nonexecutive director as an LSEG Director to the LCH.Clearnet Group board, other LSEG Audit Representative) to the
Company's Audit Committee.
Article 17.

Risk Committee

Organisation and functioning of the Company's Risk Committee is detailed in the terms of reference of the Risk
Committee from time to time.
These terms of reference are reviewed annually and are subject to approval of the Board.
LSEG shall be entitled to nominate to the Company's Risk Committee:


for so long as LSEG has a Significant Interest in LCH.Clearnet Group Limited, the vice-chairman (or such
other person as LSEG chooses); and



for so long as LSEG has a Material Interest in LCH.Clearnet Group Limited, one representative,

in each case, provided that such person has the skills and experience commensurate with such a role.
Article 18.

Group Nomination Committee

Organisation and functioning of the Group Nomination Committee is detailed in the terms of reference of the
Nomination Committee from time to time

19

These terms of reference are reviewed annually and are subject to approval of the board of LCH.Clearnet Group
Limited, the Board. the Boards of any other entities within the LCH Group from time to time and LSEG (for so long as
LSEG is entitled to exercise or control the exercise of at least 40% of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially
all matters at general meetings of LCH Clearnet Group Limited).
If the Company establishes its own nomination committee, such committee shall adopt terms of reference on
substantially similar terms to the terms of reference of the Group Nomination Committee, subject to any changes
required by the regulators of LCH Group or as a result of applicable law or regulation, including with regard to the
composition of such nomination committee.
LSEG shall be entitled to nominate a director, who is a director appointed by LSEG on the board of any LCH Group
company (or other LSEG NomCom Representative) to the Company's nomination committee.
Article 19.

Remuneration Committee

The Company has established its own Remuneration Committee and has therefore adopted terms of reference
which take into account the remuneration policy and principles applied by the remuneration committee of
LCH.Clearnet Group Limited (Group) and the remuneration committee of LSEG for its executive management.
Organisation and functioning of the Remuneration Committee is detailed in the LCH.Clearnet SA terms of reference
of the Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors from time to time. These terms of reference are reviewed
annually.
Such terms of reference may be amended with the approval of the Board only and (for so long as LSEG is entitled to
exercise or control the exercise of at least 40 per cent of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at
general meetings in the Company and only to the extent that LSEG's rights or interests in those paragraphs are
being amended) the consent of LSEG.
The Remuneration Committee shall also be mindful of its obligation to operate in accordance with the terms set out
in clause 12 of the Relationship Agreement between inter alia LCH Group and LSEG, as amended from time to time.
Eventually, for so long as LSEG is entitled to exercise or control the exercise of at least 5 per cent of the votes able
to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings in the Company, LSEG shall be entitled to nominate
one independent non-executive director of the board of LSEG (who may also be, but is not required to be, a director
appointed to the Board of the Company by LSEG) to the Remuneration Committee. Ideally such independent nonexecutive director of the board of LSEG would also be a member of LSEG's remuneration committee.
Article 20.

Remuneration of non-executive Directors

Non-executive Directors may only receive a fixed annual sum as compensation for their activity (as Directors and/or
Committees members), the amount of which would be decided by the shareholders' meeting.
The Board may decide to entrust certain Directors with specific tasks or services for and on behalf of the Company.
Directors shall on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee be entitled to exceptional remuneration as
the Board may determine in respect of these specific tasks or services, excluding the Independent Directors.
No Independent Director or non-executive Director may receive performance-based remuneration for their services.
Article 21.

Reimbursement of expenses

Expenses regarding travel, accommodation, food services and the tasks of Directors related to Board meetings,
Committee meetings or any other meeting regarding the work of the Board or its Committees, shall be covered or
shall be subject to reimbursement by the Company, upon the presentation of receipts.
The Secretary receives and verifies the aforementioned receipts and sees to their payment or to the reimbursement
of the amounts due.

20

Article 22.

Training

Upon their appointment or throughout the duration of their term, each Director can receive training regarding the
activities of the Company as deemed necessary for the fulfilment of their tasks.
Any Director who wishes to receive training on his/her role as a Director or the specific features of the Company may
request it at any time. One or more ad hoc training sessions will then be set up which will include meetings with the
executive officers.
Information on the specific accounting, financial and operational features of the Company is made available to all
members of the Audit Committee on request.
Article 23.

Evaluation of the Board

Each year, a questionnaire evaluating the Board's performance is submitted to each Director.
This questionnaire covers the Board’s activities demonstrating its role and responsibilities, organisation, operation
and training policy. The analysis of the questionnaire is done anonymously and the results shall be presented at the
last meeting of the Board for the year. The results of this evaluation as well as the follow up measures that may be
decided shall be outlined in the minutes of the meeting.
Article 24.

Related party agreements between the Company and a manager, a Director or a shareholder

Save for transactions entered into by the Company in the ordinary course of business and transactions entered into
two companies if one of them holds, directly or indirectly, the entire share capital of the other (after deduction of the
minimum number of shares required to comply with article L. 225-1 of the French Commercial Code), agreements
between the Company and its Chairman, its CEO, one of its Deputy-CEO (if any), one of its Directors, or one of its
shareholders holding over 10% of the voting rights of the Company, or in the case of a company which is a
shareholder of the Company, agreements with the entity that controls this shareholder, shall be subject to the
authorisation, verification and approval procedure provided for in the French commercial code. The same applies to
agreements in which one of the above persons has an indirect interest or where they enter into an agreement with
the Company through an intermediary.
Agreements between the Company and an entity where the CEO of the Company, one of the Deputy-CEO of the
Company (if any) or one of the Directors of the Company is a shareholder, a partner with unlimited liability, a
manager, a director, a member of the supervisory board or, in general, a manager of that entity, are also subject to
the aforementioned procedure.
Directors (whether legal persons or not) are prohibited, under penalty of nullity of the contract, from entering into
contracts in relation to obtaining from the Company (i) loans or overdrafts on a current account, or (ii) an
endorsement or guarantee of the Directors' commitments towards third parties. This prohibition also applies to the
spouses, ascendants and descendants of the Directors as well as to all intermediaries.

21

EXHIBIT A-4
LCH.CLEARNET SA
(the Company)
TERMS OF REFERENCE OF THE RISK COMMITTEE
OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Adopted by the board of directors on 8 October 2015
1.

COMPOSITION

1.1

The Risk Committee (the Committee) shall, subject to paragraph 1.4 below and
subject to any co-option as referred to in paragraph 1.10 below, comprise:

1.2

1.1.1

such number of independent non-executive directors that is required
from time to time each of whom has been appointed either (i) in
accordance with, and satisfies the criteria for independence set out in,
the terms of reference of the LCH.Clearnet group nomination committee
or (ii) in the case of the Vice Chairman of the Committee (the Vice
Chairman), who has been appointed pursuant to paragraph 1.4 below,
satisfies all applicable corporate governance standards of independence
(each, an Independent Director). One of the Independent Directors will
be the Chairman of the Committee (the Committee Chairman)
nominated by the Board and one will be the Vice Chairman of the
Committee, if relevant, appointed pursuant to paragraph 1.4 below;

1.1.2

such number of members who represent a clearing member of the
Company or part of the group to which a clearing member belongs that
is required from time to time and who have significant expertise and
experience in market, credit or liquidity risk management or other risk
disciplines related to CCP risk management(each, a User); and

1.1.3

such number of representatives of end-client of Users (who shall have
significant expertise and experience in risk-related, audit, regulatory or
compliance issues) that is required from time to time (each, a Client);
provided that: (1) the Committee Chairman is an Independent Director;
(2) at least 35% but not more than 50% of Committee members are
Independent Directors; (3) not more than 50% of Committee members
are Users; (4) at least 10% but not more than 50% of Committee
members are Clients; and (5) no User, or Client representatives are also
employees of the LCH.Clearnet group (the Group).

The following individuals may be invited to attend the meetings of the Committee on
relevant matters from time to time, in a non-voting capacity:
1.2.1

the Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Company;

1.2.2

ex officio the Chief Executive Officer of the Company;

1.2.3

ex officio the Chief Risk Officer of the Company who shall be
responsible for all technical issues and recommendations made to the
Committee;

-1-

1.2.4

ex officio the Group Chief Risk Officer;

1.2.5

ex officio the Chief Executive Officer of LCH.Clearnet Group Limited;

1.2.6

ex officio the Head of Financial Risk of the London Stock Exchange
Group plc, or their nominated delegate;

1.2.7

ex officio a representative of Euronext who shall be a specialist in risk
related , audit, regulatory or compliance issues , or their nominated
delegate;

1.2.8

such other individuals within the Group as considered appropriate by the
Committee; and

1.3

such other risk expert individuals who are representatives of Users of the Company
(who are not already represented by a voting member of the Committee) as
considered appropriate by the Committee (hereafter the (“Risk Expert Attendees”).
Members of the Committee shall be appointed by the Board in consultation with the
Committee Chairman, save (i) for the Vice Chairman or who shall be appointed
pursuant to paragraph 1.4 below and (ii) in the circumstances described in paragraph
2.7 below.

1.4

For so long as the London Stock Exchange Group plc (LSEG) is entitled to exercise
or control the exercise of at least 40 per cent. of the votes able to be cast on all or
substantially all matters at general meetings of the Company, LSEG shall be entitled
to appoint the Vice Chairman to the Committee provided that such person has the
skills and experience commensurate with such a role.

1.5

Committee members that are not Independent Directors (each, an External
Committee Member) attend in their capacity as risk experts and represent the clearing
members or end-user clients (as the case may be) as a whole.

1.6

Only one External Committee Member from each User or Client (or, if any are part of
a group, the group to which such User or Client belongs), is permitted. External
Committee Members will do their best to contribute both their own expertise and the
expertise of the User or Client (or group, if appropriate) for which they work for all
markets and products which the User or Client (or group, if appropriate) clears with
the Company. Where expertise other than the specialty of the External Committee
Member is required, he will consult internally prior to the Committee meeting.
Papers will be issued in good time to permit this.

1.7

User and Client membership of the Committee will be reviewed on an annual basis at
a minimum. The metric for determining which Users and Clients are members of the
Committee will be based on factors including the asset classes cleared, volume
cleared, the level of contribution to the relevant default funds and whether they have
previously been a voting member of the Committee.

1.8

As far as Users‟ membership of the Committee is concerned, a rotation between Risk
Experts shall be performed, as previously approved by the Board, in accordance with
the terms set out in Appendix 1.

-2-

1.9

The Company secretary or his or her appointed nominee shall be secretary of the
Committee (the Committee Secretary).

1.10

The Committee Chairman, Vice Chairman and Committee Secretary will together
seek to ensure that the Committee has a suitable range of expertise to consider and
evaluate the risk matters placed before it, with particular reference to changes in the
risks managed by the Company.

1.11

The Committee may co-opt any person, either for consideration of an individual
subject or for a longer period.

1.12

The Committee may set up one or more advisory groups for the purpose of reporting
back to it on specific issues. The Committee shall not delegate any of its powers or
responsibilities set out herein to any such advisory group.

1.13

Subject to paragraph 1.4, the Board may remove members of the Committee with or
without cause.It is acknowledged that competent regulatory authorities shall have the
right to request to attend Committee meetings in a non-voting capacity and be duly
informed of the activities and decisions of the Committee.

2.

CONDUCT OF MEETINGS

2.1

Notice of meetings shall be given by the Committee Chairman, or the Committee
Secretary at the request of the Committee Chairman.

2.2

Save for in exceptional circumstances, (i) notice of each meeting confirming the
venue, time and date, together with an agenda of items to be discussed, shall be
forwarded to each member of the Committee and any other person required to attend
prior to the date of the meeting in a timely manner and (ii) supporting papers shall be
sent to Committee members, and to other attendees, as appropriate, at least 72 hours
before the start of each meeting.

2.3

In exceptional circumstances the Chairman as the discretion to convene a meeting of
the Committee on short notice.

2.4

Meetings shall be held a minimum of six times per year, or more frequently according
to the business to be considered.

2.5

Other than in exceptional circumstances, all meetings shall be held in one of the
registered offices of the Group entities.

2.6

Committee members, including External Committee Members are encouraged to
attend Committee meetings in person. Meetings can however be attended by audio or
video conference facilities if necessary.

2.7

A quorum shall consist of a majority of the Committee members, including the
Committee Chairman or Vice Chairman who shall at his sole discretion decide
whether to defer decisions or recommendations on certain items in the light of the
balance of attendance. Exceptionally, the Committee Chairman or Vice Chairman
may nominate another Independent Director to represent them. Without prejudice to
the above, in the event that the quorum requirement would not be met, the Committee
Chairman, for the purpose of a specific meeting, may appoint a Risk Expert as a User
-3-

Member (hereafter a Back-up Member) from a list approved by the Board and in the
order established by such a list. In any event, the Committee Chairman shall ensure,
when appointing a Back-up Member, that there is an appropriate representation of
clearing members as a whole and shall report such an appointment to the Board.
2.8

Decisions will be taken by consensus. If no consensus can be reached then the topic
shall be put to a vote. All voting members of the Committee have one vote. The
decision will be taken by simple majority of those present at the meeting. A decision
requires the majority of the Independent Directors present at the meeting to vote in
favour.

2.9

The Committee Chairman and/or Vice Chairman shall report to the Board of the
Company on the discussions, decisions and recommendations of the Committee in
order for the Board to formally ratify these decisions and recommendations. The
Committee Secretary shall make all minutes available to the Board and to the
respective Committee Chairmen of the Audit Committee of the Company and of
LCH.Clearnet Group Limited.

2.10

The Chief Risk Officer of the Company shall report to the Board of LCH.Clearnet
Group Limited on the discussions, decisions and recommendations of the Committee
to formally ratify those decisions and recommendations which affect the Group.

PURPOSE OF THE COMMITTEE
3.

RISK APPETITE
To consider and comment on aspects of the Company's risk appetite, tolerance and
strategy, taking account of the current and prospective macroeconomic and financial
environment, as reported upon regularly at Committee meetings.

4.

EXECUTIVE RISK COMMITTEE

4.1

To receive advice, recommendations and updates (as applicable) from the Executive
Risk Committee of the Company (ERCo) in respect of the areas to which ERCo's
delegated powers, described in these Terms of Reference, apply and in respect of
proposed revisions to the risk policies and risk methodology subject to the ERCo's
oversight and review.

4.2

To receive a detailed report from the ERCo which includes (i) the risk profile of the
Company and the Group on a monthly basis and its evolution over time, (ii)
qualitative comments from the ERCo and the Chief Risk Officer of the Company in
relation to areas of potential concern, and (iii) a particular focus on concentration risk
and members' margin circumstances.

-4-

5.

CLARIFICATION OF THE POWERS OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OFFICER OF THE COMPANY

5.1

The Chief Executive Officer of the Company has responsibility for all risk decisions
taken within the framework of agreed risk policies. The exercise of these powers is
considered necessary to formally preserve the independence of risk management, to
avoid conflicts of interest if the Board or Committee was involved in the decision
taking, and to ensure a timely response to situations which may develop or deteriorate
rapidly.

5.2

These powers of the Chief Executive Officer establish a boundary line between the
Committee's role in respect of policy review and recommendation and executive
responsibility for risk management actions within the agreed policy framework.

5.3

The Chief Executive Officer may delegate the powers necessary to achieve the
performance and implementation of any and all of his responsibilities and decisions
referred to in these Terms of Reference to the Chief Risk Officer of the Company.

6.

MEMBERSHIP

6.1

To review, on a periodic basis, criteria for initial admission to clearing membership
and continuing membership criteria, to consider proposals for new criteria, and, as
appropriate, to recommend any changes to the relevant decision-making body.

6.2

To review decisions of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or his delegate
relating to approvals and denials of membership applications.

6.3

To review annually the Counterparty Credit Risk Policy and, as appropriate, to
recommend any changes to the Board. This review should include data on the
previous year's changes in overall membership, specific aggregate information on the
nature of the new members (if any) and their risk profile (if different from the existing
membership), together with an assessment of any potential policy implications.

6.4

Clarification of approvals of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company:
6.4.1

Pursuant to paragraph 6.1 above, application by a current clearing
member to extend its clearing activities vis-a-vis the Company may be
approved by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company subject to the
Committee and the Board being notified. The Chief Executive Officer
of the Company may, at his discretion, refer any such applications for
consideration by the Committee.

6.4.2

Pursuant to paragraph 6.3 above and without prejudice to the
Committee's authority under paragraph 6.2 above, new membership
applications may be approved by the Chief Executive Officer of the
Company subject to the applicant meeting the criteria determined by the
Committee (and endorsed by the Board) subject to the Committee being
notified of any such approvals. If an applicant is rejected by the Chief
Executive Officer of the Company, it may appeal to the Board. If,
before coming to a decision, the Chief Executive Officer of the
Company has particular concerns regarding the applicant, he may

-5-

exceptionally refer such an application for consideration by the
Committee.
7.

NEW CLEARING ACTIVITY: NEW MARKETS AND CONTRACTS

7.1

To consider the risk controls designed or adapted for the clearing of a new market
(whether in the form of an exchange, or of a new product-specific OTC clearing
service) or new class of instruments, and to recommend to the Board for approval.

7.2

To consider the risk controls designed or adapted for the clearing of a new contract
proposed by a cleared exchange, or a new product type proposed for the Company's
clearing service, and to recommend to the Board for approval.

7.3

To consider the risk controls designed or adapted for the continued clearing of an
exchange contract or OTC clearing service product whose proposed terms have been
significantly modified, and to make a recommendation to the Board on the
continuation of clearing.

7.4

To review, on an annual basis (or more frequently if deemed necessary), the risk
policy on the eligibility of new products accepted for clearing, to consider proposals
for the amendment of the policy, and, as appropriate, to recommend any changes to
the Board.

7.5

To review, on an annual basis (or more frequently if deemed necessary), the policy
containing the principles for managing the counterparty risk of other central
counterparties with which an interoperability link has been established and, as
appropriate, to recommend any changes to the Board.

7.6

Clarification of approvals of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company:
7.6.1

Pursuant to paragraph 7.2 above and without prejudice to the
Committee's authority contained therein, approval for the clearing of
new contracts or products which present no novel risk features and
require no amendment of risk controls may be granted by the Chief
Executive Officer of the Company, subject to the Committee being
notified of any such approvals. The Chief Executive Officer may, at his
discretion, refer any such applications for consideration by the
Committee.

7.6.2

In cases where the proposal is that the Company should clear a
potentially large number of new contracts or products, none of which
present novel risk features, the proposal will be presented for Committee
consideration because of the proposed scale of the extension of clearing
The Committee will make a recommendation to the Board for approval.

8.

MARGINING

8.1

To consider proposals for significant amendments to, or the introduction of new,
variation margin methodologies, and, as appropriate, to recommend any changes to
the Board.

-6-

8.2

To review, on an annual basis (or more frequently if deemed necessary), the initial
margin policies, consider amendments to the policies and, as appropriate, to
recommend any changes to the Board.

8.3

To consider proposals for significant amendments to, or the introduction of new,
initial margin methodologies, and, as appropriate, to recommend any changes to the
Board.

8.4

To review, on an annual basis (or more frequently if deemed necessary), the
company's intra-day calling policy, to consider proposals for the adoption of a new
policy, and, as appropriate, to recommend any changes to the Board.

8.5

Clarification of powers of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company:
8.5.1

8.6

The establishment and regular review of initial margin parameters at
contract level, the introduction of higher initial margin parameters or
other financial requirements specific to a member or a group of
members, and intra-day calls under the current policy.

Clarification of powers delegated to the Chief Risk Officer of the Company:
8.6.1

In the context of initial margin rate setting policies approved by the
Committee and the Board, and with reference to the powers of the Chief
Executive Officer of the Company in respect of initial margin rates, the
Chief Risk Officer of the Company in his role as Director, Risk
Management of the Company, shall ensure that any rate that does not
directly flow from any of the policies is documented as exceptional
treatment. The reason for such treatment must be either that a
disproportionate and unrealistic margin rate would otherwise have been
established or that application of the documented policy would lower a
rate or rates at a time of significant volatility and run a high risk of rapid
reversal. The Chief Risk Officer of the Company will ensure that the
Committee is informed of such treatment in the case of major contracts
as part of standard reporting of margin adequacy.

9.

DEFAULT FUND, DEFAULT RULES AND DEFAULT PROCEDURES

9.1

To review quarterly, and on an ad hoc basis, as initiated by the Chief Risk Officer of
the Company, the adequacy of the default funds of the Company (the Default Funds)
on the basis of stress-testing figures, and to recommend any change in the size of the
Default Funds to the Board for approval. To review, on an annual basis (or more
frequently if deemed necessary), the Default Fund policies and recommend any
changes to these policies to the Board for approval.

9.2

To consider any adjustment to the stress testing model or the assumptions used in the
model and to recommend any changes to the Board.

9.3

To consider any proposals to adopt a new stress-testing model and to recommend to
the Board for approval.

9.4

To consider any proposals for changes to the Default Fund Rules and, as appropriate,
make recommendations to the Board for approval.
-7-

9.5

To consider the default management policy for managing a default across individual
and multiple product lines and to make recommendations to the Board for approval.

9.6

To consider as soon as possible after a member default, the default procedures taken
and the continued adequacy of the Default Rules and, as appropriate, make
recommendations to the Board.

9.7

The Committee will be notified of any significant amendments, additions or deletions
to the stress testing scenarios. The Committee may also request new scenarios to be
added to the stress testing model.

9.8

Clarification of powers of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company:
9.8.1

Pursuant to paragraph 9.1 above, the periodic recalculation of the
Default Fund size and contributions, the stress test parameters as well as
the review of the cap and floor of the Default Fund where applied,
within the scope of the policy approved by the Board.

9.8.2

Pursuant to paragraph 9.5 above, default declaration and management
are a Chief Executive Officer responsibility, subject to a commitment to
notify the Board and convene a meeting of the Board if appropriate.

10.

PAYMENT AND MONEY SETTLEMENT ARRANGEMENTS, BANK
EXPOSURES, LIQUIDITY RISK AND COLLATERAL POLICY

10.1

To review, on an annual basis (or more frequently if deemed necessary), the
Company's
payment
and
money
settlement
arrangements
and
collateral custody arrangements, to consider proposals for modification of those
arrangements and, as appropriate, to recommend changes to the Board.

10.2

To review, on an annual basis (or more frequently if deemed necessary), the
Company's 'Investment Risk Policy' for setting bank limits and 'Liquidity Risk Policy'
for determining liquidity needs, to consider proposals to change these policies, and, as
appropriate, to recommend any changes to the Board for approval.

10.3

To review, on an annual basis (or more frequently if deemed necessary), the
Company's policy on acceptable forms of collateral contained within the Collateral
Risk Policy together with the haircuts applied, to consider proposals to change these
policies, and, as appropriate, to recommend any changes to the Board.

10.4

Clarification of discretion of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company:
10.4.1

Pursuant to paragraph 10.2 above, to decrease or remove investments or
a counterparty's investment limits if there are concerns over the
investment or counterparty for any reason.

10.4.2

To approve proposals for the periodic adjustment of exposure limits
within the scope of the Credit Risk Management Framework approved
by the Committee.

-8-

10.4.3

To change repo limits in line with the size of the cash portfolio to ensure
that the assigned limits do not act as a constraint on securing the
portfolio.

10.4.4

If any of the limits or restrictions detailed in the Collateral Risk Policy
and/or the Investment Risk Policy are breached, that breach must be (i)
notified to the Chief Risk Officer and Head of CaLM, (ii) signed off by
either the Chief Risk Officer or the Head of CaLM and (iii) reported to
the Committee, the ERCo, the Chief Executive Officers of the Company
and of LCH.Clearnet Group Limited and the Audit Committees of the
Company and of LCH.Clearnet Group Limited.

11.

OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT

11.1

To review, on an annual basis (or more frequently if deemed necessary), the
Company's Operational Risk Policy and to consider proposals for modification of
those arrangements and to make recommendations to the Board for approval.

11.2

On request by the Audit Committee or the Board to review and provide advice on any
aspects of the Company’s operational risk management framework.

12.

REGULATORY ISSUES

12.1

To consider any risk policy-related regulatory issues referred to it, and to make
recommendations to the Board.

12.2

To consider any issue relating to the outsourcing of functions which may impact
the risk management of the CCP and periodically review any relevant outsourcing
policy implemented by the Company.

12.3

To ensure that the Company promptly reports to the relevant regulatory authorities of
any decision in which the Board has rejected a recommendation of, or superseded an
action by, the Committee, such report to contain at a minimum the following:

12.4

12.3.1

the Committee's recommendation or action, as applicable;

12.3.2

the rationale for such recommendation or action;

12.3.3

the rationale of the Board for rejecting such recommendation or
superseding such action; and

12.3.4

the course of action the Board decided to take contrary to such
recommendation or action.

The Committee Chairman, or his or her designee, will make available to the Chief
Compliance Officer of the Company such information relating to the Committee's
work as is necessary for the Chief Compliance Officer of the Company to draft and
submit:
12.4.1

the Company's annual compliance report (i) to the ACP as required
under French law and regulation in force from time to time, (ii) to the
FSA, Treasury and OFT as required under UK law and regulations in
force from time to time, and (iii) to the CFTC as required under the
-9-

CFTC Rules in force from time to time and any successor regulation;
and
12.4.2

any other reports that the Chief Compliance Officer of the Company
may from time to time be required to submit, pursuant to regulatory
requirements.

It is noted that in the event that the Board does not follow a recommendation of the
Committee the Autorité de Contrôle Prudentiel, as the lead regulator of the Company,
will be notified by the Company Secretary.
13.

MISCELLANEOUS

13.1

To discharge any duties ascribed to the Committee in the Group risk policies
reviewed by the Committee from time to time.

13.2

To consider any other matters as directed by the Board.

13.3

To hold joint meetings with the Risk Committee of LCH.Clearnet Limited,
LCH.Clearnet LLC and the Risk Committees of any other operating subsidiaries of
the Group as there may be from time to time.

14.

PUBLICATIONS
The Committee shall ensure that summaries of significant decisions implicating the
public interest, including all decisions relating to (i) open access; (ii) membership;
and (iii) the finding of products acceptable or not acceptable for clearing, including a
description regarding whether the Board has rejected or superseded an action of the
Committee, shall be made public on the Company's website in an up to date, clear and
accurate manner.

15.

REGULAR REPORTS

15.1

The Committee shall consider and review regular reports prepared by the Risk
Management department of the Company which shall cover developments in the
previous three months, or as otherwise determined, in at least the following areas:
15.1.1

Membership (additions, deletions, extensions to business cleared, and
other significant developments, including training provided)

15.1.2

Operation and adequacy of margin rate setting (back testing) and of the
default fund (as revealed by the stress test results)

15.1.3

Operation of Liquidity Risk policy

15.1.4

Operation of Counterparty Credit Risk policy

15.1.5

Operation of Collateral Risk policy

15.1.6

Operation of Payment, Settlement and Custody Risk policy

15.1.7

Operation of Investment Risk Policy; and

15.1.8

Any other material issues which have arisen during the previous three
- 10 -

months for any risk policy or its implementation.
16.

CONFIDENTIALITY AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST

16.1

Without prejudice to any rights LSEG may have in the Relationship Agreement
between the Company and LSEG, all confidential matters considered by the
Committee and any confidential information disclosed to members of the Committee
in connection with their position as a member of the Committee must remain
confidential, notwithstanding the company to which that information relates, nor
whether the member is a director of that company or not, save as required to be
disclosed by law or regulation. Any other persons (with the sole exception of
competent regulatory authorities) involved in the Committee’s work shall either be
bound by undertakings of professional secrecy or by ad hoc confidentiality
agreements with the Committee.

16.2

Conflicts of interest relating to Committee members shall be governed by the relevant
provisions in the reglement interieur of the Company from time to time and those
relevant provisions shall apply to the External Committee Members as if they were
directors of the Company.

17.

HARMONISATION WITH LCH.CLEARNET LIMITED AND/OR
LCH.CLEARNET LLC

17.1

To review any proposals for harmonisation of policies or procedures between the
Company, LCH.Clearnet Limited, LCH.Clearnet LLC and any other operating
subsidiaries of the Group as there may be from time to time, having regard to local
law or regulatory requirements and liquidity characteristics of the relevant entity in
the Group, and, as appropriate, to recommend any changes to the Board.

17.2

In the event that the Risk Committees of the Company, LCH.Clearnet Limited,
LCH.Clearnet LLC and any other operating subsidiaries of the Group as there may be
from time to time cannot agree on the harmonisation issues, the Board of
LCH.Clearnet Group Limited and the Board of the relevant operating subsidiary
together are responsible for the final decision.

18.

RELATIONSHIP WITH THE COMPANY'S AUDIT COMMITTEE

18.1

Internal audits, external audits, investigations and reviews carried out under the
auspices of (and contained in the relevant regular reporting to) the Company's Audit
Committee will cover those departments and teams executing the policies and
methodologies set by the Risk Committee.

19.

AUTHORITY

19.1

The Committee is authorised to: (i) investigate any activity relating to these Terms of
Reference; (ii) seek any information it requires from any employee of the Company in
order to perform its duties; (iii) call any employee to be questioned at a Committee
meeting as and when required; and (iv) obtain at the Company's expense, outside
legal or other professional advice on any matter within its Terms of Reference.

19.2

In particular, the Committee shall have access to: (i) the risk management department
(to assess how the remuneration structure affects the risk profile of the Company); (ii)
the human resource department; (iii) the compliance department (to ensure legal and
- 11 -

regulatory changes are properly implemented); and (iv) the internal audit department
(who shall periodically carry out and report to the Committee on an independent audit
of the design, implementation and effects of the remuneration structure).
20.

OTHER

20.1

Notwithstanding any other provision set out herein, the Committee is solely
accountable to, and reports solely to, the Board of the Company. Without limiting the
foregoing, no decisions made by the Committee under paragraph 6 (Membership) or
paragraph 7 (New Clearing Activity: New Markets and Contracts) may be restricted or
otherwise limited by any body other than the Board of the Company.

20.2

Every member of the Committee shall be given a copy of these Terms of Reference.

20.3

The Committee, in particular the Independent Directors, shall be provided with
appropriate and timely training, both as an induction process and on an ongoing basis,
and provided with access to external consultancy support, when required.

20.4

The Committee shall arrange for periodic reviews of its own performance and, at least
annually, shall arrange for independent internal review of its constitution and these
Terms of Reference to ensure it is operating at maximum effectiveness and
recommend any changes it considers necessary to the Board for approval.

- 12 -

APPENDIX I
Rotation of voting rights Among Users

A number of Risk Experts who attend the Risk Committee fulfil the criteria of Users. The
voting rights of the Risk Committee are rotated between the Risk Experts on a
regular basis (at least once a year), so as to ensure compliance with the quorum
requirements set out in Clause 1.1 of the Terms of Reference.
The following criteria are applied by the Board when rotating the voting rights of the Risk
Committee:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Expertise in matters of risk;
Length of service on the Risk Committee;
Attendance at Risk Committee meetings; and
The Chairman of the Risk Committee being satisfied that the membership of Users
on the Risk Committee is an appropriate representation of the clearing members as a
whole.

- 13 -

EXHIBIT A-5
LCH.CLEARNET SA
(the Company)
TERMS OF REFERENCE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Adopted by the board of directors on 4 December 2014

1.

PURPOSE

1.1

The Audit Committee (the Committee) shall be appointed by the Board of Directors of the
Company (the Board) and shall represent the interests of the Board in the sound financial
management and internal control management of the Company.

1.2

The Committee shall determine whether management has put in place adequate internal
control systems that provide reasonable assurance that corporate objectives will be
achieved and that the Company complies with applicable regulatory requirements, in force
from time to time.

1.3

The Committee shall assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibility relating to:
1.3.1

Review of the Company’s audited financial statements;

1.3.2

Review of the external auditor appointed by the Company (the External Auditor);

1.3.3

Review of the Company’s internal audit function;

1.3.4

Review of the Company’s regulatory compliance;

1.3.5

Review of the Company’s Risk Governance Framework (including its operational risk
framework);Review the Company’s compliance with its risk governance framework,
in particular through review of the Company’s combined assurance report;

1.3.6

Review of the Company’s internal control environment; and

1.3.7

Review of the Company’s Information Security and Business Continuity Planning
programmes.

1.4

The Committee shall keep itself informed of any changes in the laws and regulations
applicable to the audit policy of the Company and the matters for which the Committee is
responsible.

1.5

Nothing in these Terms of Reference shall diminish the responsibility of the Board to
maintain ongoing review of the Company's audit policy.

2.

STRUCTURE AND MEMBERSHIP

2.1

Composition
2.1.1

The Committee shall comprise no fewer than four non-executive directors of the
Board, of which:

2.1.2

2.2

2.3

(a)

no fewer than three shall be independent non-executive directors of the
Board, each of whom has been appointed in accordance with, and satisfies
the criteria for independence set out in, the terms of reference of the
LCH.Clearnet group nomination committee (the Independent Directors) and
one of such Independent Directors shall be appointed chairman of the
Committee (the Committee Chairman);

(b)

one shall be a member of the Risk Committee of LCH.Clearnet SA;

(c)

one shall be a director associated with or connected to LCH.Clearnet Group
Limited shareholders other than exchanges, trading venues, multilateral
trading facilities, alternative trading systems or similar (User Director); and

(d)

for so long as London Stock Exchange Group plc (LSEG) is entitled to exercise
or control the exercise of at least 20 per cent. of the votes able to be cast on
all or substantially all matters at general meetings of LCH.Clearnet Group
Limited (Material Interest), one shall be a director recommended or
approved by LSEG (the LSEG Director) (or, following the appointment of one
independent non-executive director to the Board of LCH.Clearnet Group
Limited by LSEG pursuant to Clause 10.10 of the Relationship Agreement
between the Company and LSEG (RA), the LSEG chief financial officer, the
LSEG chief risk officer or the LSEG head of audit, or any other person of
appropriate seniority and expertise as may be agreed from time to time
between LSEG and the Chairman of the Board (the LSEG Audit
Representative)).

Members of the Committee shall ideally have significant, recent and relevant
financial experience, either by virtue of their experience in the senior executive or
non-executive management or regulation of another financial institution, or as an
auditor or finance director (or holding that responsibility) within a different
company. At least one Committee member should have a professional qualification
from one of the professional accountancy bodies.

Selection and Removal
2.2.1

Subject to paragraph 2.1.1(d), members of the Committee shall be selected and
appointed by the Board at any time in consultation with the Committee Chairman.

2.2.2

Subject to paragraph 2.1.1(d), the Board may remove members of the Committee
with or without cause.

Committee Chairman
2.3.1

The Board normally elects the Committee Chairman. On an exceptional basis and in
the absence of the appointed Committee Chairman, the Committee shall elect a
substitute Committee Chairman from amongst its ranks by majority vote.

2.3.2

For the avoidance of doubt, the Committee Chairman may also be appointed as
Chairman to the audit committees of LCH.Clearnet Limited, LCH.Clearnet Group
Limited and/or LCH.Clearnet LLC.

2.3.3

2.4

2.5

2.6

The Committee Chairman will keep the Committee's composition under review and
shall make proposals to the Board accordingly.

Secretary
2.4.1

The secretary to the Committee (the Committee Secretary) shall be the Company
secretary or such other person as he may nominate.

2.4.2

The Committee shall have access to sufficient resources in order to carry out its
duties, including access to the Company secretariat for assistance as required and,
where deemed necessary or appropriate, to professional advisors.

Notice of Meetings
2.5.1

Notice of meetings shall be given by the Committee Chairman, or the Committee
Secretary at the request of the Committee Chairman.

2.5.2

Unless otherwise agreed, notice of each meeting confirming the venue, time and
date, together with an agenda of items to be discussed, shall be forwarded to each
member of the Committee and any other person required or permitted to attend
prior to the date of the meeting in a timely manner. Supporting papers shall be sent
to Committee members, and to other attendees as appropriate, at the same time.

Frequency of meetings and location
The Committee shall meet as frequently as it determines necessary, but not less frequently
than four times per year and otherwise as required. Other than in exceptional
circumstances, all meetings shall be held in one of the registered offices of the Group
entities. The Committee Chairman, or any other member of the Committee, may call
meetings of the Committee. The External Auditor may request a special meeting at any
time.

2.7

2.8

Attendance
2.7.1

Only members of the Committee have the right to attend Committee meetings.

2.7.2

Members of the Company’s executive, the Head of Internal Audit of the Company
and representatives of the External Auditor may attend the meetings by invitation as
and when appropriate and necessary, in accordance with items on the agenda.

2.7.3

Members of the Committee may hold meetings in person, by telephone or by video
conferences.

Quorum
The quorum for meetings shall be (i) the Committee Chairman, (ii) the User Director, (iii) for
so long as LSEG holds a Material Interest in the Company, the LSEG Director or, following the
appointment of one independent non-executive director to the Board of LCH.Clearnet Group
Limited pursuant to Clause 10.10 of the RA, other LSEG Audit Representative and (iv) one
other member of the Committee. Two of the directors present shall be Independent
Directors and one shall have recent and relevant financial experience. A duly convened
meeting of the Committee at which a quorum is present shall be competent to exercise all or
any of the authorities, powers and discretions vested in or exercisable by the Committee.

2.9

Conduct of Meetings
Except as outlined above, meetings of the Committee shall be conducted in accordance with
the provisions of the Company's articles of association governing the proceedings of
directors.

2.10

Remuneration
The remuneration of Committee members shall be as determined by the Board. No member
of the Committee may receive any consulting, performance, advisory or other compensatory
fee from the Company other than fees paid in his or her capacity as a member of the Board
or as a member of a Committee of the Board.

3.

AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITIES

3.1

The Committee’s role is one of review. The authority and responsibilities set forth do not
reflect nor create any duty or obligation of the Committee to (i) plan or conduct any audit,
although the Committee is responsible for agreeing the programme of audits proposed by
the Internal Audit department and challenging the outcome of the audits, as appropriate, (ii)
determine or certify that the Company’s financial statements are complete, accurate, fairly
presented, or in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or applicable law,
or (iii) guarantee the External Auditor’s report.

3.2

The Committee will hold joint sessions of meetings with the audit committees of
LCH.Clearnet Group Limited, LCH.Clearnet Limited and LCH.Clearnet LLC from time to time
as appropriate.All directors remain equally responsible for the affairs of the Company of
which they are a director, as a matter of law.

3.3

The Committee shall perform the following specific functions:
3.3.1

Review of the Company's Financial Statements
The Committee shall review, discuss with [and challenge where necessary] the
Company’s management and the External Auditor with regard to the Company's
audited financial statements, including its annual and half-yearly reports, and any
other formal announcement relating to its financial performance, before their
approval by the Board, notably concerning:

(a)

Compliance with accounting standards,
requirements as well as any changes;

policies,

practices,

legal

(b)

Major judgmental areas;

(c)

Any significant adjustments arising from the audit;

(d)

The "going-concern" assumption;

(e)

The proposed statement on the directors’ review of the Company’s system
of internal control;

(f)

Other material written communication between the External Auditor and
Company management.

3.3.2

Review of the External Auditor

(a)

Selection. The Committee shall be responsible for making recommendations
to the Board concerning the appointment, evaluation and termination of the
engagement of the External Auditor for the Company. The Committee shall
oversee the selection process for a new External Auditor and if an External
Auditor resigns, the Committee shall investigate the issues leading to this
and decide whether any action is required.

(b)

Independence. The Committee shall take, or recommend that the Board
take, appropriate action to oversee the independence of the External
Auditor. The Committee shall actively engage in dialogue with the External
Auditor concerning any disclosed relationships or services that might impact
upon the objectivity and independence of the External Auditor. It is the
general policy of the Company that the currently engaged External Auditor
will not be asked to tender for any non-audit services with the exception of
tax advice directly related to the Company’s existing business.

(c)

Services and Compensation. The Committee shall discuss with the External
Auditor his proposals regarding the nature, scope and planning of his work
and to ensure proper co-ordination with internal audits planned by the
Company’s Internal Audit department. The Committee shall review from
time to time the operational, control and cost effectiveness of the External
Auditor.

(d)

Review. The Committee shall have ultimate responsibility for overseeing the
External Auditor, including resolution of disagreements between Company
management and the External Auditor regarding financial reporting. It shall
ensure that the External Auditor has the fullest co-operation of staff.

(e)

Access. The Committee has the right to have direct access to the Company's
External Auditor on a confidential basis at any time. It shall meet the
External Auditor without executives of the Company being present at least
once a year.

(f)

Former Employees. The Committee shall agree with the Board a policy on
the employment of former employees of the External Auditor, then
monitoring the implementation of this policy.

(g)

Ethical Standards. The Committee shall monitor the External Auditor's
compliance with relevant ethical and professional guidance on the rotation
of audit partner, the level of fees paid by the Company compared to the
overall fee income of the firm, office and partner and other related
requirements.

(h)

Qualifications. The Committee shall assess annually the qualifications,
expertise and resources of the External Auditor and the effectiveness of the
audit process, which shall include a report from the External Auditor on their
own internal quality procedures.

(i)

Co-ordination. The Committee shall seek to ensure co-ordination with the
activities of the internal audit function.

(j)

3.3.3

Reports. The Committee shall review with the External Auditor:

(i)

the interim and final audits;

(ii)

any matters the External Auditor may wish to discuss;

(iii)

any representation letters required by the External Auditor before
they are signed by management;

(iv)

the management letter and the responses from management; and

(v)

compliance with any codes of conduct of corporate governance
applicable from time to time or which the Board otherwise
determines should be complied with to achieve best practice
corporate governance standards.

Review of the Company's Internal Audit Function
The Committee shall regularly review the functioning of the Internal Audit
department, notably concerning:

(a)

Internal Audit Charter. The Committee shall review from time to time, and
no less frequently than once every three years, the Internal Audit Charter of
the Company.

(b)

Audit Planning. The Committee shall review the annual audit plan prepared
by the Internal Audit department after approval by the CEO of the Company
and ahead of annual submission to the Company’s regulator. In doing so, the
Committee shall determine whether the audit programme provides
appropriate coverage and may request any special tasks or projects to be
included in the plan. The Committee shall also ensure that the plan is
effectively coordinated with the External Auditor and shall respond to any
requests from the LCH.Clearnet Group Audit Committee to vary the internal
audit programme of work, under the supervision of, and subject to the
approval of the Board.

(c)

Quality and Effectiveness. The Committee shall monitor the quality and
effectiveness of the Internal Audit department. An external review of
Internal Audit will be conducted at least every three years. The Committee
Chairman shall provide an annual appraisal of the Head of Internal Audit.

(d)

Reporting line. The Chairman of the Company shall, with the assistance of
the advice and recommendations of the Committee, approve the
appointment or termination of employment of the Head of Internal Audit of
the Company and keep under review the reporting line to ensure
independent operation of the department. In the event of an unresolved
dispute between the executive and Internal Audit, or in respect of any
matter he deems as being necessary, the Head of Internal Audit of the
Company, to the extent such position exists within the Company from time
to time, has the absolute right to report directly to the Committee
Chairman or any Committee member.

3.3.4

(e)

Resources. The Committee shall monitor the adequacy of resources within
the Internal Audit department.

(f)

Reporting. The Head of Internal Audit shall report directly to the Committee
Chairman (as well as, where appropriate, the Chairman of the Board). The
Committee shall agree and receive regular reporting from the Internal Audit
department including coverage of completed audit assignments, follow up
of issues and planned progress. It shall meet the Head of Internal Audit of
the Company regularly, and at at least once a year without executives of the
Company being present.

Review of the Company's regulatory compliance
The Committee shall:

3.3.5

(a)

review the adequacy and security of the Company's arrangements for its
employees and contractors to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible
wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters. The Committee shall
ensure that these arrangements allow proportionate and independent
investigation of such matters and appropriate follow-up actions;

(b)

review the Company's procedures for detecting and preventing financial
crime including fraud, bribery and money-laundering;

(c)

discuss with management and the External Auditor any correspondence
with regulators, which raise material issues regarding the Company’s
financial statements, accounting policies and/or internal control system;

(d)

monitor the Company’s procedures for ensuring compliance with regulatory
reporting requirements and its relationship with the relevant regulatory
authorities;

(e)

review the performance of the Company's Chief Compliance Officer and
make recommendations with respect to such performance to the Board; and

(f)

discuss legal matters that may have a material impact on the financial
statements or on the Company’s compliance policies.

Review of the Company’s Risk Management Framework

(a)

Review the process for the annual validations of the Company’s risk
management models;

(b)

Review breaches of the Company’s Risk Governance Framework, as
approved by the Board; and

(c)

Commission and review audit reports relating to the risk management of the
Company.

3.3.6

Review of the Company’s Internal Control Environment

(a)

(b)

3.3.7

Internal Control. The Committee shall:

(i)

keep under review the Company's framework of internal controls
and make recommendations for change to the Board;

(ii)

consider internal reports on the operation of controls and the
proposals for implementation of change and strengthening;

(iii)

receive annually reports as required by articles 42 and 43 of the
French CRBF Regulation no. 97-02 dated 21 February 1997 relating
to internal control of credit institutions and investment firms, as
amended, and the Règlement Général de l'Autorité des Marchés
Financiers (or any other similar reports required by law or regulation
from time to time) on the conditions in which internal control is
conducted and on the measurement and monitoring of internal
controls and compliance;

(iv)

review at least once a year the provisions for business continuity
and disaster recovery and the assessment of the effectiveness of the
arrangements in place;

(v)

review at least once a year the measures taken to control
outsourced activities and any risks the Company may incur; and

(vi)

determine whether the risk internal control and compliance
resources are adequate and whether such controls and monitoring
have appropriate standing within the Company.

Issues. The Committee shall consider any major findings, and management
response(s) arising from internal audits, external audits, management
reporting and internal investigations, and any other reviews carried out
(including recommendations from regulatory authorities) and take
appropriate actions, which include escalating issues to the Board where
appropriate.

Review of the Company's Information Security and Business Continuity Planning
programmes

(a)

Review written reports or minutes of meetings regarding the Company's
information security programme and business continuity planning
programme. The written reports or minutes should address the results of
the risk assessment process; risk management and control decisions; service
provider arrangements; results of security monitoring and testing; business
continuity planning exercise schedules and results; business continuity
planning invocations; security breaches or violations and management
response; information security; business continuity planning awareness
programme status; and recommendations for major changes to the
information security or business continuity planning programmes.

(b)

3.3.8

3.3.9

Provide feedback and questions to information security and business
continuity planning management on desired metrics, reporting detail and
specific concerns.

Coordination with the Group Audit Committee and SA Risk Committee

(a)

The work of the Committee is complementary to that of the audit
committee of LCH.Clearnet Group Limited. It will be that Committee's
responsibility to consider Group-level issues.

(b)

Internal audits, external audits, investigations and reviews carried out under
the auspices of (and contained in the relevant reporting to) the Committee
will include control areas responsible for executing the policies and
methodologies set by the Company's Risk Committee.

Other Subjects

(a)

Operational Risk Policy. The Committee shall establish the Company’s
operational risk policy and will review the same on an annual basis. The
Committee will (i) assess operational risk within the risk management
processes and the related mitigating actions, requesting additional actions
from the relevant business areas if necessary and (ii) assess any incidents
resulting from operational risks in the risk management processes and the
measures taken to prevent their recurrence in the future. The Committee
will provide a report (or an executive summary thereof) to the Risk
Committee on the same.

(b)

Combined Assurance Report. The Committee will (i) review the summary
rating of the enterprise wide risks against the tolerance for the risk (ii) assess
actions to mitigate the risk levels and request additional actions from the
relevant business areas if necessary and (ii) assess any significant incidents
impacting each risk type and the measures taken to prevent their recurrence
in the future. The Committee will provide a report to the Board and an
executive summary thereof to the Risk Committee on the same.

(c)

Board Direction. The Committee shall consider any other matters as
directed by the Board.

4.

PROVISIONS FOR ACCESS

4.1

Access to Management
The Committee shall have full and unrestricted access to the Company’s management and
employees, and to the Company’s Internal and External Auditor. All employees are directed
to co-operate with any requests made by the Committee.

4.2

Access to Outside Advisers
The Committee is authorised by the Board, at its discretion, to obtain independent
professional advice and to secure the assistance of outsiders with relevant expertise. This

shall apply both to the Committee as a whole and to individual Committee members. Costs
relating to the provision of advice shall be borne by the Company.

4.3

Access to Company Information
The Committee shall have full and unrestricted access to (i) any systems or facilities of the
Company and of the LCH.Clearnet group (the Group) and (ii) any books, records or other
data it requires from the Company and from the Group in order to carry out its functions.

5.

REPORTING

5.1

Minutes / Agenda. The Committee Secretary shall minute the proceedings and resolutions of
all meetings of the Committee, including recording the names of those present and in
attendance. Minutes of Committee meetings shall be circulated promptly to all members of
the Committee and, once agreed, to all members of the Board unless it would be
inappropriate to do so.
Board Reporting

5.2

The Committee Chairman shall report the Committee's discussions, decisions and
recommendations to the Board, which shall decide on an appropriate policy response.

5.3

The Committee shall have no executive powers with respect to those findings and
recommendations.

5.4

The Committee shall ensure that the Board is regularly informed of the adequacy of key
control systems in the financial, operational and compliance-related areas.
Annual Reports

5.5

The Committee Chairman, or his or her designee, will make available to the Chief
Compliance Officer of the Company such information relating to the Committee’s work as is
necessary for the Chief Compliance Officer of the Company to draft and submit the annual
compliance reports required by applicable regulations in force from time to time.

5.6

The Committee shall produce a report including (i) a summary of its main responsibilities
and the work of the Committee in discharging those responsibilities, (ii) details of its
composition, including relevant qualifications and experience, (iii) an explanation of how it
assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process and the approach taken to the
appointment or reappointment of the External Auditor, (iv) information on the length of
tenure of the current audit firm and when a tender was last conducted, (v) if the External
Auditor provides non-audit services, an explanation of how auditor objectivity and
independence is safeguarded and (vi) any significant issues the Committee considered in
relation to the financial statements This report shall be put to the Board for approval each
year. Following such approval, that report is to be included in the Company's annual report.

5.7

Where requested by the Board, the Committee should provide advice on whether the
annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company's performance,
business model and strategy.

Provision of information to LSEG

5.8

The Chairman of the Committee shall liaise regularly with the chairman of the audit
committee of LSEG with a view to assisting LSEG in fulfilling its own audit requirements,
including with respect to the information set out at paragraph 3.3.1 above and as referred to
in paragraph 5.9 below.

5.9

The Committee shall have regard for LCH.Clearnet Group Limited's obligations under the RA
to provide information to LSEG, in particular under clause 21 of the RA and in particular with
regard to LSEG's status as a listed issuer required to comply with the UK Corporate
Governance Code.

6.

EDUCATION, TRAINING AND COMPETENCE

6.1

An induction programme shall be provided for new Committee members. This shall cover
the role of the Committee, including its Terms of Reference and expected time commitment
by members and an overview of the Company's business, identifying the main business and
financial dynamics and risks.

6.2

The Committee shall be provided with appropriate and timely training, both as an induction
process and on an ongoing basis, and provided with access to external consultancy support,
when required.

6.3

Induction and training may be provided on a joint basis with all or any of the audit
committees of LCH.Clearnet Group Limited, LCH.Clearnet Limited and LCH.Clearnet LLC.

7.

CONFIDENTIALITY AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST

7.1

Without prejudice to any rights LSEG may have in the RA, all confidential matters considered
by the Committee and any confidential information disclosed to members of the Committee
in connection with their position as a member of the Committee must remain confidential,
notwithstanding the company to which that information relates, nor whether the member is
a director of that company or not, save as required to be disclosed by law or regulation. Any
other persons involved in the Committee’s work shall either be bound by undertakings of
professional secrecy or by ad hoc confidentiality agreements with the Committee.

7.2

Conflicts of interest relating to Committee members shall be governed by the relevant
provisions in the reglement interieur of the Company from time to time.

7.3

Any disagreement within the Board, including disagreement between the Committee’s
members and the rest of the Board, should be resolved at Board level. Where disagreements
between the Committee and the Board cannot be resolved, the Committee will report the
issue through the Audit Committee of LCH.Clearnet Group Limited to the Board of
LCH.Clearnet Group Limited.

8.

ANNUAL EVALUATION AND TERMS OF REFERENCE REVIEW
The Committee shall arrange for periodic reviews of its own performance and, at least
annually, shall arrange for independent internal review of its constitution and these Terms
of Reference to ensure it is operating at maximum effectiveness and recommend any
changes it considers necessary to the Board for approval.

EXHIBIT D
Attach as Exhibit D, a list of persons who directly or indirectly, through one or more
intermediaries, are controlled by, or are under common control with, the clearing agency
and indicate the nature of the control relationship.
Attached, as Exhibit D-1, is a chart identifying the persons who directly or indirectly,
through one or more intermediaries, are controlled by, or are under common control with,
Group. The chart also identifies the nature of such relationships. As noted in Exhibit A,
LSEG holds 58 percent of the equity voting shares of Group. Ownership of the remaining
equity shares of Group is divided among the numerous users of Group (35 percent) and
two exchanges (7 percent).

1
LCH SA_FORM CA-1 APPLICATION_EXHIBIT D

EXHIBIT E
Attach as Exhibit E, a copy of the currently effective constitution, articles of
incorporation or association, by-laws, rules, procedures and instruments corresponding
thereto, of the registrant and a complete list of all dues, fees and other charges imposed
by registrant for its clearing agency activities.


LCH SA (“LCH”) is incorporated in France as a limited company (société
anonyme) with the legal name Banque Centrale de Compensation and registered
office located at 18, rue du Quatre Septembre, 75002 Paris, France. A copy of
LCH’s Articles of Association updated as of April 8, 2016 is attached as Exhibit
E-1.



A copy of the Articles of Association of Group as adopted by a special resolution
of shareholders passed on March 27, 2013 is attached as Exhibit E-2.



An extract from the Paris Chamber of Commerce in respect of LCH is attached as
Exhibit E-3.



The CDS Clearing Rule Book which is currently in force is attached as Exhibit E4.



The CDS Clearing Supplement which is currently in force is attached as Exhibit
E-5.



The CDS Clearing Procedures for LCH are comprised of nine sections and are
attached as Exhibits E-6.1 to E-6.9



The CDS FCM Regulations are attached as Exhibit E-7.



The CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol is attached as Exhibit E.8.



A complete list of all dues, fees and other charges for clearing agency activities is
attached as Exhibit Q.

LCH SA_FORM CA-1 APPLICATION_EXHIBIT E

EXHIBIT E-1

BANQUE CENTRALE DE COMPENSATION
Trade names: LCH.Clearnet SA and LCH SA
Incorporated in France as a société anonyme (limited company)
with share capital of EUR 113,066,860.26 euros
Registered office: 18 rue du Quatre Septembre 75002 Paris, France
692 032 485 R.C.S. Paris

ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
(Statuts)

Updated: 6 July 1992
Updated: 13 March 1995
Updated: 14 April 1998
Updated: 20 July 1998
Updated: 10 August 1998
Updated: 28 May 1999
Updated: 4 November 1999
Updated: 20 October 2000
Updated: 1 February 2001
Updated: 7 February 2002

:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:

Updated: 15 July 2003
Updated: 22 December 2003
Updated: 28 May 2004
Updated: 5 November 2004
Updated: 10 May 2006
Updated: 17 April 2009
Updated: 22 March 2010
Updated: 24 February 2012

:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:

Updated: 11 June 2015

:

Updated: 8 April 2016

:

Transfer of registered office
Transfer of registered office
Amendments: purpose, legal form, board composition, shares
Organisation of board
Purpose
Purpose, Share capital
Transfer of registered office
Share capital
Purpose, Share capital
Purpose, Share capital, Change of share capital, Shares, Board
composition, Management shares, Proceedings of the board, Powers of
the board, Chairman of the board of directors, Chairman – Managing
directors, Government commissioner, Quorum and majority, Disputes –
Election of domicile
Share capital
Change in share capital, Shares, Composition of the Board, Profits
Proceedings of the Boards
Transfer of registered office
Purpose
Purpose, Composition of the Board
Proceedings of the Board
Name, Corporate purpose, Share capital, Shares, Proceedings of the
Board, Powers of the Board, Advisors (Censeurs), Agreements between
the Company and a director, a manager or a shareholder, Convening of
General Meetings, Quorum and Majority, Powers – Quorum and
Majority, Accounts.
Board meetings, Chairman – Managing Directors, Advisors (Censeurs),
Agreements between the Company and a director, a manager or a
shareholder, Effects of deliberations, Convening of General Meetings,
Powers – Quorum and Majority
Trade name

This English translation is for the convenience of English-speaking readers. However, only the French text has any legal value. Consequently, the
translation may not be relied upon to sustain any legal claim, nor should it be used as the basis of any legal opinion. .
The use of the masculine gender in these Articles of Association includes the feminine gender, and when the context requires, the use of the singular
includes the plural.

TITLE I

FORM – NAME – CORPORATE PURPOSE – REGISTERED OFFICE - DURATION
ARTICLE 1
LEGAL FORM
ARTICLE 2
NAME
ARTICLE 3
CORPORATE PURPOSE
ARTICLE 4
REGISTERED OFFICE
ARTICLE 5
DURATION

TITLE II

SHARE CAPITAL - SHARES
ARTICLE 6
SHARE CAPITAL
ARTICLE 7
CHANGE IN SHARE CAPITAL
ARTICLE 8
SHARES
8.1 Payment on subscription
8.2 Form – Classes of share
8.3 Transfers
8.4 Rights attaching to shares
8.5 Indivisibility

TITLE III

ADMINISTRATION OF THE COMPANY

CHAPTER I

BOARD OF DIRECTORS
ARTICLE 9
ARTICLE 10
ARTICLE 11
ARTICLE 12
ARTICLE 13
ARTICLE 14

COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD
MANAGEMENT SHARES
ORGANISATION OF THE BOARD
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD
POWERS OF THE BOARD
REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS

CHAPTER 2

MANAGEMENT OF THE COMPANY
ARTICLE 15
CHAIRMAN – MANAGING DIRECTORS

CHAPTER 3

SUPERVISION OF THE COMPANY
ARTICLE 16
STATUTORY AUDITORS
ARTICLE 17
ADVISORS (CENSEURS)
ARTICLE 18
AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE COMPANY AND A DIRECTOR, A MANAGER OR
A SHAREHOLDER

TITLE IV

GENERAL MEETINGS OF SHAREHOLDERS

CHAPTER 1

GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 19
EFFECT OF RESOLUTIONS, NOTICES OF MEETING, ATTENDANCE
Effect of resolutions
Notices of meeting
Attendance
ARTICLE 20
CONVENING OF GENERAL MEETINGS

CHAPTER 2

ORDINARY GENERAL MEETINGS
ARTICLE 21
QUORUM AND MAJORITY
ARTICLE 22
POWERS

CHAPTER 3

EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETINGS
ARTICLE 23
POWERS
ARTICLE 24
QUORUM AND MAJORITY

CHAPTER 4

SPECIAL GENERAL MEETINGS
ARTICLE 25
POWER, QUORUM AND MAJORITY

TITLE V

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ARTICLE 26
FINANCIAL YEAR
ARTICLE 27
ACCOUNTS
ARTICLE 28
PROFITS

TITLE VI

DISSOLUTION – EXTENSION – WINDING UP - DISPUTES
ARTICLE 29
EARLY DISSOLUTION - EXTENSION
ARTICLE 30
LOSS OF ONE-HALF OF THE SHARE CAPITAL
ARTICLE 31
WINDING UP
ARTICLE 32
DISPUTES - ELECTION OF DOMICILE

2/17

TITLE I
LEGAL FORM – NAME – PURPOSE – REGISTERED OFFICE - DURATION
ARTICLE 1 – LEGAL FORM
The company is incorporated in France as a société anonyme (limited company) governed by the legal and regulatory
provisions applicable to sociétés anonymes, by the Financial and Monetary Code, by any legal or regulatory provisions
pertaining to said Code, and by these articles of association (statuts).

ARTICLE 2 - NAME
The company is named "Banque Centrale de Compensation".
In all acts and documents coming from the company and intended to third parties, the name has to be preceded or
followed immediately by the words "société anonyme" or the initials "S.A." and the mention of the amount of the share
capital.
ARTICLE 3 – CORPORATE PURPOSE
The main purpose of the company is to operate as a clearing house, as defined by Article L 440-1 of the Financial and
Monetary Code and Articles 541-1and the followings of the Règlement général de l'Autorité des marchés financiers.
In this respect, it shall be:


the clearing house for financial instruments admitted on the negotiation on any regulated market, multilateral
system of negotiation or any other form of market or system of negotiation managed by a investment company.



the clearing house for financial instruments traded off-exchange and recorded under procedures that it
establishes.

The company is entitled to lead activities of investment services in the limit of the approval of the Autorité de contrôle
prudentiel ("ACP") as an investment services provider.
The company is also entitled to create, operate and manage a system of financial instrument's delivery payment as
defined in Article L 330-1 of the Financial and Monetary Code.
It can clear and guarantee in full or in part the obligations arising from transactions on any market in financial
instruments on the basis of and according to the conditions set forth in an agreement that it signs with the company that
manages said market, within the limits authorised by the ACP.
Acting for its own account, for third parties or in partnership, both in France and abroad, the company can undertake
transactions of any nature, whether bank-related (governed by Book V of the Financial and Monetary Code), financial,
economic, industrial, legal, civil or commercial, or involving movable or immovable property, including resources
and/or IT services provided notably to LCH.Clearnet Group Limited, to any entity which it controls within the meaning
of Article L 233-1 et seq. of the Commercial Code, and to its members or to the suppliers of IT services to its members,
that might relate directly or indirectly to the above purpose or to all similar, related or complementary purposes, subject
to the authorisation of the ACP and in compliance with the legal and regulatory provisions applicable thereto, in
accordance with French law, European Directives and international agreements.
ARTICLE 4 – REGISTERED OFFICE
The registered office is located at “Le Centorial, 18 rue du Quatre Septembre, 75002 Paris, France.
It can be transferred to any other place within the same city or to an adjacent administrative area (département),
pursuant to a decision by the board of directors submitted for ratification to the next following ordinary general meeting
of shareholders, or to any other place pursuant to a resolution of an extraordinary general meeting.

3/17

The board of directors may set up branches, offices, agencies or representation offices in any place it deems expedient,
whether in France or in another country.

Article 5 - DURATION
The duration of the company shall be ninety-nine (99) years, starting from its registration with the Registre du
Commerce (Companies Register), except in the event of extension or early dissolution.

TITLE II
SHARE CAPITAL - SHARES
ARTICLE 6 - SHARE CAPITAL
The share capital shall be EUR 113,066,860.26 divided into 7,416,700 fully paid-up and same category shares with no
par value.
It is hereby recalled that:


under the proceedings of the extraordinary general meeting of shareholders of 28 May 1999, the capital was
increased by FRF 346,412,400 following the spin-off of the entire, autonomous clearing business of
Société des Bourses Françaises (the former name of Euronext Paris SA);



under the proceedings of the board of directors' meeting of 20 October 2000, the capital was converted to euro;



under the proceedings the extraordinary general meeting of shareholders on 1 February 2001, the capital was
increased by EUR 30,898,898 following the contribution of Dutch and Belgian clearing activities by AEXEffectenclearing B.V., AEX-Optieclearing B.V. and Brussels Exchange Clearing House;



under the proceedings of the combined general meeting of shareholders on 7 February 2002 the capital was
increased by EUR 22,070,653.56 as a result of the interest taken by Euronext NV.



Under the proceedings of the extraordinary general meeting of shareholders of 15 July 2003, the capital was
increased by EUR 2,713,607.70 following the spin-off of the clearing business of Euronext Lisbon – Sociedade
Gestora de Mercados Regulamentados S.A.

ARTICLE 7 – CHANGE IN SHARE CAPITAL
The extraordinary general meeting of shareholders may decide to increase or reduce the share capital, in accordance
with law.
The annual general meeting may delegate to the Board the necessary powers to this effect.
Each time it is necessary to possess several shares to exercise any right, particularly in the case of a share reduction for
whatever reason and whichever way it could be, the shareholders must take personnally the grouping, and possibly the
purchase or the sale of the number of necessary shares or rights.
The shareholders have, proportionally to the amount of their shares, a pre-emption right to the subscription of the cash
shares issued to realise an increase in capital. The shareholders may renounce individually to their pre-emption right.

ARTICLE 8 - SHARES
8.1

Payment on subscription

Cash shares must be paid up on subscription by not less than one-quarter of the value of the portion of capital
represented, that is to say the non-specified nominal value resulting from the division of the share capital by the total

4/17

number of shares issued and the total issue premium. The balance shall be called by the board of directors within five
years.
Shareholders shall be informed of capital calls at least twenty days in advance, either by insertion in a legal gazette in
the place at which the company has its registered office or by individual registered letter.
Late payments in respect of shares shall bear interest for the company automatically and without prior notice. Such
interest shall be calculated from the date such payments fall due at the legal business rate plus three percentage points.
8.2

Form – Classes of share

Shares shall be registered. Shares are held in book entry form, in accordance with prevailing law and regulations.
These registered accounts can be “pure registered” or “administrated nominative” accounts according to the choice of
the shareholder’s preference.
8.3

Transfers

1.- Shares shall be conveyed solely by account transfer upon presentation of a transfer order signed by the transferor
alone, if the shares are fully paid up, or by the transferor and the transferee if not.
The company can require that the signature of the parties be certified, as provided for in prevailing laws and regulations.
Shares are not eligible for transfer unless all due payments have been made.
2.- Shares and rights attaching to a capital increase by the company can be transferred freely between shareholders. They
can also be transferred freely to a subsidiary, affiliate or parent company and, within the limit of a single share, to any
natural person or to any legal persona designated by a shareholder as a candidate for a directorship.
For the purposes of these presents, (i) "subsidiary" shall mean any joint stock company in which one of the shareholders
holds, directly or indirectly, fifty per cent (50%) or more of the voting rights at ordinary and extraordinary general
meetings; (ii) "parent company" shall mean any joint stock company that holds, directly or indirectly, fifty per cent
(50%) or more of the voting rights of one of the shareholders; (iii) "affiliate" shall mean any joint stock company in
which fifty per cent (50%) or more of the voting rights is held by a parent company (as defined above).
Except as provided for in the above subparagraphs and in Article 8.2.II (b), any transfer of shares to a third party made
in any way whatsoever, whether free of charge or for valuable consideration, even where such transfer involves a
contribution to the company's assets or a voluntary or compulsory public tender, must be approved by the board of
directors voting by a two-thirds majority of the incumbent directors, and under the terms specified herein, in order to be
considered final. However, in the event of a division of a community of marital property or a transfer either to a spouse
or to an ascendant or descendant, shares can be transferred freely.
3.- To that end, the company shall be informed of the transferee's authorisation application by means of an extrajudicial
process or a registered letter with return receipt.
That application shall specify the number of shares to be transferred, the class and price of the shares, the full name,
profession, business name, home address or registered office and nationality of the proposed transferee and, where the
shares are not fully paid up, a transfer acceptance letter from the transferee.
In the event of a transfer of rights to subscribe for a capital increase, the transferor shall dispatch an authorisation
application, as per the above subparagraph.
Within three months of such application, the board of directors shall inform the transferor whether or not it accepts the
proposed transfer. Absent notification within three months, the authorisation is accorded.
The board of directors shall not be required to disclose the reasons for a refusal. The decision taken by the board voting
by a two-thirds majority, likewise the refusal of an authorisation owing to the absence of a majority, shall be made
known to the parties concerned by registered letter with return receipt.
Where the application is accepted, the shares must be transferred by the applicant to the proposed transferee at the price
specified in the application within five days of notification of acceptance.

5/17

Where subscription rights are concerned, these are transferred under the same terms and within the same time period.
A transfer into the name of the transferee(s) may be affected by the chairman of board of directors or a delegate of the
board on his own initiative; the signatures of the shareholders or rights holders are not required. Such shareholders are
officially notified by registered letter with return receipt within five days of acquisition, as described above.
If the transfer beneficiary's application is rejected, the board of directors shall, within three months of notification of
refusal, procure the purchase of the shares either by one or more shareholders or one or more French banks or, with the
assent of the transferor, by the company with a view to reducing its capital. Absent an agreement between the parties, the
price of the shares shall be determined in compliance with Article 1843-4 of the Civil Code.
If, at the end of the time period specified in the above subparagraph, the purchase has not been effected, the
authorisation shall be deemed granted.
However, this time period may be extended by a decision of the courts at the request of the company.
In the event that applications from shareholders exceed the number of shares offered, and absent an accord between the
applicants, the board of directors shall allocate the shares among such applicants in proportion to the number of shares
held by each one and to the extent of each one's demand.
8.4

Rights attaching to shares

Ownership of a share automatically implies the holder's acceptance of these articles and the resolutions of annual general
meetings.
Each share carries the right to attend general meetings and vote on resolutions, as provided by law and these presents.
Each share entitles the holder to an ownership interest in the corporate assets and a share of the company's profits that is
proportional to the number of existing shares, taking into account the nominal value of the shares, the unpaid capital or
the balance of capital remaining where part has been redeemed.
All existing shares forming part of the share capital, and any new shares issued by the company in the future, shall have
exactly the same status in respect of the tax liabilities to which they may give rise. Consequently, all tax liabilities which
may fall due, either during the company's lifetime or upon liquidation, as a result of the redemption of the share capital
shall be divided among all the shares making up the capital when such redemption(s) take(s) place, such that all existing
shares and any new shares issued in future shall confer on their owners, for the same paid up and unredeemed amount,
the same effective benefits and shall entitle them to receive the same net sum.
8.5

Indivisibility

The shares are indivisible vis-à-vis the company. All co-owners of shares must be represented in respect of the company
by a single co-owner or by a joint agent.
The heirs, representatives or creditors of a shareholder may not, on any pretext whatsoever, seal or take action against
the company's property or documents, request the partition or sale by auction thereof, or interfere in any way in its
administration. They must refer to the schedules of assets and liabilities and to the resolutions of the general meetings of
shareholders.

TITLE III
ADMINISTRATION OF THE COMPANY
CHAPTER I: BOARD OF DIRECTORS

6/17

ARTICLE 9 - COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD
The company shall be administered by a board of directors composed of no fewer than three members and no more than
eighteen members. Each director shall be appointed for three years by the general meeting of shareholders.
A legal persona can be appointed as a director but, when appointed, must designate a natural person to be its permanent
representative on the board of directors. The term of office of the permanent representative is equal to that of said legal
persona and must be confirmed each time that the term is renewed.
Where the legal persona dismisses its representative, it shall at the same time provide a replacement and shall inform the
company immediately by registered letter of such dismissal and of the identity of the new permanent representative. The
same shall apply where the permanent representative dies or retires.
The term of office of a director terminates after the ordinary general meeting called to consider the accounts of the
previous year and held during the year in which the said director's term expires.
Directors shall be eligible for re-election indefinitely.
Where a vacancy arises owing to the death or resignation of one or more directors, the board of directors can make
appointments on a temporary basis between two general meetings, subject to confirmation by the next following general
meeting.
Where the number of directors falls below the statutory minimum, the remaining directors shall immediately convene an
ordinary general meeting in order to return the board to full strength.
A director appointed to replace another director shall hold office only for the remainder of his predecessor's term.
ARTICLE 10 – MANAGEMENT SHARES
Each director is entitled to hold at least one share throughout his term of office. Nevertheless, the holding of shares by
the directors does not constitute an obligation for them.

ARTICLE 11 - ORGANISATION OF THE BOARD
1. The board of directors shall appoint from among its members a chairman, who shall be a natural person and whose
emoluments shall be decided by the board.
The chairman is appointed for a period that cannot exceed his term of office as director. The chairman can be re-elected.
The board of directors can dismiss the chairman at any time. Any conflicting provision shall be deemed invalid.
In the event of the temporary unavailability or the death of the chairman, the board of directors can delegate a director to
act as chairman. In the case of temporary unavailability, such delegation shall be given for limited, renewable period. In
the case of death, the delegation is valid until a new chairman is elected.
In addition the board of directors can, if it deems expedient, appoint a vice-chairman responsible for chairing board
meetings and general meetings if the chairman is absent.
The board of directors can also appoint a secretary, who need not be chosen from among its members.
2. The chairman represents the board of directors. He organises and manages the board's work, and reports to the
general meeting thereon. He ensures that the corporate bodies function properly and in particular that the directors are
able to perform their duties.

ARTICLE 12 – PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD
1.- The board of directors shall meet when convened by the chairman,the director delegated for that purpose or any
other director of the company, as often as the interests of the company so require.

7/17

Where the board of directors has not met for more than two months, at least one-third of its members can request the
chairman to convene a board meeting to discuss a preset agenda. The managing director can also request the
chairman to convene a board meeting with a preset agenda. The chairman shall be bound by such requests.
Meetings shall be held either at the registered office or at such other premises or place as may be stated in the notice
of meeting. The chairman of the board of directors shall preside at the meeting or, in his absence, a director
delegated for that purpose or, failing this, a director chosen by the board.
Any director can give in written another director, even by letter or facsimile, a proxy to represent him and vote in his
stead at a given board meeting. However, a director may not act as proxy for more than one of his colleagues at a
given board meeting.
An attendance register shall be kept and signed by all directors attending a meeting.
2.- Proceedings shall be valid only if not less than half the members of the board are present.
Resolutions shall be passed by a majority of the votes of the members present in person or by proxy. In the case of
equality of votes, the chairman of the meeting shall have the casting vote.
However, where only two directors are present, resolutions shall be passed by unanimous vote.
Moreover, the following decisions require a majority vote of 75% of the non-conflicted Directors entitled to vote and
voting at the meeting:


Reduction in the choice, access to, and operating principles of Settlement Systems relevant to the Cash
Common Services;



Changes of information technology systems or developments of new information technology architectures,
advancements, in technologies (hardware, software and parameterisation of these hardwares and softwares)
relating to the Cash Clearing Infrastructure; and



Allocation of costs relating to information technology systems developments (which include the costs incurred
for hardware purchasing, software development, parameterisation, consultancy services, project management,
related maintenance and support services and the Clearing Members technical support services) relating to the
Cash Clearing Infrastructure.

Except the agenda of the board is relating to the closing of the annual financial statements and the consolidated
financial statements, the directors who take part in the board by the mean of videoconference or telecommunication
of a kind and according to the mode of enforcement in accordance with regulations are considered as present for the
calculation of the quorum and the majority.
3.- Proceedings of the board shall be recorded in minutes, which shall be kept in a special minute book at the registered
office, duly signed, or on loose-leaf paper numbered and initialled without omission, in accordance with law.
Minutes are signed by the chairman of the meeting and one director. If the chairman of the meeting is unavailable,
the minutes are signed by two directors.
A copy or extract of the minutes is sufficient to prove the number of incumbent directors as well their presence in
person or by proxy.
Copies or extracts of the minutes of the proceedings shall be certified by the chairman of the board of directors, the
managing director or the deputy managing director, the director delegated temporarily as chairman or a person with
power of attorney for that purpose.
Where the company is being wound up, such copies or extracts shall be duly certified by a single liquidator.

8/17

ARTICLE 13 – POWERS OF THE BOARD
The board of directors shall determine the company's business policies and see to it they are implemented. Subject to the
powers expressly reserved to general meetings of shareholders, and to the extent of the corporate purpose, it deals with
all questions concerning the smooth course of the company's business and passes resolutions to settle all matters that
concern it.
In its relations with third parties, the company shall be bound by all acts of the board of directors that do not come
within its corporate purpose, unless it can prove that such third party knew that the act was outside such purpose or
could not in view of the circumstances have been unaware of it; disclosure of these articles shall not of itself be
sufficient proof thereof1.
The board of directors carries out the controls and inspections it deems appropriate. Each director receives all the
information needed to carry out his duties and can procure all documents he considers useful.
The decisions of the board of directors are put into execution by the chairman, the managing director, one of the
assistant managing directors, where such exist, or by any special delegate appointed by the board of directors.
In addition, the board of directors can give one of its members or third parties, who need not be shareholders, all special
mandates for one or more special purposes, with or without the right for such representatives to delegate all or part of
their authority.
The board of directors can also vote to create a study committee or management committee; it sets the operating
principles and powers of such committees.

ARTICLE 14 - REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS
As consideration for their activity, directors receive a fixed annual sum by way of attendance fees, the amount of which
shall be determined by a general meeting of shareholders.
The board apportions such attendance fees among its members as it thinks fit. In particular, it can allocate a larger
portion to directors serving on committees.
It can also allocate exceptional consideration for duties or mandates given to directors. Such consideration is subject to
the legal provisions governing agreements requiring prior authorisation from the board of directors.

CHAPTER 2: MANAGEMENT OF THE COMPANY
ARTICLE 15 - CHAIRMAN – MANAGING DIRECTORS
15.1. Organisation principle
Responsibility for the management of the company shall be assumed by anatural person, other than the Chairman of the
Board, appointed by the board of directors and having the capacity of managing director.
A change in the method of general management shall not entail a change in the articles of association.
15.2. Managing director
The board of directors appoints the managing director, sets his term of office, and decides his remuneration and, where
appropriate, the limits of his powers.
The managing director can be dismissed at any time by the board of directors.

1

First Council Directive 68/151/EEC of 9 March 1968 on co-ordination of safeguards which, for the protection of the interests of
members and others, are required by Member States of companies within the meaning of the second paragraph of Article 58 of the
Treaty, with a view to making such safeguards equivalent throughout the Community

9/17

The managing director is vested with the broadest powers to act in any and all circumstances in the name of the
company. He exercises those powers to the extent of the company's purpose and subject to those powers that the law
expressly reserves to general meetings of shareholders and the board of directors.
The managing director represents the company in its dealings with third parties. The company is bound by the acts of the
managing director that do not come within its corporate purpose, unless it can prove that such third party knew that the
act was outside such purpose or could not in view of the circumstances have been unaware of it.
15.3. Assistant managing directors
On the recommendation of the managing director, whether such function such be taken on by the chairman of the board
of directors or by another person, the board of directors can appoint one or more natural persons to assist the managing
director in the capacity of assistant managing director(s).
The number of assistant managing directors shall not exceed five (5).
In agreement with the managing director, the board of directors determines the scope and duration of the powers vested
in assistant managing directors.
With respect to third parties, an assistant managing director has the same power as the managing director.
The board of directors determines the remuneration of assistant managing directors.
Where the managing director leaves office or is unavailable, the assistant managing directors shall retain their duties and
powers, unless the board of directors decides otherwise, until a new managing director is appointed.
An assistant managing director can be dismissed at any time by the board of directors, on the recommendation of the
managing director; such dismissal can give rise to damages if it is without just cause.
15.4 Managers in charge
Pursuant to the French Monetary and Financial code, the effective determination of the credit institution or financing
companies’ business shall be performed by at least two people. The Managers in charge shall comply with legal and
regulatgory obligations applying to their appointment.

CHAPTER 3: SUPERVISION OF THE COMPANY
ARTICLE 16 – STATUTORY AUDITORS
The company shall be supervised by two (2) statutory auditors which, with the exception of the original auditors
appointed in the company's memorandum of association, are appointed by an ordinary general meeting.
One or more alternate auditors can also be appointed to replace the statutory auditors in the event of death,
unavailability or refusal to act of said statutory auditors.
Statutory auditors shall be appointed for six financial years and their duties shall expire after the ordinary general
meeting that reviews the financial statements of the sixth financial year. They can be relieved of their duties by a general
meeting in the event of negligence (faute) or unavailability.
They shall be summoned to the board meeting that rules the annual financial statements and also to all general meetings
of shareholders.
The statutory auditors shall receive a remuneration that is set in accordance with existing regulations.
An auditor appointed to replace another auditor shall hold office only for the remainder of his predecessor's term.

10/17

ARTICLE 17 – ADVISORS (CENSEURS)
An ordinary general meeting can appoint nonvoting directors to serve in an advisory capacity (censeurs). Legal personae
appointed as advisors can be represented by a natural person who shall not be a shareholder. Advisors are always
eligible for re-election.
Their term of office shall be three years. It shall terminate after the ordinary general meeting called to review the
financial statements for the year and held during the year in which the advisors' terms of office expire.
Advisors shall attend board meetings in a consultative and non-deliberative capacity at the behest of the chairman or, if
he is unavailable, the director delegated to those duties, or any other director of the company.
An ordinary general meeting can allocate a fixed annual sum to advisors by way of attendance fees as consideration for
their activity. The amount thus allocated shall be apportioned among the advisors at the discretion of the board of
directors.
ARTICLE 18 – AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE COMPANY AND A DIRECTOR, A MANAGER OR A
SHAREHOLDER

Any agreement entered into, either directly or through an intermediary, between the company and its general manager,
with one of its assistant general managers, one of its directors, one of its shareholders holding a fraction of the voting
rights greater than 10% or, in the case of a corporate shareholder, with the company which controls it within the
meaning of Article L. 233-3, must be subject to the prior consent of the board of directors.
The same applies to agreements in which a person referred to in the previous paragraph has an indirect interest.
Agreements entered into between the company and another firm are also subject to prior consent if the company's
general manager, one of its assistant general managers or one of its directors is the owner, a fully liable partner, a
manager, a director or a member of that firm's supervisory board or, more generally, a person in any way involved in its
management.
The Board’s prior consent shall be motivated by justifying that this agreement is entered into in the interest of the
company, notably in the light of the financial conditions of such an agreement.
The agreements which were entered into in the course of previous accounting years and that still remain in force shall be
reviewed annually by the Board and communicated to statutory auditors.
The above provisions do not apply, neither to current transactions entered into during the normal course of business, nor
to the agreements entered into by two companies when one of them holds, directly or indirectly, the totality of the capital
of the other.
Under penalty of void contract, with the exception of all corporate entities, Company directors are strictly prohibited
from taking out loans from the Company, seeking approval by the Company of overdrafts on current accounts or
borrowing in any similar manner, or seeking endorsements or guarantees by the Company with respect to commitments
towards third parties.
However, if the company operates a banking or financial institution, the prohibition shall not apply to ordinary
transactions concluded on normal terms and conditions in the course of its business.
The foregoing provision shall apply to the General Manager, the Deputy General Managers and the permanent
representatives of corporate entities who are directors. It should also apply to a spouse, the direct ascendants and
descendants of the above mentioned persons as well as to any third party.

TITLE IV
GENERAL MEETINGS OF SHAREHOLDERS
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS

11/17

ARTICLE 19 – EFFECT OF RESOLUTIONS, NOTICES OF MEETING, ATTENDANCE
Effect of resolutions
A general meeting duly constituted shall represent the entire body of shareholders. Resolutions passed by a general
meeting in accordance with law and these articles shall be binding on all shareholders, including absent, incapacitated or
dissenting shareholders.
Notices of meeting
Shareholders shall be convened annually to an ordinary general meeting within five months of the yearend close.
Furthermore, general meetings, whether ordinary convened extraordinarily or extraordinary, can be called at any time
during the year.
Notices of meeting shall be sent out at least fifteen clear days before the planned date of the meeting. This period shall
be reduced to six clear days where second notice is given.
Meetings shall be convened by a notice appearing in a publication entitled to carry legal notices in the département
where the company has its registered office. This publication could be replaced by a convocation, at the Company's
costs, by ordinary letter or registered letter with acknowledge receipt sent to each shareholder.
Shareholder that have held shares for at least one month as at the date of the notice shall be called to attend by ordinary
letter; subject to the payment to the company of the registration fees, they may request to be convened by registered
letter
As a meeting has not been entitled to deliberate regularly, due to a lack of required quorum, the second meeting is
noticed in the same way as the first assembly and the notice publication remind the date of the meeting. It is the same for
a deferred meeting as provided in the French commercial code.

All this shall be independent from prior notices served on shareholders, in compliance with legal requirements and time
limits, in respect of possible requests to have draft resolutions placed on the agenda.
Attendance
The general meeting shall comprise all shareholders, irrespective of the number of shares they hold.
The right to attend general meetings is contingent on the shareholder's shares being registered in the company's share
registry on the third working day prior to such meeting, at 00:00, Paris time. However, the board of directors can always
reduce this period through a general measure benefiting to all the shareholders if it sees fit.
Holders of shares on which amounts due have not been paid within thirty (30) clear days of notice to that effect being
served by the company shall not be admitted to general meetings. Such shares are discounted for the purposes of
calculating the quorum. The company may validly vote shares purchased by it. Also, are denied the right to vote such
shares of prospective purchasers in the general meetings approving the removal of preferential subscription rights and
actions of the person in proceedings under section 18.
Any shareholder can be represented by another shareholder, by their spouse or partner with whom he entered into a civil
partnership. The mandate is given for a single general meeting, it can be for two general meetings, one ordinary and one
extraordinary, if they are held on the same day or within fifteen days. It applies to successive general meetings convened
with the same agenda.
Any Shareholder may vote by mail using a form which is considered only if received by the company at least three days
before the meeting of the general meeting. This form may, where appropriate, be on the same document as the power of
attorney form.
The company is required to join to any power of attorney form and postal voting submitted to the shareholders the
information required by the regulations in force.
Any shareholder who owns shares of a given class may participate in special general meetings of shareholders of that

12/17

class, under the conditions specified above.
The Board may can organize as provided by law and regulations, the participation and voting of the shareholders to
general meetings by videoconference or by means of telecommunication allowing their identification. If the Board
decides to exercise this power for a given general meeting, it reports its decision in the notice of meeting and/or summon
The Shareholders participating to the general meetings by videoconference or by any other means of telecommunication
referred to above, at the discretion of the Board, are deemed present for the quorum and majority.
ARTICLE 20 – CONVENING OF GENERAL MEETINGS
General meetings are convened by the board of directors at the company's registered office or at such other premises or
place as may be stated in the notice of meeting.
Failing this, they can be convened:
1.- by the statutory auditor,
2.- by a legally appointed authorised agent at the request of any interested party in the event of an emergency or at the
request of one or more shareholders representing at least one-tenth of the capital.
Each member of the general meeting shall be entitled to as many votes as shall equal the number of shares he owns or
represents, and each share give right to at least one vote.
The chairman of the board of directors shall preside at general meetings or, in his absence, a director delegated for that
purpose. Failing this, the general meeting itself elects a chairman. In case of summons by the auditors, by an agent of
justice or by the liquidators, the general meeting is presided over by him or by one of those who convened.
The agenda of a meeting shall be drawn up by the convenor of that meeting or by court order appointing the agent
responsible for convening the general meeting. One or more shareholders representing the share of capital determined
by the laws and regulations have the right to request the inclusion of draft resolutions to the agenda of the meeting. The
latter can not deliberate on a matter not listed on the agenda, which can not be changed on second summon. The general
meeting may, however, in all circumstances dismiss one or more directors and replace them.
The duties of scrutineers shall be performed by the two shareholders present and willing who represent the greatest
number of shares.
The officers shall appoint the secretary, who need not be a shareholder.
An attendance sheet shall be prepared; it shall be duly signed by the shareholders present and certified by the officers of
the general meeting.
Proceedings of the meeting shall be recorded in minutes, which shall be kept in a special minute book at the registered
office, duly signed, or on loose-leaf paper numbered and initialled without omission, in accordance with law.
The minutes shall be signed by the officers; copies or extracts thereof shall be certified by the chairman of the board of
directors, by a director serving as managing director, or by the secretary of the meeting..

CHAPTER 2: ORDINARY GENERAL MEETINGS
ARTICLE 21 - QUORUM AND MAJORITY
The proceedings of an ordinary general meeting held after first notice shall be valid only if the shareholders present in
person or by proxy own no less than one-quarter of shares with voting rights.
After second notice, the proceedings shall be valid irrespective of the number of shares represented.
An ordinary general meeting shall pass resolutions by a majority of the votes of the shareholders present in person,
voting by correspondence or by proxy.

13/17

ARTICLE 22 - POWERS
The ordinary general meeting shall hear the reports of the board of directors and the auditor(s) and shall take note of the
annual financial statements.
The general meeting shall discuss, approve, rectify or reject the financial statements, and shall fix the dividends to be
distributed and the profits to be carried forward.
It shall decide on the setting up of all reserves, deciding on the deductions therefor and the distribution thereof.
It shall determine attendance fees.
It shall appoint, replace, re-elect or dismiss directors. It shall confirm temporary appointments of directors by the board
of directors.
It shall appoint the statutory auditors and, where appropriate, pass judgment on the special report.
It shall authorise the contracting of loans by the issue or non-convertible, non-exchangeable bonds and debentures as
well as the posting of special collateral therefor.
Moreover, the general meeting of credit institutions and financing companies shall acknowledges the overall amount of
remunerations of any kind paid during the last fiscal year to the persons referred to in Article L511-71 of the Monetary
and Financial Code.

It shall take decisions on any other proposals that are not within the sole competence of an extraordinary general
meeting.

CHAPTER 3: EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETINGS
ARTICLE 23 - POWERS
The extraordinary general meeting shall take decisions on all business that is not within the competence of an ordinary
general meeting.
An extraordinary general meeting can amend all the provisions of these articles and can also decide to convert the
company into a company of any other legal form.
It may not under any circumstances increase the commitments of shareholders if the decision to do so is not unanimous;
neither can it infringe their rights.

ARTICLE 24 - QUORUM AND MAJORITY
1.- The proceedings of an extraordinary general meeting shall be valid only if the shareholders present in person or by
proxy own no less than one-third of voting shares, after first notice, or one-quarter of such shares after second
notice.
Resolutions shall be passed by a two-thirds majority of the votes of the shareholders present in person, voting by
correspondence or by proxy.
2.- Where the matter at hand is to decide on or authorise the board of directors to increase the capital by capitalising
reserves, profits or issue premiums, the quorum shall be only one-quarter after first call. The proceedings are valid
after second call, irrespective of the number of shares represented.
Resolutions shall be passed by the majority of the votes of the shareholders present in person, voting by

14/17

correspondence or by proxy.
3.- A capital increase effected by raising the nominal value of the shares to be paid up in cash or issued against
outstanding debt can be decided only by a unanimous vote of the shareholders holding all the shares making up the
capital.

CHAPTER 4: SPECIAL GENERAL MEETINGS
ARTICLE 25 – POWERS, QUORUM AND MAJORITY
Special general meetings convene the shareholders of a special category of shares in order to decide on a modification of
the rights relating to the shares of this category.
Special general meetings decide properly only if the present shareholders, voting by correspondence or by proxy hold at
least on first notice the half and on second notice the quarter of the shares with voting rights and of which it is planned
to modify the rights. In absence of this quorum, the general meeting could be deferred to a postponed date of two
months maximum to the date on which it has been noticed. Those general meetings decide at a majority of two third of
the votes present, voting by correspondence or by proxy.

TITLE V
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ARTICLE 26 – FINANCIAL YEAR
The financial year shall run from 1 January to 31 December.

ARTICLE 27 - ACCOUNTS
At the date of the year-end closure, the board of directors shall draw up a schedule of assets and liabilities at that date,
together with the annual financial statements. The commitments endorsed or otherwise guaranteed are stated in a report
accompanying the balance sheet.
The board of directors shall also prepare a management report, the contents of which are defined by law.
Those accounts and this management report are at the disposal of statutory auditors in the conditions determined by the
applicable law, and are submitted at the yearly meeting of the board of directors.
The annual financial statements must be drawn up each year in the same forms and same evaluation methods as the
precedent years. If modifications take place, they are pointed out, described and justified in the conditions provided by
the Commercial code relating to companies.
Consolidated accounts and a group's management report are also prepare by the board of directors and presented to the
annual meeting, if the company fills into the conditions provided for the preparation of such accounts.
The general meeting decide on the annual financial statements et, as the case may be, on the consolidated accounts.
ARTICLE 28 - PROFITS
The profit for the financial year shall comprise the income for the year, less the company's overheads and other
expenses, including all amortisation and depreciation allowances and provisions.
A levy of no less than five per cent (5%) shall be made on the profits for the financial year, less where appropriate,
previous losses, and shall be allocated to a reserve fund termed “legal reserve”. This levy shall cease to be obligatory
when the said fund is equal to one-tenth of the company's share capital.

15/17

As for any surplus, the general meeting shall decide whether to distribute it, carry it forward or pay it into to one or more
reserve funds.

TITLE VI
DISSOLUTION – EXTENSION – WINDING UP - DISPUTES
ARTICLE 29 – EARLY DISSOLUTION - EXTENSION
An extraordinary general meeting can vote to dissolve the company earlier than intended and, when the period fixed for
its duration expires, to extend it.
At least one year before the period fixed for the duration expires, the board of directors calls an extraordinary general
meeting of shareholders to decide whether the company is to be extended.
ARTICLE 30 – LOSS OF ONE-HALF OF THE SHARE CAPITAL
If, by reason of the losses ascertained in the accounting documents, the shareholders' equity of the company falls below
one-half of the share capital, the board of directors shall be required to call an extraordinary general meeting within the
four months following the approval of the financial statements that revealed such loss, in order to decide whether the
company should be dissolved earlier than intended.
If the decision is not in favour of dissolution, the company shall be required, not later than the closure of the second
financial year following the year in which the losses were ascertained and subject to the provision of the Commercial
Code, to reduce its capital by an amount at least equal to that of the losses which could not be charged to the reserves if,
within that period, the shareholders' equity has not been replenished to an amount at least equal to half of the company's
capital.
In both cases, the resolution passed by the general meeting is published in accordance with law.
ARTICLE 31 – WINDING UP
On expiration of the period fixed for the company's duration or in the event of early dissolution, the general meeting
shall determine the method of winding up and shall appoint one or more liquidators, whose powers it shall determine.
On appointment of the liquidators, the powers of the directors, the chairman, the managing director, where one exists,,
and the assistant managing director(s) shall lapse. Throughout the winding up process, the general meeting shall retain
the same powers.
The net proceeds of winding up, after clearance of the company's debts, shall be applied in the first place in repayment
of the paid up amount of the share capital that has not been redeemed. The balance shall then be distributed among all
shares.
When winding up is complete, the partners are convened to adopt the winding-up account, discharge the liquidators for
the performance of their duties, and take official note of the winding up. The winding up shall be published in
accordance with law.
ARTICLE 32 – DISPUTES - ELECTION OF DOMICILE
All disputes arising during the life of the company or in the course of its winding up, whether between shareholders and
the company or between the shareholders themselves, concerning the affairs of the company shall be subject to the
authority of the courts within whose jurisdiction the registered office is located.

16/17

To this end, every shareholder shall give an address within the jurisdiction in which the registered office is situated, and
any summons or notice is valid if served at that address.
Where an address for service is not given, summonses and notices are valid if served at the office of M. le Procureur de
la République près le Tribunal de Grande Instance within whose jurisdiction the seat of the company is situated.

17/17

EXHIBIT E-2

Company No 4743602

THE COMPANIES ACT 2006

PRIVATE COMPANY LIMITED BY SHARES

SPECIAL RESOLUTION
of

111111111~11111111111
A44

•A27LLDR4•
03/05/2013

COMPANIES HOUSE

LCH.CLEARNET GROUP LIMITED
(the "Company")

At a general mectmg of the Company duly convened and held at Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate
High Street, London EC3N !EA at 09.00 am (London time) on 27 March 2013, the
following resolution was pa5sed a:. a special resolut10n

SPECIAL RESOLUTlON

THAT, m connection with the Transaction:
(a)

cond1t1onal upon and with effect from Completion of the Ma1011ty Acqms1tton, new
articles of association of the Company 111 the fonn of the draft prnduced to the
meetmg and 1111ttalled by the Chalfman for 1dcnttficat10n purposes be adopted as the
articles of association of the Company m substltutton for, and to the exclus1on of, the
current a1t1cles of assoc1a!ton and each and every vanat1on, mod1fieatton or
abrogatton of the nghts and pnv1\cges attached to the ordmaiy shares of €1 each m
the capital of the Company wluch 1s or may be thereby effeLted be and are hereby
sanchoned,

(b)

w1lhout 111 any way hnutmg the powers set out 111 ait1cle 4 5 of the New A1t1clcs,
Placmg& to one or more Futme Venue Partneis (as defined m the New Articles) at a
pnce of at least E-:10 per New Sha1e be and arc hereby approved,

(c)

without 111 any way 111mt111g the powers set out 111 a1t1cle 4 5 of the New A1t1cles,
Placmgs to Shai eholdc1s at a pncc of at least€ I 0 per New Shate 111clud1ng the TopUp Placmg to LSEG at€ 10 per New Share, 111 each case, 111 accordance with the New
A1t1cles and 111 add1t10n to the aulhon!tcs set out m the New Arllcles, be and arc
he1eby app1ovcd,

!d)

the 1Ssue al €10 per New Shatc ot such number of New Shares prnsuanl to the
offe1111g as 1:. 1cqu11cd to 1a1:.c the Capital Raise Amount, takmg mto account the

I 1776~-J 12683-vO 1

-I -

70-41l'i)8S9J

#149

proceeds of any placings of New Shmes authonsed pursuant to pa1ag1aph~ (b) 01 (c)
ofth1s Resolut1on, on the basis dcsc11bed 111 the Circular be and 1s hereby app1ovcd,
(el

m add1t1on to the authonttes set out m the New A111cles, the dtreetrns of the Company
be and arc hereby uncond1t1onally authonsed pursuant to section 551 of the
Compa111e> Act 2006 (the "Act") to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot
shares (as defined 111 sectton 540 of the Act) 111 the Company 01 grant nghts to
subsenbe for or to convcn any >ccunty mto shares m the Company up to an aggregate
nommal amount of €32 m1ll10n, such authont1es to expire on the date 1mmcd1ately
follow mg completion of the Capital Raise but so that the Company may make offers
and enter mto agiccments before the authonty expires wluch would, 01 might, requue
shares lo be allotted or nghts to subsc11be for or to convert any sccunty mto shares to
be granted aftc1 the anth011ty exptres and the dJTectors may allot shares or grant such
nghts under any such offer or agreement as 1f the authonty had not expucd,

(f)

m addition to the authonttcs set out 111 the New Articles, the directors of the Company
be and arc hereby empowc1cd pursuant to scctmn 571 of the Act to allot equity
seem 1t1es (as defined 111 section 560 of the Act) for cash pursuant to the authonlles
contained m this Resolution free of the restnct1on 111 section 561 of the Act. such
powe1 to expu c on the date 1mmediately followmg complct1on of the Capital Raise
but so that the Company may make offers and enter mto agreements befo1c the
authonty cxpues which would, or might, 1equne >hares to be allotted or nghts to
subscribe for 01 to convert any secunty mto shares to be granted after the authonty
expires and the directors may allot shares or grant such nghts under any such offer or
agreement as 1fthe authonty had not expired, and

(g)

the du cctors of the Company be and are hereby authonscd to do or procure to be done
all such acts and thmg> on behalf of the Company as they consider necessary or
expedient for the purposes of g1vmg effect to the Tran~aclton provided that no such
act or tl11ng 1s matenally mcons1stent with any matter dcscnbed m the Circular

CHAIRMAN

-2-

70-4053~~93

Company No. 4743602

THE COMPANIES ACT 1985
THE COMPANIES ACT 2006

PRIVATE COMPANY LIMITED BY SHARES

ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
of
LCH.CLEARNET GROUP LIMITED
Incorporated 24 Apnl 2003
(Adopted by special resolution of the shareholders passed on 27 March 2013)

CONTENTS
CLAUSE

PRELIMINARY

PAGE

3

2

PRIVATE COMPANY

17

3

OPERATION OF THE COMPANY

17

4

SHARE CAPITAL

18

5

ALTERATION OF SHARE CAPITAL

24

6

SHARE RIGHTS

24

7

VARIATION OF CLASS RIGHTS

30

8

COMPANY SECRETARY VOTING RIGHTS

30

9

SHARE CERTIFICATES

31

10

LIEN

32

II

CALLS ON SHARES, FORFEITURE AND SURRENDER

32

12

TRANSFER OF SHARES

34

13

COMPULSORY TRANSFER

40

14

GENERAL MEETINGS

42

15

NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETINGS

43

16

PROCEEDINGS AT SHAREHOLDERS' MEETINGS

43

17

VOTES OF SHAREHOLDERS

46

18

COMPOSITION OF BOARD

49

19

POWERS OF DIRECTORS

51

20

DELEGATION OF DIRECTORS' POWERS

52

21

COMMITTEES

52

22

APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS

53

23

DISQUALIFICATION AND REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS

53

24

ALTERNATE DIRECTORS

54

25

REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS

55

26

DIRECTORS' APPOINTMENTS AND INTERESTS

56

27

DIRECTORS' EXPENSES

60

28

PROCEEDINGS OF DIRECTORS

60

29

COMPANY SECRETARY

64

30

MINUTES

64

31

THE SEAL

64

32

DIVIDENDS

64

33

ACCOUNTS

67

34

CAPITALISATION OF PROFITS

67

35

NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS BY THE COMPANY

68

36

DESTRUCTION OF DOCUMENTS

69

37

CERTIFICATION

70

38

PROVISION FOR EMPLOYEES ON CESSATION OF BUSINESS

70

39

WINDING UP

71

40

INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE

71

Company No 4743602
THE COMPANIES ACT 1985
THE COMPANIES ACT 2006

PRIVATE COMPANY LIMITED BY SHARES

ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
of
LCH CLEARNET GROUP LIMITED
Incorporated 24 Apnl 2003
(Adopted by special resolut10n of the shareholders passed on 27 March 2013)

1.

PRELIMINARY

11

In these Articles

5 Per Cent. Interest means the entitlement to exercise or control the exercise of at least 5 per
cent of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetmgs of the
Company,
I 0 Per Cent. Interest means the entttlement to exercise or control the exercise of at least 10
per cent of the votes able to be cast on all or substanttally all matters at general meetmgs of
the Company,
Acceptance Period has the meanmg given thereto m article 12 7,
ACP means the Autonte de controle prudenttel,
Act means the Compames Act 2006,
Additional Sale Closing Date has the meamng given thereto m article 13 5(c),
Additional Sale Notice has the meamng given thereto m article 13 5,
Additional Sale Price has the meanmg given thereto m article 13 5(a),
address has the same meanmg as m sectton 1148 of the Act,
alternate or alternate director means a person appomted pursuant to article 24,
appomtor has the meanmg given thereto m article 24 1,
Articles means the Company's articles of assocrntton, as altered from time to time by special
resolution,

Assets has the meanmg given thereto m article 6 24,
associate means, m relat10n to a body corporate (the first body corporate)
(a)

any other body corporate which is a subsidiary undertakmg of the first body corporate
or, m relat10n to a first body corporate other than the Company, any other body
corporate that is a parent undertakmg of the first body corporate or fellow subsidiary
undertakmg of that parent undertakmg,

(b)

any body corporate whose directors are accustomed to act m accordance with the first
body corporate's mstrucllons or direcllons, and

(c)

any body corporate m the capital of which the first body corporate, and any other
body corporate under (a) or (b) taken together, is (or would on the fulfilment of a
condillon or the occurrence of a contmgency be) mterested so that they are (or would
on the fulfilment of the condit10n or the occurrence of the contingency be) able
(i)

to exercise or control the exercise of, directly or indirectly, more than 50 per
cent of the votes able to be cast at general meetings on all, or substanllally
all, matters,

(n)

to appoint or remove directors holdmg a maJonty of voting nghts at board
meetmgs on all, or substantially all, matters, or

(m)

to direct or cause the direct10n of the management and policies of such enllty,
directly or mdirectly, whether through the ownership of voting secunties, by
contract or otherwise,

and associated with shall be construed accordmgly,
bankruptcy mcludes mdividual msolvency proceedings m a JUnsdiction other than England
and Wales or Northern Ireland which have an effect similar to that of bankruptcy,
Board means the board of directors from llme to llme of the Company (or a duly appmnted
comrmttee of the Board),
Budget means the Imtial Budget and, m relat10n to years comrnencmg after 31 December
2013, the then current annual budget of the Company, as acknowledged or approved by the
Board,
Business Day means a day on which the banks are ordmanly open for busmess m London and
Pans excludmg Saturdays, Sundays and pubhc holidays m England or France,
Business Plan means the lmllal Busmess Plan and, m relat10n to years commencmg after 31
December 2013, the then current busmess plan of the Company, as acknowledged or
approved by the Board,
Buy Notice has the meaning given thereto m article 12 8,
Buyer has the meanmg given thereto m article 12 26(b),

Capital Deficiency Event means the occurrence of either of the following events
(a)

a decline in the Consolidated Capital Ratio, calculated in accordance with the Capital
Regulations, to below the minimum percentage requtred by the Regulator accordmg
to the Capital Regulations (a Minimum Percentage Decline), or

(b)

the not1ficat10n by the Regulator, in its sole d1screllon, to the General Partner or to the
Company that 1t has determined, in view of the detenorating financial cond1tlon of the
Company that a Minrmum Percentage Decline will occur in the near term,

Capital Disqualification Event means the General Partner has determined, after consultat10n
with the Regulator, that secuntles m the nature of the Preferred Secuntles or the NCPSs, as
appropnate, no longer qualify in calculating the Tier l Capital of the Company on a
consolidated basts under the Capital Regulallons,
Capital Regulations means at any time the regulat10ns, reqmrements, gmdelines and policies
relating to capital adequacy then in effect of the French Ministry of Finance applied by the
Regulator, or such other authonty in France (or elsewhere) havmg pnmary bank supervisory
authonty with respect to the Company,
Capital Return Event means a return of capital on a windmg up of the Company or
otherwise,
Capped Shareholder has the meaning given thereto m article 4 26,
Cash Subscription Price has the meaning given thereto m article 4 9,
CEO means the chief executive officer for the tlme bemg of the Company,
CFTC means the U S Commod1t1es Futures and Tradmg Comnuss10n,
Chairman has the meanmg given in article 28 15,
clear days means, in relatlon to a penod of notlce, that penod excludmg the day when the
nollce 1s given or deemed to be given and the day for which 1t 1s given or on which 1t is to
take effect,
Clearing Agreement means any cleanng agreement or any cleanng membership agreement
made between any person and any member of the LCH Clearnet Group which has not been
terrnmated (where notice of tenmnat10n has been validly given, the date of termination shall
be the date of the notice ( m the case of a notice served by the cleanng member) or the date on
which such notice expires (in the case of a notice served by the Company),
clearing member means a person which 1s a party to, or whose associate 1s a party to, a
Cleanng Agreement,
Clearing Participants means those persons other than LSEG which are Eligible Instltut10ns,
Clearing Rules means the cleanng rules compnsed m the rule books of members of the
LCH Clearnet Group from tlme to time,
Closing Date means 18 May 2007,
Company means LCH Clearnet Group L1nuted,

Company Books means any accountmg records or other book or document of the Company,
Company Secretary means the secretary of the Company or any other person appomted to
perform the duties of the secretary of the Company, mcludmg a JOmt, assistant or deputy
secretary,
Company's Accountants means an appropnate firm of accountants of mtemat1onal repute as
selected by the Company from time to time,
completion date has the meamng given thereto m article 13 6(c),
Compulsory Sale Notice means a notice served by the Company requmng a Compulsory
Seller to appomt the Company as its agent to offer some or all of its Ordmary Shares for sale
pursuant to articles 4 23 and 4 24 or pursuant to article 13, as the context requ1res,
Compulsory Seller means a person whose Ordmary Shares are to be transferred pursuant to
articles 4 24 and 4 25 or pursuant to article 13, as the context reqmres,
Compulsory Transfer Excess Shares has the meanmg given thereto m article 13 4(e),
Condition Period has the meanmg given thereto m article 12 11,
conflict of interest has the meanmg given thereto m article 26 3,
Conflict Situation has the meanmg given thereto m article 28 23,
Conflicted Shareholder has the meanmg given thereto m article 28 23,
Consent Date has the meamng given thereto m article 4 9,
Consolidated Capital Ratio means the total nsk-based capital rat10 of the Company and its
consohdated Subs1dianes,
Consolidated Net Income means the consohdated net mcome (excludmg mmonty mterests)
of the Company, as calculated and set out m the audited annual consolidated financial
statements of the Company,
Continuing Shareholders means the shareholders other than (1) the Sellmg Shareholder and
(11) 1f the Sellmg Shareholder 1s a Venue Shareholder and has served a Transfer Notice on
LSEG m accordance with article 12 15 and LSEG has failed to send a Buy Notice to the
Selhng Venue Shareholder before the expiry of the relevant Acceptance Penod, LSEG,
Controlling Interest means the entitlement to exercise or control the exercise of more than 50
per cent of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetmgs of
the Company,
Core Operating Principles means the pnnc1ples to be apphed by the Board m managmg the
busmess of the Company, as set out m and adopted pursuant to the Implementat10n
Agreement and as may be amended m accordance with these Articles from time to lime,
Customer has the meamng set out m the CFTC Rules as m force from time to time,
Customer Director means a director who 1s nommated by a Customer or who 1s otherwise
connected to a Customer by virtue of his employment or d1rectorsh1p,

director means a d!fector of the Company, and mcludes any person occupymg the pos11Ion of
d!fector, by whatever name called and the directors means the d!fectors or any of them actmg
as the board of dlfectors of the Company,
Dissolved Shareholder means a shareholder which has been dissolved or struck off or any
equivalent status under the laws of any other Junsd1ct10n,
Dissolved Shareholder's representative means a hqmdator or other person who 1s enlltled to
receive notice and/or receive assets or payment as appropnate on behalf of a Dissolved
Shareholder,
Distributable Profits means the Company's accumulated reahsed profits, so far as not
prev10usly ullhsed by d1stnbut10n or cap1tahsallon, less its accumulated realised losses, so far
as not prev10usly wntten-off m a reduct10n or reorgamsauon of capital duly made, or such
profits as the Company may lawfully d1stnbute m accordance with secllon 830 of the Act (as
amended or re-enacted from time to llme), 1f different For the purposes of this defimt10n,
references to realised profits and realised losses are to such profits or losses of the Company
as fall to be treated as reahsed m accordance with pnnc1ples generally accepted at the llme
when the relevant accounts are prepared, with respect to the determmallon for accountmg
purposes of reahsed profits or losses,
Distribution means a non-cumulallve d1stnbut10n m respect of the Preferred Secunt1es,
Distribution Payment Date means 18 May m each year commencmg on 18 May 2008 to (and
mcludmg) the NCPS First Call Date and thereafter 18 February, 18 May, 18 August and 18
November m each year save that 1f any D1stnbut10n Payment Date after the NCPS Fmt Call
Date would otherwise fall on a day which 1s not a TARGET Busmess Day, 11 shall be
postponed to the next day which 1s a TARGET Busmess Day unless 1t would then fall mto the
next calendar month m which event the D1stnbut10n Payment Date shall be brought forward
to the 1mmed1ately precedmg TARGET Busmess Day and Distribution Payment Date shall
be construed accordmgly,
Distribution Period means the penod from, and mcludmg, the Closmg Date to, but excludmg
the first D1stnbut1on Payment Date and each penod thereafter from, and mc\udmg, one
D1stnbullon Payment Date to, but excludmg, the next followmg D1stnbut10n Payment Date,
distribution recipient has the meamng given m article 32 8,
D1v1dend Stopper Period means, with respect to any D1stnbut10n Payment Date, any NCPS
D1v1dend Payment Date or the eqmvalent term m respect of any Parity Secunty one calendar
year from and mcludmg the earher of the date (a) on which either a full D1stnbut10n on the
Preferred Secunt1es or a NCPS D1v1dend, as appropnate, 1s not paid or (b) on which a full
scheduled d1v1dend or d1stnbullon on any Panty Secunty has not been paid,
document mcludes, unless otherwise specified, any document sent or supphed m electromc
form,

Dormant Member has the meamng given thereto m article 6 4,
electronic form has the meanmg given m secllon 1168 of the Act,
Eligible Institution Associate means a person who 1s for the llme bemg an associate of an
Ehg1ble Inst1tut10n,

Eligible Institutions means
(a)

mter-dealer brokers,

(b)

cleanng members,

(c)

financial mst1tuttons or mvestors which are buy-side, mdirect "users'', mcludmg asset
managers,

(d)

Exchanges, and

(e)

subject 10 the consent of LSEG (not to be unreasonably delayed) for so long as 1t and
any other member of its Group hold m aggregate a S1gmficant Interest m the
Company, any other category of market part1c1pant with a leg1t1mate commumty of
mterest with the busmess of the LCH Cleamet Group, as deterrmned by the Board
from time to time,

provided m the case of each entity other than LSEG and any other member of its Group that
the number of the relevant entity's contracts or trades (as the case may be) cleared by the
LCH Cleamet Group 1s considered by the Board to be s1gmficant or the relevant enttty
otherwise demonstrates a mutual busmess relationship or mterest to the sattsfact10n of the
Board, actmg reasonably, and the Board may take mto account the regulatory good standmg
of such entity when deterrmnmg whether 1t 1s so satisfied,
and Eligible Institution means any one of them,

Enumerated Entity means a person which 1s captured by the defimtlon of "enumerated enttty"
as such term 1s defined m the Rules of the U S Commodity Futures Tradmg Cormruss1on
from time to time or many applicable successor law or regulation or eqmvalent rules and, for
the avoidance of doubt, excludes LSEG,
Equity Proportions means the respective proportions m which Ordmary Shares are held from
time to time by each of the shareholders except that, 1f the expressmn Eqmty Proportion 1s
used m the context of some (but not all) of the shareholders, 1t shall mean the respective
proportmns m which Ordmary Shares are held by those particular shareholders,
EURJBOR means
(a)

the rate for deposits m Euro for a penod of 3 months which appears on Reuters Page
EURJBOROI as of 11 00 am, Brussels time,

(b)

1f such rate does not appear on Reuters Page EURIBORO I, the rate for that
D1stnbut10n Penod will be determmed as 1f the parties had specified "EUREURJBOR-Reference Banks" (as such term 1s defined m the 2000 ISDA Defimt10ns
as pubhshed by the lntematmnal Swaps and Denvat1ves Assocrnt10n, Inc (the ISDA
Definitions)) where the Reset Date 1s the first day of the relevant D1stnbut1on Penod
and the Designated Matunty 1s 3 months and where the terms Reset Date and
Designated Maturity have the meanmgs given to those terms m the ISDA
Defimtmns,

provided that any calculat10n of the rate of mterest by the Company and of each such mterest
amount shall, m the absence of mamfest error, be final and bmdmg,

Euro or € means the currency mtroduced at the start of the third stage of the European
Economic and Monetary Umon pursuant to the Treaty of Rome estabhshmg the European
Commumty, as amended by the Treaty on European Umon,
Euronext Director means a d1rector appomted by NYSE Euronext tn accordance with the
prov1s10ns of article 22 1,
Excess New Shares has the meanmg given m article 4 6(c),
Exchanges means any operatmg entity of, or market or tradmg fac1hty operated by,
settlement fac1hty providers or tradmg platforms, mcludmg but not hm1ted to
(a)

a tradmg venue regulated under Council D1rect1ve 2004/39/EC of Apnl 21, 2004 on
markets tn financial mstruments (MiFID) as amended or replaced, mcludmg but not
hm1ted to a regulated market as defined under article 4(1)(14) of M1FID and a
mullilateral tradmg fac1hty as defined under article 4( 1)(15) of M1FID,

(b)

a tradmg venue located outside the European Um on, which has been approved by
local authonlles based on reqmrements s1m1lar to those used under the M1FID,

(c)

an orgamsed market (defined as a market or tradmg fac1hty that 1s charactensed by a
set of formal and non-d1scret10nary rules, procedures and processes which match (or
register for matchmg) multiple buy and sell mterests m financial mstruments,
commod11ies or any other mstrurnent on a contmuous or penod1c basis so as to allow
the execut10n of transaclions, the pnces of which are determmed by the mteract1on of
tradmg mterests on that system (whether through the matchmg of pnced orders or the
hftmg of quotes)), or

(d)

a tradmg venue subject to regulat10n under the federal secunl!es or commod111es laws
of the Umted States, 1Dclud1Dg but not hm1ted to (1) a designated contract market,
swap execut10n fac1hty, board of trade and tradmg fac1hty (each as defined ID the US
Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, and the regulat10ns promulgated thereunder),
and (11) an exchange, secunty-based swap execution fac1hty and alternalive tradmg
system (each as defined ID the US Secunlies Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and
the regulations promulgated thereunder),

and each an Exchange,

executed means any mode of execution,
Executive Delegation means the agreed form of board delegat10n to the CEO, as set out m
and adopted pursuant to the lmplementat1on Agreement,
Expert has the meamng given thereto

ID

article 4 9,

Fair Market Value means the value of a share as certified to the Company by the Company's
Accountants, such persons acting as experts and not as arbitrators (in the case of a compulsory
trarisfer in accordance with article 13, the cost of the Company's Accountants is to be
deducted from the proceeds of sale by the Company) which shall, in the absence of fraud or
manifest error, be final and binding on the parties Such share shall be valued on the basis of a
sale between a willing seller and a willing buyer and, in determining such market value, the
Company's Accountants shall be instructed in particular to assume that
(a)

the relevant Share is being sold as between a willing buyer and a willing seller at
arm's length for cash payable in full on comple!lon, and

(b)

the relevant share is capable of transfer without restnct10n,

in each case taking full account of the loan capital and debt structure of the LCH Clearnet
Group and having regard to the size of the seller's shareholdmg,

Financial Year means each penod determined in accordance with sect10n 390 of the Act
preceding the accounting reference date of the Company as registered at Companies House,
Fully Diluted Share Capital means the aggregate of the number of Ordinary Shares in issue
from !lme to time,

fully paid in relation to a share, mearis that the nommal value and any premmm to be paid to
the Company in respect of that share have been paid to the Company,

Future Venue Partner means any Venue or inter-dealer broker which the Board determmes
should become a shareholder of the Company,

General Partner means LCH Clearnet GP L1m1ted, a wholly owned subsidiary of the
Company, or any other entity appointed by the Company to replace it as the general partner of
the Issuer,
Group means, in rela!lon to any corporate en!lty, that entlty and its associates,
hard copy form has the meaning given in sec!lon 1168 of the Act,
holder means, in rela!lon to a share, the person whose name is entered in the register of
members as the holder of that share,

Implementation Agreement means the agreement between the Company, LSEG and London
Stock Exchange (C) L1m1ted dated 7 March 2013, settmg out certain obhga!lons and
commitments of the parties in rela!lon to the 1mplementat10n of the LSEG Acqu1S1Uon,

in writing means in hard copy form or, to the extent perrrutted by the Act, in any other form,
inactive member means, m relation to a User Shareholder, a User Shareholder which has not,
and no associate of which has, used the clearing services of any member of the LCH Clearnet
Group for a mm1mum contmuous penod of 3 months and, m rela!lon to a Venue Shareholder,
a Venue Shareholder which has not, and no associate of which has, no!lfied any member of
the LCH Clearnet Group of any trade to be cleared for a mm1mum continuous penod of 3
months,

Independent Director means an mdependent director, who sa!lsfies applicable Regulatory
Reqmrements relatmg to independent directors and who is either a member of the Board on

the date of adoption of these Articles or 1s appomted m accordance with the terms of the
Relat10nsh1p Agreement and the Nommat10n Committee terms of reference,

Initial Business Plan means the medmm term financial plan of the Company for the years
2013 to 2017, as acknowledged or approved by the Board,

Initial Value means, m relat10n to each Ordmary Share, ten Euros (€10) and m relation to
each NCPS, fifty thousand Euros (€50,000), except where there has been any consohdatlon
and/or subd1v1s10n of the share capital of the Company and an adjustment has been made by
the Board (m such mariner as 1t shall determme to be fair and reasonable, subject to the
wntten confirmat10n of the Company's Accountants (actmg as expert and not as arbitrator)
that the adjustment 1s m their opm1on fair and reasonable) For the avoidance of doubt, the
lmt1al Value may differ accordmg to the class of share concerned,

instrument means a document m hard copy form,
issue mcludes unconditional allotment,
Issue Notice has the meanmg given m article 4 6(b),
Issuer means LCH Clearnet Fundmg LP,
LCH.Clearnet Group means the Company and 1ts associates and member of the
LCH.Clearnet Group means any one such entity,
Loss Absorbency Event means a Capital Deficiency Event has occurred and has contmued for
a penod of six months and has not been cured or the Consohdated Capital Ratio of the
Company has not been restored to above the mm1mum percentage reqmred by the Regulator
accordmg to the Capital Regulat10ns,
LSE Clearing Agreement means the clearmg agreement between LCH Clearnet L1m1ted and
London Stock Exchange pie dated 11 December 2008, as amended from time to time,

LSEG means London Stock Exchange Group pie and any person that 1s not a member of
LSEG's Group to which all the shares held by LSEG and any other member of its Group from
time to time are transferred, and references to the nghts and obhgat10ns of LSEG shall be
deemed to be references to the nghts and obhgat1ons of any member of LSEG's Group that 1s
a shareholder,

LSEG Acquisition means the acqms1t1on by LSEG of a controllmg mterest m the Company
pursuant to an offer made by London Stock Exchange (C) L1m1ted to acqmre, or procure
acquirers for, the entire issued share capital of the Company on the terms and subject to the
cond1t10ns set out m an offer document dated 11 March 2013 and the associated form of
acceptance,

LSEG Audit Representative means the LSEG chief financial officer, the LSEG head of audit
or LSEG chief nsk officer, or any other person of appropriate semonty and expertise as may
be agreed from time to time between LSEG and the Chamnan to sit on the audit committee,
LSEG Consent Matters has the meanmg given thereto m the Relat10nsh1p Agreement,
LSEG Director means a director appomted by LSEG m accordance with the terms of the
Relat10nsh1p Agreement,

LSEG Group means LSEG and its associates and member of the LSEG Group means any
one such entity,
LSEG Initial Percentage means the shareholdmg of LSEG's Group (expressed as a
percentage of the Company's issued share capital) on compleuon of the LSEG Acquisition,
takmg mto account any shares allotted to LSEG pursuant to clause 9 6 of the lmplementat10n
Agreement,
LSEG NomCom Representative means any person of appropnate semonty and expertise as
may be agreed from time to time between LSEG and the Chairman to sit on the nomination
comm1ttee,

LSEG Representative means any person of appropnate semonty and expertise as may be
agreed from tlme to tlme between LSEG and the Chairman,
Mater1al Interest means the entltlement to exercise or control the exercise of at least 20 per
cent of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetmgs of the
Company,
Mmor1ty Protection Reserved Matters has the meamng given thereto m the Relat10nship
Agreement,
Misrepresenting Member has the meanmg given thereto m article 6 4(b ),
NCPS means a non-cumulative callable preference share of one Euro (€!) m the capital of the
Company havmg the nghts set out m articles 6 16,
NCPS Dividend has the meanmg given thereto m article 6 17,
NCPS Dividend Payment Date has the meamng given thereto m article 6 18,
NCPS Dividend Period means m respect of the first NCPS Dividend the penod from (and
mcludmg) the date of the Return to Profitab1hty to (but excludmg) the next D1stnbut10n
Payment Date and each penod thereafter from, and mcludmg, one Distnbut1on Payment Date
to, but excludmg, the next followmg D1stnbut1on Payment Date,
NCPS First Call Date means 18 May 2017,
NCPS Liquidation Payment has the meanmg given thereto m article 6 24,
NCPS Redemption Value has the meamng given thereto m article 6 27,
NCPS Value means fifty thousand Euros (€50,000),
Nomination Committee means the committee appointed by the Board to nommate, m
accordance with the Nommauon Committee terms of reference from time to time, suitable
candidates to stand for election on the Board and the boards of operatmg entitles withm the
LCH Cleamet Group,
Non-Clearing Member has the meamng given thereto m article 6 4(a),
Non-Voting Shares means the non-votmg non-redeemable shares of one Euro each m the
capital of the Company, havmg the nghts set out m articles 6 10 to 6 15 (mclusive),

NYSE Euronext means a Delaware corporat10n orgamsed on May 22, 2006 and whose
pnnc1pal executive office 1s located at l l Wall Street, New York, New York 10005, USA, or
any successor or surv1vmg entity,
NYSE Euronext Group means NYSE Euronext and its associates, which, for the avmdance
of doubt, shall exclude the LCH Cleamet Group, and member of the NYSE Euronext Group
means any one such entity or mterest,
Offer Terms has the meanmg given thereto m article 12 6(d),
Offerees has the meamng given thereto m article 13 5,
office means the registered office of the Company,
ordinary resolution has the meamng given m section 282 of the Act,
Ordinary Share means a votmg redeemable share of one Euro (€I) m the capital of the
Company, havmg the nghts set out m article 6 I,
Ordinary Share redemption money has the meanmg given thereto m article 6 6,
Other Shareholders has the meanmg given thereto m an1cle 13 4,
paid means paid or credited as paid,
parent undertaking has, m relat10n to an undertakmg, the same meanmg as m sect10n 1162 of
the Act,
Parity Security means any preference shares (other than the NCPSs), preferred secuntles
(other than the Preferred Secunt1es) or other secunt1es either (a) issued directly by the
Company and expressed to rank pan passu with the Company's obhgat1ons under the
Subordmated Guarantee or (b) issued by the issuer or any subsidiary of the Company or other
entity and entitled to the benefit of the Subordmated Guarantee or any other guarantee or
support agreement expressed to rank pan passu with the Subordmated Guarantee,
participate, m relation to a directors' meetmg, has the meanmg given m article 28 8,
Permissible Capital means the capital of the Company which may be used to redeem shares
m accordance with sections 710, 711 and 712 of the Act,
Preferred Securihes means the €200,000,000 fixed rate/floatmg rate guaranteed non-votmg
non-cumulative perpetual preferred secunues, ongmally issued on the Closmg Date m
denommat10ns of €50,000 each representmg an mterest m the Issuer and mcludmg any further
Preferred Secunt1es of the Issuer of the same senes issued after the Closmg Date and rankmg
pan passu with the Preferred Securities as regards part1c1pat10n m the profits and assets of the
Issuer,
present has the meanmg given thereto m article I 5,
Pro Raia Enhtlement has the meamng given thereto m article 13 4(d),
Pro Raia Share Entitlement has the meamng given thereto m article 4 6(a),
Proportionate Entitlement has the meanmg given thereto m article 12 6,

Purchaser has the meamng given thereto in article 13 6(a),
Purchasing Other Shareholder has the meamng given thereto in article 13 4(1)(11),
Push Matters has the meaning given thereto in the Relationship Agreement,
Push Notice has the meamng given thereto in article 19 4,
Push Resolution has the meaning given thereto in article 19 7,
Redemption Date means the NCPS Ftrst Call Date or any NCPS Dividend Payment Date
thereafter in respect of which the Company has elected to redeem the NCPS in accordance
with article 6 27,
Redemptwn Money means the NCPS Redemption Value,
Reference Banks means HSBC Bank, ABN Amro and BNP Panbas,
Regulator means the ACP and the Secretariat General acting on its behalf or such other
nallonal or supranational regulatory authonty as may at the relevant llme have responsibility
for the regulation and supervision of the Company,
Regulatory Body means any govermnental, taxation, regulatory or hcensmg authonty having
JUnsdicllon over any member of the LCH Clearnet Group, mcluding, but not lnruted to, in the
UK, the UK Govermnent, the UK Customs and Excise, the UK Inland Revenue, the UK
Office of Fatr Tradmg, the Financial Services Authonty, in the USA, the Commodity Fulllfes
Trading Commission, the Umted States Secunlles and Exchange Commission, in France, the
ACP and the Autorzte des marches financiers, in the European Umon, the European
Comrmssion, and the eqmvalent authonlles m the Netherlands, Belgrnm, Portugal, Italy,
Japan and in any other country in which the LCH Clearnet Group carnes on business
includmg successors thereto,
Regulatory Requirements means, with respect to the Company, any regulation or requffement
of applicable law or of any applicable Regulatory Body, or any request of any applicable
Regulatory Body failure to comply with which would result or would reasonably be expected
by the Company to result in the withdrawal of authonsat10n necessary to conduct cleanng
business in any relevant JUnsdict10n or other disciplinary or enforcement acl!on that would
have a matenal adverse effect on the ability of any member of the LCH Clearnet Group to
conduct cleanng business in any relevant JUnsdict10n,
Relationship Agreement means the relationship agreement entered into by the Company,
LSEG and London Stock Exchange (C) Limited pursuant to the Implemental!on Agreement,
including the schedules thereto, as the same may be amended from time to lime,
Relevant Capacity means acting in the capacity as the holder of any of the Non-Voting Shares
or the SpeCJal Share or exercising any nghts attaching to any such shares,
Relevant Votes means those votes which attach to the Special Share and which are
exercisable by the Company Secretary under articles 6 7, 17 l and 17 3,
representative has the meaning given thereto in article 17 14,
Return to Profitability means (a) no Capital Deficiency Event 1s continuing at such IIme and
(b) the Company has recorded pos11Ive Consolidated Net Income for at least two consecul!ve

fiscal years followmg the end of the fiscal year m which the relevant Loss Absorbency Event
occurred,

ROFR Excess Shares has the meamng given thereto m article 12 10,

Sale Closing Date has the meamng given thereto m article 13 4(1),
Sale Price has the meamng given thereto m article 13 3,
Sale Proportion means the proport10n which the Seller's Shares to be transferred to the Buyer
(or, where more than one, to each Buyer) bears to the number of Seller's Shares held by the
Seller pnor to the transfer,
Sale Shares means the Ordmary Shares of the Compulsory Seller which are to be transferred
pursuant to articles 4 24 and 4 25 or pursuant to article 13, as the context requires,
seal means the common seal of the Company,
Seller's Shares has the meanmg given thereto m article 12 6,
Selling Shareholder has the meanmg given thereto m article 12 6,
Selling Venue Shareholder has the meanmg given thereto m article 12 15,
share means a share m the capital of the Company from time to time,
shareholder means a member of the Company from time to time,
Shareholder Director has the meanmg given thereto m article 28 24,
shareholding means the number of Ordmary Shares held by a shareholder,
Shareholding Cap means any limit on the number of Ordmary Shares which a shareholder
together with its associates may hold (directly or md1rectly) as set by the Board pursuant to
article 4 21, article 4 22 or article 4 23,
Significant Interest means the entitlement to exercise or control the exercise of at least 40 per
cent of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetmgs of the
Company,
special resolution has the meamng given m sect10n 283 of the Act,
Special Share means an Ordmary Share held by the Company Secretary,
Specified Pr1ce has the meamng given thereto m article 12 6(b),
Subordinated Guarantee means the subordmated guarantee m respect of the Preferred
Secunt1es executed by the Company on the Closmg Date as a deed poll,
Subscr1ption Price has the meanmg given thereto m article 4 6(b),
Subsidiary has, m relat10n to an undertakmg, the same meamng as m section 1159 of the Act,

subsidiary undertaking has, m relat10n to an undertakmg, the same meanmg as m sect10n
1162 of the Act,
Sufficient Distributable Reserves has the meanmg given thereto m article 6 20,
TARGET Business Day means a day on which the Trans-European Automatic Real-Time
Gross Settlement Express Transfer System (TARGET2) 1s operatmg,
Termination has the meanmg given thereto m article 6 4,
Thtrd-Party Purchaser has the meanmg given m article 12 6( c),
Tier I Capital has the meanmg ascnbed to 1t m Regula!Ion No 90-02 of 23 February 1990
relating to own funds and in the memorandum of the ACP relatmg to the calculat1on method
of the solvency rat10 of 2012 or any successor regula!Ion and memorandum or eqmvalent
rules of the Regulator,
Transfer Notice has the meanmg given m article 12 6,
Transferee has the meanmg given m article 12 25,
Transferor has the meaning given m article 12 25,
undertaking means a body corporate or partnership or unmcorporated assoc1at10n carrymg on
a trade or busmess with or without a view to profit,
United Kingdom or UK means the Umted Kingdom of Great Bntain and Northern Ireland,
User Director means a director who 1s nommated by a User Shareholder or who 1s otherwise
connected to a User Shareholder by virtue of his employment or directorsh1p and, for the
avmdance of doubt, excludes a Customer Director,
User Shareholder means a shareholder that 1s a User,
Users means Cleanng Participants other than Venues,
Venue Director means a director who 1s nommated by a Venue Shareholder or who 1s
otherwise connected to a Venue Shareholder by virtue of his employment or directorsh1p,
Venue Shareholder means a shareholder that 1s a Venue,
Venues means Cleanng Part1c1pants which are Exchanges, and
Voting Cap means any hm1t on the number of votes attachmg to shares which a shareholder
together with its associates may exercise as set by the Board pursuant to article 17 2
Unless the context otherwise reqmres, words and expressions to which a particular
I2
meaning 1s given by the Act as m force when the Articles are adopted shall have the same
meanmg m the Art1cles, except where the word or expression 1s otherwise defined m the
Articles
l3
Where an ordmary resolution of the Company 1s expressed to be reqmred for any
purpose, a special resolut10n 1s also effecllve for that purpose

14
References to any statutory prov1s1on or statute mclude all mod1ficat1ons thereto and
all re-enactments thereof (with or without mod1ficat10n) and all subordmate leg1slat10n made
thereunder m each case for the time bemg m force This article does not affect the
mterpretation of article 1 2
15
A member 1s present at a meetmg 1f the member (bemg an md1v1dual) attends m
person or 1f the member (bemg a corporat10n) attends by its duly authonsed representative,
who attends m person, or 1f the member attends by his or its duly appomted proxy, who
attends m person
16
Where these Articles provide for a date on or by which anythmg 1s to be done and
such date 1s not a Busmess Day, that thmg must be done on the next Busmess Day

I7

A reference to

(a)

a dec1S1on or detennmat10n made by "the Board" means a dec1s1on or detennmat1on
made by a maJonty of the members of the Board votmg on the issue m quest10n,

(b)

a person mcludes a reference to a corporauon, body corporate, association or
partnership,

(c)

the smgular mcludes the plural and vice versa,

(d)

the masculme mcludes the femmme and vice versa, and

(e)

an article, unless the context otherwise reqmres, 1s a reference to an article of these
Articles

l8
No regulat10ns contamed m any statute or subordmate leg1slat10n, mcludmg the
regulat10ns contamed m Table A m the schedule to the Compames (Table A to F) Regulat10ns
l 985 or the model articles contamed m the schedule to the Companies (Model Articles)
Regulat10ns 2008 apply as the regulat10ns or articles of associat10n of the Company
2.

PRIVATE COMPANY

2I

The Company 1s a pnvate company hm1ted by shares

22
The hab1hty of the Company's members 1s hm1ted to the amount, 1f any, unpaid on
the shares held by them
3.

OPERATION OF THE COMPANY

3I
The Company shall be run at all times m accordance with the Core Operatmg
Pnnc1ples
32
Any matenal amendment to the Relat10nsh1p Agreement (save for any amendment(s)
pursuant to any legal or regulatory reqmrement) may only be made by special resolut10n The
detennmat10n of whether a proposed amendment to the Relat1onsh1p Agreement 1s matenal
shall be made by a maJonty dec1s10n of the Independent D1rectors
33
A Mmonty Protection Reserved Matter that 1s requ1red to be approved by
shareholders pursuant to the Relat1onsh1p Agreement shall not occur or be implemented
unless 1t has also been approved by special resolution

4.

SHARE CAPITAL

Directors' Allotment Powers
41
Except to the extent authonsed by these Articles, the duectors shall not exercise any
power to allot shares ID the Company or to grant nghts to subscnbe for or convert any
secunty IDto any shares ID the Company
42
Subject to the Act and this article 4, the d1rectors have general and uncond1t10nal
authonty to allot (with or without confemng nghts ofrenunc1at1on), grant opt10ns over, offer
or otherwise deal with or dispose of all shares for the time begID ID the capital of the
Company (whether fonmng part of the ongIDal or any IDcreased share capital) and to grant
nghts to subscnbe for or convert any secunty IDto shares to such persons, at such times and
on such terms and cond1t1ons as the d1rectors may decide, except that
(a)

no share may be issued for less than the aggregate of its nomIDal value and any
premmm to be paid to the Company ID cons1derat10n for Its issue, and

(b)

no share may be issued to any person unless
(1)

such person 1s, or will become ID connect10n with such issue, an Ehg1ble
Inst1tut1on or an Ehg1ble Inst1tut1on Associate, and

(u)

such issue has been approved by the Board

Subject to this article 4 and to any resolut10n of the Company ID general meetIDg
43
passed pursuant thereto, the directors have general and uncond1t1onal authonty, pursuant to
sect10n 551 of the Act, to exercise all powers of the Company to allot shares ID the Company
for a penod expmng on the fifth anmversary of the date of the adopt10n of this article 4 3
unless previously renewed, vaned or revoked by the Company ID general meeting The
maximum amount of shares ID the Company which may be allotted pursuant to the authonty
conferred by this article 4 3 1s 24,731,270 By the authonty conferred by this article 4 3, the
directors may, before the authonty expires, make an offer or agreement which would or might
reqmre shares of the Company to be allotted after 1t exp1res and may allot shares ID pursuance
of that offer or agreement The authonty conferred by this article 4 3 shall be without
prejudice to the directors' powers under sect10n 550 of the Act ID the event that the Company
has only one class of shares
44
Each allotment of shares ID the Company (other than an allotment of NCPSs as
penmtted by these Articles) shall be subject to the consent of LSEG for so long as LSEG and
any member of its Group hold ID aggregate a S1gmficant Interest ID the Company (LSEG's
dec1S1on on whether to grant such consent not to be unreasonably delayed)

Section 561 Disapphcation
45
Subject to this article 4 and to any resolution of the Company ID general meetIDg
passed pursuant thereto, the Board 1s empowered to allot eqmty secunt1es for cash pursuant to
the authonty conferred by article 4 3 as 1f section 561(1) of the Act did not apply to any such
allotment, provided that this power shall be hm1ted to
(a)

the allotment of shares for cash ID accordance with the prov1s10ns of article 4 6,
and/or

(b)

the allotment of shares for cash to any Future Venue Partner, and/or

(c)

the allotment of shares for cash to LSEG (1) pursuant to its subscnpt10n obhgat1on as
set out m clause 9 6 of the Implementation Agreement, or (u) for the purposes of
mamtammg sufficient regulatory capital, and/or

(d)

the allotment of eqmty secunlles for cash otherwise than pursuant to article 4 5(a),
4 5(b) or 4.5(c) m an aggregate amount of no more than 5 per cent of the Fully
Diluted Share Capital per calendar year and no more than 7 5 per cent of the Fully
Diluted Share Capital m any rolhng three-year penod

46
If the Company proposes to issue new shares for cash (New Shares) pursuant to
article 4 5(a), then subject to articles 4 7 and 6 7
(a)

the New Shares shall be offered for subscnpt10n m cash and on the same terms to
each shareholder pro rata to its Eqmty Proport10n (as nearly as may be) (as at the
record date reasonably determmed by the Board m its sole d1scret1on (the Record
Date)) (a shareholder's Pro Rata Share Entitlement) on the basis that each
shareholder may take up all or part or none of the New Shares offered to 1t,

(b)

each offer shall be made by notice from the Company (the Issue Notice) spec1fymg
(1) the number of New Shares to which the relevant shareholder 1s enlltled or, 1f the
Record Date 1s after the date of the Issue Notice, the basis on which that number of
New Shares to which the relevant shareholder 1s enlltled will be determmed, subject
to article 4 6(a) (n) the pnce per New Share (the Subscription Price) and (111) a l!me
(bemg not less than 14 days from the date of the Issue Notice or 1flater, 14 days from
the Record Date) withm which, 1f the offer 1s not accepted, 1t will be deemed to be
dechned,

(c)

each shareholder who accepts the offer by notice to the Company shall, m add1t1on,
state either (1) that 1t would accept, on the same terms, New Shares (spec1fymg a
maximum number) that are not accepted by other shareholders (Excess New Shares)
or (u) that 1t would not accept any Excess New Shares (and, 1f a shareholder who
accepts the offer fails to make a confirmallon m the terms of (1) or (u), 1t shall be
deemed to have made a confirmat10n m the terms of (u)) and shall (unless prescnbed
otherwise m the Issue Notice) accompany its acceptance with a remittance for the
maximum number of New Shares for which 1t 1s applymg,

(d)

on expiry of the acceptance penod referred tom article 4 6(b), New Shares shall be
allocated to each shareholder who has vahdly apphed for its Pro Rata Share
Entitlement (or less than its Pro Rata Share Entitlement),

(e)

Excess New Shares shall be allocated to shareholders who have stated pursuant to
article 4 6( c) that they are wI!hng to accept them m such marmer as the Board may
reasonably determine,

(f)

after expiry of the llme hm1t for acceptance of an offer made pursuant to article 4 6(b)
or upon receipt by the Company of an acceptance or refusal of every offer made by
the Company, the Board shall be enlltled to dispose of any New Shares offered to
shareholders and which have not been taken up m accordance with the prov1s10ns of
this article 4 6, such disposal to be m such manner and to such third party or parties as
the Board may thmk most beneficial to the Company, provided that the terms may
differ to those offered to the shareholders and that each such person 1s, or has agreed
with the Company to become, or 1s an associate of a person which 1s, or which has
agreed with the Company to become m connect10n with the transfer, an Ehg1ble
Inslltut10n or an Eligible Inslltullon Associate, and

(g)

where any allocat10n under this article 4 6 would result m a fract10nal allotment of
New Shares, the Board may, m its absolute discret10n, round up or down such
fractional allotments so that the offers and/or allotments of New Shares by the
Company are of whole numbers of shares (totallmg the number of shares for which
the shareholders have given approval for 1Ssue)

Anti-Dilution Protection
47
If the Company proposes to issue eqmty secuntles for cash or for non-cash
considerat10n, eqmty secuntles of the same class shall be offered for cash and otherwise on
the same or eqmvalent terms
(a)

(b)

to LSEG to the extent reqmred m order for LSEG and any member of its Group
(i)

if they hold a Controlling Interest m the Company immediately pnor to such
issue, to hold (or contmue to hold) m aggregate 50 per cent plus one
Ordmary Share of the Fully Diluted Share Capital immediately afier
complet10n of such issue, or

(11)

if they hold a Significant Interest (but less than a Controlling Interest) m the
Company immediately pnor to such issue, to hold (or contmue to hold) m
aggregate 40 per cent of the Fully Diluted Share Capital immediately afier
completion of such issue, or

(m)

if they hold a Matenal Interest (but less than a S1gmficant Interest) m the
Company immediately pnor to such 1Ssue, to hold (or contmue to hold) m
aggregate 20 per cent of the Fully Diluted Share Capital immediately afier
complellon of such issue, or

(iv)

if they hold a IO Per Cent Interest (but less than a Matenal Interest) m the
Company immediately pnor to such issue, to hold (or contmue to hold) m
aggregate IO per cent of the Fully Diluted Share Capital immediately afier
completion of such issue,

to User Shareholders to the extent reqmred m order for such User Shareholders
(i)

if they hold 25 per cent or more of the Fully Diluted Share Capital
immediately pnor to such issue, to hold (or contmue to hold) m aggregate 25
per cent plus one Ordmary Share of the Fully Diluted Share Capital
immediately afier complet10n of such issue, or

(u)

1f they hold less than 25 per cent but no less than 20 per cent of the Fully
Diluted Share Capital immediately pnor to such issue, to hold (or contmue to
hold) m aggregate 20 per cent plus one Ordmary Share of the Fully Diluted
Share Capital immediately afier complet10n of such issue

48
Any offer for subscnptlon to be made to User Shareholders pursuant to article 4 7(b)
shall be made on the basts of the procedure set out m article 4 5 (mutalls mutandzs), save that
references to "each shareholder" shall be construed as references to "each User Shareholder"
49
In the event of an issue of equity secunt1es for non-cash considerat10n, the cash
subscnpt10n pnce payable by LSEG and/or the relevant Eligible Inst1tut10ns (as applicable)
(the Cash Subscription Price) shall be determmed as at the date consent ts given to the issue
of the eqmty secunt1es by the Board (the Consent Date) The Cash Subscnpt10n Pnce shall

be such pnce as the Independent Dtrectors shall detennme wtthm 15 Busmess Days of the
Consent Date or, tf not so agreed or the Independent Directors otherwise consider ti
appropnate, shall be detennmed by an mternattonally recogmsed finn of mvestment bankers
(the Expert) appomted m accordance with article 4 10
4 I0

For this purpose

(a)

the Expert shall be such mternattonally recogmsed finn of mvestment bankers as the
Independent Dtrectors may agree or, 1f they fat! to agree wtthm I 0 Busmess Days of
the end of the penod referred to m article 4 9, the Expert shall be such mternattonally
recogmsed finn of mvestment bankers, mdependent of all of the shareholders, as the
Internattonal Centre for Expertise of the Intemat1onal Chamber of Commerce
nommates at the request of any Independent Director, and

(b)

the Expert shall act as an expert and not as an arbitrator and tis dec1S1on, whtch shall
be mcorporated m a certificate (a copy of which will be provided to each of the
shareholders and the Company), shall be final and bmdmg on the shareholders (and
the Company) and not subject to appeal to any court or tnbunal on any basts
whatsoever and the shareholders and the Company must comply wtth the Expert's
dec1s1on The Expert's fees and expenses shall be borne by the Company

4 11
The Expert shall exercise its mdependent professtonal judgment m amvmg at a
detennmatton of the Cash Subscnptton Pnce (which shall be expressed m the currency m
which the relevant equtty secunttes are denommated) by (1) assessmg the h1stoncal and
projected financial perfonnance of the Company (u) applymg generally accepted
methodolog1es for valumg the Company and (m) such other valuation methods as the Expert
shall consider to be appropnate m the circumstances
4 12
The Expert shall detennme the Cash Subscnpt10n Pnce of the New Shares on the
followmg basts
(a)

by valutng the Company on a gomg concern basts for an ann's length sale between a
wtllmg buyer and a wtllmg seller and on the assumptton that the subject matter of the
valuatton ts exposed to an open market,

(b)

by valumg the equtty secunttes by reference to the value of the Company as a whole
(and therefore without regard to the size of any relevant holdmg),

(c)

makmg no allowances for any expenses that might be mcurred m connection with the
issue of the equtty secunttes,

(d)

without regard to the size of the issue of the equtty secur1t1es,

(e)

on the assumptton that the share capital of the Company has been mcreased by the
issue of the equtty secunttes and that the proceeds of the issue of such shares have
been received, and

(t)

without any discount which would nonnally be taken mto account m the case of a
nghts issue by a hsted company,

provided that the Cash Subscnptton Pnce of the New Shares may reflect any other factors
suggested by a dtrector which the Expert reasonably beheves should be taken mto account

NCPSs
4 13
Unless a Loss Absorbency Event has occurred, the Company may not issue any
NCPSs
4 14
The Company may not cancel, redeem, purchase, reduce or otherwise acqmre any
Ordmary Shares, any Non-Votmg Shares or any Panty Secunty durmg a D1v1dend Stopper
Penod
For so long as there are any NCPSs m issue, the Company may not (a) issue any
4 15
further non-cumulauve preference shares which rank m pnonty to the NCPSs or (b) enter mto
any guarantee or other contractual support undertakmg m respect of any preference shares or
preferred secunl!es of a Subsidiary of the Company which rank m pnonty to the NCPSs as
regards d1v1dends or any other d1stnbut1ons declared, made or paid by the Company or nghts
on a wmdmg-up of the Company
Powers to Issue Different Classes of Share
4 16
Subject to the prov1s10ns of the Act and these Articles and without prejudice to any
nghts attached to ex1stmg shares, any share may be issued with such nghts or restnct10ns as
the Company may by ordmary resolution deterrnme or, subject to and m the absence of such
deterrnmat10n, as the Board shall deterrnme
Subject to the prov1s1ons of the Act and these Articles, and to the nghts attached to
4 17
ex1stmg shares, the Company may issue shares which are to be redeemed, or are liable to be
redeemed at the option of the Company or the holder, and the d1rectors may deterrnme the
terms, cond1t1ons and manner of redempt10n of any such shares
The prov1s1ons of section 284 of the Act (votes general rules) do not apply where the
4 18
nghts and restnct1ons attachmg to a class of shares make other prov1s10n for votmg The
prov1s10ns of sect10n 310 of the Act (persons entitled to receive notice of meetmgs) do not
apply where the nghts and restr1cl!ons attachmg to a class of shares make other prov1s1on for
entitlement to receive notice
Payment of Commissions on Subscription for Shares
4 19
The Company may exercise the powers of paymg comm1ss1ons conferred by the Act
Subject to the Act, any such comm1ss1on may be satisfied by the payment of cash or by the
allotment of fully-paid or partly-paid shares or partly m one way and partly m the other
Company not Bound by less tban Absolute Interests
Except as reqmred by law, no person shall be recognised by the Company as holdmg
4 20
any share upon any trust and (except as otherwise provided by these Articles or by law) the
Company shall not, save m respect of the Company Secretary, be bound by or recognise any
mterest many share except an absolute nght to the ent1rety of that share m the holder
Shareholding Cap
4 21
Subject to article 4 27, where a person directly or md1rectly holds or acqmres
Ordmary Shares which, when aggregated with those then or already held by 11 and those held
by its associates, represent a proportion of l 0 per cent or more of the Fully Diluted Share
Capital, the prov1S1ons of articles 4 24 and 4 25 shall apply

4 22
Where an Enumerated Entity directly or md!fectly holds or acqmres Ordmary Shares
which, when aggregated with those then or already held by 1t and those held by Its associates,
represent a proport10n of 5 per cent or more of the Fully Diluted Share Capital, the prov1s10ns
of articles 4 24 and 4 25 shall apply For the purposes of applymg this article, references to
"shareholder" or "person" m articles 4 23 to 4 29 (mclus1ve) shall be construed as references
to "Enumerated Entity"

4 23
If the Independent D!fectors consider 11 necessary or desirable m connect10n with any
applicable regulatory or legal requirements m order for the Company to carry on its busmess
as earned on by 1t for the time bemg, or mtended to be earned on m accordance with the then
current Busmess Plan, at the time the relevant legal or regulatory reqmrement (as the case
may be) 1s applicable, the Independent Dlfectors may impose a Shareholdmg Cap lower than
that specified m article 4 21 or article 4 22 (as appropnate) m respect of any shareholder or m
respect of shareholders generally
4 24
Where article 4 21 applies, article 4 22 applies or a person directly or md1rectly holds
or acqmres Ordmary Shares which, when aggregated with those then or already held by 11 and
those held by its associates, represent a proportion m excess of any lower Shareholdmg Cap
that the Company may have imposed pursuant to article 4 23, then the Company may, without
prejudice to the prov1s10ns of articles 17 I to 17 4
(a)

(on more than one occas10n)
(1)

serve a Compulsory Sale Notice on such person and/or such person's
associates pursuant to which the Company, actmg as agent, may offer the
Ordmary Shares held by such person and/or such person's associates for sale
and shall specify the Fair Market Value bemg the pnce at which the Ordmary
Shares are to be offered, or

(n)

subject to article 4 14 and provided that the Company has sufficient
D1stnbutable Profits, serve a notice of redempt10n on such person and/or such
person's associates pursuant to which the Company shall redeem the
Ordmary Shares held by such person and/or such person's associates at the
Imtial Value,

m each case to such extent as will, immediately followmg such sale or redempt10n (as
applicable), result m such person and such person's associates holdmg (directly or
md1rectly) as near as possible to, but no more than, the applicable Shareholdmg Cap,
and/or
(b)

direct that no payment shall be made by way of d1v1dend or other d1stnbut10n m
respect of those Ordmary Shares held by such person m excess of the applicable
Shareholdmg Cap

4 25
If the Company serves a Compulsory Sale Nollce pursuant to article 4 24(a)(1), the
person or persons upon whom such nollce 1s served shall be Compulsory Sellers, any
Ordmary Shares transferred pursuant to such Compulsory Sale Notice shall be Sale Shares,
and the prov1s10ns of articles 13 4 to 13 7 (mclus1ve) shall apply to such transfer mutat1s
mutand1s

4 26
If the Company serves a nollce of redempt10n pursuant to article 4 24(a)(n), each
person upon whom such notice 1s served shall be a Capped Shareholder and the prov1S1ons of
article 6 6 shall apply to such redempllon

4 27
The prov1S1ons of articles 4 21 to 4 26 shall not apply to LSEG for as long as 1t
(together with 1ts associates) holds a 10 Per Cent Interest m the Company
4 28
Each prov1S1on of these Articles relatmg to the allotment and issue or the transfer of
shares shall only apply, m relation to each shareholder, to the extent that such prov1s10n
would not result m such shareholder directly or mdtrectly holdmg or acqumng Ordmary
Shares which, when aggregated with those then or already held by 1t and those held by its
associates, would exceed any Shareholdmg Cap for the time bemg applicable to such
shareholder
If any dtrector or the Company Secretary becomes aware of a breach of the
4 29
Shareholdmg Cap by a shareholder, they shall notify the Group Head of Compliance and
Public Affatrs of such breach
5.

AL TERATION OF SHARE CAPITAL

New Shares Subject to these Articles
51
All shares created by mcrease of the Company's share capital, by consolidation,
d1V1s1on or sub-d1v1s10n of its share capital or the convers10n of stock mto paid-up shares shall
be
(a)

subject to all the prov1S1ons of these Articles, mcludmg without lim1tat10n prov1s10ns
relatmg to transfer and transm1ss10n, and

(b)

unclassified, unless otherwise provided by these Articles, by the resolution creatmg
the shares or by the terms of allotment of the shares

Fractions of Shares
52
Whenever as a result of a consolidation or d1v1s1on of shares any shareholders would
become entitled to fractions of a share, the dtrectors may, on behalf of those shareholders, sell
the shares representmg the fract10ns for the best pnce reasonably obtamable to any person
(mcludmg, subject to the prov1s10ns of the Act, the Company) and d1stnbute the net proceeds
of sale m due proport10n among those shareholders, and the dtrectors may authonse some
person to execute an instrument of transfer of the shares to, or m accordance with the
dtrect10ns of, the purchaser The transferee shall not be bound to see to the applicatlon of the
purchase money, nor shall his title to the shares be affected by any megulanty m or mvalid1ty
of the proceedmgs m reference to the sale
53
Where any holder's entitlement to part of the proceeds of sale amounts to less than a
m1mmum figure determmed by the dtrectors, that shareholder's part may be d1stnbuted to an
organ1sat10n which 1s a charity for the purposes of the law of England and Wales, Scotland or
Northern Ireland
6.

SHARE RIGHTS

Ordinary Shares
61
The Ordmary Shares conslltute a smgle class of shares and the holders thereof are
entitled pan passu to the nghts set out below

DIVldend
62
The Board may declare and pay d1v1dends on the Ordmary Shares m accordance with
article 32

Return of capital
63
On a return of capital on a wmdmg-up or otherwise, any surplus assets of the
Company available for d1stnbut10n shall, after paymg the holders of NCPSs m accordance
with article 6 24 and article 6 25, and the holder of the Non-Votmg Shares m accordance with
article 6 12, be d1stnbuted to each holder of an Ordmary Share pro rata to its shareholdmg

Redemptwn
64

If

(a)

a shareholder or its associate (other than LSEG or an associate of LSEG) 1s declared
or deemed to be a defaulter by the relevant member of the LCH Cleamet Group m
accordance with the Cleanng Rules, or a shareholder or its associate (other than
LSEG or an associate of LSEG) 1s given notice m wntmg by the Company that 1t has
been declared an mactlve member (each a Non-Clearing Member),

(b)

any of the details provided pursuant to article 12 6 m respect of a shareholder (a
Misrepresenting Member) are found to have been matenally mcorrect (as determmed
by the Board m its sole d1scret1on) as at the date they were provided,

(c)

a shareholder which 1s an Ehg1ble Institution or an Ehg1ble lnst1tut10n Associate
ceases to be an Ehg1ble lnstltut10n or an Ehg1ble lnstltut10n Associate (as applicable),
or such shareholder becomes a Dissolved Shareholder (each such shareholder bemg
an Inelig1b/e Person), or

(d)

m add1t10n, m the case of LSEG
(1)

LSEG or any member of LSEG's Group (other than the Company or any of
its subsidiary undertakmgs) (the Terminating Party) serves notice to
termmate the LSE Clearmg Agreement other than 1f such notice 1s served
pursuant to a termmat1on nght that has accrued to the Terrmnatmg Party m
accordance with the terms of, or due to a default by the Company m the
performance of 1ts obligations under, the LSE Cleanng Agreement, or

(u)

the Company serves notice to termmate the LSE Cleanng Agreement 1f such
notice 1s served pursuant to a termmat1on nght that has accrued to the
Company as a result of the hqmdal!on, adm1nistrat1on or msolvency of
London Stock Exchange pie or the terrmnat10n of London Stock Exchange
pie's Recognised lnveslinent Exchange status (or eqmvalent status) m
accordance with the terms of the LSE Cleanng Agreement, provided that, m
the latter case, this article 6 4(d)(u) shall cease to apply 1f London Stock
Exchange pie regams Recognised Investment Exchange status (or eqmvalent
status), or

(m)

m the c!fcumstances set out m clause 18 1 3 of the Relat1onsh1p Agreement,

each of a Non-Cleanng Member, Mtsrepresentmg Member, Ineligible Person and (only 1f the
circumstances set out above apply) LSEG bemg a Dormant Member, (each a Termination),
then the prov1S1ons of article 6 5 shall apply
Subject to article 4 14 and provided that the Company has sufficient D1stnbutable
65
Profits, and without prejudice to the Company's nght to direct a transfer of shares pursuant to
article 13, the Company has the nght, m its absolute d1scret10n, to serve a notice of
redemption on a Dormant Member pursuant to which the Company shall redeem the
outstandmg Ordmary Shares held by the Dormant Member at the lmtlal Value Notice may be
served to a Dissolved Shareholder by sendmg such notice of redemptton to the Dissolved
Shareholder's registered address unless, pnor to sendmg, the Company has been notified (by
a person whom the Board considers m its d1scret10n likely on a balance of probabthtles to
have due authonty) of a Dissolved Shareholder's representative, m which case notice shall be
served to the Dissolved Shareholder's representative
On the redemption date specified m any redemption nottce served pursuant to article
66
4 24(a)(n) or article 6 5, the Ordmary Shares specified m the notice of redemptton shall be
redeemed and cancelled, whether or not the Capped Shareholder, the Dormant Member or the
Dissolved Shareholder's representative, as applicable, delivers a share certificate or an
mdemmty m a form reasonably satisfactory to the Board m respect of a share certificate
which carmot be produced, unless a D1v1dend Stopper Penod 1s m operat10n m which case
such Ordmary Shares shall be redeemed on the first Busmess Day followmg the end of the
D1v1dend Stopper Penod The amount payable by the Company m respect of the Ordmary
Shares to be redeemed (the Ordinary Share redemption money) shall be paid to each Capped
Shareholder, Dormant Member or Dissolved Shareholder's representative, as applicable, m
respect of those Ordmary Shares which are to be redeemed upon production of the relevant
share certificate or satisfactory mdemmty at the office If a Capped Shareholder, Dormant
Member or Dissolved Shareholder's representative, as applicable, produces neither the share
certificate nor a satisfactory mdemmty, the Company may retam the Ordmary Share
redemptton money, which shall not bear mterest, until delivery of the certificate or a
satisfactory mdemmty The Company shall cancel each share certificate m respect of
redeemed Ordmary Shares
67
On the occurrence of a Termmat10n the Ordmary Shares held by a Dormant Member
(or any proxy therefor) will cease to confer on such shareholder any nghts to (a) vote,
whether exercisable at any general meetmg or at any separate meetmg of the class m quest10n
or otherwise, or (b) part1c1pate m any further issues of shares, or (c) m the case of a
M1srepresentmg Member, receive d1v1dends or any other d1stnbutlon declared, made or paid
on or after the date of Termmat10n, m each case otherwise attachmg to such Ordmary Shares
or pursuant to an offer made to the holder Until such Ordmary Shares are transferred m
accordance with article 13 and subject to articles 7 1 and 22 3, the votmg nghts otherwise
attachmg to such shares shall become Relevant Votes and will attach to the Special Share and
will be exercisable by the Company Secretary
Votes

68
Subject to articles 6 7 and 17 4, each holder of an Ordmary Share shall have one vote
for every share of which 1t 1s the holder
Transfer

69

Ordmary Shares may only be transferred m accordance with articles 12 and 13

Non-Votmg Shares

6 I0

The Non-Votmg Shares shall enlltle the holder thereof to the nghts set out below

D1v1dend
Subject to article 6 12, the holder of the Non-Votmg Shares shall not be entitled to
6 11
part1c1pate m the profits of the Company
Return of Capital

6 12
On a return of capital on a wmdmg up or otherwise of the Company, the holder of the
Non-Votmg Shares shall be enlltled to receive out of the assets of the Company available for
d1stnbut10n to its shareholders the sum of €2 after the holders of NCPSs have been paid m
accordance with articles 6 24 and 6 25 but shall not be enlltled to any further part1c1pallon m
the assets of the Company
Votmg

6 13
The holder of the Non-Votmg Shares shall have no nght to attend, speak or vote,
either m person or by proxy, at any general meetmg of the Company or any meetmg ofa class
of shareholders of the Company m respect of the Non-Votmg Shares, save where reqmred by
law
Transfer

6 14
The Non-Votmg Shares are to be held by the Company Secretary as designated by the
Board from lime to lime Upon the holder for the lime bemg of the Non-Votmg Shares
ceasmg to be the Company Secretary, he shall forthwith transfer the Non-Votmg Shares to his
successor or to such other person as the Company shall direct for a cons1derat10n of€ I per
Non-Votmg Share If the person ceasmg to be Company Secretary fails so to transfer the NonVotmg Shares, he shall be deemed to have appomted any director as his agent to execute a
transfer of the Non-Votmg Shares and to receive the cons1derat10n m trust for him The NonVotmg Shares may not be transferred otherwise than m accordance with this article 6 14
Further Rights

6 15
The Non-Votmg Shares shall carry the nght to receive nollce of every meetmg m
accordance with article 15 but shall not confer any nght to part1c1pate m any offer or
mv1tat10n by way of nghts or otherwise to subscnbe for add1t10nal shares m the Company or
confer any nght to part1c1pate m any issue of bonus shares
Non-Cumulative Callable Preference Shares
6 16

The NCPSs shall enlltle the holders thereof to the nghts set out below

D1v1dend
6 17
Pnor to redempllon and subject to article 6 19, the Board may m its absolute and sole
d1screllon resolve to declare and pay a non-cmnulat1ve preferred annual d1v1dend on each
NCPS at a fixed rate equal to 6 576 per cent per armum up to (but excludmg) 18 May 2017
and thereafter at a floatmg rate of 3 month EURIBOR plus 2 I 0 per cent per annmn on a
pnnc1pal amount equal to the NCPS Value (the NCPS Dividend) The Board shall not be
reqmred to give any person a reason for exerc1smg such d1scret10n

6 18
If a NCPS D1v1dend ts declared m accordance with article 6 17 it shall be payable
quarterly m arrears on each D1stnbut1on Payment Date, or if any such date ts not a Busmess
Day on the followmg Busmess Day, m each Fmancial Year m respect of the D1stnbut10n
Penod endmg on the day 1mmed1ately before those dates and on the NCPS Ftrst Call Date (if
any) (the NCPS Dividend Payment Date)
6 19
NCPS Dividends shall only be payable (a) followmg a Return to Profitab1hty and (b)
out of D1stnbutable Profits To the extent declared by the Board m accordance with
article 6 17 and provided that the Company has D1stnbutable Profits available on the relevant
date for payment, NCPS D1v1dends shall become a debt due to the holders ofNCPSs
6 20
If on any NCPS D1v1dend Payment Date, the Company does not have sufficient
D1stnbutable Profits to enable payment to be made of the mstalment of the NCPS D1v1dend
payable on that date and, if apphcable, of any payment payable on such date on any Panty
Secunty (Sufficient Distributable Reserves), then the Board shall resolve that none of the
said mstalments shall be paid
6 21
If, followmg a Return to Profitabthty, (a) a Capital Deficiency Event has occurred
and has contmued for a penod of six months or two NCPS D1v1dend Penods and has not been
cured or (b) the Consohdated Capital Ratio of the Company has not been restored to above
the mm1mum percentage reqmred by the Regulator accordmg to the Capital Regulations, then,
notwtthstandmg that the Company would have Sufficient D1stnbutable Reserves, no NCPS
D1v1dend or mstalment thereof shall be payable until a further Return to Profitab1hty
6 22
On any NCPS D1v1dend Payment Date with respect to which (a) a Capital
D1squahficat10n Event has occurred and is contmumg and (b) there ts no Capital Deficiency
Event subs1stmg, the Company shall be obhged to pay the mstalment of the NCPS Dividend
payable on that date and the Board may not exercise its d1scret10n to not declare a NCPS
D1v1dend
6 23
The NCPS D1v1dend shall be paid pan passu with the payment of any dividend or
other payment on a Panty Secunty of the Company and m pnonty to the payment of any
d1v1dend on any Ordmary Share

Return of Capital
6 24
On a Capital Return Event, the surplus assets of the Company remammg after the
payment or sattsfact10n of amounts due to creditors (whether secured or unsecured, and
mcludmg creditors under subordmated debt mstrurnents that are currently, or may m the
future, be ISsued or outstandmg, whether m France or elsewhere) (the Assets) shall be apphed
m paymg to each holder of a NCPS equally and rateably to the payment to each holder of a
Panty Secunty of the Company but m pnonty to any payment to the holders of any Ordmary
Shares or any Non-Votmg Shares the NCPS Value and such further amount as equals any
NCPS D1v1dends which have accrued for the penod from but excludmg the last D1stnbut10n
Payment Date to and mcludmg the date of the Capital Return Event (NCPS Liquidation

Payment)
6 25
In the event that the Company is unable to make the NCPS L1qmdat10n Payment to a
holder of a NCPS, the Assets shall be d1stnbuted to each holder of a NCPS and each holder of
a Panty Secunty of the Company pro rata to its shareholdmg
6 26
Except as provided m articles 6 27 and 6 28 regardmg redemplton, a NCPS does not
entitle the holder thereof to any further nghts of part1c1pat10n m the profits or assets of the
Company

Redemptwn
6 27
Subject to the pnor wntten approval of the Regulator, the Company may, m its sole
d1scret10n, elect to redeem all, but not some only, of the NCPSs on the NCPS Ftrst Call Date
or on any NCPS Dividend Payment Date thereafter at its Imtrnl Value together wllh any
accrued NCPS D1v1dend for the penod from, but excludmg, the last NCPS D1v1dend Payment
Date to, and mcludmg, the NCPS Ftrst Call Date (NCPS Redemption Value) by g1vmg the
holders ofNCPSs not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice m wntmg
NCPSs shall be cancelled, and the Redempt10n Money payable m respect thereof
6 28
shall be paid, m accordance with articles 6 31 to 6 35

Votes
6 29
The holders ofNCPSs are enlltled, m respect of any NCPSs held, to receive notice of
general meetmgs, class meetmgs or other meetmgs of the shareholders or any of them but are
not enlltled to attend or vote at general meetmgs or other meetmgs of the shareholders other
than m respect of a resolullon to wmd-up the Company or at a class meetmg of the holders of
NCPSs

Transfer
6 30

NCPSs may not be transferred

Redemptwn Payments
6 31
On the relevant Redempllon Date, the Redempuon Money shall be paid to each
holder of a NCPS m respect of those NCPSs which are to be redeemed agamst producllon of
the relevant share certificate (or an mdemmty m a form reasonably sallsfactory to the Board
m respect of a share certificate which cannot be produced) at the office If a holder of a NCPS
produces neither the share certificate nor a sallsfactory mdernn1ty, the Company may retam
the Redempt10n Money until delivery thereof
6 32
The Company shall cancel each share certificate m respect of a NCPS and shall issue
m respect of each NCPS a fresh certificate, without charge, m respect of the balance of any
NCPSs represented by the relevant certificate and remammg outstandmg
6 33
As from the relevant Redempt10n Date, the NCPS D1v1dend shall cease to accrue on
the NCPSs to be redeemed unless, despite presentat10n of the relevant share certificate or a
satisfactory mdernn1ty, the Company fails to pay the Redempt10n Money m respect of all the
NCPSs to be so redeemed In such ctrcumstances the NCPS D1v1dend shall contmue to accrue
or be deemed to contmue to accrue on the NCPSs m respect of which Redempt10n Money 1s
outstandmg unlll the Redempt10n Money 1s paid
If the Company does not have sufficient D1stnbutable Profits to redeem NCPSs on
6 34
the relevant Redempt10n Date, the Company may finance such redempllon

(a)

out of the proceeds of an tssue of Ordmary Shares m accordance with article 4 5,
provided that any Ordmary Shares issued for such purpose shall be issued on terms
that the proceeds thereof shall be used to finance the redempt10n m full, or

(b)

out of Perm1ss1ble Capital

6 35
To the extent the Company proposes to issue Ordmary Shares m accordance with
articles 6 31 to 6 34, NYSE Euronext and each of its associates holdmg Ordmary Shares shall,
and shall procure that each of their associates shall, take all necessary steps and undertake to
exercise all powers of control available to 1t (whether as a shareholder or by its
representatives appomted to the Board) to vote m favour of all resolut10ns necessary for such
issue of Ordmary Shares
7.

VARIATION OF CLASS RIGHTS

7I
The Ordmary Shares constitute a smgle class of shares and are not d1v1ded mto
classes, save m respect of any nght to appomt a director or directors m accordance with
article 18 or article 22 Save as otherwise provided m these Articles, any special nghts
attached to any shares m the capital of the Company may (unless otherwise provided by the
terms of issue of the shares of that class) be vaned or abrogated, either whilst the Company 1s
a gomg concern or dunng or m contemplation of a wmdmg up, with the consent m wntmg of
those entitled to attend and vote at general meetmgs of the Company representmg 75 per cent
of the votmg nghts attachmg to Ordmary Shares which may be exercised at such meetmgs, or
with the sanction of 75 per cent of those votes attachmg to Ordmary Shares cast on a special
resolution proposed at a separate general meetmg of all those entitled to attend and vote at
general meetmgs of the Company, but not otherwise (m each case the registered holders of
such shares to which Relevant Votes attach may exercise such Relevant Votes to the
exclusmn of the Company Secretary)
72
The special nghts attachmg to the NCPSs may only be vaned or abrogated, either
whilst the Company 1s a gomg concern or dunng or m contemplation of a wmdmg-up, m
accordance with this article 7 2 Any such variation or abrogation shall reqmre the consent m
wntmg of the holders of not less than two-thirds of the issued NCPSs
73
A resolution to vary any class nghts relatmg to the g1vmg, vanat1on, revocat10n or
renewal of any authority of the directors to allot shares or relatmg to a reduct10n of the
Company's capital may only be vaned or abrogated m accordance with the Act but not
otherwise
74
The provmons of these Articles relatmg to general meetmgs shall apply to every
meetmg of the holders of a class of shares except that the necessary quorum shall be one or
more persons holdmg or representmg by proxy at least ten per cent of the tssued shares of the
class m aggregate other than m respect of any separate general meetmg of the holders of
NCPSs The quorum at any such meetmg of the holders of NCPSs shall be a person or
persons havmg the nght to exercise the votes, holdmg or representmg by proxy at least onethird ofNCPSs m issue At any adjourned separate general meetmg of the holders ofNCPSs,
the quorum shall be such number of holders of NCPSs as 1s present m person or by proxy at
such meetmg
8.

COMPANY SECRETARY VOTING RIGHTS

8I
The Company Secretary shall exercise the Relevant Votes m accordance with the
recommendation of the Board
Subject to the provmons of the Act, but without prejudice to any mdemmty to which
82
the Company Secretary may otherwise be entitled, the Company Secretary 1s entitled to be
mdemmfied out of the assets of the Company against all costs, charges, losses and hab1ht1es
mcurred by him as a result of mvestlgatmg, defendmg or settlmg a claim made agamst him m
his Relevant Capacity by the Company or any of the shareholders unless and to the extent that

such cost, charge, loss or liability 1s due to the fraud, negligence or wilful default of the
Company Secretary
83
Subject to the prov1s1ons of the Act, but without prejudice to any mdemmty to which
the Company may otherwise be entitled, the Company 1s entitled to be mdemmfied by a
shareholder (other than the Company Secretary) agamst all costs, charges, losses and
liab1lit1es mcurred by the Company as a result of mvestlgatmg, defendmg or settling a claim
made agamst the Company by the Company Secretary m his Relevant Capacity as a result of
the Company Secretary mvest1gatmg or defendmg an unsuccessful claim made agamst the
Company Secretary m his Relevant Capacity by that shareholder unless and to the extent that
such cost, charge, loss or liability 1s due to the fraud, negligence or wilful default of the
Company
84
Save as otherwise expressly provided m these Articles, the Company Secretary shall
not be liable to the Company m respect of anythmg done or onutted to be done by him m his
Relevant Capacity under or m relation to any of the Articles otherwise than by reason of his
own fraud, negligence or wilful default
85

The Company Secretary

(a)

does not owe any duty to any shareholder,

(b)

shall be immune from smt, execut10n, attachment (whether maid of execut10n, before
judgment or otherwise) or other legal process brought agamst 1t by any shareholder,
and

(c)

shall not be liable to any shareholder,

m respect of anythmg done or omitted to be done by him m his Relevant Capacity otherwise
than by reason of his own fraud, negligence or wilful default
86
Without prejudice to article 8 5, no shareholder shall commence proceedmgs agamst
the Company Secretary m respect of any act10n or om1ss10n of the Company Secretary m his
Relevant Capacity which 1s m accordance with the Articles
87
Where the Company Secretary ceases to act for any reason, the Board shall use all
reasonable endeavours to find a replacement to act m his Relevant Capacity, provided that 1t
shall not be obliged to find a replacement where 1t would mcur unreasonable costs
88
For the avoidance of doubt, m exerc1S1ng the Relevant Votes the Company Secretary
m hts Relevant Capacity shall have no fiduciary duty to the Company or any shareholder, and
his only liab1lit1es and duties with respect to the exercise of Relevant Votes m his Relevant
Capacity shall be owed to the Company as expressly set out m an agreement with the
Company, 1f any, concemmg the exercise of the Relevant Votes
9.

SHARE CERTIFICATES

9I
Every shareholder, upon becommg the holder of any shares shall be entitled, without
payment, to one certificate for all the shares of each class held by 1t (and, upon transferrmg a
part of its holdmg of shares of any class, to a certificate for the balance of such holdmg) or
several certificates each for one or more of its shares, upon payment for every certificate after
the first of such reasonable sum as the directors may determme No certificate may be issued
m respect of shares of more than one class Every certificate shall have the seal affixed to 1t or
be otherwise executed m accordance with the Act and shall specify the number, class and

dtstingmshing numbers (tfany) of the shares to which 11 relates, the nominal value thereof and
the amount or respecttve amounts paid up thereon The Company shall not be bound to issue
more than one certificate for shares held jointly by several persons and dehvery of a
certificate for a share to one joint holder shall be a sufficient dehvery to all of them
92
If a share certificate 1s damaged, defaced, worn-out, lost, stolen or destroyed, 1t may
be renewed on such terms (1fany) as to evidence and indemmty and payment of the expenses
reasonably incurred by the Company in investigating evidence as the dtrectors may determine
but otherwise free of charge, and (in the case of damage, defacement or wearing-out) on
dehvery up of the old certificate
10.

LIEN

10 1 The Company shall have a first and paramount hen on every share (not being a fully
paid share) for all momes (whether presently payable or not) payable at a fixed time or called
in respect of that share The dtrectors may at any time (generally or in a particular case) waive
any hen or declare any share to be wholly or in part exempt from the prov1S1ons of this article
The Company's hen on a share shall extend to any amount (including without hm1tat10n
d1v1dends) payable in respect of 1t
10 2
The Company may sell in such manner as the dtrectors determme, any shares on
which the Company has a hen tf a sum in respect of which the hen exists ts presently payable
and ts not paid wtthm fourteen clear days after notice has been given to the holder of the share
or to the person entitled to 11 in consequence of the death or bankruptcy of the holder,
demanding payment and stating that tf the nottce ts not comphed with the shares may be sold
IO 3
To give effect to that sale, the dtrectors may authonse any person to execute an
mstrument of transfer in respect of the shares sold to, or in accordance wt th the d1rect1ons of,
the purchaser The purchaser shall not be bound to see to the apphcat1on of the purchase
money and the title of the transferee to the shares shall not be affected by any megulartty or
invahdtty in the proceedings in relatton to the sale
10 4
The net proceeds of the sale, after payment of the costs, shall be apphed in or towards
payment of so much of the sum for which the hen exists as 1s presently payable, and any
residue shall (upon surrender to the Company for cancellatton of the certificate for the shares
sold and subject to a hke hen for any momes not presently payable as existed upon the shares
before the sale) be paid to the person entitled to the shares at the date of the sale
I I.

CALLS ON SHARES, FORFEITURE AND SURRENDER

Calls on Shares
II I
Subject to the terms of allotment, the dtrectors may make calls upon the shareholders
m respect of any momes unpaid on thetr shares (whether in respect of nominal value or
premmm) and each shareholder shall (subject to receiving at least fourteen clear days' notice
spec1fymg when and where payment ts to be made) pay to the Company, as reqmred by the
notice, the amount called on tis shares A call may be reqmred to be paid by mstalments A
call may, before receipt by the Company of any sum due hereunder, be revoked in whole or m
part and payment of a call may be postponed in whole or part, in each case as the dtrectors
may determme A person upon whom a call ts made shall remam !table for calls made upon 11
notwtthstandmg the subsequent transfer of the shares m respect of which the call was made
11 2
A call shall be deemed to have been made at the lime when the resolution of the
directors authonsmg the call was passed

11 3
The joint holders of a share shall be jointly and severally hable to pay all calls in
respect of the share
11 4
If a call or any instalment of a call remains unpaid m whole or in part after 1t has
become due and payable, the person from whom 1t 1s due and payable shall pay mterest on the
amount unpaid from the day 1t became due and payable unlll 1t ts paid at the rate fixed by the
terms of allotment of the share or in the notice of the call or, 1f no rate 1s fixed, at the
appropnate rate (as defined by the Act) but the dtrectors may in respect of any ind1v1dual
shareholder wmve payment of the interest wholly or in part
11 5
An amount payable in respect of a share on allotment or at any fixed date, whether in
respect of nominal value or premmm or as an instalment of a call, shall be deemed to be a call
duly made and notified and payable on the date so fixed or in accordance with the terms of the
allotment If 1t 1s not paid when due, all the prov1s10ns of these Articles shall apply as 1f that
amount had become due and payable by virtue of a call duly made and notified
11 6
Subject to the terms of allotment, the dtrectors may make arrangements on the issue
of shares for a difference between the allottees or holders in the 31Ilounts and times of
payment of calls on thetr shares
11 7
The dtrectors may, 1fthey thmk fit, receive from any shareholder all or any part of the
momes uncalled and unpaid on any share held by 1t Such payment m advance of calls shall
extingmsh the hab1hty on the share in respect of which 1t 1s made to the extent of the
payment The Company may pay on all or any of the momes so advanced (unlll they would
but for such advance become presently payable) interest at such rate agreed between the
dtrectors and the shareholder not exceeding the appropnate rate (as defined by the Act)

Forfeiture and Surrender
11 8
If a call or any instalment of a call remains unpaid in whole or m part after 1t has
become due and payable, the directors may give to the person from whom 1t 1s due not less
than fourteen clear days' notice requmng payment of the amount unpaid, together with any
interest which may have accrued and any costs, charges and expenses incurred by the
Company by reason of such non-payment The nollce shall name the place where payment 1s
to be made and shall state that 1f the notice 1s not complied with the shares in respect of which
the call was made will be liable to be forfeited
11 9
If the notice 1s not complied with, any share in respect of which 1t was given may,
before the payment reqmred by the nollce has been made, be forfeited by a resolullon of the
directors and the forfeiture shall include all d1v1dends or other momes payable m respect of
the forfeited share and not paid before the forfeiture Where a share has been forfeited, nollce
of the forfeiture shall be sent to the person who was the holder of the share before the
forfeiture and an entry shall be made promptly in the register of members of the Company
opposite the entry of the share showing that nollce has been sent, that the share has been
forfeited and the date of forfeiture No forfeiture shall be invalidated by the om1ss10n or
neglect to send that notice or to make those entnes
11 I 0 Subject to the Act, a forfeited share shall be deemed to belong to the Company and
may be sold, re-allotted or otherwise disposed of on such terms and in such mmmer as the
directors determine either to the person who was before the forfeiture the holder or to any
other person, and at any time before a sale, re-allotment or other disposal, the forfeiture may
be cancelled on such terms as the dtrectors think fit Where for the purposes of its disposal a
forfeited share 1s to be transferred to any person, the directors may authonse any person to
execute an mstrument of transfer of the share to that person

11 11 A person any of whose shares have been forfeited shall cease to be a member m
respect of those shares and shall surrender to the Company for cancellat10n the certificate for
the shares forfeited but shall remam !table to the Company for all momes which at the date of
forfeiture were presently payable by him to the Company m respect of those shares with
mterest on that amount at the rate at which mterest was payable on those momes before the
forfeiture or, 1f no mterest was so payable, at the appropnate rate (as defined m the Act) from
the date of forfeiture uni!! payment but the dtrectors may waive payment wholly or m part or
enforce payment without any allowance for the value of the shares at the lime of forfeiture or
for any cons1derallon received on their disposal
11 12 A statutory declarat10n by a dtrector or the Company Secretary that a share has been
forfeited or surrendered on a specified date shall be conclusive evidence of the facts stated m
1t as agamst all persons claimmg to be entitled to the share and the declarat10n shall (subject
to the execullon of an mstrument of transfer 1f necessary) conslltute a good lltle to the share
and the person to whom the share 1s disposed of shall not be bound to see to the apphcat10n of
the cons1derat10n, 1f any, nor shall his title to the share be affected by any 1rregulanty m or
mvahd1ty of the proceedmgs m reference to the forfeiture, surrender, sale, re-allotment or
disposal of the share
12.

TRANSFER OF SHARES

Permitted Transfers
12 I
Ordmary Shares may be transferred by means of an mstrument of transfer m any
usual form or any other form approved by the dtrectors, which 1s executed by or on behalf of
the transferor
12 2
Unless 1t 1s (1) a transfer of Ordmary Shares permitted by these Articles or (u) a
transfer of Ordmary Shares made with the pnor wntten consent of all of the other holders of
Ordmary Shares, no holder of Ordmary Shares shall
(a)

sell, transfer or dispose of or otherwise deal with any nght or mterest many Ordmary
Shares (mcludmg the grant of any opllon over or m respect of any Ordmary Shares),
or

(b)

create or permit to exist any pledge, hen, mortgage, fixed or floatmg charge or other
encumbrance over any Ordmary Shares or any mterest m any Ordmary Shares, or

(c)

enter mto any agreement with any person who 1s not a shareholder m respect of the
votes attached to any Ordmary Shares

Transfers to Eligible Institutions Only
12 3
Subject to article 12 32, a holder of Ordmary Shares may only transfer Ordmary
Shares to a person which remams, or becomes m connect10n with such transfer, an Ehg1ble
Inslltutmn or an Ehg1ble Inst1tut10n Associate
Right of the Board to Approve Transferee
12 4
A proposed transfer of Ordmary Shares to LSEG and/or any member of its Group
pursuant to the prov1s1ons of articles 12 15 to 12 24 (mclus1ve) which would not result m the
level of LSEG's Group's shareholdmg exceedmg the LSEG lmllal Percentage shall not
reqmre Board approval In all other cases, provided that a transfer 1s m accordance with
article 12 3 and the Board considers that the transfer would be m the best mterests of the

Company, the Board can choose to approve the transfer of any Ordmary Share (mcludmg to
new Venue Shareholders) on the basts that articles 12 6 to 12 24 (mclus1ve) shall not apply to
such transfers If the Board does not determme the transfer to be m the best mterests of the
Company, articles 12 6 to 12 24 (mclus1ve) shall apply

LSEG Transfer Right
12 5
Provided that a transfer 1s m accordance with article 12 3 and for so long as LSEG
and any member of its Group hold a S1gmficant Interest m the Company, LSEG may transfer
Ordmary Shares to any Future Venue Partners and the prov1s1ons of articles 12 6 to 12 14
(mclus1ve) shall not apply to such transfer, provided that on complet10n of such transfer
LSEG contmues to hold a S1gmficant Interest m the Company

General Right of First Refusal
12 6
Subject to article 12 4, article 12 5, articles 12 15 to 12 24 (mclus1ve) and
article 12 32, before a shareholder (the Sellmg Shareholder) makes any transfer of the
Ordmary Shares held by 1t (the Seller's Shares) to an Ehg1ble Institution or an Ehg1ble
Institution Association under article 12 3, 1t shall first give a wntten notice (a Transfer
Notice) to the Contmumg Shareholders offenng to sell the Seller's Shares to each of the
Contmumg Shareholders m the same proport10n (as nearly as may be) as the number of
Ordmary Shares held by such Contmumg Shareholder bears to the total shareholdmgs of the
Contmumg Shareholders (a Contmumg Shareholder's Proportionate Entitlement) as at the
close of busmess on the date pnor to the date of the Transfer Notice A Transfer Notice shall
specify

(a)

the number of Seller's Shares which the Sellmg Shareholder 1s proposmg to sell and
each Contmumg Shareholder's Proport10nate Entitlement,

(b)

the proposed cons1derat1on for the relevant transfer, which must be cash and, 1f the
Selling Shareholder has proposed a pnce to the proposed Third-Party Purchaser (as
defined below), must be no more than such pnce (the Specified Price),

(c)

the 1dent1ty and address of the person(s) to whom the Sellmg Shareholder proposes to
sell the Seller's Shares (the Third-Party Purchaser) and details of the ex1stmg
holdmgs of the Third-Party Purchaser and 1ts associates, and

(d)

any other matenal terms of the proposed sale (the Offer Terms)

12 7
A Transfer Notice shall be mevocable (except as provided by article 12 13) and shall
constitute an offer by the Sellmg Shareholder to sell the Seller's Shares to the Contmumg
Shareholders at the Specified Pnce and on the Offer Tenns and shall be open for acceptance
by each of the Contmumg Shareholders for 20 Busmess Days from the date of despatch of the
Transfer Notice (the Acceptance Period)
12 8
Each of the Contmumg Shareholders may at any time before the expiry of the
Acceptance Penod give notice (a Buy Notice) to the Sellmg Shareholder of (1) its wish to
purchase all or any of the Seller's Shares offered to 11 by the Sellmg Shareholder at the
Specified Pnce and on the Offer Terms and (n) 1f applicable its wish to apply for Seller's
Shares m excess of its Proport10nate Entitlement by spec1fymg m its Buy Notice the number
of Seller's Shares m excess of its Proport10nate Entitlement which 111s prepared to purchase
A Buy Notice shall be mevocable unless agreed m wntmg by the Sellmg Shareholder and all
the Contmumg Shareholders g1vmg Buy Notices

12 9
If any of the Contmumg Shareholders fails to serve a Buy Notice before the expiry of
the Acceptance Penod, it shall be deemed to have declined the offer by the Selhng
Shareholder constituted by the Transfer Notice
12 I0

If any Contmumg Shareholder has applied for less than its Proport10nate Entitlement

(a)

the excess Seller's Shares (the ROFR Excess Shares) shall be allocated (as nearly as
may be) to each Contmumg Shareholder who has applied for Seller's Shares m excess
of its Proport10nate Entitlement m the same proportion as the number of Ordmary
Shares held by such Contmumg Shareholder bears to the total number of Ordmary
Shares held by the Contmumg Shareholders who have so apphed as at the close of
busmess on the Busmess Day pnor to the date of the Transfer Notice,

(b)

any allocation made under this article shall not, however, result m any Contmumg
Shareholder bemg allocated more Seller's Shares than it has applied for, any
remammg ROFR Excess Shares bemg apportioned by applymg this article without
takmg account of such Contmumg Shareholder, and

(c)

m cases where there are msuffic1ent ROFR Excess Shares to satisfy all apphcatlons,
the ROFR Excess Shares shall be allocated (as nearly as may be) to each Contmumg
Shareholder which has apphed for ROFR Excess Shares m the same proport10n as the
number of ROFR Excess Shares apphed for by such Contmumg Shareholder bears to
the total number of ROFR Excess Shares apphed for by all Contmumg Shareholders

12 11 A Buy Notice may be expressed to be subject to the fulfilment of such specified
cond1t1ons as may be requtred m order to enable the Seller's Shares to be acquired without
breach of any relevant law or regulation The nght may be reserved to waive all or any of
such conditions, whether m whole or m part, provided that a Buy Notice must provide that it
will cease to be effective if all relevant cond1t10ns are not fulfilled or waived w1thm a
specified penod not exceedmg 45 Busmess Days from the date of the Buy Notice (the
Condition Periotl)
12 12 If Buy Notices (for which all of the specified cond1t10ns are fulfilled or waived w1thm
the Cond1t10n Penod) are served by Contmumg Shareholders for all of the Seller's Shares, the
Sellmg Shareholder shall be bound to sell, and such Contmumg Shareholders shall be bound
to purchase, all of the Seller's Shares at the Specified Pnce and upon the Offer Terms and
otherwise m accordance with article 12 26 Completion shall take place w1thm I 0 Bus mess
Days from the end of the Cond1t10n Penod
12 13 If Buy Notices are served by Contmumg Shareholders for some or all of the Seller's
Shares but not all of the specified cond1t10ns m the Buy Notices are fulfilled or waived w1thm
the Cond1t10n Penod, or if Buy Notices (for which all specified cond1t10ns are fulfilled or
waived w1thm the Cond1t1on Penod) are served for less than all of the Seller's Shares, then
the Sellmg Shareholder shall be entitled at its d1screuon to
(a)

withdraw Its Transfer Notice and retain all the Seller's Shares, or

(b)

transfer all of the Seller's Shares to the Thtrd-Party Purchaser, or

(c)

transfer to the relevant Contmumg Shareholders those Seller's Shares m respect of
which the Contmumg Shareholders have served Buy Notices (the relevant conditions
of which have been fulfilled or waived), mcludmg m order to sausfy any apphcatlons
from such Contmumg Shareholders to acqutre Seller's Shares m excess of thetr
respective Proportionate Entitlements, and

(1)
(n)

retam the remammg Seller's Shares, or
transfer the rema1mng Seller's Shares to the Third-Party Purchaser,

each such transfer to be made at not less than the Specified Pnce and on the Offer Terms,
provided that the transfer is completed w1thm 60 Busmess Days of the end of the Cond1t10n
Penod The Selling Shareholder shall md1cate whether it has elected for option (a), (b) or (c)
by nollce to the Contmumg Shareholders and the Company w1thm 5 Busmess Days of the end
of the Cond11lon Penod If it does not so elect, it shall be deemed to have elected for opllon
(a) Complet10n of any transfer pursuant to this article 12 13 shall take place withm 15
Bus mess Days from the end of the Cond1t1on Penod
12 14 If the Sellmg Shareholder withdraws the Transfer Nollce under article 12 13, the
Sellmg Shareholder shall not be enlltled to serve a further Transfer Nollce m respect of the
Seller's Shares for a penod of6 months after the end of the Acceptance Penod, and then only
by servmg a further Transfer Notice and otherwise complymg with the Articles
Right of First Refusal for LSEG
12 15 Notw1thstandmg articles 12 6 to 12 14 (mclus1ve), but always subject to article 12 4,
before a Venue Shareholder that is a Selling Shareholder (a Selling Venue Shareholder)
issues a Transfer Nollce m accordance with article 12 6, for so long as LSEG and any member
of its Group hold m aggregate a S1gmficant Interest m the Company it shall first give a
Transfer Nollce to LSEG only offenng to sell the Seller's Shares to LSEG Such Transfer
Notice shall specify
(a)

the number of Seller's Shares which the Selling Venue Shareholder is proposmg to
sell,

(b)

the Specified Pnce,

(c)

the 1dent1ty and address of the Thlfd-Party Purchaser and details of the ex1stmg
holdmgs of the Thlfd-Party Purchaser and its associates, and

(d)

the Offer Terms

12 16 The Transfer Notice shall be mevocable (except as provided by article 12 19, 12 22
and article 12 23) and shall constitute an offer by the Sellmg Venue Shareholder to sell the
Seller's Shares to LSEG at the Specified Pnce and on the Offer Terms and shall be open for
acceptance by LSEG dunng the Acceptance Penod
12 17

On receipt of such Transfer Notice

(a)

if the aggregate shareholdmg of LSEG and its associates is at or greater than LSEG
lmtial Percentage, LSEG shall promptly nollfy the Sellmg Venue Shareholder and the
prov1s10ns of articles 12 15 to 12 24 shall not apply, and

(b)

if LSEG's shareholdmg is less than LSEG Jmt1al Percentage, LSEG shall only be
permitted to serve a Buy Nollce for such number of Seller's Shares as would not
result m LSEG's shareholdmg exceedmg the LSEG lmt1al Percentage on completion
of the transfer of such shares

12 18 LSEG may at any time before the expiry of the Acceptance Penod send a Buy Nollce
to the Selhng Venue Shareholder A Buy Notice shall be mevocable unless agreed m wntmg
by the Sellmg Venue Shareholder and LSEG
12 19 If LSEG fails to serve a Buy Nollce before the expiry of the Acceptance Penod, it
shall be deemed to have dechned the offer by the Sellmg Venue Shareholder constituted by
the Transfer Notice and the Selhng Venue Shareholder shall be enlltled at its d1scret10n either
to (1) withdraw its Transfer Nollce and retam all the Seller's Shares or (u) offer the Seller's
Shares to the Contmumg Shareholders pursuant to articles 12 6 to 12 14 (mclus1ve) The
Sellmg Venue Shareholder shall md1cate whether it has elected for opt10n (1) or opt10n (u) by
notice to LSEG and the Company w1thm 5 Busmess Days of the end of the Acceptance
Penod If it does not so elect, it shall be deemed to have elected for opllon (1)
12 20 A Buy Nollce may be expressed to be subject to the fulfilment of such specified
cond111ons as may reqmred m order to enable the Seller's Shares to be acquired without
breach of any relevant law or regulation The nght may be reserved to waive all or any of
such cond11lons, whether m whole or m part, provided that a Buy Notice must provide that it
will cease to be effective if all relevant cond111ons are not fulfilled or waived w1thm the
Cond1t10n Penod
12 21 If LSEG is entitled to serve a Buy Nollce pursuant to article 12 l 7(b) for all the
Seller's Shares and does so, and all of the specified cond111ons for such Buy Notice are
fulfilled or waived w1thm the Cond1t10n Penod, the Sellmg Venue Shareholder shall be bound
to sell, and LSEG shall be bound to purchase, all of the Seller's Shares at the Specified Pnce
and upon the Offer Tenns and otherwise m accordance with article 12 7 and 12 26
Completion shall take place w1thm l 0 Busmess Days from the end of the Cond1t10n Penod
12 22 If LSEG is entitled to serve a Buy Nollce pursuant to article I2 I 7(b) for some or all
the Seller's Shares and does so, but not all of the specified cond1t1ons m the Buy Notice are
fulfilled w1thm the Cond1t1on Penod, the Sellmg Venue Shareholder shall be entitled at its
d1scret10n either to (1) withdraw its Transfer Notice and retam all the Seller's Shares or (u)
offer the Seller's Shares to the Contmumg Shareholders pursuant to arttcles I2 6 to 12 14
(mclus1ve) The Seihng Venue Shareholder shall md1cate whether it has elected for option (1)
or opt10n (u) by notice to LSEG and the Company w1thm 5 Busmess Days of the end of the
Cond11lon Penod If it does not so elect, it shall be deemed to have elected for opt10n (1)
12 23 If LSEG is enlltled to serve a Buy Nollce pursuant to article 12 I 7(b) for some only
of the Seller's Shares and does so (or if LSEG is entitled to serve a Buy Notice pursuant to
article I2 I 7(b) for all the Seller's Shares but serves a Buy Notice m respect of some only),
and all of the specified conditions m the Buy Nollce are fulfilled or waived w1thm the
Cond1t1on Penod, the Selhng Venue Shareholder shall be enlltled at its d1scret1on either to (1)
withdraw its Transfer Nollce and retam all the Seller's Shares, (u) transfer to LSEG the
proport10n of the Seller's Shares m respect of which it has served a Buy Notice and offer the
remammg Seller's Shares to the Contmumg Shareholders pursuant to articles I2 6 to 12 14
(mclus1ve) The Selhng Venue Shareholder shall md1cate whether it has elected for optlon (1)
or opt10n (u) by nollce to LSEG and the Company w1thm 5 Busmess Days of the end of the
Acceptance Penod If it does not so elect, it shall be deemed to have elected for option (1) If
the Sellmg Venue Shareholder elects for option ( u) Complet10n of the transfer of the relevant
proport10n of Seller's Shares to LSEG shall take place withm IS Busmess Days from the end
of the Acceptance Penod
12 24 If the Sellmg Venue Shareholder withdraws the Transfer Notice under article I2 13,
the Sellmg Venue Shareholder shall not be enlltled to serve a further Transfer Nollce m

respect of the Seller's Shares for a penod of 6 months after the end of the Acceptance Penod,
and then only by serving a further Transfer Notice and otheiw1se complying with the Articles
Intra-Group Transfers and De-Grouping
12 25 Notwithstanding the prov1s10ns of articles 12 6 to 12 24 (inclusive), but subject
always to article 12 3, a shareholder (the Transferor) shall be entitled to transfer some or all
of its Seller's Shares to any member of its Group If the Transferor transfers 1ts Seller's
Shares to a member of its Group (the Transferee) pursuant to this article then

(a)

unless 1t 1s a transfer by LSEG and/or another member of its Group, the Transferor
shall procure that, 1f the Transferee proposes to cease to be a member of the
Transferor's Group, before the Transferee leaves the Transferor's Group the
Transferee shall transfer all of its interest in any Seller's Shares to the Transferor or
another member of the Transferor's Group, and

(b)

in the case of a transfer by LSEG and/or another member of its Group of all the
shares, or of a Controlling Interest in the Company, held by LSEG's Group at the
time of transfer then LSEG shall procure that the Transferee shall execute a deed of
adherence to the Relat10nsh1p Agreement in accordance with its terms and deliver 1t
to the Company pnor to and as a cond1t10n to the registration of such transfer, and

in both cases the prov1s10ns of article 12 26 (as specified in that article) shall apply to such
transfer
Terms of Transfer
12 26
terms

Any transfer of Seller's Shares pursuant to these Articles shall be on the following

(a)

the shares shall be sold free from all hens, charges and encumbrances and third party
nghts, together with all nghts of any nature attaching to them including all nghts to
any d1v1dends or other d1stnbut1ons declared, paid or made after the date of the
Transfer Notice,

(b)

the Seller shall deliver to the Continuing Shareholders or the Third-Party Purchaser
(as the case may be) (the Buyer) duly executed transfer(s) in favour of the Buyer(s),
or as 1t or they may direct, together with, 1f appropnate, cert1ficate(s) for the Seller's
Shares and a certified copy of any authonty under which such transfer(s) is/are
executed and, against delivery of the transfer(s), the Buyer(s) shall pay the
cons1derat10n for the Seller's Shares (m the Sale Proport10n) to the Seller m cleared
funds for value on the completion date,

(c)

the shareholders shall ensure (msofar as they are able) that the relevant transfer or
transfers (subject to their bemg duly stamped, stamp duty to be paid by the Buyer(s)
(in the Sale Proportion) are registered in the name(s) of the Buyer(s) or as 1t or they
may direct,

(d)

the Seller shall do all such other things and execute all other documents (including
any deed) as the Buyer(s) may reasonably request to give effect to the sale and
purchase of the Seller's Shares, and

(e)

this article (except for paragraph (b)) shall also apply to any intra-group transfer
referred to in article 12 25 so that references to the Buyer(s) shall be deemed to be

references to the Transferee and references to the Seller shall be deemed to be
references to the Transferor
12 27 If, after becommg bound to transfer shares pursuant to article 12 12, the Sellmg
Shareholder makes default m transfemng the Seller's Shares, the Company may receive the
purchase money and, m such event, the Sellmg Shareholder shall be deemed to have
appomted any one director or the Company Secretary as his agent to execute a transfer of the
Seller's Shares to the Contmumg Shareholder or Contmumg Shareholders and, upon
execut10n of such transfer, the Company shall hold the purchase money m trust for the Sellmg
Shareholder The receipt of the Company for the purchase money shall be a good discharge
to each Contmumg Shareholder and, after his name has been entered m the register of
shareholders of the Company, the vahd1ty of the proceedmgs shall not be quest10ned by any
person
12 28 Subject to any d1scret1on granted to the dtrectors pursuant to these Articles, the
dtrectors shall be bound to register a transfer of shares if
(a)

the transfer is m accordance with these Art1cles, and

(b)

a duly stamped (or exempt) form of transfer is lodged at the office, or at such other
place as the dtrectors may appomt, and is accompanied by the certificate for the
shares to which it relates and such other evidence as the dtrectors may reasonably
reqmre to show the nght of the transferor to make the transfers.

12 29 No fee may be charged for the reg1strat10n of any mstrument of transfer or other
document relatmg to or affectmg the tltle to any share
12 30

The Company may retam any mstrument of transfer which is registered

12 31 The transferor remams the holder of a share until the transferee's name is entered m
the register of members as holder of 11
Company Secretary
12 32 The Company Secretary shall, upon ceasmg to act as such, forthwith transfer the
Special Share held by him for a consideration of€! to his successor or to such other person as
dtrected by the Board If the Company Secretary fails so to transfer the Special Share, he shall
be deemed to have appomted any dtrector of the Company as his agent to execute a transfer of
the Special Share and to receive the cons1derat10n m trust for him The Special Share may not
be transferred otherwise than m accordance with this article 12 32
13.

COMPULSORY TRANSFER

13 I
Followmg the date of occurrence of a Termmat10n, the Company may (on more than
one occasion) serve a Compulsory Sale Notice requmng a Dormant Member to make the
Company its agent to offer some or all of its Sale Shares for sale
13 2
A Compulsory Sale Notice shall, m each case, specify the Fatr Market Value, bemg
the pnce at which the relevant Sale Shares are to be offered
13 3
The Company's Accountants are to be mstructed to certify the Fatr Market Value of
the Sale Shares and to notify the Board of thetr determmat10n w1thm 10 Busmess Days of the
m1trnl referral to them (the Sale Price)

13 4
The Sale Shares shall be offered to the other shareholders (Other Shareholders) as
follows
(a)

the Company shall serve a wntten notice on all Other Shareholders (a Sale Notice)
statmg the number of Sale Shares for sale and the Sale Pnce,

(b)

the Sale Shares are to be purchased for cash cons1derat1on payable immediately m full
at the time of transfer,

(c)

the Sale Shares are to be sold free from all hens, charges and encumbrances together
with all nghts attachmg to them,

(d)

the Sale Shares shall be first allocated such that each Other Shareholder who apphed
for Sale Shares shall receive that number of shares as bears the same proport10n to all
the Sale Shares as that shareholder's shareholdmg bears to the total shareholdmgs of
all Other Shareholders (Pro Raia Entitlement) but not so as to exceed the number of
Sale Shares for which that Other Shareholder apphed,

(e)

any Sale Share not allocated pursuant to article 13 4(d) (Compulsory Transfer Excess
Shares) shall be allocated to those Other Shareholders who apphed for a number of
Sale Shares greater than 1ts Pro Rata Entitlement but not so as to exceed the aggregate
number apphed for by each such Other Shareholder In cases where there are
msuffic1ent Compulsory Transfer Excess Shares to satisfy all apphcat10ns, the
Compulsory Transfer Excess Shares shall be allocated (as nearly as may be) to each
Other Shareholder that has apphed for Compulsory Transfer Excess Shares m the
same proportion as the number of Compulsory Transfer Excess Shares apphed for by
such Other Shareholder bears to the total number of Compulsory Transfer Excess
Shares apphed for by all Other Shareholders, and

( f)

l 0 Bus mess Days after the Company's despatch of the Sale Notice to the Other
Shareholders (the Sale Closing Date)
(1)

an Other Shareholder who has not made an apphcat10n m wntmg shall be
deemed to have declined 11, and

(u)

each apphcat10n to acqmre Sale Shares shall become mevocable and bmdmg
on the relevant Other Shareholder (Purchasing Other Shareholder)

13 5
If by the Sale Closmg Date not all the Sale Shares have been taken up, the Company
may w1thm 15 Busmess Days of the Sale Closmg Date mv1te apphcattons by notice m wntmg
(the Additional Sale Nonce) for the remammg Sale Shares from such person or persons as the
Company may determme, provided that each such person 1s, or has agreed with the Company
to become or ts an associate of a person which 1s, or which has agreed with the Company to
become m connect10n with the transfer, an Ehg1ble Inst1tut10n or an Ehg1ble Instttut10n
Associate (the Offerees) on the followmg terms
(a)

the pnce for each Sale Share 1s the Fair Market Value (the Additional Sale Price),

(b)

the Sale Shares are to be sold free from all hens, charges and encumbrances together
with all nghts attachmg to them,

(c)

10 Busmess Days after the Company's despatch of the Add1t10nal Sale Notice to the
Offerees (the Add11lonal Sale Closing Date)

(1)

the Add1t10nal Sale Nouce shall become mevocable,

(11)

an Offeree which has not responded m wntmg to the mv1tat1on set out m the
Add1t1onal Sale Notice, shall be deemed to have declmed 1t, and

(m)

each appllcat10n to acqmre Sale Shares under the Additional Sale Notice shall
become irrevocable

13 6
W1thm five Busmess Days of the Sale Closmg Date or, 1f the Company elects to
follow the procedure under article 13 5, the Add1t10nal Sale Closing Date

(a)

the Company shall notify the Compulsory Seller of the names and addresses of each
Purchasing Other Shareholder and/or Offeree (as the case may be) (each a Purchaser)
and the number of Sale Shares to be purchased by each,

(b)

the Company shall notify each Purchaser of the number of Sale Shares to be
purchased by them, and

(c)

the Company's notices under article 13 6(a) and 13 6(b) shall specify the Sale Pnce
or Add1t1onal Sale Pnce (as the case may be) and specify a date, between 5 and IO
Business Days later, on which the sale and purchase of the Sale Shares 1s to be
completed (the completion date)

13 7
On the completion date, each Purchaser which 1s committed to buy Sale Shares shall
pay to the Company the Sale Pnce and/or Add1t1onal Sale Pnce (as the case may be) in
respect thereof and, upon surrender of the share certificates (or an indemnity in a form
reasonably satisfactory to the Board in respect of a share certificate which cannot be
produced) and delivery of executed stock transfer forms m respect of the Sale Shares to the
Company, the Company shall pay the Compulsory Seller, on behalf of each Purchaser, the
Sale Pnce and/or Add1t1onal Sale Pnce (as the case may be) for the Sale Shares less any costs
or expenses reasonably incurred by the Company in connect10n with the sale to the extent
such Purchaser has put the Company m the reqms1te funds The Company shall cancel the
share certificate m respect of the Sale Shares and issue share certificates to each Purchaser
and shall register the transfer once the appropnate stamp duty has been paid by such
Purchaser The Company's receipt for the pnce shall be a good discharge to the Purchaser
The Company shall deduct the costs and expenses of such sale (includmg the costs and
expenses of the Company's Accountants) from the proceeds of sale If a Compulsory Seller
fails to deliver an executed stock transfer form and share certificate or a satisfactory
mdemmty, the d1Tectors may authonse any d1Tector to execute an mstrument of transfer m
respect of the Sale Shares on the Compulsory Seller's behalf as agent to each Purchaser to the
extent the relevant Purchaser has, by the complet10n date, put the Company in funds to pay
the certified pnce for the Sale Shares offered to him The Company shall hold the pnce m
trust for the Compulsory Seller without any obligation to pay mterest On delivery of the
executed stock transfer form and share certificate or a satisfactory mdemmty, the Compulsory
Seller shall be entitled to the agreed or certified pnce for the Sale Shares which shall not bear
mterest, less the costs and expenses of sale and pnce determinat10n ( mcludmg the costs and
expenses of the Company's Accountants)
14.

GENERAL MEETINGS

14 I
The d1Tectors may call general meetmgs and, on the reqmrement of members pursuant
to the Act, shall call a general meeting (1) w1thm 21 days from the date on which they become
subject to the reqmrement, and (11) to be held on a date not more than 28 days after the date of
the notice convemng the meetmg

14 2
If there are not sufficient d1rectors w1thm the Umted Kmgdom to call a general
meetmg, any d1rector or any member may call a general meetmg
15.

NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETINGS

15 1
A general meetmg (other than an adjourned meetmg) and an annual general meetmg
shall be called by at least 14 clear days' notice but may be called by shorter nollce 1f 1t 1s so
agreed by a majonty m number of the shareholders (which must mclude the Company
Secretary while the Company Secretary has the nght to cast votes representmg 10 per cent or
more of the Fully Diluted Share Capital) havmg a nght to attend and vote at the meetmg, who
together hold not less than 90 per cent of the Fully Diiuted Share Capital g1vmg that nght
15 2
The nollce of meetmg shall specify the llme, date and place of the meetmg and the
general nature of the busmess to be dealt with at the meetmg If the meetmg 1s convened to
consider a special resolut10n, the text of the resolution and the mtent1on to propose the
resolut10n as a special resolution shall also be specified The notice of meetmg shall also
specify, with reasonable prommence, the member's nghts to appomt one or more proxies
under sect10n 324 of the Act
15 3
Subject to the prov1s1ons of these Articles and to any restnct1ons imposed on any
shares, the nollce shall be given to all the shareholders and to the d1rectors and auditors
Where the notice of meetmg 1s published on a website m accordance with articles 35 1(c) and
35 3, 1t shall contmue to be published m the same place on that website from the date of the
not1ficallon given under article 35 3 until the conclus10n of the meetmg to which the notice
relates
15 4
The accidental om1ss1on to give nollce of a meetmg to, or the non-receipt of notice of
a meetmg by, any person entitled to receive nollce shall not mvalidate the proceedmgs at that
meetmg Where a nollce of meetmg published on a website m accordance with articles 35 1(c)
and 35 3 1s by accident published m different places on the website or published for part only
of the penod from the date of the not1ficat10n given under article 35 3 unlll the conclus10n of
the meetmg to which the notice relates, the proceedmgs at such meetmg are not thereby
mvalidated
16.

PROCEEDINGS AT SHAREHOLDERS' MEETINGS

Attendance and Speaking at General Meetings
16 1
A person 1s able to exercise the nght to speak at a general meetmg when that person
1s m a pos1t10n to communicate to all those attendmg the meetmg, dunng the meetmg, any
mformat1on or opm10ns which that person has on the busmess of the meetmg
16 2

A person 1s able to exercise the nght to vote at a general meetmg when

(a)

that person 1s able to vote, dunng the meetmg, on resolutions put to the vote at the
meetmg, and

(b)

that person's vote can be taken mto account m determmmg whether or not such
resolut10ns are passed at the same llme as the votes of all the other persons attendmg
the meetmg

16 3
The d1rectors may make whatever arrangements they consider appropnate to enable
those attendmg a general meetmg to exercise the1r nghts to speak or vote at 11

16 4
In detennmmg attendance at a general meetmg, 1t 1s 1mmatenal whether any two or
more members attendmg 1t are m the same place as each other
16 5
Two or more persons who are not m the same place as each other attend a general
meetmg 1f their circumstances are such that 1f they have (or were to have) nghts to speak and
vote at that meetmg, they are (or would be) able to exercise them
Quorum for General Meetings

16 6
Subject to any special nghts or restnct1ons as to votmg attached to any shares m the
capital of the Company by or m accordance with these Articles or their terms of issue, at
every meetmg
(a)

every shareholder present either personally, by a corporate representative or by proxy
and entitled to vote m accordance therewith, shall have m the case of an Ordmary
Share (other than the Non-Votmg Shares) one vote for every share held by him, and

(b)

the holder of the Special Share shall, m add1t10n to any votes under article 16 6(a),
have the nght to exercise the Relevant Votes

16 7
No busmess shall be transacted at any general meetmg unless a quorum 1s present at
the time when the meetmg proceeds to busmess The quorum at a general meetmg shall
consist of two shareholders (one of whom shall be LSEG for so long as 11 and any member of
its Group hold m aggregate a Matenal Interest m the Company), each of whom 1s present
throughout the meetmg m person or by proxy or, m the case of a corporat10n, by a duly
authonsed representative, and the Company Secretary while he has the nght to cast votes
representmg one per cent or more of the votes capable of bemg cast at such meetmg m
respect of any of the busmess to be transacted
16 8
If a quorum 1s not present withm one hour of the time at which the general meetmg
was due to start, the meetmg shall stand adjourned to the same day m the next week at the
same time and place, or to such day, time and place as the directors may detennme, at which
adjourned meetmg the quorum shall be two shareholders (one of whom shall be LSEG for so
long as 1t and any member of its Group hold m aggregate a S1gmficant Interest m the
Company), each of whom 1s present throughout the meetmg m person or by proxy or, m the
case of a corporat10n, by a duly authonsed representative, and the Company Secretary while
he has the nght to cast votes representmg one per cent or more of the votes capable of bemg
cast at such meetmg m respect of any of the busmess to be transacted
16 9
If a quorum 1s not present w1thm one hour of the time at which the adjourned meetmg
was due to start, the meetmg shall stand adjourned to the same time and place, or such time
and place as the directors may detennme, two Busmess Days later, at which adjourned
meetmg the quorum shall be two shareholders, each of whom shall be present throughout the
meetmg m person or by proxy or, m the case of a corporation, by a duly authonsed
representative, and a resolut10n shall be vahd 1f passed by a maJonty vote 1rrespect1ve of
which member or members vote m favour of its bemg passed (provided that this shall only be
the case for the purpose of the transaction of the bus mess specified m the agenda con tamed m
the notice of the meetmg)
Chairing General Meetings

16 10 The Cha1nnan or m his absence some other director nommated by the directors shall
preside as chainnan of the meetmg, but 1f neither the Chainnan nor such other director 1s
present w1thm 15 mmutes after the time appointed for holdmg the meetmg and w11lmg to act,

the directors present shall elect one of their number to be chairman of the meetmg and, 1f
there ts only one director present and w1llmg to act, he shall be chairman of the meetmg
16 11 If no director ts w1lhng to act as chairman of the meetmg, or 1f no director ts present
w1thm 15 nunutes after the ttme appomted for holdmg the meetmg, the shareholders and
proxies present and entitled to vote shall choose one of their number to be chairman of the
meetmg
Attendance and Speaking by Directors and Non-Shareholders

16 12 A director shall, notw1thstandmg that he ts not a shareholder, be entitled to attend and
speak at any general meetmg and at any separate meetmg of the holders of any class of shares
m the Company
16 13 The chairman of the meetmg may permit other persons who are not shareholders of
the Company or otherwise entitled to exercise the nghts of shareholders m relat10n to general
meetmgs to attend and speak at a general meetmg
Adjournment

16 14 The chairman of the meetmg may adjourn a general meetmg at which a quorum 1s
present 1f (a) the meetmg consents to an adjournment or (b) 11 appears to the chairman of the
meetmg that an adjournment ts necessary to protect the safety of any person attendmg the
meetmg or ensure that the busmess of the meetmg 1s conducted m an orderly marmer The
chairman of the meetmg must adjourn a general meetmg 1f directed to do so by the meetmg
No busmess shall be transacted at any adjourned meetmg other than busmess which might
properly have been transacted at the meetmg had the adjournment not taken place
16 15 When adjoummg a general meetmg, the chairman of the meetmg must either specify
the ttme and place to which 1t ts adjourned or state that 1t ts to contmue at a time and place to
be fixed by the directors, and have regard to any direct10ns as to the time and place of any
adjournment which have been given by the meetmg When a meetmg ts adjourned for 14
days or more or for an mdefimte penod, at least seven clear days' notice shall be given
spec1fymg the time and place of the adjourned meetmg Such nottce shall be given to the
same persons to whom notice of the Company's general meetmgs 1s reqmred to be given and
shall contam the same mformat10n which such nottce ts reqmred to contam Otherwise 1t
shall not be necessary to send any notice of an adjournment of or of the busmess to be dealt
with at an adjourned meetmg
Voting: General

16 16 All votes cast at any meetmg shall be on a poll A poll shall be taken m such manner
as the chairman of the meetmg directs, and he may appomt scrutmeers (who need not be
shareholders) and fix a place, date and ttme for declanng the result of the poll The result of
the poll shall be deemed to be the resolut10n of the meetmg at which the poll was demanded
16 I 7 In the case of equahty of votes, the chairman of the meetmg shall be entitled to a
castmg vote m addttton to any other vote he may have
16 18 A declaratton by the chairman of the meetmg that a resolut10n has been earned or
earned unammously, or by a particular majonty, or lost, or not earned by a particular majonty
and an entry to that effect m the mmutes of the meetmg shall be conclusive evidence of the
fact without proof of the number or proport10n of the votes recorded m favour of or agamst
the resolut10n

16 19 If, after the sendmg of notice of a general meetmg but before the meetmg 1s held, or
after the adjournment of a general meetmg but before the adjourned meetmg ts held (whether
or not notice of the adjourned meetmg 1s reqmred), the Board decides that 1t 1s 1mpract1cable
or unreasonable, for a reason beyond 1ts control, to hold the meetmg at the declared place
and/or time, 1t may change the place and/or postpone the time at which the meetmg ts to be
held If such a declS!on 1s made, the Board may then change the place and/or postpone the
ttme agam 1f 1t decides that 1t ts reasonable to do so In either case
(a)

no new nottce of the meetmg need be sent, but the Board shall, 1f practtcable, make
arrangements to nottfy shareholders of the change of place and/or postponement to
appear at the ongmaI place and/or at the ongmal ttme, and

(b)

a proxy appomtment m relatton to the meetmg may, 1f by means of a document m
hard copy form, be delivered to the office or, 1f m electromc form, be received at the
address (1f any) specified by or on behalf of the Company m accordance with
article 17 11 at any time not less than 48 hours before the postponed time appomted
for holdmg the meetmg

Class Meetings

16 20 The prov1s10ns of the articles relatmg to general meetmgs apply, with any necessary
mod1ficat10ns, to meetmgs of the holders of any class of shares
Written Resolutions

16 21 A resolut10n of the shareholders (or of a class of shareholders) may be passed as a
wntten resolut10n m accordance with the Act, provided that 1t 1s proposed m a form that
provides the shareholders (or the relevant class of shareholders) with the ability to cast thelf
votes agamst as well as m favour of such resolutton A proposed wntten resolutton lapses 1f 1t
1s not passed before the penod of 28 days begmnmg with the C!fculatton date
17.

VOTES OF SHAREHOLDERS

Voting Limits

17 l
Subject to article 17 5, where a person directly or md!fectly holds or acqmres
Ordmary Shares which, when aggregated with those then or already held by 11 and those held
by its associates, represents a 5 Per Cent Interest, except on a resolutton to vary the nghts
attachmg to those Ordmary Shares m accordance with article 7 I, the excess votes shall
become Relevant Votes and shall attach to the Special Share and shall only be exercisable by
the Company Secretary
17 2
In order for the Company to comply with any applicable regulatory or legal
reqmrements m order to carry on its busmess as earned on by it for the ttme bemg, or
mtended to be earned on m accordance with the then current Busmess Plan, at the time the
relevant legal or regulatory reqmrement (as the case may be) 1s applicable, the Independent
Dlfectors may impose a Votmg Cap lower than that specified m article 17 1 m respect of any
shareholder or m respect of shareholders generally
17 3
Subject to article 17 5, where a person dlfectly or mdlfectly holds or acqmres
Ordmary Shares which, when aggregated with those then or already held by 11 and those held
by its associates, results m the proportion of the votmg nghts of the Company held by them
bemg m excess of a Votmg Cap set by the Board pursuant to article 17 2, except on a
resolut10n to vary the nghts attachmg to those Ordmary Shares m accordance with article 7 l,

the excess votes shall become Relevant Votes and shall attach to the Special Share and shall
only be exercisable by the Company Secretary
17 4
The Company Secretary, as holder of the Special Share, shall, m add1t10n to any votes
under article 6 8, have the nght to exercise the Relevant Votes
17 5
The prov1s10ns of articles 17 I to 17 4 shall not apply to LSEG for as long as 1t holds
at least a 10 Per Cent Interest m the Company For the av01dance of doubt, articles 17 I to
17 4 shall not operate to restnct the exercise of a shareholder's nghts under articles 7 I or
22 3 or the prov1s10n m respect of the Company Secretary m articles 6 7 and 17 3

Joint Holders
17 6
In the case of jOmt holders of a share, only the vote of the semor holder who votes
(and any proxy duly authonsed by him) may be counted by the Company For the purposes of
this article, the semor holder of a share 1s detenmned by the order m which the names of the
Jomt holders appear m the register of shareholders

Restrictions on Voting
17 7
No shareholder shall (and m respect of Relevant Votes, the Company Secretary shall
not), unless the dlfectors otherwise determme, be entitled to vote at any general meetmg or at
any separate meetmg of the holders of any class of shares m the Company, either m person or
by proxy, m respect of any share (or any share from which a Relevant Vote is denved, where
apphcable) unless all mom es presently payable by the shareholder m respect of that share
have been paid

Errors and Disputes
17 8
No object10n shall be raised to the quahficat10n of any voter except at the meetmg or
adjourned meetmg at which the vote objected to is tendered, and every vote not disallowed at
the meetmg shall be vahd Any objection made m due time shall be referred to the chairman
of the meetmg whose dec1s10n shall be final and conclusive

Appointment of Proxies
17 9
A shareholder may appomt another person as his proxy to exercise all or any of his
nghts to attend and to speak and to vote (both on a show of hands and on a poll) on a
resolution or amendment of a resolution, or on other busmess ansmg, at a meeting or
meetings of the Company Proxy notices may specify how the proxy appomted under them is
to vote (or that the proxy 1s to abs tam from votmg) on one or more resolut10ns However,
unless the contrary 1s stated many instrument appomtmg a proxy, the appointment of a proxy
shall be deemed to confer authonty to exercise all such nghts as the proxy !hulks fit and to
constitute the appomtment of that person as a proxy m relat10n to any adjournment of the
meeting to which it relates as well as the meeting itself A shareholder may appomt more than
one proxy m relation to a meetmg, provided that each proxy is appomted to exercise the nghts
attached to a different share or shares held by the shareholder Deposit or dehvery of a form
of appomtment of a proxy does not preclude a shareholder from attendmg and votmg at the
meetmg or at any adjournment of it

Form and Content of Proxy Notices
17 10 Subject as set out herem, an mstrument appomtmg a proxy shall be m wntmg many
usual form or m any other form which the d!fectors may approve and shall be executed by or

on behalf of the appointer save that, subject to the Act, the directors may accept the
appointment of a proxy received in an electromc form at an address specified for such
purpose, on such terms and subject to such cond1t10ns as they consider fit A proxy may only
be validly appointed 1f the instrument appointing 1t 1s delivered to the Company in accordance
with these Articles and any instruct10ns conta10ed in the notice of the meeting to which 1t
relates The Company may require proxy nollces to be delivered in a particular form and may
specify different forms for different purposes The directors may reqmre the product10n of any
evidence which they consider necessary to determine the validity of any appomtment pursuant
to this article
Delivery of Proxy Notices
17 11 The form of appointment of a proxy and any authonty under which 1t 1s executed or a
copy of such authonty certified notanally or m some other way approved by the directors
shall
(a)

in the case of an mstrument in wntmg, be left at or sent by post to the office or such
other place within the Umted Kingdom as 1s specified m the notice conven10g the
meeting or 10 any form of appointment of proxy sent out by the Company in relat10n
to the meeting at least 48 hours before the llme for holding the meetmg or adjourned
meeting at which the person named in the form of appointment of proxy proposes to
vote,

(b)

10 the case of an appomtrnent of a proxy contained 10 an electromc form, be received
at any address to which the appointment of a proxy may be sent by electromc means
pursuant to a prov1s10n of the Act or to any other address specified by or on behalf of
the Company for the purpose of rece1vmg the app01ntment of a proxy in electromc
form
(1)

in the notice convemng the meetmg, or

(11)

in any form of appomtment of a proxy sent out by or on behalf of the
Company in relat10n to the meetmg, or

(111)

m any inv1tallon to appoint a proxy issued by the Company 10 relat10n to the
meeting, or

(1v)

on a website that 1s mamtained by or on behalf of the Company and 1denllfies
the Company,

at least 48 hours before the llme for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting (or any
postponed llme appointed for holding the meeting pursuant to article 16 19) at which
the person named in the form of appo10trnent of proxy proposes to vote,
and a form of appointment of proxy which 1s not deposited or delivered 10 accordance with
this article 1s invalid
Termination of Authority

17 12 An appointment under a proxy notice may be revoked by delivenng to the Company a
nollce in wnting given by or on behalf of the person by whom or on whose behalf the proxy
notice was given

17 13 The termmat10n of the authonty of a person to act as proxy or as the duly authonsed
representative of a shareholder which 1s a corporation, does not affect whether he counts m
dec1dmg whether there 1s a quorum at a meetmg, the vahd1ty of anythmg he does as chairman
of a meetmg or the vahdtty of a vote given by that person unless notice of the termmat10n was
received by the Company at the office or, m the case of a proxy, any other place specified for
dehvery or receipt of the form of appomtment of proxy or, where the appomtment of a proxy
was sent by electromc means, at the address at which the form of appomtment was received,
before the commencement of the relevant meetmg or adjourned meetmg

Corporate Representatives
17 14 In accordance with the Act, a corporation which 1s a shareholder may, by resolut10n
of its directors or other governmg body, authonse a person or persons to act as its
representative or representatives at any meetmg of the Company (a representative) Where
the corporat10n authonses only one person, he ts entitled to exercise the same powers on
behalf of the corporat10n as the corporation could exercise 1f 1t were an md1v1dual shareholder
of the Company Subject to the Act, where the corporation so authonses more than one
person, any one of them 1s entitled to exercise such powers A director, the Company
Secretary or other person authonsed for the purpose by the Company Secretary may reqmre a
representative to produce a certified copy of the resolution of authonsatlon before perm1ttmg
him to exercise his powers

No Obligation to Verify
17 15 The Company ts not obhged to venfy that a proxy or representative of a corporat10n
has acted m accordance with the terms of his appomtment and any failure to so act m
accordance with the terms of his appomtment shall not affect the vahd1ty of any proceedmgs
at a meetmg of the Company
18.

COMPOSITION OF BOARD

Number of Directors
18 l
Unless otherwise determmed by the Board or as mandated pursuant to Regulatory
Reqmrements, the number of directors 1s not subject to a maximum and the mm1mum number
IS

two

Initial Board Composition
18 2
On the date of adoption of these Articles, the Board shall compnse 17 directors as
follows, save for any changes reqmred from time to time as a result of regulatory reqmrement
mcludmg, to the extent reqmred, the appomtment of Customer Directors

(a)

the Chairman,

(b)

the CEO,

(c)

four Independent Directors,

(d)

five User Directors,

(e)

three directors nommated by LSEG, and

(t)

three Venue Directors (or, 1f there are msuffic1ent Venue Shareholders that LSEG
considers smtable to nommate a director, the number of further Independent Directors
nommated by LSEG reqmred to ensure that the total number of Venue Directors and
such further Independent Directors 1s three)

Future Board Appointments
18 3
Subject to articles 18 4 to 18 6 and article 22 1, future appomtments to the Board shall
be made by Board resolut10n m accordance with the prov1S1ons of the Relationship
Agreement and the terms of reference of the Nommatlon Committee For so long as LSEG
and any member of its Group hold m aggregate a S1gmficant Interest m the Company, any
amendment to the terms of reference of the Nommat10n Committee may only be made with
the consent of LSEG (such consent not to be U1Ireasonably withheld or delayed)
18 4
For so long as LSEG and any member of its Group hold m aggregate a S1gmficant
Interest m the Company, LSEG shall have the nght to

(a)

remove and replace the CEO, and

(b)

appomt and remove three further directors,

by g1vmg notice m wntmg to the Company and, m the case of any resolution proposed m
relat10n to such matters, LSEG shall be entitled to cast such number of votes as 1s necessary to
pass the resolut10n (1f LSEG casts its votes m favour of the resolut10n) or to defeat the
resolut10n (1f LSEG casts its votes agamst the resolut10n)
18 5
For so long as LSEG and any member of its Group hold m aggregate a Matenal
Interest m the Company, LSEG shall have the nght to appomt and remove two directors by
g1vmg notice m wntmg to the Company and, m the case of any resolution proposed m relat10n
to the appomtment and/or removal of either or both such directors, LSEG shall be entitled to
cast such number of votes as 1s necessary to pass the resolution (1f LSEG casts its votes m
favour of the resolution) or to defeat the resolution (1f LSEG casts its votes agamst the
resolution)
18 6
For so long as LSEG and any member of its Group hold m aggregate a 5 Per Cent
Interest m the Company, LSEG shall have the nght to appomt and remove one director by
g1vmg notice m wntmg to the Company and, m the case of any resolut10n proposed m relation
to the appomtment and/or removal of such director, LSEG shall be entitled to cast such
number of votes as 1s necessary to pass the resolut10n (1f LSEG casts its votes m favour of the
resolution) or to defeat the resolution (1f LSEG casts Its votes agamst the resolut10n)

Board Observers
18 7
The Board may, at any time, appomt such persons as 1t shall see fit to receive
mformatlon m relation to and attend, but not to speak or vote on matters at, meetmgs of the
Board (Observers) The appomtment of each Observer shall otherwise be on such tenns and
for such penod as the Board shall detenmne If the Board fails to agree on the appomtment of
an Observer or on the terms or duration of such appomtment, then the matters on which the
Board has failed to agree shall be referred to the Independent Directors for their determmat1on
by a maJonty vote

I 9.

POWERS OF DIRECTORS

Directors' General Authority
19 I
Subject to the Act aud these Articles, the bus1Dess of the Company shall be managed
by the directors who may exercise all the powers of the Company No alteralion of these
Articles and no such d1rect1on shall 1Dvalidate any pnor act of the directors which would have
been valid 1f that alteralion had not been made or that d1rect10n had not been given The
powers given by this article shall not be lnmted by any special power given to the directors by
these Articles and a meet1Dg of directors at which a quorum 1s present may exercise all
powers exercisable by the directors
19 2
The directors may, by power of attorney or otherwise, appo1Dt any person to be the
agent of the Company for such purposes and on such cond1t1ons as they detenn1De, 1Dclud1Dg
authonty for the agent to delegate all or any of his powers

Shareholders' Reserve Power
19 3
For so long as LSEG and any member of 1ts Group hold ID aggregate a S1gmficant
Interest ID the Company (or such lesser 1Dterest as LSEG and the Company may agree either
generally or ID relat10n to a specific LSEG Consent Matter), no LSEG Consent Matter shall be
approved by the directors or implemented except with the consent of LSEG
19 4
For so long as LSEG and any member of its Group hold m aggregate a S1gmficant
Interest ID the Company, and subject always to article 19 5, LSEG or any LSEG Director may
by notice m wnt1Dg to the Company (a Push Notice) reqmre that ID respect of any Push
Matter which

(a)

has already been resolved upon by the Board, or

(b)

LSEG has (by notice to the Chairman) proposed for dec1s10n by the Board and

ID

(1)

the Board has failed to consider, or

(n)

on which the Board has been unable to reach agreement,

each case w1th1D a reasonable penod of time,

shall (unless shareholder approval of such Push Matter would cause the Company to breach
any applicable laws or regulations) be considered by the shareholders ID accordance with
article 19 7
19 5
Neither LSEG nor any LSEG Director may serve a Push Notice unless LSEG or the
LSEG Director (as applicable) has consulted the Chairman and

(a)

the case of a matter fall1Dg under article 19 4(a) or 19 4(b)(n), requested that the
Board reconsider such matter and allowed a reasonable penod of time (be1Dg at least
three Bus1Dess Days after the date of such request) for the Board to reconsider that
ID

matter, or

(b)

ID the case of a matter fallmg under article 19 4(b)(1), requested that the Board
consider such matter and allowed a reasonable penod of lime (be1Dg at least I 0
Bus1Dess Days after the date of such request) for the Board to consider that matter

19 6
Where a matter 1s to be considered or reconsidered (as the case may be) under
article 19 5, the Board shall procure that the Company shall suspend or refram from takmg
any act10n m connect10n with such matter (save to the extent necessary or desirable to comply
with regulatory matters) unlll the expiry of any penod specified by LSEG or the LSEG
Director (as applicable) pursuant to article 19 5 and, followmg service of a Push Notice m
accordance with this article 19, until the relevant Push Matter has been decided upon by
shareholders under article 19 8

19 7
W1thm ten Busmess Days after the vahd service of a Push Notice under article 19 4,
the Board shall convene a general meetmg of the Company to consider the resolution m
respect of the relevant Push Matter (the Push Resolutwn)

19 8
If a Push Resolut10n proposed at a meetmg convened m accordance with article 19 7
1s approved by shareholders holdmg at least 60 per cent of the votes attachmg to the Ordmary
Shares cast on such Push Resolullon (and such shareholders mclude User Shareholders
holdmg at least 25 per cent of the votes attachmg to the Ordmary Shares cast by User
Shareholders on such Push Resolut10n), then such Push Resolut10n shall ovemde any dec1s1on
of the Board to the contrary and shall be bmdmg upon, and implemented as soon as
practicable by, the Board
20.

DELEGATION OF DIRECTORS' POWERS

Subject to the Articles, the d1rectors may delegate any of the1r powers to any comnuttee
cons1stmg of one or more d1rectors compnsed as descnbed m article 21 3 The directors may
also delegate to any nommated d1rector or any d1rector holdmg any other executive office
such of the1r powers as they consider desirable to be exercised by him Any such delegalion
may be made by such means (mcludmg by power of attorney), to such extent, m relat10n to
such matters or temtones, and subject to such cond1t10ns as the d1rectors may impose, may
authonse further delegat10n of the directors' powers by any person to whom they are
delegated, may be made either collaterally with or to the exclusion of 1ts own powers, and
may be revoked or altered Subject to any such cond1t1ons, the proceedmgs of a committee
with two or more d1rectors shall be governed by the prov1S1ons of these Articles regulatmg the
proceedmgs of directors so far as they are capable of applymg Where a prov1s1on of these
Articles refers to the exercise of a power, authonty or d1scret10n by the d1rectors and that
power, authonty or d1scret10n has been delegated by the directors to a committee, the
prov1S1on shall be construed as penmttmg the exercise of the power, authonty or d1scret10n by
the committee
21.

COMMITTEES

21 1
Subject to articles 21 3 and 21 4, committees to which the d1rectors delegate any of
their powers must follow procedures which are based as far as they are apphcable on those
prov1s10ns of the Articles which govern the takmg of dec1s1ons by directors
21 2
The day-to-day management of the Company shall be delegated by the Board to the
CEO m accordance with, but subject to the hm1tat1ons set out m, the Execulive Delegat10n
21 3

A comrruttee of d1rectors shall always consist of at least

(a)

for so long as LSEG and any member of its Group hold m aggregate at least a
S1gmficant Interest m the Company one LSEG D1rector or
(1)

m the case of the audit committee of the Company, followmg the
appomtment of one mdependent non-executive director by LSEG to the

Board pursuant to Clause I 0 10 of the Relat1onsh1p Agreement, other LSEG
Audit Representative,
(n)

m the case of the nommallon committee of the Company, one LSEG
NomCom Representative,

(m)

m the case of the remuneration committee of the Company, one mdependent
non-executive director of the board of directors of LSEG (who may be but 1s
not required to be an LSEG Director), or

(1v)

m the case of future committees estabhsbed by the Company, one LSEG
Representative,

(b)

one User Director, and

(c)

one Independent Director,

each of whom must be present throughout the meetmg
21 4
A comin1ttee of directors may meet and adjourn as 11 sees fit (except that the
prov1s10ns of articles 28 20 and 28 21 applicable to meetmgs of directors shall also apply to
meetmgs of any committee of directors)
22.

APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS

Euronext Director

22 1
NYSE Euronext 1s entitled by notice m wntmg to the Company to appomt and
remove one director (subject m each case to the pnor approval m wntmg by the Board, such
consent not to be unreasonably withheld) for so long as the NYSE Euronext Group holds
Ordmary Shares representmg at least five per cent of the Fully Diluted Share Capital (such
person shall be referred to as the Euronext Director)
22 2
On NYSE Euronext ceasmg to be entitled to appomt a Euronext Director pursuant to
article 22 1, the Euronext Director shall automatically cease to hold office from the date on
which NYSE Euronext ceased to be so entitled
22 3
While NYSE Euronext remams entitled to appomt a Euronext Director pursuant to
article 22 1, on any resolution to remove a Euronext Director or to amend article 22 1, any
member of the NYSE Euronext Group that holds shares shall, m respect of Ordmary Shares
held by 11, be deemed to have twenty times the aggregate number of votes capable of bemg
cast by all the other shareholders which are not NYSE Euronext Group members votmg on
the relevant resolution (mcludmg the Relevant Votes)
Replacement

22 4
The Board may from time to time notify NYSE Euronext that 11 requests that NYSE
Euronext considers, m good faith, whether 11 would be appropnate to replace a director
appomted by 11
23.

DISQUALIFICATION AND REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS

The office of a director shall be vacated

(a)

1f he ceases to be a director by virtue of any prov1s10n of the Act or he becomes
proh1b1ted by law from bemg a director,

(b)

1f he becomes bankrupt or makes any arrangement or compos11Ion with his creditors
generally,

(c)

1f he becomes, m the op1ruon of a maJonty his co-directors, mcapable by reason of
mental disorder of d1schargmg his dulies as director,

(d)

1f his conduct 1s likely to be prejudicial to the sound and prudent management of the
Company, m the opm1on of a maJonty of his co-directors and upon the
recommendation of the Nommatton Committee and, with regard to Directors
appomted by LSEG, with LSEG's consent (not to be unreasonably withheld or
delayed),

(e)

1f he resigns his office by nolice to the Company, and such res1gnat10n has taken
effect m accordance wtth its terms,

(f)

upon the occurrence of any circumstance requmng the office of that director to be
vacated that 1s provided for under his letter of appomttnent or service contract with
the Company, or

(g)

1f he shall for more than six consecutive months have been absent without perm1ss10n
of the directors from meetmgs of directors held dunng that penod and that person's
alternate director (1f any) has not attended m that person's place dunng that penod
and the directors resolve that that person's office be vacated

24.

ALTERNATE DIRECTORS

Appointment and Removal of Alternates
24 I

Any director (the appomtor) may appomt as an alternate any other director to

(a)

exercise that director's powers, and

(b)

carry out that director's respons1b1li1Ies,

m relatton to the taking of decmons by the directors in the absence of the altemate's
appointor A director may be appointed as an alternate director to represent more than one
director An alternate cannot appoint an alternate An Independent Director may only appoint
an alternate who qualifies as an Independent Director and any purported appointtnent of an
alternate who does not so qualify will be vmd ab mllw
24 2
Any appmnttnent or removal of an alternate must be effected by notice in writing to
the Company signed by the appointor, or m any other manner approved by the directors The
appomtment or removal shall take effect when received by the Company or on such later date
(1f any) specified in the notice The nolice must 1dent1fy the proposed alternate

Rights and Responsibilities of Alternate Directors
24 3
An alternate director has the same nghts, m relation to any directors' meeting or any
dec1s10n taken m accordance with articles 28 20 and 28 21, as the alternate's appointor
24 4

Except as the Articles specify otherwise, an alternate director

(a)

1s hable for his own acts and om1ss10ns,

(b)

1s subject to the same restnct1ons as his appomtor,

(c)

1s not deemed to be an agent of or for his appomtor, and

(d)

1s entitled to receive notice of all d1rectors' meetmgs and of all meetmgs of
comm1ttees of d1rectors of which his appomtor 1s a member

24 5
An alternate d1rector 1s not entitled to receive any remuneration from the Company
for servmg as an alternate d1rector except such part of the alternate's appomtor's
remunerat10n as the appomtor may d1rect by notice m wntmg to the Company
Termination of Alternate Directorship
24 6

An alternate d1rector' s appomllnent as an alternate termmates

(a)

m accordance with the terms of a notice m wntmg from the alternate's appomtor to
the Company revokmg the appomtment and spec1fymg when 11 1s to termmate,

(b)

on the occurrence of any event m relation to the alternate which, 1f 11 occurred m
relation to the alternate's appomtor, would result m the termmat10n of the appomtor's
appomllnent as a d1rector,

(c)

on the death of the alternate's appomtor,

(d)

when the alternate's appomtor's appomtment as a d1rector termmates, or

(e)

1f he resigns by notice m wntmg to the Company and such resignation has taken
effect m accordance with its terms

25.

REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS

25 l
The d1rectors may undertake any services for and on behalf of the Company as the
Board may decide The d1rectors are entitled to such remunerat10n as the Board may
determme m respect of the1r services for and on behalf of the Company as d1rectors and,
excludmg the Independent D1rectors, for any other service which they undertake for and on
behalf of the Company, provided that no Independent D1rector or Non-Executive D1rector
may receive performance-based compensation for service as a d1rector Subject to the
Articles, a d1rector's remuneration may take any form and mclude any arrangements m
connection with the payment of a pens10n, allowance or gratmty, or any death, sickness or
d1sab1hty benefits, to or m respect of that d1rector Unless the Board decides otherwise, the
d1rectors' remuneration shall be deemed to accrue from day to day
25 2
The d1rectors may provide benefits, whether by the payment of gratmtles or pensions
or by msurance or otherwise, for any d1rector who has held but no longer holds any executive
office or employment with the Company or with any body corporate which 1s or has been a
Subs1d1ary of the Company or a predecessor m busmess of the Company or of any such
Subs1d1ary, and for any member of that d1rector's family (mcludmg a spouse and a former
spouse) or any person who 1s or was dependent on him or her, and may (before or after
ceasmg to hold such office or employment) contnbute to any fund and pay premmms for the
purchase or prov1s1on of any such benefit

25 3
Without prejudice to the generality of this article 25, no director or former director
shall be accountable to the Company or the members for any benefit provided pursuant to this
article or article 40 The receipt of any such benefit shall not d1squahfy any person from
bemg or becommg a director of the Company
26.

DIRECTORS' APPOINTMENTS AND INTERESTS

Appomtment of Nominated Directors
Subject to the Act and the Articles, the directors may appomt one or more of their
26 l
number, excludmg the Independent Directors, to the office of nommated director or to any
other executive office under the Company, and may enter mto an agreement or arrangement
with any director for his employment by the Company or for the prov1S1on by him of any
services outside the scope of the ordmary duties of a director Any such appomtment,
agreement or arrangement may be made upon such terms as the directors determme and they
may remunerate any such director for his services as they thmk fit Any appomtment of a
director to an executive office shall determme 1f he ceases to be a director but without
prejudice to any claim for damages for breach of the contract of service between the director
and the Company
Authorisation under Section 175 of the Act
26 2
Subject to article 28 23, a director shall be authonsed for the purposes of section I 75
of the Act to act or contmue to act as a director of the Company notw1thstandmg that at the
time of his appomtlnent or subsequently he also
(a)

holds office as a director of, or holds any other office or employment with, any other
member of the LCH Clearnet Group or the LSEG Group,

(b)

holds office as a director of, or holds any other office or employment with, any other
Ehg1ble Inst1tut10n that 1s a shareholder,

(c)

part1c1pates m any scheme, transaction or arrangement for the benefit of the
employees or former employees of the Company or any other member of the
LCH Clearnet Group or the LSEG Group (mcludmg any pens10n fund or retirement,
death or d1sab1hty scheme or other bonus or employee benefit scheme), or

(d)

1s mterested directly or mdirectly m any shares or debentures (or any nghts to acqmre
shares or debentures) m the Company or any other member of the LCH Cleamet
Group or the LSEG Group,

and such authonsat10n shall also apply to a conf11ctmg mterest or duty that subsequently
anses as a result of such office, employment, part1c1pat1on or mterest
26 3
A maJonty of the Independent Directors (m consultation with the Group Head of
Compliance and Pubhc Affairs (or his or her des1gnee)) may, m accordance with article
28 23, authonse any matter proposed to them which would, 1f not so authonsed, mvolve a
breach of duty by a director under sect10n 175 of the Act, mcludmg, without hm1tat10n, any
matter which relates to a s1tuat1on m which a director has, or can have, an mterest which
conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the mterests of the Company (a conflict of interest)
26 4

Any authonsat10n under artJCle 26 3 will be effective only 1f

(a)

any requirement as to the quorum at the meetmg at which the matter 1s considered 1s
met without countmg the d1rector m quest10n or any other d1rector mterested m the
matter under cons1dera!Ion, and

(b)

the matter was agreed to without such d1rectors votmg or would have been agreed to
1f such d1rectors' votes had not been counted

26 5
The d1rectors may give any authonsatlon under article 26 3 upon such terms as they
thmk fit The d1rectors may vary or termmate any such authonsat10n at any time
26 6
For the purposes of this article 26, a conflict of mterest mcludes a conflict of mterest
and duty and a conflict of duties, and mterest mcludes both direct and md1rect mterests

Duty of Confidentiality to Another Person
26 7
A d1rector shall be under no duty to the Company with respect to any mformat10n
which he obtams or has obtamed otherwise than as a d1rector of the Company and m respect
of which he owes a duty of confiden!Iality to another person In particular the d1rector shall
not be m breach of the general duties he owes to the Company by virtue of sect10ns 17 l to
l 77 of the Act 1f he
(a)

fails to disclose any such mformat10n to the d1rectors or to any d1rector or other
officer or employee of the Company, or

(b)

does not use or apply any such mforma!Ion m performmg his du!Ies as a d1rector of
the Company

However, to the extent that his relat10nsh1p with that other person gives nse to a conflict of
mterest or possible conflict of mterest, this article 26 7 applies only 1f the existence of that
relat10nsh1p has been authonsed by article 26 2, by the d1rectors pursuant to article 26 3 or by
the members (subject, m any such case, to any terms upon which such authonsat1on was
given)

Consequences of Authorisation
26 8
Where the existence of a d1rector' s relat1onsh1p with another person has been
authonsed pursuant to article 26 2, authonsed by the Independent D1rectors pursuant to
article 26 3 or authonsed by the members and his relat1onsh1p with that person gives nse to a
conflict of mterest or possible conflict of mterest, the d1rector shall not be m breach of the
general du!Ies he owes to the Company by virtue of sections 171 to 177 of the Act 1f at his
d1scret10n or at the request or d1rect10n of the d1rectors or any comm1ttee of d1rectors he
(a)

absents himself from a meetmg of d1rectors or a committee of directors at which any
matter relatmg to the conflict of mterest or possible conflict of mterest will or may be
discussed or from the d1scuss1on of any such matter at a meetmg or otherwise, or

(b)

makes arrangements not to receive documents and mformat1on relatmg to any matter
which gives nse to the conflict of mterest or possible conflict of mterest sent or
supplied by or on behalf of the Company or for such documents and mforma!Ion to be
received and read by a profess10nal adviser on his behalf,

for so long as he reasonably believes such conflict of mterest (or possible conflict of mterest)
subsists

Without Prejudice to Equitable Principles or Rule of Law
26 9
The prov1s10ns of articles 26 7 and 26 8 are without prejudice to any eqmtable
pnnc1ple or rule of law which may excuse the director from
(a)

d1sclos1Dg 1Dformat1on, ID cJrcumstances where disclosure would otherwise be
reqmred under these Articles, or

(b)

attend1Dg meet1Dgs or d1scuss1ons or rece1v1Dg documents and 1Dformal!on as referred
to ID article 26 8, m circumstances where such attendance or rece1vmg such
documents and mformal!on would otherwise be reqmred under these Articles

Declaration of Interest
26 IO A dJrector who 1s ID any way, dJrectly or 1Dd1rectly, 1Dterested m a proposed
transact10n or arrangement with the Company shall declare the nature and extent of his
IDterest to the other directors before the Company enters mto the transac!Jon or arrangement
26 11 A d1rector who 1s ID any way, directly or IDdirectly, 1Dterested ID a transaction or
arrangement that has been entered 1Dto by the Company shall declare the nature and extent of
his mterest to the other d1rectors as soon as is reasonably practicable, unless the 1Dterest has
already been declared under article 26 I 0
26 12 Any declarat10n reqmred by article 26 IO may (but need not) be made at a meetmg of
the dJrectors or by no!Jce m wnhng ID accordance with section 184 of the Act or by general
nouce m accordance with sechon 185 of the Act Any declarat10n required by article 26 11
must be made at a meet1Dg of the dJrectors or by notice ID wntlDg ID accordance with sect10n
184 of the Act or by general notice ID accordance with section 185 of the Act
26 13 If a declarat10n made under article 26 lO or 26 l l proves to be, or becomes,
1Daccurate or 1Dcomplete, a further declarat10n must be made under article 26 l 0 or 26 11, as
appropnate
26 14

A dJrector need not declare an mterest under this article 26

(a)

if it carmot reasonably be regarded as hkely to give nse to a conflict of 1Dterest,

(b)

if, or to the extent that, the other dJrectors are already aware of it (and for this purpose
the other dJrectors are treated as aware of anyth1Dg of which they ought reasonably to
be aware),

(c)

if, or to the extent that, it concerns terms of his service contract that have been or are
to be considered by a meetmg of the directors or by a committee of the directors
appo1Dted for the purpose under these Articles, or

(d)

1f the director is not aware of his mterest or is not aware of the transac!Jon or
arrangement ID quest10n (and for this purpose a dJrector 1s treated as be1Dg aware of
matters of which he ought reasonably to be aware)

Director May Contract with the Company and Hold Other Offices etc.
26 15 Subject to the provlSlons of the Act and Regulatory Reqmrements and provided that
he has declared the na!Jire and extent of any dJrect or 1DdJrect 1Dterest of his ID accordance

with this article 26, where article 26 14 applies and no declarat10n of interest is reqmred, or
where article 26 2 applies, a director notwithstanding his office
(a)

may be a party to, or otherwise be interested in, any transact10n or arrangement with
the Company or in which the Company is directly or indirectly interested,

(b)

may act by hnnself or through his firm in a professional capacity for the Company
(otherwise than as auditor), and in any such case on sucb terms as to remunerat10n
and otherwise as the directors may decide, or

(c)

may be a director or other officer of, or employed by, or a party to any transaction or
arrangement with, or otherwise be mterested in, any body corporate
(1)

m which the Company is directly or mdirectly mterested as shareholder or
otherwise, or

(n)

which ts the parent undertaking of the Company or a subs1d1ary undertaking
of any parent undertaking of the Company, or

(1n)

with which he has such a relat1onsh1p at the request or direction of the
Company or any parent undertaking of the Company or a subs1d1ary
undertaking of any parent undertaking of the Company

Remuneration, Benefits etc.

26 16 A director shall not, by reason of his office, be accountable to the Company for any
remunerat10n or other benefit which he denves from any office or employment or from any
transact10n or arrangement or from any interest in any body corporate

(a)

the acceptance, entry into or existence of which has been authorised pursuant to
article 26 2, authonsed by the directors pursuant to article 26 3 or authorised by the
members (subject, in any such case, to any terms upon which such authorisation was
given), or

(b)

which he is permitted to hold or enter mto pursuant to article 26 15 or otherwise
pursuant to these Articles,

nor shall the receipt of any such remuneration or other benefit constitute a breach of his duty
under section 176 of the Act No transaction or arrangement authorised or permitted pursuant
to article 26 2, 26 3 or 26 15 or otherwise pursuant to these Articles shall be liable to be
avoided on the ground of any such interest or benefit
Provision of Information

26 17 Subject to the terms of the Relat1onsh1p Agreement, a director appointed by a
shareholder (or that director's alternate) may not provide to the shareholder(s) which
appointed him any informat10n which he or she receives by virtue of being a director without
the consent of a majonty of the Independent Directors The Independent Directors may give
such consent either generally or m relation to specific informat10n, and may vary or withdraw
such consent at then absolute discretion

27.

DIRECTORS' EXPENSES

The directors may be paid all travellmg, hotel and other expenses properly mcurred by them
m connection with their attendance at meetmgs of d1rectors or committees of d1rectors or
general meetmgs or separate meetmgs of the holders of any class of shares or of debentures of
the Company or otherwise m connect10n with the discharge of their duties Subject to the Act,
the d1rectors shall have the power to make arrangements to provide a d1rector with funds to
meet expenditure mcurred or to be mcurred by him for the purposes of the Company or for
the purpose of enablmg him properly to perform his duties as an officer of the Company or to
enable him to avmd mcumng any such expenditure
28.

PROCEEDINGS OF DIRECTORS

Directors' Meetings
28 1
Any dec1S1on by the d1rectors must be taken at a meetmg of the d1rectors m
accordance with these Articles or must be a dec1s10n taken m accordance wnh articles 28 20
and 28 21
28 2
Subject to the prov1S1ons of these Articles, the directors may regulate their
proceedmgs as they thmk fit
Calling a Directors' Meeting
28 3
A d1rector may, and the Company Secretary at the request of a director shall, call a
meetmg of the d1rectors Notice of any d1rectors' meetmg must md1cate its proposed date and
time, where 1t 1s to take place and, 1f 111s anticipated that d1rectors part1c1patmg m the meetmg
will not be m the same place, how 1t 1s proposed that they should commumcate with each
other dunng the meetmg
28 4
At least seven days' notice of a d1rectors' meetmg must be given m wntmg to each
d1rector unless all the d1rectors (or the1r alternates) or the Chairman m the case of urgency
approve a shorter notice penod No busmess, except that m respect of which notice has been
given shall be transacted at a meetmg unless all the d1rectors agree otherwise
28 5
Notice of a d1rectors' meetmg 1s deemed to be duly given to a d1rector 1f 1t 1s given to
him personally or by word of mouth or by electromc form to an address given by him to the
Company for that purpose or sent m wntmg to him at his last known address or other address
given by him to the Company for that purpose
28 6
A d1rector may waive the reqmrement that notice be given to him of a meetmg of
d1rectors or a committee of d1rectors, either prospectively or retrospectively Where such
notice 1s given after the meetmg has been held, that does not affect the vahd1ty of the meetmg,
or of any busmess conducted at 1t
28 7

Questions ansmg at a meetmg shall be decided by a majonty of votes

Participation in Directors' Meetings
28 8
Subject to the Articles, d1rectors may part1c1pate m a meetmg of d1rectors or a
committee of directors through the medmm of conference telephone or s1m1lar form of
commumcauons eqmpment 1f all persons part1c1patmg m the meetmg are able to hear and
speak to each other throughout the meetmg A person part1c1patmg m this way 1s deemed to
be present m person at the meetmg and 1s counted ma quorum and entitled to vote Subject to

the
the
the
the

Act, all business transacted m this way by the directors or a colTIIIllttee of directors 1s for
purposes of these Articles deemed to be validly and effectively transacted at a meetmg of
directors or of a committee of directors although no two directors are physically present at
same place

28 9
If all the directors part1c1patmg m a meetmg are not m the same place, they may
decide that the meetmg ts to be treated as takmg place wherever any of them ts, but m the
absence of such a dec1s10n the meetmg 1s deemed to take place where the largest group of
those part1c1pating 1s assembled or, tf there ts no such group, where the Chairman of the
meetmg ts at the start of the meetmg
Quorum for Directors' Meetings
28 10 At a directors' meetmg, unless a quorum ts part1c1patmg, no proposal 1s to be voted
on, except a proposal to call another meetmg
28 11
be

The quorum for directors' meetmgs shall (subject to articles 28 12, 28.13 and 28 14)

(a)

two LSEG Directors (for so long as LSEG and any member of its Group hold m
aggregate a Matenal Interest m the Company),

(b)

one Independent Director who may be but ts not requtred to be the Chamnan, and

(c)

one User Director,

each of whom must be present throughout the meetmg
28 12 Ifthere 1s no quorum w1thm 30 mmutes from the time at which the directors' meetmg
was due to start or tf dunng the meetmg such a quorum ceases to be present the meetmg shall
be adjourned to the same day m the next week at the same time and place at which the
quorum shall be any two directors (mcludmg at least one LSEG Director for so long as LSEG
and any member of 1ts Group hold m aggregate a S1gn1ficant Interest m the Company), each
of whom must be present throughout the meetmg
28 13 If there ts no quorum w1thm 30 mmutes from the time at which a directors' meetmg
adjourned pursuant to article 28 12 was due to start or 1f durmg the meetmg such a quorum
ceases to be present, the meetmg shall be adjourned and shall take place two Busmess Days
later at the same time and place at which the quorum shall be any two directors, each of
whom must be present throughout the meetmg
28 14 If and so long as the number of directors ts reduced below the quorum prescnbed by
article 28 11 (except m the circumstances provided for m article 28 12 and 28 13), the
directors must not take any dec1s10n other than a dec1s1on to call a general meetmg
Chairing of Directors' Meetings
28 15 The directors may by simple majonty appomt one of the Independent Directors to
chair their meetmgs as a non-executive chamnan The person so appomted for the time bemg
ts known as the Chairman Without prejudice to the shareholders' statutory nght to remove a
director from office by ordmary resolution, the directors may remove the Chamnan by a 75
per cent majonty of the Board (excludmg the Chamnan) at any time If the Chamnan ts not
part1c1patmg m a directors' meetmg within 15 minutes of the time at which 1t was due to start,
the part1c1pating directors may appomt another Independent Director to chair 1t

28 16 Unless he 1s unw1llmg to do so, the Chamnan shall preside at every meetmg of
directors at which he 1s present Where there 1s no director holdmg that office, or 1f the
dITector holdmg 1t 1s unw1llmg to preside or 1s not present w1thm 15 mmutes after the time
appomted for the meetmg, the part1c1pat1ng dITectors present may appomt another
Independent Director to chaIT the meetmg
Validity of resolut10ns
28 17 All acts done by a meetmg of directors, or of a committee of dITectors, or by a person
actmg as a dITector shall be vahd notw1thstandmg that 1t 1s afterwards discovered that there
was a defect m the appomtment of any director or that any of them were d1squahfied from
holdmg office, or had ceased to hold office, or were not entitled to vote on the matter m
quest10n
Voting at Directors' Meetings
28 18 Subject to the Articles, each director part1c1patmg m a decmon has one vote A
dITector who 1s also an alternate director has an add1t10nal vote on behalf of each appomtor
who 1s not part1c1patmg m takmg the dec1s1on and would have been entitled to vote 1f they
were part1c1patmg
No Casting Vote
28 19 If at a dITectors' meetmg the numbers of votes for and agamst a proposal are equal
(1gnonng any votes which m accordance with the Act are not to be counted), the Chairman or
other dITector chamng the meetmg does not have a castmg vote
Unanimous Decisions
28 20 A decmon of the dITectors 1s taken m accordance with articles 28 20 and 28 21 when
all ehg1ble directors md1cate to each other by any means that they share a common view on a
matter Such a dec1s10n may take the form of a resolut10n m wntmg, at least one copy of
which has been signed by each ehg1ble director or to which each ehg1ble dITector has
otherwise md1cated agreement m wntmg
28 21 References m article 28 20 to ehg1ble dITectors are to dITectors who would have been
entitled to vote on the matter had 1t been proposed as a resolut10n at a dITectors' meetmg but
excludmg any director whose vote 1s not to be counted m respect of the matter m quest10n A
dec1s10n may not be taken m accordance with article 28 20 1f the ehg1ble directors would not
have formed a quorum at such a meetmg
·
Directors' Power to Participate in Decision when Interested in Contract
28 22 Without prejudice to the dITector's disclosure obhgat10ns under the Act and these
Art1cles, but subject to articles 28 23 to 28 26 below, a dITector may
(a)

vote at any meetmg of the dITectors or of a comm1ttee of the dITectors on any
resolut10n and be counted m the quorum present at a meetmg m relation to any

resolution, or
(b)

part1c1pate m any decmon taken m accordance with articles 28 20 and 28 21,

concernmg a transact10n or arrangement with the Company or m which the Company 1s
mterested, or concernmg any other matter m which the Company 1s mterested,

notw1thstandmg that the director 1s mterested m that transact10n, arrangement or matter or has
m relation to 1t a duty which conflicts or may conflict with the mterests of the Company m
relation to 1t
28 23 If a maJonty of the Independent Directors (m consultat10n with the Group Head of
Compliance and Public Affairs (or his or her des1gnee)) determmes that there 1s a conflict of
mterest, pursuant to article 26, between
(a)

(1) a shareholder which has appomted a director or which 1s otherwise connected to a
director by virtue of his employment or directorship (a Conflicted Shareholder) and
(11) the Company or any other member of the LCH Clearnet Group due to litigation,
arb1trat1on or other dispute, or the proposed entry mto, matenal vanatlon or
termmat10n of a contract, between any member of the LCH Clearnet Group and the
Conflicted Shareholder, or

(b)

(1) a Conflicted Shareholder other than LSEG and (11) the Company or any other
member of the LCH Clearnet Group due to a matter other than those set out m article
28 23(a) above,

each of (a) and (b) bemg a Conflict Situation, then any director appomted by or otherwise
connected to such Conflicted Shareholder shall not be entitled to attend any meetmg (or part
of a meetmg) or part1C1pate m d1scuss1ons or vote on any resolut10n at meetmgs of the Board
or any committee of the Board which relate to the relevant Conflict Situation, or to receive
confidential information concerning such Conflict S1tuat10n, unless a maJonty of the
Independent Directors in consultat10n with the Group Head of Compliance and Public Affairs
(or his or her des1gnee) agree otherwise
28 24 If a rnaJonty of the Independent Directors detennmes in good faith that, in order to
prevent a breach of applicable compet1t10n law or regulat10n, a director appointed by or
otherwise connected to a particular shareholder (a Shareholder Director) should not have
access to compet1t1vely sens1t1ve informat10n concerning a particular Eligible Inst1tut10n, the
relevant Shareholder Director shall not be entitled to receive such competitively sensitive
informat10n, attend any part of a meeting at which such competitively sens1t1ve information 1s
discussed, or part1c1pate in d1scuss10ns or vote on any resolut10n at such a meeting (or a
meetmg of any committee of the Board) relating to such competitively sensitive information,
unless a maJonty of the Independent Directors agree otherwise
28 25 The Independent Directors may only make a detenninat10n pursuant to article 28 24
on a case by case basis and
(a)

on their own 1mt1at1ve, provided that they have consulted the Company's legal
advisers m advance of such determination and taken their views into account, or

(b)

1f, following receipt by the Company of a wntten request from any Eligible Institution
that a particular Shareholder Director should not have access to certain competitively
sensitive mformat10n concerning such Eligible Inst1tut10n, a maJonty of the
Independent Directors determine, having obtained such legal advice as they consider
appropnate, that such request 1s proportionate and not vexat10us

28 26 Any restnctlon imposed pursuant to articles 28 24 and 28 25 shall be without
prejudice to any nghts of consent under the LSEG Consent Matters and Minonty Protection
Reserved Matters, or any of LSEG' s nghts m connect10n with the Push Matters

29.

COMPANY SECRETARY

Subject to the Act, the Company Secretary shall be appomted by the directors for such term,
at such remuneration and upon such conditions as they thmk fit and any Company Secretary
so appomted may be removed by the directors
30.

MINUTES

30 1

The directors shall cause mmutes to be made m books kept for the purpose

(a)

of all app01ntments ofofficers made by the drrectors, and

(b)

of all proceedmgs of meetmgs of the Company, of the holders of any class of shares
m the Company, and of the directors, and of committees of d!fectors, mcludmg the
names of the directors present at each such meetmg

30 2 The Company shall also keep records compnsmg copies of all resolutions of
shareholders passed otherwise than at general meetmgs All such records must be kept for at
least 10 years (and ma readily accessible format for the frrst 2 years) from the date of the
meetmg or resolut10n or dec1s10n (as appropnate)
31.

THE SEAL

The seal shall only be used by the authonty of the directors or of a committee of dlfectors
authonsed by the d!fectors The directors may decide by what means and m what form the
seal 1s to be used The directors may determme who shall sign any mstrument to which the
seal 1s affixed, and unless otherwise so determmed every such mstrument shall be signed by at
least one authonsed person m the presence of a witness who attests the signature For the
purposes of this Article, an authonsed person 1s any director of the Company, the Company
Secretary or any person authonsed by the directors for the purpose of s1gnmg documents to
which the seal 1s apphed
32.

DIVIDENDS

Procedure for Declaring Dividends

32 1

Subject always to the Core Operatmg Pnnc1ples

(a)

the Company may by ordmary resolut10n declare d1v1dends, and the directors may
decide to pay mtenm d1v1dends, and

(b)

a d1v1dend must not be declared unless the directors have made a recommendat10n as
to its amount Such a d1v1dend must not exceed the amount recommended by the
directors

32 2
No dividend may be declared or paid unless 1t 1s m accordance with shareholders'
respective nghts
32 3
Unless the shareholders' resolut10n to declare or directors' dec1s10n to pay a d1v1dend,
or the terms on which shares are issued, specify otherwise, 1t must be paid by reference to
each shareholder's holdmg of shares on the date of the resolution or dec1s1on to declare or pay
It

32 4
Notw1thstandmg any other prov1s10n of these Articles, the Company or the d1rectors
may fix any date as the record date for any d1v1dend, d1stnbut10n, allotment or ISsue, which
may be on or at any llme before or after any date on which the d1v1dend, d1stnbut1on,
allollnent or issue 1s declared, paid or made
32 5
The Company will not declare or pay d1v1dends or any other d1stnbut1ons on any
Ordmary Shares or any Panty Secunty dunng a D1v1dend Stopper Penod
32 6
Once a d1v1dend has been declared on the Ordmary Shares, 11 shall become a debt and
the Company shall pay 11 promptly when due
Payment of Dividends and Other Distributions

32 7
Any d1v1dend or other momes payable on or m respect of a share may be paid by one
or more of the followmg means
(a)

telegraphic transfer or other electromc transm1ss1on to such bank account as the
d1stnbu1Ion rec1p1ent may m wntmg d1rect,

(b)

by sendmg a cheque made payable to the d1stnbut10n rec1p1ent by post to the
d1stnbut1on rec1p1ent at the d1stnbut10n rec1p1ent's registered address (1f the
d1stnbut10n rec1p1ent 1s a holder of the share) or (many other case) to such address as
the d1stnbut10n rec1p1ent may m wntmg d1rect, or

(c)

by any other means of payment agreed by the d1rectors and the d1stnbut10n rec1p1ent
mwntmg

32 8
In the Articles, the distribution rec1p1ent means, m respect of a share m respect of
which a d1v1dend or other sum 1s payable
(a)

the holder of the share, or

(b)

1f the share has two or more jOmt holders, whichever of them 1s nained first m the
register of members, or

(c)

such other person as the Board determmes (actmg reasonably) to be entitled thereto

Any jomt holder or other person jOmtly entitled to a share may give receipts for any d1v1dcnd
or other mom es payable m respect of the share
Interim Dividends

32 9
Subject to the prov1S1ons of the Act and these Art1cles, the d1rectors may pay mtenm
d1v1dends 1f 1t appears to them that they are jUsllfied by the D1stnbutable Profits of the
Company If the share capital 1s d1v1ded mto different classes, the d1rectors may pay mtenm
d1v1dends on shares which confer deferred or non-preferred nghts with regard to d1v1dend as
well as on shares which confer preferential nghts with regard to d1v1dend, but no mtenm
d1v1dend shall be paid on shares carrymg deferred or non-preferred nghts 1f, at the llme of
payment, any preferential d1v1dend 1s m arrears Subject to the prov1s10ns of these Articles,
the d1rectors may also pay at mtervals settled by them any d1v1dend payable at a fixed rate 1f 11
appears to them that the D1stnbutable Profits jUsllfy the payment Provided the d1rectors act m
good faith, they shall not mcur any hab1hty to the holders of shares confemng preferred nghts
for any loss they may suffer by the lawful payment of an mtenm d1v1dend on any shares
havmg deferred or non-preferred nghts

32 10 Except as otherwise provided by the nghts attached to shares, all d1v1dends shall be
declared and paid according to the amounts paid up on the shares on which the d1v1dend ts
paid All d1v1dends shall be apportioned and paid proport10nately to the amount paid up on the
shares dunng any portion or portions of the penod m respect of which the d1v1dend ts paid,
but, tf any share ts issued on terms prov1dmg that 1t shall rank for d1v1dend as from a
particular date, that share shall rank for d1v1dend accordingly
32 11 The directors may deduct from a d1v1dend or other amounts payable to a person ID
respect of a share any amounts due from him to the Company on account of a call or
otherwise m relation to a share
Non-Cash Distributions
32 12 Subject to the terms of issue of the share ID question, the Company may, by ord1Dary
resolutton upon the recommendatton of the directors, direct to pay or all part of a dividend or
other d1stnbut10n payable m respect of a share by transfemng non-cash assets of eqmvalent
value (1Dclud1Dg, without hm1tat10n, shares or other securities m any company) For the
purposes of paymg a non-cash d1stnbut1on, the directors may make whatever arrangements
they think fit, and where any difficulty anses m regard to such d1stnbut1on the directors may
settle the same and m particular may issue fractional certificates and fix the value for
d1stnbut1on of any assets and may determ1De that cash shall be paid to any shareholder upon
the foot1Dg of the value so fixed ID order to adjust the nghts of shareholders and may vest any
assets ID trustees
No Interest on Distributions
32 13 No d1v1dend or other momes payable ID respect of a share shall bear 1Dterest aga1Dst
the Company unless otherwise provided by the nghts attached to the share or the prov1S1ons
of another agreement between the holder of that share and the Company
Unclaimed Distributions
32 14 All d1v1dends or other momes which are payable ID respect of shares and unclaimed
after hav1Dg been declared or become payable may be 1Dvested or otherwise made use of by
the directors for the benefit of the Company until claimed
32 15 The payment of any such d1v1dend or other sum 1Dto a separate account does not
make the Company a trustee m respect of 1t
32 16 Any d1v1dend or other momes payable m respect of shares which has rema1Ded
unclaimed for 12 years from the date when 1t became due for payment, shall, tf the directors
so resolve, be forfeited and cease to remalD ow1Dg by the Company
Waiver of Distributions
32 17 D1stnbut10n rec1p1ents may waive their entitlement to a d1v1dend or other d1stnbut1on
payable m respect of a share by g1v1Dg the Company notice ID wnt1Dg to that effect, but tf
(a)

the share has more than one holder, or

(b)

more than one person ts entitled to the share, whether by reason of the death or
bankruptcy of one or more JOtnt holders, or otherwise,

the notice 1s not effective unless 1t 1s expressed to be given, and signed, by all the holders or
persons otherwise entitled to the share
33.

ACCOUNTS

33 1 No shareholder other than LSEG shall (as such) have any nght of mspectmg any
Company Books except as conferred by statute or authonsed by the directors or by ordmary
resolut10n of the Company
33 2
Any accounts, d!fectors' report or auditor's report requ!fed or perrmtted to be sent by
the Company pursuant to any statute to any person m accordance with this article are to be
treated as sent to him not less than 21 days before the date of the meetmg at which copies of
those documents are to be laid 1f, and only 1f
(a)

the documents are published on the website throughout a penod begmnmg at least 21
days before the date of the meeting and endmg with the conclus10n of the meetmg,
and

(b)

the notification given for the purposes of article 35 3 1s given not less than 21 days
before the date of the meetmg

33 3
Nothmg m article 33 2 shall mvalidate the proceedmgs of a meetmg where any
documents that are reqmred to be pubhshed as mentioned m article 33 2 are by accident
published m different places on the website or published for a part, but not all, of the penod
ment10ned m that article
34.

CAPJTALISATION OF PROFITS

34 l

The directors may with the authonty of an ordmary resolut10n of the Company

(a)

subiect as provided m this article, resolve to capitalise any und1v1ded profits of the
Company not reqmred for paymg any preferential d1v1dend (whether or not they are
available for d1stnbut10n) or any sum standmg to the credit of the Company's share
premmm account or capital redemption reserve,

(b)

appropnate the sum resolved to be capitalised to the shareholders who would have
been entitled to 1t 1f 1t were d1stnbuted by way of d1v1dend and m the same
proportions, and apply such sum on their behalf either m or towards paymg up the
amounts, 1fany, for the time bemg unpaid on any shares held by them respectively, or
m paymg up m full umssued shares or debentures of the Company of a nommal
amount equal to such sum, and allot the shares or debentures credited as fully paid to
those shareholders, or as they may direct, m those proport10ns, or partly m one way
and partly m the other, but the share premmm account, the capital redemption reserve,
and any profits which are not available for d1stnbut1on may, for the purposes of this
article, only be applied m paymg up umssued shares to be allotted to shareholders
credited as fully paid,

(c)

resolve that any shares so allotted to any shareholder m respect of a hold mg by him of
any partly-paid shares rank for d1v1dend, so long as such shares remam partly paid,
only to the extent that such partly-paid shares rank for d1v1dend,

(d)

make such prov1S1on by the issue of fract10nal certificates or by payment m cash or
otherwise as they deterrnme m the case of shares or debentures becommg
d1stnbutable under this article m fract10ns, and

(e)

authonse any person to enter on behalf of all the shareholders concerned mto an
agreement with the Company provtdmg for the allotment to them respectively,
credited as fully patd, of any shares or debentures to which they may be entitled upon
such cap1taltsat1on, any agreement made under such authonty bemg bmdmg on all
such shareholders

35.

NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS BY THE COMPANY

35 1 Other than a notice convenmg a meetmg of the Board, any notice, document or
mfonnatlon to be sent or supplted by the Company may be sent or supplted m accordance
with the Act (whether authonsed or reqmred to be sent or supplted by the Act or otherwise)
(a)

m wntmg,

(b)

m electromc form, or

(c)

by means of a website

35 2
A notice, document or mfonnat1on sent to a shareholder (or other person entitled to
receive notices under these Articles) by post at hts registered address or address for service
w1thm the Umted Kmgdom 1s deemed to be given to or received by the mtended rec1p1ent
(a)

24 hours after postmg, 1fpre-pa1d as first class, or

(b)

48 hours after postmg, 1fpre-pa1d as second class

A nol!ce, document or mfonnat10n sent to a shareholder (or other person entitled to receive
notice under these An1cles) by post to an address outside the Umted Kmgdom ts deemed to be
given 48 hours after postmg, 1f pre-patd as a1nna!l Proof that an envelope contammg the
notice was properly addressed, pre-paid and posted ts conclusive evidence that the notice was
given
35 3
A notice, document or mformatton sent or supplted m electromc form to an address
specified for the purpose by the shareholder 1s deemed to be given to or received by the
mtended rec1p1ent 24 hours after the time 1t was sent and m provmg service 11 1s sufficient to
prove that the commumcatton was properly addressed and sent In the event that a notice,
docmnent or mformat1on 1s sent or supplted to a person by bemg made available on a website,
the Company must notify the mtended rec1p1ent, m the manner agreed for the time bemg
between the shareholder and the Company, of the followmg mfonnatlon
(a)

the presence of the notice, document or mfonnat1on on the website,

(b)

the address of the website,

(c)

the place on the website where the notice, document or mformatlon may be accessed,
and

(d)

how to access the notice, document or mformat1on

A notice, document or mfonnatton sent or supplted by means of a website ts deemed to have
been given to or received by the mtended rec1p1ent when (1) the matenal was first made
available on the website or (11) tf later, when the rec1p1ent received (or, ts deemed to have
received under this article 35) not1ficat10n of the fact that the matenal was available on the
website

35 4
A notice, document or mformat1on not sent by post but dehvered by hand (which
mcludes dehvery by courter) to a registered address or address for service 1s deemed to be
given on the day 11 1s left A notice, document or mformatton served or delivered by the
Company by any other means authonsed m wntmg by the shareholder concerned 1s deemed
to be served when the Company has taken the act10n 11 has been authonsed to take for that
purpose
35 5
In the case of JOmt holders of a share, all notices, documents or mformat10n shall be
vahdly sent or supplied to all JOIIlt holders 1f sent or supplied to whichever of them 1s named
first m the register of members m respect of the JOmt holdmg Anythmg to be agreed or
specified m relatton to a notice, document or mformat1on to be sent or supplied to JOIIlt
holders, may be agreed or specified by the JOmt holder who 1s named first m the register of
members m respect of the JO mt holdmg
35 6
A shareholder present, either m person or by proxy, at any meetmg of the Company
or of the holders of any class of shares m the Company shall be deemed to have received
notice of the meetmg, and, where reqms1te, of the purposes for which 1t was called
35 7
Every person who becomes entitled to any share shall be bound by any notice m
respect of that share which, before his name 1s entered m the register of shareholders, has
been given to the person from whom he denves his title
35 8
A notice, document or mformat10n may be given by the Company to the persons
entitled to a share m consequence of the death or bankruptcy of a shareholder by sendmg or
dellvenng 1t, m any manner authonsed by these Articles for the g1vmg of a notice, document
or mformat10n to a shareholder, addressed to them by name, or by the title of representatives
of the deceased, or trustee of the bankrupt or by any like descnptlon, at the address, 1f any,
supplied for that purpose by the persons cla1mmg to be so entitled Unttl such an address has
been supplied, a notice may be given m any marmer m which 11 might have been given 1f the
death or bankruptcy had not occurred
35 9
Subject to the Articles, any notice or document to be sent or supplied to a director m
connection with the takmg of dec1S1ons by directors may also be sent or supplied by the
means by which that dtrector has asked to be sent or supplied with such notices or documents
for the time bemg
36.

DESTRUCTION OF DOCUMENTS

36 1

The Company 1s entitled to destroy

(a)

all mstrumcnts of transfer of shares which have been registered, and all other
documents on the basis of which any entnes are made m the register of members,
from six years after the date of reg1strat10n,

(b)

all d1v1dend mandates, vanat10ns or cancellations of d1v1dend mandates, and
not1ficat1ons of change of address, from two years after they have been recorded,

(c)

all share certificates which have been cancelled from one year after the date of the
cancellation,

(d)

all paid d1v1dend warrants and cheques from one year after the date of actual
payment, and

(e)

all proxy nollces from one year after the end of the meetmg to which the proxy nollce
relates

36 2
If the Company destroys a document m good faith, m accordance with the Articles,
and without nollce of any claim to which that document may be relevant, 1t 1s conclusively
presumed m favour of the Company that
(a)

entnes m the register purportmg to have been made on the basis of an mstrument of
transfer or other document so destroyed were duly and properly made,

(b)

any mstrument of transfer so destroyed was a vahd and effecllve mstrument duly and
properly registered,

(c)

any share certificate so destroyed was a vahd and effective certificate duly and
properly cancelled, and

(d)

any other document so destroyed was a vahd and effecllve document m accordance
with its recorded particulars m the books or records of the Company

This article does not impose on the Company any hab1hty which 1t would not
36 3
otherwise have 1f 11 destroys any document before the lime at which this artICle permits 11 to
do so
36 4
In this article, references to the destrucllon of any document mclude a reference to its
bemg disposed of m any manner
37.

CERTIFICATION

37 l
Any director or the Company Secretary or any person appomted by the dITectors for
the purpose shall have power to authenticate and certify as true copies of and extracts from
(a)

any document compnsmg or affectmg the const1tut1on of the Company, whether m
hard copy form or m electronic form,

(b)

any resolullon passed by the Company, the holders of any class of shares m the
capital of the Company, the dITectors or any committee of the dITectors, whether m
hard copy form or m electronic form, and

(c)

any book, record and document relatmg to the busmess of the Company, whether m
hard copy form or in electronic form (mcludmg, without hm1tat1on, the accounts)

37 2
If certified in this way, a document purporting to be a copy of a resolullon, or the
minutes of or an extract from the minutes of a meetmg of the Company, the holders of any
class of shares m the capital of the Company, the directors or a committee of the dITectors,
whether m hard copy form or m electronic form, shall be conclusive evidence m favour of all
persons dealmg with the Company m reliance on 11 or them that the resolut10n was duly
passed or that the mmutes are, or the extract from the mmutes 1s, a true and accurate record of
proceedmgs at a duly constituted meetmg
38.

PROVISION FOR EMPLOYEES ON CESSATION OF BUSINESS

The dITectors may make prov1s1on for the benefit of any persons employed or formerly
employed by the Company or any of its subs1d1anes, other than a director or former dITector
or shadow dITector, m connect10n with the cessat10n or the transfer of the whole or part of the

undertakmg of the Company or any Subs1d1ary Any such provmon shall be made by a
resolution of the dtrectors m accordance with secllon 247 of the Act
39.

WINDING UP

If the Company is wound up, the hqmdator may, with the sancllon of a special resolutmn of
the Company and any other sanctmn reqmred by the Act, d1v1de among the shareholders m
specie the whole or any part of the assets of the Company and may, for that purpose, value
any assets and deterrmne how the d1v1s1on shall be earned out as between the members or
different classes of shareholders The hqmdator may, with the hke sanctmn, vest the whole or
any part of the assets m trustees upon such trusts for the benefit of the shareholders as he with
the hke sancllon deterrnmes, but no shareholder shall be compelled to accept any assets upon
which there is a hab1hty
40.

INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE

Indemnity
40 1
To the extent permitted by the Act and without prejudice to any mdemmty to which
he may otherwise be enlltled, every person who is or was a director or other officer of the
Company (other than any person, whether or not an officer of the Company, engaged by the
Company as auditor) shall be and shall be kept mderrm1fied out of the assets of the Company
agamst all costs, charges, losses and hab1hlles mcurred by him (whether m connectmn with
any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust by him or otherwise), m relatmn to
the Company or its affatrs provided that such mderrm1ty shall not apply m respect of any
hab1hty mcurred by him
(a)

to the Company or to any associated company,

(b)

to pay a fine imposed m cnmmal proceedmgs,

(c)

to pay a sum payable to a regulatory authonty by way ofa penalty m respect ofnoncomphance with any requtrement of a regulatory nature (howsoever ansmg),

(d)

m defendmg any cnmmal proceeds m which he 1s convicted,

(e)

m defend mg any civil proceedmgs brought by the Company, or an associated
company, m which judgment 1s given agamst him, or

(f)

m connectmn with any apphcatmn under any of the followmg prov1s1ons m which the
court refuses to grant him rehef, namely
(1)

secllon 661(3) or (4) of the Act (acqumt1on of shares by innocent nommee),
or

(n)

sectmn I I 57 of the Act (court power to grant relief m certam cases)

40 2
In article 40 I (d), (e) or (f), the reference to a conv1ct1on, judgment or refusal ofrehef
1s a reference to one that has become final A conv1ct1on, judgment or refusal of rehef
becomes final
(a)

if not appealed agamst, at the end of the penod for bnngmg an appeal, or

(b)

if appealed agamst, at a time when the appeal (or any further appeal) is disposed of

An appeal ts disposed of

(c)

if it is determmed and the penod for brmgmg any further appeal has ended, or

(d)

if it is abandoned or otherwise ceases to have effect

40 3
To the extent permitted by the Act and without prejudice to any mdenm1ty to which
he may otherwise be enlltled, every person who is or was a director of the Company actmg m
its capacity as a trustee of an occupat10nal pension scheme shall be and shall be kept
mdenm1fied out of the assets of the Company agamst all costs, charges, losses and hab1hlles
mcurred by him m connect10n with the Company's act1v1lles as trustee of the scheme
provided that such mdenm1ty shall not apply m respect of any hab1hty mcurred by him
(a)

to pay a fine imposed m cnmmal proceedmgs,

(b)

to pay a sum payable to a regulatory authonty by way of a penalty m respect of noncompliance with any reqmrement of a regulatory nature (howsoever ansmg), or

(c)

m defendmg cnmmal proceedmgs m which he is convicted

For the purposes of this article, a reference to a conv1ct1on is to the final decmon m the
proceedmgs The provmons of article 40 2 shall apply m determmmg when a conv1ct10n
becomes final
40 4
Without prejudice to article 40 l or to any mdenm1ty to which a director may
otherwise be entttled, and to the extent perrrutted by the Act and otherwise upon such terms
and subject to such cond1llons as the directors may m their absolute d1screllon thmk fit, the
directors shall have the power to make arrangements to provide a director with funds to meet
expenditure mcurred or to be mcurred by him m defendmg any crimmal or civil proceedmgs
or m connecllon with an apphcat10n under secllon 661 of the Act (acqms1t10n of shares by
innocent nommee) or sect10n 1157 of the Act (court power to grant rehef m certam cases) or
m defendmg himself m an mvest1gal!on by a regulatory authority or agamst action proposed
to be taken by a regulatory authority or to enable a director to avmd mcurnng any such
expenditure
Insurance

40 5
To the extent perrrutted by the Act, the directors may exercise all the powers of the
Company to purchase and mamtam msurance for the benefit of a person who is or was
(a)

a director, alternate director, secretary or employee of the Company or of a company
which is or was the holdmg company or a subsidiary undertakmg of the Company, or
m which the Company or such holdmg company or subs1d1ary undertakmg has or had
an mterest (whether direct or md1rect), or with which the Company or such holdmg
company or subsidiary undertakmg ts or was m any way alhed or associated, or

(b)

trustee of a retirement benefits scheme or other trust m which a person referred to m
the precedmg paragraph ts or has been mterested,

mdenm1fymg him and keepmg him mdenm1fied agamst hab1hty for neghgence, default,
breach of duty or breach of trust or other hab1hty which may lawfully be msured agamst by
the Company

Illllll lllll lllll lllll 111111111111111111111111111111111
Greffe du Tribunal de Commerce de Paris
1 qual de la Corse
75198 Paris CEDEX 04
N° de gestlon 1969603248

Extrait Kbis
EXTRAIT D'IMMATRICULATION PRINCIPALE AU REGISTRE DU COMMERCE ET DES SOCIETES

a jour au

26 mai 2016

IDENTIFICATION DE LA PERSONNE MORALE
Immatriculation au RCS, numero 692 032 485 R.C.S. Paris
Date d'immatriculation
31/07/1969
Denomination ou raison sociale
Forme juridique
Capital social
Adresse du siege
Activites principales

Greffe du Tribunal de Commerce de Pari s

BANQUE CENTRALE DE COMPENSATION
Societe anonyme
113 066 860,26 EUROS
18 rue du 4 Septembre 75002 Paris
ACTIVITE DE CHAMBRE DE COMPENSATION TELLE QUE DEFINIE PAR
L'ARTICLE L440-1 DU CODE MONETAIRE ET FINANCIER ET PAR LES
ARTICLES 541-1 ET SUIVANTS DU REGLEMENT GENERAL DE
L'AUTORITE DES MARCHES FINANCIERS. A CE TITRE, ELLE EST : LA
CHAMBRE DE COMPENSATION D'INSTRUMENTS FINANCIERS ADMIS A
LA NEGOCIATION SUR TOUT MARCHE REGLEMENTE, SYSTEME
MULTILATERAL DE NEGOCIATION OU TOUT AUTRE FORME DE MARCHE
OU DE SYSTEME DE NEGOCIATION GERE PAR UNE ENTREPRISE
D'INVESTISSEMENT
LA
CHAMBRE
DE
COMPENSATION
D'INSTRUMENTS FINANCIERS NEGOCIES DE GRE A GRE ET
ENREGISTRES SELON LES MODALITES QU'ELLE FIXE. LA SOCIETE PEUT
EXERCER DES ACTIVITES DE SERVICES D'INVESTISSEMENT DANS LES
LIMITES DE L'AGREMENT DELIVRE PAR L'AUTORITE DE CONTROLE
PRUDENTIEL
EN
TANT
QUE
PRESTATAIRE
DE
SERVICES
D'INVESTISSEMENT. LA SOCIETE PEUT EGALEMENT CONSTITUER,
OPERER ET GERER UN SYSTEME DE REGLEMENT LIVRAISON
D'INSTRUMENTS FINANCIERS TEL QUE DEFINI A L'ARTICLE L.330-1 DU
CODE MONETAIRE ET FINANCIER. ELLE PEUT COMPENSER ET
GARANTIR TOUT OU PARTIE DES OBLIGATIONS DECOULANT DES
TRANSACTIONS EFFECTUEES SUR TOUT MARCHE D'INSTRUMENTS
FINANCIERS SUR LA BASE ET DANS LES CONDITIONS DEFINIES PAR
UNE CONVENTION QU'ELLE SIGNE AVEC LA SOCIETE QUI GERE LEDIT
MARCHE ET DANS LES LIMITES AUTORISEES PAR L'AUTORITE DE
CONTROLE PRUDENTIEL. LA SOCIETE PEUT FAIRE POUR ELLE-MEME,
POUR LE COMPTE DE TIERS EN PARTICIPATION, EN FRANCE ET A
L'ETRANGER, TOUTES OPERATIONS DE QUELQUE NATURE QU'ELLES
SOIENT, BANCAIRES (RELEVANT DU LIVRE VDU CODE MONETAIRE ET
FINANCIER),
FINANCIERES,
ECONOMIQUES,
INDUSTRIELLES,
CIVILES
OU
COMMERCIALES,
MOBILIERES
OU
JURIDIQUES,
IMMOBILIERES, Y COMPRIS LA FOURNITURE DE MOYENS TECHNIQUES
ET/OU DE SERVICES INFORMATIQUES NOTAMMENT A LCH.CLEARNET
GROUP LIMITED, AUX SOCIETES DANS LESQUELLES CETTE DERNIERE
A UNE PARTICIPATION AU SENS DES ARTICLES L.233- 1 ET SUIVANTS
DU CODE DE COMMERCE, ET A SES ADHERENTS OU AUX
FOURNISSEURS DE SERVICES INFORMATIQUES AUX DITS ADHERENTS
POUVANT SE RATTACHER DIRECTEMENT OU INDIRECTEMENT A
L'OBJET CI-DESSUS OU A TOUS OBJETS SIMILAIRES, CONNEXES OU
COMPLEMENTAIRES SOUS RESERVE DE L'AGREMENT DE L'AUTORITE
DE CONTROLE PRUDENTIEL, DU RESPECT DES DISPOSITIONS LEGALES
ET REGLEMENTAIRES QUI LUI SONT APPLICABLES CONFORMEMENT AU
DROIT FRANCAIS, AUX DIRECTIVES EUROPEENNES ET AUX ACCORDS
INTERNATIONAUX.
ALGU 27/05/2016 08 :35 :37 Page 1/5 (3)

*165976496*

BANQUE CENTRALE DE COMPENSATION
RCS 692 032 485 (1969003248)

Duree de la personne morale
Date de cloture de l'exercice
social

Illllll lllll lllll lllll 111111111111111111111111111111111
Jusqu'au 30/07 /2068
31 decembre

GESTION, DIRECTION, ADMINISTRATION, CONTROLE, ASSOCIES OU MEMBRES
President du conseil d'administration
Nom, prenoms
Hoogduin Leonardus
Date et lieu de naissance
Le 07/09/1956 Leiden (PAYS-BAS)
Nationalite
Neerlandaise
Domicile personnel
Julianalaan 2 1412 GS Naarden (Pays-Bas)

a

Directeur general - Administrateur
Nom, prenoms
Hemon Christophe
Date et lieu de naissance
Le 14/06/1961 a Mansigne (72)
Nationalite
Franc;aise
Domicile personnel
132 avenue Achille Peretti 92200 Neuilly sur Seine
Administrateur
Nom, prenoms
Date et lieu de naissance
Nationalite
Domicile personnel

Abrams Ian
Le 17/08/1950 LIVERPOOL (ROYAUME-UNI)
Britannique
4 Eden Close Hampstead Londres NW3 7UL (Royaume-Uni)

Administrateur
Nom, prenoms
Date et lieu de naissance
Nationalite
Domicile personnel

Walker Neil
Le 02/07/1969 Londres (ROYAUME-UNI)
Britannique
21 Belsize Crescent NW3 5QY London (Royaume-Uni)

Administrateur
Nom, prenoms
Date et lieu de naissance
Nationalite
Domicile personnel

Mclaughlin Dennis
Le 22/03/1963 Eireannach (IRLANDE)
Irlandaise
11 The Chase SL5 7UJ Ascot Berkshire (lrlande)

Administrateur
Nom, prenoms
Date et lieu de naissance
Nationalite
Domicile personnel

Litvack Eric
Le 16/10/1964 a Montreal (CANADA)
Franc;aise
20 route du Grand Pont 78110 Le Vesinet

Administrateur
Nom, prenoms
Date et lieu de naissance
Nationalite
Domicile personnel

Harry Serge
Le 03/02/1960 a Montargis (45)
Franc;aise
39 avenue Franklin Roosevelt 92330 Sceaux

Administrateur
Nom, prenoms
Date et lieu de naissance
Nationalite
Domicile personnel

Bourrette Remi
Le 10/11/1969 Paris 20eme (75)
Franc;aise
Flat 2, 30 Bina Gardens London SW5 OLA (Royaume-Uni)

Administrateur
Nom, prenoms
Date et lieu de naissance
Nationalite
Domicile personnel

Perrier Yves
Le 26/10/1954 Scionzier (74)
Franc;aise
41 rue de Saint-Petersbourg 75008 Paris

Administrateur
Nom, prenoms
Date et lieu de naissance
Nationalite

Bakhsi Suneel
Le 05/09/1958
Britannique

Greffe du Tribunal de Commerce de Paris

a

a

a

a

a

a Amritsar (INDE)

ALGU 27/05/2016 08 :35:37 Page 2/5 (4)

*165976496*

Domicile personnel

1 phillimore place London W8 7BY (Royaume-Uni)

Administrateur
Nom, prenoms
Date et lieu de naissance
Nationalite
Domicile personnel

Attia Anthony
Le 11/04/1974 Nice (06)
Franc;aise
29 avenue de la Motte Piquet 75007 Paris

Administrateur
Nom, prenoms
Date et lieu de naissance
Nationafite
Domicile personnel
Administrateur
Nom, prenoms
Date et lieu de naissance
Nationalite
Domicile personnel

a

Eliot Jonathan
Le 24/03/1966 a CROWBOROUGH (ROYAUME-UNI)
Britannique
East Sussex - TN7 4DN Cotchford House Hartfield East Sussex
(Royaume-Uni)
Lubochinsky Catherine
Le 06/09/1957 Paris 12eme (75)
Franc;aise
19 rue Bezout 75014 Paris

a

Commissaire aux comptes titulaire
Denomination
ERNST & YOUNG AUDIT
Forme juridique
Societe anonyme
Adresse
Tour Ernst & Young faubourg de l'Arche 92037 Paris la Defense CEDEX
Immatriculation au RCS, numero 344 366 315 Nanterre
Commissaire aux comptes titulaire
Denomination
KPMG AUDIT FS I
Forme juridique
Societe par actions simplifiee
Adresse
Immeuble le Palatin 3 cours du Triangle 92939 Paris la Defense CEDEX
Immatriculation au RCS, numero 512 802 596 Nanterre
Commissaire aux comptes suppleant
Denomination
KPMG AUDIT FS II
Forme juridique
Societe par actions simplifiee
Adresse
Immeuble le Palatin 3 cours du Triangle 92939 Paris la Defense CEDEX
Immatriculation au RCS, numero 512 802 539 Nanterre
Commissaire aux comptes suppleant
Denomination
PICARLE ET ASSOCIES
Fordfe juridique
Societe par actions simplifiee
Adresse
Fbd de l'Arche tour Ernst & Young 92037 Paris la Defense CEDEX
Immatriculation au RCS, numero 410 105 894 Paris

SOCIETE RESULTANT D'UNE FUSION OU D'UNE SCISSION
- Mention n° 23868 du
23/07/1999

Greffe du Tribunal de Commerce de Paris

SOCIETE AVANT PARTICIPE A L'OPERATION DE SCISSION
DENOMINATION SOCIETE DE BOURSES
FRANCAISES FORME
JURIDIQUE SA SIEGE SOCIAL PALAIS DE LA BOURSE 75002 PARIS RCS
8343406732

ALGU 27/05/2016 08:35:37 Page 3/5 (5)

* 165976496*

BANQUE CENTRALE DE COMPENSATION
RCS 692 032 485 (1969603248)

1111111 lllll lllll lllll lllll lllll lllll lllll lllll llll IUI

RENSEIGNEMENTS RELATIFS A L'ACTIVITE ET A L'ETABLISSEMENT PRINCIPAL
Adresse de l'etab!issement
Nom commercial
Activite(s) exercee(s)

18 rue du 4 Septembre 75002 Paris
LCH.Clearnet SA et LCH SA
ACTIVITE DE CHAMBRE DE COMPENSATION TELLE QUE DEFINIE PAR
L'ARTICLE L440-1 DU CODE MONETAIRE ET FINANCIER ET PAR LES
ARTICLES 541-1 ET SUIVANTS DU REGLEMENT GENERAL DE
L'AUTORITE DES MARCHES FINANCIERS. A CE TITRE, ELLE EST : LA
CHAMBRE DE COMPENSATION D'INSTRUMENTS FINANCIERS ADMIS A
LA NEGOCIATION SUR TOUT MARCHE REGLEMENTE, SYSTEME
MULTILATERAL DE NEGOCIATION OU TOUT AUTRE FORME DE MARCHE
OU DE SYSTEME DE NEGOCIATION GERE PAR UNE ENTREPRISE
D'INVESTISSEMENT
LA
CHAMBRE
DE
COMPENSATION
D'INSTRUMENTS FINANCIERS NEGOCIES DE GRE A GRE ET
ENREGISTRES SELON LES MODALITES QU'ELLE FIXE. LA SOCIETE PEUT
EXERCER DES ACTIVITES DE SERVICES D'INVESTISSEMENT DANS LES
LIMITES DE L'AGREMENT DELIVRE PAR L'AUTORITE DE CONTROLE
PRUDENTIEL
EN
TANT
QUE
PRESTATAIRE
DE
SERVICES
D'INVESTISSEMENT. LA SOCIETE PEUT EGALEMENT CONSTITUER,
OPERER ET GERER UN SYSTEME DE REGLEMENT LIVRAISON
D'INSTRUMENTS FINANCIERS TEL QUE DEFINI A L'ARTICLE L.330-1 DU
CODE MONETAIRE ET FINANCIER. ELLE PEUT COMPENSER ET
GARANTIR TOUT OU PARTIE DES OBLIGATIONS DECOULANT DES
TRANSACTIONS EFFECTUEES SUR TOUT MARCHE D'INSTRUMENTS
FINANCIERS SUR LA BASE ET DANS LES CONDITIONS DEFINIES PAR
UNE CONVENTION QU'ELLE SIGNE AVEC LA SOCIETE QUI GERE LEDIT
MARCHE ET DANS LES LIMITES AUTORISEES PAR L'AUTORITE DE
CONTROLE PRUDENTIEL. LA SOCIETE PEUT FAIRE POUR ELLE-MEME,
POUR LE COMPTE DE TIERS EN PARTICIPATION, EN FRANCE ET A
L'ETRANGER, TOUTES OPERATIONS DE QUELQUE NATURE QU'ELLES
SOIENT, BANCAIRES (RELEVANT DU LIVRE V DU CODE MONETAIRE ET
FINANCIER),
FINANCIERES,
ECONOMIQUES,
INDUSTRIELLES,
JURIDIQUES,
CIVILES
OU
COMMERCIALES,
MOBILIERES
OU
IMMOBILIERES, Y COMPRIS LA FOURNITURE DE MOYENS TECHNIQUES
ET/OU DE SERVICES INFORMATIQUES NOTAMMENT A LCH.CLEARNET
GROUP LIMITED, AUX SOCIETES DANS LESQUELLES CETTE DERNIERE
A UNE PARTICIPATION AU SENS DES ARTICLES L.233-1 ET SUIVANTS
DU CODE DE COMMERCE, ET A SES ADHERENTS OU AUX
FOURNISSEURS DE SERVICES INFORMATIQUES AUX DITS ADHERENTS
POUVANT SE RATTACHER DIRECTEMENT OU INDIRECTEMENT A
L'OBJET CI-DESSUS OU A TOUS OBJETS SIMILAIRES, CONNEXES OU
COMPLEMENTAIRES SOUS RESERVE DE L'AGREMENT DE L'AUTORITE
DE CONTROLE PRUDENTIEL, DU RESPECT DES DISPOSITIONS LEGALES
ET REGLEMENTAIRES QUI LUI SONT APPLICABLES CONFORMEMENT AU
DROIT FRANCAIS, AUX DIRECTIVES EUROPEENNES ET AUX ACCORDS
INTERNATIONAUX.
31/07/1969

Date de commencement
d'activite
Origine du fonds ou de l'activite Creation
Mode d'exploitation

Exploitation directe

OBSERVATIONS ET RENSEIGNEMENTS COMPLEMENTAIRES
- Mention n° 1
- Mention n° 73544 du
05/03/2002

Greffe du Tribunal de Commerce de Paris

SOCIETE REGIE PAR LA LOI DU 24 JUILLET 1966 ET LE DECRET DU 23
MARS 1967 SUR LES SOCIETES COMMERCIALES.
MISE EN HARMONIE DES STATUTS AVEC LA LOI 2001-420 DU 15 MAI
2001

ALGU 27/05/2016 08:35 :37 Page 4/5 (6)

*165976496*

BANQUE CENTRALE DE COMPENSATION
RCS 692 032 485 (1969603248)

Illllll lllll lllll lllll lllll lllll lllll lllll lllll llll llll
Le Greffier

FIN DE L'EXTRAIT
RCS Paris - 27/05/2016 - 08:35:37

Greffe du Trlburial de Commerce de Paris

ALGU 27/05/2016 08:35:37 Page 5/5 (7)

*165976496*

EXHIBIT E-4

LCH.Clearnet SA
CDS Clearing Rule Book
18 April 2016

Table of Contents
Page
TITLE I GENERAL PROVISIONS & LEGAL FRAMEWORK ......................................................... 1
CHAPTER 1

- DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION ................................................................ 3

Section 1.1.1

Terms defined in the CDS Clearing Rule Book ........................................................ 3

Section 1.1.2

Incorporation of defined terms ............................................................................... 39

Section 1.1.3

Interpretation and references ................................................................................. 39

CHAPTER 2

- GENERAL PROVISIONS ..................................................................................... 41

Section 1.2.1

General ................................................................................................................... 41

Section 1.2.2

Modification ............................................................................................................ 41

Section 1.2.3

Publication .............................................................................................................. 45

Section 1.2.4

Extension or waiver ................................................................................................ 45

Section 1.2.5

Notices - Communications ..................................................................................... 45

Section 1.2.6

Fees........................................................................................................................ 47

Section 1.2.7

Currency ................................................................................................................. 47

Section 1.2.8

Time reference ....................................................................................................... 48

Section 1.2.9

Obligations of LCH.Clearnet SA to each Clearing Member ................................... 48

Section 1.2.10

Liability ................................................................................................................. 49

Section 1.2.11

Force Majeure Events .......................................................................................... 52

Section 1.2.12

Confidentiality ....................................................................................................... 53

Section 1.2.13

Data protection ..................................................................................................... 55

Section 1.2.14

Governing law ...................................................................................................... 56

Section 1.2.15

Dispute resolution................................................................................................. 57

Section 1.2.16

Default Interest ..................................................................................................... 57

Section 1.2.17

Tax........................................................................................................................ 57

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

2

Published on 14 April 2016

CHAPTER 3

- LCH DEFAULT ..................................................................................................... 61

Section 1.3.1 .................................................................................................................................... 61
TITLE II MEMBERSHIP ................................................................................................................. 68
CHAPTER 1

- GENERAL PROVISIONS ..................................................................................... 69

Section 2.1.1

Participants ............................................................................................................. 69

CHAPTER 2

- LEGAL OBLIGATIONS ......................................................................................... 70

Section 2.2.1

Membership requirements...................................................................................... 70

Section 2.2.2

Continuing obligations ............................................................................................ 73

Section 2.2.3

Capital requirements .............................................................................................. 73

Section 2.2.4

Internal credit scoring ............................................................................................. 74

Section 2.2.5

Corporate organisation ........................................................................................... 74

Section 2.2.6

Membership of industry organisations or systems relating to CDS contracts ........ 74

Section 2.2.7

Third party contractual obligations ......................................................................... 75

Section 2.2.8

Test processing ...................................................................................................... 76

CHAPTER 3

- INFORMATION OBLIGATIONS, MONITORING AND AUDIT ............................. 77

Section 2.3.1

Information and financial reporting ......................................................................... 77

Section 2.3.2

Monitoring ............................................................................................................... 79

Section 2.3.3

Audit and inspection ............................................................................................... 79

Section 2.3.4

Record keeping ...................................................................................................... 80

Section 2.3.5

Clearing Member risk management ....................................................................... 80

CHAPTER 4

- SUSPENSION AND TERMINATION OF MEMBERSHIP .................................... 81

Section 2.4.1

Suspension ............................................................................................................. 81

Section 2.4.2

Membership Termination........................................................................................ 82

Section 2.4.3

Winding Down Event .............................................................................................. 86

TITLE III CLEARING OPERATIONS ............................................................................................. 87
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

3

Published on 14 April 2016

CHAPTER 1

- NOVATION AND REGISTRATION ...................................................................... 88

Section 3.1.1

Weekly Backloading Cycle ..................................................................................... 88

Section 3.1.2

Daily Backloading Cycle ......................................................................................... 90

Section 3.1.3

Backloading Failure ................................................................................................ 91

Section 3.1.4

Intraday Process .................................................................................................... 91

Section 3.1.5

Rejected Transactions ............................................................................................ 93

Section 3.1.6

Novation Process ................................................................................................... 93

Section 3.1.7

Pre-registration ....................................................................................................... 95

Section 3.1.8

Margin calculation .................................................................................................. 96

Section 3.1.9

Loss Distribution Periods........................................................................................ 97

Section 3.1.10

Registration of Cleared Transactions ................................................................... 98

Section 3.1.11

Reporting requirements ........................................................................................ 99

CHAPTER 2

– HOUSE ACCOUNT STRUCTURE .................................................................... 101

Section 3.2.1

House Trade Account ........................................................................................... 101

Section 3.2.2

House Margin Account ......................................................................................... 101

Section 3.2.3

House Collateral Account ..................................................................................... 101

CHAPTER 3

- COMPRESSION ................................................................................................. 103

Section 3.3.1

General ................................................................................................................. 103

TITLE IV RISK MANAGEMENT .................................................................................................. 105
CHAPTER 1

- GENERAL PROVISIONS ................................................................................... 106

Section 4.1.1 .................................................................................................................................. 106
CHAPTER 2

- MARGIN .............................................................................................................. 107

Section 4.2.1

Margin Requirement ............................................................................................. 107

Section 4.2.2

Excess Collateral and the Client Collateral Buffer ............................................... 107

Section 4.2.3

Collateral Calls ..................................................................................................... 109

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

4

Published on 14 April 2016

Section 4.2.4

Additional Collateral Call ...................................................................................... 111

Section 4.2.5

Variation Margin ................................................................................................... 112

Section 4.2.6

Collateral .............................................................................................................. 112

Section 4.2.7

Markit LCH Settlement Price ................................................................................ 114

CHAPTER 3

- EVENTS OF DEFAULT ...................................................................................... 116

Section 4.3.1

Events of Default .................................................................................................. 116

Section 4.3.2

Measures in case of an Event of Default ............................................................. 117

Section 4.3.3

Recourse following an Event of Default ............................................................... 121

CHAPTER 4

- CDS DEFAULT FUND ........................................................................................ 126

Section 4.4.1

Purpose of the CDS Default Fund and Relevant Calculations ............................. 126

Section 4.4.2

Contribution to the CDS Default Fund .................................................................. 129

Section 4.4.3

Application of the CDS Default Fund, Replenishment and Multiple Defaults ...... 130

TITLE V CDS CCM CLIENT CLEARING SERVICES ................................................................. 133
CHAPTER 1

- GENERAL PROVISIONS ................................................................................... 134

Section 5.1.1

Provision of CDS Client Clearing Services .......................................................... 134

Section 5.1.2

CDS Client Clearing DMP and Delegation ........................................................... 137

Section 5.1.3

Indirect clearing .................................................................................................... 138

CHAPTER 2

- CCM CLIENT ACCOUNT STRUCTURE ............................................................ 140

Section 5.2.1

General Provisions ............................................................................................... 140

Section 5.2.2

CCM Client Trade Accounts ................................................................................. 141

Section 5.2.3

CCM Client Margin Accounts ............................................................................... 141

Section 5.2.4

CCM Client Collateral Accounts ........................................................................... 142

CHAPTER 3

- TRANSFER ......................................................................................................... 144

Section 5.3.1

General ................................................................................................................. 144

Section 5.3.2

Full transfers ......................................................................................................... 144

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

5

Published on 14 April 2016

Section 5.3.3

Partial transfers .................................................................................................... 149

Section 5.3.4

Transfer of Client Assets ...................................................................................... 153

Section 5.3.5

Transfer process .................................................................................................. 154

CHAPTER 4

- EARLY TERMINATION ...................................................................................... 156

TITLE VI CDS FCM CLIENT CLEARING .................................................................................... 158
CHAPTER 1

- GENERAL PROVISIONS ................................................................................... 159

CHAPTER 2

– FCM CLIENT ACCOUNT STRUCTURE ........................................................... 163

Section 6.2.1

General Provisions ............................................................................................... 163

Section 6.2.2

FCM Client Trade Account ................................................................................... 163

Section 6.2.3

FCM Client Margin Account ................................................................................. 163

Section 6.2.4
Accounts

FCM Client Collateral Account, FCM Client Financial Account and Related
164

Section 6.2.5

FCM Client Collateral Buffer and FCM Unallocated Client Excess Collateral ..... 165

Section 6.2.6

Customer Margin Requirements .......................................................................... 168

CHAPTER 3

- TRANSFER ......................................................................................................... 169

Section 6.3.1

General ................................................................................................................. 169

Section 6.3.2

Full Transfers ....................................................................................................... 169

Section 6.3.3

Partial Transfers ................................................................................................... 170

Section 6.3.4

Transfer of Client Assets ...................................................................................... 171

Section 6.3.5

Transfer process .................................................................................................. 171

CHAPTER 4

– LIQUIDATION EVENT ....................................................................................... 173

APPENDIX 1 CDS DEFAULT MANAGEMENT PROCESS ......................................................... 174
1

Interpretation ..................................................................................................................... 174

2

CDS Default Management Process .................................................................................. 182

3

Obligations and Undertakings ........................................................................................... 183

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

6

Published on 14 April 2016

4

CDS Client Clearing Default Management Process ......................................................... 184

5

Competitive Bidding .......................................................................................................... 191

6

Registration of Transfer Positions ..................................................................................... 199

7

Loss Distribution Process .................................................................................................. 201

8

Early Termination .............................................................................................................. 203

9

Information regarding the CDS Default Management Process......................................... 208

10

Role and Constitution of the CDS Default Management Committee ................................ 210

11

Role and Constitution of the CDS Default Management Group ....................................... 211

12
Participation in the CDS Default Management Committee and CDS Default Management
Group 214
13

Subsistence of the CDS Default Management Process ................................................... 215

14

Liability of LCH.Clearnet SA.............................................................................................. 215

15

Governing Law .................................................................................................................. 215

Annex Confidentiality, non-disclosure and participation in the CDS Default Management Group 216
General obligations of the Clearing Member ................................................................................. 216
1

Confidentiality .................................................................................................................... 216

2

Secrecy ............................................................................................................................. 217

3

Property ............................................................................................................................. 217

4

Return of Confidential Material ......................................................................................... 217

5

No Representations or Warranties; No Conflict of Interest ............................................... 217

6

Remedies .......................................................................................................................... 218

General Terms of Participation in the CDS Default Management Group ..................................... 218
7

Conflict of interest ............................................................................................................. 218

8

Confidentiality .................................................................................................................... 218

9

Warranty and representation............................................................................................. 219

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

7

Published on 14 April 2016

TITLE I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
&
LEGAL FRAMEWORK

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

1

Published on 14 April 2016

Article 1.0.1.1
LCH.Clearnet SA is a clearing house within the meaning of Article L. 440-1 of the French Monetary
and Financial Code and EMIR which acts as a central counterparty for clearing Original
Transactions entered into between the CDS Buyer and the CDS Seller in accordance with the
CDS Clearing Documentation.
In this framework, LCH.Clearnet SA acts in accordance with applicable banking and financial
regulations, including EMIR.
LCH.Clearnet SA is under the supervision of its Competent Authorities within the scope of their
respective remit as granted by their national law.
Article 1.0.1.2
LCH.Clearnet SA has been notified to the European Commission as a securities settlement
system pursuant to the Settlement Finality Directive. Thus, as described in Section 1 of the
Procedures, any person with a legitimate interest can obtain information on LCH.Clearnet SA, the
CDS Clearing Service and the CDS Clearing Documentation upon request.
Article 1.0.1.3
In accordance with the CDS Clearing Documentation, LCH.Clearnet SA novates and clears CDS,
supervises the Cleared Transactions registered in the name of each Clearing Member, calculates
the risk associated with such Cleared Transactions, calls Margin to cover this risk, ensures the
proper settlement of the Cleared Transactions as central counterparty, manages the CDS Default
Management Process and performs all other functions specified in the CDS Clearing
Documentation.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

2

Published on 14 April 2016

CHAPTER 1 - DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION

Section 1.1.1

Terms defined in the CDS Clearing Rule Book

For the purposes of the CDS Clearing Documentation, the following capitalised terms shall, unless
otherwise specified, have the respective meanings set out below:
2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions: This term shall have the meaning set out in Part A of
the CDS Clearing Supplement.
2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions: This term shall have the meaning set out in Part B of
the CDS Clearing Supplement.
Account Structure: The House Account Structure and the Client Account Structure(s) of a CCM
and an FCM Clearing Member, respectively.
Accrued Fixed Amount Liquidation Risk Margin: The amount calculated by LCH.Clearnet SA,
in accordance with Section 2 of the Procedures.
Additional Contribution Amount: An unfunded contribution equal to the amount of a Clearing
Member’s Contribution which is payable by a Clearing Member to LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to
Article 4.4.3.2 following an application of the CDS Default Fund.
Additional Margin: The amount calculated by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Section 2 of
the Procedures.
Affected Clearing Member: In relation to the circumstances set out in Article 1.3.1.1(i), a Clearing
Member who has been subject to a failure to pay or deliver, and, in relation to the circumstances
set out in Article 1.3.1.1 (ii) or (iii), any Clearing Member.
Affiliate: With respect to a Clearing Member, any entity that controls, directly or indirectly, the
Clearing Member, any entity controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Clearing Member or any entity
directly or indirectly under common control with such Clearing Member. For this purpose, "control"
of an entity or of a Clearing Member means ownership of a majority of the voting power of the
entity or the Clearing Member. Solely for the purposes of classifying a Person as an FCM Client or
as an Affiliate of an FCM Clearing Member, the term “Affiliate” also means any Person whose
account, when carried by the FCM Clearing Member, would be considered a proprietary account
pursuant to CFTC Regulation 1.3(y) (or any successor or replacement regulation).
Allocated Client Collateral Buffer: The CCM Allocated Client Collateral Buffer or the FCM
Allocated Client Collateral Buffer, as the context requires.
AMF: The Autorité des Marchés Financiers and any successor organisation.
Applicable Law: Any applicable national, federal, supranational, state, provincial, local or other
statute, law, ordinance, regulation, rule, code, guidance, order, published practice or concession,
judgment or decision of a Governmental Authority or a Competent Authority.
Applicant: A legal person that wishes to be admitted as a Clearing Member.
Approved Trade Source System: An entity as specified in a Clearing Notice and with whom:
(i)

LCH.Clearnet SA has entered into an agreement regarding the submission of Original
Transactions by ATSS Participants for registration and clearing by LCH.Clearnet SA; and

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

3

Published on 14 April 2016

(ii)

ATSS Participants have entered into a participant agreement allowing such entity to
deliver Original Transactions details to LCH.Clearnet SA on behalf of the relevant ATSS
Participant for the purpose of clearing such Original Transactions by LCH.Clearnet SA.

ATSS Participant: A Clearing Member or a Client that is a direct participant in an Approved Trade
Source System.
Auction Settlement Amount: In respect of any Cleared Transaction, as defined under the terms
of such Cleared Transaction incorporating the ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions.
Automatic Early Termination Event Stipulation: A stipulation by LCH.Clearnet SA that Cleared
Transactions of a Clearing Member are subject to automatic termination.
Available Client Collateral Buffer: The CCM Available Client Collateral Buffer or the FCM
Available Client Collateral Buffer, as the context requires.
Backloading Failure: With respect to a Clearing Member due to have a Cleared Transaction,
arising from a Backloading Transaction, registered in any of its Trade Accounts, the failure by such
Clearing Member to transfer the Required Collateral Amount to LCH.Clearnet SA at the relevant
Morning Call.
Backloading Failure Notice: A notice in writing setting out details of the occurrence of a
Backloading Failure (which, for the avoidance of doubt, shall not identify, directly or indirectly, the
relevant Clearing Member(s) subject to such Backloading Failure).
Backloading Transaction: A Weekly Backloading Transaction or a Daily Backloading
Transaction.
Backloading Transaction Reports: This term shall have the meaning set out in Section 5 of the
Procedures.
Backup Clearing Member: In relation to Client Cleared Transactions, the Clearing Member
indicated by the relevant Client as acting as such and notified to LCH.Clearnet SA from time to
time, provided that:
(i)

only an FCM Clearing Member may serve as Backup Clearing Member of an FCM Client;
and

(ii)

only a CCM may serve as Backup Clearing Member of a CCM Client.

Backup Client: In relation to Client Cleared Transactions registered in a CCM Indirect Client
Segregated Account Structure, the CCM Individual Segregated Account Client indicated by the
relevant CCM as acting as such and notified to LCH.Clearnet SA from time to time.
Banking Consolidation Directive: Directive 2006/48/EC.
Bilateral Trades Report: This term shall have the meaning set out in Section 5 of the Procedures.
Buffer Collateral Account: With respect to each CCM, the house account opened in the books of
LCH.Clearnet SA to record its CCM Client Collateral Buffer, and with respect to each FCM
Clearing Member, the FCM Buffer Financial Account opened in the books of LCH.Clearnet SA
within the FCM Clearing Member’s Client Account Structure.
Business Day: Any day that is not a holiday in the TARGET2 calendar.
Capital Requirements Directive: Banking Consolidation Directive and Directive 2006/49/EC.
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

4

Published on 14 April 2016

Carrying Clearing Member: The Clearing Member in whose Client Trade Account(s) and CCM
Client Collateral Account(s) (with respect to a CCM) or FCM Client Financial Account(s) (with
respect to an FCM Clearing Member) Client Cleared Transactions and associated Client Assets,
which are to be transferred (in whole or in part) to a Receiving Clearing Member in accordance
with TITLE V, ‎Chapter 3 or TITLE VI, Chapter 3 (as applicable), are registered.
Cash Collateral: Any cash provided in an Eligible Currency which is transferred to LCH.Clearnet
SA by way of full title transfer in accordance with Section 3 of the Procedures for the purpose of
satisfying a Clearing Member’s Margin Requirements and/or its Contribution Requirement and/or
novating Original Transactions, as the case may be.
Cash Payment: Any payment due by a Clearing Member to LCH.Clearnet SA, or due to be
received by a Clearing Member from LCH.Clearnet SA, of:
(i)

cash amounts due upon the occurrence of Credit Events;

(ii)

Price Alignment Interest;

(iii)

Fixed Amounts;

(iv)

Variation Margin;

(v)

Initial Payment Amount;

(vi)

any fees due to LCH.Clearnet SA;

(vii)

cash amounts due in connection with an MTM Change; or

(viii)

any other cash amounts (other than Cash Collateral).

Cash Payment Day: With respect to a Cleared Transaction with a CDS Contractual Currency:
(i)

in Euro: a Business Day; or

(ii)

in US Dollar:
(a)

a Business Day that is a day on which commercial banks in New York City are open
for business; or

(b)

with respect to cash amounts due upon the occurrence of Credit Events only as
referred to in the definition of Cash Payment, any day that is a day on which
commercial banks in New York City are open for business.

CCM: Any legal entity admitted as a clearing member in accordance with the CDS Clearing Rules
and party to the CDS Admission Agreement and which, if such entity is an FCM, has satisfied
LCH.Clearnet SA that it is able to provide the CCM CDS Client Clearing Services described in
TITLE V.
CCM Allocated Client Collateral Buffer: The portion of the CCM Client Collateral Buffer which, at
the relevant time, is allocated to a CCM Client Account Structure in accordance with ‎Article 4.2.2.4
and Section 2 of the Procedures.
CCM Available Client Collateral Buffer: The portion of the CCM Client Collateral Buffer which, at
the relevant time, is not allocated to any CCM Client Account Structure.
CCM Cleared Transaction: A CDS between LCH.Clearnet SA and a CCM acting either in its own
name and for its own account (in respect of a House Cleared Transaction) or as commissionnaire
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

5

Published on 14 April 2016

in its own name and for the account of a Client (in respect of a Client Cleared Transaction),
registered in any Trade Account of such CCM and resulting from:
(i)

the novation of an Original Transaction;

(ii)

the creation of a Spin-off Single Name Cleared Transaction, a Restructuring Cleared
Transaction, a Resulting Single Name Cleared Transaction or a Physically Settled Cleared
Transaction (where applicable) pursuant to the CDS Clearing Supplement;

(iii)

the compression of existing Cleared Transactions to a single Cleared Transaction pursuant
to TITLE III, CHAPTER 3;

(iv)

LCH.Clearnet SA and a CCM entering into hedging transactions pursuant to the CDS
Default Management Process;

(v)

the porting of Client Cleared Transactions pursuant to TITLE V, CHAPTER 3;

(vi)

the porting of the Relevant Client Cleared Transactions pursuant to Clause 4.3 of the CDS
Default Management Process; or

(vii)

the registration of Transfer Positions pursuant to Clause 6 of the CDS Default
Management Process.

CCM Client: A CCM Individual Segregated Account Client, a CCM Net Omnibus Segregated
Account Client or a CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Client.
CCM Client Account Structure: A CCM Individual Segregated Account Structure, a CCM Net
Omnibus Segregated Account Structure or a CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Structure,
as the case may be.
CCM Client Collateral Account: With respect to each CCM, an account opened in the books of
LCH.Clearnet SA in relation to a CCM Client Account Structure to record the Collateral provided
by a CCM for the purpose of satisfying the CCM Client Margin Requirement(s) for such CCM
Client Account Structure and allowing the novation of Client Trade Legs of Eligible Intraday
Transactions.
CCM Client Collateral Buffer: The aggregate value of Collateral transferred by a CCM to
LCH.Clearnet SA and recorded in such CCM’s Buffer Collateral Account for the purpose of:
(i)

allocating Collateral to a CCM Client Account Structure in accordance with Article 4.2.2.4
and Section 2 of the Procedures to satisfy a positive Intraday Novation Margin
Requirement for Eligible Intraday Transactions comprising one or more Client Trade
Leg(s);

(ii)

covering the CCM’s House Cleared Transactions subsequent to an Event of Default
occurring in respect of such CCM in accordance with Article 4.3.3.1; or

(iii)

covering the CCM’s House Cleared Transactions subsequent to an LCH Default in
accordance with Article 1.3.1.6.

CCM Client Collateral Buffer Shortfall: The amount (if any) by which the CCM Client Collateral
Buffer Threshold exceeds the CCM Client Collateral Buffer.
CCM Client Collateral Buffer Threshold: The minimum value of Collateral which a CCM wishes
to maintain as CCM Client Collateral Buffer.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

6

Published on 14 April 2016

CCM Client Excess Collateral: With respect to:
(i)

a CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Client Margin Account or a CCM Individual Segregated
Client Margin Account, the amount by which the Margin Balance exceeds the relevant
CCM Client Margin Requirement; and

(ii)

all the CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Client Margin Account(s) and CCM Gross
Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client Margin Account(s) of a single CCM Gross Omnibus
Segregated Account Structure, the amount by which the Margin Balance exceeds the total
value of the CCM Client Margin Requirements associated to such CCM Gross Omnibus
Segregated Account Structure.

CCM Client Margin Account: A CCM Individual Segregated Client Margin Account, a CCM Net
Omnibus Segregated Client Margin Account, a CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client
Margin Account, CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Client Margin Account or a CCM Indirect
Client Segregated Margin Account, as the case may be.
CCM Client Margin Requirement: With respect to each CCM Client Margin Account of a CCM,
an amount equal to:
(i)

for all purposes other than the Morning Call: the aggregate of the Margins (other than
Variation Margin and Credit Quality Margin), calculated by LCH.Clearnet SA on the basis
of the Open Positions registered in such CCM Client Margin Account of the CCM plus any
positions corresponding to Eligible Intraday Transactions pre-registered in accordance with
‎Section 3.1.7; and

(ii)

for the purposes of the Morning Call: the higher of the following two amounts:
(a)

the aggregate of the Margins (other than Variation Margin and Credit Quality
Margin) in respect of the Open Positions registered in such CCM Client Margin
Account; or

(b)

the aggregate of the Margins (other than Variation Margin and Credit Quality
Margin) in respect of the Open Positions registered in such CCM Client Margin
Account plus any positions corresponding to Irrevocable Backloading Transactions
which are not Rejected Transactions and/or Cleared Transactions which are preregistered in accordance with ‎Section 3.1.7.

CCM Client Margin Shortfall: With respect to:
(i)

a CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Client Margin Account or a CCM Individual Segregated
Client Margin Account of a CCM, the amount by which the CCM Client Margin
Requirement for such CCM Client Margin Account exceeds the CCM Margin Balance of
the associated CCM Client Collateral Account, if any; and

(ii)

a CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Structure of a CCM, the amount by which the
CCM Client Margin Requirements for all the CCM Client Margin Accounts of such CCM
Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Structure exceeds the CCM Margin Balance of the
CCM Client Collateral Account associated to such CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated
Account Structure, if any.

CCM Client Termination Amount: For the purpose of Title I, Chapter 3, any net positive or
negative amount, denominated in Euro and determined pursuant to and in accordance with Article
1.3.1.9 (ii)(a).
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

7

Published on 14 April 2016

CCM Client Trade Account: An account opened by LCH.Clearnet SA at the request, and in the
name, of a CCM for the benefit of a CCM Client in order to register all Cleared Transactions
cleared by such CCM in relation to such CCM Client.
CCM Direct Client Segregated Account Structure: With respect to a CCM Individual
Segregated Account Structure opened by LCH.Clearnet SA in the name of a CCM for the benefit
of a CCM Individual Segregated Account Client, the sub-account structure consisting of:
(i)

a CCM Client Trade Account;

(ii)

a CCM Individual Segregated Client Margin Account; and

(iii)

a CCM Client Collateral Account,

for the purpose of registering Client Cleared Transactions which are not designated as being
entered into in relation to the clearing services provided by such CCM Individual Segregated
Account Client to its CCM Indirect Clients.
CCM Excess Collateral: The CCM Client Excess Collateral or the CCM House Excess Collateral,
as the case may be.
CCM Excess Collateral Threshold: The CCM House Excess Collateral Threshold or the CCM
Client Collateral Buffer Threshold as applicable.
CCM Gross Omnibus Client Set: All the CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Clients
belonging to the same CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Structure.
CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Client: A client of a CCM to which the CCM provides
CDS Client Clearing Services and which has opted for a CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account
Structure.
CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Client Margin Account: An account opened by
LCH.Clearnet SA in the name of a CCM for the benefit of a CCM Gross Omnibus Multi SubAccount Client Set in the CDS Clearing System for risk management purposes, in which the
Cleared Transactions of such CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Client Set are netted and
corresponding Open Positions are registered, and such CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account
Client Set related positions corresponding to Eligible Intraday Transactions and Irrevocable
Backloading Transactions pre-registered in the Account Structure of such CCM (if so applicable
pursuant to Section 3.1.7) are recorded, in order to calculate the CCM Client Margin Requirement
and Client Variation Margin Requirement of the relevant CCM in respect of such CCM Gross
Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Client Set.
CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Client Set: All the CCM Gross Omnibus Multi SubAccount Clients belonging to the same CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Structure.
CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Structure: With respect to a CCM Gross Omnibus
Segregated Account Structure, the sub-account structure consisting of:
(i)

a CCM Client Trade Account per CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Client belonging
to such CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Structure ;

(ii)

a single CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Client Margin Account opened for the
benefit of the relevant CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Client Set; and

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

8

Published on 14 April 2016

(iii)

a single CCM Client Collateral Account opened for the benefit of that CCM Gross Omnibus
Client Set.

CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Client: A CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account
Client or a CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client, as the case may be.
CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Structure: With respect to a CCM, the Account
Structure consisting of one or more CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Structure(s) and/or
one or more CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Structure(s) as linked together for that
CCM Client Account Structure in accordance with TITLE V, CHAPTER 2.
CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client: A client of a CCM to which the CCM provides
CDS Client Clearing Services and which has opted for a CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account
Structure.
CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client Margin Account: An account opened by
LCH.Clearnet SA in the name of a CCM for the benefit of a CCM Gross Omnibus Single SubAccount Client in the CDS Clearing System for risk management purposes, in which the Cleared
Transactions of the relevant CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client are netted and
corresponding Open Positions are registered, and any CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account
Client related positions corresponding to Eligible Intraday Transactions and Irrevocable
Backloading Transactions pre-registered in the Account Structure of such CCM (if so applicable
pursuant to Section 3.1.7) are recorded, in order to calculate the CCM Client Margin Requirement
and Client Variation Margin Requirement of the relevant CCM in respect of such CCM Gross
Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client.
CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Structure: With respect to a CCM Gross Omnibus
Segregated Account Structure, the sub-account structure consisting of:
(i)

a CCM Client Trade Account per CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client;

(ii)

a CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client Margin Account per CCM Gross
Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client; and

(iii)

a single CCM Client Collateral Account opened for the benefit of the relevant CCM Gross
Omnibus Client Set.

CCM Gross Omnibus Sub-Account Structure: A CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account
Structure or a CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Structure, as the case may be.
CCM Gross Omnibus Sub-Account Balance: In relation to each of the CCM Gross Omnibus
Sub-Account Structure of a CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Structure, the pro rata
share (“PRS”) of the most recent value of the Client Assets recorded in the relevant CCM Client
Collateral Account as determined by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Section 3 of the
Procedures, which is attributable to the CCM Client Margin Account of such CCM Gross Omnibus
Sub-Account Structure and which is determined on the basis of the following formula:

Where:
A is the last CCM Client Margin Requirement calculated and satisfied for the CCM
Client Margin Account of that CCM Gross Omnibus Sub-Account Structure; and
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

9

Published on 14 April 2016

B is the sum of all the last CCM Client Margin Requirements calculated and satisfied
for all the CCM Client Margin Accounts associated to the relevant CCM Gross Omnibus
Segregated Account Structure.
CCM House Collateral Account: With respect to each CCM, a house account opened in the
books of LCH.Clearnet SA to record Collateral provided by such CCM for the purpose of satisfying
its CCM House Margin Requirement and novating House Trade Legs of Eligible Intraday
Transactions.
CCM House Excess Collateral: With respect to a CCM House Margin Account, the amount by
which the Margin Balance exceeds the CCM House Margin Requirement for such CCM House
Margin Account.
CCM House Excess Collateral Shortfall: The amount (if any) by which the CCM House Excess
Collateral Threshold exceeds the CCM House Excess Collateral.
CCM House Excess Collateral Threshold: The minimum value of Collateral, which a CCM
wishes to maintain as CCM House Excess Collateral.
CCM House Margin Account: An account opened by LCH.Clearnet SA in the name of a CCM in
the CDS Clearing System for risk management purposes, in which CCM House Cleared
Transactions are netted and corresponding Open Positions are registered, and any house
positions corresponding to Eligible Intraday Transactions and Irrevocable Backloading
Transactions pre-registered in the Account Structure of such CCM (if so applicable pursuant to
Section 3.1.7) are recorded, in order to calculate the CCM House Margin Requirement and House
Variation Margin Requirement of the relevant CCM.
CCM House Margin Requirement: With respect to the CCM House Margin Account of each
CCM, an amount equal to:
(i)

for all purposes other than the Morning Call, the aggregate of the Margins (other than
Variation Margin) calculated by LCH.Clearnet SA on the basis of the Open Positions
registered in such CCM House Margin Account plus any positions corresponding to
Eligible Intraday Transactions pre-registered in accordance with ‎Section 3.1.7; and

(ii)

for the purposes of the Morning Call, the higher of the following amounts:
(a)

the aggregate of the Margins (other than Variation Margin) in respect of the Open
Positions registered in such CCM House Margin Account; or

(b)

the aggregate of the Margins (other than Variation Margin) in respect of the Open
Positions registered in such CCM House Margin Account plus any positions
corresponding to Irrevocable Backloading Transactions which are not Rejected
Transactions.

CCM House Margin Shortfall: With respect to a CCM House Margin Account of a CCM, the
amount by which the CCM House Margin Requirement for such CCM House Margin Account
exceeds the CCM Margin Balance of the associated CCM House Collateral Account, if any.
CCM Indirect Client: A client of a CCM Individual Segregated Account Client on whose account
such CCM Individual Segregated Account Client acts in receiving the CDS Client Clearing
Services from the relevant CCM.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

10

Published on 14 April 2016

CCM Indirect Client Segregated Account Structure: With respect to a CCM Individual
Segregated Account Structure opened by LCH.Clearnet SA in the name of a CCM for the benefit a
CCM Individual Segregated Account Client, the sub-account structure consisting of:
(i)

a CCM Client Trade Account;

(i)

a CCM Indirect Client Segregated Margin Account; and

(ii)

a CCM Client Collateral Account,

for the purpose of registering Client Cleared Transactions which are designated as entered into in
relation to the clearing services provided by such CCM Individual Segregated Account Client to its
CCM Indirect Clients.
CCM Indirect Client Segregated Margin Account: An account opened by LCH.Clearnet SA in
the name of a CCM for the benefit of all the CCM Indirect Clients of a CCM Individual Segregated
Account Client in the CDS Clearing System for risk management purposes, in which the Cleared
Transactions of all the CCM Indirect Clients of the relevant CCM Individual Segregated Account
Client are netted and corresponding Open Positions are registered, and any CCM Individual
Segregated Account Client’s CCM Indirect Clients related positions corresponding to Eligible
Intraday Transactions and Irrevocable Backloading Transactions pre-registered in the Account
Structure of such CCM (if so applicable pursuant to Section 3.1.7) are recorded, in order to
calculate the CCM Client Margin Requirement and Client Variation Margin Requirement of the
relevant CCM in respect of such CCM Indirect Clients.
CCM Individual Segregated Account Client: A client of a CCM (including for the avoidance of
doubt an Affiliate) to which the CCM provides CDS Client Clearing Services and which has opted
for a CCM Individual Segregated Account Structure.
CCM Individual Segregated Account Structure: With respect to a CCM, the account structure
consisting of:
(i)

for each CCM Individual Segregated Account Client of such CCM: a CCM Direct Client
Segregated Account Structure, and

(ii)

for each CCM Individual Segregated Account Client of such CCM which has opted to
provide indirect clearing services: a CCM Indirect Client Segregated Account Structure.

CCM Individual Segregated Client Margin Account: An account opened by LCH.Clearnet SA in
the name of a CCM for the benefit of a CCM Individual Segregated Account Client in the CDS
Clearing System for risk management purposes, in which the Cleared Transactions of the relevant
CCM Individual Segregated Account Client are netted and corresponding Open Positions are
registered, and any CCM Individual Segregated Account Client related positions corresponding to
Eligible Intraday Transactions and Irrevocable Backloading Transactions pre-registered in the
Account Structure of such CCM (if so applicable pursuant to Section 3.1.7) are recorded, in order
to calculate the CCM Client Margin Requirement and Client Variation Margin Requirement of the
relevant CCM in respect of such CCM Individual Segregated Account Client.
CCM Margin Balance: With respect to:
(i)

the CCM House Margin Account of a CCM, the aggregate value of Collateral transferred to
LCH.Clearnet SA recorded in such CCM’s CCM House Collateral Account;

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

11

Published on 14 April 2016

(ii)

a CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Client Margin Account or a CCM Individual Segregated
Client Margin Account of a CCM, the aggregate value of Collateral transferred to
LCH.Clearnet SA recorded in the CCM Client Collateral Account attached to the relevant
Client Margin Account; and

(iii)

all the CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Client Margin Account(s) and CCM Gross
Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client Margin Account(s) of a single CCM Gross Omnibus
Segregated Account Structure, the aggregate value of the Collateral transferred to
LCH.Clearnet SA recorded in the CCM Client Collateral Account associated to such CCM
Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Structure.

CCM Net Omnibus Client Set: All the CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account Clients belonging
to the same CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account Structure.
CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account Client: A client of a CCM to which the CCM provides
CDS Client Clearing Services and which has opted for a CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account
Structure.
CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account Structure: With respect to a CCM, the Account
Structure consisting of:
(i)

a CCM Client Trade Account per CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account Client belonging
to such CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account Structure;

(ii)

a single CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Client Margin Account opened for the benefit of
the relevant CCM Net Omnibus Client Set; and

(iii)

a single CCM Client Collateral Account opened for the benefit of that CCM Net Omnibus
Client Set.

CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Client Margin Account: An account opened by LCH.Clearnet
SA in the name of a CCM for the benefit of a CCM Net Omnibus Client Set in the CDS Clearing
System for risk management purposes, in which the Cleared Transactions of such CCM Net
Omnibus Client Set are netted and corresponding Open Positions are registered, and such CCM
Net Omnibus Client Set related positions corresponding to Eligible Intraday Transactions and
Irrevocable Backloading Transactions pre-registered in the Account Structure of such CCM (if so
applicable pursuant to Section 3.1.7) are recorded, in order to calculate the CCM Client Margin
Requirement and Client Variation Margin Requirement of the relevant CCM in respect of such
CCM Net Omnibus Client Set.
CCM Omnibus Segregated Account Client: A CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Client
or a CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account Client, as the case may be.
CCM Required Collateral Amount: For each CCM, the sum of:
(i)

the CCM House Margin Shortfall;

(ii)

the CCM House Excess Collateral Shortfall;

(iii)

the CCM Client Collateral Buffer Shortfall; and

(iv)

the Total Client Margin Shortfall.

CCM Unallocated Client Collateral: Cash Collateral provided by a CCM to LCH.Clearnet SA in
accordance with Article 4.2.2.3 and Section 3 of the Procedures which is identified as being for the
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

12

Published on 14 April 2016

account of one or more CCM Clients but where such CCM has not specified the CCM Client
Collateral Account(s) in which such Cash Collateral should be recorded.
CCM Unallocated Client Collateral Account: With respect to each CCM, the client account
opened in the books of LCH.Clearnet SA to record any CCM Unallocated Client Collateral.
CDS: A credit default swap transaction.
CDS Admission Agreement: The written agreement (including its annexes), as amended from
time to time, entered into between LCH.Clearnet SA and an Applicant in order for such Applicant to
become a Clearing Member.
CDS Buyer: A Clearing Member that is party to a Cleared Transaction as protection buyer.
CDS Clearing Document: Any document which forms part of the CDS Clearing Documentation.
CDS Clearing Documentation: The CDS Admission Agreement, the CDS Clearing Rules, the
CDS Clearing Supplement Documents, the Index Cleared Transaction Confirmation and the Single
Name Cleared Transaction Confirmation (including all exhibits, attachments, annexes, schedules
and appendices thereto, and any document incorporated by reference therein, if any), as each
such document is amended from time to time.
CDS Clearing Rule Book: This document (including all exhibits, attachments, annexes,
schedules and appendices hereto), as amended from time to time.
CDS Clearing Rules: This CDS Clearing Rule Book, the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol, the
Procedures, all related Clearing Notices and, in the case of an FCM Clearing Member, the FCM
CDS Clearing Regulations, as each such document is amended from time to time.
CDS Clearing Service: The service provided by LCH.Clearnet SA in respect of clearing CDS in
accordance with the CDS Clearing Documentation, including the special terms applicable to use of
the service by a CCM pursuant to TITLE V and to use of the service by an FCM Clearing Member
pursuant to TITLE VI.
CDS Clearing Supplement: The document issued by LCH.Clearnet SA and entitled "CDS
Clearing Supplement", as amended from time to time.
CDS Clearing Supplement Documents: The CDS Clearing Supplement, the Procedures and all
related Clearing Notices, as each such document is amended from time to time.
CDS Clearing System: The IT system managed by LCH.Clearnet SA and providing Clearing
Members with technical access to the CDS Clearing Service.
CDS Client Clearing Agreement: The client clearing agreement entered into between a Clearing
Member and a Client which relates, in whole or in part, to the clearing of CDS through the CDS
Clearing Service.
CDS Client Clearing DMP or CDS Client Clearing Default Management Process: The process
set out in Clause 4 of the CDS Default Management Process and pursuant to which LCH.Clearnet
SA will effect the porting of the Relevant Client Cleared Transactions or the liquidation of the NonPorted Cleared Transactions.
CDS Client Clearing Entitlement: This term has the meaning set out in Clause 4
‎ .4.3 of the CDS
Default Management Process.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

13

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Client Clearing Services: Clearing services in respect of CDS provided by a Clearing
Member to its Clients.
CDS Contractual Currency: The currency required under the terms of any Cleared Transaction.
CDS Default Fund: The default fund established and maintained pursuant to TITLE IV, CHAPTER
4 for Cleared Transactions.
CDS Default Fund Amount: The amount of the CDS Default Fund as required pursuant to Article
4.4.1.2.
CDS Default Fund Calculation Amount: An amount equal to the CDS Default Fund Amount less
the aggregate of the Contribution Requirement for all of the Clearing Members in respect of whom
the initial calculation of their respective Contribution Requirement requires them to pay a
Contribution equal to the minimum contribution set out in Article 4.4.1.3.
CDS Default Management Committee: The committee which is set up by LCH.Clearnet SA in
accordance with the provisions of the CDS Default Management Process in order to assist
LCH.Clearnet SA with the development and implementation of:
(i)

the CDS Default Management Process; and

(ii)

any auction process to liquidate a Self Referencing Transaction and enter into an
equivalent Single Name Cleared Transaction.

CDS Default Management Group: The group which is set up by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance
with the provisions of the CDS Default Management Process in order to assist LCH.Clearnet SA,
in circumstances where:
(i)

an Event of Default has been declared by LCH.Clearnet SA as occurring in respect of a
Clearing Member, with the implementation of the CDS Default Management Process and
liquidation of Cleared Transactions in accordance with this CDS Clearing Rule Book; or

(ii)

an auction process pursuant to Section 9 of Part A or Part B, as applicable, of the CDS
Clearing Supplement, needs to be implemented to liquidate a Self Referencing
Transaction and enter into an equivalent Single Name Cleared Transaction.

CDS Default Management Process: The process in accordance with which LCH.Clearnet SA
and the CDS Default Management Group will manage a default of a Clearing Member (including,
to the extent appropriate, the CDS Client Clearing Default Management Process), as set out in
Appendix 1.
CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol: The protocol pursuant to which Disputes will be resolved.
CDS Global Cash Call Document: This term shall have the meaning set out in Section 5 of the
Procedures.
CDS Post-Default Period: The period specified in Article 4.4.3.3.
CDS Seller: A Clearing Member that is party to a Cleared Transaction as protection seller.
CDS Type: This term shall have the meaning set out in the CDS Clearing Supplement.
CEA: The U.S. Commodity Exchange Act, as amended.
CFTC: The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and any successor thereto.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

14

Published on 14 April 2016

CFTC Regulations: The rules and regulations promulgated by the CFTC.
Cleared Trades Report: This term shall have the meaning set out in Section 5 of the Procedures.
Cleared Transaction: A CCM Cleared Transaction or an FCM Cleared Transaction.
Clearing Day: Any day that is: (i) a Business Day; and (ii) a day on which commercial banks in
London are open for business.
Clearing Eligibility Report: The report containing the Weekly Backloading Transactions which is
made available by LCH.Clearnet SA to each Clearing Member at such time set out in Section 5 of
the Procedures.
Clearing Member: A CCM, an FCM Clearing Member, or both, as the context requires.
Clearing Member Novation Acceptance Time: The time when all relevant Clearing Members are
deemed to have accepted a Daily Backloading Transaction or Weekly Backloading Transaction for
clearing, where such Clearing Members indicate such deemed acceptance by meeting the
Morning Call on the relevant Daily Backloading Novation Day or Weekly Backloading Novation
Day, as applicable.
Clearing Member Termination Date: The date on which Membership Termination in respect of a
Clearing Member becomes effective in accordance with Article 2.4.2.1 or Article 2.4.2.2(ii).
Clearing Notice: Any notice issued by LCH.Clearnet SA from time to time which:
(i)

provides guidance to all or a particular category of Clearing Members on a matter of
interpretation in connection with this CDS Clearing Rule Book, the CDS Clearing
Supplement or the Procedures;

(ii)

notifies all Clearing Members of the existence or cessation of a Force Majeure Event
occurring with respect to LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Article 1.2.11.2 (ii) and
Article 1.2.11.2 (vi);

(iii)

notifies all Clearing Members of an LCH Default in accordance with Article 1.3.1.3;

(iv)

notifies all Clearing Members of the termination or suspension of a particular Clearing
Member’s membership of the CDS Clearing Service;

(v)

notifies all Clearing Members of the occurrence of an Event of Default in accordance with
Article 4.3.1.3; or

(vi)

such other Clearing Notices as may be required or contemplated by this CDS Clearing
Rule Book, the CDS Clearing Supplement or the Procedures.

Client: A CCM Client, an FCM Client, or both, as the context requires.
Client Account Structure: The CCM Client Account Structure or FCM Client Account Structure,
as the context requires.
Client Assets: Any Collateral transferred to LCH.Clearnet SA by a Clearing Member in respect of
Client Cleared Transactions or Relevant Client Cleared Transactions, as applicable, along with
accruals on such Client Cleared Transactions or Relevant Client Cleared Transactions (which
accruals shall, for the avoidance of doubt, include Variation Margin which is payable by
LCH.Clearnet SA to the Clearing Member in respect of the relevant Client Margin Account in
accordance with Section 2 of the Procedures), and recorded in a Client Collateral Account. For the
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

15

Published on 14 April 2016

avoidance of doubt, Client Assets constituting FCM Unallocated Client Excess Collateral are
subject to restrictions on transfer and use as provided in the CDS Clearing Rules.
Client Backloading Transaction: An existing CDS which:
(i)

is registered in the TIW;

(ii)

comprises one or more Client Trade Leg(s); and

(iii)

is submitted for clearing by the relevant ATSS Participants via an Approved Trade Source
System as part of the Daily Backloading Cycle.

Client Cleared Transaction: A Cleared Transaction registered in a Client Trade Account of a
Clearing Member.
Client Collateral Account: A CCM Client Collateral Account or an FCM Client Financial Account,
as the context requires.
Client Collateral Buffer: The CCM Client Collateral Buffer (carried within the CCM House
Account Structure) or the FCM Client Collateral Buffer (carried within the FCM Client Account
Structure), as the context requires.
Client Collateral Buffer Shortfall: The CCM Client Collateral Buffer Shortfall or the FCM Client
Collateral Buffer Shortfall, as the context requires.
Client Collateral Buffer Threshold: The CCM Client Collateral Buffer Threshold or the FCM
Client Collateral Buffer Threshold, as the context requires.
Client Excess Collateral: The CCM Client Excess Collateral or the FCM Client Excess Collateral,
as the context requires.
Client Margin Account: A CCM Client Margin Account or an FCM Client Margin Account, as the
context requires.
Client Margin Requirement: The CCM Client Margin Requirement or the FCM Client Margin
Requirement, as the context requires.
Client Margin Shortfall: A CCM Client Margin Shortfall or an FCM Client Margin Shortfall, as the
context requires.
Client Pledged Eligible Collateral: With respect to a CCM, the Pledged Eligible Collateral
recorded in each CCM Client Collateral Account of such CCM.
Client Termination Amount: The CCM Client Termination Amount or the FCM Client Termination
Amount.
Client Trade Account: A CCM Client Trade Account or an FCM Client Trade Account, as the
context requires.
Client Trade Leg: Any trade leg of a CDS in respect of which a Client acts as protection buyer or
protection seller.
Client Transaction Checks: With respect to an Intraday Transaction comprising one or more
Client Trade Leg(s) or a Client Backloading Transaction, the process undertaken by LCH.Clearnet
SA to ensure that a Nominated Clearing Member has consented, in the manner and form
prescribed by Section 5 of the Procedures, to the registration of the relevant Client Trade Leg, in
the relevant Client Trade Account(s) of such Nominated Clearing Member.
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

16

Published on 14 April 2016

Client Variation Margin Requirement: For each Client Margin Account of a Clearing Member, the
amount of Variation Margin calculated by LCH.Clearnet SA as being payable:
(i)

by such Clearing Member to LCH.Clearnet SA; or

(ii)

by LCH.Clearnet SA to such Clearing Member

on the basis of the Open Positions in the relevant Client Margin Account, in accordance with
Section 2 of the Procedures.
CM Backloading Transaction: An existing CDS which:
(i)

is registered in the TIW;

(ii)

comprises two House Trade Leg(s); and

(iii)

is submitted for clearing by the relevant ATSS Participants via an Approved Trade Source
System as part of the Daily Backloading Cycle.

Collateral: Any Eligible Collateral and/or Cash Collateral.
Collateral Account: A House Collateral Account, a Client Collateral Account, or a Buffer Collateral
Account, or a CCM Unallocated Client Collateral Account as the case may be.
Collateral Call: A request by LCH.Clearnet SA to a Clearing Member for an amount of Collateral
calculated by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with the CDS Clearing Documentation, such
Collateral to be delivered by such Clearing Member to LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with
Section 3 of the Procedures.
Combined Unmargined Risk: The maximum value of the two highest daily Member Uncovered
Risks over the last sixty Clearing Days, plus a buffer equal to 10 percent.
Competent Authority: Other than for LCH.Clearnet SA, any authority which:
(i)

is recognised as such by a Person’s home Member State under the terms of the Banking
Consolidation Directive or MiFID; or

(ii)

has concluded a cooperation agreement with the French Competent Authorities in respect
of exercising a regulatory or supervisory function under the laws of any jurisdiction to
which a Person is subject,

and for LCH.Clearnet SA, each of the AMF, the Autorité de Contrôle Prudentiel et de Résolution,
the Banque de France, the European Securities and Markets Authority, the United Kingdom
Prudential Regulation Authority and Financial Conduct Authority, the CFTC, any successor body of
any of the foregoing and any other body which has concluded a cooperation agreement with the
AMF, the Autorité de Contrôle Prudentiel et de Résolution, the Banque de France in respect of
exercising a regulatory or supervisory function under the laws of any jurisdiction and designated as
such by LCH.Clearnet SA from time to time.
Concentration Risk Margin: The amount calculated by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with
Section 2 of the Procedures.
Contingency Variation Margin: The amount calculated by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with
Section 2 of the Procedures.
Contribution: With respect to each Clearing Member, an amount calculated by LCH.Clearnet SA
in accordance with Article 4.4.1.3 and payable by each Clearing Member to LCH.Clearnet SA to
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

17

Published on 14 April 2016

fund the CDS Default Fund (and, for the avoidance of doubt, excluding any Additional Contribution
Amount of such Clearing Member).
Contribution Balance: The aggregate value of Collateral (determined in accordance with Section
3 of the Procedures) deposited by a Clearing Member with LCH.Clearnet SA to satisfy its
Contribution Requirement.
Contribution Excess: The amount, if any, by which a Clearing Member’s Contribution Balance
exceeds its Contribution Requirement.
Contribution Requirement: The aggregate of a Clearing Member’s Contribution and its Additional
Contribution Amount, if applicable.
Contribution Shortfall: The amount, if any, by which a Clearing Member’s Contribution
Requirement exceeds the Contribution Balance.
Credit Derivatives Determinations Committee: This term shall have the meaning set out in the
ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions.
Credit Event: In respect of any Cleared Transaction, as defined under the terms of such Cleared
Transaction incorporating the ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions.
Credit Event Margin: The amount calculated by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Section 2 of
the Procedures.
Credit Event Notice: In respect of any Cleared Transaction, as defined under the terms of such
Cleared Transaction incorporating the ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions.
Credit Institution: Any credit institution as defined in the Banking Consolidation Directive.
Credit Quality Margin: The amount calculated by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Section 2
of the Procedures.
Daily Backloading Novation Day: With respect to a Daily Backloading Transaction, the Clearing
Day immediately following the Business Day on which such Daily Backloading Transaction has
been submitted for clearing to LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with ‎Article 3.1.2.2.
Daily Backloading Cycle: The process operated by LCH.Clearnet SA, in accordance with ‎Section
3.1.2, pursuant to which Daily Backloading Transactions are submitted for clearing.
Daily Backloading Transaction: A Client Backloading Transaction or a CM Backloading
Transaction, as the case may be.
Damage: Any damage, loss, cost or expense of whatsoever nature.
Data Protection Law: Any legislation in force from time to time which implements the Directive
95/46/EC and Directive 2002/58/EC and any other similar applicable national privacy law, which
applies to the business activities of LCH.Clearnet SA.
DC Credit Event Announcement: This term shall have the meaning given to such term for the
purposes of the applicable Cleared Transaction.
Deemed Client Transaction: This term shall have the meaning given in Article 5.1.1.3(ii).
Default Notice: A notice issued by LCH.Clearnet SA to a Clearing Member following a
determination that an Event of Default has occurred or is occurring in respect of such Clearing
Member, including where that notice takes the form of an Automatic Early Termination Event
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

18

Published on 14 April 2016

Stipulation and that such Clearing Member will henceforth be treated as a Defaulting Clearing
Member.
Defaulting Clearing Member: Any Clearing Member in respect of which an Event of Default has
been declared by LCH.Clearnet SA.
Defaulting Clearing Member Termination Date: The date notified as such to a Defaulting
Clearing Member by LCH.Clearnet SA in the Default Notice.
Delegation: The délégation de créance imparfaite mechanism governed by articles 1275 et seq.
of the French Civil Code, as described in ‎Article 5.1.2.2.
Derivatives Clearing Organization: A derivatives clearing organization as defined in Section 1a
(15) of the CEA and registered as such with the CFTC.
Disciplinary Proceedings: Proceedings established pursuant to Section 8 of the Procedures,
under which LCH.Clearnet SA shall investigate and, where it considers appropriate, take action
against a Clearing Member following any breaches or alleged breaches of the CDS Clearing
Documentation.
Dispute: This term shall have the meaning set out in the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol.
DTCC: The Warehouse Trust Company LLC, a subsidiary of the US Depository Trust and Clearing
Corporation, and any successor thereto.
DTCC Matching and Eligibility Report: The report containing the Eligible Weekly Backloading
Transactions for each Clearing Member which is made available by LCH.Clearnet SA to each
Clearing Member, at the time and in the manner set out in Section 5 of the Procedures.
Early Termination Trigger Date: The date specified in Clause 8.1 of the CDS Default
Management Process.
EEA: The European Economic Area.
Eligibility Controls: The consistency checks and functional controls performed by LCH.Clearnet
SA in accordance with Section 4 of the Procedures including:
(i)

checking to ensure the completeness of the information required by LCH.Clearnet SA as
previously notified to Clearing Members to process the Transaction Data and novate the
Original Transaction pursuant to and in accordance with the CDS Clearing Rules and the
CDS Clearing Supplement; and

(ii)

determining whether such Original Transaction meets the Eligibility Requirements.

Eligibility Requirements: The requirements described in Section 4 of the Procedures with which
Original Transactions must comply in order to be eligible for clearing by LCH.Clearnet SA.
Eligible Collateral: Such securities and other types of non Cash Collateral as are set out in
Section 3 of the Procedures as being acceptable by LCH.Clearnet SA for the purposes of
satisfying a Clearing Member’s Margin Requirements and/or novating Original Transactions, as
applicable.
Eligible Currency: Cash in such currencies as are set out in Section 3 of the Procedures as being
acceptable by LCH.Clearnet SA as Cash Collateral.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

19

Published on 14 April 2016

Eligible Index Version: The version of a credit default swap index identified in accordance with
Section 4 of the Procedures and in respect of which LCH.Clearnet SA provides CDS Clearing
Services.
Eligible Intraday Transaction: An Intraday Transaction which passes the Eligibility Controls and
the Client Transaction Checks (if applicable), pursuant to and in accordance with Article 3.1.4.4.
Eligible Reference Entity: A Reference Entity identified in accordance with Section 4 of the
Procedures and in respect of which LCH.Clearnet SA provides CDS Clearing Services.
Eligible Weekly Backloading Transaction: A Weekly Backloading Transaction which:
(i)

has passed the Eligibility Controls; and

(ii)

has been selected by each of the relevant Clearing Members to be included in the Weekly
Backloading Cycle in accordance with Section 5 of the Procedures.

EMIR: Regulation (EU) No. 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July
2012 on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories and all delegated
regulatory and implementing technical standards adopted pursuant to Regulation (EU) No.
648/2012 and published in the Official Journal of the European Union from time to time.
End of Day: 19.30 on each Price Contribution Day.
End of Day Contributed Price: For each type of CDS meeting the Eligibility Requirements and
identical in all material aspects other than the Notional Amount, the price/spread provided by the
Index Publisher to LCH.Clearnet SA for such CDS and resulting from the Market Data.
End of Real Time: 19.00 on each Clearing Day.
Euro: The Euro.
Eurosystem Central Bank: The European Central Bank and any of the national central banks of
the European Union Member States that have adapted the Euro as their common currency.
Event: Any of the events listed in Article 4.3.1.1 occurring in respect of a Clearing Member.
Event of Default: An Event that LCH.Clearnet SA has determined, pursuant to Article 4.3.1.1 and
Article 4.3.1.2, should constitute an event of default and in respect of which a Default Notice is
issued.
Excess Collateral: The CCM Excess Collateral or the FCM House Excess Collateral.
Excess Collateral Threshold: The CCM Excess Collateral Threshold or the FCM House Excess
Collateral Threshold.
Extraordinary Margin: The amount calculated by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Section 2
of the Procedures.
Extreme Market Developments: Any one of the following:
(i)

an occurrence or circumstance that threatens or may threaten the fair and orderly clearing,
settlement or liquidation of, or in respect of, Cleared Transactions (whether generally or in
respect of a particular category of Cleared Transactions) or the continuity or proper and
sound functioning of the CDS Clearing Service;

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

20

Published on 14 April 2016

(ii)

a suspension to trading on markets of CDS or other financial instruments relevant to the
price or value of CDS or any other form of market disruption which makes the proper
determination of the End of Day Contributed Price impossible or impractical; and/or

(iii)

any occurrence or circumstance that would negatively impact any financial market relevant
to the CDS Clearing Service by introducing an unacceptable level of uncertainty, volatility
or risk in respect of any or all Cleared Transactions or to the CDS Clearing Service;

and, in each case, the result of which makes it impractical for LCH.Clearnet SA to continue to
operate the CDS Clearing Service in accordance with the CDS Clearing Documentation while
satisfactorily managing its risks. For the avoidance of doubt, an event may constitute an Extreme
Market Development even if it affects only one Clearing Member or a group of Clearing Members.
Failed Backloading Clearing Member: Any Clearing Member that is subject to a Backloading
Failure.
Fallback Settlement Method: This term shall have the meaning set out in the ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions.
FCM: A legal entity that is a futures commission merchant, as defined under CFTC Regulation
1.3(p) (or any successor or replacement regulation), and is registered in such capacity with the
CFTC and a member in good standing of the NFA.
FCM Allocated Client Collateral Buffer: The portion of the FCM Client Collateral Buffer which, at
the relevant time, is allocated to an FCM Client Margin Account in accordance with Article 4.2.2.4
and Section 2 of the Procedures.
FCM Available Client Collateral Buffer: The portion of the FCM Client Collateral Buffer which, at
the relevant time, is not allocated to any FCM Client Margin Account and is available to be used to
enable the novation of Client Trade Legs.
FCM Buffer Financial Account: A segregated account opened in the books of LCH.Clearnet SA
to record the value of an FCM Clearing Member’s FCM Client Collateral Buffer.
FCM CDS Clearing Regulations: The document issued by LCH.Clearnet SA and entitled "FCM
CDS Clearing Regulations," as amended from time to time.
FCM Cleared Transaction: A CDS between LCH.Clearnet SA and an FCM Clearing Member as
1
agent for the account of an FCM Client (as described in FCM CDS Clearing Regulation 1(c)),
registered in the relevant FCM Client Trade Account of such FCM Clearing Member, or as principal
for its own account, registered in the FCM House Trade Account of such FCM Clearing Member,
and resulting from:
(i)

the novation of an FCM Original Transaction;

(ii)

the creation of a Spin-off Single Name Cleared Transaction, a Restructuring Cleared
Transaction, a Resulting Single Name Cleared Transaction or a Physically Settled Cleared
Transaction (where applicable) pursuant to the CDS Clearing Supplement;

(iii)

the compression of existing FCM Cleared Transactions to a single FCM Cleared
Transaction pursuant to TITLE III, Chapter 3;

1

Note to reader: the use of the term “agent” is required by the CFTC Regulations and does not refer to any specific legal
category under French law.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

21

Published on 14 April 2016

(iv)

LCH.Clearnet SA entering into hedging transactions with an FCM Clearing Member
pursuant to the CDS Default Management Process;

(v)

the transfer of FCM Cleared Transactions or Porting FCM Cleared Transactions in
accordance with Section 3.4.1;

(vi)

the Porting of FCM Cleared Transactions in accordance with the CDS Default
Management Process; or

(vii)

LCH.Clearnet SA and a Backup Clearing Member entering into a new contract on
equivalent terms to a terminated FCM Cleared Transaction as part of Porting pursuant to
the CDS Default Management Process.

FCM Clearing Member: Any FCM that has been admitted as a clearing member in accordance
with the CDS Clearing Rules and is a party to the CDS Admission Agreement and which has not
elected to become a CCM.
FCM Client: A client of an FCM Clearing Member to which the FCM Clearing Member provides
CDS Client Clearing Services and that is an eligible contract participant as defined in Section
1a(18) of the CEA, other than subparagraph (C) thereof, or as may be further defined by CFTC
Regulations, with positions in Cleared Swaps (as that term is defined in CFTC Regulation 22.1),
including FCM Cleared Transactions, on behalf of which the FCM Clearing Member provides the
CDS Clearing Services described in Title VI and clears FCM Cleared Transactions; provided that
any such client is only an FCM Client with respect to its positions in Cleared Swaps (as that term is
defined in CFTC Regulation 22.1). For the avoidance of doubt, if an Affiliate of an FCM Clearing
Member, which Affiliate is also registered with the CFTC as an FCM, carries Cleared Swaps on
behalf of Cleared Swaps Customers (as that term is defined in CFTC Regulation 22.1) and
maintains an omnibus account with such FCM Clearing Member to clear Cleared Swaps on behalf
of such Cleared Swaps Customers, such omnibus account shall be considered an FCM Client for
purposes of the CDS Clearing Rules.
FCM Client Account Structure: The FCM Client Trade Account(s), FCM Client Margin
Account(s), FCM Client Financial Account(s), FCM Buffer Financial Account, FCM Unallocated
Client Collateral Financial Account and FCM Client Collateral Account registered in the CDS
Clearing System in the name of an FCM Clearing Member as described in TITLE VI, CHAPTER 2.
FCM Client Collateral Account: An account opened in the books of LCH.Clearnet SA to record
the Collateral held by LCH.Clearnet SA for the benefit of an FCM Clearing Member’s FCM Clients,
the aggregate value of such Collateral being divided amongst, and recorded in:
(i)

the FCM Client Financial Account(s);

(ii)

the FCM Buffer Financial Account; and

(iii)

the FCM Unallocated Client Collateral Financial Account.

FCM Client Collateral Buffer: The aggregate value of Collateral transferred by an FCM Clearing
Member to LCH.Clearnet SA, comprising such FCM Clearing Member’s own property, and
recorded in such FCM Clearing Members FCM Buffer Financial Account which may be used by
LCH.Clearnet SA to meet obligations in respect of the Cleared Transactions of the FCM Clients of
such FCM Clearing Member, including for the purpose of satisfying the Notional and Collateral
Checks performed by LCH.Clearnet SA in respect of Eligible Intraday Transactions comprising one
or more Client Trade Leg(s). For the avoidance of doubt, the FCM Client Collateral Buffer
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

22

Published on 14 April 2016

constitutes Cleared Swaps Customer Collateral as that term is defined in CFTC Regulation 22.1
(or any successor or replacement regulation).
FCM Client Collateral Buffer Shortfall: The amount (if any) by which the FCM Client Collateral
Buffer Threshold exceeds the FCM Client Collateral Buffer.
FCM Client Collateral Buffer Threshold: The minimum value of Collateral which an FCM
Clearing Member wishes to maintain as FCM Client Collateral Buffer.
FCM Client Excess Collateral: The amount of any FCM Excess Collateral attributable to an FCM
Client Margin Account.
FCM Client Financial Account: A segregated account opened in the books of LCH.Clearnet SA
for each FCM Client of the FCM Clearing Member to record the Legally Segregated Value of such
FCM Client as determined by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with the CDS Clearing Rules.
FCM Client Margin Account: An account opened by LCH.Clearnet SA in the name of an FCM
Clearing Member for the benefit of an FCM Client in the CDS Clearing System for risk
management purposes, in which the FCM Cleared Transactions of the FCM Client are netted and
corresponding Open Positions are registered, and any FCM Client related positions corresponding
to Eligible Intraday Transactions and Irrevocable Backloading Transactions pre-registered in the
Account Structure of such FCM Clearing Member (if so applicable pursuant to Section 3.1.7 are
recorded, in order to calculate the FCM Client Margin Requirement and Client Variation Margin
Requirement of the FCM Clearing Member in respect of such FCM Client.
FCM Client Margin Requirement: With respect to each FCM Client Margin Account of an FCM
Clearing Member, an amount equal to:
(i)

for all purposes other than the Morning Call: the aggregate of the Margins (other than
Variation Margin and Credit Quality Margin), calculated by LCH.Clearnet SA on the basis
of the Open Positions registered in such FCM Client Margin Account of the FCM plus any
positions corresponding to Eligible Intraday Transactions pre-registered in accordance with
‎Section 3.1.7; and

(ii)

for the purposes of the Morning Call: the higher of the following two amounts:
(a)

the aggregate of the Margins (other than Variation Margin and Credit Quality
Margin) in respect of the Open Positions registered in such FCM Client Margin
Account; or

(b)

the aggregate of the Margins (other than Variation Margin and Credit Quality
Margin) in respect of the Open Positions registered in such FCM Client Margin
Account plus any positions corresponding to Irrevocable Backloading Transactions
which are not Rejected Transactions and/or Cleared Transactions which are preregistered in accordance with ‎Section 3.1.7.

FCM Client Margin Shortfall: With respect to an FCM Client Margin Account of an FCM Clearing
Member, the amount by which the FCM Client Margin Requirement for such FCM Client Margin
Account exceeds the FCM Margin Balance of the associated FCM Client Financial Account, if any.
FCM Client Termination Amount: For the purpose of Title I, Chapter 3, any net positive or
negative amount, denominated in Euro and determined pursuant to and in accordance with Article
1.3.1.9(ii)(b).

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

23

Published on 14 April 2016

FCM Client Trade Account: An account opened by LCH.Clearnet SA in the name of an FCM
Clearing Member for the benefit of an FCM Client in order to register all Cleared Transactions
cleared by such FCM Clearing Member in relation to such FCM Client.
FCM Excess Collateral: The amount (if any) by which the FCM Margin Balance exceeds the
Margin Requirement for any Margin Account of an FCM Clearing Member.
FCM House Cleared Transaction: Any FCM Cleared Transaction registered in the House Trade
Account of an FCM Clearing Member.
FCM House Collateral Account: A house account opened in the books of LCH.Clearnet SA to
record:
(i)

Collateral provided by an FCM Clearing Member for the purpose of satisfying its FCM
House Margin Requirement; and

(ii)

FCM House Excess Collateral.

FCM House Excess Collateral: The amount of any FCM Excess Collateral attributable to an FCM
House Margin Account.
FCM House Excess Collateral Shortfall: The amount (if any) by which the FCM House Excess
Collateral Threshold exceeds the FCM House Excess Collateral.
FCM House Excess Collateral Threshold: The minimum amount of Collateral that an FCM
Clearing Member wishes to maintain as FCM House Excess Collateral in its FCM House Collateral
Account.
FCM House Margin Account: An account opened by LCH.Clearnet SA in the name of an FCM
Clearing Member in the CDS Clearing System for risk management purposes, in which FCM
House Cleared Transactions are netted and corresponding Open Positions are registered, and any
house positions corresponding to Eligible Intraday Transactions and Irrevocable Backloading
Transactions pre-registered in the Account Structure of such FCM Clearing Member (if so
applicable pursuant to Section 3.1.7) are recorded, in order to calculate the FCM House Margin
Requirement and House Variation Margin Requirement of the relevant FCM Clearing Member.
FCM House Margin Requirement: With respect to the FCM House Margin Account of each FCM
Clearing Member, an amount equal to:
(i)

for all purposes other than the Morning Call, the aggregate of the Margins (other than
Variation Margin) calculated by LCH.Clearnet SA on the basis of the Open Positions
registered in such FCM House Margin Account plus any positions corresponding to
Eligible Intraday Transactions pre-registered in accordance with ‎Section 3.1.7; and

(ii)

for the purposes of the Morning Call, the higher of the following amounts:
(a)

the aggregate of the Margins (other than Variation Margin) in respect of the Open
Positions registered in such Margin Account; or

(b)

the aggregate of the Margins (other than Variation Margin) in respect of the Open
Positions registered in such CCM House Margin Account plus any positions
corresponding to Irrevocable Backloading Transactions which are not Rejected
Transactions.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

24

Published on 14 April 2016

FCM House Margin Shortfall: With respect to a FCM House Margin Account of an FCM, the
amount by which the FCM House Margin Requirement for such FCM House Margin Account
exceeds the FCM Margin Balance of the associated FCM House Collateral Account, if any.
FCM Margin Balance: With respect to:
(i)

the FCM House Margin Account of an FCM Clearing Member, the aggregate value of
Collateral transferred to LCH.Clearnet SA recorded in the corresponding FCM House
Collateral Account; and

(ii)

an FCM Client Margin Account of an FCM Clearing Member, the Legally Segregated Value
that LCH.Clearnet SA ascribes to, and records in, the FCM Client Financial Account
attached to such FCM Client Margin Account in accordance with Section 2 of the
Procedures.

FCM Required Collateral Amount: For each FCM Clearing Member, the sum of:
(i)

the FCM House Margin Shortfall;

(ii)

the FCM House Excess Collateral Shortfall;

(iii)

the FCM Client Buffer Collateral Shortfall; and

(iv)

the Total Client Margin Shortfall.

FCM Unallocated Client Excess Collateral: This term has the meaning set out in Article
6.2.5.1(ii).
FCM Unallocated Client Collateral Financial Account: A segregated account opened in the
books of LCH.Clearnet SA to record the value of FCM Unallocated Client Excess Collateral as
determined by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Article 6.2.5.1 and Section 3 of the
Procedures.
Final Settlement Notice: The notice delivered by LCH.Clearnet SA to a Defaulting Clearing
Member pursuant to Article 4.3.3.4.
Financial Group: A Person shall belong to the same Financial Group as:
(i)

any entity controlled, directly or indirectly by the Person;

(ii)

any entity that controls, directly or indirectly, the Person; or

(iii)

any entity directly or indirectly under common control with the Person.

For this purpose, "control" of any entity or Person means ownership of a majority of the voting
power of the entity or Person.
First Intraday Call: The Collateral Call performed on each Business Day at the time specified in
Section 2 of the Procedures for an amount of collateral determined in accordance with Section
4.2.3 and Section 2 of the Procedures.
Fixed Amount: This term shall have the meaning given to it pursuant to the relevant Index
Cleared Transaction Confirmation or Single Name Cleared Transaction Confirmation, as
applicable.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

25

Published on 14 April 2016

Fixed Rate Payer: This term shall have the meaning given to it pursuant to the relevant Index
Cleared Transaction Confirmation or Single Name Cleared Transaction Confirmation, as
applicable.
Floating Rate Payer: This term shall have the meaning given to it pursuant to the relevant Index
Cleared Transaction Confirmation or Single Name Cleared Transaction Confirmation, as
applicable.
Force Majeure Event: Any extraordinary event that cannot be foreseen or avoided, which is
outside the control of LCH.Clearnet SA or the relevant Clearing Member, as applicable, and which
hinders or prevents the performance in whole or in part of any of their obligations under the CDS
Clearing Documentation and, in relation to any obligation under the CDS Clearing Supplement that
is part of the terms and conditions of a Cleared Transaction and where such obligation has not yet
fallen due, such an occurrence that would hinder or prevent performance in whole or in part of any
of their obligations thereunder were the occurrence or effects of the occurrence to continue until
the date of performance of the relevant obligations, including but not limited to: fire, flood, storm,
hurricanes, earthquakes, explosions, strokes of lightening, international conflicts, hostilities,
terrorist action, civil unrest, war, embargoes, the unavailability or impairment of computer or data
processing facilities, the failure of any external systems, including but not limited to any Approved
Trade Source System, (and in respect of DTCC, after giving effect to any applicable provision,
disruption fallback or remedy specified in, or pursuant to, the CDS Clearing Supplement),
TARGET2 and Illegality.
Former Clearing Member: A Person who was a Clearing Member prior to Membership
Termination.
Global House Termination Amount: For the purpose of TITLE I, Chapter 3, the single, net
positive or negative amount, denominated in Euro and determined pursuant to and in accordance
with Article 1.3.1.9.
Gold Record: The Transaction Data in respect of a trade leg of a CDS which references an
Eligible Index Version or an Eligible Reference Entity, as the case may be.
Gold Records File: The file received by LCH.Clearnet SA from DTCC which contains the Gold
Records.
Governmental Authority: Any de facto or de jure government or any agency, instrumentality,
ministry or department thereof.
House Account Structure: The House Trade Account, House Margin Account and House
Collateral Account registered in the CDS Clearing System in the name of a Clearing Member as
described in TITLE III, CHAPTER 2.
House Cleared Transaction: Any Cleared Transaction registered in the House Trade Account of
a Clearing Member.
House Collateral Account: A CCM House Collateral Account or an FCM House Collateral
Account, as the context requires.
House Excess Collateral: CCM House Excess Collateral or FCM House Excess Collateral, as
the context requires.
House Excess Collateral Shortfall: The CCM House Excess Collateral Shortfall or the FCM
House Excess Collateral Shortfall, as the context requires.
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

26

Published on 14 April 2016

House Excess Collateral Threshold: The CCM House Excess Collateral Threshold or the FCM
House Excess Collateral Threshold, as the context requires.
House Margin Account: A CCM House Margin Account or an FCM House Margin Account, as the
context requires.
House Margin Requirement: The CCM House Margin Requirement or the FCM House Margin
Requirement, as the context requires.
House Margin Shortfall: A CCM House Margin Shortfall or an FCM House Margin Shortfall, as
the context requires.
House Termination Amount: For the purpose of TITLE I, Chapter 3, the single, net positive or
negative amount, denominated in Euro and determined pursuant to and in accordance with Article
1.3.1.9(i).
House Trade Account: An account opened by LCH.Clearnet SA at the request and in the name of
a Clearing Member within the Account Structure of the Clearing Member in the CDS Clearing
System in order to register Cleared Transactions cleared by such Clearing Member for its own
account.
House Trade Leg: Any trade leg of a CDS in respect of which a Clearing Member acts as
protection buyer or protection seller.
House Variation Margin Requirement: The amount of Variation Margin calculated by
LCH.Clearnet SA as being payable:
(i)

by a Clearing Member to LCH.Clearnet SA; or

(ii)

by LCH.Clearnet SA to a Clearing Member,

on the basis of the Open Positions registered in the relevant Clearing Member's House Margin
Account, in accordance with Section 2 of the Procedures.
Illegality: After giving effect to any applicable provision, disruption fallback or remedy specified in,
or pursuant to, the CDS Clearing Supplement, due to an event or circumstance (other than any
action taken by a party occurring after a Cleared Transaction is entered into), it becomes unlawful
under any applicable law (including without limitation the laws of any country in which payment,
delivery or compliance is required by either party as the case may be), on any day, or it would be
unlawful if the relevant payment, delivery or compliance were required on that day (in each case,
other than as a result of circumstances where a party would not have used all reasonable efforts to
maintain in full force and effect all consents of any Governmental Authority that are required to be
obtained by it with respect to the CDS Clearing Documentation or would not have used all
reasonable efforts to obtain any that may become necessary in the future) for the Office through
which such party makes and receives payments or deliveries with respect to such Cleared
Transaction to perform any absolute or contingent obligation to make a payment or delivery in
respect of such Cleared Transaction, to receive a payment or delivery in respect of such Cleared
Transaction or to comply with any other material provision of the CDS Clearing Documentation
relating to such Cleared Transaction.
Index Cleared Transaction: This term shall have the meaning set out in the CDS Clearing
Supplement.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

27

Published on 14 April 2016

Index Cleared Transaction Confirmation: This term shall have the meaning set out in the CDS
Clearing Supplement.
Index Publisher: For the iTraxx® Europe Indices and Markit CDX™ Indices, Markit Group Limited
or any successor thereto or any replacement then appointed by the Index Sponsor for purposes of
officially publishing the relevant index.
Index Sponsor: For the iTraxx® Europe Indices, Markit Indices Limited, and for the Markit CDX™
Indices, Markit North America Inc., or any successor thereto.
Initial Margin: The amount calculated by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Section 2 of the
Procedures.
Initial Margin Floor: An amount representing the minimum level of Initial Margin, calculated in
accordance with Section 2 of the Procedures by LCH.Clearnet SA, payable by Clearing Members
and notified to Clearing Members generally from time to time.
Initial Payment Amount: This term shall have the meaning given to it pursuant to the relevant
Index Cleared Transaction Confirmation or Single Name Cleared Transaction Confirmation.
Insolvency Proceeding: Where a Clearing Member or, as applicable, any related Parent:
(i)

is dissolved (other than pursuant to a consolidation, amalgamation or merger);

(ii)

becomes insolvent or unable to pay its debts or fails or admits in writing in a judicial,
regulatory or administrative proceeding or filing its inability generally to pay its debts as
they become due;

(iii)

makes a general assignment, arrangement or composition with or for the benefit of its
creditors;

(iv)

institutes or has instituted against it a proceeding seeking judgment of insolvency or
bankruptcy or any other relief under any bankruptcy or insolvency law or other similar law
affecting creditors’ rights or a petition is presented for its winding-up or liquidation and in
the case of any such proceeding or petition instituted or presented against it, such
proceeding or petition: (a) results in a judgment of insolvency or bankruptcy, or the entry of
an order for relief, or the making of an order for winding-up or liquidation; or (b) is not
dismissed, discharged, stayed or restrained in each case within thirty calendar days of the
institution or presentation thereof;

(v)

has a resolution passed for its winding-up, official management or liquidation (other than
pursuant to a consolidation, amalgamation or merger);

(vi)

seeks or becomes subject to the appointment of an administrator, provisional liquidator,
conservator, receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for it or for all or
substantially all of its assets;

(vii)

has a secured party take possession of all or substantially all its assets, or has a distress,
execution, attachment, sequestration or other legal process levied, enforced or sued on or
against all or substantially all its assets and such secured party maintains possession, or
any such process is not dismissed, discharged, stayed or restrained in each case within
thirty calendar days thereafter; or

(viii)

causes or is subject to any event with respect to it which, under Applicable Law, has an
analogous effect to any of the events specified in paragraphs (i) to (vii) above.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

28

Published on 14 April 2016

Interest Rate Risk Margin: The amount calculated by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with
Section 2 of the Procedures.
Intraday Call: The First Intraday Call or the Second Intraday Call, as the case may be.
Intraday Call Reports: This term shall have the meaning set out in Section 5 of the Procedures.
Intraday Novation Margin Requirement: With respect to any Margin Account, an amount equal
to the aggregate of the Margins (other than Variation Margin), calculated by LCH.Clearnet SA on
the basis of the position corresponding to the relevant trade leg of the Eligible Intraday Transaction
pre-registered in accordance with Section 3.1.7 after taking into account the effects of netting, if
any, with the Open positions already registered in such Margin Account.
Intraday Transaction: A CDS which:
(i)

has been entered into between two ATSS Participants; and

(ii)

is submitted for clearing to LCH.Clearnet SA by the relevant ATSS Participants through an
Approved Trade Source System in accordance with Section 3.1.4.

Investment Firm: An investment firm as defined in MiFID.
Irrevocable Backloading Transaction: An Irrevocable Weekly Backloading Transaction or an
Irrevocable Daily Backloading Transaction, as the case may be.
Irrevocable Daily Backloading Transaction: Any Daily Backloading Transaction in respect of
which the relevant Clearing Members are deemed to have given, at such time set out in Article
3.1.2.3, their irrevocable agreement for the novation by LCH.Clearnet SA of such Daily
Backloading Transaction.
Irrevocable Weekly Backloading Transaction: Any Eligible Weekly Backloading Transaction in
respect of which the relevant Clearing Members are deemed to have given, at such time set out in
Section 5 of the Procedures, their irrevocable agreement for the novation by LCH.Clearnet SA of
such Eligible Weekly Backloading Transaction.
ISDA: The International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., and any successor thereto.
ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions: The 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions or the 2014
ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions, as applicable.
iTraxx® Europe Indices: Each of the series and versions of iTraxx® indices published on the
Website, in accordance with Section 4 of the Procedures. Information about these indices and
their publication, composition, weighting and calculation is available on the website of the Index
Publisher (www.markit.com).
LCH Businesses: This term shall have the meaning set out in Article 4.3.3.1.
LCH.Clearnet SA: The commercial name of "Banque Centrale de Compensation", a clearing
house as defined by Article L. 440-1 of the French Monetary and Financial Code (Code monétaire
et financier) complying with Title IV of Book V of the general regulations of the AMF.
LCH.Clearnet SA Contribution: An amount of Euro 20 million.
LCH Approved Outsourcing Agent: A person designated as such by LCH.Clearnet SA.
LCH Default: The occurrence of any of the events listed in Article 1.3.1.1, provided notice is
provided pursuant to Article 1.3.1.2.
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

29

Published on 14 April 2016

LCH Default Date: The date on which a notice given to LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to Article
1.3.1.2 is deemed delivered to LCH.Clearnet SA as provided in Article 1.2.5.4.
LCH Default Payment Date: The day 27 Clearing Days after the Termination Date, unless
otherwise set out in accordance with Article 1.3.1.9 or amended by LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to
Article 1.3.1.10.
LCH Default Time: The time at which a notice given to LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to Article
1.3.1.2 is deemed delivered to LCH.Clearnet SA as provided in Article 1.2.5.4 and in the event that
notices are received from more than one Affected Clearing Member, the first of those notices.
LCH Insolvency Proceeding: For the purpose of TITLE I, Chapter 3, where a safeguard
procedure (procédure de sauvegarde), judicial reorganisation procedure (procédure de
redressement judiciaire) or winding-up procedure (procédure de liquidation judiciaire) is formally
opened by a French court against LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with French applicable law and
the judgment opening such LCH Insolvency Proceeding has been duly notified by the registry of
the relevant French court in accordance with the provisions of the French Commercial Code or
duly published in accordance with the provisions of the French Commercial Code.
Legally Segregated Value: With respect to an FCM Clearing Member, the value determined by
LCH.Clearnet SA, at the times and in the manner set out in Section 2.2(f) of the Procedures, for
each FCM Client Margin Account of such FCM Clearing Member, based on the aggregate value of
the Collateral (excluding FCM Client Collateral Buffer) transferred by the FCM Clearing Member to
LCH.Clearnet SA to meet the FCM Clearing Member’s Total Client Margin Requirement.
Loss Distribution Period: The period set out in Clause 1.1 of the CDS Default Management
Process.
Loss Distribution Process: The process set out in Clause 7 of the CDS Default Management
Process.
Mandatory Client Clearing Provisions: The provisions set out in Article 5.1.1.3.
Mandatory Indirect Client Clearing Provisions: The provisions set out in Article 5.1.3.2.
Margin: Any margin, including Initial Margin, Additional Margin, Short Charge Margin, SelfReferencing Protection Margin, Recovery Risk Margin, Interest Rate Risk Margin, Wrong Way Risk
Margin, Accrued Fixed Amount Liquidation Risk Margin, Credit Event Margin, Variation Margin,
Credit Quality Margin, Extraordinary Margin, Concentration Risk Margin and Contingency Variation
Margin that LCH.Clearnet SA calculates to be payable by a Clearing Member in accordance with
the terms of this CDS Clearing Rule Book and the Procedures.
Margin Account: A House Margin Account or a Client Margin Account, as the case may be, of a
CCM or FCM Clearing Member.
Margin Account Uncovered Risk: In respect of any Business Day, the stress-tested potential
loss that would be incurred on that Business Day in relation to the Open Positions that are
registered in a Clearing Member’s Margin Account, calculated in accordance with the methodology
established by LCH.Clearnet SA.
Margin Balance: The CCM Margin Balance or the FCM Margin Balance, as the context requires.
Margin Repayment Amount: This term has the meaning set out in Clause 8.5 of the CDS Default
Management Process.
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

30

Published on 14 April 2016

Margin Requirement: The House Margin Requirement or any Client Margin Requirement , as
applicable.
Margin Shortfall: The House Margin Shortfall or the Client Margin Shortfall, as the case may be.
Market Data: With respect to the Open Positions of a Clearing Member, the daily prices of such
Open Positions which are provided to LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Section 5 of the
Procedures.
Markit CDX™ Indices: Each of the series and versions of Markit CDX™ indices published on the
Website, in accordance with Section 4 of the Procedures. Information about these indices and
their publication, composition, weighting and calculation is available on the website of the Index
Publisher (www.markit.com).
Markit LCH Settlement Price: This term shall have the meaning given in Article 4.2.7.1.
Matched Buyer: This term shall have the meaning set out in the CDS Clearing Supplement.
Matched Pair: This term shall have the meaning set out in the CDS Clearing Supplement.
Matched Seller: This term shall have the meaning set out in the CDS Clearing Supplement.
Maximum Notional Amount: The amount specified by LCH.Clearnet SA from time to time, if any,
for all Clearing Members pursuant to Section 5 of the Procedures.
Member State: Any of the member states of the EEA from time to time.
Member Uncovered Risk: In respect of any Business Day, the stress-tested potential loss that
would be incurred on that Business Day in relation to the Open Positions that are registered in a
Clearing Member’s Account Structure, calculated in accordance with the methodology established
by LCH.Clearnet SA.
Membership Termination: The effective termination of a Clearing Member’s membership of the
CDS Clearing System and, subject to Article 2.4.2.4, the extinguishment of its liabilities and
obligations to LCH.Clearnet SA in respect of Cleared Transactions.
Membership Termination Notice: A notice served by either LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with
Article 2.4.2.2(i) or a Clearing Member in accordance with Article 2.4.2.2(ii).
Membership Termination Notice Period: The period from the date on which a Membership
Termination Notice is served to the Clearing Member Termination Date.
MiFID: Directive 2004/39/EC.
Morning Call: The Collateral Call performed on each Business Day at the time specified in
Section 2 of the Procedures for an amount determined in accordance with Section 4.2.3 and
Section 2 of the Procedures.
MTM Change: In relation to a Cleared Transaction, a material effect on the mark to market price of
such Cleared Transaction.
NFA: The U.S. National Futures Association and any successor organisation.
Nominated Clearing Member: With respect to an Intraday Transaction comprising one or more
Client Trade Leg(s) or a Client Backloading Transaction, a Clearing Member which has been
nominated by a Client, in the manner and form as prescribed by Section 5 of the Procedures, to

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

31

Published on 14 April 2016

consent to the registration of the relevant Client Trade Leg in the corresponding Client Trade
Account(s).
Non Bidder: This term shall have the meaning set out in the CDS Default Management Process.
Non-Default Termination: Termination of a Clearing Member’s membership other than as a result
of:
(i)

an Event of Default occurring in respect of such Clearing Member; or

(ii)

an LCH Default.

Non-Default Unwind: In relation to a Clearing Member, the process by which the Clearing
Member unwinds its Cleared Transactions, through:
(i)

transferring its House Cleared Transactions to another Clearing Member;

(ii)

procuring a transfer of the Client Cleared Transactions to one or more Receiving Clearing
Member(s) in accordance with Title V, CHAPTER 3;

(iii)

liquidating, compressing or effecting any other form of close-out in relation to of its House
Cleared Transactions or Client Cleared Transactions that have not been transferred to a
Receiving Clearing Member in accordance with Title V, Chapter 3.

A closing out of Cleared Transactions on the termination of a Clearing Member's membership of
LCH.Clearnet SA is a Non-Default Unwind only where an Event of Default has not occurred in
relation to that Clearing Member.
Non-Defaulting Clearing Member: At any time, each Clearing Member who is not a Defaulting
Clearing Member.
Non-Ported Cleared Transactions: The Client Cleared Transactions of a Defaulting Clearing
Member which have not been ported in accordance with Clause 4.3 of the CDS Default
Management Process.
Notional Amount: In respect of any Cleared Transaction, the Floating Rate Payer Calculation
Amount as defined under the terms of such Cleared Transaction incorporating the ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions.
Notional and Collateral Check: The process by which LCH.Clearnet SA determines whether the
Notional Amount of the relevant Eligible Intraday Transaction exceeds the Maximum Notional
Amount and whether the Clearing Member has:
(i)

sufficient Excess Collateral recorded in the relevant Collateral Account which can be used
to satisfy the Intraday Novation Margin Requirement as required by and set out in Section
2 of the Procedures; or

(ii)

in the circumstances described in Article 4.2.2.4 sufficient Available Client Collateral Buffer
to allocate to:
(a) the relevant Client Account Structure, in the case of a CCM; or
(b) the relevant FCM Client Margin Account, in the case of an FCM Clearing Member,
to satisfy the Intraday Novation Margin Requirement as required by and set out in Section
2 of the Procedures.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

32

Published on 14 April 2016

Novation Time:
(i)

In respect of a Backloading Transaction, as soon as technologically practicable following
the Clearing Member Novation Acceptance Time on the relevant Clearing Day; and

(ii)

in respect of an Intraday Transaction, the point in time at which such Intraday Transaction
is novated immediately following completion and satisfaction of the relevant Notional and
Collateral Check with respect to the relevant Clearing Member as determined in
accordance with the CDS Clearing System processes.

Office: With respect to LCH.Clearnet SA, its Paris head office and, with respect to any Clearing
Member, the branch or office through which it acts for the purposes of the CDS Clearing
Documentation, as initially set out in the CDS Admission Agreement it has entered into with
LCH.Clearnet SA and as may be amended from time to time.
Open Position: The net sum of the obligations resulting from the netting of Cleared Transactions
in accordance with Article 3.2.2.3, Article 5.2.3.3 or Article 6.2.3.3, as applicable.
Opening Hours: 08.00 to 19.30 on each Business Day.
Original Transaction: A Backloading Transaction or an Intraday Transaction.
Original Transaction Data: The Transaction Data and, in respect of an Intraday Transaction
comprising one or more Client Trade Leg(s) or a Client Backloading Transaction, the identifier of
the Nominated Clearing Member and as the case may be, the identifier of the relevant branch of
the Client.
Parent: An entity is a parent in relation to another entity (the subsidiary) if:
(i)

it holds a majority of the voting rights in the subsidiary; or

(ii)

it is a shareholder or partner of the subsidiary and has the right to appoint or remove a
majority of its board of directors; or

(iii)

it has the right to exercise a dominant influence over the subsidiary: (a) by virtue of
provisions contained in the subsidiary’s articles, or (b) by virtue of a control contract; or

(iv)

it is a shareholder or partner of the subsidiary and controls alone, pursuant to an
agreement with other shareholders or partners, a majority of the voting rights in the
subsidiary.

Payment Agent: A third party which holds a cash account with a central bank and/or a Credit
Institution designated by LCH.Clearnet SA, and which a Clearing Member can use to fulfil some or
all of its payment or Margin obligations towards LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with the CDS
Clearing Documentation.
Payment Failure: Any failure by a Clearing Member to, by the due time, transfer, deliver, deposit
with or pay to LCH.Clearnet SA:
(i)

any or all Price Alignment Interest, Initial Payment Amount, Fixed Amounts, cash amounts
due upon the occurrence of a Credit Event, securities, deliverable obligations or assets
owed to LCH.Clearnet SA or to another Clearing Member in respect of Cleared
Transactions registered in the name of the Defaulting Clearing Member with LCH.Clearnet
SA;

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

33

Published on 14 April 2016

(ii)

subject to Article 4.2.3.3(iii) Collateral to satisfy its Margin Requirements (including but
limited to Initial Margin, Additional Margin, Short Charge Margin, Self-Referencing
Protection Margin, Recovery Risk Margin, Interest Rate Risk Margin, Wrong Way Risk
Margin, Accrued Fixed Amount Liquidation Risk Margin, Credit Event Margin,
Concentration Risk Margin, Credit Quality Margin, Extraordinary Margin, Contingency
Variation Margin or any additional Margin imposed by LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to Article
4.2.1.2);

(iii)

Collateral to satisfy its Contribution Requirement; and

(iv)

Cash Payment to satisfy its Variation Margin Requirement.

Person: Any individual, legal entity, corporation, partnership, association, trust, sovereign state,
agency or entity as the context admits or requires.
Physical Settlement Amount: In respect of any Cleared Transaction, as defined under the terms
of such Cleared Transaction incorporating the ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions.
Physically Settled Cleared Transactions: This term shall have the meaning set out in the CDS
Clearing Supplement.
Pledge Agreement: The agreement entered into between LCH.Clearnet SA and a Clearing
Member having exercised its option to transfer Eligible Collateral to LCH.Clearnet SA through a
Belgian law security interest pursuant to Article 3.2.3.2 and/or Article 5.2.4.2.
Pledged Eligible Collateral: Eligible Collateral which is pledged in accordance with a Pledge
Agreement.
Ported Collateral: In relation to each Client Margin Account of a Defaulting Clearing Member:
(i)

the Client Assets or in respect of the CCM Client Margin Account of a CCM Gross
Omnibus Sub-Account Structure, Client Assets, as attributed to that CCM Gross Omnibus
Sub-Account Structure in the sole discretion of LCH.Clearnet SA, and/or as the case may
be, the liquidation value of such Client Assets, together in an amount equivalent to the
CCM Gross Omnibus Sub-Account Balance attributable to that CCM Gross Omnibus SubAccount Structure; plus

(ii)

any other payments which would have been payable by LCH.Clearnet SA to the Defaulting
Clearing Member in respect of the relevant Client Margin Account, but for the operation of
‎Article 1.2.9.2, provided that the relevant Payment Failure was not attributable to the
relevant Client Margin Account.

Porting FCM Cleared Transaction: This term has the meaning set out in Article 6.3.3.1.
Power of Attorney: Authority validly given by a Person, in accordance with all relevant Applicable
Law, to enable another to act in the name of that Person.
Price Alignment Interest: The amount calculated by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Section
2 of the Procedures.
Price Contribution Day: With respect to a Cleared Transaction with a CDS Contractual Currency:
(i)

in Euro: a Clearing Day; or

(ii)

in US Dollar: a Clearing Day that is a day on which commercial banks in New York City are
open for business.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

34

Published on 14 April 2016

Price Contribution Delegate: In respect of a Clearing Member, an entity that:
(i)

is both an Affiliate and a Clearing Member; and

(ii)

has been duly approved by LCH.Clearnet SA to act in the place of such Clearing Member,
pursuant to the conditions set forth in Section 5 of the Procedures.

Price Contribution Participant: Each Clearing Member or its Price Contribution Delegate.
Procedures: One or more documents published and identified as such containing the working
practices and administrative or other requirements of LCH.Clearnet SA for the purpose of
implementing or supplementing this CDS Clearing Rule Book and the CDS Clearing Supplement,
or the procedures for application for and regulation of membership of LCH.Clearnet SA, as
amended from time to time.
Real Time Session: The period commencing at the Start of Real Time and ending at the End of
Real Time in respect of each Clearing Day.
Receiving Clearing Member: A Clearing Member receiving part or all the Cleared Transactions
and, as the case may be, associated Client Assets, of a Client from a Carrying Clearing Member,
pursuant to TITLE V, Chapter 3 for CCMs and TITLE VI, Chapter 3 for FCM Clearing Members,
and in accordance with the Procedures.
Recovery Risk Margin: The amount calculated by LCH.Clearnet SA, in accordance with Section
2 of the Procedures.
Reference Entity: This term shall have the meaning set out in the ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions.
Regulatory Body: The Secretary of State, The Prudential Regulation Authority and Financial
Conduct Authority or professional body designated under Part XX of the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 or other body given regulatory powers under that Act, the Bank of England, the
CFTC or any department, agency, office or tribunal of a nation or state or any other body or
authority which exercises a regulatory or supervisory function under the laws of the United
Kingdom or under any foreign law, including any Competent Authority.
Rejected Transaction: Any Original Transaction which is submitted to LCH.Clearnet SA but is
rejected during the clearing process in accordance with the CDS Clearing Documentation and,
therefore, does not become a Cleared Transaction.
Relevant Client Cleared Transaction: Any Client Cleared Transaction registered in a Client Trade
Account of a Defaulting Clearing Member.
Representative: In relation to a Clearing Member, any Person that carries out or is responsible for
(or purports to carry out or be responsible for) any of the functions of the Clearing Member,
including without limitation any director, partner and/or any duly authorised officer, executive,
employee, or agent.
Required Collateral Amount: The CCM Required Collateral Amount or the FCM Required
Collateral Amount, as the context requires.
Restructuring: In respect of any Cleared Transaction, as defined under the terms of such Cleared
Transaction incorporating the ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

35

Published on 14 April 2016

Restructuring Cleared Transaction: This term shall have the meaning set out in the CDS
Clearing Supplement.
Restructuring Matched Pair: This term has the meaning set out in the CDS Clearing
Supplement.
Resulting Single Name Cleared Transaction: This term shall have the meaning set out in the
CDS Clearing Supplement.
Risk Committee: A committee installed by the board of directors of LCH.Clearnet SA in order to
provide the latter with advice and recommendations on risk management matters. It is composed
of representatives of LCH.Clearnet SA, representatives of Clearing Members and representatives
of independent third parties. The committee assesses the risks borne by LCH.Clearnet SA and
reviews LCH.Clearnet SA risk policies. More generally, it provides advice and recommendations
on risk management framework which are ratified either by LCH.Clearnet SA Chief Executive
Officer or by the board of directors of LCH.Clearnet SA as set-out in its terms of reference. The
composition, frequency and powers of the committee are organised by its terms of reference as
modified from time to time.
Rules Notice: A notice issued by LCH.Clearnet SA detailing any new, amended or revoked
provisions of the CDS Clearing Documentation.
Rules Proposal: A consultation document issued by LCH.Clearnet SA detailing any proposal for a
change in the provisions of the CDS Clearing Documentation.
Scheduled Membership Termination Date: The date specified in a Membership Termination
Notice as being the date on which Membership Termination occurs.
Second Intraday Call: The Collateral Call performed on each Business Day at the time set out in
Section 2 of the Procedures for an amount of collateral determined in accordance with Section
4.2.3 and Section 2 of the Procedures.
Securities Settlement Agent: A third party which is admitted as a participant of a securities
settlement system and/or a central securities depository designated by LCH.Clearnet SA and
holds a Securities account which a Clearing Member can use to fulfil some or all of its Securities
delivery obligations or Margin obligations towards LCH.Clearnet SA or another Clearing Member.
Self-Referencing Protection Margin: The amount calculated by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance
with Section 2 of the Procedures.
Self Referencing Transaction: This term shall have the meaning set out in the CDS Clearing
Supplement.
Settlement Finality Directive: Directive 98/26/EEC.
Settlement Matched Pair: This term shall have the meaning set out in the CDS Clearing
Supplement.
Short Charge Margin: The amount calculated by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Section 2
of the Procedures.
Single Name Cleared Transaction: This term shall have the meaning set out in the CDS Clearing
Supplement.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

36

Published on 14 April 2016

Single Name Cleared Transaction Confirmation: This term shall have the meaning set out in
the CDS Clearing Supplement.
Specific Matter: Any one of the following:
(i)

the provisions set out in Article 4.4.3.4 and Article 4.4.1.4 which ensure that, during a CDS
Post-Default Period, a Clearing Member cannot be required to transfer Collateral to
LCH.Clearnet SA as a Contribution Requirement other than where it is called upon to pay
its Additional Contribution Amount, calculated in accordance with Article 4.4.1.4;

(ii)

the provision in Article 4.3.2.2 which requires LCH.Clearnet SA to implement the CDS
Default Management Process to manage the impact of any Event of Default of a Clearing
Member;

(iii)

any provision, whether relating to the CDS Default Management Process or other
provisions of the CDS Clearing Documentation, which purports to introduce the creation
of, or closing out and valuation of, Cleared Transactions at a price and on terms
determined by LCH.Clearnet SA in its discretion, forced allocation or any other analogous
procedure through which a Clearing Member is required to take on additional risk at a
price or on terms other than as agreed by the Clearing Member or in accordance with the
CDS Default Management Process;

(iv)

the provisions in Article 1.3.1.1(i) in respect of the period of three Business Days following
which a failure to pay or redeliver constitutes an LCH Default;

(v)

the resources which are available to LCH.Clearnet SA following the occurrence of an
Event of Default and the order in which they are available to be used, as set out in Article
4.3.3.1;

(vi)

the provisions set out in Article 4.4.1.2 and Article 4.4.1.3, the definition of Additional
Contribution Amount and the provisions set out in Section 6 of the Procedures, which
govern the size of the CDS Default Fund; and

(vii)

the rights of the Clearing Members pursuant to Article 1.2.2.7 in relation to Specific
Matters.

Spin-off Single Name Cleared Transaction: This term shall have the meaning set out in the CDS
Clearing Supplement.
Start of Real Time (SoRT): On each Clearing Day, the earlier of: (i) the time when all relevant
Clearing Members have satisfied the Morning Call; and (ii) 09.05.
Systems and Operations: All parts and components of the technical system of a Clearing
Member, including hardware and software that is operated and maintained by or on behalf of a
Clearing Member to clear Original Transactions together with the procedures that are in place to
operate such system, including risk management provisions.
TARGET2: The system known as Trans-European Automated Real-time Gross Settlement
Express Transfer 2.
TARGET2 Account: An account held by a TARGET2 participant in TARGET2 payment module
with a Eurosystem Central Bank which is necessary for such TARGET2 participant to:
(i)

submit payment orders or receive payments via TARGET2; and

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

37

Published on 14 April 2016

(ii)

settle such payments with such Eurosystem Central Bank.

Termination Amounts: The House Termination Amount, or the Global House Termination Amount
as applicable, and the Client Termination Amount(s) as the case may be.
Termination Date: For the purpose of TITLE I, Chapter 3, the date (being a Clearing Day not
earlier than the Clearing Day on which the relevant notice is effective) upon which the Cleared
Transactions in each Trade Account of a Clearing Member will be terminated and liquidated in
accordance with Article 1.3.1.3 to Article 1.3.1.12.
TIW: The Trade Information Warehouse operated by DTCC.
TIW Participant: Any Person that is a direct participant in the TIW.
Total Client Margin Requirement: The sum of all Client Margin Requirements of a Clearing
Member.
Total Client Margin Shortfall: With respect to a Clearing Member, an amount equal to the
aggregate of the Client Margin Shortfalls of such Clearing Member.
Total Client Variation Margin Requirement: In respect of a Clearing Member, an amount equal
to the aggregate of the Client Variation Margin Requirements of such Clearing Member.
Total Non Bidder Fraction: This term shall have the meaning set out in the CDS Default
Management Process.
Trade Account: A House Trade Account and/or a Client Trade Account.
Transaction Data: This term shall have the meaning set out in the CDS Clearing Supplement.
US Dollar: The United States Dollar.
Variation Margin: The amount calculated by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Section 2 of the
Procedures and including, where relevant, the Price Alignment Interest.
Variation Margin Requirement: The House Variation Margin Requirement or the Client Variation
Margin Requirement in respect of any Client Margin Account, as applicable.
Website: www.lchclearnet.com.
Weekly Backloading Cycle: The process operated by LCH.Clearnet SA, in accordance with

‎Section 3.1.1, pursuant to which Weekly Backloading Transactions are submitted for clearing.
Weekly Backloading Start Day: Each Monday which is a Business Day or any other day as may
be determined by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Article 3.1.1.10.
Weekly Backloading Novation Day: Each Thursday which is a Business Day or any other day as
may be determined by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Article 3.1.1.10.
Weekly Backloading Transaction: An existing CDS:
(i)

which has two House Trade Legs; and

(ii)

whose Transaction Data is contained in the Gold Records File.

Winding Down Event: A decision which:
(i)

is made by the Autorité de Contrôle Prudentiel et de Résolution and is final; or

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

38

Published on 14 April 2016

(ii)

is made by a court of competent jurisdiction which is final and cannot be appealed (or, to
the extent it could be appealed, there are reasonable grounds for concluding that such
appeal would have no reasonable chance of success);

which prevents LCH.Clearnet SA from providing the CDS Clearing Service to all, or substantially
all Clearing Members.
Wrong Way Risk Margin: The amount calculated by LCH.Clearnet SA, in accordance with
Section 2 of the Procedures.

Section 1.1.2 Incorporation of defined terms
Article 1.1.2.1
The capitalised terms listed in this CDS Clearing Rule Book as having the meaning set out in the
CDS Clearing Supplement, the ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions, an Index Cleared Transaction
Confirmation, a Single Name Cleared Transaction Confirmation, or the CDS Dispute Resolution
Protocol shall be interpreted in accordance with the governing law of the CDS Clearing
Supplement or the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol, as the case may be.
Article 1.1.2.2
Capitalised terms which are used in the CDS Clearing Documentation and not otherwise defined in
this CDS Clearing Rule Book shall have the meanings given in the document in which such terms
are defined and shall be interpreted in accordance with the governing law of that document. Any
Clearing Notice will be interpreted in accordance with the law of the relevant CDS Clearing
Document to which it relates.

Section 1.1.3 Interpretation and references
Article 1.1.3.1
References to any law, regulation or directive in the CDS Clearing Documentation shall include
any notice, order, guidance, example or subordinate legislation made from time to time under such
law, regulation or directive.
Article 1.1.3.2
References to any law, regulation or directive in the CDS Clearing Documentation shall be
construed as references to such law, regulation or directive as in force from time to time and,
insofar as liability may arise thereunder, shall include such past law, regulation or directive which
was applicable at the time of the relevant act or omission.
Article 1.1.3.3
Where reference is made in the CDS Clearing Documentation to a TITLE, Chapter, Section or
Article, such reference is to a TITLE, Chapter, Section or Article of this CDS Clearing Rule Book
unless otherwise indicated. Appendices to this CDS Clearing Rule Book form part of this CDS
Clearing Rule Book.
Article 1.1.3.4
Chapter or Section headings in the CDS Clearing Documentation are for ease of reference only;
they are not part of the content of the relevant Chapter or Section and shall not in any way affect
the interpretation thereof.
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

39

Published on 14 April 2016

Article 1.1.3.5
This CDS Clearing Rule Book and the CDS Clearing Supplement shall be implemented and
supplemented by Procedures and interpreted by reference to Clearing Notices. The Procedures
shall take effect and shall be binding on Clearing Members as if they formed part of this CDS
Clearing Rule Book or the CDS Clearing Supplement, if applicable, subject to Article 1.1.3.8 below.
Article 1.1.3.6
Words importing the singular shall, where the context permits, include the plural and vice versa.
Article 1.1.3.7
Reference to writing contained in the CDS Clearing Documentation shall include typing, printing,
lithography, photography or any other mode of representing or reproducing words in the visual
form.
Article 1.1.3.8
The CDS Clearing Documentation shall be drawn up in English. Different language versions or
translations of the CDS Clearing Documentation may be issued for information purposes. In the
event of inconsistency between different language versions or translations of the CDS Clearing
Documentation, the English language version of the CDS Clearing Documentation shall prevail
over any other language versions or translations.
To the extent of any conflict between (i) any definition or provision contained in Appendix 1 of this
CDS Clearing Rule Book; (ii) the remainder of this CDS Clearing Rule Book; (iii) the CDS
Admission Agreement; (iv) the Pledge Agreement; (v) the CDS Clearing Supplement; (vi) an Index
Cleared Transaction Confirmation or Single Name Cleared Transaction Confirmation (as
applicable); (vii) the Procedures; or (viii) any Clearing Notices, the first referenced document shall
prevail, except with respect to any conflict arising from this CDS Clearing Rule Book being
governed by French law and the CDS Clearing Supplement being governed by English law in
relation to determining the existence and/or amount of any payment and delivery obligations under
any Cleared Transactions, in respect of which the CDS Clearing Supplement, the Index Cleared
Transaction Confirmation or Single Name Cleared Transaction Confirmation, as applicable, shall
prevail to the extent permitted by law.
Article 1.1.3.9
The "CDS Buyer" and "CDS Seller" within the meaning of the CDS Clearing Documentation shall
not be construed as being, respectively, a buyer or a seller under a sale contract within the
meaning of article 1582 of the French Civil Code.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

40

Published on 14 April 2016

CHAPTER 2 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 1.2.1 General
Article 1.2.1.1
The CDS Clearing Documentation sets out the principles and general conditions governing the
organisation and operation of the CDS Clearing Service.
Article 1.2.1.2
Any general or specific decisions which LCH.Clearnet SA is required or permitted to take pursuant
to the provisions of the CDS Clearing Documentation shall be taken in accordance with general
principles of good faith and fair dealing, in a commercially reasonable manner, in accordance with
high standards of integrity, and at an appropriate level of seniority.
Article 1.2.1.3
The provisions of the CDS Clearing Documentation shall be binding on all Clearing Members in
relation to the CDS Clearing Service and Clearing Members shall at all times comply with the
requirements set out in the CDS Clearing Documentation in addition to any other conditions and
restrictions that apply or are imposed in accordance herein.

Section 1.2.2 Modification
Article 1.2.2.1
LCH.Clearnet SA shall only be permitted to modify the CDS Clearing Documentation from time to
time, in accordance with the provisions of this Section 1.2.2. For the avoidance of doubt, this
Section 1.2.2 does not apply to the issuance of Clearing Notices.
Article 1.2.2.2
In respect of any proposed modification applying to Clearing Members generally including any
proposed new provisions or amendments to and/or revocations of existing provisions,
LCH.Clearnet SA shall first consult with the appropriate legal, risk, operational and/or other forums
established by LCH.Clearnet SA, in which Clearing Members may request to participate. Subject
to Article 1.2.2.4 and Article 1.2.2.7, if, pursuant to this consultation process, LCH.Clearnet SA
wishes to proceed with a proposed modification, LCH.Clearnet SA shall issue a Rules Proposal to
all Clearing Members providing at least 14 days for Clearing Members to respond.
Article 1.2.2.3
Subject to Article 1.2.2.6, following the due completion of the process set out in Article 1.2.2.2,
LCH.Clearnet SA may issue a Rules Notice. The Rules Notice shall provide full details of each
new, amended or revoked provision of the CDS Clearing Document. Each such Rules Notice shall
come into effect two Clearing Days after its publication or upon a later Clearing Day specified in
such Rules Notice.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

41

Published on 14 April 2016

Article 1.2.2.4
Other than in respect of any matter which is a Specific Matter, for which Article 1.2.2.7 shall apply,
LCH.Clearnet SA may issue a Rules Notice without having issued a Rules Proposal or provided 14
days for Clearing Members to respond in accordance with Article 1.2.2.2 in the following
circumstances:
(i)

the proposed modification is of a limited, technical nature or relates to minor,
administrative provisions and, in each case, LCH.Clearnet SA reasonably considers that
prior consultation of Clearing Members in accordance with Article 1.2.2.2 is not
appropriate;

(ii)

the proposed modification is required, necessary or desirable (whether in accordance with
the legal advice received by LCH.Clearnet SA or otherwise) to ensure that LCH.Clearnet
SA:
(a)

complies with Applicable Law, accounting standards or the requirements or
recommendations of any Governmental Authority or relevant Regulatory Body; or

(b)

maintains its status as a clearing house within the meaning of Article L. 440-1 of
the French Monetary and Financial Code or any other legal or regulatory status it
has under any other Applicable Law;

(c)

properly manages any risks to LCH.Clearnet SA arising out of what LCH.Clearnet
SA reasonably considers to be Extreme Market Developments;

provided that no modifications shall be made under sub-paragraphs (a) or (b) above without
issuing a Rules Proposal and providing 14 days for Clearing Members to respond unless it is
impractical for LCH.Clearnet SA to do so or LCH.Clearnet SA acting reasonably and in good
faith considers it not to be necessary; and provided that no modifications shall be made under
sub-paragraph (c) above without LCH.Clearnet SA having first convened an emergency
meeting of the Risk Committee (which shall constitute the appropriate forum for the purposes
of Article 1.2.2.2) on whatever notice period LCH.Clearnet SA is able to give and
LCH.Clearnet SA's having regard to any advice of the Risk Committee before making any
such modifications.
Notwithstanding its rights set out in this Article 1.2.2.4(ii)(c), LCH.Clearnet SA shall deal with
an Event occurring in respect of a Clearing Member in accordance with its rights set out in
Section 2.4.1 and Section 4.3.1 and shall deal with an Event of Default being declared in
respect of a Clearing Member in accordance with Section 4.3.2 and Section 4.3.3. The
occurrence of an Event, the declaration of an Event of Default or the due implementation of
the CDS Default Management Process shall not constitute Extreme Market Developments.
Article 1.2.2.5
Where LCH.Clearnet SA issues a Rules Notice in the circumstances described in Article 1.2.2.4(i)
or (ii), the Rules Notice shall come into effect on the expiry of such period of notice as is set out in
such Rules Notice and LCH.Clearnet SA shall not be bound by the minimum period set out in
Article 1.2.2.3. Notwithstanding the foregoing, LCH.Clearnet SA agrees that, wherever feasible, a
Rules Notice will be published on the Website two Clearing Days prior to it coming into effect.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

42

Published on 14 April 2016

Article 1.2.2.6
Subject to Article 1.2.2.4 and Article 1.2.2.11, LCH.Clearnet SA shall not, in any circumstances, be
permitted to make any modification to the CDS Clearing Documentation that would alter the terms,
including, but not limited to, the payment or delivery obligations, of a Cleared Transaction.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in relation to any relevant index, where the related Index Publisher
publishes an updated form of confirmation in respect of CDS referencing such index, or where
ISDA publishes an updated form of confirmation for the Single Name Cleared Transaction,
LCH.Clearnet SA may, in consultation with the Risk Committee, adopt such form of confirmation in
respect of Index Cleared Transactions or Single Name Cleared Transactions, as the case may be,
either:
(i)

with respect to existing and future Cleared Transactions referencing such index or Single
Name Cleared Transactions, as the case may be; or

(ii)

with respect to future Cleared Transactions referencing such index or Single Name
Cleared Transactions, as the case may be, only,

and in each case may make consequential changes to the CDS Clearing Supplement and the
Procedures, provided that LCH.Clearnet SA may only adopt such confirmations and make
consequential changes following consultation with the Risk Committee and provided further that:
(a)

LCH.Clearnet SA may only adopt such confirmations when LCH.Clearnet SA determines,
following consultation with the Risk Committee, that such confirmations are industry
standard; and

(b)

LCH.Clearnet SA may only modify existing Cleared Transactions as the case may be, if
LCH.Clearnet SA determines, following consultation with the Risk Committee, that such
modifications will not result in an MTM Change in respect of the relevant Cleared
Transaction, as the case may be.

Without prejudice to its right to make other changes to the CDS Clearing Documentation in
accordance with this Section 1.2.2, LCH.Clearnet SA shall not, by Clearing Notice or otherwise,
issue any interpretation of any provision of any Cleared Transaction that is or purports to be
binding on Clearing Members generally. Following the due completion of the process set out in
Article 1.2.2.2, LCH.Clearnet SA will issue a Rules Notice in accordance with Article 1.2.2.3.
Article 1.2.2.7
If LCH.Clearnet SA issues a Rules Proposal which purports to amend, introduce, override,
contravene or revoke any Specific Matter, LCH.Clearnet SA shall ensure that the consultation
process involving Clearing Members shall be no less than 30 calendar days from the date of the
publication of this Rules Proposal and, as part of such consultation process, LCH.Clearnet SA
shall act fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of the Clearing Members
(as a whole) and sound risk management. On completion of the consultation process,
LCH.Clearnet SA may issue a Rules Notice, subject that such Rules Notice shall come into effect
no earlier than 180 calendar days from the date of its publication. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
LCH.Clearnet SA shall be permitted to shorten the 30 calendar day and/or the 180 calendar day
period if at least 50% of Clearing Members by number and 75% by contributions to the CDS
Default Fund as at the date of its last calculation pursuant to Article 4.4.1.5 and Article 4.4.1.6
agree in writing to LCH.Clearnet SA.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

43

Published on 14 April 2016

Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Article 1.2.2.7 shall not apply in respect of any Rules Proposal
and Rules Notice issued in order solely to implement a binding direction issued to LCH.Clearnet
SA by a Regulatory Body.
Article 1.2.2.8
LCH.Clearnet SA may issue from time to time a Clearing Notice in accordance with this CDS
Clearing Rule Book, the CDS Clearing Supplement or the Procedures. LCH.Clearnet SA may
amend or revoke any previous Clearing Notice by means of a Clearing Notice. Except in cases
where LCH.Clearnet SA considers a modification to guidance to be urgent (where modification
may take immediate effect), a Clearing Notice shall take effect two Clearing Days after its
publication.
Article 1.2.2.9
Clearing Notices may not be used to issue new, or amend or revoke any existing, principles, rights
or obligations as set out in the CDS Clearing Rules or any Cleared Transaction. For the avoidance
of doubt, Clearing Notices shall not be notices contemplated by or to be given under the terms of
Cleared Transactions pursuant to the CDS Clearing Supplement and shall not be subject to
Section 1.10 (Requirements Regarding Notices) of the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions or
Section 1.38 (Requirements Regarding Notices) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions,
as applicable.
Article 1.2.2.10
The terms of reference of the Risk Committee will be set by the board of directors of LCH.Clearnet
SA, and any decision to change thereto will be subject to prior consultation with the Risk
Committee. Such changes will be notified in advance to the Clearing Members and made by the
board of directors of LCH.Clearnet SA.
Article 1.2.2.11
LCH.Clearnet SA may, in consultation with the Risk Committee and such other appropriate legal,
operational and other forums established by LCH.Clearnet SA, modify this CDS Clearing Rule
Book, the CDS Clearing Supplement and/or the Procedures in accordance with any relevant CDS
industry sponsored protocol or other industry sponsored protocol (or, in each case, other
multilateral agreement process) to which, as at 17.00 on the originally scheduled closing date of
such protocol or other multilateral agreement process, at least 50% of Clearing Members by
number and 50% by contribution to the CDS Default Fund as at the date of its last recalculation
pursuant to Article 4.4.1.5 and Article 4.4.1.6 agree to adhere, with such modification to be
applicable to all existing or future Cleared Transactions of the relevant CDS Type as set forth in
such protocol or multilateral agreement process or resolution.
Article 1.2.2.12
In relation to any proposed modification in accordance with Article 1.2.2.4, LCH.Clearnet SA shall,
following consultation with the appropriate legal, risk, operational and/or other forums established
by LCH.Clearnet SA in relation to such proposed modification, determine whether such proposed
modification will have an MTM Change on any existing Cleared Transaction that will be affected by
any such proposed modification and any amount that shall be payable to a Clearing Member by
LCH.Clearnet SA or from a Clearing Member to LCH.Clearnet SA to reflect such MTM Change.
LCH.Clearnet SA shall, following any determination of an MTM Change in respect of a Cleared
Transaction and any payment due in respect thereof, promptly notify each relevant Clearing
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

44

Published on 14 April 2016

Member of the same and the date on which such amount shall be due and payable by
LCH.Clearnet SA or the Clearing Member as applicable.

Section 1.2.3 Publication
Article 1.2.3.1
LCH.Clearnet SA shall ensure that the CDS Clearing Documentation is kept updated and that all
such documents and each Clearing Notice, each Rules Proposal and each Rules Notice and all
other decisions of general application to the Clearing Members and/or any relevant decisions in
relation to the CDS Clearing Service provided by LCH.Clearnet SA to Clearing Members are
posted on its Website and notified to Clearing Members individually in accordance with the CDS
Admission Agreement, as appropriate.
Article 1.2.3.2
Whenever any Rules Notice is issued in relation to the CDS Clearing Service provided by
LCH.Clearnet SA to Clearing Members, LCH.Clearnet SA shall ensure that the relevant CDS
Clearing Documents are updated as soon as reasonably possible to reflect the modifications
contained in the Rules Notice and shall post such updated document on the Website.
Article 1.2.3.3
LCH.Clearnet SA shall additionally update the Procedures periodically to incorporate guidance
issued by way of Clearing Notice in relation to the CDS Clearing Service provided by
LCH.Clearnet SA to Clearing Members, pursuant to Article 1.2.2.8, and shall post such updated
Procedures on the Website.

Section 1.2.4 Extension or waiver
Article 1.2.4.1
The time fixed by the CDS Clearing Documentation for the doing of any acts by a Clearing
Member in relation to LCH.Clearnet SA may be extended or waived by LCH.Clearnet SA in its
discretion whenever it considers that an extension or waiver is necessary or in the best interests of
the CDS Clearing Service.
Article 1.2.4.2
Any waiver of any right or consent given by LCH.Clearnet SA under the CDS Clearing
Documentation is only effective if it is given in writing. Any such waiver or consent shall only apply
to the circumstances for which it was given and shall not prevent LCH.Clearnet SA from
subsequently relying upon the relevant provision in another circumstance. No delay or failure by
LCH.Clearnet SA to exercise its rights or pursue any of its remedies under the CDS Clearing
Documentation shall constitute a waiver.

Section 1.2.5 Notices - Communications
Article 1.2.5.1
Unless stated otherwise in the relevant sections of the CDS Clearing Documentation,
LCH.Clearnet SA shall deliver any notice, order or communication which is required to be given to
Clearing Members pursuant to the CDS Clearing Documentation by hand, post, courier, electronic
transmission, email, facsimile or telephone to the address, email address, facsimile number or
telephone number specified by a Clearing Member in the CDS Admission Agreement, as updated
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

45

Published on 14 April 2016

from time to time, except that a copy of any Default Notice delivered pursuant to Article 4.3.1.3,
Final Settlement Notice delivered pursuant to Article 4.3.3.4 and/or Membership Termination
Notice delivered pursuant to Article 2.4.2.2 must additionally be delivered to a Clearing Member by
hand, post or courier.
Article 1.2.5.2
Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default in respect of a Clearing Member, LCH.Clearnet SA
shall rely on the latest information received by LCH.Clearnet SA from the relevant Defaulting
Clearing Member on its Client(s) in order to contact the relevant Client(s) or for the purposes of
any payment to the relevant Clients(s).
Article 1.2.5.3
Clearing Members shall deliver, provide, serve on or file with LCH.Clearnet SA any notice,
document, communication, filing or form that is required pursuant to the CDS Clearing
Documentation in writing unless otherwise specified in the CDS Clearing Documentation.
Article 1.2.5.4
With the exception of modifications made under Section 1.2.2 (which will become effective on the
date stated therein), and unless stated otherwise in the relevant sections of the CDS Clearing
Documentation, any notice (including but not limited to any Default Notice, Clearing Notice, Rules
Notice, and excluding any notice relating to Margin), document (including but not limited to any
Rules Proposal), communication, filing or form, provided by LCH.Clearnet SA or a Clearing
Member will, unless otherwise specified in the CDS Clearing Rules, only be effectively served,
filed, made or provided:
(i)

if sent by post, on the third Business Day (or tenth Business Day in the case of airmail)
after the day on which it was posted, with full postage paid and in a correctly addressed
envelope;

(ii)

if delivered by hand or by courier, at the time of delivery or, if not delivered prior to 17.00
on a Business Day, on the following Business Day; and

(iii)

if delivered by facsimile or electronic transmission or published on the Website, on the
Business Day of transmission or publication where such transmission or publication occurs
prior to 16.00 or, where transmission or publication occurs after 16.00, on the following
Business Day.

Article 1.2.5.5
LCH.Clearnet SA is entitled to act upon notice, order or communication appearing to have been
issued by, or have come from, a Clearing Member or, pursuant to Clause 4.3 of the CDS Client
Clearing DMP, a Client. These will be accepted by LCH.Clearnet SA as genuine, even if, for
example, they are later found:
(i)

to be inaccurate, whether in whole or in part; or

(ii)

not to have been given by the Clearing Member or a Client, as appropriate; or

(iii)

not to have been given with the authority of the Clearing Member or a Client, as
appropriate.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

46

Published on 14 April 2016

Section 1.2.6 Fees
Article 1.2.6.1
The fees payable by Clearing Members to LCH.Clearnet SA shall be published from time to time
by LCH.Clearnet SA on the Website.
Article 1.2.6.2
Each Clearing Member shall pay to LCH.Clearnet SA such fees when due and payable and in
such manner as is required by LCH.Clearnet SA.

Section 1.2.7 Currency
Article 1.2.7.1
Subject to Article 1.2.7.4, if at any time a currency is substituted by another currency pursuant to
existing or new legislation, the obligations of Clearing Members arising under the CDS Clearing
Documentation shall take place in the substitute currency as from the effective date of such
replacement providing that such substitute currency is an Eligible Currency.
Article 1.2.7.2
If substitution of a specific currency involves a period of transition, clearing by Clearing Members
during this period of transition will take place in the currency as specified by LCH.Clearnet SA in a
Rules Notice.
Article 1.2.7.3
If necessary, LCH.Clearnet SA shall establish the rate for converting the replaced currency to the
substitute currency as well as the applicable rounding rules in accordance with the Procedures,
subject to Applicable Law.
Article 1.2.7.4
If at any time the currency in which Clearing Members are required to make Cash Payments is
succeeded or substituted by another currency pursuant to existing or new legislation,
LCH.Clearnet SA shall be required to consult with Clearing Members, in accordance with Article
1.2.2.2, prior to issuing a Rules Notice which revises the currency in which such Cash Payment
obligations are required to be performed.
Article 1.2.7.5
Subject to Article 1.2.7.1 to Article 1.2.7.4 above, and to the extent permitted by Applicable Law, if
any judgment or order expressed in a currency other than the CDS Contractual Currency is
rendered:
(i)

for the payment of any amount owing in respect of any Cleared Transaction;

(ii)

for the payment of any amount relating to any early termination in respect of such Cleared
Transaction; or

(iii)

in respect of a judgment or order of another court for the payment of any amount
described in sub-paragraph (i) or (ii) above,

the party seeking recovery, after recovery in full of the aggregate amount to which such party is
entitled pursuant to the judgment or order, will be entitled to receive immediately from the other
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

47

Published on 14 April 2016

party the amount of any shortfall of the CDS Contractual Currency received by such party as a
consequence of sums paid in such other currency and will refund promptly to the other party any
excess of the CDS Contractual Currency received by such party as a consequence of sums paid
in such other currency if such shortfall or such excess arises or results from any variation between
the rate of exchange at which the CDS Contractual Currency is converted into the currency of the
judgment or order for the purpose of such judgment or order and the rate of exchange at which
such party is able, acting in good faith and using commercially reasonable procedures in
converting the currency received into the CDS Contractual Currency, to purchase the CDS
Contractual Currency with the amount of the currency of the judgment or order actually received
by such party.
Article 1.2.7.6
To the extent permitted by Applicable Law, the provisions of Article 1.2.7.5 above constitute
separate and independent obligations from the other obligations under the CDS Clearing
Documentation, will be enforceable as separate and independent causes of action, will apply
notwithstanding any indulgence granted by the party to which any payment is owed and will not be
affected by judgment being obtained or claim or proof being made for any other sums payable in
respect of the CDS Admission Agreement.
Article 1.2.7.7
For the purpose of Article 1.2.7.5 and Article 1.2.7.6 above, it will be sufficient for a party to
demonstrate that it would have suffered a loss had an actual exchange or purchase of currencies
been made.

Section 1.2.8 Time reference
Article 1.2.8.1
Where reference is made in the CDS Clearing Documentation to a time or deadline, it shall be
understood to mean Central European Time (CET), unless otherwise stipulated in the CDS
Clearing Documentation.

Section 1.2.9 Obligations of LCH.Clearnet SA to each Clearing Member
Article 1.2.9.1
In accordance with Article 3 of the Settlement Finality Directive, upon registration in accordance
with this CDS Clearing Rule Book, Cleared Transactions shall be legally enforceable and binding
on third parties even in the event of Insolvency Proceedings against a Clearing Member.
LCH.Clearnet SA undertakes to perform its obligations to each Clearing Member on the basis of
the Cleared Transactions registered in its name, in accordance with the CDS Clearing
Documentation.
Article 1.2.9.2
Where a Clearing Member is subject to a Payment Failure, LCH.Clearnet SA may (without
prejudice to any other rights it may have against the Clearing Member) withhold any payments it
would otherwise be obliged to make under the CDS Clearing Documentation to such Clearing
Member up to the value of the payment(s) that constitute the Payment Failure (such value
calculated using reasonable currency conversion rates where necessary) for so long as the
Payment Failure continues.
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

48

Published on 14 April 2016

The scope of the obligations that LCH.Clearnet SA undertakes to perform as counterparty to the
relevant Clearing Members with respect to Cleared Transactions and as detailed in the relevant
provisions of the CDS Clearing Documentation after registration in accordance with this CDS
Clearing Rule Book has occurred include, without limitation:
(i)

the payment of the Variation Margin to the relevant Clearing Member;

(ii)

the payment of the Price Alignment Interest to the Clearing Member;

(iii)

the payment of the Initial Payment Amount, if any, to the relevant Clearing Member;

(iv)

the payment of Fixed Amounts to the CDS Seller; and

(v)

following a Credit Event, and in accordance with the CDS Clearing Supplement:
(a)

when Auction Settlement applies, the payment of the Auction Settlement Amount
to the CDS Buyer;

(b)

when Physical Settlement applies, the payment to the CDS Buyer of the Physical
Settlement Amount; and

(c)

where the Partial Cash Settlement Terms apply pursuant to the Cleared
Transaction, the payment of the Cash Settlement Amount to the CDS Buyer.

These obligations of LCH.Clearnet SA to each Clearing Member shall be determined after giving
effect to netting as set out in Section 3 of the Procedures.

Section 1.2.10

Liability

Article 1.2.10.1
Subject to Article 1.2.10.2, Article 1.2.10.3 and Article 1.2.10.5 below, a Clearing Member shall be
liable for any direct Damage incurred or suffered by LCH.Clearnet SA as a consequence of such
Clearing Member's breach of any of its obligations under the CDS Clearing Documentation or the
terms of a Cleared Transaction.
Article 1.2.10.2
A Clearing Member will not be held liable for any special, indirect or consequential Damage,
including loss of custom, profit or revenues, or any Damage which results from abnormal or
fraudulent use of the CDS Clearing System by third parties, or for any Damage resulting from acts
or omissions of third parties, other than members of its Financial Group.
Article 1.2.10.3
Unless expressly stated otherwise in the CDS Clearing Documentation, LCH.Clearnet SA will
under no circumstances be liable for any Damage, including that arising out of or in connection
with any of the following:
(i)

in respect of a claim for Damages by a Clearing Member or a Client, following a total or
partial failure by such Clearing Member to perform or comply with the CDS Clearing
Documentation;

(ii)

any act or omission of a Clearing Member or other third party, including, without limitation,
in the circumstances set out in (ix) or (xviii) below;

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

49

Published on 14 April 2016

(iii)

any agreement or arrangement that a Clearing Member has entered into with a third party
in connection with its activities under the CDS Clearing Documentation (including, without
limitation, the CDS Client Clearing Agreement and any agreement or arrangement referred
to in Section 2.2.7);

(iv)

any suspension, restriction or closure of LCH.Clearnet SA or its services, where required
of LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to Applicable Law, whether for a temporary period or
otherwise;

(v)

reliance by LCH.Clearnet SA on any data provided to it by a Clearing Member or as may
otherwise be provided to it in accordance with this CDS Clearing Rule Book, including the
End of Day Contributed Prices;

(vi)

excepting any dispute arising under the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol which may
relate to whether an Original Transaction has been novated pursuant to this CDS Clearing
Rule Book, any dispute arising from or in relation to any Original Transaction; including,
but not limited to, any dispute as to the validity or otherwise of the Original Transaction, the
terms of the Original Transaction or whether any alleged agreement or arrangement
constitutes an Original Transaction;

(vii)

any failure to pre-register, or the improper pre-registration of, positions in the CDS
Clearing System corresponding to an Original Transaction eligible for clearing by
LCH.Clearnet SA because of a third party’s fault or a Force Majeure Event affecting
LCH.Clearnet SA;

(viii)

registration of Cleared Transactions in a Clearing Member’s Trade Account and/or
allocation of such Cleared Transactions in a Clearing Member’s Margin Account where it
does so on the basis of the Original Transaction Data with respect to the relevant Original
Transaction;

(ix)

the quality, fitness for purpose, completeness or accuracy of End of Day Contributed
Prices or composite prices/spreads;

(x)

in respect of a claim for Damages by a Defaulting Clearing Member, any decision by
LCH.Clearnet SA to proceed with a liquidation of its Cleared Transactions or the taking of
any other action pursuant to Article 4.3.2.3 or the CDS Default Management Process
(including, for the avoidance of doubt, the CDS Client Clearing DMP);

(xi)

the exercise, or failure to exercise, by LCH.Clearnet SA of any discretion or right conferred
upon it by the CDS Clearing Documentation, including any actions taken or omitted to be
taken in relation to the application of LCH.Clearnet SA’s rights following the declaration of
an Event of Default in respect of a Clearing Member;

(xii)

any statement, representation or warranty by LCH.Clearnet SA or any of its officers or
representatives other than as expressly set out in the CDS Clearing Documentation or the
CDS Admission Agreement;

(xiii)

any special, indirect or consequential Damage, including loss of custom, profit or
revenues;

(xiv)

rejection of any application to become a Clearing Member;

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

50

Published on 14 April 2016

(xv)

the effectiveness, efficiency, performance or any other aspect of the services provided by
any Approved Trade Source System or the timeliness or otherwise of the delivery of any
Original Transaction details by that Approved Trade Source System to LCH.Clearnet SA;

(xvi)

any error within or corruption of any data sent by an Approved Trade Source System
directly or indirectly to LCH.Clearnet SA or to a Clearing Member or any delay in or failure
of the transmission of such data to LCH.Clearnet SA;

(xvii)

the registration of a Cleared Transaction on the basis of incorrect or corrupted data sent to
it by an Approved Trade Source System;

(xviii)

any decision of any ISDA Credit Derivatives Determinations Committee or any failure of
any such committee to take any decision;

(xix)

any breach by a Clearing Member of its obligations, under any Applicable Law or
otherwise resulting from the CDS Clearing Services, vis-à-vis its Clients, Affiliates or
LCH.Clearnet SA (including, without limitation, in the case of an FCM Clearing Member,
any breach of its obligations under the FCM CDS Clearing Regulations regarding
segregation or any agreement or arrangement to which it is a party);

(xx)

any action or inaction on the part of any Clearing Member or third party which would
prevent, impair, limit, restrict or delay the transfer or porting of Cleared Transactions or the
conditions under which Cleared Transactions may be or are transferred or ported (whether
in the context of an Event of Default or otherwise); or

(xxi)

any default of an FCM Client (or, if permitted pursuant to Article 6.1.1.1, an Affiliate),
including, without limitation, a breach by an FCM Client (or such Affiliate) of its obligations
under any Applicable Law, FCM Cleared Transaction or CDS Client Clearing Agreement.

Article 1.2.10.4
Nothing in Article 1.2.10.3 above shall be construed as LCH.Clearnet SA excluding or restricting
its liability vis-à-vis any Clearing Member for:
(i)

fraud, fraudulent representation, gross negligence or an intentional omission or act on the
part of LCH.Clearnet SA;

(ii)

personal injury or death caused by the negligence, recklessness or any intentional act or
omission of LCH.Clearnet SA;

(iii)

any liability which cannot be lawfully excluded under Applicable Law (to the extent such
liability cannot be lawfully excluded);

(iv)

the performance of its obligations vis-à-vis any Clearing Member pursuant to Section 1.2.9
(to the extent that no Event of Default has occurred with respect to such Clearing Member
(and is ongoing), and other than where such liability occurs as a result of LCH.Clearnet SA
following the CDS Default Management Process);

(v)

its obligation to return the Excess Collateral to a Clearing Member pursuant to Article
4.2.2.5 (to the extent that no Event of Default has occurred with respect to such Clearing
Member);

(vi)

its obligation to transfer the Client Assets to a Receiving Clearing Member pursuant to
Section 5.3.2 or Section 6.3.2;

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

51

Published on 14 April 2016

(vii)

its obligation to return any CCM Unallocated Client Collateral or FCM Unallocated Client
Excess Collateral (as applicable) to the Defaulting Clearing Member in accordance with
Article 4.3.2.4;

(viii)

its obligation to transfer the Ported Collateral to a Backup Clearing Member pursuant to
Clause 4 of the CDS Default Management Process;

(ix)

its obligation, in the case of a CCM, to return the CDS Client Clearing Entitlement to the
relevant Client pursuant to Clause 4 of the CDS Default Management Process;

(x)

its obligation, pursuant to Article 2.4.2.11, to repay to a Clearing Member who voluntarily
terminates its membership in accordance with Article 2.4.2.2 an amount equal to the sum
of its Margin Balance and Client Collateral Buffer, (save that LCH Clearnet SA shall be
entitled to retain any collateral in accordance with the FCM CDS Clearing Regulations),
any Collateral that has been transferred to LCH.Clearnet SA to satisfy its Contribution
Requirement to the extent it has not been used by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with
the CDS Clearing Rules and any recovery made by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with
Article 4.4.3.8; or

(xi)

its obligation to return any FCM Client Collateral Buffer to an FCM Clearing Member.

Article 1.2.10.5
LCH.Clearnet SA and each Clearing Member shall take all reasonable care in the selection and
monitoring of any Person that is to act on its behalf.

Section 1.2.11

Force Majeure Events

Article 1.2.11.1
Neither LCH.Clearnet SA nor a Clearing Member shall be liable for any failure, hindrance or delay
in performance in whole or in part of its obligations under the CDS Clearing Documentation if and
to the extent that such failure, hindrance or delay arises as a result of a Force Majeure Event
affecting LCH.Clearnet SA or the Clearing Member (as the case may be).
Article 1.2.11.2
On the occurrence of a Force Majeure Event:
(i)

if applicable to a Clearing Member, such Clearing Member shall as soon as reasonably
practicable notify LCH.Clearnet SA of the occurrence of the Force Majeure Event
occurring in respect of it. The decision to notify LCH.Clearnet SA of a Force Majeure Event
under this Article 1.2.11.2 will be taken by a Clearing Member at an appropriate level of
seniority;

(ii)

if applicable to LCH.Clearnet SA, LCH.Clearnet SA shall issue a Clearing Notice, notifying
all Clearing Members of the occurrence of the Force Majeure Event occurring in respect of
it, which must be made by the Chief Executive Officer of LCH.Clearnet SA or at an
appropriate level of seniority;

(iii)

all Clearing Members shall comply with any reasonable directions issued by LCH.Clearnet
SA in respect of such Cleared Transactions affected by the Force Majeure Event and as
are specified by LCH.Clearnet SA provided that such directions may not have the effect of
amending, introducing, overriding, contravening or revoking any of the rights of Clearing
Members in respect of any Specific Matter (unless, for the avoidance of doubt,

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

52

Published on 14 April 2016

LCH.Clearnet SA complies with the procedures set out in Article 1.2.2.7 as applicable)
save where LCH.Clearnet SA is required to do so in order to implement a binding direction
issued to it by a Regulatory Body, and provided that no such direction shall be given in the
circumstances contemplated by Article 1.2.2.4(ii)(c) without LCH.Clearnet SA having
complied with the requirements of that Article;
(iv)

each of the Clearing Members and LCH.Clearnet SA who are, and continue to be, affected
by the Force Majeure Event shall use all reasonable endeavours to mitigate the effect of
the same upon each of their respective ability to perform their obligations under the CDS
Clearing Documentation;

(v)

each Clearing Member affected by the Force Majeure Event shall promptly notify
LCH.Clearnet SA as soon as its ability to perform is no longer affected by the Force
Majeure Event; and

(vi)

if LCH.Clearnet SA was obliged to issue a Clearing Notice pursuant to Article 1.2.11.2(ii)
above, it shall issue a further Clearing Notice to all Clearing Members as soon as its ability
to perform is no longer affected by the Force Majeure Event.

Section 1.2.12

Confidentiality

Article 1.2.12.1
LCH.Clearnet SA shall hold all information concerning past or current activities of a Clearing
Member (including, but not limited to, information concerning:
(i)

the Cleared Transactions registered in its Trade Account(s);

(ii)

the Open Positions registered in its Margin Account(s);

(iii)

the positions pre-registered in its Account Structure;

(iv)

its Margin Requirement;

(v)

the level of Excess Collateral maintained by such Clearing Member in respect of any of its
Margin Accounts;

(vi)

the level of Collateral maintained by such Clearing Member in its Buffer Collateral Account;

(vii)

the Collateral transferred to LCH.Clearnet SA by such Clearing Member;

(viii)

deliveries and payments made by or to such Clearing Member; and

(ix)

any financial statements and other documents filed with LCH.Clearnet SA by such
Clearing Member,

in a confidential manner and shall not make such confidential information known to any other
person, save to the extent permitted by Article 1.2.12.2 to Article 1.2.12.5 below.
Article 1.2.12.2
LCH.Clearnet SA may, in accordance with the provisions of Article L. 632-17 of the French
Monetary and Financial Code, when applicable, disclose any information referred to in Article
1.2.12.1 above:
(i)

with the written consent of the relevant Clearing Member;

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

53

Published on 14 April 2016

(ii)

to any person to whom, at such times and in such manner as, LCH.Clearnet SA is required
or formally requested to disclose information pursuant to an order of a competent court, or
by or on behalf of any relevant Regulatory Body with respect to LCH.Clearnet SA and/or
the relevant Clearing Member, Client or Affiliate;

(iii)

to an Approved Trade Source System or the TIW, to the extent that such disclosure is
necessary for the proper performance by LCH.Clearnet SA or the relevant Clearing
Member of its obligations under the CDS Clearing Documentation;

(iv)

as expressly permitted by the CDS Clearing Documentation, including, without limitation,
to one or several Clearing Members, to the extent that such disclosure is necessary for the
proper management of an Event of Default or of an LCH Default and the implementation
by LCH.Clearnet SA and Clearing Members of physical settlement of the Cleared
Transactions, and the information thus disclosed by LCH.Clearnet SA shall be treated as
confidential information by the receiving Clearing Members and shall not be made known
to any other person nor used for any purpose other than that for which it has been
disclosed by LCH.Clearnet SA;

(v)

to other clearing houses, to which the relevant Clearing Member is admitted as a member
for the purpose of clearing CDS, in connection with the occurrence of an Event or an
Event of Default in respect of such Clearing Member; or

(vi)

to any other person (with the exception of ratings agencies including but not limited to
Moody’s, Standard and Poor’s and Fitch) to whom LCH.Clearnet SA is authorised to
disclose such information pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of Articles L.
511-33 and L. 511-34 of the French Monetary and Financial Code.

Article 1.2.12.3
LCH.Clearnet SA shall disclose to a Clearing Member, on request, details of the Regulatory
Body(ies) to whom it may disclose information, referred to in Article 1.2.12.1, pursuant to Article
1.2.12.2(ii).
Article 1.2.12.4
Where LCH.Clearnet SA is required or requested to disclose information referred to in Article
1.2.12.1 above in the circumstance described in Article 1.2.12.2(ii), the relevant Competent
Authorities will also be promptly informed of such disclosure.
Article 1.2.12.5
LCH.Clearnet SA may disclose any information referred to in Article 1.2.12.1 above to
LCH.Clearnet Group Limited, LCH.Clearnet Limited or LCH.Clearnet LLC, provided such recipient
is bound by equivalent obligations of confidentiality regarding this information as those set out in
this Section 1.2.12. Any such disclosure permitted under this Article 1.2.12.5 is limited to
disclosure which allows LCH.Clearnet SA to perform its obligations under the CDS Clearing
Documentation or for risk management purposes and no information is to be released for the
commercial benefit of LCH.Clearnet Group Limited, LCH.Clearnet Limited, LCH.Clearnet LLC or
any other Person.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

54

Published on 14 April 2016

Article 1.2.12.6
For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this Section 1.2.12 shall prevent a Clearing Member from
disclosing any information provided to LCH.Clearnet SA to Regulatory Body(ies) or other third
parties where required by Applicable Law.
Article 1.2.12.7
Where a Clearing Member owes a duty of confidentiality to LCH.Clearnet SA under the CDS
Clearing Documentation, that Clearing Member is released from that duty to the extent that such
disclosure is required under Applicable Law or by the Clearing Member's Competent Authority.

Section 1.2.13

Data protection

Article 1.2.13.1
For the purposes of its general administration, client and risk management and for the proper
performance by LCH.Clearnet SA of its obligations under the CDS Clearing Documentation and
Applicable Law and regulation, LCH.Clearnet SA, acting as data controller, processes personal
data concerning representatives, managers, employees or any other individuals acting on behalf of
the Clearing Members, in accordance with the Data Protection Law.
Article 1.2.13.2
LCH.Clearnet SA may disclose such personal data to such Persons and for such purposes as are
set out in Section 1.2.12 in accordance with the Data Protection Law.
Article 1.2.13.3
In accordance with the Data Protection Law, the individuals, in relation to whom personal data is
processed by LCH.Clearnet SA have the right (subject to payment of such fee to LCH.Clearnet SA
as is published on the Website, where LCH.Clearnet SA is lawfully entitled to levy such a fee) to
receive a copy of personal data held by LCH.Clearnet SA and to rectify any errors or inaccuracies
in such personal data or delete them, in accordance with the provisions of the Data Protection
Law,
by
contacting
the
membership
department
by
email
(Lchclearnetsa_Membership@lchclearnet.com). Without prejudice to any other rights that
individuals may have under the Data Protection Law, they may oppose the use of their personal
data by LCH.Clearnet SA for marketing operations.
Article 1.2.13.4
The Clearing Members declare that each of their Representatives in relation to whom personal
data is processed by LCH.Clearnet SA have been notified of the disclosure of their personal data
to LCH.Clearnet SA for the purposes set out in Article 1.2.13.3.
Article 1.2.13.5
LCH.Clearnet SA and each Clearing Member consents to the recording of telephone
conversations between the trading, marketing and other relevant personnel of the parties in
connection with conversations contemplated by the CDS Clearing Documentation, and agrees to
obtain any necessary consent of, and give any necessary notice of such recordings to, its relevant
personnel and agrees, subject to Applicable Law, that recordings may be used in evidence.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

55

Published on 14 April 2016

Section 1.2.14

Governing law

Article 1.2.14.1
The CDS Clearing Rules and the CDS Admission Agreement shall be governed by and construed
in accordance with French substantive law unless explicitly stated otherwise.
Article 1.2.14.2
The CDS Clearing Supplement, the ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions, any Cleared Transactions
(and any related definitions or Clearing Notices issued in respect of the CDS Clearing Supplement,
the ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions or any Cleared Transactions) shall be governed by and
construed in accordance with English substantive law.
Article 1.2.14.3
The Pledge Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with Belgian
substantive law.
Article 1.2.14.4
The FCM CDS Clearing Regulations (and any related definitions or Clearing Notices issued in
respect of the FCM CDS Clearing Regulations), shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to any conflicts of laws
principles, and the laws of the United States of America, in accordance with the terms of the FCM
CDS Clearing Regulations.
Article 1.2.14.5
Any non-contractual obligations (within the meaning of Regulation (EC) no. 864/2007 as may be
amended from time to time) arising out of, relating to, or having any connection with the CDS
Clearing Documentation, or any Cleared Transaction, shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with either: (i) French, substantive law; (ii) English substantive law; (iii) Belgian
substantive law; or (iv) the substantive law of the State of New York and the federal laws of the
United States of America, as determined by this Article 1.2.14.5. Such non-contractual obligations
shall be governed by and construed in accordance with:
(i)

French law, where the non-contractual obligation is more closely connected to the CDS
Clearing Rules (save the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol) or the CDS Admission
Agreement; or

(ii)

English law, where the non-contractual obligation is more closely connected to the CDS
Clearing Supplement, the ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions, the CDS Dispute Resolution
Protocol and/or any Cleared Transactions (and/or to any related definitions or Clearing
Notices issued in respect of the CDS Clearing Supplement, the ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions, the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol or any Cleared Transactions); or

(iii)

Belgian law, where the non-contractual obligation is more closely connected to the Pledge
Agreement; or

(iv)

the laws of the State of New York and the laws of the United States of America where the
non-contractual obligation is more closely connected to the FCM CDS Clearing
Regulations (and/or to any related definitions or Clearing Notices issued in respect of the
FCM CDS Clearing Regulations).

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

56

Published on 14 April 2016

Section 1.2.15

Dispute resolution

Article 1.2.15.1
All Disputes shall be referred to and finally resolved by arbitration or litigation as applicable in
accordance with the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol, subject to the provisions of Sections 8 and
9 of the Procedures.

Section 1.2.16

Default Interest

Article 1.2.16.1
If either LCH.Clearnet SA or a Clearing Member defaults in the performance of any payment
obligation, it will, to the extent permitted by Applicable Law, pay interest (before as well as after
judgment) on the overdue amount to the other party on demand in Euro, for the period from (and
including) the original due date for payment to (but excluding) the date of actual payment, at the
average rate at which overnight deposits in Euro are offered by major banks in the French interbank market as at 11.00 (or, if no such rate is available, at such reasonable rate as LCH.Clearnet
SA or, as applicable, the relevant Clearing Member may select) plus 1% per annum, for each day
for which any such sum remains unpaid provided that default interest payable in case of late
payment of fees due to LCH.Clearnet SA shall be as set out in the CDS Admission Agreement.

Section 1.2.17

Tax

Article 1.2.17.1
All payments under the CDS Clearing Documentation or any Cleared Transaction will be made
without any deduction or withholding for or on account of any Tax unless such deduction or
withholding is required by any applicable law, as modified by the practice of any relevant
governmental revenue authority, then in effect. If LCH.Clearnet SA or a Clearing Member is so
required to deduct or withhold, then LCH.Clearnet SA or the Clearing Member ("X") will:
(i)

promptly notify the recipient ("Y") of such requirement;

(ii)

pay to the relevant authorities the full amount required to be deducted or withheld (in the
case of a Clearing Member as X, including the full amount required to be deducted or
withheld from any amount paid by the Clearing Member to LCH.Clearnet SA under Article
1.2.17.1, Article 1.2.17.2 or Article 1.2.17.3) promptly upon the earlier of determining that
such deduction or withholding is required or receiving notice that such amount has been
assessed against Y;

(iii)

promptly forward to Y an official receipt (or a certified copy), or other documentation
reasonably acceptable to Y, evidencing such payment to such authorities.

For the purpose of the CDS Clearing Documentation and Cleared Transactions, "Tax" shall mean
any present or future tax, levy, impost, duty, charge, assessment, or fee of any nature (including
interest, penalties, and additions thereto) that is imposed by any government or other taxing
authority.
Article 1.2.17.2
In the event that any payment made by a Clearing Member to LCH.Clearnet SA under the CDS
Clearing Documentation or any Cleared Transaction is subject to deduction or withholding (either
at the time of such payment or in the future) for or on account of any Tax (other than a Tax that
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

57

Published on 14 April 2016

would not have been imposed in respect of such payment but for a present or former connection
between the jurisdiction of the government or taxation authority imposing such Tax and
LCH.Clearnet SA), then the Clearing Member shall pay to LCH.Clearnet SA an amount (such
amount, together with any additional amount paid pursuant to Article 1.2.17.7, the "Additional
Amount"), in addition to the payment to which LCH.Clearnet SA is otherwise entitled under the
CDS Clearing Documentation or any Cleared Transaction, necessary to ensure that the net
amount actually received by LCH.Clearnet SA (free and clear of any such deduction or withholding
for or on account of any such Tax, whether assessed against the Clearing Member or
LCH.Clearnet SA), will equal the full amount LCH.Clearnet SA would have received in the absence
of any such deduction or withholding.
However, a Clearing Member will not be required to pay any Additional Amount to LCH.Clearnet
SA under this Article 1.2.17.2 to the extent that it would not be required to be paid but for (i) the
failure by LCH.Clearnet SA to provide to the Clearing Member such forms and documents as
required under Article 1.2.17.5 or the CDS Admission Agreement, provided that this clause (i) shall
apply only if (A) the relevant Clearing Member has notified LCH.Clearnet SA in writing of such
failure and (B) LCH.Clearnet SA has failed to provide such forms or documents within five
Business Days after the receipt of such notice; or (ii) the failure of a tax representation made by
LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to the CDS Admission Agreement between LCH.Clearnet SA and the
Clearing Member to be accurate and true (unless the failure under this clause (ii) would not have
occurred but for (A) any action taken by a taxing authority, or brought in a court of competent
jurisdiction (regardless of whether such action is taken or brought with respect to a party to the
relevant CDS Admission Agreement) or (B) a Change in Tax Law, that in each case occurs after
LCH.Clearnet SA and the Clearing Member enter into the relevant CDS Admission Agreement (or,
if applicable, the date that LCH.Clearnet SA and the Clearing Member amend such CDS
Admission Agreement to account for such Change in Tax Law)) or a failure by LCH.Clearnet SA to
provide the representations that it is obligated to provide pursuant to Article 1.2.17.10 below.
In the event that the failure under clause (ii) of the preceding paragraph would not have occurred
but for the reasons described under sub-clause (A) or (B) thereof, LCH.Clearnet SA shall use
commercially reasonable efforts to provide to the Clearing Member a new tax representation (to
the extent that it is appropriate) for the purpose of the relevant CDS Admission Agreement
between LCH.Clearnet SA and the Clearing Member, promptly after the learning of such failure (so
long as the provision of such representation would not materially prejudice the legal or commercial
position of LCH.Clearnet SA).
A Clearing Member will also not be required to pay any Additional Amount to LCH.Clearnet SA
under this Article 1.2.17.2 for any tax (a "FATCA Withholding Tax") imposed under U.S. Internal
Revenue Code Sections 1471, 1472, 1473 or 1474 (or any successor sections that are
substantially similar) and any regulation or authoritative guidance promulgated thereunder
(collectively, the "FATCA Rules") provided that such FATCA Withholding Tax would not have been
imposed but for LCH.Clearnet SA's failure to comply with the FATCA Rules.
For the purpose of this Article 1.2.17.2, "Change in Tax Law" means the enactment,
promulgation, execution or ratification of, or any change in or amendment to, any law (or in the
application or official interpretation of any law).
Article 1.2.17.3
If: (i) a Clearing Member is required by any applicable law, as modified by the practice of any
relevant governmental revenue authority, to make any deduction or withholding from any payment
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

58

Published on 14 April 2016

made to LCH.Clearnet SA under the CDS Clearing Documentation or any Cleared Transaction for
or on account of any Tax, in respect of which the Clearing Member would be required to pay an
Additional Amount to LCH.Clearnet SA under Article 1.2.17.2; (ii) the Clearing Member does not so
deduct or withhold; and (iii) a liability resulting from such Tax is assessed directly against
LCH.Clearnet SA, then, except to the extent the Clearing Member has satisfied or then satisfies
the liability resulting from such Tax, the Clearing Member will promptly pay to LCH.Clearnet SA the
amount of such liability (including any related liability for interest, penalties and costs).
Article 1.2.17.4
If: (i) LCH.Clearnet SA is required by any applicable law, as modified by the practice of any
relevant governmental revenue authority, to make any deduction or withholding from any payment
made to a Clearing Member under the CDS Clearing Documentation or any Cleared Transaction
for or on account of any Tax; (ii) LCH.Clearnet SA does not so deduct or withhold; and (iii) a
liability resulting from such Tax is assessed directly against LCH.Clearnet SA, then, except to the
extent the Clearing Member has satisfied or then satisfies the liability resulting from such Tax, the
Clearing Member will promptly pay to LCH.Clearnet SA the amount of such liability (excluding any
related liability for interest, penalties and costs).
Article 1.2.17.5
LCH.Clearnet SA shall provide to each Clearing Member (i) the tax forms and documents specified
in the CDS Admission Agreement between LCH.Clearnet SA and the Clearing Member and (ii) any
other form or document reasonably requested in writing by the Clearing Member in order to allow
the Clearing Member to make a payment under the CDS Clearing Documentation or any Cleared
Transaction without deduction or withholding for or on account of any Tax or with such deduction
or withholding at a reduced rate (so long as the completion, execution or submission of such form
or document as described in this clause (ii) would not materially prejudice the legal or commercial
position of LCH.Clearnet SA).
Article 1.2.17.6
LCH.Clearnet SA shall request from each Clearing Member: (i) the tax forms and documents
specified in the CDS Admission Agreement between LCH.Clearnet SA and the Clearing Member
and (ii) any other form or document reasonably requested in order to allow LCH.Clearnet SA to
make a payment under the CDS Clearing Documentation or any Cleared Transaction without
deduction or withholding for or on account of any Tax or with such deduction or withholding at a
reduced rate. For the avoidance of doubt, in the event that any payment made by LCH.Clearnet
SA to a Clearing Member under the CDS Clearing Documentation or any Cleared Transaction is
subject to deduction or withholding (either at the time of such payment or in the future) for or on
account of any Tax, LCH.Clearnet SA is not required to pay any additional amount in respect of
such deduction or withholding. LCH.Clearnet SA will, at the Clearing Member’s expense, use
commercially reasonable efforts to cooperate with a Clearing Member to seek any credit or
remission or other relief available with respect to any such Tax so deducted or withheld (so long as
such cooperation would not, in LCH.Clearnet SA’s judgment, materially prejudice the legal or
commercial position of LCH.Clearnet SA).
Article 1.2.17.7
Each Clearing Member will pay any stamp, registration, documentation, excise, sales or value
added Tax or any other similar Tax levied or imposed upon it or in respect of its execution or
performance of any agreement, contract or transaction in connection with the CDS Clearing
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

59

Published on 14 April 2016

Documentation and will indemnify LCH.Clearnet SA against any such stamp, registration,
documentation, excise, sales or value added Tax (to the extent that LCH.Clearnet SA is not able,
in LCH.Clearnet SA’s commercially reasonable judgment, to reclaim or recover such value added
Tax) or any other similar Tax levied or imposed upon LCH.Clearnet SA or in respect of
LCH.Clearnet SA’s execution or performance of any agreement, contract or transaction in
connection with the CDS Clearing Documentation. Any payment required to be made by a
Clearing Member to LCH.Clearnet SA under this Article 1.2.17.7 shall include an additional amount
equal to any Tax levied or imposed on LCH.Clearnet SA as a result of the receipt of any payment
under this Article 1.2.17.7.
Article 1.2.17.8
Each Clearing Member shall promptly notify LCH.Clearnet SA in writing upon learning that any
payment made by LCH.Clearnet SA to the Clearing Member or by the Clearing Member to
LCH.Clearnet SA under the CDS Clearing Documentation is subject to any Tax, other than any Tax
imposed or levied based on the net income of the Clearing Member or LCH.Clearnet SA, as
applicable.
Article 1.2.17.9
Clearing Members shall not have any termination or other special rights in respect of Cleared
Transactions as a result of the occurrence of adverse Tax consequences, whether relating to a
Change in Tax Law or otherwise, it being understood that Clearing Members may, in accordance
with the CDS Clearing Documentation, submit for clearing Original Transactions that, if accepted,
would offset its Cleared Transaction. If so requested by a Clearing Member for the purpose of
reducing adverse Tax consequences to such Clearing Member, LCH.Clearnet SA shall use
reasonable efforts to expeditiously review an application for status as a Clearing Member
submitted by an Affiliate of such requesting Clearing Member.
Article 1.2.17.10
LCH.Clearnet SA shall provide such representations and documentation as are required and
requested by each Clearing Member such that each Clearing Member can make payments to
LCH.Clearnet SA without deduction or withholding being applicable.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

60

Published on 14 April 2016

CHAPTER 3 - LCH DEFAULT

Section 1.3.1
Article 1.3.1.1
Any of the following events shall, on the service of notice in accordance with Article 1.3.1.2,
constitute an LCH Default:
(i)

LCH.Clearnet SA has failed to make a payment, or to redeliver Eligible Collateral when
such payment or redelivery is due and payable in accordance with the CDS Clearing
Documentation, to a Clearing Member (other than to a Defaulting Clearing Member or in
accordance with the first paragraph of Article 1.2.9.2) under any Cleared Transaction and
such failure has not been cured by 17.00 on the third Business Day after the date on
which notice of such failure is given by the Clearing Member to LCH.Clearnet SA;

(ii)

LCH.Clearnet SA notifies the Clearing Members stating that it is unable to pay the
aggregate amount of the Margin Repayment Amounts or redeliver all relevant Pledged
Eligible Collateral pursuant to Clause 8.6 of the CDS Default Management Process or fails
to pay an LCH Repayment Amount when due by LCH.Clearnet SA to a Clearing Member
in full pursuant to Clause 8.7 of the CDS Default Management Process (other than by
operation of Clause 7.8 of the CDS Default Management Process); or

(iii)

LCH.Clearnet SA becomes subject to LCH Insolvency Proceedings.

In the event LCH.Clearnet SA becomes subject to LCH Insolvency Proceedings, LCH.Clearnet SA
shall as soon as reasonably practicable, and no later than 23.59 on the Business Day on which the
LCH Insolvency Proceedings commence (or, if such day is not a Business Day, no later than 23.59
on the first Business Day following the day on which the LCH Insolvency Proceedings commence),
post a notice on the Website informing all Clearing Members of such circumstance. A failure to
provide such notice shall not prohibit an Affected Clearing Member from posting the notice
specified in Article 1.3.1.2.
Copies of any notices provided under Article 1.3.1.1(i) or (ii) shall be provided by LCH.Clearnet SA
to the Autorité de Contrôle Prudentiel et de Résolution.
Article 1.3.1.2
In the event of any of the circumstances set out in Article 1.3.1.1 occurring, the Affected Clearing
Member may provide LCH.Clearnet SA in writing with a notice, specifying the occurrence of an
LCH Default. In the circumstance set out in Article 1.3.1.1(i) and (ii), such notice shall only be valid
if given within 10 Clearing Days of the occurrence of the relevant event and the failure to pay or
redeliver is continuing at the time the notice is delivered. In the circumstance set out in Article
1.3.1.1(iii), such notice shall only be valid if given within 10 Clearing Days of the day on which LCH
Insolvency Proceedings have been published in the Bulletin officiel des annonces civiles et
commerciales (Bodacc) in accordance with the provisions of the French Commercial Code. Any
such notice provided in accordance with this Article 1.3.1.2 must be provided in accordance with,
and subject to, the requirements of Section 1.2.5.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

61

Published on 14 April 2016

An Affected Clearing Member shall not be permitted to serve a notice pursuant to this Article
1.3.1.2 in the case of the circumstances set out in Article 1.3.1.1(i) and (ii) where:
(i)

the failure to make the required payment, or to redeliver the required Eligible Collateral,
and the failure to cure such failure within the grace period specified in Article 1.3.1.1, is
solely as a consequence of a Force Majeure Event or such other technical or
administrative reason outside of the reasonable control of LCH.Clearnet SA, provided that:
(a) LCH.Clearnet SA is able to, and does, confirm that it would have had sufficient
available resources to pay or redeliver but for the applicable Force Majeure Event,
technical or administrative event; and (b) LCH.Clearnet SA makes such payment or
delivery no later than one Clearing Day after the consequences of the Force Majeure
Event or the other technical or administrative reason for its failure to pay or redeliver have
ceased. For the avoidance of doubt, the limitation on an Affected Clearing Member serving
a notice pursuant to this paragraph shall continue for as long as the consequence of a
Force Majeure Event or such other technical or administrative reason mentioned above
continues;

(ii)

the failure to pay or redeliver is permitted by the CDS Default Management Process.

For the purposes of Article 1.3.1.3 to Article 1.3.1.12, a notice duly provided by an Affected
Clearing Member in accordance with this Article 1.3.1.2 shall bind LCH.Clearnet SA and all other
Clearing Members (regardless of whether they are Affected Clearing Members or not) as if all
other Clearing Members were Affected Clearing Members and had served such notice.
Article 1.3.1.3
In the event that it is subject to an LCH Default, LCH.Clearnet SA shall promptly post a Clearing
Notice on its Website specifying the Termination Date and the LCH Default Time applicable to all
Clearing Members. The Termination Date shall be the first Clearing Day after the LCH Default
Date. Any failure of LCH.Clearnet SA to post a Clearing Notice on its Website shall not invalidate
or otherwise delay the Termination Date.
As from the LCH Default Time:
(i)

LCH.Clearnet SA shall not accept any Original Transactions submitted to it for clearing and
registration as Cleared Transactions and shall not otherwise register any new Cleared
Transactions;

(ii)

neither LCH.Clearnet SA nor any Clearing Member shall be obliged to make any further
payments or deliveries under any Cleared Transaction between them which would, but for
this TITLE I, Chapter 3, have fallen due for performance on or after the LCH Default Time
other than by settlement of the House Termination Amount and Client Termination Amount;
and any obligations to make further payments or deliveries which would otherwise have
fallen due shall be satisfied by settlement (whether by payment, set off or otherwise) of the
House Termination Amount and Client Termination Amount;

(iii)

any Power of Attorney or other authority for LCH.Clearnet SA to debit any payment or
securities account of a Clearing Member, including a Clearing Member’s TARGET2
Account shall be revoked and LCH.Clearnet SA shall not use, rely on or seek to use or rely
on any such Power of Attorney or other authority;

(iv)

in circumstances where Client Collateral Buffer has been allocated to a CCM Client
Account Structure in accordance with Article 4.2.2.4 and Section 2 of the Procedures,

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

62

Published on 14 April 2016

LCH.Clearnet SA shall transfer an amount of Collateral which is equal to the CCM
Allocated Client Collateral Buffer for the relevant CCM Client Account Structure from the
Buffer Collateral Account to the CCM Client Collateral Account of that CCM Client Account
Structure as soon as reasonably practicable;
(v)

where a CCM has CCM Unallocated Client Collateral, such CCM shall use its reasonable
endeavours to notify LCH.Clearnet SA of the CCM Client Collateral Account(s) to which
such Collateral should be recorded and, where LCH.Clearnet SA receives such
notification, it shall update its books and records accordingly; and

(vi)

all other payment and delivery obligations (other than as set out in (ii) above) in relation to
any Cleared Transactions and any other obligations pursuant to the CDS Clearing
Documentation (including the repayment or redelivery, as applicable, of a Clearing
Member’s Margin Balance, Excess Collateral, CCM Unallocated Client Collateral, the
Client Collateral Buffer, FCM Unallocated Client Excess Collateral, and other Collateral
representing a Clearing Member’s Contribution Requirement) shall be payable or
deliverable on the Termination Date and in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter
3.

LCH.Clearnet SA shall, to the extent possible, return or redeliver all amounts received, or debited
contrary to the revocation of its authority pursuant to sub-paragraph (iii), after the LCH Default
Time.
Article 1.3.1.4
Each Clearing Member shall, on, or as soon as reasonably practicable after, the Termination Date,
and in no event later than 25 Clearing Days after the Termination Date, determine as of the
Termination Date:
(i)

the value of each Cleared Transaction; and

(ii)

the value of all other amounts which it owes to LCH.Clearnet SA and which LCH.Clearnet
SA owes to it, in each case whether future, liquidated or unliquidated, actual or contingent,
pursuant to the CDS Clearing Documentation.

Such calculations shall be undertaken separately in respect of the Client Cleared Transactions
registered in, and all other amounts owed in relation to, each Client Trade Account, Client Margin
Account and CCM Client Collateral Account or FCM Client Financial Account (as applicable), for
each Client Account Structure of the Clearing Member.
Article 1.3.1.5
For the purpose of Article 1.3.1.4(i) and where the LCH Default arises because of the
circumstance set out in Article 1.3.1.1(i) or Article 1.3.1.1(ii), the determination by a Clearing
Member of the value of each Cleared Transaction shall be determined, assuming satisfaction of
each applicable condition precedent, without reference to the receipt or payment of Variation
Margin in relation to any Cleared Transaction (or, for the avoidance of doubt, any part of the
Margin Balance and Client Collateral Buffer) and without application of the Loss Distribution
Process (if applicable) subject that each Clearing Member may take into account, in addition, any
loss of bargain, any cost of funding, and/or without duplication, any loss or, as the case may be,
gain as a result of the termination, liquidation, obtaining, performing or re-establishing of any
hedge or related trading position.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

63

Published on 14 April 2016

Article 1.3.1.6
For the purpose of Article 1.3.1.4, and in relation to Client Cleared Transactions recorded in and
amounts owed in relation to each Client Account Structure, the Clearing Member shall calculate
the value of:
(i)

the repayment by the Clearing Member or LCH.Clearnet SA of Variation Margin in respect
of Open Positions registered in the corresponding Client Margin Account;

(ii)

the repayment or redelivery by LCH.Clearnet SA of all Collateral recorded in the relevant
Client Collateral Account (including, in the case of a CCM, any Collateral transferred (or
due to be transferred) to the relevant CCM Client Collateral Account by LCH.Clearnet SA
pursuant to Article 1.3.1.3(iv) and further, in the case of an FCM Clearing Member, the
Legally Segregated Value ascribed to the FCM Client Financial Account) in respect of such
Client Cleared Transactions, as the case may be, in each case without applying any
haircuts to the valuation of the Collateral. In determining such amounts, the Clearing
Member shall not take into account (a) Client Pledged Eligible Collateral returned to a
CCM in accordance with the CDS Clearing Rules; (b) any CDS Client Clearing Entitlement
calculated in accordance with Clause 4.4 of the CDS Default Management Process; or (c)
any Collateral applied by LCH.Clearnet SA in order to reduce its loss in accordance with
Article 4.3.3.1 or the CDS Default Management Process;

(iii)

in the case of an FCM Clearing Member, the repayment or redelivery by LCH.Clearnet SA
of all Collateral recorded as Available Client Collateral Buffer in its FCM Buffer Financial
Account (if any) in each case without applying any haircuts to the valuation of the
Collateral;

(iv)

in the case of an FCM Clearing Member, the repayment or redelivery by LCH.Clearnet SA
of all Collateral recorded as Allocated Client Collateral Buffer in its FCM Buffer Financial
Account (if any) in each case without applying any haircuts to the valuation of the
Collateral;

(v)

in the event that the relevant Client Margin Account of the Clearing Member is a Cash
Gainer as at the last successful payment of Margin prior to the LCH Default Date, the
repayment by LCH.Clearnet SA of any net Cash Gainer Adjustments made pursuant to the
CDS Default Management Process; and

(vi)

any other amounts that may be due to or from either the Clearing Member or
LCH.Clearnet SA to or from the other in relation to the relevant Client Cleared
Transactions, pursuant to the CDS Clearing Documentation.

For the purpose of Article 1.3.1.4, and in relation to House Cleared Transactions recorded in and
amounts owed in relation to its House Account Structure, the Clearing Member shall calculate the
value of:
(i)

the repayment by the Clearing Member or LCH.Clearnet SA of Variation Margin in respect
of Open Positions registered in its House Margin Account;

(ii)

the repayment or redelivery by LCH.Clearnet SA of all Collateral recorded in its House
Collateral Account in respect of such House Cleared Transactions, without applying any
haircuts to the valuation of the Collateral. In determining such amounts, the Clearing
Member shall not take into account (a) Pledged Eligible Collateral returned to the Clearing
Member in accordance with the CDS Clearing Rules; or (b) any Collateral applied by

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

64

Published on 14 April 2016

LCH.Clearnet SA in order to reduce its loss in accordance with Article 4.3.3.1 or the CDS
Default Management Process;
(iii)

in the case of a CCM, the repayment or redelivery by LCH.Clearnet SA of all Collateral
recorded as CCM Available Client Collateral Buffer in its Buffer Collateral Account (if any)
in each case without applying any haircuts to the valuation of the Collateral;

(iv)

in the event that the House Margin Account of the Clearing Member is a Cash Gainer as at
the last successful payment of Margin prior to the LCH Default Date, the repayment by
LCH.Clearnet SA of any net Cash Gainer Adjustments made pursuant to the CDS Default
Management Process; and

(v)

any other amounts that may be due to or from either the Clearing Member or
LCH.Clearnet SA to or from the other in relation to the relevant House Cleared
Transactions, pursuant to the CDS Clearing Documentation.

Where the LCH Default arises because of the circumstance set out in Article 1.3.1.1(ii), each
Clearing Member shall use such amounts calculated by LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to Clause 8.2(i)
of the CDS Default Management Process (and without, for the avoidance of doubt, applying
Clause 8.3) for the purposes of its valuation pursuant to Article 1.3.1.4(ii).
Article 1.3.1.7
For the purposes of any calculation required to be made under this Chapter 3, any sums
calculated other than in Euro shall be converted into Euro at the relevant exchange rate as at
17.00 on the Termination Date. The relevant exchange rate shall be determined by the European
Central Bank and taken from Reuters or, where not available for the relevant currency, such other
provider as is notified in a Clearing Notice.
Article 1.3.1.8
Pursuant to the determination made under Article 1.3.1.4:
(i)

each gain by the Clearing Member and each other amount which LCH.Clearnet SA owes
to it, shall be treated as a positive amount; and

(ii)

each loss suffered by the Clearing Member and each other amount which it owes to
LCH.Clearnet SA shall be treated as a negative amount.

Article 1.3.1.9
A Clearing Member shall, as applicable:
(i)

with respect to its House Account Structure, aggregate all positive and negative amounts
related to House Cleared Transactions calculated in accordance with Article 1.3.1.4 to
Article 1.3.1.6 above in order to produce one net termination amount (the "House
Termination Amount"); and

(ii)

(a)

in the case of a CCM, with respect to each of its CCM Client Account Structures,
aggregate: (I) all positive and negative amounts related to Client Cleared
Transactions registered in the CCM Client Trade Account(s) of a CCM Individual
Segregated Account Structure, calculated in accordance with Article 1.3.1.4 to
Article 1.3.1.6 above, in order to produce one net termination amount for such
CCM Individual Segregated Account Structure; (II) all positive and negative
amounts related to Client Cleared Transactions registered in the CCM Client Trade

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

65

Published on 14 April 2016

Accounts of CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account Clients in a single CCM Net
Omnibus Client Set, calculated in accordance with Article 1.3.1.4 to Article 1.3.1.6
above, in order to produce one net termination amount for such CCM Net
Omnibus Client Set; and (III) all positive and negative amounts related to Client
Cleared Transactions registered in the CCM Client Trade Accounts of CCM Gross
Omnibus Segregated Account Clients in a single CCM Gross Omnibus Client Set,
calculated in accordance with Article 1.3.1.4 to Article 1.3.1.6 above, in order to
produce one net termination amount for such CCM Gross Omnibus Client Set
(each a "CCM Client Termination Amount"); or
(b)

in the case of an FCM Clearing Member, with respect to its FCM Client Account
Structure, aggregate: (I) all positive and negative amounts related to Client
Cleared Transactions registered in each FCM Client Trade Account, calculated in
accordance with Article 1.3.1.4 to Article 1.3.1.6 above, in order to produce one
net termination amount for each such FCM Client Trade Account; and (II) all
positive and negative amounts calculated pursuant to the foregoing clause (I), in
order to produce one net termination amount for all FCM Client Trade Accounts of
the FCM Clearing Member (such amount calculated pursuant to this clause (II), an
“FCM Client Termination Amount”).

For the avoidance of doubt, when calculating:
(i)

the House Termination Amount in accordance with this Article 1.3.1.9, a Clearing
Member’s obligations to LCH.Clearnet SA may never be set off: (x) with amounts
attributable to any Client Collateral Account; (y) in the case of a CCM, with amounts
attributable to the CCM Unallocated Client Collateral Account; or (z) in the case of an FCM
Clearing Member, with amounts attributable to the FCM Buffer Financial Account or the
FCM Unallocated Client Collateral Financial Account; and

(ii)

a Client Termination Amount in accordance with this Article 1.3.1.9, a Clearing
Member’s obligations to LCH.Clearnet SA may never be set off: (x) with amounts
attributable to the House Collateral Account; (y) in the case of a CCM, with amounts
attributable to the CCM Unallocated Client Collateral Account; or (z) in the case of a CCM,
with amounts attributable to another Client Account Structure.

To the extent a Clearing Member is a member of another clearing service(s) provided by
LCH.Clearnet SA, such Clearing Member shall aggregate the House Termination Amount and the
house termination amount calculated in respect of a house account structure held in connection
with such other clearing service(s) where LCH.Clearnet SA is subject to an LCH Default in
accordance with the CDS Clearing Rules and a default in accordance with rules applicable to such
other clearing service(s), in order to produce one net termination amount owed in relation to the
CDS Clearing Service and such other clearing service(s) provided by LCH.Clearnet SA (the
“Global House Termination Amount”).
The Global House Termination Amount shall be notified and paid in accordance with Article 1.3.1.9
to Article 1.3.1.11.
The Clearing Member shall notify LCH.Clearnet SA of the Termination Amounts, by which party
each such Termination Amount is payable, and showing in reasonable detail how they have been
calculated, immediately after the calculation thereof.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

66

Published on 14 April 2016

If for any reason one or more Clearing Member(s) fail(s) to determine and notify the Termination
Amounts to LCH.Clearnet SA on or before the day falling 25 Clearing Days after the Termination
Date (such day being the "Notification Limit Date"), LCH.Clearnet SA shall post a notice on the
Website and make its own determination of the respective Termination Amounts, in respect of each
such Clearing Member(s) within the 25 Clearing Days following the Notification Limit Date, and
shall notify the relevant Clearing Member(s) of the respective Termination Amounts it has
determined immediately after the calculation thereof. In such case, the LCH Default Payment Date
for all Clearing Members shall be the second Clearing Day after the date on which the Termination
Amountshave been notified by LCH.Clearnet SA; if, however, LCH.Clearnet SA fails to make such
determination and notification, the LCH Default Payment Date in respect of all Clearing Members
having duly determined and notified their Termination Amounts to LCH.Clearnet SA shall be the
th
27 Clearing Day following the Notification Limit Date.
If any of the Termination Amounts is a positive amount, LCH.Clearnet SA shall pay it to the
Clearing Member and, if any of the Termination Amounts is a negative amount, the Clearing
Member shall pay it to LCH.Clearnet SA, in each case in accordance with Article 1.3.1.10 below.
Article 1.3.1.10
The Termination Amounts in respect of each Clearing Member shall be paid by LCH.Clearnet SA
or a Clearing Member, as the case may be, in Euro by 17:00 on the LCH Default Payment Date.
Neither LCH.Clearnet SA nor a Clearing Member, as the case may be, shall be permitted to effect
payment netting between the House Termination Amount, or the Global House Termination
Amount as applicable, on the one hand and the Client Termination Amounts on the other hand.
In addition, to the extent a CCM has any CCM Unallocated Client Collateral or an FCM Clearing
Member has any FCM Unallocated Client Excess Collateral as at the Notification Limit Date,
LCH.Clearnet SA shall repay such Collateral to the Clearing Member for the account of its Clients
by 17:00 on the LCH Default Payment Date.
Article 1.3.1.11
If LCH.Clearnet SA has received notices pursuant to Article 1.3.1.9 from all Clearing Members
setting out their respective Termination Amounts, LCH.Clearnet SA may by no less than 2 Clearing
Days’ notice on the Website specify an earlier date as the LCH Default Payment Date.
In addition, LCH.Clearnet SA shall redeliver all Pledged Eligible Collateral (other than Pledged
Eligible Collateral which LCH.Clearnet SA has applied in order to reduce its loss in accordance
with Article 4.3.3.1 or the CDS Default Management Process) on the LCH Default Payment Date.
Article 1.3.1.12
The Clearing Member's rights under this Chapter 3 shall be in addition to, and not in limitation or
exclusion of, any other rights which the Clearing Member may have.
This Chapter 3 shall be without prejudice to the rights that LCH.Clearnet SA may have pursuant to
the CDS Clearing Rules against any Clearing Member prior to the occurrence of the LCH Default.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

67

Published on 14 April 2016

TITLE II
MEMBERSHIP

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

68

Published on 14 April 2016

CHAPTER 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 2.1.1 Participants
Article 2.1.1.1
As a securities settlement system within the meaning of the Settlement Finality Directive,
LCH.Clearnet SA has only direct participants, being the Clearing Members. It does not have any
indirect participants.
Article 2.1.1.2
The following entities are eligible to become a Clearing Member, pursuant to Article L. 440-2 of the
French Monetary and Financial Code:
(i)

Credit Institutions, having their head office in a Member State;

(ii)

Investment Firms, having their head office in a Member State;

(iii)

legal persons whose members or shareholders have unlimited joint and several liability for
their debts and obligations, provided that such members or shareholders are institutions or
firms mentioned under Article 2.1.1.2(i) and/or (ii) above;

(iv)

legal persons having their head office in metropolitan France or in French overseas
departments or in Saint-Barthélemy or Saint-Martin and whose principal or sole object is
the clearing of financial instruments; and

(v)

in the circumstances set out in the general regulations of the AMF and with the prior
approval of the AMF, Credit Institutions and Investment Firms not having their head office
in a Member State, and legal persons whose principal or sole object is the clearing of
financial instruments, that are not established in metropolitan France or in French
overseas departments or in Saint-Barthélemy or Saint-Martin. An agreement between the
AMF and the relevant Governmental Authority(ies) may provide for an exemption from
prior authorisation for a category of entities.

Without prejudice to the membership requirements set out in the CDS Clearing Rules and
Applicable Law, FCMs are eligible to become FCM Clearing Members.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

69

Published on 14 April 2016

CHAPTER 2 - LEGAL OBLIGATIONS
Article 2.2.0.1
An Applicant shall be required to evidence its ability to comply with the obligations set out in this
Chapter 2. LCH.Clearnet SA may refuse to admit an Applicant as a Clearing Member if the
conditions set out in Article 2.2.1.1 have not been satisfied, or if it considers that admission of such
Applicant as a Clearing Member may adversely affect the operation of the CDS Clearing System
or the provision of the CDS Clearing Service.
LCH.Clearnet SA shall be entitled, in consultation with the Risk Committee, at any time to impose,
amend or withdraw additional requirements in relation to the membership requirements set out in
this Chapter 2, provided that, if such additional requirements are imposed or amended, they are
non-discriminatory and their objective is to control the risk for LCH.Clearnet SA.
Further information in respect of the application procedure can be obtained from
LCH.Clearnet SA’s CDSClear Member Sales & Relationship Management team whose contact
details are set out in Section 1 of the Procedures.
Article 2.2.0.2
Application for Clearing Member status in LCH.Clearnet SA shall be made in accordance with
Section 1 of the Procedures. A Clearing Member’s status in LCH.Clearnet SA and all Clearing
Services shall be governed by the CDS Clearing Rules. Additionally, a Clearing Member’s status in
LCH.Clearnet SA shall be governed by any CDS Admission Agreement to which it is for the time
being party. Clearing Member status does not provide or entitle a Clearing Member to any other
clearing member status with LCH.Clearnet SA, or to any shareholding membership of
LCH.Clearnet Limited or any shareholding or other membership of any other member of the
LCH.Clearnet Group or any entitlement to membership of or participation in LCH.Clearnet SA,
each of which has separate and distinct membership requirements.

Section 2.2.1 Membership requirements
Article 2.2.1.1
Any Applicant wishing to be admitted as a Clearing Member by LCH.Clearnet SA should satisfy
the following conditions:
(i)

be validly incorporated and existing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation and (if
relevant in such jurisdiction) be in good standing;

(ii)

be the subject of supervision by its Competent Authorities;

(iii)

undertake to accept and comply with the CDS Clearing Documentation by executing the
CDS Admission Agreement;

(iv)

have a CDS Client Clearing Agreement, meeting the requirements Article 5.1.1.2 (i) (in the
case of a CCM) or Article 6.1.1.2 (in the case of an FCM Clearing Member), in place with
each of its Clients;

(v)

provide LCH.Clearnet SA with updated documentation and information required pursuant
to Section 1 of the Procedures, in respect of each of its Clients;

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

70

Published on 14 April 2016

(vi)

to accept to comply with all Applicable Law relating to its status as a Clearing Member and
the performance of its obligations pursuant to the CDS Clearing Documentation;

(vii)

not be subject to Insolvency Proceedings;

(viii)

meet the Capital requirements as specified in Section 2.2.3, and any further liquidity
and/or solvency requirements as may be set by LCH.Clearnet SA from time to time in
accordance with this CDS Clearing Rule Book, taking into account notably the indicators
mentioned in Article 2.3.2.1;

(ix)

satisfy a minimum internal credit score which is determined by LCH.Clearnet SA as set out
in Article 2.2.4.1 below;

(x)

satisfy LCH.Clearnet SA that it has sufficient expertise in relation to clearing activities, that
its Systems and Operations are operationally reliable and capable of supporting the proper
performance of its business as a Clearing Member and that its risk management policy is
adequate;

(xi)

participate, or demonstrate that it has: (A) an affiliated Clearing Member or, alternatively, a
non-clearing member Affiliate that clears through the Clearing Member, that can
successfully participate; or (B) an LCH Approved Outsourcing Agent that can successfully
participate in the implementation of the CDS Default Management Process, and
participate in (and satisfy LCH.Clearnet SA's requirements with respect to the carrying out
of) regular fire drills run by LCH.Clearnet SA from time to time, in accordance with this
CDS Clearing Rule Book;

(xii)

have nominated and notified to LCH.Clearnet SA:
(a)

a Person, having director, general partner, trustee or officer status at the Clearing
Member (or a Person occupying a similar status or performing similar functions)
who is both responsible for the clearing operations of the Clearing Member and
authorised to act on behalf of the Clearing Member in respect of all transactions
with or involving LCH.Clearnet SA; and

(b)

an alternate Person that satisfies the requirements set out in sub-paragraph (a)
above and who is authorised to act on behalf of the Clearing Member in the event
that the first Person is incapable or unable to act;

(xiii)

pay all fees and other amounts required by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with the CDS
Clearing Documentation, including, without limitation, satisfying its Margin Requirement, its
Contribution Requirement and its Cash Payment obligations;

(xiv)

be in a position to provide Collateral in satisfaction of its Margin Requirements and its
Contribution Requirement, and to perform Cash Payment obligations, including:
(a)

submitting evidence and details of duly existing cash accounts (including, at least,
one TARGET2 Account and one cash account in US Dollar) for the purposes of
payment of cash amounts, as well as evidence that a Power of Attorney has been
issued in favour of LCH.Clearnet SA to allow the debiting or crediting of such cash
accounts for the performance of Cash Payment obligations and the provision of
Cash Collateral; and

(b)

having in place all appropriate settlement solutions (direct access or indirect
access to at least one settlement system) in case of Physical Settlement;

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

71

Published on 14 April 2016

(xv)

have at its disposal the technical environment, including facilities, equipment, operational
capability, personnel, hardware and software systems as may be required to support the
proper performance of its business as a Clearing Member, including such IT links as may
be necessary for it to be connected to the CDS Clearing System managed by
LCH.Clearnet SA;

(xvi)

have operational competence in CDS substantially similar to Original Transactions eligible
for clearing by LCH.Clearnet SA;

(xvii)

be a TIW Participant for the purposes of maintaining Original Transactions and Cleared
Transactions in the TIW;

(xviii)

be an ATSS Participant for the purpose of submitting Original Transactions for clearing;

(xix)

have access to one of the means of access and reporting mechanism as specified in a
Clearing Notice to obtain CDS Clearing System reports;

(xx)

be party to any required documentation with DTCC allowing LCH.Clearnet SA as "Service
Provider" to :
(a)

arrange for the removal of Backloading Transactions or if applicable, Intraday
Transactions, from the TIW in accordance with ‎Section 3.1.10;

(b)

arrange for the registration of Cleared Transactions in the TIW in accordance with
‎Section 3.1.10; and

(c)

send to DTCC messages by which Cleared Transactions would be adhered to
Credit Events;

(xxi)

if it is incorporated or registered in the United States of America, be an eligible contract
participant, as defined in Section 1a(12) of the Commodity Exchange Act (other than
paragraph (C) thereof);

(xxii)

satisfy any additional membership requirements as set out in Section 1 of the Procedures,
including without limitation any caps on the aggregate amount of Initial Margin it may have
on deposit at any given time with LCH.Clearnet SA.;

(xxiii)

accept to comply with the performance of its obligations pursuant to the Pledge
Agreement;

(xxiv)

in respect of any Applicant that is an FCM, be registered with the CFTC as an FCM and a
member in good standing with NFA; and

(xxv)

in respect of any Applicant that is an FCM wishing to be admitted as a CCM, provide
LCH.Clearnet SA with an opinion of counsel letter confirming that its performance of the
obligations of a CCM would not be contrary to Applicable Law relating to such status, in
form and content acceptable to LCH.Clearnet SA.

Article 2.2.1.2
In addition each FCM Clearing Member must at all times be registered with the CFTC as an FCM
and a member in good standing with NFA.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

72

Published on 14 April 2016

Article 2.2.1.3
In the event a Clearing Member breaches any of the membership requirements set out in ‎Article
2.2.1.1, LCH.Clearnet SA shall consult with the French Competent Authorities to determine
whether such breach shall be publically disclosed in accordance with EMIR.

Section 2.2.2 Continuing obligations
Article 2.2.2.1
Each Clearing Member must at all times:
(i)

comply with the membership requirements set out in Section 2.2.1;

(ii)

be a party to the CDS Admission Agreement;

(iii)

comply with the CDS Clearing Documentation;

(iv)

have a CDS Client Clearing Agreement, meeting the requirements of Article 5.1.1.2 (i) (in
the case of a CCM) or Article 6.1.1.2 (in the case of an FCM Clearing Member), in place
with each of its Clients;

(v)

comply with all Applicable Law relating to its status as a Clearing Member and the
performance of its obligations pursuant to the CDS Clearing Documentation;

(vi)

comply with the performance of its obligations pursuant to the Pledge Agreement; and

(vii)

not be subject to Insolvency Proceedings.

Section 2.2.3 Capital requirements
Article 2.2.3.1
A Clearing Member must maintain a minimum net capital of at least EUR 37,000,000 in respect of
a Clearing Member which is a CCM (other than a CCM that is an FCM) or $50,000,000 (fifty million
US Dollars) in respect of a Clearing Member which is an FCM. Such net capital shall be calculated
as follows:
(i)

the net capital of an FCM means its adjusted net capital, as defined in CFTC Regulation
1.17; and

(ii)

the net capital of a CCM (other than a CCM that is an FCM) means its own original funds
as defined in the Capital Requirements Directive;

provided that LCH.Clearnet SA shall be permitted (in its sole and reasonable discretion), to scale
(A) a Clearing Member’s required level of net capital in accordance with the level of risk introduced
to LCH.Clearnet SA by such Clearing Member; and (B) a Clearing Member’s level of risk
introduced to LCH.Clearnet SA by such Clearing Member in accordance with its level of net capital
(and regardless of whether such Clearing Member has a minimum net capital exceeding
EUR 37,000,000 or $50,000,000, as applicable);
provided, further, that each Clearing Member or Clearing Member applicant must maintain
compliance with all regulatory financial requirements (whether relating to capital, equity, risk or
otherwise) applicable to it (including in the case of an FCM Clearing Member or CCM that is an
FCM, compliance with the applicable requirements of CFTC Regulation 1.17 and Part 23 of the
CFTC Regulations.
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

73

Published on 14 April 2016

Section 2.2.4 Internal credit scoring
Article 2.2.4.1
The Clearing Member must satisfy the credit risk assessment minimum requirements.
LCH.Clearnet SA assesses the credit risk of the Clearing Member in accordance with the internal
credit score based on a range of quantitative and qualitative data. These include financial analysis,
external market data as well as consideration of any implicit or explicit support available to the
Clearing Member. The analysis is performed on a predetermined methodology applicable to any
Clearing Member.

Section 2.2.5 Corporate organisation
Article 2.2.5.1
A Clearing Member may organise itself in such manner as it sees fit in relation to the performance
of its clearing and back office obligations pursuant to the CDS Clearing Documentation, provided
that it can satisfy LCH.Clearnet SA that it maintains sufficient oversight over the performance of
such function.
Article 2.2.5.2
Subject to Article 2.2.5.3, a Clearing Member may outsource the performance of all or part of its
clearing activities, subject that the Clearing Member shall remain responsible to LCH.Clearnet SA
for the performance of all such activities pursuant to the CDS Clearing Documentation. In respect
of any such outsourcing, the Clearing Member shall ensure that:
(i)

any entity to whom such activities are outsourced have the ability, capacity and
authorisation to carry out such functions;

(ii)

it supervises and monitors the performance of the outsourced activities; and

(iii)

it has effective access to data related to the outsourced activities and to the business
premises of the entity to whom the activities have been outsourced and is able to provide
such access to LCH.Clearnet SA as would apply to the Clearing Member under this CDS
Clearing Rule Book.

Article 2.2.5.3
A Clearing Member may only outsource a material part of its clearing activities with the prior
consent of LCH.Clearnet SA. In this context, an outsourcing will be "material" if a failure in the
performance of the outsourcee entity would be such as to materially impair the ability of the
Clearing Member to perform its obligations to LCH.Clearnet SA. LCH.Clearnet SA may decline to
approve such an outsourcing if a failure in such arrangement could be such as to materially impair
the ongoing financial soundness or the proper performance of the CDS Clearing Service.

Section 2.2.6 Membership of industry organisations or systems relating to
CDS contracts
Article 2.2.6.1
Clearing Members must be members of industry organisations or systems relating to CDS, as
designated by LCH.Clearnet SA from time to time as such in accordance with Section 5 of the

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

74

Published on 14 April 2016

Procedures. LCH.Clearnet SA may only make a designation where it is reasonable to do so or it is
otherwise necessary for a Clearing Member to utilise the CDS Clearing Service.

Section 2.2.7 Third party contractual obligations
Article 2.2.7.1
The payment of Physical Settlement Amounts shall not be subject to the provisions of this Section
2.2.7 save as set out in the CDS Clearing Supplement.
Relationship with Securities Settlement Agents and Payment Agents
Article 2.2.7.2
A Clearing Member that wishes to use a Securities Settlement Agent and/or a Payment Agent to:
(i)

deliver Eligible Collateral;

(ii)

provide Cash Collateral; or

(iii)

perform Cash Payment obligations

in accordance with the CDS Clearing Documentation, must enter into an agreement with a
Securities Settlement Agent and/or a Payment Agent, on such terms as allow the Clearing Member
to perform its obligations under the CDS Clearing Documentation as required by LCH.Clearnet SA.
Article 2.2.7.3
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 2.2.7.2 above, the use of a Securities Settlement Agent
and a Payment Agent shall not relieve the Clearing Member of its obligations under the CDS
Clearing Documentation.
Provisions related to Payment Agents
Article 2.2.7.4
Clearing Members must ensure that they are able to comply with their Cash Payment obligations
to LCH.Clearnet SA and their obligations to provide Cash Collateral, in respect of Euro, through
TARGET2 and, in respect of US Dollar, through their cash account(s) in US Dollar, in each case as
provided for in Section 3 of the Procedures.
Article 2.2.7.5
Each Clearing Member must provide LCH.Clearnet SA with a Power of Attorney enabling it to
directly debit or credit the Clearing Member’s TARGET2 Account(s) and/or cash account(s) in US
Dollar or the cash account(s) of any Payment Agent, being used to satisfy the Clearing Member’s
obligations under Article 2.2.7.2.
Provisions related to Securities Settlement Agents
Article 2.2.7.6
Each Clearing Member shall ensure that it has entered into arrangements with the relevant central
securities depository or securities settlement system enabling them to provide Eligible Collateral
through such central securities depository or securities settlement system if required.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

75

Published on 14 April 2016

Relationship with the Approved Trade Source System(s)
Article 2.2.7.7
Clearing Members and LCH.Clearnet SA use the services offered by Approved Trade Source
System(s) (which, for the avoidance of doubt, include DTCC) in accordance with their own
contractual arrangements.
LCH.Clearnet SA shall not be responsible for verifying the content of such contractual
arrangements between Clearing Members and the Approved Trade Source System(s).

Section 2.2.8 Test processing
Article 2.2.8.1
Each Clearing Member must participate in technical and operational tests, organised reasonably at
the discretion of LCH.Clearnet SA, in order, amongst other things, to ensure the continuity and
orderly functioning of the CDS Clearing Service.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

76

Published on 14 April 2016

CHAPTER 3 - INFORMATION OBLIGATIONS, MONITORING AND AUDIT

Section 2.3.1 Information and financial reporting
Article 2.3.1.1
Each Clearing Member shall notify LCH.Clearnet SA in writing without delay providing full
particulars known to it:
(i)

if there is a change in those direct or indirect shareholders having or controlling 10% or
more of its share capital or voting rights (such notification to be given as soon as it
becomes aware of that change and provided also that it is not prevented from disclosing
the change by Applicable Law);

(ii)

if it ceases to satisfy the Capital requirement in Section 2.2.3;

(iii)

if the amount of its Capital is reduced by more than 10% from that shown on the latest
financial statement filed with LCH.Clearnet SA;

(iv)

if it ceases to be subject to the supervision of a Competent Authority;

(v)

in the event that it fails to comply with any applicable financial requirements of any
Governmental Authority, Competent Authority, exchange, clearing organisation, or
settlement system;

(vi)

of Insolvency Proceedings affecting the Clearing Member or any Parent;

(vii)

an Event which could permit LCH.Clearnet SA to declare an Event of Default against that
Clearing Member;

(viii)

of a default of any of the Clearing Member's Clients pursuant to the CDS Client Clearing
Agreement;

(ix)

of any material breach of Applicable Law which relates to its status and performance as a
Clearing Member under the CDS Clearing Documentation;

(x)

of a Force Majeure Event or the cessation of a Force Majeure Event occurring in respect
of it to the extent required by Article 1.2.11.2;

(xi)

any change to its Systems and Operations that materially impacts its ability to comply with
its obligations under the CDS Clearing Documentation; and

(xii)

of anything relating to the Clearing Member of which LCH.Clearnet SA would reasonably
expect notice (including any matter, circumstance, change or occurrence which would
cause a statement previously furnished under this Article 2.3.1.1, any information supplied
in connection with its application for admission to membership of the CDS Clearing
Service, or otherwise to be inaccurate, incomplete or superseded).

Article 2.3.1.2
Each Clearing Member must file the following information with LCH.Clearnet SA:
(i)

audited financial statements and audited consolidated financial statements, including
balance sheet and profit and loss accounts, with the auditor’s report drawn up in
accordance with Applicable Law and accounting standards within 90 days of the end of the
Clearing Member’s fiscal year;

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

77

Published on 14 April 2016

(ii)

interim financial statements, including management profit and loss accounts and balance
sheet, drawn up in accordance with Applicable Law and accounting standards, within 60
days of the end of the relevant period; and

(iii)

such financial or other relevant information, in addition to what is explicitly required by this
Article 2.3.1.2, as may be requested by LCH.Clearnet SA at its reasonable discretion from
time to time.

Article 2.3.1.3
On request from LCH.Clearnet SA on an annual basis, a Clearing Member shall send to
LCH.Clearnet SA:
(i)

an updated group organisation chart and a list of each of its direct and indirect
shareholders holding more than a 10% interest in the share capital or voting rights of the
Clearing Member; and

(ii)

any change to the identity of those Persons notified to LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance
with Article 2.2.1.1 (xii).

This is without prejudice to LCH.Clearnet SA's right reasonably to request such information more
frequently if it wishes to do so.
Article 2.3.1.4
A Clearing Member shall answer any reasonable requests that LCH.Clearnet SA may deem
necessary for any matter arising out of or in connection with an Event and shall co-operate with
LCH.Clearnet SA in order to process the Event relating to it. For these purposes, it is irrelevant
whether the Event has been determined to be an Event of Default by LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to
Section 4.3.1.
Article 2.3.1.5
A Clearing Member will not breach any obligation to provide information to LCH.Clearnet SA if it is
prevented from providing such information:
(i)

by a mandatory provision of Applicable Law or pursuant to an order or direction from a
Regulatory Body or court with jurisdiction over the Clearing Member; or

(ii)

in case such Clearing Member does not have the required information and must obtain it
from a Client, due to the refusal of such Client to provide the required information(provided
the Clearing Member has undertaken reasonable due diligence and provides
LCH.Clearnet SA with documented proof of its inability to obtain relevant information from
the Client despite such due diligence).

Article 2.3.1.6
The Clearing Member shall respond to all reasonable requests for information from LCH.Clearnet
SA concerning its clearing activities and exposure to general and financial risks (Cleared
Transactions, Open Positions, defaults etc).
Article 2.3.1.7
Clearing Members shall send LCH.Clearnet SA a copy of all injunctions, formal administrative or
disciplinary notifications or sanctions imposed on them by any Regulatory Body regarding any
event which may significantly affect the ability of the Clearing Member to perform its obligations
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

78

Published on 14 April 2016

under the CDS Clearing Documentation, the exercise of its duties and/or the orderly conduct of its
activities as a Clearing Member.

Section 2.3.2 Monitoring
Article 2.3.2.1
LCH.Clearnet SA will monitor, on an ongoing basis, a number of forward-looking indicators,
including, but not limited to:
(i)

CDS spreads in respect of a Clearing Member, its Parent, or other members of its
Financial Group;

(ii)

the long-term credit rating(s) of a Clearing Member, its Parent or other member of its
Financial Group, as applicable; and

(iii)

equity returns for a Clearing Member, its Parent or other member of its Financial Group, as
applicable,

and where, as a result of this monitoring, LCH.Clearnet SA deems it necessary to contain its
exposure, it shall have discretion to suspend a Clearing Member as set out in Article 2.4.1.1 and/or
to require Credit Quality Margin to be paid in accordance with Article 4.2.1.2 and Section 4.2.4.

Section 2.3.3 Audit and inspection
Article 2.3.3.1
Each Clearing Member agrees to submit its clearing activity carried out under the CDS Clearing
Documentation to inspections reasonably requested by LCH.Clearnet SA.
Article 2.3.3.2
LCH.Clearnet SA may require an audit of a Clearing Member’s Systems and Operations on
reasonable notice and no more than twice annually.
Article 2.3.3.3
In establishing its internal arrangements, the Clearing Member shall ensure that LCH.Clearnet SA
shall be permitted access pursuant to Applicable Law in any jurisdiction in which the Clearing
Member performs its clearing activities, whether by the Clearing Member itself, a Person in the
same Financial Group or a third party outsourcee pursuant to Article 2.2.5.2.
Article 2.3.3.4
Each Clearing Member shall be entitled to deny the attendance of LCH.Clearnet SA
representatives at an inspection or audit if they are affected by conflicts of interest and in such
event shall provide appropriate reasons for such denial.
Article 2.3.3.5
Each Clearing Member shall ensure that appropriate personnel are available for communications
with LCH.Clearnet SA during Opening Hours on each Business Day.
Article 2.3.3.6
If, upon the completion of an audit under this Section 2.3.3, LCH.Clearnet SA believes that any
modifications are necessary to the Clearing Member's Systems and Operations or to any other
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

79

Published on 14 April 2016

part of the Clearing Member's business activities, the Clearing Member will enter into good faith
discussions with LCH.Clearnet SA as to the necessary extent of any modifications and the
timescale within which the Clearing Member will make such modifications.

Section 2.3.4 Record keeping
Article 2.3.4.1
Each Clearing Member is required to keep all data relating to each Cleared Transaction for at least
six years following the termination of each such Cleared Transaction and must make the data
available to LCH.Clearnet SA upon demand, subject to any mandatory provisions of Applicable
Law to which a Clearing Member is subject, throughout that period.
Article 2.3.4.2
Both LCH.Clearnet SA and each FCM Clearing Member will maintain books and records which
comply with Regulation 6(i) of the FCM CDS Clearing Regulations and otherwise as required by
Applicable Law.

Section 2.3.5 Clearing Member risk management
Article 2.3.5.1
Each Clearing Member shall maintain current written risk management policies and procedures
that address the risks that it may pose to the CDS Clearing Service provided by LCH.Clearnet SA,
including any policies and procedures that LCH.Clearnet SA may reasonably request be
incorporated therein. Upon the request of LCH.Clearnet SA (or the CFTC, the AMF or the Autorité
de Contrôle Prudentiel et de Résolution, as applicable), a Clearing Member shall promptly provide
LCH.Clearnet SA (or the CFTC, the AMF or the Autorité de Contrôle Prudentiel et de Résolution,
as applicable) with a copy of its current policies and procedures, along with relating information
and documents including, without limitation, information and documents relating to the liquidity of
the Clearing Member’s financial resources and its settlement procedures.
LCH.Clearnet SA shall periodically review the risk management policies, procedures, and
practices of each Clearing Member, which address the risks that such Clearing Member may pose
to LCH.Clearnet SA. All such reviews shall be documented and maintained in accordance with
LCH.Clearnet SA’s recordkeeping policy.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

80

Published on 14 April 2016

CHAPTER 4 - SUSPENSION AND TERMINATION OF MEMBERSHIP

Section 2.4.1 Suspension
Article 2.4.1.1
LCH.Clearnet SA shall be entitled, subject to Article 2.4.1.3, to suspend a Clearing Member’s
ability to submit all new Original Transactions, or, alternatively, those Original Transactions which
LCH.Clearnet SA does not consider as contributing to reducing the risks of the Clearing Member,
for clearing by LCH.Clearnet SA:
(i)

upon any unremedied breach by the Clearing Member of the CDS Clearing
Documentation, except where such breach is minor, technical or administrative in nature in
the reasonable opinion of LCH.Clearnet SA;

(ii)

when LCH.Clearnet SA determines that it is necessary for it to contain its exposure to the
Clearing Member following its monitoring pursuant to Article 2.3.2.1;

(iii)

upon suspension or termination (other than a voluntary termination) of the Clearing
Member's membership of another clearing house provided that the circumstances relating
to that suspension or termination are, in LCH.Clearnet SA's reasonable opinion, material
to the management of its risk by LCH.Clearnet SA, and that LCH.Clearnet SA first consults
or attempts to consult with the Clearing Member and LCH.Clearnet SA's Competent
Authority;

(iv)

as a result of Disciplinary Proceedings brought against a Clearing Member; or

(v)

upon the occurrence of an Event in respect of the Clearing Member that could materially
impact the ability of that Clearing Member to perform its obligations under the CDS
Clearing Documentation.

Article 2.4.1.2
A suspended Clearing Member shall remain and continue to be bound by all of its obligations
under the CDS Clearing Documentation.
Article 2.4.1.3
Before suspending a Clearing Member under Article 2.4.1.1, and without limiting its rights under
Section 4.3.1, LCH.Clearnet SA must consult with the relevant Clearing Member, where to do so
would be reasonable in the circumstances, further to which LCH.Clearnet SA may either agree a
grace period within which the Clearing Member may remedy the event in question or institute
Disciplinary Proceedings in respect of the Clearing Member without limitation to any right to
declare an Event of Default.
Article 2.4.1.4
LCH.Clearnet SA shall be entitled, at any time and at its discretion, to revoke the suspension
imposed on a Clearing Member under Article 2.4.1.1 above.
Article 2.4.1.5
Suspension of membership shall be promptly notified to the Competent Authorities.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

81

Published on 14 April 2016

Section 2.4.2 Membership Termination
Article 2.4.2.1
Membership Termination shall become effective, in the case of a Clearing Member in respect of
which a Default Notice has been served by LCH.Clearnet SA, on the Defaulting Clearing Member
Termination Date, and in the case of an LCH Default, on the Termination Date.
Article 2.4.2.2
Subject to Article 2.4.2.1, the membership of a Clearing Member may be terminated:
(i)

by LCH.Clearnet SA serving a Membership Termination Notice to the relevant Clearing
Member, specifying a date in respect of which Membership Termination shall be effective,
which may be no earlier than the date six months after service of the Membership
Termination Notice save in the case of a Defaulting Clearing Member in which case the
termination date may be any date stated by LCH.Clearnet SA; or

(ii)

by a Clearing Member serving a Membership Termination Notice to LCH.Clearnet SA,
specifying a date in respect of which Membership Termination shall be effective, which
may be no earlier than the date 25 Business Days after service of the Membership
Termination Notice, provided that no such termination shall be effective where it relates to
a Defaulting Clearing Member.

In each case, the Clearing Member shall be required to effect a Non-Default Unwind of all of its
Cleared Transactions prior to the Scheduled Membership Termination Date.
Article 2.4.2.3
For the purposes of Article 4.3.1.1, a failure by a Clearing Member to effect a Non-Default Unwind
of all of its Cleared Transactions prior to the Scheduled Membership Termination Date shall
constitute a breach of the CDS Clearing Documentation but not an Event for the purposes of
Article 4.3.1.1.
However, if a Clearing Member fails to effect a Non-Default Unwind of all of its Cleared
Transactions prior to the Scheduled Membership Termination Date, LCH.Clearnet SA shall consult
with the relevant Clearing Member to agree a grace period (to be no longer than 10 Clearing Days)
for the Clearing Member to effect the Non-Default Unwind of all of its Cleared Transactions. If, at
the end of such grace period (or, in the absence of any agreement on such grace period, on the
th
10 Clearing Day following the Scheduled Membership Termination Date), the relevant Clearing
Member has not effected a Non-Default Unwind of all of its Cleared Transactions,
LCH.Clearnet SA shall be entitled to take any of the actions set out in Article 4.3.2.3 as if an Event
of Default had been declared with respect to such Clearing Member and such Clearing Member
was a Defaulting Clearing Member.
Article 2.4.2.4
In the event of any Non-Default Termination, Membership Termination shall be effective (unless
the relevant Membership Termination Notice is withdrawn in accordance with Article 2.4.2.5):
(i)

if the Membership Termination Notice is delivered during a CDS Post-Default Period:
(a)

if such Clearing Member has concluded a Non-Default Unwind of all of its Cleared
Transactions on or prior to the final calendar day of such CDS Post-Default Period,
on the final calendar day of such CDS Post-Default Period; and

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

82

Published on 14 April 2016

(b)

(ii)

if such Clearing Member has not concluded a Non-Default Unwind of all of its
Cleared Transactions on or prior to the final calendar day of such CDS PostDefault Period, on the 10th calendar day following the first date as of which such
Clearing Member has concluded its Non-Default Unwind of all of its Cleared
Transactions, provided that if an Event of Default in relation to another Clearing
Member occurs prior to such date of effective withdrawal, the Clearing Member's
Membership Termination Notice shall be deemed to have been given during the
resulting CDS Post-Default Period and the provisions of this sub-paragraph (i)
shall apply again in relation to that Clearing Member's Membership Termination
Notice;

if the Membership Termination Notice is delivered other than during a CDS Post-Default
Period:
(a)

if such Clearing Member has concluded a Non-Default Unwind of all of its Cleared
Transactions on or prior to the Scheduled Membership Termination Date, on such
Scheduled Membership Termination Date; or

(b)

if such Clearing Member has not concluded a Non-Default Unwind of all of its
Cleared Transactions on or prior to the Scheduled Membership Termination Date,
on the 10th calendar day following the first date as of which such Clearing
Member has concluded a Non-Default Unwind of all of its Cleared Transactions,

provided that, in each case, if a Default Notice is issued in relation to another Clearing Member
prior to such date, such Membership Termination Notice shall be deemed to have been given
during the resulting CDS Post-Default Period and the provisions of sub-paragraph (i) shall apply.
Article 2.4.2.5
A Clearing Member or LCH.Clearnet SA, as the case may be, shall be entitled to withdraw its
Membership Termination Notice served pursuant to Article 2.4.2.2 at any time prior to Membership
Termination.
Article 2.4.2.6
In the event that, during a Membership Termination Notice Period for a Clearing Member, an LCH
Default occurs or a Default Notice is served in respect of that Clearing Member, the procedures
being undertaken in relation to the Non-Default Termination shall end and the rights of
LCH.Clearnet SA, in relation to an Event of Default, and the rights of a Clearing Member, in
relation to an LCH Default, shall prevail.
Article 2.4.2.7
Where LCH.Clearnet SA issues a Default Notice prior to Membership Termination, the Collateral
transferred to LCH.Clearnet SA as a Contribution or Additional Contribution Amount by a Clearing
Member may be applied in accordance with Article 4.3.3.1.
Article 2.4.2.8
Subject to the application of TITLE I, Chapter 3 during any Membership Termination Notice Period,
the relevant Clearing Member shall remain liable to:
(i)

provide Collateral to satisfy its Margin Requirements;

(ii)

satisfy its Variation Margin Requirement when due to LCH.Clearnet SA;

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

83

Published on 14 April 2016

(iii)

provide Collateral to satisfy its Contribution Requirement, including any increase to the
level of its Contribution in the event that LCH.Clearnet SA recalculates the required CDS
Default Fund in accordance with Article 4.4.1.5 during the Membership Termination Notice
Period;

(iv)

make all other required Cash Payments;

(v)

transfer, liquidate and make settlement/delivery (as applicable) in respect of all Cleared
Transactions to which it is party in accordance with this CDS Clearing Rule Book, the CDS
Clearing Supplement and the terms of the relevant Cleared Transactions;

(vi)

participate in the CDS Default Management Process;

(vii)

co-operate fully with LCH.Clearnet SA and to deal with any requests from it in a prompt
and orderly fashion; and

(viii)

continue to satisfy conditions to its membership as set out in TITLE II and the CDS
Admission Agreement.

For the avoidance of doubt, if an LCH Default occurs during the Membership Termination Notice
Period other than where the Clearing Member is itself subject to an Event of Default, the
provisions of TITLE I, Chapter 3 shall take precedence with respect to the Cleared Transactions
registered in the Account Structure of the relevant Clearing Member and for which the relevant
Clearing Member has not concluded a Non-Default Unwind on or prior to the LCH Default Time.
Article 2.4.2.9
Following Membership Termination, LCH.Clearnet SA and any Former Clearing Member shall
remain:
(i)

subject to Article 1.2.14.1, Section 1.2.15 and any proceedings under the CDS Dispute
Resolution Protocol and any provisions of the CDS Clearing Documentation which relate
in whole or in part to any acts or omissions of LCH.Clearnet SA or the Former Clearing
Member while it was a Clearing Member;

(ii)

in the event of an LCH Default, subject to the rights and obligations set out in TITLE I,
Chapter 3; and

(iii)

liable in respect of all fees, fines, charges and payments under Cleared Transactions,
amounts due to LCH.Clearnet SA or the Former Clearing Member as a result of its
Cleared Transactions and any other liabilities accrued prior to Membership Termination,
including in particular, the payment of any Termination Amount(s) pursuant to Article
1.3.1.10, any amounts due pursuant to Article 4.3.3.4 or the payment of the LCH
Repayment Amount pursuant to Clause 8.7 of the CDS Default Management Process.

Article 2.4.2.10
Promptly following Membership Termination, pursuant to Non-Default Termination, LCH.Clearnet
SA shall issue a Clearing Notice specifying the name of the Former Clearing Member and, where
appropriate, that they have opted to voluntarily terminate their membership pursuant to Article
2.4.2.2(ii).

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

84

Published on 14 April 2016

Article 2.4.2.11
In relation to a Former Clearing Member’s House Account Structure, following Membership
Termination, LCH.Clearnet SA shall, if not already repaid, redelivered or accounted for pursuant to
the CDS Clearing Rules, repay to a Former Clearing Member an amount equal to the sum of:
(i)

the Margin Balance for its House Margin Account; plus

(ii)

in the case of a CCM, any CCM Client Collateral Buffer; plus

(iii)

in the case of a CCM, any CCM Unallocated Client Collateral (to be held on account for its
CCM Clients); plus

(iv)

any Collateral that has been transferred to LCH.Clearnet SA to satisfy its Contribution
Requirement to the extent it has not been used by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with, or
as permitted by, the CDS Clearing Rules; less

(v)

any amounts owing by the Former Clearing Member to LCH.Clearnet SA in respect of
House Cleared Transactions recorded in its House Trade Account;

and redeliver to the Former Clearing Member any Pledged Eligible Collateral (other than Pledged
Eligible Collateral which LCH.Clearnet SA has applied in order to reduce its loss in accordance
with Article 4.3.3.1 or the CDS Default Management Process) which the Former Clearing Member
has transferred to LCH.Clearnet SA to be recorded in its House Collateral Account.
In relation to each Client Account Structure of a Former Clearing Member, following Membership
Termination, LCH.Clearnet SA shall, if not already repaid, redelivered or accounted for pursuant to
the CDS Clearing Rules, repay to a Former Clearing Member an amount equal to the sum of:
(i)

the Margin Balance (if any) for each CCM Client Account Structure in the case of a CCM
or as the case may be, for each FCM Client Margin Account in the case of an FCM
Clearing Member; plus

(ii)

in the case of an FCM Clearing Member, any FCM Client Collateral Buffer and FCM
Unallocated Client Collateral (save that LCH.Clearnet SA shall be entitled to retain any
FCM Client Collateral Buffer in accordance with the FCM CDS Clearing Regulations to the
extent a default has occurred in respect of an FCM Client);

and, in the case of a CCM, redeliver to the Former Clearing Member any Client Pledged Eligible
Collateral (other than Client Pledged Eligible Collateral which LCH.Clearnet SA has applied in
order to reduce its loss in accordance with Article 4.3.3.1 or the CDS Default Management
Process) which the Former Clearing Member has transferred to LCH.Clearnet SA to be recorded
in the relevant Client Collateral Account.
Repayment shall be made as soon as reasonably possible after LCH.Clearnet SA has determined
that the Former Clearing Member has no outstanding sums owing to LCH.Clearnet SA.
Article 2.4.2.12
Termination of membership shall be promptly notified to the Competent Authorities.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

85

Published on 14 April 2016

Section 2.4.3 Winding Down Event
Article 2.4.3.1
Upon the date which it specifies in a Clearing Notice, and following the occurrence of a Winding
Down Event, LCH.Clearnet SA shall be entitled to cease the CDS Clearing Service provided that it
publishes a Clearing Notice notifying all Clearing Members that a Winding Down Event has
occurred, and to the extent possible, of the Early Termination Trigger Date with respect to the
cessation. LCH Clearnet SA shall publish the Clearing Notice as far in advance of the Early
Termination Trigger Date as is reasonably possible.
Article 2.4.3.2
Clearing Members shall use all reasonable efforts to effect a Non-Default Unwind of their positions
prior to the Early Termination Trigger Date notified in accordance with Article 2.4.3.1, however
failure to do so will not constitute an Event of Default.
Article 2.4.3.3
As soon after the Early Termination Trigger Date notified in accordance with Article 2.4.3.1 as is
possible, and in any case, no longer than three Business Days after the Early Termination Trigger
Date, or any other date required by the Autorité de Contrôle Prudentiel et de Résolution,
LCH.Clearnet SA shall apply the process set out in Clauses 8.1.4 to Clause 8.12 of the CDS
Default Management Process to determine the final payments to be made to each Clearing
Member. For this purpose, the term:
(i)

"Non Defaulting Clearing Member" shall read "Clearing Member"; and

(ii)

"Early Termination Trigger Date" shall read as the date which is specified in the Clearing
Notice as the date on which Original Transactions shall cease to be accepted for clearing
on the CDS Clearing Service.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

86

Published on 14 April 2016

TITLE III
CLEARING OPERATIONS

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

87

Published on 14 April 2016

CHAPTER 1 - NOVATION AND REGISTRATION

Section 3.1.1 Weekly Backloading Cycle
Article 3.1.1.1
LCH Clearnet SA performs a Weekly Backloading Cycle in accordance with Section 3.1.1 and
Section 5 of the Procedures.
On each Weekly Backloading Start Day on which LCH.Clearnet SA receives the Gold Records File
from DTCC in relation to one or more Weekly Backloading Transactions, LCH.Clearnet SA will
start performing the Weekly Backloading Cycle set out in this Section 3 in relation to such Weekly
Backloading Transactions.
Article 3.1.1.2
On each relevant Weekly Backloading Start Day, upon receipt by LCH.Clearnet SA of the Gold
Records File, LCH.Clearnet SA will extract the Transaction Data of each Weekly Backloading
Transaction.
Article 3.1.1.3
Following the extraction of Transaction Data in relation to each Weekly Backloading Transaction
pursuant to Article 3.1.1.2, LCH.Clearnet SA will, on such day at such times and in such form as
prescribed in Section 5 of the Procedures:
(i)

perform the Eligibility Controls;

(ii)

issue the Clearing Eligibility Report;

(iii)

request each Clearing Member to identify the Weekly Backloading Transactions which it
wants to include in the Weekly Backloading Cycle;

(iv)

identify the Eligible Weekly Backloading Transactions;

(v)

notify each Clearing Member of the estimated Margin Requirements which would be
required from the relevant Clearing Member if each relevant trade leg of its Eligible Weekly
Backloading Transactions were included as Cleared Transactions registered in its Trade
Accounts at the time the estimation is performed; and

(vi)

issue the DTCC Matching and Eligibility Report.

Article 3.1.1.4
Each Clearing Member agrees, by submitting its Weekly Backloading Transactions to
LCH.Clearnet SA in its Clearing Eligibility Report, to be bound by the registration of such Weekly
Backloading Transactions in accordance with this S
‎ ection 3.1.1.
Article 3.1.1.5
An Eligible Weekly Backloading Transaction can be removed from the Weekly Backloading Cycle
provided that such removal is requested in the manner set out in Section 5 of the Procedures:
(i)

prior to becoming an Irrevocable Weekly Backloading Transaction, and

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

88

Published on 14 April 2016

(ii)

by both the Clearing Member acting as protection buyer and the Clearing Member acting
as protection seller in respect of such Eligible Weekly Backloading Transaction. Any
Eligible Weekly Backloading Transaction so removed will become a Rejected Transaction.

Where not so removed, each Eligible Weekly Backloading Transaction shall become an
Irrevocable Weekly Backloading Transaction at the time specified in Section 5 of the Procedures.
Article 3.1.1.6
A Weekly Backloading Cycle may be cancelled by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Section 5
of the Procedures if a Clearing Member has duly notified LCH.Clearnet SA that there is an error in
the DTCC Matching and Eligibility Report issued to such Clearing Member.
Article 3.1.1.7
Unless the Weekly Backloading Cycle is cancelled pursuant to Article 3.1.1.6‎, LCH.Clearnet SA
will, in accordance with ‎Section 3.1.7, pre-register the positions corresponding to each Irrevocable
Weekly Backloading Transaction in the relevant Clearing Member's House Account Structure at
the times set out in Section 5 of the Procedures on the relevant Weekly Backloading Novation Day
provided that:
(i)

all Eligibility Requirements of such Irrevocable Weekly Backloading Transaction are still
met, and

(ii)

the Weekly Backloading Transactions have not been removed from the TIW.

If, at this time, either of the conditions set out in Article 3.1.1.7 (i) or (ii) are no longer met in
respect of any Irrevocable Weekly Backloading Transaction, such Irrevocable Weekly Backloading
Transaction shall become a Rejected Transaction. For the avoidance of doubt, the characterisation
of one or more Irrevocable Weekly Backloading Transactions as Rejected Transactions in
accordance with this Article 3.1.1.7 shall not impact the pre-registration of the remaining
Irrevocable Weekly Backloading Transactions in the House Account Structures of the relevant
Clearing Members.
Article 3.1.1.8
Any Weekly Backloading Transaction which:
(i)

has not been successfully reconciled pursuant to Article 3.1.1.2;

(ii)

fails the Eligibility Controls on the Weekly Backloading Start Day;

(iii)

no longer meets any of the Eligibility Requirements at any time on or prior to the Weekly
Backloading Novation Day;

(iv)

does not become an Eligible Weekly Backloading Transaction or an Irrevocable Weekly
Backloading Transaction;

(v)

is affected by a Backloading Failure in accordance with Article 3.1.3.1 and Section 5 of the
Procedures; or

(vi)

is part of a Weekly Backloading Cycle cancelled pursuant to Article 3.1.4.6;

will become a Rejected Transaction.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

89

Published on 14 April 2016

Article 3.1.1.9
Following the Morning Call on the relevant Weekly Backloading Novation Day, LCH.Clearnet SA
shall:
(i)

novate in accordance with Article 3.1.6.1 each Irrevocable Weekly Backloading
Transaction that is not a Rejected Transaction at the Novation Time;

(ii)

if applicable, perform the compression of Cleared Transactions in accordance with TITLE
III, Chapter 3 and Section 5 of the Procedures;

(iii)

register in the TIW, in accordance with ‎Section 3.1.10, the Cleared Transactions arising
out of the novation and, if applicable, compression process; and

(iv)

if applicable, remove from the TIW, in accordance with ‎Section 3.1.10, the relevant
Backloading Transactions and Cleared Transactions which are terminated as a result of
the compression process.

Article 3.1.1.10
In December of each year, LCH.Clearnet SA shall issue a Clearing Notice containing a provisional
calendar which specifies the Weekly Backloading Cycle of the following year. LCH.Clearnet SA
may as required, amend such provisional calendar by issuing a Clearing Notice.

Section 3.1.2 Daily Backloading Cycle
Article 3.1.2.1
LCH.Clearnet SA operates a Daily Backloading Cycle in accordance with this Section 3.1.2 and
Section 5 of the Procedures.
Article 3.1.2.2
On any Business Day, a Daily Backloading Transaction may be submitted to LCH.Clearnet SA
through an Approved Trade Source System during the Real Time Session.
Upon receipt of Original Transaction Data relating to a Daily Backloading Transaction from an
Approved Trade Source System, LCH.Clearnet SA will perform in the following order:
(i)

the Eligibility Controls; and

(ii)

the Client Transaction Checks (if applicable).

Article 3.1.2.3
A CM Backloading Transaction will become an Irrevocable Daily Backloading Transaction once it
has passed the Eligibility Controls and a Client Backloading Transaction will become an
Irrevocable Daily Backloading Transaction once it has passed the Eligibility Controls and the Client
Transaction Checks. If any of the Eligibility Controls or the Client Transaction Checks is not
successfully completed, the relevant Daily Backloading Transaction will become a Rejected
Transaction.
LCH.Clearnet SA will, in accordance with ‎Section 3.1.7, pre-register the positions corresponding to
each Irrevocable Daily Backloading Transaction in the relevant Clearing Member's Account
Structure at the times set out in Section 5 of the Procedures on the relevant Daily Backloading
Novation Day provided that all Eligibility Requirements of such Irrevocable Daily Backloading
Transaction are still met.
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

90

Published on 14 April 2016

Any Daily Backloading Transaction affected by a Backloading Failure in accordance with Article
3.1.3.1 and Section 5 of the Procedures shall become a Rejected Transaction.
Article 3.1.2.4
Following the Morning Call on the relevant Daily Backloading Novation Day, LCH.Clearnet SA
shall:
(i)

novate in accordance with Article 3.1.6.1 each Irrevocable Daily Backloading Transaction
that is not a Rejected Transaction at the Novation Time;

(ii)

if applicable, perform the compression of Cleared Transactions in accordance with TITLE
III, Chapter 3 and Section 5 of the Procedures;

(iii)

register in the TIW, in accordance with ‎ Section 3.1.10, the Cleared Transactions arising
out of the novation and, if applicable, compression process; and

(iv)

if applicable, remove from the TIW, in accordance with ‎ Section 3.1.10, the relevant Daily
Backloading Transactions and Cleared Transactions which are terminated as a result of
the compression process.

Section 3.1.3 Backloading Failure
Article 3.1.3.1
If, on a Clearing Day, a Backloading Failure occurs in respect of one or more Clearing Member(s),
the following Backloading Transactions will be removed from the relevant Weekly Backloading
Cycle and/or Daily Backloading Cycle:
(i)

all the Backloading Transactions which were due to give rise to the registration of Cleared
Transactions in the Trade Account(s) of the Failed Backloading Clearing Member(s); and

(ii)

any Backloading Transactions which are linked to the Backloading Transactions
referenced in Article 3.1.3.1(i) above, pursuant to and in accordance with Section 5 of the
Procedures;

The Backloading Transactions removed from the relevant Weekly Backloading Cycle and/or Daily
Backloading Cycle pursuant to this Article 3.1.3.1 shall become Rejected Transactions.
Article 3.1.3.2
Following the occurrence of a Backloading Failure, LCH.Clearnet SA will promptly deliver a
Backloading Failure Notice to all Clearing Members.
Article 3.1.3.3
Each Failed Backloading Clearing Member will be liable for costs incurred by LCH.Clearnet SA in
connection with the process described in Article 3.1.3.1 as specified in a fee grid published from
time to time by LCH.Clearnet SA on the Website.

Section 3.1.4 Intraday Process
Article 3.1.4.1
An Intraday Transaction may be submitted to LCH.Clearnet SA for clearing through an Approved
Trade Source System during the Real Time Session on any Clearing Day.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

91

Published on 14 April 2016

Article 3.1.4.2
Submission by an ATSS Participant to an Approved Trade Source System of an Intraday
Transaction with a designation for clearing by LCH.Clearnet SA shall be deemed to be an
irrevocable agreement by such ATSS Participant that:
(i)

the relevant Original Transaction Data may be sent by such Approved Trade Source
System, pursuant to the Approved Trade Source System’s terms and conditions, to
LCH.Clearnet SA;

(ii)

such Intraday Transaction is intended to be novated to LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to and
in accordance with the terms of the CDS Clearing Rules and the CDS Clearing
Supplement; and

(iii)

the terms of such Intraday Transaction will not be amended prior to novation (unless such
Intraday Transaction becomes a Rejected Transaction).

Article 3.1.4.3
On each Clearing Day, the Real Time Session will begin at the Start of Real Time. Upon receipt of
Original Transaction Data relating to an Intraday Transaction from an Approved Trade Source
System, during the Real Time Session, LCH.Clearnet SA will perform in the following order:
(i)

the Eligibility Controls; and

(ii)

the Client Transaction Checks (if applicable).

If an Intraday Transaction is received for clearing by LCH.Clearnet SA outside of the Real Time
Session or if any of the Eligibility Controls, the Client Transaction Checks (if applicable) or the
Notional and Collateral Checks are not successfully completed, such Intraday Transaction will
automatically become a Rejected Transaction.
Article 3.1.4.4
An Intraday Transaction will become an Eligible Intraday Transaction only once the Eligibility
Controls and the Client Transaction Checks (if applicable) have been successfully completed.
LCH.Clearnet SA will then pre-register the positions corresponding to any Eligible Intraday
Transaction in the Account Structure of the relevant Clearing Member in accordance with Section
3.1.7, and such Eligible Intraday Transaction will then be subject to the Notional and Collateral
Check with respect to the relevant Clearing Member. If an Eligible Intraday Transaction passes the
Notional and Collateral Check with respect to each of the Clearing Members in respect of whom a
Cleared Transaction would be registered, LCH.Clearnet SA will novate such Eligible Intraday
Transaction pursuant to Article 3.1.6.1.
Article 3.1.4.5
Unless otherwise stated in this Section 3.1.4, each stage of the intraday process as set out in this
Section 3.1.4 will be conducted by LCH.Clearnet SA as quickly as technologically practicable and,
where applicable, will begin as quickly as technologically practicable after the previous stage.
Article 3.1.4.6
LCH.Clearnet SA will inform all relevant Clearing Members of the results of the application of the
Eligibility Controls, the Client Transaction Checks (if applicable) and the Notional and Collateral

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

92

Published on 14 April 2016

Check on each relevant Intraday Transaction in the relevant Intraday Call Reports, made available
to Clearing Members in accordance with Section 5 of the Procedures.

Section 3.1.5 Rejected Transactions
Article 3.1.5.1
A Rejected Transaction will immediately be withdrawn from the registration process by
LCH.Clearnet SA and will not be capable of being novated pursuant to this CDS Clearing Rule
Book but may be re-submitted for clearing in accordance with the CDS Clearing Rules and the
CDS Clearing Supplement. LCH.Clearnet SA will notify the relevant Clearing Member of any
Rejected Transaction in accordance with and subject to Section 5 of the Procedures. Rejected
Transactions that have been pre-registered in accordance with Article 3.1.7.1 will be un-registered
from that Clearing Member's Account Structure.
Article 3.1.5.2
Notwithstanding any other provision of this CDS Clearing Rule Book, LCH.Clearnet SA may reject
any Original Transaction which does not comply with this CDS Clearing Rule Book, the
Procedures or the Eligibility Requirements or where an Event has occurred or, in LCH.Clearnet
SA's reasonable opinion, is likely to occur, in relation to the relevant Clearing Member.

Section 3.1.6 Novation Process
Article 3.1.6.1
In respect of each Original Transaction novated by LCH.Clearnet SA, with effect from the Novation
Time of such Original Transaction:
(i)

(ii)

if such Original Transaction comprises two House Trade Legs, the parties to such Original
Transaction shall be automatically and immediately released and discharged from all their
obligations to each other under such Original Transaction (and the books and records of
such parties shall be updated to reflect such novation) other than in respect of:
(a)

any amounts which are due and payable (or deliverable) by one party to the other
pursuant to the terms of such Original Transaction but have not yet been paid (or
delivered), on or prior to the Novation Time; and

(b)

any Initial Payment Amounts or any Fixed Amounts, when such amounts remain
payable between the parties to such Original Transaction and in accordance with
the terms of such Original Transaction pursuant to the CDS Clearing Supplement;

if such Original Transaction comprises at least one Client Trade Leg, the parties to such
Original Transaction shall be released and discharged from all their obligations to each
other in accordance with the relevant agreement they have entered into other than in
respect of:
(a)

any amounts which are due and payable (or deliverable) by one party to the other
pursuant to the terms of such Original Transaction but have not yet been paid (or
delivered), on or prior to the Novation Time; and

(b)

any Initial Payment Amounts or any Fixed Amounts, when such amounts remain
payable between the parties to such Original Transaction and in accordance with
the terms of such Original Transaction pursuant to the CDS Clearing Supplement;

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

93

Published on 14 April 2016

(iii)

(iv)

each such Original Transaction will be replaced by two Cleared Transactions as follows:
(a)

a Cleared Transaction entered into between LCH.Clearnet SA (acting as the
protection seller in respect of such Cleared Transaction) and either: (x) in the
event the Fixed Rate Payer of the Original Transaction is a Clearing Member, the
Fixed Rate Payer (acting as CDS Buyer in respect of such Cleared Transaction);
or (y) in the event the Fixed Rate Payer of the Original Transaction is a Client, the
relevant Nominated Clearing Member (acting as CDS Buyer in respect of such
Cleared Transaction), as applicable; and

(b)

a Cleared Transaction entered into between LCH.Clearnet SA (acting as the
protection buyer in respect of such Cleared Transaction) and either: (x) in the
event the Floating Rate Payer of the Original Transaction is a Clearing Member,
the Floating Rate Payer (acting as CDS Seller in respect of such Cleared
Transaction); or (y) in the event the Floating Rate Payer of the Original
Transaction is a Client, the relevant Nominated Clearing Member (acting as CDS
Seller in respect of such Cleared Transaction), as applicable; and

each such Cleared Transaction is deemed entered into by LCH.Clearnet SA as a system
and is irrevocable in accordance with Article L. 330-1 III and IV of the French Monetary
and Financial Code.

Any failure by a party to perform its obligations under such Original Transaction shall not affect the
liability of any such party to LCH.Clearnet SA following the novation of such Original Transaction.
Article 3.1.6.2
LCH.Clearnet SA will inform the relevant Clearing Members of the novation of an Original
Transaction, novated pursuant to Article 3.1.6.1, in the relevant Cleared Trades Report and
Bilateral Trades Report, in accordance with Section 5 of the Procedures.
Article 3.1.6.3
The CDS Clearing System used for the purposes of the novation of Backloading Transactions is
not a real-time monitoring of transactions process.
Registration of Cleared Transactions in the Account Structure of the relevant Clearing Members
will depend upon the effective receipt by LCH.Clearnet SA of appropriate information from the
Approved Trade Source System, and will be processed during Clearing Days as set out in Section
5 of the Procedures.
LCH.Clearnet SA shall not be in breach of the CDS Clearing Documentation by reason of late
provision of any report or information by the Approved Trade Source System.
Article 3.1.6.4
LCH.Clearnet SA will be entitled to assume and will assume that no Credit Event Notice or Notice
of Physical Settlement under an Original Transaction submitted for clearing by LCH.Clearnet SA in
accordance with this TITLE III, Chapter 1 has been delivered by either party to the other prior to
the Novation Time for that Original Transaction (other than any deemed delivery of a Credit Event
Notice pursuant to a DC Credit Event Announcement). Each Clearing Member upon submitting an
Original Transaction for clearing by LCH.Clearnet SA acknowledges and agrees that any Credit
Event Notice (other than any deemed delivery of a Credit Event Notice pursuant to a DC Credit
Event Announcement) or Notice of Physical Settlement (or NOPS Amendment Notice) delivered in
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

94

Published on 14 April 2016

relation to an Original Transaction which is accepted for clearing by LCH.Clearnet SA in
accordance with Section 3.1.1, Section 3.1.2 or Section 3.1.4 shall be deemed, at the Novation
Time, never to have been delivered.
Article 3.1.6.5
Subject to Article 3.1.6.1 above, each Cleared Transaction shall be on identical terms as those set
out in the Transaction Data of the Original Transaction replaced by such Cleared Transaction, and
otherwise subject to the provisions of the CDS Clearing Documentation. With effect from the
Novation Time, the terms of the Cleared Transaction shall be definitive, regardless of whether any
Cleared Transaction is based on any Original Transaction and regardless of any error or the
validity of any Original Transactions.
Article 3.1.6.6
Notwithstanding the designation by LCH.Clearnet SA of any system as an Approved Trade Source
System, LCH.Clearnet SA makes no warranty as to the effectiveness, efficiency, performance or
any other aspect of the services provided by any Approved Trade Source System or the timeliness
or otherwise of the delivery of any Original Transaction, details by that Approved Trade Source
System to LCH.Clearnet SA. The ability of Clearing Members to submit Original Transactions
through a particular Approved Trade Source System may be suspended from time to time provided
that any such suspension applies to all Clearing Members and, where reasonably practicable,
LCH.Clearnet SA gives at least 2 Clearing Days notice of such suspension.
Article 3.1.6.7
In the event that LCH.Clearnet SA registers Cleared Transactions on the basis of incorrect or
corrupted data sent to it by an Approved Trade Source System, the Clearing Member concerned
shall be bound by the terms of such Cleared Transactions. LCH.Clearnet SA may agree to use its
reasonable endeavours to assist the relevant Clearing Members in re-registering such trades on
the correct basis but it shall be under no obligation to do so. LCH.Clearnet SA shall not be liable to
Clearing Members or anyone else with regard to the registration of such Cleared Transactions.

Section 3.1.7 Pre-registration
Article 3.1.7.1
Pre-registration is an internal process implemented by LCH.Clearnet SA for the purposes only of
ensuring that:
(i)

the terms of the relevant Eligible Intraday Transactions or Irrevocable Backloading
Transactions, as applicable,

(ii)

in respect of a Receiving Clearing Member, the Client Cleared Transactions to be
transferred to it in accordance with TITLE V, C
‎ hapter 3 or TITLE VI, Chapter 3 (as
applicable); and/or

(iii)

in respect of a Backup Clearing Member, the Relevant Client Cleared Transactions to be
transferred to it in accordance with clause 4.3 of the CDS Default Management Process,

are taken into account for the purposes of determining the Intraday Novation Margin Requirement
and/or the Margin Requirement for each Margin Account of each Clearing Member, on the relevant
Clearing Day pursuant to Section 4.2.3 and Section 2 of the Procedures.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

95

Published on 14 April 2016

For the avoidance of doubt, pre-registration of:
(i)

the positions corresponding to an Eligible Intraday Transaction or an Irrevocable
Backloading Transaction does not constitute the novation of such Eligible Intraday
Transaction or Irrevocable Backloading Transaction; and

(ii)

a Client Cleared Transaction or Relevant Client Cleared Transaction does not constitute
the actual transfer of such Client Cleared Transaction or Relevant Client Cleared
Transaction to the Receiving Clearing Member or Backup Clearing Member, as applicable.

Article 3.1.7.2
LCH.Clearnet SA shall upon successful completion of:
(i)

in respect of an Intraday Transaction: the Eligibility Controls and the Client Transaction
Checks (if applicable);

(ii)

in respect of an Irrevocable Weekly Backloading Transaction: the Eligibility Controls
performed on the Weekly Backloading Novation Day; or

(iii)

in respect of an Irrevocable Daily Backloading Transaction: the Eligibility Controls
performed on the Daily Backloading Novation Day;

promptly pre-register the positions corresponding to the relevant Original Transaction in the
Account Structure of the relevant Clearing Member. The position that will be pre-registered will be
equivalent to the Cleared Transaction that would be registered on the clearing of such Original
Transaction.
Article 3.1.7.3
LCH.Clearnet SA shall pre-register:
(i)

the Client Cleared Transactions to be transferred to a Receiving Clearing Member in
accordance with TITLE V, Chapter 3 or TITLE VI, Chapter 3 (as applicable); or

(ii)

the Relevant Client Cleared Transactions to be transferred to a Backup Clearing Member
in accordance with clause 4.3 of the CDS Default Management Process;

in the Account Structure of the relevant Receiving Clearing Member or Backup Clearing Member,
as applicable.

Section 3.1.8 Margin calculation
Article 3.1.8.1
LCH.Clearnet SA shall calculate the Margin Requirement and the Variation Margin Requirement
for each Margin Account of each Clearing Member in accordance with Title IV, Chapter 2 and
Section 2 of the Procedures, taking into account the Open Positions registered within its Account
Structure plus, where applicable, the positions corresponding to Eligible Intraday Transactions and
Irrevocable Backloading Transactions pre-registered in the Account Structure of the relevant
Clearing Member in accordance with Section 3.1.7.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

96

Published on 14 April 2016

Section 3.1.9 Loss Distribution Periods
Article 3.1.9.1
If, on a Business Day and in accordance with Clause 7.3 of the CDS Default Management
Process, LCH.Clearnet SA requests that an adjustment be made to the Loss Distribution Cap
Amount for one or more Non-Defaulting Clearing Member(s), and such day is also:
(i)

a Daily Backloading Novation Day but not a Weekly Backloading Novation Day: the
novation of all Daily Backloading Transactions that have not been novated prior to such
request will be postponed; or

(ii)

a Daily Backloading Novation Day and a Weekly Backloading Novation Day: the novation
of all Backloading Transactions that have not been novated prior to such request will be
postponed.

In this circumstance, LCH.Clearnet SA shall promptly, and by no later than 07.45, publish a
Clearing Notice notifying all Clearing Members that it will not novate any Original Transactions
submitted to LCH.Clearnet SA for clearing on such Clearing Day unless and until each affected
Non-Defaulting Clearing Member has agreed to an adjustment to their Loss Distribution Cap
Amount. For the avoidance of doubt, such Clearing Notice will not identify the Non-Defaulting
Clearing Members who are being consulted in relation to an adjustment to their Loss Distribution
Cap Amount.
Article 3.1.9.2
In the event that each relevant Non-Defaulting Clearing Member agrees to an adjustment to their
Loss Distribution Cap Amount on such Business Day in the form and within the timeframe set out
in the relevant Clearing Notice, LCH.Clearnet SA will promptly distribute the relevant Backloading
Transaction Reports (in accordance with and subject to Section 5 of the Procedures) to each
Clearing Member for that Business Day. Following the Morning Call made by LCH.Clearnet SA,
each Clearing Member will be required to satisfy the Margin Requirement(s) and Variation Margin
Requirement(s) in respect of the Margin Account(s) for each of its Account Structure(s) at the time
of the next available TARGET2 payment window (as set out in Section 3 of the Procedures) on
such Business Day, save that if the time of the next available TARGET2 payment window is less
than 45 minutes from the time of distribution of the relevant Backloading Transaction Reports (in
accordance with Section 5 of the Procedures) each Clearing Member will be required to satisfy the
Margin Requirement(s) and Variation Margin Requirement(s) in respect of the Margin Account(s)
for each of its Account Structure(s) at the time of the second next available TARGET2 payment
window on such Business Day. LCH.Clearnet SA shall ensure that each Clearing Member is
provided with at least 45 minutes notice of the time at which it will be required to satisfy the Margin
Requirement(s) and Variation Margin Requirement(s) in respect of the Margin Account(s) for each
of its Account Structure(s) on such Business Day.
Article 3.1.9.3
Provided that following the Morning Call made by LCH.Clearnet SA, each Clearing Member
satisfies its Margin Requirement(s) and Variation Margin Requirement(s) in respect of the Margin
Account(s) for each of its Account Structure(s) by the close of the relevant TARGET2 payment
window, in accordance with Article 3.1.9.2, all the Backloading Transactions submitted to
LCH.Clearnet SA for clearing pursuant to Section 3.1.1 or Section 3.1.2 shall be novated as soon
as technologically practicable after the Clearing Member Novation Acceptance Time. In the event
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

97

Published on 14 April 2016

that a Backloading Failure occurs in respect of any Clearing Member, LCH.Clearnet SA shall
novate the Backloading Transactions that have not become Rejected Transactions as a result of
Section 3.1.3.
Article 3.1.9.4
If any Non-Defaulting Clearing Member does not agree to an adjustment to its Loss Distribution
Cap Amount on such Business Day in the form and within the timeframe set out in the relevant
Clearing Notice, an Early Termination Trigger Date shall arise, in accordance with Clause 8.1 of
the CDS Default Management Process. Upon an Early Termination Trigger Date, LCH.Clearnet SA
shall promptly publish a Clearing Notice notifying all Clearing Members that an Early Termination
Trigger Date has arisen, and that LCH.Clearnet SA will not novate any more Original Transactions
submitted to it for clearing on such day (if such day is a Clearing Day) and will not accept any
Original Transactions which are submitted to LCH.Clearnet SA for clearing by Clearing Members
at any time after the Early Termination Trigger Date has arisen.

Section 3.1.10

Registration of Cleared Transactions

Article 3.1.10.1
Following the novation of Backloading Transactions in accordance with S
‎ ection 3.1.1 or Section
3.1.2, and, if applicable, the compression of Cleared Transactions in accordance with Title III,
Chapter 3 and Section 5 of the Procedures, LCH.Clearnet SA shall promptly arrange for:
(i)

the removal of the relevant Backloading Transactions from the TIW on behalf the relevant
Clearing Members and/or Client(s);

(ii)

if applicable, the removal of the Cleared Transactions which are terminated as a result of
the compression process; and

(iii)

the registration of the relevant Cleared Transactions in the TIW on its own behalf and on
behalf the relevant Clearing Members.

For the avoidance of doubt, if Cleared Transactions have been compressed pursuant to TITLE III,
Chapter 3 as part of the Daily Backloading Cycle or the Weekly Backloading Cycle in accordance
with ‎Article 3.1.1.9 or ‎Article 3.1.2.4, as applicable, LCH.Clearnet SA shall register in the TIW only
the compressed Cleared Transaction(s), if any.
Article 3.1.10.2
Following the novation of Intraday Transactions in accordance with Section 3.1.4, LCH.Clearnet
SA shall, in accordance with Section 5 of the Procedures, promptly arrange for:
(i)

if applicable, the removal of the relevant Intraday Transactions from the TIW on behalf of
the relevant Clearing Members which have already been registered in the TIW but which
are terminated as a result of the registration of the relevant Cleared Transactions; and

(ii)

the registration of the two related Cleared Transactions in the TIW on its own behalf and
on behalf the relevant Clearing Members.

Article 3.1.10.3
Cleared Transactions shall be registered by LCH.Clearnet SA in the CDS Clearing System in the
Account Structure of the relevant Clearing Members.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

98

Published on 14 April 2016

Article 3.1.10.4
The terms and conditions of Cleared Transactions are determined pursuant to the CDS Clearing
Supplement.
Article 3.1.10.5
Each relevant Clearing Member with respect to an Original Transaction novated in accordance
with the CDS Clearing Rules and the CDS Clearing Supplement must ensure that its books and
records are updated to reflect the novation of such Original Transaction and the creation of the
relevant Cleared Transaction as soon as reasonably practicable after the relevant Cleared Trades
Report has been made available to such Clearing Member, in accordance with Section 5 of the
Procedures, following novation of such Original Transaction in accordance with A
‎ rticle 3.1.6.1.
Article 3.1.10.6
Cleared Transactions are registered in Trade Accounts on a trade by trade basis. LCH.Clearnet SA
will not perform compression or netting at the Trade Account level otherwise than pursuant to
TITLE III, ‎Chapter 3.
Article 3.1.10.7
The process as described in A
‎ rticle 3.1.10.1 will apply, mutatis mutandis, in all other
circumstances where termination and creation messages relating to Cleared Transactions of a
Clearing Member are to be exchanged between the Approved Trade Source System,
LCH.Clearnet SA and such Clearing Member, including, without limitation, in connection with:
(i)

the creation of Restructuring Matched Pairs or Settlement Matched Pairs (where
applicable and subject to Sections 5 and 6 of Part A or Part B, as applicable, of the CDS
Clearing Supplement, as applicable); and

(ii)

the transfer of Cleared Transactions.

Article 3.1.10.8
Upon the occurrence of specific events where LCH.Clearnet SA manually undertakes, with respect
to any Cleared Transactions, automatic processes that are usually provided by the TIW in
accordance with Section 5 of the Procedures, LCH.Clearnet SA will charge the relevant Clearing
Member fees for undertaking such manual procedure, specified in a fee grid published from time to
time by LCH.Clearnet SA on its Website.

Section 3.1.11

Reporting requirements

Article 3.1.11.1
LCH.Clearnet SA and the Clearing Member shall comply with their obligations to report the details
of a Cleared Transaction and any modification or termination of such Cleared Transaction without
duplication to a trade repository duly registered or recognised in accordance with EMIR, or if such
a trade repository is not available, to the European Securities and Markets Authority, in
accordance with the requirements of EMIR and at the times and in the manner set out in Section 5
of the Procedures.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

99

Published on 14 April 2016

Article 3.1.11.2
LCH.Clearnet SA shall submit any report required under Part 45 of the CFTC Regulations in
respect of any Cleared Transactions, in accordance with Section 5 of the Procedures.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

100

Published on 14 April 2016

CHAPTER 2 – HOUSE ACCOUNT STRUCTURE

Section 3.2.1 House Trade Account
Article 3.2.1.1
LCH.Clearnet SA shall open one House Trade Account for each Clearing Member.
Article 3.2.1.2
Registration of Cleared Transactions in a House Trade Account shall initially be made by
LCH.Clearnet SA on the basis of the Transaction Data with respect to the relevant Original
Transaction and amended to reflect any compression of Cleared Transactions pursuant TITLE III,
Chapter 3.

Section 3.2.2 House Margin Account
Article 3.2.2.1
LCH.Clearnet SA shall open one House Margin Account for each Clearing Member for the
purposes of risk calculation, as described in Title IV.
Article 3.2.2.2
House Cleared Transactions of a Clearing Member will be allocated to the House Margin Account
of the Clearing Member, for the purposes of the determination of Open Positions registered in such
House Margin Account.
Article 3.2.2.3
LCH.Clearnet SA shall calculate a Clearing Member's Open Positions registered in its House
Margin Account by netting the Cleared Transactions which are allocated to the House Margin
Account and which are of the same CDS Type.

Section 3.2.3 House Collateral Account
Article 3.2.3.1
Cash Collateral provided by Clearing Members to satisfy its House Margin Requirement or to
create House Excess Collateral, will be provided by way of full title transfer and will be held by
LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Section 3 of the Procedures.
Article 3.2.3.2

.

At the option of each Clearing Member, and in accordance with Section 3 of the Procedures,
Eligible Collateral may be transferred by the relevant Clearing Member to LCH.Clearnet SA to
satisfy its House Margin Requirement or to create House Excess Collateral, either on a full title
transfer basis pursuant to Article L. 440-7 of the French Monetary and Financial Code, or by way
of a Belgian law security interest with no title transfer pursuant to the applicable provisions of
Belgian law.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

101

Published on 14 April 2016

Article 3.2.3.3
LCH.Clearnet SA shall open one House Collateral Account for each Clearing Member for the
purposes of identifying Collateral such Clearing Member has provided to satisfy its House Margin
Requirement or to create House Excess Collateral.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

102

Published on 14 April 2016

CHAPTER 3 - COMPRESSION

Section 3.3.1 General
Article 3.3.1.1
Subject to Article 3.3.1.3, there will be no compression of Cleared Transactions unless requested
by a Clearing Member in accordance with this Section 3.3.1. Two methods are available to
Clearing Members:
(i)

ad hoc compression which can be requested by any Clearing Member only in respect of
Cleared Transactions which have already been registered in the TIW; or

(ii)

automatic compression which can be set up by a Clearing Member in respect of:
(a)

Cleared Transactions which have been novated as part of the Daily Backloading
Cycle and/or Weekly Backloading Cycle but have not yet been registered in the
TIW: such Cleared Transactions may be compressed with (x) other Cleared
Transactions novated as part the same Daily Backloading Cycle or Weekly
Backloading Cycle, as applicable, and/or (y) other Cleared Transactions already
registered in the TIW; and/or

(b)

Cleared Transactions already registered in the TIW.

The process and conditions for ad hoc compression and automatic compression are set out in
further details in Section 5 of the Procedures.
Article 3.3.1.2
A request by a Clearing Member to effect compression in accordance with this Section 3.3.1 and
Section 5 of the Procedures, may only be made in relation to Cleared Transactions which are
registered in the same Trade Account of such Clearing Member.
Article 3.3.1.3
As set out in Section 5 of the Procedures following a Credit Event in respect of any Cleared
Transactions, other than a Restructuring Credit Event, LCH.Clearnet SA may compress Cleared
Transactions to result in one or more Cleared Transaction(s) per CDS Type.
As set out in Section 5 of the Procedures following a Restructuring Credit Event in respect of any
Cleared Transactions, LCH.Clearnet SA may compress Single Name Cleared Transactions to
result in one or more Cleared Transaction(s) per CDS Type.
As set out Section 5 of in the Procedures following a DC Credit Event Announcement, if the
Fallback Settlement Method applies in respect of any Cleared Transactions, LCH.Clearnet SA may
compress Physically Settled Cleared Transactions to result in one or more Cleared Transactions
per CDS Type.
Following an Event of Default, TITLE IV, CHAPTER 3 of this CDS Clearing Rule Book shall prevail
and apply in relation to all matters concerning aggregation, compression, set off, closing out and
termination of Cleared Transactions.
Article 3.3.1.4
In the event that a Clearing Member does elect for the compression of some or all of its Cleared
Transactions in accordance with this Section 3.3.1 and Section 5 of the Procedures, such
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

103

Published on 14 April 2016

compression shall take place through termination of the relevant existing Cleared Transaction or
Cleared Transactions of the same CDS Type in consideration for entry into a new replacement
single Cleared Transaction.
Article 3.3.1.5
Neither Article 3.3.1.1 nor Article 3.3.1.3 affects the definition, or calculation, of the Open Positions
registered in each Margin Account of a Clearing Member, the Clearing Member's Margin
Requirement, or the Clearing Member's Contribution Requirement.
Article 3.3.1.6
LCH.Clearnet SA will reflect each compression in the records of the TIW on its own behalf and on
behalf the relevant Clearing Members and/or Clients, in accordance with Section 5 of the
Procedures.
If the records of trades in the TIW do not reflect the Cleared Transactions to which a Clearing
Member and LCH.Clearnet SA are party following compression, then LCH.Clearnet SA will correct
the records of the TIW accordingly.
Article 3.3.1.7
Where compression has taken place in respect of any Cleared Transactions, the accrued Fixed
Amounts for the relevant Cleared Transactions shall be netted and the Fixed Amount for the
Cleared Transaction resulting from the compression shall be determined by reference to the
Cleared Transactions which were compressed.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

104

Published on 14 April 2016

TITLE IV
RISK MANAGEMENT

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

105

Published on 14 April 2016

CHAPTER 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 4.1.1
Article 4.1.1.1
For each Clearing Member, all calculations and determinations (including calculation of the House
Margin Requirement, Client Margin Requirement, House Variation Margin Requirement and Client
Variation Margin Requirement) performed by LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to Title IV, CHAPTER 2
and Sections 2 and 3 of the Procedures shall be undertaken separately in respect of its House
Margin Account and each of its Client Margin Accounts,
notwithstanding that in respect of its Client Margin Accounts, LCH.Clearnet SA will:
(i)

require a Clearing Member to transfer Collateral to meet its Total Client Margin
Requirement and/or make Cash Payments where the Total Client Variation Margin
Requirement is due to LCH.Clearnet SA; and/or

(ii)

make Cash Payments to a Clearing Member where the Total Client Variation Margin
Requirement is due to such Clearing Member,

in accordance with Sections 2 and 3 of the Procedures.
Article 4.1.1.2
LCH.Clearnet SA shall calculate the Margin Requirements on the basis of the Open Positions
registered in each relevant Margin Account. Where applicable, LCH.Clearnet SA shall also take
into account those positions corresponding to Irrevocable Backloading Transactions pre-registered
in the Account Structure of such Clearing Member.
Article 4.1.1.3
Once a Cleared Transaction is terminated or duly settled in accordance with its terms, such
Cleared Transaction will no longer be taken into account for the purposes of calculating the Margin
Requirement for the relevant Margin Account of the Clearing Member.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

106

Published on 14 April 2016

CHAPTER 2 - MARGIN

Section 4.2.1 Margin Requirement
Article 4.2.1.1
In order to manage its risk exposure, LCH.Clearnet SA shall require each Clearing Member to
transfer to LCH.Clearnet SA such Collateral as is necessary to satisfy its House Margin
Requirement and its Total Client Margin Requirement. LCH.Clearnet SA shall make Collateral
Calls, in accordance with ‎Section 4.2.3 below and Section 3 of the Procedures, for this purpose.
Article 4.2.1.2
LCH.Clearnet SA shall be entitled, in consultation with the Risk Committee where reasonably
possible, at any time to:
(i)

impose, amend or withdraw additional requirements in relation to the calculation of Margin
payable by all Clearing Members; or

(ii)

require Credit Quality Margin to be paid by a particular Clearing Member.

Where advance consultation with the Risk Committee is not practicable, LCH.Clearnet SA shall be
required to seek the advice of the Risk Committee at its next meeting as regards the continued
applicability of any such amended Margin calculations and shall seek ratification of the decision to
amend the manner in which LCH.Clearnet SA makes its Margin calculations at the next meeting of
the LCH.Clearnet SA board of directors.

Section 4.2.2 Excess Collateral and the Client Collateral Buffer
Article 4.2.2.1
A Clearing Member may specify, and may update, its House Excess Collateral Threshold and its
Client Collateral Buffer Threshold at such times and in such manner as set out in Section 2 of the
Procedures.
House Excess Collateral can be used by LCH.Clearnet SA to cover increases in the House Margin
Requirement and to satisfy the Notional and Collateral Check carried out by LCH.Clearnet SA in
respect of Eligible Intraday Transactions comprising one or more House Trade Leg(s).
In the case of a CCM, CCM Client Excess Collateral can be used by LCH.Clearnet SA to cover
increases in the relevant CCM Client Margin Requirement(s) calculated in respect of the Margin
Accounts for a CCM Client Account Structure and to satisfy the Notional and Collateral Check
carried out by LCH.Clearnet SA in respect of Eligible Intraday Transactions comprising one or
more Client Trade Leg(s).
In the case of an FCM Clearing Member and in accordance with Article 6.2.5.1(ii), any intraday
FCM Client Excess Collateral attributable to a specific FCM Client Financial Account can be used
by LCH.Clearnet SA to cover increases in the relevant FCM Client Margin Requirement and to
satisfy the Notional and Collateral Check carried out by LCH.Clearnet SA in respect of Eligible
Intraday Transactions comprising one or more Client Trade Leg(s).

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

107

Published on 14 April 2016

Article 4.2.2.2
If at any time, in respect of a Clearing Member:
(i)

its House Excess Collateral falls below its House Excess Collateral Threshold; and/or

(ii)

its Client Collateral Buffer falls below its Client Collateral Buffer Threshold,

LCH.Clearnet SA shall request the Clearing Member, at the next Collateral Call, to transfer
Collateral equal to the House Excess Collateral Shortfall and the Client Collateral Buffer Shortfall.
Article 4.2.2.3
A Clearing Member may increase the amount of:
(i)

House Excess Collateral;

(ii)

in the case of a CCM:
(a)

CCM Client Excess Collateral recorded in a particular CCM Client Collateral
Account; or

(b)

CCM Client Collateral Buffer,

by transferring additional Collateral to LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Section 3 of the
Procedures.
Article 4.2.2.4
If, when carrying out a Notional and Collateral Check in respect of the Client Trade Leg of an
Eligible Intraday Transaction, LCH.Clearnet SA determines that there is insufficient Client Excess
Collateral allocated to:
(i)

in the case of a CCM: the relevant CCM Client Account Structure; or

(ii)

in the case of an FCM Clearing Member: the relevant FCM Client Margin Account,

to enable the novation of such Client Trade Leg, but there is sufficient Available Client Collateral
Buffer, an amount of the Available Client Collateral Buffer shall be “allocated” to:
(a)

in the case of a CCM: the relevant CCM Client Account Structure; or

(b)

in the case of an FCM Clearing Member: the relevant FCM Client Margin Account,

in accordance with Section 2 of the Procedures, so as to satisfy the Intraday Novation Margin
Requirement.
LCH.Clearnet SA will update the value of the Available Client Collateral Buffer for each relevant
Clearing Member following:
(i)

the novation of each Intraday Transaction comprising one or more Client Trade Leg(s), if
applicable; and

(ii)

each Collateral Call.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

108

Published on 14 April 2016

Article 4.2.2.5
Where, in the case of a CCM:
(i)

in respect of the CCM House Collateral Account: the CCM Margin Balance exceeds the
CCM House Margin Requirement;

(ii)

in respect of a CCM Client Collateral Account: the CCM Margin Balance exceeds the
relevant CCM Client Margin Requirement(s) calculated in respect of the Margin Accounts
for the relevant CCM Client Account Structure; and/or

(iii)

in respect of the Buffer Collateral Account: there is CCM Available Client Collateral Buffer;

the CCM may request to have Collateral returned to it in accordance with the process set out in
Section 3 of the Procedures.
Where, in the case of an FCM Clearing Member:
(i)

in respect of the FCM House Collateral Account; the FCM Margin Balance exceeds the
FCM House Margin Requirement, the FCM Clearing Member may request to have
Collateral returned to it in accordance with the process set out in Section 3 of the
Procedures and subject to Article 6.2.5.1(i); and

(ii)

in respect of the FCM Client Collateral Account:
(a)

the FCM Margin Balance of an FCM Client Financial Account exceeds the relevant
FCM Client Margin Requirement prior to the Morning Call; or

(b)

the value of the Collateral attributed to the FCM Buffer Financial Account exceeds
the FCM Client Collateral Buffer Threshold,

the amount of the excess will be reclassified as FCM Unallocated Client Excess Collateral
and thereafter may be returned to the FCM Clearing Member upon request in the
conditions set out in Section 3 of the Procedures and subject to Article 6.2.5.1.
Article 4.2.2.6
A request to have Collateral returned, in accordance with Article 4.2.2.5 and Section 3 of the
Procedures, will not impact the House Excess Collateral Threshold or Client Collateral Buffer
Threshold specified by the Clearing Member. Unless separately updated in accordance with Article
4.2.2.1 and Section 2 of the Procedures, LCH.Clearnet SA shall continue to use the previously
notified House Excess Collateral Threshold and Client Collateral Buffer Threshold for the purposes
of making Collateral Calls pursuant to Section 4.2.3.

Section 4.2.3 Collateral Calls
Article 4.2.3.1
Prior to each Collateral Call (other than an Additional Collateral Call), for each Clearing Member,
LCH.Clearnet SA shall calculate, at such times set out in Section 2 of the Procedures and in such
manner set out in Sections 2 and 3 of the Procedures:
(i)

in respect of its House Account Structure and each of its CCM Client Account
Structure(s) in the case of a CCM or each of its FCM Client Margin Account(s) in the
case of an FCM Clearing Member:
(a) the Margin Requirement for each Margin Account;

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

109

Published on 14 April 2016

(b) the Variation Margin Requirement for each Margin Account, in accordance with

‎Article 4.2.5.2;
(c) the Margin Balance; and
(ii)

the Client Collateral Buffer.

On the basis of such calculations, LCH.Clearnet SA shall determine, in respect of each Clearing
Member, whether there is:
(i)

in respect of the House Account Structure and each CCM Client Account Structure(s) or
as the case may be, each FCM Client Margin Account(s), a Margin Shortfall or an
Excess Collateral; and

(ii)

a Client Collateral Buffer Shortfall.

LCH.Clearnet SA shall perform these calculations in accordance with A
‎ rticle 4.1.1.1 at the times
and in the manner set out in Sections 2 and 3 of the Procedures.
On each Business Day, following each calculation made by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with

‎Article 4.2.3.1, LCH.Clearnet SA shall inform each Clearing Member, in accordance with Section 5
of the Procedures, of:
(i)

in respect of its House Account Structure and each of its CCM Client Account
Structure(s) or as the case may be, each of its FCM Client Margin Account(s):
(a) the Margin Requirement for each Margin Account;
(b) the Variation Margin Requirement for each Margin Account;
(c) the Margin Balance;
(d) the Margin Shortfall or Excess Collateral, as the case may be;
(e) the House Excess Collateral Shortfall (in respect of the House Margin Account
only);

(ii)

any Client Collateral Buffer Shortfall (if any);

(iii)

for an FCM Clearing Member, the FCM Unallocated Client Excess Collateral,

through the reports made available to each Clearing Member in accordance with, and subject to,
Section 5 of the Procedures.
The failure by LCH.Clearnet SA to provide any such reports shall not invalidate its ability to debit a
Clearing Member’s TARGET2 Account and/or any other cash account(s) as the case may be, in
accordance with A
‎ rticle 4.2.3.2, using the Power of Attorney issued in its favour in accordance with

‎Article 2.2.1.1(xiv)(a), to cover any Required Collateral Amount and/or Variation Margin.
Article 4.2.3.2
As set out in Section 3 of the Procedures, LCH.Clearnet SA will make a Collateral Call of an
amount equal to the Required Collateral Amount in accordance with Section 3 of the Procedures.
At the same time as each Collateral Call (other than an Additional Collateral Call), except as
otherwise provided for in the Procedures, each Clearing Member or LCH.Clearnet SA, as the case
may be, shall also be required to make a Cash Payment to satisfy the Variation Margin
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

110

Published on 14 April 2016

Requirement applicable to each of the Clearing Member’s Margin Accounts.Such payments shall
be made in the currency as provided for in Section 3 of the Procedures.
By exception to the above, in any circumstance preventing the Cash Payments from being
performed in US Dollar, LCH.Clearnet SA shall be entitled, and inform the Clearing Members of its
intention, to convert any amount denominated in US Dollar in Euro, such conversion to be effected
at the prevailing rate of exchange at the time of conversion and therefore, the Cash Payments
obligations shall be performed in Euro, in accordance with Section 3 of the Procedures.
All payments required to be made, in accordance with this Article 4.2.3.2, will be netted in the
manner set out in Section 3 of the Procedures.
Article 4.2.3.3
The failure to transfer Collateral in an amount equal to:
(i)

the House Excess Collateral Shortfall;

(ii)

the Client Collateral Buffer Shortfall; and/or

(iii)

the Allocated Client Collateral Buffer,

in accordance with ‎Article 4.2.3.2 shall not constitute a Payment Failure in respect of the relevant
Clearing Member.

Section 4.2.4 Additional Collateral Call
Article 4.2.4.1
LCH.Clearnet SA shall, at any time on any day in accordance with the CDS Clearing Rules, have
the right to calculate and make a Collateral Call on a Clearing Member to transfer to LCH.Clearnet
SA such additional Collateral through:
(i)

TARGET2, provided that such day is a Business Day;

(ii)

its cash account(s) in US Dollar, provided that such day is a day on which commercial
banks in New York City are open for business,

as LCH.Clearnet SA deems necessary to manage its risk exposure.
For the avoidance of doubt, such Collateral Call may relate to either a House Account Structure or
a Client Account Structure of a Clearing Member.
Article 4.2.4.2
Where LCH.Clearnet SA makes a Collateral Call in accordance with Article 4.2.4.1, each relevant
Clearing Member shall transfer Collateral in the form and by such time as is required by
LCH.Clearnet SA. LCH.Clearnet SA shall notify each relevant Clearing Member, as soon as is
reasonably practicable, providing at least 45 minutes notice of the time at which such Clearing
Member is required to transfer Collateral to LCH.Clearnet SA. LCH.Clearnet SA shall use all
reasonable endeavours, from the time at which the decision to make a Collateral Call is made by it
and until the time at which the Clearing Member is required to transfer Collateral, to contact each
relevant Clearing Member, by any method of communication available to it, to inform the Clearing
Member of its intention to make a Collateral Call in accordance with Article 4.2.4.1. Provided that
LCH.Clearnet SA has complied with the requirements of this Article 4.2.4.2, it shall have the right
to debit a Clearing Member’s TARGET2 Account or as the case may be, any cash account in US
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

111

Published on 14 April 2016

Dollar, using the Power of Attorney issued in its favour in accordance with Article 2.2.1.1(xiv)(a), to
cover any such Collateral requirement.

Section 4.2.5 Variation Margin
Article 4.2.5.1
In order to manage the risk of price fluctuations occurring in respect of a Clearing Member’s Open
Positions, LCH.Clearnet SA and/or the Clearing Member shall be required to make Cash
Payments (as applicable) to meet the House Variation Margin Requirement and Total Client
Variation Margin Requirement when such amounts are due and payable. LCH.Clearnet SA shall
separately calculate the Variation Margin Requirement for each Margin Account of a Clearing
Member in accordance with Section 2 of the Procedures.
Article 4.2.5.2
Variation Margin shall be payable by a Clearing Member or LCH.Clearnet SA, as applicable, at the
same time as the Morning Call and First Intraday Call, except as otherwise provided for in the
Procedures.
LCH.Clearnet SA and each Clearing Member required to make a Cash Payment in relation to such
Variation Margin shall do so by such times as set out in Section 3 of the Procedures.

Section 4.2.6 Collateral
Article 4.2.6.1
The list of Eligible Currencies and Eligible Collateral is set out in Section 3 of the Procedures.
LCH.Clearnet SA may notify Clearing Members of any change to what constitutes Eligible
Currencies or Eligible Collateral by publication of a Clearing Notice.
Article 4.2.6.2
On the specific written request of a Clearing Member, LCH.Clearnet SA shall ensure that the Risk
Committee is consulted on the acceptance of any type of currency, security or other type of asset
as an Eligible Currency or as Eligible Collateral as the case may be, provided that Applicable Law
permits LCH.Clearnet SA to accept such currency, security or other asset as Collateral. If
Applicable Law no longer permits any currency, security or other asset to be accepted by a
LCH.Clearnet SA as Collateral, LCH.Clearnet SA shall amend the list of Eligible Currencies and
Eligible Collateral in accordance with Article 1.2.2.4 (ii)(a).
Article 4.2.6.3
(i)

A CCM shall post Cash Collateral and/or Eligible Collateral:
(a)

to satisfy the Margin Requirement(s) in respect of the Margin Accounts for each of
its Account Structures;

(b)

where such CCM wishes to maintain Collateral over and above that which is
needed to satisfy the CCM Client Margin Requirement(s) in respect of the Margin
Accounts for any of its CCM Client Account Structures, in the relevant CCM Client
Collateral Account;

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

112

Published on 14 April 2016

(c)

where such CCM wishes to maintain Collateral over and above that which is
needed to satisfy the CCM House Margin Requirement in the CCM House
Collateral Account; and/or

(d)

where such CCM wishes to maintain CCM Client Collateral Buffer in its Buffer
Collateral Account,

in accordance with the conditions set out in Section 3 of the Procedures.
(ii)

An FCM Clearing Member shall post Cash Collateral and/or Eligible Collateral:
(a)

to satisfy the Margin Requirement, in respect of each of its Margin Accounts;

(b)

where such FCM Clearing Member wishes to maintain FCM Client Collateral
Buffer, in the FCM Buffer Financial Account; and/or

(c)

where such FCM Clearing Member wishes to maintain FCM House Excess
Collateral, in the FCM House Collateral Account,

in accordance with the conditions set out in Section 3 of the Procedures.
Article 4.2.6.4
LCH.Clearnet SA may apply such haircuts to Eligible Collateral and such FX adjustments to Cash
Collateral as set out on the Website in calculating (as applicable):
(i)

the Margin Balance for each Account Structure of a CCM;

(ii)

the Margin Balance for any FCM House Margin Account;

(iii)

the aggregate value of Collateral (excluding FCM Client Collateral Buffer) transferred by
an FCM Clearing Member to LCH.Clearnet SA to meet its Total Client Margin Requirement
for purposes of and to the extent relevant for determining the Margin Balance and the
Legally Segregated Value for each FCM Client Margin Account of such FCM Clearing
Member; and

(iv)

the value of the Client Collateral Buffer.

Article 4.2.6.5
Cash Collateral and Eligible Collateral transferred to LCH.Clearnet SA shall be held by
LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Section 3 of the Procedures.
Article 4.2.6.6
In providing any Eligible Collateral to LCH.Clearnet SA, a Clearing Member shall represent and
warrant that:
(i)

the Clearing Member is the sole and beneficial owner of the assets making up such
Eligible Collateral or, if an FCM Clearing Member provides Eligible Collateral for which it is
not the sole and beneficial owner, such FCM Clearing Member has the right to grant to
LCH.Clearnet SA a first security interest in and first priority and unencumbered first lien
upon the assets making up such Eligible Collateral;

(ii)

none of the assets making up the Eligible Collateral for which the Clearing Member is the
sole and beneficial owner are subject to any security interest, encumbrance or other third

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

113

Published on 14 April 2016

party interest (other than a lien routinely imposed on all securities in a clearing system in
which any such Eligible Collateral may be held);
(iii)

the use or application of the Eligible Collateral by LCH.Clearnet SA will not breach
Applicable Law or any obligations owed by such Clearing Member to any third party; and

(iv)

it has the right, or will have the right at the time of their being credited to the relevant
account, to transfer the Eligible Collateral to LCH.Clearnet SA for security purposes.

Section 4.2.7

Markit LCH Settlement Price

Article 4.2.7.1
LCH.Clearnet SA will use End of Day Contributed Prices, or if, for any reason whatsoever, such
End of Day Contributed Prices are not available to LCH.Clearnet SA, other composite
prices/spreads provided by the Index Publisher or such other prices/spreads as may be
determined by the Risk Committee, for the purposes of any risk calculation performed by
LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to this CDS Clearing Rule Book including, without limitation, calculating
and valuing a Clearing Member’s Open Positions and calculating its Margin Requirement. The
price/spread actually used by LCH.Clearnet SA to calculate the settlement prices for Cleared
Transactions on either an end of day or intra-day basis shall be referred to as the “Markit LCH
Settlement Price”.
Article 4.2.7.2
Each Clearing Member is hereby authorised:
(i)

to use the Markit LCH Settlement Prices internally and solely in connection with its
clearing functions;

(ii)

to provide Markit LCH Settlement Prices to those Clients with Open Positions registered in
its corresponding Client Margin Accounts; provided that: (a) such distribution is at no cost;
(b) the Markit LCH Settlement Prices are provided for use by such Clients internally and
solely in connection with their clearing functions, (c) any permitted onward distribution to
the Client's affiliates and clients is equivalently restricted, and (d) the Markit LCH
Settlement Prices are identified as such.

For the avoidance of doubt, “clearing functions” shall mean the validation of the Clearing
Member’s, or any relevant Clients’, Margin Requirements and the calculation and valuation of the
Clearing Member’s, or any relevant Client's, Open Positions for the purposes of its own internal
books and records.
Article 4.2.7.3
Each Clearing Member accepts that LCH.Clearnet SA, the Index Publisher and its data providers,
specifically disclaim (i) all warranties or representations as to, and (ii) all liabilities whether in
contract, tort (including, but not limited to, negligence) or otherwise in relation to, the quality,
fitness for purpose, completeness or accuracy of the Markit LCH Settlement Prices.
Article 4.2.7.4
Should a Clearing Member breach the provisions of this Section 4.2.7, it shall indemnify
LCH.Clearnet SA for any losses, costs, or expenses incurred by LCH.Clearnet SA as a result of
that breach.
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

114

Published on 14 April 2016

Article 4.2.7.5
Each Clearing Member acknowledges and agrees that the Markit LCH Settlement Prices are
provided “as is”, and that neither the Index Publisher nor any other person makes any
representation or warranty related to the Markit LCH Settlement Prices nor shall the Index
Publisher or any of its data providers have any liability, duty or obligation for or relating to the
Markit LCH Settlement Prices, any errors, inaccuracies, omissions or delays in content, or for any
actions taken in reliance thereon. In no event shall the Index Publisher or any of its data providers
be liable for damages including, without limitation, damages resulting from lost data or lost profits
or revenue, the costs of recovering such data, claims by third parties or for similar costs, or any
special, incidental or consequential damages arising out of the use of the Markit LCH Settlement
Prices.
Article 4.2.7.6
Each Clearing Member hereby makes the Index Publisher an intended third party beneficiary of
Article 4.2.7.1 to Article 4.2.7.5 above.
Article 4.2.7.7
In connection with the establishment and validation of an End of Day Contributed Price, each Price
Contribution Participant shall, in accordance with process set out in Section 5 of the Procedures
relating to End of Day Contributed Prices, enter into a CDS with another Price Contribution
Participant following notification from LCH.Clearnet SA that they are required to do so and the
terms on which such CDS should be executed. By the End of Day on the Price Contribution Day
following receipt of such notification from LCH.Clearnet SA, the Price Contribution Participant shall
evidence that such CDS has been entered into, as described in Section 5 of the Procedures.
Article 4.2.7.8
A Clearing Member can delegate the performance of its obligations: (i) to submit Market Data
pursuant to Section 5 of the Procedures; and (ii) to enter into CDS pursuant to Article 4.2.7.7
above to its Price Contribution Delegate.
Notwithstanding the due appointment of a Price Contribution Delegate, the Clearing Member shall
remain responsible to LCH.Clearnet SA for the due performance of its obligations under Article
4.2.7.7 above and Section 5 of the Procedures.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

115

Published on 14 April 2016

CHAPTER 3 - EVENTS OF DEFAULT

Section 4.3.1 Events of Default
Article 4.3.1.1
Where any of the following events occurs and is continuing with respect to a Clearing Member,
LCH.Clearnet SA shall, subject to Article 4.3.1.2, be entitled to determine that the relevant Event
constitutes an Event of Default in respect of such Clearing Member:
(i)

that Clearing Member fails to perform its obligations in accordance with, or is in breach of,
the CDS Clearing Documentation or the Pledge Agreement;

(ii)

that Clearing Member is declared to be in default by or is expelled from membership of
another clearing house;

(iii)

that Clearing Member is suspended by, or expelled from membership of, any Regulatory
Body;

(iv)

that Clearing Member commits a Payment Failure;

(v)

that Clearing Member is subject to Insolvency Proceedings;

(vi)

that in LCH.Clearnet SA's opinion, that Clearing Member is likely to become subject to
Insolvency Proceedings;

(vii)

that Clearing Member is subject to an event of default in connection with any other
clearing service provided to the Clearing Member by LCH.Clearnet SA; and/or

(viii)

that in LCH.Clearnet SA's opinion, that Clearing Member is likely to commit a Payment
Failure.

Article 4.3.1.2
Before LCH.Clearnet SA is entitled to determine that an Event constitutes an Event of Default,
LCH.Clearnet SA must:
(i)

attempt to notify (and, in the circumstances set out in Article 4.3.1.1(i), (ii), (iii) and (vi),
consult or attempt to consult with) the relevant Clearing Member regarding such Event,
further to which LCH.Clearnet SA may (without prejudice to any other rights under this
Section 4.3.1) agree a grace period within which the Clearing Member may remedy such
Event or institute Disciplinary Proceedings in respect of the Clearing Member;

(ii)

ensure that a decision to determine that such Event is an Event of Default has been
approved by the CEO of LCH.Clearnet SA or by appropriately senior personnel of
LCH.Clearnet SA;

(iii)

where such Event is neither a Payment Failure nor Insolvency Proceedings occurring in
respect of it, or in respect of any Parent, consider whether:
(a)

failing to determine that such Event constitutes an Event of Default would
materially adversely impact the ongoing financial soundness or the proper
performance of the CDS Clearing Service, or impact the solvency of LCH.Clearnet
SA; and

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

116

Published on 14 April 2016

(b)

(iv)

determining that such Event constitutes an Event of Default would be
proportionate in the given circumstances. In considering what constitutes
"proportionate" action, LCH.Clearnet SA should have particular regard to whether
another sanction could be imposed or alternative action taken by LCH.Clearnet SA
in respect of the relevant Clearing Member pursuant to the CDS Clearing
Documentation; and

notify the relevant Competent Authorities of such Event, provided that any failure to do so
shall not affect the validity and effectiveness of a Default Notice issued by LCH.Clearnet
SA in accordance with Article 4.3.1.3.

Article 4.3.1.3
As soon as possible after LCH.Clearnet SA has determined that an Event should constitute an
Event of Default in accordance with Article 4.3.1.2 or LCH.Clearnet SA has made an Automatic
Early Termination Event Stipulation, it shall:
(i)

issue a Default Notice;

(ii)

in the event that the Defaulting Clearing Member is an FCM Clearing Member, confirm
with the Defaulting Clearing Member the details of any FCM Clients who have instructed
LCH.Clearnet SA to transfer, or terminate, close out and re-establish, their FCM Cleared
Transactions to or with a BackUp Clearing Member in accordance with Regulation 4 of the
FCM CDS Clearing Regulations and the CDS Default Management Process;

(iii)

publish a Clearing Notice on the Website specifying the name of the Defaulting Clearing
Member; and

(iv)

notify the TIW and each Approved Trade Source System.

Section 4.3.2 Measures in case of an Event of Default
Article 4.3.2.1
Following a determination that a particular Event should constitute an Event of Default,
LCH.Clearnet SA:
(i)

shall issue a Default Notice; and if the Defaulting Clearing Member is a CCM, at, or around
the same time, request the Defaulting Clearing Member to transfer its Client Pledged
Eligible Collateral, if any, to LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with the CDS Admission
Agreement and Section 3 of the Procedures; and

(ii)

may, in co-ordination with the relevant Regulatory Body(ies), as the case may be, take any
measure it deems necessary in order to contain its exposure and to mitigate overall
market effects, whether or not these measures are set out in the CDS Clearing
Documentation.

Article 4.3.2.2
LCH.Clearnet SA shall manage the impact of an Event of Default on Clearing Members and the
CDS Clearing Service in accordance with the CDS Default Management Process and
LCH.Clearnet SA, in taking any action pursuant to that process, shall consult with and consider
guidance and advice from the CDS Default Management Group. The CDS Default Management
Process and any procedures issued thereunder will be agreed by LCH.Clearnet SA in consultation
with the CDS Default Management Committee.
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

117

Published on 14 April 2016

Article 4.3.2.3
Following the declaration of an Event of Default or the making of an Automatic Early Termination
Event Stipulation and the issuance of a Default Notice, subject to Article 4.3.2.5, LCH.Clearnet SA
may take any of the following measures or any other measures that it deems necessary or useful
in respect of the Defaulting Clearing Member, taking into account the Event which has occurred,
the need to act promptly in the manner LCH.Clearnet SA thinks best to contain its exposure and
the actions to be taken in accordance with the CDS Default Management Process:
(i)

in the case of a CCM, port some or all the Relevant Client Cleared Transactions and some
or all of the Ported Collateral of the Defaulting Clearing Member to the appointed Backup
Clearing Member in accordance with Clause 4.3 of the CDS Default Management Process
and, in the case of an FCM, arrange for porting to take place in accordance with
Regulation 4 of the FCM CDS Clearing Regulations and the CDS Default Management
Process;

(ii)

terminate the Defaulting Clearing Member’s membership of the CDS Clearing Service in
accordance with Article 2.4.2.1, it being specified that such termination shall not affect the
Delegation, which will remain in full force and effect.

(iii)

enter into and register any new Original Transaction in the name, or for the account, of the
Defaulting Clearing Member;

(iv)

suspend the Defaulting Clearing Member’s ability to submit any new Original Transactions
for clearing by LCH.Clearnet SA or those Original Transactions that LCH.Clearnet SA does
not consider as contributing to reducing the risks of the Defaulting Clearing Member;

(v)

impose an increased Margin Requirement in respect of any of the Margin Accounts of the
Defaulting Clearing Member in order to secure the performance by the Defaulting Clearing
Member of its obligations under the CDS Clearing Documentation;

(vi)

call for Collateral equal to the value of any shortfall in the Defaulting Clearing Member's
Contribution, arising from the Event of Default, and the Additional Contribution Amount to
be transferred to LCH.Clearnet SA;

(vii)

in the event that the Defaulting Clearing Member was a Matched Buyer for the purposes of
Physical Settlement of a Cleared Transaction which was the subject of a Matched Pair, call
for Collateral equal to the value of any claim by the corresponding Matched Seller under
Sections 9.2(a), (b), (c)(i) or (c)(iv) of the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions, or
Sections 11.2(a), (b), (c)(i) or (c)(iv) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions as
applicable, in accordance with Section 6.18 of Part A, or Section 6.19 of Part B as
applicable, of the CDS Clearing Supplement, to be transferred to LCH.Clearnet SA;

(viii)

declare any Cleared Transaction of the Defaulting Clearing Member, other than the
Relevant Client Cleared Transactions which have been ported in accordance with Clause
4.3 of the CDS Default Management Process, to be terminated, declare one or more of the
obligations of the Defaulting Clearing Member to be due and payable immediately, convert
the delivery obligations of the Defaulting Clearing Member or LCH.Clearnet SA into
payment obligations and/or set off all the reciprocal payment obligations of the Defaulting
Clearing Member and LCH.Clearnet SA, so that these payment obligations will be deemed
satisfied, in whole or in part, to the extent of the set-off;

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

118

Published on 14 April 2016

(ix)

execute, for LCH.Clearnet SA’s own account, hedging transactions including, without
limitation, the purchase, exercise, sale or grant of Cleared Transactions;

(x)

compress and/or liquidate, in respect of each Client Trade Account, any Non-Ported
Cleared Transactions, and in respect of the House Trade Account, House Cleared
Transactions of the Defaulting Clearing Member (and any hedging transactions executed
in accordance with Article 4.3.2.3(ix), in consultation with the CDS Default Management
Group and in accordance with Regulation 4 of the FCM CDS Clearing Regulations (in the
case of an FCM Clearing Member) and the CDS Default Management Process;

(xi)

obtain any advice, information or assistance from the Defaulting Clearing Member and/or
any third party, as LCH.Clearnet SA may deem necessary for any matter arising out of or
in connection with an Event of Default and at the expense of the Defaulting Clearing
Member;

(xii)

liquidate the Collateral posted by the Defaulting Clearing Member in its House Collateral
Account and in respect of any Non-Ported Cleared Transactions, to ensure the
performance by the Defaulting Clearing Member of its obligations under the CDS Clearing
Documentation;

(xiii)

liquidate the Collateral posted by the Defaulting Clearing Member that is a CCM in respect
of any CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Structure for which all of the Relevant
Client Cleared Transactions are not transferred to a single Backup Clearing Member in
accordance with the CDS Client Clearing Default Management Process;

(xiv)

liquidate the Available Client Collateral Buffer posted by the Defaulting Clearing Member, if
any;

(xv)

liquidate the Collateral posted by the Defaulting Clearing Member that is an FCM Clearing
Member in respect of its provision of the CDS Clearing Service to its FCM Clients in
accordance with the FCM CDS Clearing Regulations to ensure the performance by the
Defaulting Clearing Member of its obligations under the CDS Clearing Documentation;

(xvi)

act in lieu of the Defaulting Clearing Member for performing its payment and/or delivery
obligations under Cleared Transactions;

(xvii)

impose upon the Defaulting Clearing Member a penalty for late delivery or payment, in the
circumstances and at a rate set out by LCH.Clearnet SA;

(xviii)

claim from the Defaulting Clearing Member Damages incurred in relation to the occurrence
of an Event of Default or the processing of the Event of Default in accordance with this
Article 4.3.2.3 or the CDS Default Management Process; and/or

(xix)

enforce the security interest granted to LCH.Clearnet SA under, and in accordance with,
the Pledge Agreement and/or, in the case of an FCM Clearing Member, Regulation 5 of
the FCM CDS Clearing Regulations.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, where an Automatic Early Termination Event Stipulation has been
made by LCH.Clearnet SA in respect of a Clearing Member, the Defaulting Clearing Member
Termination Date shall arise immediately prior to the Insolvency Proceedings in respect of such
Clearing Member without the need for any other or prior notice.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

119

Published on 14 April 2016

Article 4.3.2.4
Following the declaration of an Event of Default or the making of an Automatic Early Termination
Event Stipulation and the issuance of a Default Notice, LCH.Clearnet SA shall return to the
Defaulting Clearing Member, as applicable:
(i)

in the case of a CCM, any Collateral recorded as CCM Unallocated Client Collateral for
the account of its Clients; or

(ii)

in the case of an FCM Clearing Member, any FCM Unallocated Client Excess Collateral.

Article 4.3.2.5
Other than in the circumstance set out in Article 4.3.2.6, LCH.Clearnet SA shall not enforce the
security interest granted to it under, and in accordance with, the Pledge Agreement by
appropriation of the Defaulting Clearing Member’s Pledged Eligible Collateral until such time as
LCH.Clearnet SA has published a Clearing Notice, in accordance with Article 1.2.2.8, giving effect
to the relevant provisions of the Pledge Agreement regarding enforcement through appropriation.
For the avoidance of doubt, any proposed modification to the CDS Clearing Documentation
proposed by LCH.Clearnet SA, in connection with the issuance of a Clearing Notice contemplated
by this Article 4.3.2.5, shall be made in accordance with Section 1.2.2.
Article 4.3.2.6
If the Defaulting Clearing Member is a CCM and:
(i)

the Defaulting Clearing Member fails to transfer the Client Pledged Eligible Collateral to
LCH.Clearnet SA within such period as LCH.Clearnet SA has specified in its request
pursuant to Article 4.3.2.1(i); and

(ii)

it has been determined that some or all of the Client Pledged Eligible Collateral is to be
transferred to a Backup Clearing Member or, as the case may be, different Backup
Clearing Members in accordance with Clause 4.3 of the CDS Default Management
Process;

LCH.Clearnet SA shall enforce the security interest granted to it under, and in accordance with, the
Pledge Agreement by appropriation of the Defaulting Clearing Member’s Client Pledged Eligible
Collateral. Where only some of the Client Pledged Eligible Collateral is to be transferred to a
Backup Clearing Member in accordance with Clause 4.3 of the CDS Default Management
Process, LCH.Clearnet SA shall only appropriate the Client Pledged Eligible Collateral attributable
to the CCM Individual Segregated Account Client(s) and their CCM Indirect Clients (if applicable),
the CCM Net Omnibus Client Set(s) and/or the CCM Gross Omnibus Client Set(s) whose Relevant
Client Cleared Transactions are to be transferred to a Backup Clearing Member.
Article 4.3.2.7
Where LCH.Clearnet SA elects to enforce the security interest granted to it under, and in
accordance with, the Pledge Agreement, and/or in the case of an FCM Clearing Member in
accordance with Regulation 5 of the FCM CDS Clearing Regulations LCH.Clearnet SA shall use
all reasonable endeavours, taking into account prevailing market conditions, to realise the value of
the Defaulting Clearing Member’s Collateral as soon as is reasonably practicable and prior,
wherever possible, to the commencement of Competitive Bidding pursuant to the CDS Default
Management Process.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

120

Published on 14 April 2016

Article 4.3.2.8
Measures taken by LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to Article 4.3.2.3 or the CDS Default Management
Process following the declaration of an Event of Default and issuance of a Default Notice by
LCH.Clearnet SA shall be notified by LCH.Clearnet SA to the Defaulting Clearing Member and as
LCH.Clearnet SA may deem necessary to any appropriate third parties.

Section 4.3.3 Recourse following an Event of Default
Article 4.3.3.1
Any Damage incurred by LCH.Clearnet SA following, and in relation to, the declaration of an Event
of Default shall be reduced or covered in descending priority:
(i)

by applying:
(a)

in respect of the House Margin Account of the Defaulting Clearing Member:
(x)

any Collateral recorded in the House Collateral Account;

(y)

regarding CCMs, any Collateral recorded in the Buffer Collateral Account
which is equal to the Available Client Collateral Buffer; and

(z)

any collateral, transferred or granted by the Defaulting Clearing Member to
LCH.Clearnet SA as margin cover in respect of a proprietary account, in
connection with another clearing service(s) provided by LCH.Clearnet SA
where LCH.Clearnet SA has declared the Defaulting Clearing Member to
be in default and to the extent such collateral is not applied in the context
of such other clearing service(s) in accordance with rules applicable to
such other clearing service(s),

to reduce or cover any Damage attributable to the liquidation of the House Cleared
Transactions;
(b)

in respect of any Client Margin Account comprising Non-Ported Cleared
Transactions of the Defaulting Clearing Member:
(x)

(I) in the case of a CCM, any Collateral recorded in the relevant CCM
Client Collateral Account and, in the case of a CCM Client Margin Account
of a CCM Gross Omnibus Sub-Account Structure, in an amount equivalent
to the CCM Gross Omnibus Sub-Account Balance attributable to that CCM
Client Margin Account; or (II) in the case of an FCM Clearing Member, the
Legally Segregated Value recorded in the relevant FCM Client Financial
Account;

(y)

to the extent such Client Margin Account is a CCM Individual Segregated
Client Margin Account, any collateral, transferred or granted by the
Defaulting Clearing Member to LCH.Clearnet SA as margin cover in
respect of a client account held for the benefit of the same CCM Individual
Segregated Account Client, in connection with another clearing service(s)
provided by LCH.Clearnet SA (to the extent such collateral is not applied
in the context of such other clearing service(s) in accordance with the
rules applicable to such other clearing service(s)); and

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

121

Published on 14 April 2016

(z)

any House Excess Collateral remaining following the application of Article
4.3.3.1(i)(a) and in the case of an FCM Clearing Member, any FCM
Allocated Client Collateral Buffer (but in no event any FCM Unallocated
Client Excess Collateral),

to reduce or cover any Damage attributable to the liquidation of the relevant Non-Ported
Cleared Transactions;
(ii)

by applying :
(a)

any Collateral transferred or granted to LCH.Clearnet SA by the Defaulting
Clearing Member as a Contribution or Additional Contribution Amount; and

(b)

any collateral transferred or granted by the Defaulting Clearing Member to
LCH.Clearnet SA as a contribution to the default fund, in connection with another
clearing service(s) provided by LCH.Clearnet SA (to the extent such collateral is
not applied in the context of such other clearing service(s) in accordance with the
rules applicable to such other clearing service(s)):

(iii)

by applying the LCH.Clearnet SA Contribution;

(iv)

by applying a percentage of the Collateral deposited by each Non Bidder as a Contribution
equal to its Total Non Bidder Fraction pro rata each such Non Bidder's proportion of the
resources available under this sub-paragraph (iv);

(v)

by applying pro rata:
(a)

the Collateral deposited by each Non Bidder as a Contribution to the extent this
has not been applied in accordance with sub-paragraph (iv) above; and

(b)

any Collateral deposited by each other Clearing Member (other than Non Bidders)
as a Contribution;

(vi)

by applying pro rata the Collateral deposited by each other Clearing Member as an
Additional Contribution Amount (to the extent called, including where called from another
Defaulting Clearing Member); and

(vii)

by following the Loss Distribution Process.

Where a Defaulting Clearing Member is a member of another clearing service(s) provided by
LCH.Clearnet SA (such other service(s), together with the CDS Clearing Service, the “LCH
Businesses”), the completion of the default management processes in respect of the LCH
Businesses may occur at different times. LCH.Clearnet SA may be required to take action,
including applying resources to reduce or cover Damage incurred by LCH.Clearnet SA in
accordance with this Article 4.3.3.1, in order to manage the Event of Default at a time when: (x) the
action which is taken is contingent on an outcome of the default management process in respect
of another clearing service(s) provided by LCH.Clearnet SA, and (y) that outcome has not yet
been reached.
In the interests of efficient resolution, LCH.Clearnet SA may, at such point, make assumptions
about that outcome, and proceed with the relevant action on that basis. Where any such
assumptions have been made, LCH.Clearnet SA shall, on the completion of the default
management processes in respect of all LCH Businesses, make such credits to the default funds
relating to the LCH Businesses and such distributions to former Clearing Members as may be
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

122

Published on 14 April 2016

necessary to put the default funds and those firms which had contributed to such default funds at
the time of the relevant default in the position that they would have been in if the correct outcomes
had been used and the relevant assumptions had not been made.
In this Article 4.3.3.1, "applying" shall mean the use, by LCH.Clearnet SA, of the listed resources
and the corresponding discharge of its obligations to return an equivalent amount of such
resources to the Defaulting Clearing Member and/or Non-Defaulting Clearing Members (as
applicable) in accordance with the CDS Clearing Documentation, whether such discharge is
through the operation of set-off against LCH.Clearnet SA's rights against the Defaulting Clearing
Member pursuant to ‎Article 4.3.3.4, its rights pursuant to Article 4.4.3.2, or otherwise as set out in
this CDS Clearing Documentation. In respect of sub-paragraph (iii), an application of the
LCH.Clearnet SA Contribution means an amount that LCH.Clearnet SA shall bear for its own
account up to the amount of the LCH.Clearnet SA Contribution.
For the avoidance of doubt, any Damage incurred by LCH.Clearnet SA following, and in relation to,
the declaration of an Event of Default shall not be reduced or covered by the CDS Client Clearing
Entitlement as determined in accordance with Clause 4.4.3 of the CDS Default Management
Process.
Article 4.3.3.2
In relation to Article 4.3.3.1, where an Event of Default is declared in respect of a Clearing
Member, (i) in the case of a CCM, any Collateral recorded in the relevant CCM Client Collateral
Account and, in the case of a CCM Client Margin Account of a CCM Gross Omnibus Sub-Account
Structure, in an amount equivalent to the CCM Gross Omnibus Sub-Account Balance attributable
to that CCM Client Margin Account; or (ii) in the case of an FCM Clearing Member, the Legally
Segregated Value recorded in the relevant FCM Client Financial Account ,shall only be applied to
cover Damage incurred by LCH.Clearnet SA attributable to the hedging or liquidation of the
relevant Non-Ported Cleared Transactions and in the case of an FCM Clearing Member, in
accordance with Regulation 6 of the FCM CDS Clearing Regulations.
Article 4.3.3.3
A Defaulting Clearing Member shall be liable for all Damage incurred by LCH.Clearnet SA,
including any amounts payable by LCH.Clearnet SA in respect of the liquidation or hedging of its:
(i)

House Cleared Transactions; and/or

(ii)

Non-Ported Cleared Transactions;

which arise out of or in connection with an Event of Default or where an Automatic Early
Termination Event Stipulation has been made by LCH.Clearnet SA, as applicable. The Defaulting
Clearing Member shall immediately, and in any event no later than the close of business on the
Business Day following demand by LCH.Clearnet SA, make up any shortfall in its Contribution
arising from the Event of Default. Any positive values arising from the liquidation of the Defaulting
Clearing Member’s House Cleared Transactions shall be for the account of the Defaulting Clearing
Member and any positive values arising from the liquidation of the Defaulting Clearing Member’s
Non-Ported Cleared Transactions shall form part of the CDS Client Clearing Entitlement (subject to
the determination of amounts due from the Defaulting Clearing Member to LCH.Clearnet SA
pursuant to Article 4.3.3.4).

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

123

Published on 14 April 2016

Article 4.3.3.4
Following: (a) porting of Relevant Client Cleared Transactions and any Ported Collateral; and (b)
liquidation of all of: (i) the House Cleared Transactions of the Defaulting Clearing Member, and (ii)
Non-Ported Cleared Transactions in accordance with the CDS Default Management Process,
LCH.Clearnet SA shall determine whether any amount is due to or from the Defaulting Clearing
Member, taking into account:
(i)

all costs and expenses for which the Defaulting Clearing Member is liable pursuant to the
CDS Clearing Documentation;

(ii)

any liability that LCH.Clearnet SA has to make payments to a Matched Seller (where the
Defaulting Clearing Member was a corresponding Matched Buyer in respect of Physical
Settlement of Cleared Transactions) in respect of any claim under Sections 9.2(a), (b),
(c)(i) or (c)(iv) of the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions, or Sections 11.2(a), (b),
(c)(i) or (c)(iv) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions as applicable, in accordance
with Section 6.18 of Part A, or Section 6.19 of Part B as applicable, of the CDS Clearing
Supplement;

(iii)

any liability that LCH.Clearnet SA has to make payments to the Defaulting Clearing
Member as a Matched Seller in respect of any claim by the Defaulting Clearing Member
under Sections 9.2(a), (b), (c)(i) or (c)(iv) of the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions,
or Sections 11.2(a), (b), (c)(i) or (c)(iv) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions as
applicable, in accordance with Section 6.18 of Part A, or Section 6.19 of Part B as
applicable, of the CDS Clearing Supplement; and

(iv)

the right of the Defaulting Clearing Member to a return or repayment of any Collateral
and/or any other sums due to it pursuant to this CDS Clearing Rule Book and the CDS
Clearing Documentation (including return to an FCM Clearing Member of any FCM
Unallocated Client Excess Collateral or FCM Available Client Collateral Buffer).

This calculation will be undertaken separately in respect of the Defaulting Clearing Member's
House Trade Account and each of its Client Trade Accounts and LCH.Clearnet SA shall notify the
Defaulting Clearing Member of the amount(s) which LCH.Clearnet SA owes to the Defaulting
Clearing Member or the amount(s) that the Defaulting Clearing Member owes to LCH.Clearnet SA,
as the case may be. For the avoidance of doubt, where an amount is payable by LCH.Clearnet SA
to the Defaulting Clearing Member in respect of its House Trade Account, the balance of the
House Collateral Account shall not be applied to meet the shortfall(s) in the relevant Client
Collateral Account(s), if any.
Any payments shall be due and payable on the Defaulting Clearing Member Termination Date.
In the event that LCH.Clearnet SA retains amounts to cover any liability arising in connection with
Section 6.18 of Part A, or Section 6.19 of Part B as applicable, of the CDS Clearing Supplement, in
accordance with sub-paragraph (ii) above, LCH.Clearnet SA shall notify the corresponding
Matched Seller and shall pay such amounts to the Matched Seller as soon as possible following
the Defaulting Clearing Member Termination Date.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

124

Published on 14 April 2016

Article 4.3.3.5
To the extent that:
(i)

the porting of the Relevant Client Cleared Transactions of the Defaulting Clearing Member,
pursuant to the CDS Default Management Process;

(ii)

liquidation of the Defaulting Clearing Member’s House Cleared Transactions, pursuant to
the CDS Default Management Process; or

(iii)

liquidation of the Non-Ported Cleared Transactions, pursuant to the CDS Default
Management Process;

requires new Cleared Transactions to be created in the TIW reflecting another Clearing Member
as counterparty to the Cleared Transaction, LCH.Clearnet SA will have to submit these Cleared
Transactions to DTCC in accordance with Article 3.1.10.2 (or Article 3.1.10.3, as the case may be),
provided that LCH.Clearnet SA will submit any reports required under Part 45 of the CFTC
Regulations in accordance with Section 5 of the Procedures.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

125

Published on 14 April 2016

CHAPTER 4 - CDS DEFAULT FUND

Section 4.4.1 Purpose of the CDS Default Fund and Relevant Calculations
Article 4.4.1.1
The CDS Default Fund is established for the CDS Clearing Service only and is a default fund
solely for Cleared Transactions and separate from the default fund(s) for LCH.Clearnet SA’s other
clearing services. Contributions shall only be applied by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with
Article 4.3.3.1 following its determination of an Event of Default with respect to a Clearing Member
pursuant to Article 4.3.1.2 or the making of an Automatic Early Termination Event Stipulation and
where the resources listed in Article 4.3.3.1 (i) and (ii) are insufficient to cover the losses incurred
by LCH.Clearnet SA as a result of such Event of Default.
To the extent a Defaulting Clearing Member is a member of another clearing service(s) provided
by LCH.Clearnet SA, the Contribution and the Additional Contribution Amount of such Defaulting
Clearing Member may additionally be used in accordance with the rules applicable to such other
clearing service(s), provided, and only to the extent, that the Defaulting Clearing Member’s
Contribution and its Additional Contribution Amount have not been exhausted through the
application of resources pursuant to Article 4.3.3.1(ii)(a).
Where the balance of a Defaulting Clearing Member’s Contribution and/or its Additional
Contribution Amount is used, in accordance with the rules applicable to another clearing service(s)
provided by LCH.Clearnet SA, such use shall give rise to a corresponding discharge of
LCH.Clearnet SA’s obligations (whether through the operation of set off pursuant to Article 4.3.3.4
or otherwise pursuant to the CDS Clearing Documentation) to return an equivalent amount of such
resources to the Defaulting Clearing Member in accordance with the CDS Clearing Documentation
Article 4.4.1.2
The funded portion of the CDS Default Fund shall be equal to the sum of the theoretical losses
caused by an Event of Default occurring in respect of the Clearing Members that are responsible
for the two highest daily Member Uncovered Risks over the last sixty Clearing Days plus a buffer
equal to 10 percent (i.e. the Combined Unmargined Risk), calculated in accordance with Section 6
of the Procedures or such other methodology as may be determined by LCH.Clearnet SA after
consultation with the Risk Committee.
Notwithstanding the above, the funded portion of the CDS Default Fund may be capped at a
specific amount, as set out in Section 6 of the Procedures, and shall not be less than the floor
amount established in Section 6 of the Procedures. The method for calculating the Combined
Unmargined Risk is set forth in Section 6 of the Procedures.
Article 4.4.1.3
Subject to Section 6 of the Procedures, a Clearing Member’s Contribution shall be equal to the
greater of:
(i)

such Clearing Member's proportionate share of the CDS Default Fund Amount, each
Clearing Member’s proportionate share being based on its Margin Requirements over the
last sixty Clearing Days; and

(ii)

a minimum contribution of EUR10,000,000.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

126

Published on 14 April 2016

Further detail regarding the method for calculating each Clearing Member’s Contribution is set out
in Section 6 of the Procedures.
For each Clearing Member where the initial calculation of its Contribution yields an amount greater
than the minimum contribution amount set out in sub-paragraph (ii) above, LCH.Clearnet SA shall
recalculate the Contribution Requirement of such Clearing Member such that each Clearing
Member’s Contribution Requirement is a proportionate share of the CDS Default Fund Calculation
Amount.
Article 4.4.1.4
Each Clearing Member has an unconditional obligation during any CDS Post-Default Period to pay
a single Additional Contribution Amount to the CDS Default Fund if required to do so by
LCH.Clearnet SA, calculated as of the date LCH.Clearnet SA makes a call on the CDS Default
Fund in accordance with Section 6 of the Procedures. Each Clearing Member will pay such
Additional Contribution Amount by such time specified in Section 6 of the Procedures. The
Additional Contribution Amount may be called by LCH.Clearnet SA during any CDS Post-Default
Period in one or more drawdowns, subject that the aggregate amount paid by a Clearing Member
shall not exceed that Clearing Member’s Additional Contribution Amount during such CDS PostDefault Period.
Article 4.4.1.5
LCH.Clearnet SA shall calculate the CDS Default Fund Amount and each Clearing Member’s
Contribution Requirement on:
(i)

the fourth Business Day of each month; and

(ii)

any Business Day should the largest two losses on that day described in Article 4.4.1.2
above change by more than 5% from the calculation date,

in each case other than during a CDS Post-Default Period.
Article 4.4.1.6
LCH.Clearnet SA shall also recalculate the CDS Default Fund Amount and each Clearing
Member’s Contribution Requirement on the first Business Day following either:
(i)

the final calendar day of a CDS Post-Default Period; or

(ii)

a Clearing Member Termination Date which is other than in a CDS Post-Default Period.

Article 4.4.1.7
Following any recalculation of the CDS Default Fund Amount, LCH.Clearnet SA shall, within one
Business Day, provide a notice to each Clearing Member detailing its revised Contribution
Requirement. The notice shall specify the amount of any Contribution Shortfall or any Contribution
Excess that is to be returned. Where there is a Contribution Shortfall, a Clearing Member shall
transfer to LCH.Clearnet SA additional Cash Collateral within two Business Days after delivery of
such notice so that the Contribution Balance has a value at least equal to the revised Contribution
Requirement. Where there is a Contribution Excess, the Clearing Member may request that a
return of Cash Collateral be made by LCH.Clearnet SA, in which case LCH.Clearnet SA shall
return such Cash Collateral according to the conditions and timetable set forth in Section 6 of the
Procedures.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

127

Published on 14 April 2016

Article 4.4.1.8
If a Clearing Member is subject to a material change in its business such that the Clearing
Member’s Member Uncovered Risk is increased by 10% or more in accordance with Section 4.2.1
LCH.Clearnet SA may recalculate the Contribution Requirement of such Clearing Member. In such
circumstances, LCH.Clearnet SA may calculate the CDS Default Fund Amount and that Clearing
Member’s Contribution Requirement on the day such Clearing Member’s Member Uncovered Risk
is increased and, if the Clearing Member’s Contribution Requirement has increased since the last
calculation performed by LCH.Clearnet SA, LCH.Clearnet SA may notify such Clearing Member of
its increased Contribution Requirement, and the Clearing Member shall transfer to LCH.Clearnet
SA additional Collateral within two Business Days after delivery of such notice so that the
Contribution Requirement is at least met.
Nothing in the foregoing shall permit LCH.Clearnet SA to increase the Contribution Requirement of
a Clearing Member whose Margin Requirement has not increased (or whose Margin Requirement
has been increased solely as a result of a Credit Quality Margin being called pursuant to Article
4.2.1.2 other than pursuant to Article 4.4.1.3 to Article 4.4.1.7).
Article 4.4.1.9
If, during a CDS Post-Default Period, LCH.Clearnet SA determines that an increased Contribution
Requirement is required pursuant to Article 4.4.1.8, the Clearing Member may elect to treat
LCH.Clearnet SA’s notification of an increased Contribution Requirement and Contribution
Shortfall as notice of an increased House Margin Requirement and a House Margin Shortfall. In
such case, the Clearing Member shall transfer to LCH.Clearnet SA Collateral equal to the value of
the House Margin Shortfall for the remainder of the CDS Post-Default Period, subject that, on the
first Business Day following the end of the CDS Post-Default Period, such Collateral shall be
separately recorded as having been transferred to LCH.Clearnet SA to satisfy its increased
Contribution Requirement.
For the avoidance of doubt:
(i)

if the Clearing Member elects to transfer Collateral equal to the value of the Margin
Shortfall, such Collateral shall only be available to cover losses incurred by LCH.Clearnet
SA, as provided in the CDS Clearing Rules, following the occurrence of an Event of
Default in respect of such Clearing Member and there shall be no effect on such Clearing
Member’s Contribution during the CDS Post-Default Period; and

(ii)

the Clearing Member’s Contribution Requirement shall be recalculated on the first
Business Day following the final calendar day of the CDS Post-Default Period, as
described in Article 4.4.1.6.

Article 4.4.1.10
Following delivery of a notice by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Article 4.4.1.7 or Article
4.4.1.8, the Additional Contribution Amount shall be revised to be an unfunded amount equal to the
amount of such Clearing Member’s increased Contribution Requirement, regardless of whether
such Clearing Member has elected to transfer to LCH.Clearnet SA Collateral equal to the value of
the Margin Shortfall until the end of the CDS Post-Default Period, pursuant to Article 4.4.1.8.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

128

Published on 14 April 2016

Article 4.4.1.11
In the event that the board of directors of LCH.Clearnet SA makes one or more changes to the
methodology for calculating the CDS Default Fund that collectively result in the CDS Default Fund
Amount increasing by 20% or more in a period of not more than 30 calendar days, such changes
to the methodology shall collectively be effective on the earlier of:
(i)

the 20th Business Day following the date LCH.Clearnet SA delivers notice of such
changes to the Clearing Members; and

(ii)

if such changes are due to Applicable Law and a shorter period is necessary to comply
with such Applicable Law, the date reasonably determined by LCH.Clearnet SA in
consultation with the Risk Committee (which shall be no less than two Clearing Days
following delivery of notice of such changes to the Clearing Members).

Clearing Members shall transfer to LCH.Clearnet SA any Collateral equal to the value of the
Contribution Shortfall on or prior to the date such changes are effective.
Article 4.4.1.12
Upon receipt of notice, pursuant to Article 4.4.1.11, a Clearing Member may deliver a Membership
Termination Notice to LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Article 2.4.2.2(ii).
In the event such Membership Termination Notice is delivered to LCH.Clearnet SA prior to the
effectiveness of the changes to the methodology for calculating the CDS Default Fund, as
determined in accordance with Article 4.4.1.11, the Clearing Member’s Contribution Requirement
shall remain at the level determined prior to when the changes to the methodology were made for
the duration of the Membership Termination Notice Period. If, however, the Clearing Member
Termination Date does not arise within 25 Business Days following the date on which such
Clearing Member delivered its Membership Termination Notice or the Membership Termination
Notice is withdrawn pursuant to Article 2.4.2.5, then such Clearing Member will be required to
satisfy its Contribution Requirement in full, calculated based on the then-current methodology.
Article 4.4.1.13
For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in Article 4.4.1.11 or Article 4.4.1.12 shall apply to any
increase to the CDS Default Fund resulting from periodic calculations of the CDS Default Fund,
pursuant to Article 4.4.1.5 or Article 4.4.1.6, or any increase in a Clearing Member's Contribution
pursuant to Article 4.4.1.7 or Article 4.4.1.8, or increase in a Clearing Member’s Additional
Contribution Amount, pursuant to Article 4.4.1.9.

Section 4.4.2 Contribution to the CDS Default Fund
Article 4.4.2.1
A Clearing Member is obliged to make its Contribution by transferring Cash Collateral to
LCH.Clearnet SA. A Clearing Member must make its Contribution in accordance with Section 6 of
the Procedures.
Article 4.4.2.2
A Clearing Member's initial Contribution to the CDS Default Fund shall be made on the later of:
(i)

the Business Day on or immediately following the calendar day on which the CDS
Admission Agreement is executed by LCH.Clearnet SA and the Clearing Member; and

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

129

Published on 14 April 2016

(ii)

the Business Day preceding the day of the submission by a Clearing Member of its first
Original Transaction.

Article 4.4.2.3
The list of Eligible Currencies is set out in Section 6 of the Procedures. LCH.Clearnet SA may
notify Clearing Members of any change to what constitutes Eligible Currencies by publication of a
Clearing Notice.
Article 4.4.2.4
On the specific written request of a Clearing Member, LCH.Clearnet SA shall ensure that the Risk
Committee is consulted on the acceptance of any type of currency as Eligible Collateral where
Applicable Law permits a clearing house to accept such currency. If Applicable Law no longer
permits any currency, to be accepted by a clearing house, LCH.Clearnet SA shall amend the list of
Eligible Currencies in accordance with Article 1.2.2.4(ii)(a).
The Collateral transferred to LCH.Clearnet SA for the purposes of a Clearing Member’s
Contribution Requirement shall be held by LCH.Clearnet SA and segregated from any Collateral
recorded in a Collateral Account of such Clearing Member.

Section 4.4.3 Application of the CDS Default Fund, Replenishment and
Multiple Defaults
Article 4.4.3.1
Clearing Members’ Contributions may be applied by LCH.Clearnet SA, pursuant to Article 4.3.3.1
and Article 4.3.3.2, in order to mitigate any Damage to LCH.Clearnet SA arising out of or in
connection with an Event of Default. If LCH.Clearnet SA declares an Event of Default in respect of
more than one Clearing Member simultaneously or in close sequence, LCH.Clearnet SA may, if it
so chooses, manage each Event of Default separately under TITLE IV, CHAPTER 3 and TITLE IV,
CHAPTER 4 to the extent permitted under Applicable Law.
Article 4.4.3.2
In the event the CDS Default Fund is applied by LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to Article 4.3.3.1, each
Clearing Member's Contribution or Additional Contribution Amount, as applicable, shall be applied
in the order set out in Article 4.3.3.1, and in respect of each sub-paragraph, as set out in the
relevant sub-paragraph of ‎Article 4.3.3.1, on a pro rata basis by reference to the ratio such
Clearing Member's Contribution bears to the aggregate CDS Default Fund.
Where LCH.Clearnet SA does so apply a Clearing Member's Contribution or Additional
Contribution Amount pursuant to sub-paragraphs (ii), (iv), (v) or (vi) of Article 4.3.3.1, its obligation
to redeliver any Collateral reflecting such Clearing Member's Contribution or Additional
Contribution Amount shall be reduced on the value of the amount so applied and such action will
constitute a full and final discharge of LCH.Clearnet SA's obligation to return the relevant amount
of such Collateral.
Article 4.4.3.3
Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default with respect to a Clearing Member, a CDS PostDefault Period shall commence and shall last for the period from and including the issuance of the
Default Notice to and including the day 25 Business Days thereafter. If any Default Notice is issued
by LCH.Clearnet SA at any point during a CDS Post-Default Period, the end of the relevant CDS
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

130

Published on 14 April 2016

Post-Default Period shall be extended to the 25th Business Day following the issuance of the last
Default Notice issued during such period (as may be extended pursuant to this Article 4.4.3.3).
Article 4.4.3.4
During a CDS Post-Default Period, regardless of the number of Default Notices that are issued by
LCH.Clearnet SA, LCH.Clearnet SA shall not be permitted to require a Clearing Member to
transfer Collateral to LCH.Clearnet SA to meet any Contribution Requirement (including, for the
avoidance of doubt, owing to any recalculation of the size of the CDS Default Fund or the Clearing
Member’s proportionate share of the CDS Default Fund or a replenishment of the Clearing
Member’s Contribution) other than to the extent that such Clearing Member is requested to pay its
Additional Contribution Amount, calculated in accordance with Article 4.4.1.4, subject to
amendments pursuant to Article 4.4.1.9, as the case may be.
Article 4.4.3.5
Following the expiration of a CDS Post-Default Period, LCH.Clearnet SA shall notify each Clearing
Member of the amount of its Contribution and Additional Contribution Amount, as may be revised
pursuant to Article 4.4.1.5. Prior to the expiration of a CDS Post-Default Period, and where the
resources referred to in Article 4.3.3.1 (vi) have been applied to reduce the Damage referred to in
Article 4.3.3.1, LCH.Clearnet SA may agree with some or all Clearing Members that such Clearing
Members shall contribute additional funds to the CDS Default Fund prior to the expiration of the
CDS Post-Default Period.
For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this Article 4.4.3.5 shall oblige a Clearing Member to
contribute additional funds prior to the expiration of the CDS Post-Default Period.
Article 4.4.3.6
The LCH.Clearnet SA Contribution shall be deposited with an EEA Credit Institution or the Banque
de France and shall only be applied pursuant to the waterfall process as described in the CDS
Clearing Documentation. In the event it becomes necessary to apply all or part of the
LCH.Clearnet SA Contribution pursuant to Article 4.3.3.1 (iii) LCH.Clearnet SA shall be required to
restore its LCH.Clearnet SA Contribution to an amount of Euro 20 million within one Business Day
following the final calendar day of the expiration of the related CDS Post-Default Period.
The LCH.Clearnet SA Contribution shall be limited to an aggregate maximum of Euro 20 million
during a CDS Post-Default Period regardless of the number of Default Notices that are issued
during such CDS Post-Default Period.
Article 4.4.3.7
LCH.Clearnet SA will promptly report to each Clearing Member, and account for, any withdrawals
made from the CDS Default Fund.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

131

Published on 14 April 2016

Article 4.4.3.8
If the CDS Default Fund has been applied by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Article 4.3.3.1,
LCH.Clearnet SA shall reimburse the Clearing Members (irrespective of whether they remain
Clearing Members at the time of the recovery) and LCH.Clearnet SA in reverse order of the
resources listed at Article 4.3.3.1 as applied and, in relation to the Contributions and/or Additional
Contribution Amounts of Clearing Members in proportion to each Clearing Member's Contribution
and/or Additional Contribution Amount so applied, in respect of:
(i)

any amounts received from the Defaulting Clearing Member as a result of LCH.Clearnet
SA being a creditor of the Defaulting Clearing Member in the context of Insolvency
Proceedings or otherwise, other than in respect of sums due to LCH.Clearnet SA; or

(ii)

any other amounts howsoever obtained or recovered in the course of LCH.Clearnet SA's
operation of the CDS Default Management Process or which are otherwise referable to the
Defaulting Clearing Member,

in each case net of any related expenses incurred by LCH.Clearnet SA or other sums owing to
LCH.Clearnet SA by the Defaulting Clearing Member in connection with the CDS Clearing Service.
For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this Article 4.4.3.8 shall oblige LCH.Clearnet SA to pursue
any litigation or other action in order to recover the amounts contemplated above and if another
default fund of LCH.Clearnet SA has also been applied as a result of the Defaulting Clearing
Member's default, any amounts recovered shall be applied pari passu as between the relevant
default funds.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

132

Published on 14 April 2016

TITLE V
CDS CCM CLIENT CLEARING SERVICES

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

133

Published on 14 April 2016

CHAPTER 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 5.1.1 Provision of CDS Client Clearing Services
Article 5.1.1.1
Any CCM may offer CDS Client Clearing Services to a CCM Client after obtaining confirmation
from LCH.Clearnet SA it has duly filed and submitted all the documentation and information
required pursuant to Section 1 of the Procedures. Pursuant to EMIR, an Affiliate of a CCM shall be
treated as a CCM Client.
Article 5.1.1.2
CDS Client Clearing Services may be provided by a CCM to its CCM Clients on whatever terms
the CCM decides should apply provided, however, that:
(i)

each CCM shall, before providing CDS Client Clearing Services to any client, ensure that it
has entered into a CDS Client Clearing Agreement pursuant to which the CCM Client
agrees, among others, to be bound by the Mandatory Client Clearing Provisions;

(ii)

Client Cleared Transactions, Collateral provided by a CCM to LCH.Clearnet SA in respect
of Client Cleared Transactions and CCM Client Excess Collateral if any, shall always be
separately identified by the CCM to LCH.Clearnet SA, in accordance with Section 3 of the
Procedures; and

(iii)

each CCM shall be obliged to provide LCH.Clearnet SA with any information that
LCH.Clearnet SA may reasonably require in relation to the CDS Client Clearing Services
provided by that CCM to its CCM Clients.

Article 5.1.1.3
The following provisions shall constitute the Mandatory Client Clearing Provisions:
(i)

the receipt of CDS Clearing Services from the CCM, which result in the registration of
Client Cleared Transactions within such CCM’s CCM Client Trade Account(s), will be
governed by the applicable provisions of the CDS Clearing Documentation and the CDS
Client Clearing Agreement;

(ii)

upon LCH.Clearnet SA’s registration of Client Cleared Transactions within the CCM Client
Account Structure of the relevant CCM (whether following a novation pursuant to Title III,
Chapter 1, transfer of Client Cleared Transactions pursuant to Title V, Chapter 3 or porting
of Relevant Client Cleared Transactions pursuant to the CDS Client Clearing DMP):
(a)

a client transaction having the same economic terms as the Client Cleared
Transaction will be deemed to arise under the CDS Client Clearing Agreement (a
“Deemed Client Transaction”) whereby: (x) if the CCM is a CDS Seller under a
Client Cleared Transaction, such CCM shall be a CDS buyer, and the CCM Client
shall be the CDS seller, under the Deemed Client Transaction; and (y) if the CCM
is a CDS Buyer under a Client Cleared Transaction, such CCM shall be the CDS
seller, and the CCM Client shall be the CDS buyer, under the Deemed Client
Transaction, and in each case such that the CCM Client will remain in the same
economic position as it had in relation to the original transaction that it entered
into; and

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

134

Published on 14 April 2016

(b)

(iii)

(iv)

where the Receiving Clearing Member receives Client Assets or the Backup
Clearing Member receives Ported Collateral in connection with the registration of
such Client Cleared Transaction, the CCM Client shall be deemed to have
provided equivalent collateral in relation to the corresponding Deemed Client
Transaction in such form as is agreed between the CCM and the CCM Client;

upon the transfer of a Client Cleared Transaction to a Receiving Clearing Member in
accordance with Title V, Chapter 3, the corresponding Deemed Client Transaction shall:
(a)

be terminated for zero value; and

(b)

in the event that Client Assets are transferred at or around the same time, in
accordance with the CDS Clearing Rules, to the Receiving Clearing Member, the
collateral relating to the terminated Deemed Client Transaction shall be deemed to
have been returned to the CCM Client;

upon the porting of a Relevant Client Cleared Transaction to a Backup Clearing Member in
accordance with the CDS Client Clearing DMP, the corresponding Deemed Client
Transaction shall:
(a)

be terminated at the same value as the value given to the Client Cleared
Transaction ported from the CCM Client Account Structure of the Defaulting
Clearing Member; and

(b)

in the event that Ported Collateral is transferred at or around the same time, in
accordance with the CDS Clearing Rules, to the Backup Clearing Member, the
collateral relating to the terminated Deemed Client Transaction shall be deemed to
have been returned to the CCM Client;

(v)

where a Client Cleared Transaction is liquidated in accordance with the CDS Client
Clearing DMP, the corresponding Deemed Client Transaction shall be simultaneously
terminated and valued using the methodology set out in the CDS Client Clearing DMP;

(vi)

the CCM Client irrevocably consents to the benefit of the Delegation by which, under the
CDS Admission Agreement, the CCM has delegated to LCH.Clearnet SA the obligation to
pay to the CCM Client an amount equal to the CDS Client Clearing Entitlement, calculated
in respect of each such CCM Client, if any. The Delegation is a délégation imparfaite
governed by articles 1275 et seq. of the French Civil Code and the CDS Clearing
Documentation. Accordingly, the CCM Client irrevocably acknowledges that, upon
LCH.Clearnet SA's payment to the CCM Client under the Delegation, the CCM is
discharged pro tanto from paying to the Client an amount equal to the CDS Client Clearing
Entitlement automatically without further notice;

(vii)

the Client undertakes to return to the CCM any amounts received from LCH.Clearnet SA
pursuant to the Delegation where such amounts exceed the amount which is due from the
CCM to the CCM Client in relation to the clearing of CDS through the CDS Clearing
Service in accordance with the CDS Client Clearing Agreement;

(viii)

following an LCH Default, each Deemed Client Transaction shall be valued using the
methodology set out in Articles 1.3.1.4 to 1.3.1.6 and closed out simultaneously with the
corresponding Client Cleared Transaction;

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

135

Published on 14 April 2016

(ix)

where compression of Client Cleared Transactions is undertaken by LCH.Clearnet SA in
accordance with Title III, Chapter 3, equivalent compression of the associated Deemed
Client Transactions will be undertaken by the CCM;

(x)

LCH.Clearnet SA is authorised to make disclosure of information in accordance with the
applicable provisions of the CDS Clearing Documentation;

(xi)

the CCM Client represents that it shall comply at all times with the CDS Clearing
Documentation as it applies to the CCM Client and shall not act so as to cause, whether
directly or indirectly, a breach of the CDS Clearing Documentation;

(xii)

save in the context of the Delegation and its right to receive an amount equal to the CDS
Client Clearing Entitlement, the CCM Client has no contractual nexus with LCH.Clearnet
SA and is not deemed to be party to, or participant in, the CDS Clearing Documentation;

(xiii)

LCH.Clearnet SA will:
(a)

rely on the latest documentation and information received by LCH.Clearnet SA
from the CCM, in accordance with ‎ Title 2, Chapter 2‎ and Section 1 of the
Procedures, for the purpose of the payment of the relevant CDS Client Clearing
Entitlement to the Client; and

(b)

have no liability provided it has relied on such latest documentation and
information;

(xiv)

where Collateral is transferred by the CCM in satisfaction of the applicable CCM Client
Margin Requirement, the CCM Client shall not be entitled to assert any claim to the
Collateral in circumstances where the assertion of such a claim would delay or inhibit the
disposal of such Collateral by LCH.Clearnet SA and/or the application of the proceeds of
sale of such Collateral in accordance with the provisions of the CDS Clearing
Documentation and Applicable Law;

(xv)

LCH.Clearnet SA deals only with the CCM and the CCM Client shall have no right or
authority to deal directly with LCH.Clearnet SA or to request any information from
LCH.Clearnet SA save as otherwise provided by the CDS Clearing Documentation or any
Applicable Law;

(xvi)

the Client shall answer, and authorises the CCM to answer, inquiries made by
LCH.Clearnet SA concerning the CDS Client Clearing Services pursuant to Articles L. 44010 and L. 511-33 of the French Monetary and Financial Code;

(xvii)

to the extent the Markit LCH Settlement Prices are provided to the CCM Client, the Client
shall:
(a)

use such Markit LCH Settlement Prices internally and solely in connection with its
clearing functions; and

(b)

only be permitted to provide the Markit LCH Settlement Prices to an affiliate or a
client of its own if: (1) it does so at no cost; (2) the Markit LCH Settlement Prices
are provided for the affiliate or client to use internally and solely in connection with
their respective clearing functions; and (3) the Markit LCH Settlement Prices are
identifiable as such;

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

136

Published on 14 April 2016

For the avoidance of doubt, “clearing functions” shall mean the validation of the CCM
Client's Margin Requirement (or any margin requirement applicable to the CCM Client’s
affiliate or client) and the calculation and valuation of the CCM Client's Open Positions (or
the net open positions of the CCM Client’s affiliate or client) for the purposes of its own
internal books and records;
(xviii)

the CCM Client agrees to indemnify and hold the CCM and/or LCH.Clearnet SA harmless
from and against any and all loss, liability, damage, cost, penalty, fine, tax or expense
(including, without limitation, reasonable attorney's fees, costs of collection, and any
reasonable cost incurred in successfully defending against any claim) incurred by the
CCM and/or LCH.Clearnet SA in connection with the indirect clearing arrangement
referred to in Article 5.1.3.1 below and/or in connection with the provisions of the CDS
Clearing Documentation applicable to indirect clearing and in particular Article 5.1.3.1,
Article 5.4.1.1, Article 5.4.1.2 and Article 5.4.1.3 below; and

(xix)

in respect of CCMs intending to allow their CCM Individual Segregated Account Clients to
provide indirect clearing services to their own clients in relation to the CDS Clearing
Service:
(a)

if the CCM Client intends to provide indirect clearing services to its own clients in
relation to the CDS Clearing Service, it shall, before providing such indirect
clearing services, ensure that the indirect clearing arrangement it intends to enter
into with its own clients (x) is legally enforceable; and (y) contains, among others,
the Mandatory Indirect Client Clearing Provisions set out in Article 5.1.3.2; and

(b)

where a CCM Client has CCM Indirect Clients, the CCM Client:
(x)

must promptly put into effect any requirement imposed upon it by
LCH.Clearnet SA or the CCM in relation to the indirect clearing
arrangements in place with the CCM Indirect Clients; and

(y)

must make all information reasonably requested by the CCM (as a result
of a request made by LCH.Clearnet SA to the CCM) available to the CCM
upon demand.

Section 5.1.2 CDS Client Clearing DMP and Delegation
Article 5.1.2.1
Clause 4 of the CDS Client Clearing DMP sets out the process for: (i) porting Relevant Client
Cleared Transactions and Ported Collateral; and/or (ii) liquidating Non-Ported Cleared
Transactions and calculating the CDS Client Clearing Entitlement for each Client, of a Defaulting
Clearing Member.
Article 5.1.2.2
Each CCM has irrevocably delegated LCH.Clearnet SA, in favour of each of its CCM Clients, in
the payment to each of its CCM Clients of an amount equal to the CDS Client Clearing Entitlement
calculated in respect of each of its CCM Clients, if any. The Delegation is a délégation imparfaite
governed by articles 1275 et seq. of the French Civil Code and the CDS Clearing Documentation.
Accordingly, the CCM irrevocably acknowledges that:
(i)

it has directed LCH.Clearnet SA to pay to each of its CCM Clients, an amount equal to the
relevant CDS Client Clearing Entitlement, if positive; and

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

137

Published on 14 April 2016

(ii)

upon LCH.Clearnet SA paying the amount due in accordance with the Delegation to each
CCM Client of the CCM, LCH.Clearnet SA shall irrevocably be discharged pro tanto from
paying an amount equal to the relevant CDS Client Clearing Entitlement to the CCM
automatically without further notice;

For the avoidance of doubt, this Delegation shall not restrict or otherwise prejudice the entitlement
of the CCM to any Collateral in relation to its CCM House Margin Account save as expressly
provided above.

Section 5.1.3 Indirect clearing
Article 5.1.3.1
A CCM which intends to allow its CCM Individual Segregated Account Clients to provide indirect
clearing services to their own clients in relation to the CDS Clearing Service shall first:
(i)

put in place appropriate procedures to ensure that the contractual terms of the indirect
clearing arrangement intended to be entered into with its CCM Individual Segregated
Account Clients which intend to provide indirect clearing services to its own clients (x) are
legally enforceable in the relevant jurisdictions, (y) comply with the requirements of EMIR
and (z) are consistent with the terms of the CDS Clearing Documentation; and

(ii)

request LCH. Clearnet SA (as set out in Section 1 of the Procedures) to open a single
CCM Indirect Client Segregated Account Structure in respect of all the CCM Indirect
Clients of any particular CCM Individual Segregated Account Client who intends to receive
indirect clearing services in respect of the CDS Clearing Service.

LCH.Clearnet shall not incur any liability in connection with any indirect clearing arrangement
entered into between a CCM Individual Segregated Account Client and a CCM Indirect Client.
Article 5.1.3.2
The following provisions shall constitute the Mandatory Indirect Client Clearing Provisions:
(i)

the CCM Indirect Client warrants that it understands, acknowledges and agrees to all
rights and obligations relevant to the provision of CDS Clearing Services with respect to
CCM Indirect Clients, under the CDS Clearing Rules;

(ii)

the CCM Indirect Client shall make all information reasonably requested by its CCM
Individual Segregated Account Client (as a result of a request made by LCH.Clearnet SA
to the CCM of such CCM Individual Segregated Account Client) available to its CCM
Individual Segregated Account Client upon demand;

(iii)

the CCM Indirect Client acknowledges that LCH.Clearnet SA is authorised to make
disclosure of information in accordance with the applicable provisions of the CDS Clearing
Documentation;

(iv)

the CCM Indirect Client represents that it shall comply at all times with the CDS Clearing
Documentation as it applies to the CCM Indirect Client and shall not act so as to cause,
whether directly or indirectly, a breach of the CDS Clearing Documentation;

(v)

the CCM Indirect Client has no contractual nexus with LCH.Clearnet SA and is not
deemed to be party to, or participant in, the CDS Clearing Documentation;

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

138

Published on 14 April 2016

(vi)

where Collateral is transferred by the CCM in satisfaction of the applicable CCM Client
Margin Requirement, the CCM Indirect Client shall not be entitled to assert any claim to
the Collateral in circumstances where the assertion of such a claim would delay or inhibit
the disposal of such Collateral by LCH.Clearnet SA and/or the application of the proceeds
of sale of such Collateral in accordance with the provisions of the CDS Clearing
Documentation and Applicable Law; and

(vii)

LCH.Clearnet SA deals only with the CCM and the CCM Indirect Client shall have no right
or authority to deal directly with LCH.Clearnet SA (and as a result LCH.Clearnet SA shall
not incur any liability whatsoever towards the CCM Indirect Client) or to request any
information from LCH.Clearnet SA save as otherwise expressly provided for by the CDS
Clearing Documentation or by any Applicable Law.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

139

Published on 14 April 2016

CHAPTER 2 - CCM CLIENT ACCOUNT STRUCTURE

Section 5.2.1 General Provisions
Article 5.2.1.1
A CCM is permitted to offer each of its clients the choice between the following categories of CCM
Client Account Structures:
(i)

a CCM Individual Segregated Account Structure;

(ii)

a CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account Structure; and

(iii)

a CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Structure.

For the avoidance of doubt, a single CCM Client is not permitted to be allocated, at the same time,
to (i) more than one CCM Client Account Structure of the same CCM and (ii) within a CCM Gross
Omnibus Segregated Account Structure, more than one CCM Gross Omnibus Sub-Account
Structure.
Article 5.2.1.2
A CCM may have as many CCM Client Account Structures as it requires.
Within a CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Structure, a CCM may have as many CCM
Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Structures and as many CCM Gross Omnibus Single SubAccount Structures as it requires.
Article 5.2.1.3
Each CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account Client must be allocated to one CCM Client Trade
Account, one CCM Client Margin Account and one CCM Client Collateral Account.
Each CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Client must be allocated to a CCM Gross
Omnibus Sub-Account Structure.
Each CCM Individual Segregated Account Client must be allocated to one CCM Direct Client
Segregated Account Structure and, if such CCM Individual Segregated Account Client provides
clearing services to CCM Indirect Clients, it must also be allocated to a CCM Indirect Client
Segregated Account Structure.
Article 5.2.1.4
Subject to Article 5.2.1.1 above, a CCM Client of a CCM may request to be allocated to:
(i)

another category of CCM Client Account Structure referred to in Article 5.2.1.1 above; or

(ii)

as the case may be, another CCM Gross Omnibus Sub-Account Structure,

of that CCM provided, however, that at the time of election, the relevant CCM is not a Defaulting
Clearing Member.
Article 5.2.1.5
Where such an election is made, the relevant CCM must notify LCH.Clearnet SA of such election
and LCH.Clearnet SA shall reflect it in its books and records as soon as reasonably practicable
following receipt of such notification.
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

140

Published on 14 April 2016

Section 5.2.2 CCM Client Trade Accounts
Article 5.2.2.1
LCH.Clearnet SA shall open one CCM Client Trade Account:
(i)

for each CCM Omnibus Segregated Account Client;

(ii)

in the CCM Direct Client Segregated Account Structure of each CCM Individual
Segregated Account Client; and

(iii)

in the CCM Indirect Client Segregated Account Structure of each CCM Individual
Segregated Account Client which provides clearing services to CCM Indirect Clients.

Article 5.2.2.2
Registration of CCM Cleared Transactions in a CCM Client Trade Account shall initially be made
by LCH.Clearnet SA on the basis of the Transaction Data with respect to the relevant Original
Transaction and amended to reflect any compression of CCM Cleared Transactions pursuant
TITLE III, Chapter 3.

Section 5.2.3 CCM Client Margin Accounts
Article 5.2.3.1
LCH.Clearnet SA shall open:
(i)

one CCM Individual Segregated Client Margin Account in the CCM Direct Client
Segregated Account Structure of each CCM Individual Segregated Account Client for the
purposes of risk calculation, as described in Title IV, to reflect the Open Positions
attributable to such CCM Individual Segregated Account Client;

(ii)

one CCM Indirect Client Segregated Margin Account in the CCM Indirect Client
Segregated Account Structure of each CCM Individual Segregated Account Client
providing clearing services to CCM Indirect Clients for the purposes of risk calculation, as
described in Title IV, to reflect the Open Positions attributable to such CCM Individual
Segregated Account Client in respect of its CCM Indirect Clients; and

(iii)

one CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Client Margin Account for each CCM Net Omnibus
Client Set for the purposes of risk calculation, as described in Title IV, to reflect the Open
Positions attributable to such CCM Net Omnibus Client Set.

(iv)

one CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Client Margin Account for each CCM Gross
Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Client Set for the purposes of risk calculation, as described in
Title IV, to reflect the Open Positions attributable to such CCM Gross Omnibus Multi SubAccount Client Set;

(v)

one CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client Margin Account for each CCM Gross
Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client for the purposes of risk calculation, as described in
Title IV, to reflect the Open Positions attributable to such CCM Gross Omnibus Single SubAccount Client.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

141

Published on 14 April 2016

Article 5.2.3.2
Client Cleared Transactions registered in a CCM Client Trade Account of a CCM will be allocated
to the corresponding CCM Client Margin Account of the CCM, for the purposes of determining the
Open Positions attributable to:
(i)

the CCM Individual Segregated Account Client;

(ii)

CCM Indirect Clients of a CCM Individual Segregated Account Client;

(iii)

the relevant CCM Net Omnibus Client Set; or

(iv)

within a CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Structure:
(a)

the CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client; or

(b)

the relevant CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Client Set,

as the case may be.
Article 5.2.3.3
Calculation of Open Positions attributable to a CCM Individual Segregated Account Client, its CCM
Indirect Clients, if applicable, a CCM Net Omnibus Client Set, a CCM Gross Omnibus Multi SubAccount Client Set and a CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client and their recording in
the relevant CCM Client Margin Account will be carried out by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with
the rules set out in Section 2 of the Procedures.

Section 5.2.4 CCM Client Collateral Accounts
Article 5.2.4.1
Cash Collateral provided by CCMs to satisfy its CCM Client Margin Requirements or to create
CCM Client Excess Collateral, will be provided by way of full title transfer and will be held by
LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Section 3 of the Procedures.
Article 5.2.4.2

.

At the option of each CCM, and in accordance with Section 3 of the Procedures, Eligible Collateral
may be transferred by the relevant CCM to LCH.Clearnet SA to satisfy its CCM Client Margin
Requirements or to create CCM Client Excess Collateral, either on a full title transfer basis
pursuant to Article L. 440-7 of the French Monetary and Financial Code, or by way of a Belgian law
security interest with no title transfer pursuant to the applicable provisions of Belgian law.
Article 5.2.4.3
LCH.Clearnet SA shall open one CCM Client Collateral Account:
(i)

in the CCM Direct Client Segregated Account Structure of each CCM Individual
Segregated Account Client for the purposes of identifying Collateral provided by the
relevant CCM for the benefit of such CCM Individual Segregated Account Client and CCM
Client Excess Collateral if any;

(ii)

in the CCM Indirect Client Segregated Account Structure of each CCM Individual
Segregated Account Client providing clearing services to CCM Indirect Clients for the
purposes of identifying Collateral provided by the relevant CCM for the benefit of such

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

142

Published on 14 April 2016

CCM Individual Segregated Account Client in respect of its CCM Indirect Clients, and
CCM Client Excess Collateral in respect of its CCM Indirect Clients, if any;
(iii)

for each CCM Net Omnibus Client Set for the purposes of identifying Collateral provided
by the relevant CCM for the benefit of such CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account
Clients and CCM Client Excess Collateral if any; and

(iv)

for each CCM Gross Omnibus Client Set for the purposes of identifying Collateral provided
by the relevant CCM for the benefit of such CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated Account
Clients and CCM Client Excess Collateral if any.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

143

Published on 14 April 2016

CHAPTER 3 - TRANSFER

Section 5.3.1 General
Article 5.3.1.1
Other than in the event that a CCM is a Defaulting Clearing Member, Client Cleared Transactions
shall not be transferred from one CCM to another Clearing Member except as provided in TITLE V,
CHAPTER 3 or CHAPTER 4 or as otherwise permitted by French law to LCH.Clearnet SA.
Article 5.3.1.2
Rights under a Client Cleared Transaction shall not be capable of assignment by a CCM. Any
purported assignment by a CCM or any purported transfer that is not in compliance this TITLE V,
CHAPTER 3 shall be void.

Section 5.3.2 Full transfers
Article 5.3.2.1
Upon the instruction of a CCM Individual Segregated Account Client, a Receiving Clearing
Member shall request LCH.Clearnet SA (as set out in Section 5 of the Procedures) to transfer:
(a)

the entire portfolio (and not less than an entire portfolio) of:
(x)

Client Cleared Transactions registered in the CCM Direct Client Segregated Account
Structure of that CCM Individual Segregated Account Client; and/or

(y)

Client Cleared Transactions registered in the CCM Indirect Client Segregated Account
Structure of that CCM Individual Segregated Account Client,

to the relevant CCM Client Trade Account(s) of the Receiving Clearing Member; and
(b)

if also requested by the Receiving Clearing Member, all Client Assets attributable to such
CCM Individual Segregated Account Client and all its CCM Indirect Clients (if applicable)
registered in the Carrying Clearing Member's relevant CCM Client Collateral Account(s) to
the Receiving Clearing Member's relevant CCM Client Collateral Account(s).

Subject to paragraph (vii) hereof, any Carrying Clearing Member expressly and irrevocably agrees
to such transfers and acknowledges that they may be implemented by LCH.Clearnet SA, in
accordance with the conditions set forth herein, without its involvement.
It is a condition precedent to any such transfer of Client Cleared Transactions and/or relevant
Client Assets (as the case may be) that:
(i)

such CCM Individual Segregated Account Client has not become insolvent (such CCM
Individual Segregated Account Client to be presumed to be solvent by LCH.Clearnet SA
unless evidenced to the contrary by the Carrying Clearing Member in the manner set forth
in Section 5 of the Procedures or as otherwise reasonably determined by
LCH.Clearnet SA);

(ii)

where the entire portfolio of Client Cleared Transactions of all the CCM Indirect Clients of
that CCM Individual Segregated Account Client is to be transferred, none of the CCM
Indirect Clients has become insolvent (such CCM Indirect Clients to be presumed to be

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

144

Published on 14 April 2016

solvent by LCH.Clearnet SA unless evidenced to the contrary by the Carrying Clearing
Member);
(iii)

the Receiving Clearing Member and the Carrying Clearing Member are CCMs;

(iv)

neither the Carrying Clearing Member nor the Receiving Clearing Member is a Defaulting
Clearing Member;

(v)

where Client Assets to be transferred simultaneously with the transfer of the Client
Cleared Transactions comprise Pledged Eligible Collateral, the Receiving Clearing
Member has entered into a Pledge Agreement with LCH.Clearnet SA and has opened with
LCH.Clearnet SA a pledged securities account at Euroclear Bank for the purpose of
holding the relevant Eligible Collateral in respect of its CCM Clients;

(vi)

both the Carrying Clearing Member and the Receiving Clearing Member have satisfied
their obligations in respect of the relevant Morning Call; and

(vii)

the Carrying Clearing Member has not rejected such transfer (it being presumed by
LCH.Clearnet SA that the Carrying Clearing Member has not so rejected the transfer
unless evidenced to the contrary by the Carrying Clearing Member in the manner set forth
in the Section 5 of the Procedures or as otherwise reasonably determined by
LCH.Clearnet SA).

For the purposes of Article 5.3.2.1(vii) above, the Carrying Clearing Member will be entitled to
reject the transfer of the relevant Client Cleared Transactions only if: (a) the relevant CCM
Individual Segregated Account Client has failed to satisfy all outstanding obligations that are due
and payable to the Carrying Clearing Member, including any increased Margin due and payable
that may result from the proposed transfer; (b) the transfer of the relevant Client Cleared
Transactions recorded in the CCM Individual Segregated Account Structure would result in the
CCM Individual Segregated Account Client breaching exposure limits with, and/or other risk
parameters set by, the Carrying Clearing Member; or (c) such rejection is in accordance with the
terms agreed as between the Carrying Clearing Member and the relevant CCM Individual
Segregated Account Client.
Article 5.3.2.2
Upon the instruction of each CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account Client within a CCM Net
Omnibus Client Set of a Carrying Clearing Member, the Receiving Clearing Member shall request
LCH.Clearnet SA (as set out in Section 5 of the Procedures) to transfer:
(a)

each of such CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account Clients' entire portfolio (and not less
than an entire portfolio) of Client Cleared Transactions to the relevant CCM Client Trade
Accounts of the Receiving Clearing Member; and

(b)

if also requested by the Receiving Clearing Member, all Client Assets attributable to such
CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account Clients from the Carrying Clearing Member's
relevant CCM Client Collateral Account to the Receiving Clearing Member's relevant CCM
Client Collateral Account. Subject to paragraph (vi) hereof, any Carrying Clearing Member
expressly and irrevocably agrees to such transfers and acknowledges that they may be
implemented by LCH.Clearnet SA, in accordance with the conditions set forth herein,
without its involvement.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

145

Published on 14 April 2016

It is a condition precedent to any such transfer of Client Cleared Transactions and/or relevant
Client Assets (as the case may be) that:
(i)

none of the CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account Clients within the relevant CCM Net
Omnibus Client Set has become insolvent (each such CCM Net Omnibus Segregated
Account Client to be presumed to be solvent by LCH.Clearnet SA unless evidenced to the
contrary by the Carrying Clearing Member in the manner set forth in Section 5 of the
Procedures or as otherwise reasonably determined by LCH.Clearnet SA);

(ii)

the Receiving Clearing Member and the Carrying Clearing Member are CCMs;

(iii)

neither the Carrying Clearing Member nor the Receiving Clearing Member is a Defaulting
Clearing Member;

(iv)

where Client Assets, to be transferred simultaneously with the transfer of the Client
Cleared Transactions, comprise Pledged Eligible Collateral, the Receiving Clearing
Member has entered into a Pledge Agreement with LCH.Clearnet SA and has opened with
LCH.Clearnet SA a pledged securities account at Euroclear Bank for the purpose of
holding the relevant Eligible Collateral in respect of its CCM Clients;

(v)

both the Carrying Clearing Member and the Receiving Clearing Member have satisfied
their obligations in respect of the relevant Morning Call; and

(vi)

the Carrying Clearing Member has not rejected such transfer (it being presumed by
LCH.Clearnet SA that the Carrying Clearing Member has not so rejected the transfer
unless evidenced to the contrary by the Carrying Clearing Member in the manner set forth
in the Section 5 of the Procedures or as otherwise reasonably determined by
LCH.Clearnet SA).

For the purposes of Article 5.3.2.2(vi) above, the Carrying Clearing Member will be entitled to
reject the transfer of the relevant Client Cleared Transactions only if: (a) one or more of the
relevant CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account Clients has failed to satisfy all outstanding
obligations that are due and payable to the Carrying Clearing Member, including any increased
Margin due and payable that may result from the proposed transfer; (b) the transfer of the Client
Cleared Transactions would result in one or more of the CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account
Clients breaching exposure limits with, and/or other risk parameters set by, the Carrying Clearing
Member; or (c) such rejection is in accordance with terms agreed as between the Carrying
Clearing Member and one or more of the CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account Clients.
Article 5.3.2.3
Upon the instruction of each CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Client within a CCM Gross
Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Client Set of a Carrying Clearing Member, the Receiving Clearing
Member shall request LCH.Clearnet SA (as set out in Section 5 of the Procedures) to transfer:
(a)

each of such CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Clients' entire portfolio (and not less
than an entire portfolio) of Client Cleared Transactions to the relevant CCM Client Trade
Accounts of the Receiving Clearing Member; and

(b)

if also requested by the Receiving Clearing Member, all Client Assets relating to the CCM
Cleared Transactions that are being transferred to a Receiving Clearing Member
designated by such CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Clients (as set out in Section

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

146

Published on 14 April 2016

5 of the Procedures), from the Carrying Clearing Member's relevant CCM Client Collateral
Account to the Receiving Clearing Member's relevant CCM Client Collateral Account.
Subject to paragraph (vi) hereof, any Carrying Clearing Member expressly and irrevocably agrees
to such transfers and acknowledges that they may be implemented by LCH.Clearnet SA, in
accordance with the conditions set forth herein, without its involvement.
It is a condition precedent to any such transfer of Client Cleared Transactions and/or relevant
Client Assets (as the case may be) that:
(i)

none of the CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Clients within the relevant CCM
Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Client Set has become insolvent (each such CCM
Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Client to be presumed to be solvent by LCH.Clearnet
SA unless evidenced to the contrary by the Carrying Clearing Member in the manner set
forth in Section 5 of the Procedures or as otherwise reasonably determined by
LCH.Clearnet SA);

(ii)

the Receiving Clearing Member and the Carrying Clearing Member are CCMs;

(iii)

neither the Carrying Clearing Member nor the Receiving Clearing Member is a Defaulting
Clearing Member;

(iv)

where Client Assets, to be transferred simultaneously with the transfer of the Client
Cleared Transactions, comprise Pledged Eligible Collateral, the Receiving Clearing
Member has entered into a Pledge Agreement with LCH.Clearnet SA and has opened with
LCH.Clearnet SA a pledged securities account at Euroclear Bank for the purpose of
holding the relevant Eligible Collateral in respect of its CCM Clients;

(v)

both the Carrying Clearing Member and the Receiving Clearing Member have satisfied
their obligations in respect of the relevant Morning Call; and

(vi)

the Carrying Clearing Member has not rejected such transfer (it being presumed by
LCH.Clearnet SA that the Carrying Clearing Member has not so rejected the transfer
unless evidenced to the contrary by the Carrying Clearing Member in the manner set forth
in the Section 5 of the Procedures or as otherwise reasonably determined by
LCH.Clearnet SA).

For the purposes of Article 5.3.2.3(vi) above, the Carrying Clearing Member will be entitled to
reject the transfer of the relevant Client Cleared Transactions only if: (a) one or more of the
relevant CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Clients has failed to satisfy all outstanding
obligations that are due and payable to the Carrying Clearing Member, including any increased
Margin due and payable that may result from the proposed transfer; (b) the transfer of the Client
Cleared Transactions would result in one or more of the CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account
Clients breaching exposure limits with, and/or other risk parameters set by, the Carrying Clearing
Member; or (c) such rejection is in accordance with terms agreed as between the Carrying
Clearing Member and one or more of the CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Clients.
Article 5.3.2.4
Upon the instruction of a CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client, a Receiving Clearing
Member shall request LCH.Clearnet SA (as set out in Section 5 of the Procedures) to transfer:
(a)

the entire portfolio (and not less than an entire portfolio) of Client Cleared Transactions
registered in the CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Structure of that CCM Gross

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

147

Published on 14 April 2016

Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client to the relevant CCM Client Trade Account of the
Receiving Clearing Member; and
(b)

if also requested by the Receiving Clearing Member, all Client Assets relating to the CCM
Cleared Transactions that are being transferred to a Receiving Clearing Member designated
by such CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Clients (as set out in Section 5 of the
Procedures), from the Carrying Clearing Member's relevant CCM Client Collateral Account
to the Receiving Clearing Member's relevant CCM Client Collateral Account.

Subject to paragraph (vi) hereof, any Carrying Clearing Member expressly and irrevocably agrees
to such transfers and acknowledges that they may be implemented by LCH.Clearnet SA, in
accordance with the conditions set forth herein, without its involvement.
It is a condition precedent to any such transfer of Client Cleared Transactions and/or relevant
Client Assets (as the case may be) that:
(i)

such CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client has not become insolvent (such
CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client to be presumed to be solvent by
LCH.Clearnet SA unless evidenced to the contrary by the Carrying Clearing Member in the
manner set forth in Section 5 of the Procedures or as otherwise reasonably determined by
LCH.Clearnet SA);

(ii)

the Receiving Clearing Member and the Carrying Clearing Member are CCMs;

(iii)

neither the Carrying Clearing Member nor the Receiving Clearing Member is a Defaulting
Clearing Member;

(iv)

where Client Assets to be transferred simultaneously with the transfer of the Client
Cleared Transactions comprise Pledged Eligible Collateral, the Receiving Clearing
Member has entered into a Pledge Agreement with LCH.Clearnet SA and has opened with
LCH.Clearnet SA a pledged securities account at Euroclear Bank for the purpose of
holding the relevant Eligible Collateral in respect of its CCM Clients;

(v)

both the Carrying Clearing Member and the Receiving Clearing Member have satisfied
their obligations in respect of the relevant Morning Call; and

(vi)

the Carrying Clearing Member has not rejected such transfer (it being presumed by
LCH.Clearnet SA that the Carrying Clearing Member has not so rejected the transfer
unless evidenced to the contrary by the Carrying Clearing Member in the manner set forth
in the Section 5 of the Procedures or as otherwise reasonably determined by
LCH.Clearnet SA).

For the purposes of Article 5.3.2.4(vi) above, the Carrying Clearing Member will be entitled to
reject the transfer of the relevant Client Cleared Transactions only if: (a) the relevant CCM Gross
Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client has failed to satisfy all outstanding obligations that are due
and payable to the Carrying Clearing Member, including any increased Margin due and payable
that may result from the proposed transfer; (b) the transfer of the relevant Client Cleared
Transactions recorded in the CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Structure would result in
the CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client breaching exposure limits with, and/or other
risk parameters set by, the Carrying Clearing Member; or (c) such rejection is in accordance with
the terms agreed as between the Carrying Clearing Member and the relevant CCM Gross
Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

148

Published on 14 April 2016

Article 5.3.2.5
If, a transfer is not effected due to one of the conditions in Article 5.3.2.1, Article 5.3.2.2, Article
5.3.2.3 or Article 5.3.2.4 not being satisfied but the Receiving Clearing Member wishes to proceed
with such transfer, it shall be required to submit a new request to transfer in accordance with
Article 5.3.2.1, Article 5.3.2.2, Article 5.3.2.3 or Article 5.3.2.4 (as applicable).

Section 5.3.3 Partial transfers
Article 5.3.3.1
Upon the instruction of a CCM Individual Segregated Account Client, a Receiving Clearing
Member shall request LCH.Clearnet SA (as set out in Section 5 of the Procedures) to transfer:
(a)

a portion of the portfolio of Client Cleared Transactions registered in the CCM Direct Client
Segregated Account Structure of that CCM Individual Segregated Account Client; and/or

(b)

a portion of the portfolio of Client Cleared Transactions registered in the CCM Indirect
Client Segregated Account Structure of that CCM Individual Segregated Account Client,

to the relevant CCM Client Trade Account(s) of the Receiving Clearing Member.
Subject to paragraph (vi) hereof, any Carrying Clearing Member expressly and irrevocably agrees
to such transfer and acknowledges that it may be implemented by LCH.Clearnet SA, in
accordance with the conditions set forth herein, without its involvement.
Where a request is made in accordance with this Article 5.3.3.1, no Client Assets shall be
permitted to be transferred from the Carrying Clearing Member's relevant CCM Client Collateral
Account to the Receiving Clearing Member's relevant CCM Client Collateral Account(s).
It is a condition precedent to any such transfer of the Client Cleared Transactions that:
(i)

such CCM Individual Segregated Account Client has not become insolvent (such CCM
Individual Segregated Account Client to be presumed to be solvent by LCH.Clearnet SA
unless evidenced to the contrary by the Carrying Clearing Member in the manner set forth
in Section 5 of the Procedures or as otherwise reasonably determined by
LCH.Clearnet SA);

(ii)

where Client Cleared Transactions of CCM Indirect Clients of that CCM Individual
Segregated Account Client are to be transferred, none of the relevant CCM Indirect Clients
has become insolvent (such CCM Indirect Clients to be presumed to be solvent by
LCH.Clearnet SA unless evidenced to the contrary by the Carrying Clearing Member);

(iii)

the Receiving Clearing Member and the Carrying Clearing Member are CCMs;

(iv)

neither the Carrying Clearing Member nor the Receiving Clearing Member is a Defaulting
Clearing Member;

(v)

both the Carrying Clearing Member and the Receiving Clearing Member have satisfied
their obligations in respect of the relevant Morning Call; and

(vi)

the Carrying Clearing Member has not rejected such transfer (it being presumed by
LCH.Clearnet SA that the Carrying Clearing Member has not so rejected the transfer
unless evidenced to the contrary by the Carrying Clearing Member in the manner set forth
in Section 5 of the Procedures or as otherwise reasonably determined by LCH.Clearnet
SA).

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

149

Published on 14 April 2016

For the purposes of Article 5.3.3.1(vi) above, the Carrying Clearing Member may be entitled to
reject the transfer of the relevant Client Cleared Transactions only if; (a) the CCM Individual
Segregated Account Client has failed to satisfy all outstanding obligations that are due and
payable to the Carrying Clearing Member, including any increased Margin due and payable that
may result from the proposed transfer; (b) the transfer of the relevant Client Cleared Transactions
recorded in the CCM Individual Segregated Account Structure would result in the CCM Individual
Segregated Account Client breaching exposure limits with, and/or other risk parameters set by, the
Carrying Clearing Member; or (c) such rejection is in accordance with the terms agreed as
between the Carrying Clearing Member and the relevant CCM Individual Segregated Account
Client.
Article 5.3.3.2
Upon the instruction of a CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account Client in circumstances where
(a) one or more CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account Clients within the relevant CCM Net
Omnibus Client Set of a Carrying Clearing Member do not wish to transfer all the relevant Client
Cleared Transactions to the Receiving Clearing Member; or (b) a CCM Net Omnibus Segregated
Account Client within the relevant CCM Net Omnibus Client Set wishes to transfer a portion of
such CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account Client’s portfolio of Client Cleared Transactions to
the Receiving Clearing Member, the Receiving Clearing Member shall request LCH.Clearnet SA
(as set out in Section 5 of the Procedures) to transfer some but not all of Client Cleared
Transactions to the relevant CCM Client Trade Account of the Receiving Clearing Member. Subject
to paragraph (v) hereof, any Carrying Clearing Member expressly and irrevocably agrees to such
transfer and acknowledges that it may be implemented by LCH.Clearnet SA, in accordance with
the conditions set forth herein, without its involvement.
Where a request is made in accordance with this Article 5.3.3.2, no Client Assets shall be
permitted to be transferred from the Carrying Clearing Member's relevant CCM Client Collateral
Account to the Receiving Clearing Member's relevant CCM Client Collateral Account.
It is a condition precedent to the transfer of the Client Cleared Transactions of the CCM Net
Omnibus Segregated Account Client(s) that:
(i)

no CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account Client within the relevant CCM Net Omnibus
Client Set has become insolvent (each CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account Client to
be presumed to be solvent by LCH.Clearnet SA unless evidenced to the contrary by the
Carrying Clearing Member in the manner set forth in Section 5 of the Procedures or as
otherwise reasonably determined by LCH.Clearnet SA);

(ii)

the Receiving Clearing Member and the Carrying Clearing Member are CCMs;

(iii)

neither the Carrying Clearing Member nor the Receiving Clearing Member is a Defaulting
Clearing Member;

(iv)

both the Carrying Clearing Member and the Receiving Clearing Member have satisfied
their obligations in respect of the relevant Morning Call; and

(v)

the Carrying Clearing Member has not rejected such transfer (it being presumed by
LCH.Clearnet SA that the Carrying Clearing Member has not so rejected the transfer
unless evidenced to the contrary by the Carrying Clearing Member in the manner set forth
in Section 5 of the Procedures or as otherwise reasonably determined by LCH.Clearnet
SA).

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

150

Published on 14 April 2016

For purposes of Article 5.3.3.2(v) above, the Carrying Clearing Member may be entitled to reject
the transfer of the relevant Client Cleared Transactions only if; (a) one or more CCM Net Omnibus
Segregated Account Clients within the relevant CCM Net Omnibus Client Set has failed to satisfy
all outstanding obligations that are due and payable to the Carrying Clearing Member, including
any increased Margin due and payable that may result from the proposed transfer; (b) the transfer
of the relevant Client Cleared Transactions would result in one or more CCM Net Omnibus
Segregated Account Clients breaching exposure limits with, and/or other risk parameters set by,
the Carrying Clearing Member; or (c) such rejection is in accordance with the terms agreed as
between the Carrying Clearing Member and the relevant CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account
Clients.
Article 5.3.3.3
Upon the instruction of a CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Client in circumstances where
(a) one or more CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Clients within the relevant CCM Gross
Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Client Set of a Carrying Clearing Member do not wish to transfer all
the relevant Client Cleared Transactions to the Receiving Clearing Member; or (b) a CCM Gross
Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Client within the relevant CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account
Client Set wishes to transfer a portion of such CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Client’s
portfolio of Client Cleared Transactions to the Receiving Clearing Member, the Receiving Clearing
Member shall request LCH.Clearnet SA (as set out in Section 5 of the Procedures) to transfer
some but not all of Client Cleared Transactions to the relevant CCM Client Trade Account of the
Receiving Clearing Member. Subject to paragraph (v) hereof, any Carrying Clearing Member
expressly and irrevocably agrees to such transfer and acknowledges that it may be implemented
by LCH.Clearnet SA, in accordance with the conditions set forth herein, without its involvement.
Where a request is made in accordance with this Article 5.3.3.3, no Client Assets shall be
permitted to be transferred from the Carrying Clearing Member's relevant CCM Client Collateral
Account to the Receiving Clearing Member's relevant CCM Client Collateral Account.
It is a condition precedent to the transfer of the Client Cleared Transactions of the CCM Gross
Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Client(s) that:
(i)

no CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Client within the relevant CCM Gross
Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Client Set has become insolvent (each CCM Gross Omnibus
Multi Sub-Account Client to be presumed to be solvent by LCH.Clearnet SA unless
evidenced to the contrary by the Carrying Clearing Member in the manner set forth in
Section 5 of the Procedures or as otherwise reasonably determined by LCH.Clearnet SA);

(ii)

the Receiving Clearing Member and the Carrying Clearing Member are CCMs;

(iii)

neither the Carrying Clearing Member nor the Receiving Clearing Member is a Defaulting
Clearing Member;

(iv)

both the Carrying Clearing Member and the Receiving Clearing Member have satisfied
their obligations in respect of the relevant Morning Call; and

(v)

the Carrying Clearing Member has not rejected such transfer (it being presumed by
LCH.Clearnet SA that the Carrying Clearing Member has not so rejected the transfer
unless evidenced to the contrary by the Carrying Clearing Member in the manner set forth
in Section 5 of the Procedures or as otherwise reasonably determined by LCH.Clearnet
SA).

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

151

Published on 14 April 2016

For purposes of Article 5.3.3.3(v) above, the Carrying Clearing Member may be entitled to reject
the transfer of the relevant Client Cleared Transactions only if; (a) one or more CCM Gross
Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Clients within the relevant CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account
Client Set has failed to satisfy all outstanding obligations that are due and payable to the Carrying
Clearing Member, including any increased Margin due and payable that may result from the
proposed transfer; (b) the transfer of the relevant Client Cleared Transactions would result in one
or more CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Clients breaching exposure limits with, and/or
other risk parameters set by, the Carrying Clearing Member; or (c) such rejection is in accordance
with the terms agreed as between the Carrying Clearing Member and the relevant CCM Gross
Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Clients.
Article 5.3.3.4
Upon the instruction of a CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client, a Receiving Clearing
Member shall request LCH.Clearnet SA (as set out in Section 5 of the Procedures) to transfer a
portion of the portfolio of Client Cleared Transactions registered in the CCM Gross Omnibus
Single Sub-Account Structure of that CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client to the
relevant CCM Client Trade Account of the Receiving Clearing Member.
Subject to paragraph (v) hereof, any Carrying Clearing Member expressly and irrevocably agrees
to such transfer and acknowledges that it may be implemented by LCH.Clearnet SA, in
accordance with the conditions set forth herein, without its involvement.
Where a request is made in accordance with this Article 5.3.3.4, no Client Assets shall be
permitted to be transferred from the Carrying Clearing Member's relevant CCM Client Collateral
Account to the Receiving Clearing Member's relevant CCM Client Collateral Account.
It is a condition precedent to any such transfer of the Client Cleared Transactions that:
(i)

such CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client has not become insolvent (such
CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client to be presumed to be solvent by
LCH.Clearnet SA unless evidenced to the contrary by the Carrying Clearing Member in the
manner set forth in Section 5 of the Procedures or as otherwise reasonably determined by
LCH.Clearnet SA);

(ii)

the Receiving Clearing Member and the Carrying Clearing Member are CCMs;

(iii)

neither the Carrying Clearing Member nor the Receiving Clearing Member is a Defaulting
Clearing Member;

(iv)

both the Carrying Clearing Member and the Receiving Clearing Member have satisfied
their obligations in respect of the relevant Morning Call; and

(v)

the Carrying Clearing Member has not rejected such transfer (it being presumed by
LCH.Clearnet SA that the Carrying Clearing Member has not so rejected the transfer
unless evidenced to the contrary by the Carrying Clearing Member in the manner set forth
in Section 5 of the Procedures or as otherwise reasonably determined by LCH.Clearnet
SA).

For the purposes of Article 5.3.3.4(v) above, the Carrying Clearing Member may be entitled to
reject the transfer of the relevant Client Cleared Transactions only if; (a) the CCM Gross Omnibus
Single Sub-Account Client has failed to satisfy all outstanding obligations that are due and payable
to the Carrying Clearing Member, including any increased Margin due and payable that may result
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

152

Published on 14 April 2016

from the proposed transfer; (b) the transfer of the relevant Client Cleared Transactions recorded in
the CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Structure would result in the CCM Gross Omnibus
Single Sub-Account Client breaching exposure limits with, and/or other risk parameters set by, the
Carrying Clearing Member; or (c) such rejection is in accordance with the terms agreed as
between the Carrying Clearing Member and the relevant CCM Gross Omnibus Single SubAccount Client.

Section 5.3.4 Transfer of Client Assets
Article 5.3.4.1
In relation to the circumstances set out in Section 5.3.2, for the purpose of a transfer of Client
Assets:
(i)

in accordance with Article 5.3.2.1 or Article 5.3.2.2, LCH.Clearnet SA shall notify the
Receiving Clearing Member of the Client Assets which are to be transferred; or

(ii)

in accordance with Article 5.3.2.3 or Article 5.3.2.4, upon request from LCH.Clearnet SA,
the Carrying Clearing Member shall notify LCH.Clearnet SA of the Client Assets which are
attributable to the transferring CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Client Set or CCM
Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client (as the case may be) and, along with the
Receiving Clearing Member, shall take such actions and provide such information to
LCH.Clearnet SA in connection with the transfer as may be required by LCH.Clearnet SA.
In the event that the Carrying Clearing Member fails to notify LCH.Clearnet SA of the
Client Assets that are attributable to the relevant CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account
Client Set or CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client, LCH.Clearnet SA shall
transfer such Collateral from the CCM Client Collateral Account of the Carrying Clearing
Member's relevant CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Structure to the Receiving
Clearing Member’s relevant CCM Client Collateral Account as it deems appropriate and as
set out in Section 5 of the Procedures.

Article 5.3.4.2
Following such notification made in accordance with Article 5.3.4.1, the Receiving Clearing
Member may elect to reject the transfer of some or all of the Client Assets. Any such election will
not prevent the transfer of the relevant Client Cleared Transactions and any related Client Assets
which have been accepted by the Receiving Clearing Member, provided that the conditions set out
in sub-paragraphs (i) to (vii) of Article 5.3.2.1, sub-paragraphs (i) to (vi) of Article 5.3.2.2, subparagraphs (i) to (vi) of Article 5.3.2.3 or sub-paragraphs (i) to (vi) of Article 5.3.2.2 (as applicable)
are satisfied in relation to such transfer.
Article 5.3.4.3
Provided that the Receiving Clearing Member has not rejected the transfer all of the Client Assets
in accordance with Article 5.3.4.2, LCH.Clearnet SA shall transfer the Client Assets from the
Carrying Clearing Member's relevant CCM Client Collateral Account to the Receiving Clearing
Member's relevant CCM Client Collateral Account. In the event that, for whatever reason,
LCH.Clearnet SA is unable to transfer such Client Assets, LCH.Clearnet SA will not proceed with
the transfer of the relevant Client Cleared Transactions.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

153

Published on 14 April 2016

Section 5.3.5 Transfer process
Article 5.3.5.1
(i)

Further to the satisfaction of the conditions set out in Article 5.3.2.1, Article 5.3.2.2, Article
5.3.2.3, Article 5.3.2.4, Article 5.3.3.1, Article 5.3.3.2, Article 5.3.3.3 or Article 5.3.3.4 (as
appropriate) above, and provided that LCH.Clearnet SA does not determine, in its sole
discretion, that the transfer cannot be effected under this CDS Clearing Rule Book or the
Procedures, LCH.Clearnet SA shall transfer the relevant Client Cleared Transaction(s) to
the relevant CCM Client Trade Account(s) of the Receiving Clearing Member for the
benefit of the relevant CCM Client(s). Such Client Cleared Transaction(s) will be
processed in accordance with CHAPTER 1 of TITLE III.

(ii)

In the case where a transfer of Client Cleared Transactions, pursuant to Article 5.3.2.1,
Article 5.3.2.2, Article 5.3.2.3 or Article 5.3.3.2 will include the transfer of the related Client
Assets:
(a)

(b)

In respect of Client Assets which have been transferred by the Carrying Clearing
Member to LCH.Clearnet SA on a full title transfer basis in accordance with Article
5.3.2.1, Article 5.3.2.2, Article 5.3.2.3 or Article 5.3.2.4 such transfer shall be
effected as follows:
(A)

the Carrying Clearing Member shall relinquish all rights to such Client
Assets (including, for the avoidance of doubt, any beneficial interest
and/or equity of redemption in respect thereof);

(B)

such Client Assets shall immediately upon such relinquishment be held by
LCH.Clearnet SA on behalf of the Receiving Clearing Member; and

(C)

the Receiving Clearing Member’s rights to such Client Assets arising as
described in paragraph (B) above shall become, in respect of the relevant
Client Cleared Transactions, subject to the title transfer security
arrangements entered into between the Receiving Clearing Member and
LCH.Clearnet SA in relation to the provision of cover.

In respect of Client Assets that are subject to the Pledge Agreement entered into
between the Carrying Clearing Member and LCH.Clearnet SA in relation to the
provision of Collateral, in accordance with Article 5.2.4.2, such transfer shall be
effected in accordance with Section 3 of the Procedures.

(iii)

For the avoidance of doubt, the Carrying Clearing Member shall have no right or
entitlement to assert any claim over, or right with respect to, the Client Assets transferred.

(iv)

The transfer of the Client Cleared Transactions and associated Client Assets shall be
deemed to occur simultaneously, and the transfer of the Client Cleared Transactions shall
be conditional on the transfer of the related Client Assets, and vice versa.

(v)

If the transfer of the Client Cleared Transactions and associated Client Assets is not
completed for any reason, then any transfer or registration of Client Assets or Client
Cleared Transactions shall be immediately unwound and such transfer or registration shall
be deemed never to have occurred.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

154

Published on 14 April 2016

Article 5.3.5.2
Subject to Article 5.3.5.3 below, but otherwise notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the CDS
Clearing Rules, in making any transfer of Client Cleared Transactions and (if applicable) Client
Assets pursuant to this TITLE V, Chapter 3, LCH.Clearnet SA shall be authorised and entitled to
rely conclusively on the instructions of and information provided by the relevant CCM(s), which
shall be solely responsible for all such instructions and information, including ensuring that:
(i)

the transfer is properly authorised or rejected (as the case may be);

(ii)

the appropriate CCM Client Trade Account(s) have been identified; and

(iii)

in the case of a partial transfer of Client Cleared Transactions pursuant to Article 5.3.3.1,
Article 5.3.3.2, Article 5.3.3.3 or Article 5.3.3.4 the appropriate Client Cleared Transactions
have been identified by the Receiving Clearing Member,

and LCH.Clearnet SA shall have no responsibility or liability therefore.
Article 5.3.5.3
LCH.Clearnet SA shall verify that the Client Cleared Transactions notified to it by a CCM, as being
the subject of such a transfer, correspond to Client Cleared Transactions which, according to its
records, are registered in the Client Account Structure of the Carrying Clearing Member in respect
of the relevant CCM Client and CCM Indirect Clients (if applicable). In the event that
LCH.Clearnet SA identifies a discrepancy, it will notify the relevant CCM(s) and no transfer will
occur pursuant to TITLE V, Chapter 3, until such time as the Client Cleared Transactions identified
to LCH.Clearnet SA by the relevant CCM(s) can be verified by LCH.Clearnet SA.
Article 5.3.5.4
The Carrying Clearing Member agrees to indemnify LCH.Clearnet SA in respect of all liabilities,
costs, loss, fees, damages or expenses suffered or incurred by LCH.Clearnet SA (howsoever
arising or occurring) by reason of a proposed transfer being rejected by the Carrying Clearing
Member other than in compliance with the grounds set out in the final paragraph of Article 5.3.2.1,
Article 5.3.2.2, Article 5.3.2.3, Article 5.3.2.4, Article 5.3.3.1, Article 5.3.3.2, Article 5.3.3.3 or Article
5.3.3.4 (as the case may be).

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

155

Published on 14 April 2016

CHAPTER 4 - EARLY TERMINATION
Article 5.4.1.1
If at any time an early termination date, howsoever described in the relevant CDS Client Clearing
Agreement, occurs in respect of one or more Deemed Client Transaction(s) (other than Deemed
Client Transactions entered into in relation to Client Cleared Transactions registered in a CCM
Indirect Client Segregated Account Structure) and provided that, at the time of such early
termination date, the relevant CCM is not a Defaulting Clearing Member, that CCM may instruct
LCH.Clearnet SA to transfer the corresponding Client Cleared Transactions from the relevant CCM
Client Trade Account to the House Trade Account of such CCM, in accordance with Section 5 of
the Procedures.
Article 5.4.1.2
If at any time, an early termination date, howsoever described in the relevant indirect clearing
arrangement in place between a CCM Client and a CCM Indirect Client, occurs in respect of one
or more transactions entered into between such CCM Client and such CCM Indirect Client and, in
turn, triggers the early termination of the corresponding Deemed Client Transaction(s), and
provided that the relevant CCM, at the time of such early termination date, is not a Defaulting
Clearing Member, and an early termination date has not also occurred in respect of all Deemed
Client Transaction(s), as described in Article 5.4.1.3, that CCM may instruct LCH.Clearnet SA to
transfer the Client Cleared Transactions registered in the relevant CCM Indirect Client Segregated
Account Structure to the relevant CCM Client’s CCM Direct Client Segregated Account Structure,
in accordance with Section 5 of the Procedures.
Article 5.4.1.3
If at any time, an early termination date, howsoever described in the relevant CDS Client Clearing
Agreement, occurs in respect of all Deemed Client Transactions which have been entered into in
relation to Client Cleared Transactions registered in a CCM Indirect Client Segregated Account
Structure, and provided that the relevant CCM, at the time of such early termination date, is not a
Defaulting Clearing Member, that CCM may instruct LCH.Clearnet SA to take one of the following
steps in relation to Client Cleared Transactions registered in a CCM Indirect Client Segregated
Account Structure:
(i)

in circumstances where such CCM notifies a single Backup Client in respect of all Client
Cleared Transactions registered in the relevant CCM Indirect Client Segregated Account
Structure, and further provided that none of the relevant CCM Indirect Clients has become
insolvent (such CCM Indirect Clients to be presumed to be solvent by LCH.Clearnet SA
unless evidenced to the contrary by the CCM), transfer to the appointed Backup Client all
the relevant Client Cleared Transactions and Client Assets registered in the relevant CCM
Indirect Client Segregated Account Structure; or

(ii)

transfer all Client Cleared Transactions registered in the relevant CCM Indirect Client
Segregated Account Structure to the House Trade Account of such CCM,

in accordance with the conditions set forth in Section 5 of the Procedures. For the avoidance of
doubt, the list above is not exhaustive and LCH.Clearnet SA may take any steps or proceedings
other than those referred to in this Article 5.4.1.3, in accordance with the instructions of the CCM.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

156

Published on 14 April 2016

Article 5.4.1.4
LCH.Clearnet SA will arrange a transfer of the relevant Client Cleared Transactions mentioned in
Article 5.4.1.1, Article 5.4.1.2 and Article 5.4.1.3 in the conditions set out in Section 5 of the
Procedures and provided that LCH.Clearnet SA has received an indemnity from the relevant CCM
in a form suitable to LCH.Clearnet SA to cover any losses, costs or expenses incurred by
LCH.Clearnet SA in connection with the transfer.
Article 5.4.1.5
LCH.Clearnet SA shall act solely upon the instructions of the CCM to perform the process set out
in Article 5.4.1.3 and Section 5 of the Procedures and shall not incur any liability to the relevant
CCM, CCM Individual Segregated Account Client or CCM Indirect Client as a result thereof.
The CCM agrees to indemnify and hold LCH.Clearnet SA harmless from and against any and all
loss, liability, damage, cost, penalty, fine, tax or expense (including, without limitation, reasonable
attorney's fees, cost of collection, and any reasonable cost incurred in successfully defending
against any claim asserted by the CCM, CCM Individual Segregated Account Client or the CCM
Indirect Client, as the case may be) in connection with any steps or proceedings taken by
LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to Article 5.4.1.3 or as a result of the application of Article 5.4.1.3.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

157

Published on 14 April 2016

TITLE VI
CDS FCM CLIENT CLEARING

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

158

Published on 14 April 2016

CHAPTER 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 6
Section 6.1
Article 6.1.1.1
An FCM Clearing Member may provide CDS Client Clearing Services to its FCM Clients after
obtaining confirmation from LCH.Clearnet SA it has duly filed and submitted all the documentation
and information required pursuant to Section 1 of the Procedures. An FCM Clearing Member may
also enter into Cleared Transactions for its own account. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an FCM
Clearing Member may not enter into Cleared Transactions for the account of an Affiliate, unless
such FCM Clearing Member first provides LCH.Clearnet SA with an opinion of counsel, in form
and content acceptable to LCH.Clearnet SA, confirming that entry into such Cleared Transactions
would not be contrary to Applicable Law.
Article 6.1.1.2
An FCM Clearing Member may provide CDS Clearing Services to a Client (or, if permitted
pursuant to Article 6.1.1.1, an Affiliate) on any terms and conditions mutually agreed to by it and
such Person; provided, however, that:
(i)

an FCM Clearing Member shall, before providing CDS Clearing Services to any Client or
Affiliate, ensure that it has entered into an agreement, or an addendum to an existing
agreement, with such Person, that binds such Person to the applicable provisions of the
CDS Clearing Rules (including the FCM CDS Clearing Regulations) by direct reference
thereto or otherwise, and any other provisions as shall be agreed from time to time
between LCH.Clearnet SA and FCM Clearing Members, or as may be prescribed by
LCH.Clearnet SA;

(i)

an FCM Clearing Member shall notify LCH.Clearnet SA of each Affiliate for which it
provides CDS Clearing Services;

(ii)

an FCM Clearing Member shall provide, and separately identify, to LCH.Clearnet SA Client
Cleared Transactions and Collateral in respect of Client Cleared Transactions (in the
aggregate); and

(iii)

an FCM Clearing Member may deliver, and shall separately identify, to LCH.Clearnet SA
Collateral as FCM Client Collateral Buffer.

Article 6.1.1.3
Each FCM Client (and, if permitted pursuant to Article 6.1.1.1, an Affiliate), by participating in
Original Transactions and entering FCM Cleared Transactions through its FCM Clearing Member,
shall be deemed to understand, acknowledge and agree that:
(i)

the receipt of CDS Clearing Services from the FCM Clearing Member which result in the
registration of FCM Cleared Transactions within such FCM Clearing Member’s Client
Trade Account(s) or House Trade Account, as the case may be, will be governed by the
applicable provisions of the CDS Clearing Documentation;

(ii)

it shall be bound by the applicable provisions of the CDS Clearing Documentation in
respect of any FCM Cleared Transactions which are attributable to it;

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

159

Published on 14 April 2016

(iii)

at the time an FCM Cleared Transaction is registered in an FCM Client Trade Account or
House Trade Account of the FCM Clearing Member, as the case may be, on its behalf, the
FCM Client or Affiliate, as applicable, will be deemed to be bound by the relevant FCM
Cleared Transaction on the terms entered into between the FCM Clearing Member and
LCH.Clearnet SA and such FCM Client or Affiliate agrees to be bound automatically and
without further action by the FCM Clearing Member or the FCM Client or Affiliate;

(iv)

it shall not act so as to cause, whether directly or indirectly, a breach of the FCM CDS
Clearing Documentation;

(v)

the provisions of the CDS Clearing Documentation referring to FCM Clients or Affiliates, for
the benefit of LCH.Clearnet SA, including without limitation applicable provisions of this
CDS Clearing Rule Book, are enforceable against such FCM Client or Affiliate by
LCH.Clearnet SA as if they had been entered into by each such Person directly with
LCH.Clearnet SA;

(vi)

LCH.Clearnet SA deals only with Clearing Members, and the FCM Client or Affiliate will
have no right or authority to deal directly with LCH.Clearnet SA, including but not limited to
in connection with the matters described in this Title VI;

(vii)

it will deal only with its FCM Clearing Member in connection with all FCM Cleared
Transactions that are cleared on its behalf by such FCM Clearing Member through
LCH.Clearnet SA;

(viii)

upon an Event of Default occurring in relation to an FCM Clearing Member, if
LCH.Clearnet SA:
(a)

is required to do so by any Competent Authority or Regulatory Body or Applicable
Law,

(b)

cannot for any reason proceed with a Porting of the FCM Cleared Transactions
registered in an FCM Clearing Member’s Account Structure and attributable to an
FCM Client, or

(c)

determines in its discretion that it is necessary for its protection,

LCH.Clearnet SA may close out and terminate the FCM Cleared Transactions registered in
the FCM Clearing Member’s Client Account Structure or House Account Structure and
attributable to an FCM Client or Affiliate, regardless whether such FCM Client or Affiliate
had itself defaulted, and in certain circumstances LCH.Clearnet SA will not transfer or
otherwise re-establish such positions;
(ix)

it will not be entitled to instruct LCH.Clearnet SA to act or omit to act in any manner at any
time prior to an Event of Default in relation to the relevant FCM Clearing Member;

(x)

it will not be entitled to receive any information from LCH.Clearnet SA in respect of any
Margin Balance that is recorded in either the FCM House Collateral Account or any FCM
Client Financial Account, the FCM Unallocated Client Collateral Financial Account or the
FCM Buffer Financial Account of an FCM Clearing Member;

(xi)

LCH.Clearnet SA will not hold any assets transferred to it directly on behalf of any such
individual FCM Client or Affiliate;

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

160

Published on 14 April 2016

(xii)

to the extent the Markit LCH Settlement Prices are provided to the FCM Client, the FCM
Client shall:
(a)

use such Markit LCH Settlement Prices internally and solely in connection with its
clearing functions; and

(b)

only be permitted to provide the Markit LCH Settlement Prices to an affiliate or a
client of its own if: (1) it does so at no cost; (2) the Markit LCH Settlement Prices
are provided for the affiliate or client to use internally and solely in connection with
their respective clearing functions; and (3) the Markit LCH Settlement Prices are
identifiable as such.

For the avoidance of doubt, “clearing functions” shall mean the validation of the FCM
Client's Margin Requirement (or any margin requirement applicable to the FCM Client’s
affiliate or client) and the calculation and valuation of the FCM Client's Open Positions (or
the net open positions of the Client’s affiliate or client) for the purposes of its own internal
books and records;
(xiii)

where Collateral is deposited by the FCM Clearing Member in satisfaction of the House
Margin Requirement or the Client Margin Requirement (as applicable), it shall not be
entitled to assert any equitable or other claim to the Collateral in circumstances where the
assertion of such a claim would delay or inhibit the disposal of such Collateral by
LCH.Clearnet SA and/or the application of the proceeds of sale of such Collateral in
accordance with the provisions of the CDS Clearing Rules and Applicable Law;

(xiv)

the FCM Clearing Member has its unconditional consent to furnish or deposit Collateral
with LCH.Clearnet SA in satisfaction of the Client Margin Requirement or House Margin
Requirement which is attributable to the FCM Cleared Transactions cleared on its behalf,
in accordance with the CDS Clearing Rule Book and the FCM CDS Clearing Regulations,
and to re-pledge such property to LCH.Clearnet SA;

(xv)

LCH.Clearnet SA is authorized to make disclosure of information in accordance with the
applicable provisions of the CDS Clearing Documentation; and

(xvi)

its agreement or agreement and addendum described in clause (i) of Article 6.1.1.2 is
consistent with the CDS Clearing Documentation and Applicable Law.

Article 6.1.1.4
Each FCM Clearing Member shall be obliged (to the extent permitted by Applicable Law) to
provide LCH.Clearnet SA with any information that LCH.Clearnet SA may reasonably require in
relation to the CDS Clearing Services provided by that Clearing Member to its Clients or Affiliates,
including, where and to the extent necessary for the proper performance by LCH.Clearnet SA of its
risk management functions and legal and regulatory obligations, information on the identify of any
of its FCM Clients or any of its Affiliates to which it provides FCM CDS Clearing Services, along
with details of:
(i)

any agreement relating to the provision of CDS Client Clearing Services by the FCM
Clearing Member to its FCM Clients and Affiliates (including the Clearing Agreements);

(ii)

any document reflecting the recording of the FCM Cleared Transactions in the different
accounts held by the FCM Clearing Member per Clearing Day, the details of such FCM

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

161

Published on 14 April 2016

Cleared Transactions and the cover held in respect of such FCM Cleared Transactions;
and
(iii)

the FCM Clearing Member’s written anti-money laundering procedures and written risk
management policies and procedures, and practices, addressing the risks that such FCM
Clearing Member may pose to LCH.Clearnet SA including, but not limited to, information
and documents relating to the liquidity of such FCM Clearing Member’s financial resources
and settlement procedures.

Article 6.1.1.5
Each FCM Clearing Member shall maintain appropriate books and records identifying all pertinent
information regarding (i) its FCM Clients and any Affiliates for which it provides CDS Clearing
Services, and (ii) its Client Cleared Transactions and House Cleared Transactions. Without
limitation of the foregoing, each FCM Clearing Member shall ensure that its books and records
accurately reflect the Cleared Transactions maintained in the FCM Client Trade Accounts and
corresponding Collateral maintained in the FCM Client Financial Accounts for its relevant FCM
Clients. Each FCM Clearing Member will carry accounts for Clients within its own books and
records, and maintain the funds and other property it holds on behalf of its Clients in respect of
their Cleared Transactions, in accordance with the FCM CDS Clearing Regulations and Applicable
Law.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

162

Published on 14 April 2016

CHAPTER 2 – FCM CLIENT ACCOUNT STRUCTURE

Section 6.2.1

General Provisions

Article 6.2.1.1
LCH.Clearnet SA shall open and maintain for each FCM Clearing Member, within its books and
records for the CDS Clearing System, the accounts comprising the FCM Client Account Structure,
as follows:
(i)

a separate FCM Client Trade Account for each FCM Client;

(ii)

a separate FCM Client Margin Account for each FCM Client;

(iii)

a separate FCM Client Financial Account for each FCM Client;

(iv)

an FCM Unallocated Client Collateral Financial Account;

(v)

an FCM Buffer Financial Account; and

(vi)

an FCM Client Collateral Account.

Article 6.2.1.2
LCH.Clearnet SA shall open and maintain the FCM Client Account Structure for an FCM Clearing
Member in the name of such FCM Clearing Member for the benefit of its FCM Clients. The
accounts comprising each FCM Clearing Member’s FCM Client Account Structure shall have their
situs located in the United States.
Article 6.2.1.3
LCH.Clearnet SA shall open and maintain the accounts comprising the FCM Client Account
Structure for each FCM Clearing Member, and maintain the Collateral it holds on behalf of the
FCM Clearing Member’s FCM Clients in respect of their Cleared Transactions, in accordance with
this TITLE VI, the FCM CDS Clearing Regulations, the Procedures and Applicable Law.

Section 6.2.2

FCM Client Trade Account

Article 6.2.2.1
LCH.Clearnet SA shall open one FCM Client Trade Account for each FCM Client of each FCM
Clearing Member.
Article 6.2.2.2
Registration of FCM Cleared Transactions in an FCM Client Trade Account shall initially be made
by LCH.Clearnet SA on the basis of the Transaction Data with respect to the relevant Original
Transaction and amended to reflect any compression of FCM Cleared Transactions pursuant
TITLE III, Chapter 3.

Section 6.2.3

FCM Client Margin Account

Article 6.2.3.1
LCH.Clearnet SA shall open one FCM Client Margin Account for each FCM Client of each FCM
Clearing Member.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

163

Published on 14 April 2016

Article 6.2.3.2
FCM Cleared Transactions registered in an FCM Client Trade Account for an FCM Client of an
FCM Clearing Member will be allocated to the corresponding FCM Client Margin Account for the
purpose of the determination of the Open Positions attributable to such FCM Client.
Article 6.2.3.3
Calculation of Open Positions attributable to an FCM Client and their recording in the relevant
FCM Client Margin Account will be carried out by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Section 2 of
the Procedures.
Article 6.2.3.4
Each FCM Client’s Open Positions will be margined on a portfolio basis. The Total Margin
Requirement for all Client Margin Accounts of an FCM Clearing Member will be margined based
on the gross sum of the margin requirements for all such Client Margin Accounts.

Section 6.2.4

FCM Client Collateral Account, FCM Client Financial
Account and Related Accounts

Article 6.2.4.1
LCH.Clearnet SA shall open:
(i)

an FCM Client Financial Account for each FCM Client of each FCM Clearing Member, in
which LCH.Clearnet SA will record the value of Collateral provided by the FCM Clearing
Member in respect of such FCM Client’s Open Positions;

(ii)

an FCM Buffer Financial Account, in which LCH.Clearnet SA will record the value of
Collateral provided by the FCM Clearing Member as FCM Client Collateral Buffer;

(iii)

an FCM Unallocated Client Collateral Financial Account, in which LCH.Clearnet SA will
record the value of FCM Unallocated Client Excess Collateral; and

(iv)

an FCM Collateral Account, in which LCH.Clearnet SA will record the Collateral held by
LCH.Clearnet recorded in the foregoing accounts.

Article 6.2.4.2
LCH.Clearnet SA is entitled to assume that all Collateral delivered by an FCM Clearing Member to
LCH.Clearnet SA:
(i)

to meet Client Margin Requirements is the sole legal and beneficial property of the FCM
Clearing Member or is furnished or deposited with the legal and beneficial owner’s
unconditional consent and with the authority granted to the FCM Clearing Member to repledge such property to LCH.Clearnet SA; and

(ii)

as FCM Client Collateral Buffer is the sole legal and beneficial property of the FCM
Clearing Member.

An FCM Clearing Member shall not deliver securities or other assets to LCH.Clearnet SA as
Collateral for any FCM Client Financial Account or as FCM Client Collateral Buffer otherwise than
in conformity to this Article 6.2.4.2. It shall be accepted by every Person (including FCM Clients)
subject to or dealing on the terms of these CDS Clearing Rules, that an FCM Clearing Member
has its respective FCM Clients’ unconditional consent to deliver to LCH.Clearnet SA as Collateral
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

164

Published on 14 April 2016

for the purposes of these CDS Clearing Rules any securities or other assets of such Person in the
FCM Clearing Member’s possession.
Article 6.2.4.3
All Collateral delivered by an FCM Clearing Member to meet its House Margin Requirement and
its Client Margin Requirement shall be transferred to, and held by, LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance
with Section 3 of the Procedures and the FCM CDS Clearing Regulations.
Article 6.2.4.4
When LCH.Clearnet SA determines the value of Collateral recorded in the FCM Client Collateral
Account by applying haircuts to Eligible Collateral and/or FX adjustments to Cash Collateral in
accordance with Article 4.2.6.4 (which determinations will occur at the times set out in Section 3 of
the Procedures):
(i)

if there is an increase in the value of such Collateral, an amount of Collateral equal to such
resulting increase will, following such determination, be transferred to the FCM
Unallocated Client Collateral Financial Account, whereupon such amount will become
FCM Unallocated Client Excess Collateral; or

(ii)

if there is a decrease in the value of such Collateral, following such determination, such
decrease in value shall be allocated first against the FCM Available Client Collateral Buffer
(if any), which will be reduced by an amount of Collateral equal to such resulting decrease.
In the case where the FCM Available Client Collateral Buffer is not sufficient to cover the
total amount of Collateral equal to the resulting decrease, the portion which is not covered
by the FCM Available Client Collateral Buffer will reduce on a pro rata basis:
(a)

the Legally Segregated Value recorded in each FCM Client Financial Account;

(b)

the value of the FCM Allocated Client Collateral Buffer recorded in the FCM Buffer
Financial Account; and

(c)

the value of the FCM Unallocated Client Excess Collateral recorded in the FCM
Unallocated Client Collateral Financial Account

of such FCM Clearing Member.

Section 6.2.5

FCM Client Collateral Buffer and FCM Unallocated Client
Excess Collateral

Article 6.2.5.1
If an FCM Clearing Member maintains any FCM Excess Collateral or FCM Client Collateral Buffer
with LCH.Clearnet SA, then such FCM Excess Collateral or FCM Client Collateral Buffer shall be
subject to the provision of this Article 6.2.5.1 and other applicable provisions of the CDS Clearing
Rules.
(i)

House Excess Collateral. An FCM Clearing Member is permitted to maintain FCM House
Excess Collateral with LCH.Clearnet SA. An FCM Clearing Member that is not a Defaulting
Clearing Member may request the return of its FCM House Excess Collateral above its
FCM House Excess Collateral Threshold at any time, and upon such request
LCH.Clearnet SA shall return such amount, unless the FCM Clearing Member has a
Margin Shortfall in any of its FCM Client Margin Accounts and does not have sufficient

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

165

Published on 14 April 2016

FCM Client Collateral Buffer to satisfy such Margin Shortfall. LCH.Clearnet SA may also, in
its discretion, elect at any time to return any FCM House Excess Collateral to the
applicable FCM Clearing Member.
(ii)

FCM Client Excess Collateral and Reclassification of Same as FCM Unallocated Client
Excess Collateral. An FCM Clearing Member is not permitted to maintain any FCM Client
Excess Collateral on a day-to-day basis, but may hold FCM Client Excess Collateral on an
intraday basis. Any intraday Client Excess Collateral attributable to a specific FCM Client
Margin Account shall be available for purposes of LCH.Clearnet SA carrying out a Notional
and Collateral Check in respect of the Client Trade Leg of an Eligible Intraday Transaction
for such FCM Client, as provided in Article 4.2.2.4 and Section 2 of the Procedures.
LCH.Clearnet SA shall transfer the value of any FCM Client Excess Collateral that is
reflected in any FCM Client Financial Account of the FCM Clearing Member prior to the
Morning Call to the FCM Clearing Member’s FCM Unallocated Client Collateral Financial
Account, which transfer will occur after (and only after) the FCM Clearing Member’s
satisfaction of that Morning Call, whereupon the FCM Client Excess Collateral shall
become “FCM Unallocated Client Excess Collateral”. If at any time an FCM Clearing
Member delivers Collateral to LCH.Clearnet SA on behalf of an FCM Client in an amount
that would cause such FCM Client’s FCM Client Financial Account to contain FCM Client
Excess Collateral, LCH.Clearnet SA may (a) reject the deposit, (b) immediately transfer
the entire deposit or the amount of such excess back to the FCM Clearing Member or (c)
accept the deposit and immediately transfer the amount of such excess to the FCM
Clearing Member’s FCM Unallocated Client Collateral Financial Account, whereupon it
shall also become FCM Unallocated Client Excess Collateral. FCM Unallocated Client
Excess Collateral also includes amounts described as such in Article 6.2.5.1(iii)(c) and any
amounts transferred to the FCM Unallocated Client Collateral Financial Account in
accordance with Article 6.2.4.4(i).

(iii)

FCM Client Collateral Buffer. An FCM Clearing Member may deposit Collateral that is the
property of such FCM Clearing Member (and not of any of its FCM Clients) with
LCH.Clearnet SA as FCM Client Collateral Buffer for the benefit of all of its FCM Clients,
subject to the following provisions and the provisions of Article 6.2.4.4(ii):
(a)

The FCM Clearing Member shall not, and represents to LCH.Clearnet SA that it
shall not, deposit an amount of FCM Client Collateral Buffer with LCH.Clearnet SA
that, in combination with any other money, securities or other property deposited
by it with any other Derivatives Clearing Organization, in a manner whereby such
FCM Clearing Member is assumed to be the sole legal and beneficial owner of
such property, to meet the aggregate obligations of its Cleared Swaps Customers,
exceeds its residual financial interest in its aggregate Cleared Swaps Customer
Collateral. For purposes of this provision, the terms “Cleared Swaps Customer”
and “Cleared Swaps Customer Collateral” have the meaning set out in CFTC
Regulation 22.1 and the term “residual financial interest” has the meaning as
contemplated in CFTC Regulation 22.2(e)(4) and (g).

(b)

LCH.Clearnet SA shall record such FCM Client Collateral Buffer in the FCM
Clearing Member’s FCM Buffer Financial Account. If an FCM Clearing Member is
a Defaulting Clearing Member, LCH.Clearnet SA may transfer FCM Allocated
Client Collateral Buffer previously allocated (in accordance with Articles 4.2.2.4
and 6.2.4.4) to an FCM Client Financial Account from the FCM Buffer Financial

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

166

Published on 14 April 2016

Account to apply such Collateral to cover any Margin Shortfall in such FCM Client
Financial Account. The value of any FCM Client Collateral Buffer so transferred
shall be recorded in the FCM Client Financial Account and shall be deemed to
become part of the relevant FCM Client’s Client Assets and shall no longer be
deemed FCM Client Collateral Buffer.
(c)

(iv)

If the value of an FCM Clearing Member’s FCM Client Collateral Buffer exceeds its
FCM Client Collateral Buffer Threshold due to a reduction in its prior FCM Client
Collateral Buffer Threshold or to an increase in the value of the FCM Client
Collateral Buffer, provided that such FCM Clearing Member is not a Defaulting
Clearing Member, LCH.Clearnet SA will transfer such excess to its FCM
Unallocated Client Collateral Financial Account, whereupon it shall also become
FCM Unallocated Client Excess Collateral.

Treatment of FCM Unallocated Client Excess Collateral. The following provisions apply to
FCM Unallocated Client Excess Collateral:
(a)

LCH.Clearnet SA shall hold FCM Unallocated Client Excess Collateral in the FCM
Unallocated Client Collateral Financial Account for the benefit of the applicable
FCM Clearing Member’s FCM Clients as a class, segregated in accordance with
the CEA and CFTC Regulations, including Part 22 of the CFTC Regulations.
LCH.Clearnet SA shall treat and record the FCM Unallocated Client Excess
Collateral on an unallocated basis, in that it shall not attribute any portion thereof
to any individual FCM Client of an FCM Clearing Member.

(b)

Each FCM Clearing Member that maintains any FCM Unallocated Client Excess
Collateral with LCH.Clearnet SA shall ensure that its books and records accurately
reflect at all times the FCM Client or FCM Clients to which the value of such FCM
Unallocated Client Excess Collateral is attributable and the amount attributable to
each such FCM Client.

(c)

LCH.Clearnet SA shall not, at any time, apply any FCM Unallocated Client Excess
Collateral as FCM Client Collateral Buffer or to the relevant FCM House Margin
Account, or to any of such FCM Clearing Member’s FCM Client Financial
Account(s).

(d)

Upon the request of an FCM Clearing Member, in accordance with Section 5 of
the Procedures, LCH.Clearnet SA will return FCM Unallocated Client Excess
Collateral to such FCM Clearing Member. The FCM Clearing Member shall be
deemed to represent to LCH.Clearnet SA, upon making any such request, that
such request complies with the CFTC Regulations and that the returned FCM
Unallocated Client Excess Collateral will remain segregated as and to the extent
required under the CFTC Regulations and the CDS Clearing Rule Book.

(e)

Upon the default of an FCM Clearing Member, any FCM Unallocated Client
Excess Collateral in such FCM Clearing Member’s FCM Unallocated Client
Collateral Financial Account shall be held by LCH.Clearnet SA for the benefit of
such FCM Clearing Member’s FCM Clients in accordance with Part 190 of the
CFTC Regulations and Applicable Law. LCH.Clearnet SA shall not apply any such
FCM Unallocated Client Excess Collateral to the obligations of the FCM Clearing
Member to LCH.Clearnet SA, in respect of its FCM Clients or otherwise, except to

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

167

Published on 14 April 2016

the extent directed by the applicable bankruptcy trustee or Regulatory Body in
accordance with Applicable Law.

Section 6.2.6

Customer Margin Requirements

Article 6.2.6.1
An FCM Clearing Member must collect Collateral from each FCM Client in respect of such FCM
Client’s Open Positions in an amount at least equal to the greater of (i) the amount required by
LCH.SA for the FCM Client Margin Account for such FCM Client, or (ii) such higher amount as
required in Section 2 of the Procedures if the FCM Client’s Open Positions are non-hedging in
nature.

Article 6.2.6.2
No FCM shall permit an FCM Client to withdraw cash, securities or other property from the
Cleared Swaps Customer Account (as that term is defined in CFTC Regulation 22.1) carried by
the FCM Clearing Member for such Client if such withdrawal would cause the account to be
undermargined.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

168

Published on 14 April 2016

CHAPTER 3

Section 6.3.1

- TRANSFER

General

Article 6.3.1.1
Other than in the event that an FCM Clearing Member is a Defaulting Clearing Member, FCM
Cleared Transactions shall not be transferred from one FCM Clearing Member to another FCM
Clearing Member except as provided in this TITLE VI, CHAPTER 3.
Rights under an FCM Cleared Transaction shall not be capable of assignment by an FCM Clearing
Member. Any purported assignment by an FCM Clearing Member or any purported transfer that is
not in compliance this TITLE VI, CHAPTER 3 shall be void.

Section 6.3.2

Full Transfers

Article 6.3.2.1
Upon the instruction of an FCM Client, via a Receiving Clearing Member (as set out in Section 5 of
the Procedures), to transfer all FCM Cleared Transactions attributable to such FCM Client from the
relevant FCM Client Trade Account of a Carrying Clearing Member, LCH.Clearnet SA shall
transfer: (a) all FCM Cleared Transactions registered in the relevant FCM Client Trade Account of
the Carrying Clearing Member on behalf of such FCM Client, as identified to LCH.Clearnet SA by
the Carrying Clearing Member (such transfer to occur by novation of such FCM Cleared
Transactions rather than by closeout and rebooking of new FCM Cleared Transactions); and (b)
upon the request of the Receiving Clearing Member, on behalf of the relevant FCM Client, all
Client Assets (if any) relating to the FCM Cleared Transactions that are being transferred to a
Receiving Clearing Member designated by the FCM Client (as set out in Section 5 of the
Procedures), provided that:
(i)

such FCM Client is solvent (such FCM Client will be presumed to be solvent by
LCH.Clearnet SA unless evidenced to the contrary by the Carrying Clearing Member in the
manner set forth in Section 5 of the Procedures or as otherwise reasonably determined by
LCH.Clearnet SA);

(ii)

neither the Carrying Clearing Member nor the Receiving Clearing Member is a Defaulting
Clearing Member, and no Event has occurred or is occurring with respect to either the
Carrying Clearing Member or the Receiving Clearing Member;

(iii)

the Receiving Clearing Member and Carrying Clearing Member are each FCM Clearing
Members, and the Receiving Clearing Member is in compliance with all obligations
imposed on it as an FCM Clearing Member;

(iv)

the Receiving Clearing Member has consented in writing to such transfer, and has
performed all necessary steps to allow LCH.Clearnet SA to open one FCM Client Trade
Account and one FCM Client Margin Account in respect of the relevant FCM Client in its
FCM Client Account Structure;

(v)

LCH.Clearnet SA has received sufficient Collateral (being the difference between the
Receiving Clearing Member’s FCM Client Margin Requirement in respect of the relevant
FCM Cleared Transactions and the Client Assets that are to be transferred) from the
Receiving Clearing Member in order to enable the transfer; and

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

169

Published on 14 April 2016

(vi)

the FCM Client has satisfied (such satisfaction to be presumed by LCH.Clearnet SA
unless evidenced to the contrary by the Carrying Clearing Member in the manner set forth
in Section 5 of the Procedures or as otherwise reasonably determined by
LCH.Clearnet SA) all outstanding obligations that are due and payable to the Carrying
Clearing Member and its Affiliates, including any increased margin due and payable that
may result from the proposed transfer, unless the Carrying Clearing Member otherwise
consents in writing.

For purposes of (vi) above, with respect to obligations owed to Affiliates of the Carrying Clearing
Member by an FCM Client, “obligations” shall consist only of those obligations that arise as a
result of cross-margining, cross-netting or other similar arrangements with respect to the FCM
Cleared Transactions being transferred or the FCM Client’s related collateral.

Section 6.3.3

Partial Transfers

Article 6.3.3.1
Upon the instruction of an FCM Client via a Receiving Clearing Member (as set out in Section 5 of
the FCM Procedures) to transfer a portion of the FCM Cleared Transactions attributable to such
FCM Client from the relevant FCM Client Trade Account of a Carrying Clearing Member (the
"Porting FCM Cleared Transactions"), LCH.Clearnet SA shall transfer (such transfer to occur by
novation of such Porting FCM Cleared Transactions rather than by closeout and rebooking of new
FCM Cleared Transactions) the Porting FCM Cleared Transactions registered in the name of the
Carrying Clearing Member on behalf of such FCM Client to a Receiving Clearing Member,
designated by the FCM Client as set out in Section 5 of the Procedures, provided that:
(i)

such FCM Client is solvent (such FCM Client will be presumed to be solvent by
LCH.Clearnet SA unless evidenced to the contrary by the Carrying Clearing Member in the
manner set forth in Section 5 of the Procedures or as otherwise reasonably determined by
LCH.Clearnet SA);

(ii)

neither the Carrying Clearing Member nor the Receiving Clearing Member is a Defaulting
Clearing Member, and no Event has occurred or is occurring with respect to either the
Carrying Clearing Member or the Receiving Clearing Member;

(iii)

the Receiving Clearing Member and Carrying Clearing Member are each FCMs, and the
Receiving Clearing Member is in compliance with all obligations imposed on it as an FCM
Clearing Member;

(iv)

the Receiving Clearing Member has consented in writing to such transfer, and has
performed all necessary steps to allow LCH.Clearnet SA to open one FCM Client Trade
Account and one FCM Client Margin Account in respect of the relevant FCM Client in its
Account Structure;

(v)

the Receiving Clearing Member has provided sufficient Collateral to LCH.Clearnet SA in
respect of its current FCM Cleared Transactions and the Porting FCM Cleared
Transactions in order to enable the transfer;

(vi)

the FCM Client has satisfied (such satisfaction to be presumed by LCH.Clearnet SA
unless evidenced to the contrary by the Carrying Clearing Member in the manner set forth
in Section 5 of the Procedures or as otherwise reasonably determined by
LCH.Clearnet SA) all outstanding obligations that are due and payable to the Carrying
Clearing Member and its Affiliates, including any increased margin due and payable that

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

170

Published on 14 April 2016

may result from the proposed transfer, unless the Carrying Clearing Member otherwise
consents in writing; and
(vii)

in the event that the transfer will lead to an increased cover requirement from the Carrying
Clearing Member to LCH.Clearnet SA, the Carrying Clearing Member provides sufficient
Collateral to LCH.Clearnet SA in respect of such increased cover requirement.

For purposes of (vi) above, with respect to obligations owed to Affiliates of the Carrying Clearing
Member by an FCM Client, “obligations” shall consist only of those obligations that arise as a
result of cross-margining, cross-netting or other similar arrangements with respect to the FCM
Cleared Transactions being transferred or the FCM Client’s related collateral.

Section 6.3.4

Transfer of Client Assets

Article 6.3.4.1
Upon request from LCH.Clearnet SA, and in order to facilitate a transfer pursuant to Article 6.3.2.1,
the Carrying Clearing Member shall notify LCH.Clearnet SA of the Client Assets which are
attributable to the transferring FCM Client and, along with the Receiving Clearing Member, shall
take such actions and provide such information to LCH.Clearnet SA in connection with the transfer
as may be required by LCH.Clearnet SA. In the event that the Carrying Clearing Member fails to
notify LCH.Clearnet SA of the Client Assets that are attributable to the relevant FCM Client,
LCH.Clearnet SA shall transfer such Collateral from the Carrying Clearing Member's FCM Client
Collateral Account to the Receiving Clearing Member’s FCM Client Collateral Account as it deems
appropriate and as set out in Section 5 of the Procedures.
Article 6.3.4.2
Once LCH.Clearnet SA has notified the Receiving Clearing Member of the Client Assets which are
to be transferred in accordance with Article 6.3.2.1, the Receiving Clearing Member may elect to
reject the transfer of some or all of the Client Assets. Any such election will not prevent the transfer
of the relevant FCM Cleared Transactions and any related Client Assets which have been
accepted by the Receiving Clearing Member, provided that the conditions set out in subparagraphs (i) to (vi) of Article 6.3.2.1‎are satisfied in relation to such transfer.

Section 6.3.5

Transfer process

Article 6.3.5.1
(i)

By notifying LCH.Clearnet SA of a request to accept a transfer of some or all of the FCM
Cleared Transactions of an FCM Client, and the related Client Assets if applicable,
pursuant to Article 6.3.2.1 or 6.3.3.1, the Receiving Clearing Member shall be deemed to
have represented to LCH.Clearnet SA that all of the conditions set forth herein and in
Section 5 of the Procedures to the transfer of the account of the FCM Client have been
satisfied. Upon receipt of such transfer instructions, and provided that it does not
determine, in its sole discretion, that the transfer cannot be effected under this CDS
Clearing Rule Book, LCH.Clearnet SA shall transfer the FCM Cleared Transaction(s) into
the relevant FCM Client Trade Account of the Receiving Clearing Member.

(ii)

In the case where a transfer of FCM Cleared Transactions pursuant to Article 6.3.2.1 will
include the transfer of the related Client Assets:

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

171

Published on 14 April 2016

(1)

In respect of Client Assets comprising Cash Collateral, such transfer shall be
effected as follows:
(A)

the Carrying Clearing Member shall relinquish all rights to such Client
Assets (including, for the avoidance of doubt, any beneficial interest
and/or equity of redemption in respect thereof);

(B)

such Client Assets shall immediately upon such relinquishment be held by
LCH.Clearnet SA on behalf of the Receiving Clearing Member; and

(C)

the Receiving Clearing Member’s rights to such Client Assets arising as
described in paragraph (B) above shall become, in respect of the relevant
FCM Cleared Transactions, subject to the title transfer security
arrangements entered into between the Receiving Clearing Member and
LCH.Clearnet SA in relation to the provision of cover.

(2) In respect of Client Assets that are subject to the security interest granted by the
Receiving Clearing Member pursuant to Regulation 5 of the FCM CDS Clearing
Regulations, such transfer shall be effected in accordance with Section 3 of the
Procedures.
(iii)

For the avoidance of doubt, the Carrying Clearing Member shall have no right or
entitlement to assert any claim over, or right with respect to, the Client Assets transferred.

(iv)

The transfer of the FCM Cleared Transactions and related Client Assets shall be deemed
to occur simultaneously, and the transfer of the FCM Cleared Transactions shall be
conditioned on the transfer of the related Client Assets, and vice versa.

(v)

If the transfer of all of such FCM Cleared Transactions and related Client Assets is not
completed for any reason, then any actual transfer of Client Assets or FCM Cleared
Transactions that has occurred, as the case may be, shall be deemed void, and any actual
transfer of Client Assets or FCM Cleared Transactions that has occurred shall be
immediately unwound.

Article 6.3.5.2
In making any transfer of FCM Cleared Transactions and Client Assets pursuant to this TITLE VI,
Chapter 3, LCH.Clearnet SA shall be authorized and entitled to rely conclusively on the
instructions of and information provided by the relevant FCM Clearing Member(s), which shall be
solely responsible for all such instructions and information, including ensuring that the transfer is
properly authorised and that the appropriate FCM Client Trade Account, FCM Client Margin
Account, FCM Cleared Transactions and Client Assets have been identified.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

172

Published on 14 April 2016

CHAPTER 4 – LIQUIDATION EVENT
Article 6.4.1.1
If at any time a liquidation date, howsoever described in the relevant clearing agreement or
addendum to an existing agreement between an FCM Clearing Member and its FCM Client
relating, in whole or in part, to clearing of CDS through the CDS Clearing Service, occurs in
respect of one or more of the FCM Cleared Transaction(s) carried by an FCM Clearing Member for
the account of an FCM Client and, at the time of such liquidation date, the relevant FCM Clearing
Member is not a Defaulting Clearing Member, the relevant FCM Clearing Member may instruct
LCH.Clearnet SA to transfer the relevant Client Cleared Transactions from the relevant FCM Client
Trade Account to its FCM House Trade Account, in accordance with this TITLE VI, Chapter 4 and
the Procedures.
Article 6.4.1.2
Subject to Article 6.4.1.3 below, LCH.Clearnet SA will arrange a transfer of the relevant Client
Cleared Transactions as soon as reasonably practicable (and usually within 24 hours of receipt of
the documents listed in paragraphs (i) to (iii) of Article 6.4.1.3 below).
Article 6.4.1.3
A transfer pursuant to this Article 6.4.1.3 will be subject to the receipt by LCH.Clearnet SA of the
following:
(i)

a copy of the notice from the relevant FCM Clearing Member to the relevant FCM Client
designating the relevant liquidation date, or if such liquidation date has occurred
automatically, evidence of the relevant event of default or liquidation event having
occurred;

(ii)

a copy of the notice served by the relevant FCM Clearing Member on the relevant FCM
Client alerting that FCM Client of its intention to request a transfer of the relevant Client
Cleared Transactions attributable to the FCM Client pursuant to this TITLE VI, Chapter 4;
and

(iii)

an indemnity from the relevant FCM Clearing Member in a form suitable to LCH.Clearnet
SA to cover any losses, costs or expenses incurred by LCH.Clearnet SA in connection with
the transfer.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

173

Published on 14 April 2016

APPENDIX 1
CDS DEFAULT MANAGEMENT PROCESS
1

Interpretation
Capitalised terms used in this Appendix 1, which sets out the CDS Default Management Process,
and not otherwise defined in Clause 1.1, shall have the meaning given in Section 1.1.1 of the
CDS Clearing Rule Book, as may be amended from time to time.
1.1

Definitions

“Adjusted Loss Distribution Cap Amount” means, in respect of any Non-Defaulting Clearing
Member, such amount as agreed between that Non-Defaulting Clearing Member and
LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to Clause 7.3;
"Auction Non Bidder Bid Size" means for each Auction Package (including any Residual
Auction Package) and each Non Bidder, the Non Bidder’s Minimum Bid Size (or Recalculated
Minimum Bid Size for any Residual Auction Package) minus the aggregate Bid Size of the
Market Bids submitted by the Non Bidder for the Auction Package, or Residual Auction Package
as the case may be;
"Auction Non Bidder Fraction" is for each Non Bidder and each Auction Package, or Residual
Auction Package as the case may be, the ratio of the Auction Non Bidder Bid Size to the
member’s Minimum Bid Size (or Recalculated Minimum Bid Size for any Residual Auction
Package);
"Auction Package" means a portfolio of Auction Transactions reflecting one or more Cleared
Transactions registered in the name of the Defaulting Clearing Member, together with any
connected hedging trades that have been concluded by LCH.Clearnet SA through Hedging;
"Auction Package Weight" is for each Auction Package the ratio of the Initial Margin of the
said Auction Package to the aggregate of Initial Margin across all Auction Packages. For the
purposes of the foregoing, if for an Auction Package there is a Residual Auction Package which
is subject to a second round of Competitive Bidding, the Auction Package Weight shall be
divided as between the Reduced Auction Package and the Residual Auction Package on a pro
rata basis by reference to the percentage of the Auction Package that is subject to the Residual
Auction Package;
"Auction Participant" means each Non-Defaulting Clearing Member or, acting in the place of a
Non-Defaulting Clearing Member, an affiliated Clearing Member or alternatively, a non-clearing
member Affiliate that clears through the Clearing Member, or an LCH Approved Outsourcing
Agent of such Non-Defaulting Clearing Member, in any case which LCH.Clearnet SA has
previously determined is capable of successfully participating in the CDS Default Management
Process in accordance with Article 2.2.1.1(xi);
"Auction Portfolio" means all the House Cleared Transactions of a Defaulting Clearing
Member and/or the Non-Ported Cleared Transactions attributable to such Defaulting Clearing
Member together with any connected hedging trades that have been concluded by
LCH.Clearnet SA through Hedging;
"Auction Transactions" means the transactions making up an Auction Package;

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

174

Published on 14 April 2016

"Available CDS Funds" means the amount of resources available to LCH.Clearnet SA as
calculated in accordance with Clause 8.4;
"Available Resources" means, in respect of any Loss Distribution Period, the amounts
available to LCH.Clearnet SA for application in meeting any Damage suffered or incurred by
LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with sub-paragraphs (i) to (vi) (inclusive) of Article 4.3.3.1 of
the CDS Clearing Rule Book as at the relevant Last Call prior to Default;
"Bid" means a bid submitted to LCH.Clearnet SA by an Auction Participant as part of
Competitive Bidding;
"Bid Credit" has the meaning set out in Clause 5.9(i);
"Bid Deadline" means the time by which Bids must be submitted in any Competitive Bidding;
"Bid Price" means the price submitted to LCH.Clearnet SA by an Auction Participant
representing the nominal price that an Auction Participant would either:
(i)

pay to LCH.Clearnet SA; or

(ii)

require LCH.Clearnet SA to pay to it,

in each case in order to accept the registration of the Auction Transactions reflecting the Auction
Package;
"Bid Size" means, for any Bid, the specified percentage of the Auction Package or the Residual
Auction Package, as the case may be, as set out by an Auction Participant;
"Cash Gain" means, in respect of any Cash Gainer and any Loss Distribution Day, the amount
of positive Cumulative Hypothetical Gains, Losses and Realised Cash Flows in respect of such
Cash Gainer in respect of such Loss Distribution Day;
"Cash Gainer" means each Margin Account in respect of which the Cumulative Hypothetical
Gains, Losses and Realised Cash Flows in respect of such Loss Distribution Day is greater
than zero;
“Cash Gainer Adjustment” has the meaning set out in Clause 7.1.1;
"Cash Loser" means each Margin Account in respect of which the Cumulative Hypothetical
Gains, Losses and Realised Cash Flows in respect of such Loss Distribution Day is equal to or
less than zero;
“Cash Loser Adjustment” has the meaning set out in Clause 7.1.2;
"CDS Default Management Guidance Manual" means the detailed guidance manual
developed by LCH.Clearnet SA, in consultation with the CDS Default Management Committee,
setting out guidance for the CDS Default Management Group on the conduct of the Default
Management Process in accordance with the principles set out in the CDS Default
Management Process;
"CDS Repayment Amount" means the Negative CDS Repayment Amounts and the Positive
CDS Repayment Amounts;
"Clearing Member Adjustment Amount" means, in respect of the Margin Account(s) of any
Non-Defaulting Clearing Member and any Loss Distribution Day, an amount equal to the sum of
the Cumulative Hypothetical Gains, Losses and Realised Cash Flows in respect of such Margin
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

175

Published on 14 April 2016

Account(s) of such Clearing Member less the sum of the Cumulative Actual Gains, Losses and
Realised Cash Flows in respect of such Margin Account(s) of such Clearing Member, in each
case in respect of the Loss Distribution Period in which such Loss Distribution Day falls,
provided that the calculations shall be conducted separately for House Margin Account(s) and
Client Margin Account(s);
"Client LCH Repayment Amount" has the meaning set out in Clause ‎8.5.
"Competitive Bidding" means the competitive auction process in which Auction Participants
submit Bids for Auction Package(s), described in Clause 5 of the CDS Default Management
Process, as may be supplemented, from time to time, by the CDS Default Management
Guidance Manual;
"Confidential Material" means data (including but not limited to portfolio data) and documents,
which are not in the public domain and which are disclosed to a Clearing Member, its
associated companies and advisers, or to which a Clearing Member obtains or otherwise has
access as a result of participation in the Default Management Process as a member of the CDS
Default Management Group (which, for the avoidance of doubt, does not include any
information, data, or documents provided to LCH.Clearnet SA by the Clearing Member);
"Cumulative Actual Gains, Losses and Realised Cash Flows" means, in respect of each
Margin Account of each Non-Defaulting Clearing Member and any Business Day, the
aggregate amount, if any, paid by LCH.Clearnet SA to such Clearing Member (expressed as a
positive number) or by such Clearing Member to LCH.Clearnet SA (expressed as a negative
number) in respect of such Margin Account by way of Product Cash Payments, Variation Margin
and Margin Account Adjustment from but excluding the relevant Last Call prior to Default to and
including such Business Day;
"Cumulative Hypothetical Gains, Losses and Realised Cash Flows" means, in respect of
each Margin Account of each Non-Defaulting Clearing Member and any Business Day, the sum
of the Pre Haircut Gains, Losses and Realised Cash Flows for such Margin Account for each
day from but excluding the relevant Last Call prior to Default to and including such Business
Day;
“Cumulative LCH Transfer Cost” means, on any Business Day during any Loss Distribution
Period, the sum of any LCH Transfer Cost for each day from but excluding the relevant Last
Call prior to Default to and including such Business Day;
"Discounted CDS Repayment Amount" means the amount determined in relation to a
Positive CDS Repayment Amount in accordance with Clause 7.4;
"Distribution Haircut" or "DH" means, on each Loss Distribution Day, the fraction determined
by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with the following formula:
DH(t) = LUL(t)/TCH(t)
where:
"LUL" means the LCH Uncovered Loss; and
"TCH" means the Total Cumulative Hypothetical Gains, Losses and Realised Cash Flows;
"DMG Member" means a Clearing Member representative within the CDS Default Management
Group;
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

176

Published on 14 April 2016

"DMG Representatives" has the meaning set out in Clause 11.2.2 ;
"DMG Rotation Plan" has the meaning set out in Clause 11.2.2;
"DMG Term" has the meaning set out in Clause 11.2.2;
"Early Termination Trigger Date" means the date specified in Clause 8.1;
"Hedging" means the process of reducing the market risk associated with a Defaulting Clearing
Member’s obligations to LCH.Clearnet SA under Cleared Transactions by reducing the
exposure prior to Competitive Bidding, as described in Clause 2.1.1 below;
"House LCH Repayment Amount" has the meaning set out in Clause ‎8.5.
"Information Barrier" means an information barrier established within the different divisions of
a Clearing Member to avoid any conflict of interest;
"Initial Allocation Price" means the price at which the entire Auction Package (subject to
adjustment pursuant to Clause 5.6.3 (i)) is allocated in accordance with Clauses 5.6.2 and
5.8.1;
"Initial Transfer Payable" means the amount an Auction Participant or a Non Bidder, as
appropriate, must pay to LCH.Clearnet SA in order to accept the registration of Auction
Transactions reflecting the aggregate Bid Size(s) of its Initial Winning Bid(s), as determined in
accordance with Clause 5.6.1(iii) or 5.6.3 (iii), as the case may be;
"Initial Transfer Receivable" means the amount an Auction Participant or a Non Bidder, as
appropriate, must receive from LCH.Clearnet SA in order to accept the registration of Auction
Transactions reflecting the aggregate Bid Size(s) of its Initial Winning Bid(s), as determined in
accordance with Clause 5.6.1(iii) or 5.6.3 (iii), as the case may be;
"Initial Winning Bid" means a Bid (or part thereof) which has been allocated against the
Auction Package at the Initial Allocation Price or at the Non Bidder Allocation Price pursuant to
Clause 5.6.1 or 5.6.3, as may be amended in accordance with Clause 5.8.1 if appropriate;
"Initial Winning Bidder" means an Auction Participant or Non Bidder, as the case may be,
holding an Initial Winning Bid who is notified of this pursuant to Clause 5.6.4;
"Invoice Back" means the process by which a Cleared Transaction of the same CDS Type is
created by LCH.Clearnet SA with the role of CDS Buyer and CDS Seller reversed and, at
LCH.Clearnet SA’s discretion, a different price or premium and other terms as are determined
by LCH.Clearnet SA applied. The term "Invoicing Back" and other similar expressions shall be
construed accordingly;

means the most recent Business Day on which
payments of Margin required to be made by Clearing Members were made in
full;
"Last Call prior to Default"

"LCH Repayment Amount" means the amount payable to LCH.Clearnet SA by a Clearing
Member or by a Clearing Member to LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Clause 8.5;
"LCH Transfer Cost" means the cost to LCH.Clearnet SA of registering all Auction
Transactions making up the Auction Package within the Account Structure of one or more
Auction Participants following the conclusion of Competitive Bidding;

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

177

Published on 14 April 2016

"LCH Transfer Receipt" means the amount to be received by LCH.Clearnet SA for registering
all Auction Transactions making up the Auction Package within the Account Structure of one or
more Auction Participants following the conclusion of Competitive Bidding;
"LCH Uncovered Loss" means, in respect of LCH.Clearnet SA on any Business Day in any
Loss Distribution Period, the amount calculated in accordance with the following formula:
LCH Uncovered Loss(t) = Max (0, (TCPH(t) + CLC(t) - AR))
where:
"TCPH" means the Total Cumulative Pre Haircut Gains, Losses and Realised Cash Flows;
"CLC" means the Cumulative LCH Transfer Cost;
"AR" means the Available Resources; and
the LCH Uncovered Loss as at the Last Call prior to Default shall be zero;
"Loss Distribution Cap Amount" means, in respect of any Non-Defaulting Clearing Member
and any Loss Distribution Period, an amount equal to:
(i)

the higher of (A) EUR 100,000,000; (B) the product of (1) 100 per cent. and (2) the
Contribution Requirement of such Non-Defaulting Clearing Member as at the last
revaluation date prior to the declaration of the Event of Default at the beginning of that
Loss Distribution Period in accordance with Article 4.4.1.5 and Article 4.4.1.6 and
ignoring any increase pursuant to Article 4.4.1.8; and (C) its Adjusted Loss Distribution
Cap Amount; minus

(ii)

the net amount of any Margin Account Adjustment paid and/or received by such
Clearing Member to LCH.Clearnet SA with respect to each Margin Account of such
Clearing Member as a result of the application of the Loss Distribution Process in any
previous Loss Distribution Period the first day of which falls within the same CDS PostDefault Period as such Loss Distribution Period (but, for the avoidance of doubt,
excluding any Loss Distribution Period the first day of which falls within a different CDS
Post-Default Period),

or such other cap as may be agreed from time to time between LCH.Clearnet SA and the Risk
Committee provided that the relevant percentage specified in (i)(B)(1) above shall not be
greater than 100% and further provided that no such amendment to the definition of the Loss
Distribution Cap Amount shall be made during any CDS Post-Default Period relating to such
Loss Distribution Period;
“Loss Distribution Day” means any Business Day in a Loss Distribution Period on which
LCH.Clearnet SA, in consultation with the CDS Default Management Group, prior to calling for
Collateral in respect of each Clearing Member’s Margin Requirement in accordance with the
provisions of Section 3 of the Procedures on such Business Day, determines that the LCH
Uncovered Loss for that Business Day is greater than zero;
"Loss Distribution Period” means the period from, but excluding, the day on which an Event
of Default is declared with respect to any Clearing Member pursuant to Article 4.3.1.2 to but
excluding the earlier of (i) the Clearing Day on which the Transfer Positions relating to any
Auction Package(s) in connection with that Defaulting Clearing Member, or, if any Event of
Default is declared pursuant to Article 4.3.1.2 with respect to any other Clearing Member prior
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

178

Published on 14 April 2016

to the end of a Loss Distribution Period, any subsequent Defaulting Clearing Member, have
been registered in the Account Structure of the relevant Auction Participants and all payments
required to be made by such Auction Participants and/or LCH.Clearnet SA have been made in
full; (ii) any Loss Distribution Day in respect of which LCH.Clearnet SA determines that the
Clearing Member Adjustment Amount for any Clearing Member would be equal to or greater
than the Loss Distribution Cap Amount for such Loss Distribution Day; or (iii) the Business Day
on which LCH.Clearnet SA determines that it does not have sufficient financial resources
available to make all payments required pursuant to Clause 5.10;
“Margin Account Adjustment” means, in respect of each Margin Account and any Business
Day, any Cash Gainer Adjustment or Cash Loser Adjustment as the case may be payable in
connection with such Margin Account on such Business Day;
"Margin Repayment Amount" has the meaning set out in Clause 8.5;
"Market Bid" means any Bid which satisfies the Market Bid Metric and any other Bid which
LCH.Clearnet SA has determined not to be a Non Market Bid;
"Market Bid Metric" is satisfied by a Bid where:
(i)

in respect of a Bid for an Auction Package for which there will be an LCH Transfer Cost,
the Bid Price is equal to or less than the aggregate of: (i) the Relevant Pro Rata Share
of the Initial Allocation Price or Residual Allocation Price, as the case may be, and (ii)
the Relevant Pro Rata Share of two times the Initial Margin calculated for the Auction
Package on the basis of the Initial Allocation Price or Residual Allocation Price, as the
case may be; and

(ii)

in respect of a Bid for an Auction Package for which there will be an LCH Transfer
Receipt, the Bid Price is equal to or more than the difference between: (i) the Relevant
Pro Rata Share of the Initial Allocation Price or Residual Allocation Price, as the case
may be, and (ii) the Relevant Pro Rata Share of two times the Initial Margin calculated
for the Auction Package on the basis of the Initial Allocation Price or Residual Allocation
Price, as the case may be,

where "Relevant Pro Rata Share" means the percentage of the Bid Size for that Bid compared
to Bid Size of the Auction Package as a whole;
"Minimum Bid Size" has the meaning set out in Clause 5.4.4;
"Minimum Bid Size Denominator" means 1.25 or such other amount as may be determined
by LCH.Clearnet SA, in consultation with the CDS Default Management Group;
"Negative CDS Repayment Amounts" means the negative single net sum determined in
respect of the House Account Structure and each Client Account Structure of a Clearing
Member in accordance with Clause 8.2;
"Nominated Representative" means an LCH.Clearnet SA representative who is nominated by
the CDS Default Management Group to receive Bids in Competitive Bidding, subject that if no
one individual is nominated, any of the LCH.Clearnet SA representatives on the CDS Default
Management Group;
"Non Bidder" means an Auction Participant who does not submit Market Bid(s) in an amount
equal to its Minimum Bid Size by the Bid Deadline (and the expiration of any grace period
granted by LCH.Clearnet SA, in consultation with the CDS Default Management Group,
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

179

Published on 14 April 2016

pursuant to Clause 5.4.3) provided that such Auction Participant is required to bid for the
relevant Auction Package(s) in accordance with Clause 5.4.1;
"Non Bidder Allocation Price" means the price at which Auction Transactions are allocated to
Non Bidders in accordance with Clauses 5.6.3 and 5.8.1;
"Non Market Bid" means a Bid which LCH.Clearnet SA, having consulted with the CDS Default
Management Group, has determined, in its sole discretion, has been submitted at a Bid Price
which does not satisfy the Market Bid Metric (unless LCH.Clearnet SA determines otherwise in
accordance with Clause 5.4.8) in respect of the relevant Auction Package subject that, if an
Auction Participant has submitted Market Bid(s) in respect of an Auction Package which, in
aggregate, equal or are in excess of its Minimum Bid Size, LCH.Clearnet SA shall not be
entitled to classify such Auction Participant as a Non Bidder in respect of other Bid(s) submitted
for the same Auction Package which could otherwise be classified as Non Market Bid(s);
"Permitted Purpose" means the proper fulfilment by the Clearing Member of its duties under
the CDS Default Management Process and includes, after the completion of Competitive
Bidding, the use by the Clearing Member, its associated companies and advisers (to be
determined by it at its discretion) of any data or documents related to Transfer Positions
allocated to it by LCH.Clearnet SA, for the purposes of its own ongoing portfolio management
and to enable it to comply with ongoing legal or regulatory requirements;
"Positive CDS Repayment Amounts" means the positive single net sum determined in
respect of the House Account Structure and each Client Account Structure of a Clearing
Member in accordance with Clause 8.2;
"Pre Haircut Gains, Losses and Realised Cash Flows" means, in respect of each Margin
Account of each Non-Defaulting Clearing Member and any Business Day, the amount which
would be paid by LCH.Clearnet SA to such Clearing Member (expressed as a positive number)
or by such Clearing Member to LCH.Clearnet SA (expressed as a negative number) by way of
Product Cash Payments or Variation Margin in respect of such Margin Account on such
Business Day in the absence of the application of the Distribution Haircut;
"Product Cash Payments" means, in respect of each Margin Account and any Clearing Day,
any Fixed Amounts, Initial Payment Amounts, Auction Settlement Amounts or any Cash
Settlement Amounts (as defined for the purpose of the applicable Cleared Transaction)
connected to such Margin Account on such Clearing Day;
"Recalculated Minimum Bid Size" means, for each Auction Participant, the minimum
percentage of the Residual Auction Portfolio, calculated in accordance with Clause 5.9.1, for
which an Auction Participant is required to submit Bid(s);
"Reduced Auction Package" means the portion of the Auction Package that is not the
Residual Auction Package;
"Residual Allocation Price" means the Bid Price of the Bid(s) at which the Residual Auction
Package is allocated in accordance with Clause 5.6.2, pursuant to Clause 5.9;
"Residual Auction Package" means the portion of the Auction Package that LCH.Clearnet SA,
in consultation with the CDS Default Management Group, determines should be the subject of a
second round of Competitive Bidding in accordance with Clause 5.7.1;

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

180

Published on 14 April 2016

"Residual Transfer Payable" means the amount an Auction Participant or Non Bidder, as
appropriate, must pay to LCH.Clearnet SA in order to accept the registration of Auction
Transactions reflecting the aggregate Bid Size(s) of its Residual Winning Bid(s), as determined
in accordance with Clause 5.6.1(iii) or 5.6.3 (iii), as the case may be, pursuant to Clause 5.9;
"Residual Transfer Receivable" means the amount an Auction Participant or Non Bidder, as
appropriate, must receive from LCH.Clearnet SA in order to accept the registration of Auction
Transactions reflecting the aggregate Bid Size(s) of its Residual Winning Bid(s), as determined
in accordance with Clause 5.6.1(iii) or 5.6.3 (iii), as the case may be, pursuant to Clause 5.9;
"Residual Winning Bid" means a Bid (or part thereof) which has been allocated against the
Residual Auction Package at the Residual Allocation Price or at the Non Bidder Allocation Price
pursuant to Clause 5.6.1 or 5.6.3, pursuant to Clause 5.9;
"Residual Winning Bidder" means an Auction Participant or Non Bidder, as the case may be,
holding a Residual Winning Bid who is notified of this pursuant to Clause 5.9.3;
"t" means, in respect of any determination made in relation to a Business Day, such Business
Day;
"t-1" means, in respect of any determination made in relation to a Business Day, the Business
Day immediately prior to such Business Day;
"Total Cumulative Hypothetical Gains, Losses and Realised Cash Flows" means, in
respect of any Business Day, the sum of the Cash Gain in respect of all Cash Gainers on such
Business Day;
"Total Pre Haircut Gains, Losses and Realised Cash Flows" means, in respect of any
Business Day, the sum of the Pre Haircut Gains, Losses and Realised Cash Flows in respect of
all Margin Accounts of all Non-Defaulting Clearing Members on such Business Day;
"Total Cumulative Pre Haircut Gains, Losses and Realised Cash Flows" means, in respect
of any Business Day, the sum of the Total Pre Haircut Gains, Losses and Realised Cash Flows
for each Business Day from but excluding the relevant Last Call prior to Default to and including
such Business Day;
"Total Non Bidder Fraction" is for a Non-Defaulting Clearing Member, who is a Non Bidder for
one or more Auction Packages, the sum across all Auction Packages of the product of the
Auction Package Weight and the Non Bidder’s Auction Non Bidder Fraction for that NonDefaulting Clearing Member;
"Transaction Categories" mean the different categories of Cleared Transactions, being:
(i)

Index Cleared Transactions together with the relevant off-setting Single Name
Cleared Transactions;

(ii)

residual Index Cleared Transactions; and

(iii)

residual Single Name Cleared Transactions;

"Transfer Positions" means the positions allocated to an Auction Participant pursuant to
Clauses 5.6.2 and 5.8.1, if applicable;
"Winning Bid" means any Initial Winning Bid and/or any Residual Winning Bid; and
"Winning Bidder" means either an Initial Winning Bidder or a Residual Winning Bidder.
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

181

Published on 14 April 2016

1.2

Singular, plural, gender

References to one gender include all genders and references to the singular include the plural
and vice versa.
1.3

Headings

Headings shall be ignored in interpreting the CDS Default Management Process.
1.4

Annexes etc.

References to the CDS Default Management Process shall be to this Appendix 1 and shall
include any Recitals and Annexes to this Appendix 1 and references to Clauses and Annexes
are to Clauses of, and Annexes to, this Appendix 1. References to paragraphs are to
paragraphs of the Annexes.

2

CDS Default Management Process
2.1

The CDS Default Management Process

Subject to the CDS Client Clearing DMP, the CDS Default Management Process shall involve
the following stages (notwithstanding any other tasks that LCH.Clearnet SA is required to
perform following the declaration of an Event of Default), each of which shall be completed to
the satisfaction of the CDS Default Management Group. It is intended that these stages will be:
(i) commenced as soon as possible after LCH.Clearnet SA has declared an Event of Default to
be occurring in respect of a Clearing Member in accordance with Article 4.3.1.2 (which shall
ordinarily be within 2 hours); and (ii) completed as soon as possible in the context of the
relevant Event of Default and, in any event, no later than 5 Clearing Days following
commencement.
2.1.1

Hedging

LCH.Clearnet SA will, in consultation with and with the assistance of the CDS Default
Management Group, reduce the market risk associated with a Defaulting Clearing Member’s
obligations to LCH.Clearnet SA so far as is reasonably practicable by hedging LCH.Clearnet
SA’s exposure in respect of the Defaulting Clearing Member’s Cleared Transactions. The
aim of Hedging will be to reduce market exposure so as to minimise the Initial Margin
required, in respect of the Defaulting Clearing Member’s Cleared Transactions, as much as
possible within the time allotted, once LCH.Clearnet SA has declared an Event of Default in
accordance with Article 4.3.1.2.
All Hedging shall be undertaken by LCH.Clearnet SA with Non-Defaulting Clearing
Members, on the basis of separate agreements between LCH.Clearnet SA and each such
Non-Defaulting Clearing Member. The Non-Defaulting Clearing Members commit to
participate in Hedging on a collaborative basis with LCH.Clearnet SA.
2.1.2

Competitive Auction

LCH.Clearnet SA shall then auction the Auction Package(s) to Auction Participants through
Competitive Bidding. LCH.Clearnet SA, in consultation with the CDS Default Management
Group, shall be entitled to prescribe supplementary procedures for conduct of Competitive
Bidding within the CDS Default Management Guidance Manual as it considers reasonably
appropriate from time to time, but always with the aim of encouraging and rewarding
participation in Competitive Bidding in line with the principles laid down in the CDS Default
Management Process.
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

182

Published on 14 April 2016

2.1.3

Loss Distribution Process

In the event that LCH.Clearnet SA determines during a Loss Distribution Period that it has
an LCH Uncovered Loss, LCH.Clearnet SA shall be permitted to invoke the Loss
Distribution Process as set out in Clause 7.
2.1.4

Early Termination

In the event LCH.Clearnet SA determines that it no longer has sufficient resources pursuant
to Clause 8.1, the provisions of Clause 8 will apply and LCH.Clearnet SA and each Clearing
Member agree to be bound by such provision.
2.1.5

LCH Default

If at any stage during the operation of the CDS Default Management Process, LCH.Clearnet
SA is subject to an LCH Default, the provisions of TITLE I, Chapter 3 shall prevail with
respect to the Cleared Transactions registered in the Account Structure of the NonDefaulting Clearing Members.
2.2

Status of the CDS Default Management Process

The CDS Default Management Process is the definitive process for default management in
respect of Cleared Transactions and is specified as such in Article 4.3.2.2. In the event of any
inconsistency between the CDS Default Management Process and the remainder of the CDS
Clearing Documentation, the CDS Default Management Process will prevail.
2.3

LCH.Clearnet SA’s financial resources

The financial resources available to LCH.Clearnet SA, and their order of use, are set out in
Article 4.3.3.1.
2.4

CDS Default Management Guidance Manual

LCH.Clearnet SA may from time to time supplement the details of the stages set out in Clause
2.1, or any other aspects of the CDS Default Management Process or CDS Client Clearing
DMP, in consultation with the CDS Default Management Committee either by way of updating
the CDS Default Management Guidance Manual or immediately upon notice to Clearing
Members on a case-by-case basis where LCH.Clearnet SA deems it appropriate to do so in the
circumstances of a particular Event of Default, provided that LCH.Clearnet SA may not take any
such action that effects a material change to the CDS Default Management Process or CDS
Client Clearing DMP unless it complies with the procedures set out in Article 1.2.2.7, as
applicable.

3

Obligations and Undertakings
3.1

Continuing obligations

The Clearing Member and, as applicable, any non-clearing member Auction Participant, shall:
3.1.1

be bound by and act in accordance with the CDS Default Management Process, to the
extent required by LCH.Clearnet SA;

3.1.2

enter Bid(s) for Auction Package(s) as part of, and in accordance with the provisions
relating to, Competitive Bidding; and

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

183

Published on 14 April 2016

3.1.3

3.2

take all steps and execute all documents necessary or desirable to comply with its
obligations as a Clearing Member or Auction Participant arising out of the CDS Default
Management Process.
Sole procedure

LCH.Clearnet SA agrees that:
3.2.1

porting or liquidation of Client Cleared Transactions pursuant to the CDS Client
Clearing DMP where applicable, Competitive Bidding, as preceded by Hedging, shall
be the only permitted method by which LCH.Clearnet SA shall offload the risk
associated with the Defaulting Clearing Member’s Cleared Transactions;

3.2.2

it shall not, under any circumstances, be permitted to invoke a non-competitive
allocation procedure or Invoicing Back in respect of the Defaulting Clearing Member’s
Cleared Transactions; and

3.2.3

notwithstanding the application of the Loss Distribution Process set out in Clause 7,
and absent the provisions of Clause 8 applying, it shall not be permitted to pay to
Auction Participants an amount less than the Initial Transfer Receivable or the Residual
Transfer Receivable for each such Auction Participant.

3.3

FCM Clearing Members

LCH.Clearnet SA and Clearing Members agree that, where an Event of Default as defined in
Article 4.3.1.1 (v) or (vi) has been declared in respect of an FCM Clearing Member in
accordance with the CDS Clearing Rule Book, this CDS Default Management Process shall be
carried out:

4

3.3.1

in accordance with Regulation 4 of the FCM CDS Clearing Regulations, applicable US
law and regulation (including but not limited to the requirements of the CEA, CFTC
Regulations and applicable bankruptcy laws regarding the liquidation or transfer of
FCM Cleared Transactions) and any directions issued by a Regulatory Body and/or a
duly appointed trustee for the liquidation of the Defaulting FCM Clearing Member; and

3.3.2

in a manner that ensures the segregation of Client Assets attributable to FCM Cleared
Transactions cleared on behalf of FCM Clients as is required by the CEA and CFTC
Regulations, in accordance with Regulation 6 of the FCM CDS Clearing Regulations.

CDS Client Clearing Default Management Process
4.1

Scope

The CDS Client Clearing DMP in respect of any Relevant Client Cleared Transactions of the
Defaulting Clearing Member shall involve the stages set out in this Clause 4. For the purposes
of this Clause 4, a Relevant Client Cleared Transaction will be included in an Auction Package
from such time as LCH.Clearnet SA determines that such Relevant Client Cleared Transaction
will not be ported. For the avoidance of doubt, any such Auction Package will only contain NonPorted Cleared Transactions. LCH.Clearnet SA shall not be entitled to include Non-Ported
Cleared Transactions and House Cleared Transactions of the Defaulting Clearing Member in a
single Auction Package pursuant to this Clause 4.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

184

Published on 14 April 2016

4.2

Stages

If a Clearing Member becomes a Defaulting Clearing Member, LCH.Clearnet SA shall:
4.2.1

return any CCM Unallocated Client Collateral or FCM Unallocated Client Excess
Collateral (as applicable) to the Defaulting Clearing Member in accordance with Article
4.3.2.4;

4.2.2

determine whether any Client Collateral Buffer has been allocated to (I) if the Defaulting
Clearing Member is a CCM, a particular CCM Client Account Structure or (II) if the
Defaulting Clearing Member is an FCM Clearing Member, a particular FCM Client
Margin Account in accordance with Article 4.2.2.4 and Section 2 of the Procedures and,
to the extent it has:
(i)

if the Defaulting Clearing Member is a CCM, transfer an amount of Collateral
which is equal to the CCM Allocated Client Collateral Buffer for the relevant CCM
Client Account Structure from the Buffer Collateral Account to the relevant CCM
Client Collateral Account; or

(ii)

if the Defaulting Clearing Member is an FCM Clearing Member, transfer an
amount of Collateral which is equal to the FCM Allocated Client Collateral Buffer
for the relevant FCM Client Margin Requirement from the FCM Buffer Financial
Account to the relevant FCM Client Financial Account;

4.2.3

take any action under Article 4.3.2.3 as it shall deem necessary in respect of the
Relevant Client Cleared Transactions of the Defaulting Clearing Member and any
Collateral recorded in the Client Collateral Account(s) of the Defaulting Clearing
Member (provided that any such action taken in respect of a Relevant Client Cleared
Transaction is clearly referable to the relevant CCM Individual Segregated Account
Client, CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account Client, CCM Gross Omnibus Single
Sub-Account Client, CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Client or FCM Client, as
applicable);

4.2.4

if the Defaulting Clearing Member is a CCM and such Defaulting Clearing Member
transfers its Client Pledged Eligible Collateral to LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with
Article 4.3.2.1, update its books and records to show that the Eligible Collateral has
been provided to LCH.Clearnet SA with full title and ensure that the precise Eligible
Collateral, provided in respect of each CCM Individual Segregated Account Structure,
CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account Structure and/or CCM Gross Omnibus
Segregated Account Structure, is recorded in the relevant CCM Client Collateral
Account(s) in accordance with Section 3 of the Procedures;

4.2.5

ascertain whether:
(i)

if the Defaulting Clearing Member is a CCM:
(a) each CCM Individual Segregated Account Client of the Defaulting Clearing
Member has appointed a Backup Clearing Member;
(b) each of the CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account Clients attributable to a
single CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account Structure of the Defaulting
Clearing Member has appointed a single Backup Clearing Member;

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

185

Published on 14 April 2016

(c) with respect to each CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Structure of
the Defaulting Clearing Member, each of the CCM Gross Omnibus
Segregated Account Clients attributable to a single CCM Gross Omnibus
Sub-Account Structure has appointed a single Backup Clearing Member;
and
(ii)

if the Defaulting Clearing Member is an FCM Clearing Member, each of the FCM
Clients of the Defaulting Clearing Member has appointed a Backup Clearing
Member;

within the compulsory timeframe as set out in Clause 4.3.1 or Clause 4.3.2 as the case
may be;
4.2.6

in respect of each CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Structure for which all of
the Relevant Client Cleared Transactions are not to be transferred to a single Backup
Clearing Member:
(i)

if the Defaulting Clearing Member has failed to transfer the Client Pledged
Eligible Collateral to LCH.Clearnet SA within such period as LCH.Clearnet SA
has specified in its request pursuant to Article 4.3.2.1(i), enforce the security
interest granted to it under, and in accordance with, the Pledge Agreement by
appropriation of the Defaulting Clearing Member’s Client Pledged Eligible
Collateral in accordance with Article 4.3.2.6 and ensure that the precise Eligible
Collateral is recorded in the relevant CCM Client Collateral Account; and

(ii)

determine whether Client Assets recorded in the CCM Client Collateral Account
of the relevant CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Structure shall be
liquidated (in whole or in part) and, as the case may be, liquidate such Client
Assets and credit the liquidation value of such Client Assets to the CCM Client
Collateral Account of that CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Structure;

4.2.7

determine the Ported Collateral, in accordance with Clause 4.5, attributable to each
Client Margin Account, of the Defaulting Clearing Member (ensuring that any Collateral
which has been, or is to be, transferred to the relevant Client Collateral Account
pursuant to Clause 4.2.2 above is taken into account for these purposes), save where
all of the Relevant Client Cleared Transactions of a CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated
Account Structure are to be transferred to a single Backup Clearing Member. In such a
case, LCH.Clearnet SA will determine the Ported Collateral attributable to that CCM
Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Structure, by treating the CCM Client Margin
Accounts that are part of such CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Structure as
if they were a single CCM Client Margin Account;

4.2.8

where a Backup Clearing Member has been appointed in accordance with Clause 4.3.1
or Clause 4.3.2 as the case may be, send details of the open Relevant Client Cleared
Transactions and Ported Collateral to the nominated Backup Clearing Member in
respect of (i) each CCM Client of the Defaulting Clearing Member that is a CCM, or (ii)
each FCM Client of the Defaulting Clearing Member that is an FCM Clearing Member;

4.2.9

if the Defaulting Clearing Member is a CCM and where such Defaulting Clearing
Member has failed to transfer its Client Pledged Eligible Collateral to LCH.Clearnet SA
in accordance with Article 4.3.2.1(i), enforce the security interest granted to it under,

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

186

Published on 14 April 2016

and in accordance with, the Pledge Agreement by appropriation of the Defaulting
Clearing Member’s Client Pledged Eligible Collateral in accordance with Article 4.3.2.6;
4.2.10 notify the Defaulting Clearing Member of those Relevant Client Cleared Transactions
that will be ported to the appointed Backup Clearing Member(s) and those Non-Ported
Cleared Transactions that will be liquidated pursuant to the CDS Client Clearing DMP;
4.2.11

effect porting of the Relevant Client Cleared Transactions and transfer of the Ported
Collateral to the Backup Clearing Member(s);

4.2.12 once LCH.Clearnet SA has determined that porting in respect of a Client Account
Structure will not occur, perform such risk neutralisation as is required and thereafter
commence the Competitive Bidding process in respect of any Auction Packages
containing Non-Ported Cleared Transactions and, if the Defaulting Clearing Member is
a CCM, enforce its security interest under, and in accordance with, the Pledge
Agreement and realise the value of the Client Pledged Eligible Collateral (if any), in
accordance with Clause 4.4.2, by liquidating such Client Pledged Eligible Collateral.
4.3
4.3.1

Portability of the Relevant Client Cleared Transactions
Provided that (a) (I) a CCM Individual Segregated Account Client of a Defaulting
Clearing Member that is a CCM, (II) a CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client
of a Defaulting Clearing Member that is a CCM or (III) an FCM Client of a Defaulting
Clearing Member that is an FCM Clearing Member has appointed a Backup Clearing
Member and informed LCH.Clearnet SA of the identity of such Backup Clearing
Member at such time as determined by LCH.Clearnet SA; (b) within such period as
LCH.Clearnet SA may determine of the service of a Default Notice on the relevant
Clearing Member pursuant to Article 4.3.1.3, LCH.Clearnet SA has received
confirmation from the Backup Clearing Member of its unconditional agreement (such
agreement to be in such form as LCH.Clearnet SA may require at the relevant time) to
act as Backup Clearing Member in relation to all the Relevant Client Cleared
Transactions registered in the Client Trade Account(s) of (I) the relevant CCM
Individual Segregated Account Structure, (II) the relevant CCM Gross Omnibus Single
Sub-Account Structure or (III) the relevant FCM Client Account Structure and the
receipt of the related Ported Collateral; (c) LCH.Clearnet SA has received confirmation
from the relevant Client (in respect of such matters and in such form as LCH.Clearnet
SA may require at the relevant time); and (d) if the Defaulting Clearing Member is a
CCM, (I) such Defaulting Clearing Member has transferred ownership of the Client
Pledged Eligible Collateral to LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with the CDS Admission
Agreement and Section 3 of the Procedures or LCH.Clearnet SA has enforced the
security interest granted to it under, and in accordance with, the Pledge Agreement by
appropriating the Defaulting Clearing Member’s Client Pledged Eligible Collateral (if
any) in accordance with Article 4.3.2.6:
(i)

LCH.Clearnet SA shall either: (a) transfer all of the open Relevant Client Cleared
Transactions entered into by the Defaulting Clearing Member in respect of the
relevant Client to the appointed Backup Clearing Member; or (b) terminate and
close out such Relevant Client Cleared Transactions at their market value (as
determined by LCH.Clearnet SA in its discretion) and enter into replacement
Cleared Transactions on equivalent terms to such Relevant Client Cleared
Transactions with the appointed Backup Clearing Member in respect of the

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

187

Published on 14 April 2016

relevant Client. Transferred or replacement Relevant Client Cleared Transactions
will be registered in a Client Trade Account of the Backup Clearing Member and
the Ported Collateral (where transferred in accordance with paragraph (ii) of this
Clause 4.3.1) will be credited to the relevant Client Collateral Account of the
Backup Clearing Member overnight, in accordance with this Clause 4.3.1;

4.3.2

(ii)

where the relevant Client instructs a transfer of the Ported Collateral recorded in
the relevant Client Collateral Account (including the CCM Client Collateral
Account of a CCM Indirect Client Segregated Account Structure, if applicable)
and attributable to the relevant CCM Client Margin Account, to the appointed
Backup Clearing Member, LCH.Clearnet SA shall give effect to such instruction;
and

(iii)

the amount due to be returned to the Defaulting Clearing Member in respect of
the relevant Client shall be reduced by an amount equal to the value of the
Ported Collateral transferred to the Backup Clearing Member, as referred to in
paragraph (ii) of this Clause 4.3.1.

Provided, if the Defaulting Clearing Member is a CCM, that (a) (I) all of the CCM Net
Omnibus Segregated Account Clients within a CCM Net Omnibus Client Set of a
Defaulting Clearing Member or (II) all of the CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account
Clients within a CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Client Set of a Defaulting
Clearing Member, have appointed a single Backup Clearing Member and informed
LCH.Clearnet SA of the identity of such Backup Clearing Member at such time as
determined by LCH.Clearnet SA; (b) within such period as LCH.Clearnet SA may
determine of the service of a Default Notice on the relevant Clearing Member pursuant
to Article 4.3.1.3, LCH.Clearnet SA has received confirmation from the Backup Clearing
Member of its unconditional agreement (such agreement to be in such form as
LCH.Clearnet SA may require at the relevant time) to act as Backup Clearing Member
in relation to all the Relevant Client Cleared Transactions registered in the relevant
Client Trade Accounts and the receipt of the related Ported Collateral; (c) LCH.Clearnet
SA has received confirmation from each of such CCM Clients (in respect of such
matters and in such form as LCH.Clearnet SA may require at the relevant time); and (d)
such Defaulting Clearing Member has transferred ownership of the Client Pledged
Eligible Collateral to LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with the CDS Admission
Agreement or LCH.Clearnet SA has enforced the security interest granted to it under,
and in accordance with, the Pledge Agreement by appropriating the Defaulting Clearing
Member’s Client Pledged Eligible Collateral (if any) in accordance with Article 4.3.2.6:
(i)

LCH.Clearnet SA shall either (a) transfer all of the open Relevant Client Cleared
Transactions entered into by the Defaulting Clearing Member in respect of the
relevant CCM Clients to the appointed Backup Clearing Member; or (b)
terminate and close out such Relevant Client Cleared Transactions at their
market value (as determined by LCH.Clearnet SA in its discretion) and enter into
replacement Cleared Transactions on equivalent terms to such Relevant Client
Cleared Transactions with the appointed Backup Clearing Member in respect of
the relevant CCM Clients. Transferred or replacement Relevant Client Cleared
Transactions will be registered in Client Trade Accounts of the Backup Clearing
Member and the Ported Collateral (where transferred in accordance with
paragraph (ii) of this Clause 4.3.2) will be credited to the relevant Client

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

188

Published on 14 April 2016

Collateral Account of the Backup Clearing Member overnight, in accordance with
this Clause 4.3.2;

4.3.3

4.4

(ii)

where each of the relevant CCM Clients instructs a transfer of the Ported
Collateral attributable to the relevant CCM Client Collateral Account to the
appointed Backup Clearing Member, LCH.Clearnet SA shall give effect to such
instruction; and

(iii)

the amount due to be returned to the Defaulting Clearing Member in respect of
the relevant CCM Clients shall be reduced by an amount equivalent to the
Ported Collateral transferred to the Backup Clearing Member, as referred to in
paragraph (ii) of this Clause 4.3.2.

For the purposes of Clause 4.3.1 or Clause 4.3.2 above, the relevant Client may
provide consent to LCH.Clearnet SA in writing (including by facsimile and email) and
shall not be entitled to withdraw such consent once received by LCH.Clearnet SA.
Non-portability of the Relevant Client Cleared Transactions

In relation to each Client Account Structure in respect of which the Defaulting Clearing Member
has Non-Ported Cleared Transactions, LCH.Clearnet SA shall:
4.4.1

carry out Hedging and Competitive Bidding, in relation to such Non-Ported Cleared
Transactions, in accordance with the provisions of the CDS Default Management
Process, save that when establishing the Auction Packages for Competitive Bidding,
LCH.Clearnet SA shall not combine the House Cleared Transactions of the Defaulting
Clearing Member with such Non-Ported Cleared Transactions in a single Auction
Package;

4.4.2

if the Defaulting Clearing Member is a CCM, enforce its security interest under, and in
accordance with, the Pledge Agreement and realise the value of the Client Pledged
Eligible Collateral (if any) associated with each CCM Client Account Structure, by
liquidating such Pledged Eligible Collateral in accordance with Article 4.3.2.7 and
crediting such value to the relevant CCM Client Collateral Account(s);

4.4.3

calculate an amount (the "CDS Client Clearing Entitlement") equal to:
(i)

a pro rata share of the value (whether positive value or negative) arising from the
liquidation of such Defaulting Clearing Member's Non-Ported Cleared
Transactions such pro rata share being determined in accordance with the
methodology set out in Clause 4.5.2; plus

(ii)

(a)

if the Defaulting Clearing Member is a CCM, in respect of:
(I)

a CCM Individual Segregated Account Structure, the liquidation
value of the Client Assets recorded in the relevant Client
Collateral Account(s); or

(II)

a CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account Client or a CCM
Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Client, a pro rata share of
the liquidation value of the Client Assets recorded in the relevant
Client Collateral Account, such pro rata share being determined
by LCH.Clearnet SA in its sole discretion;

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

189

Published on 14 April 2016

(b)

4.4.4

4.5

if the Defaulting Clearing Member is an FCM Clearing Member, in
respect of each FCM Client, the value of the Client Assets attributable to
such FCM Client’s FCM Client Financial Account; minus

(iii)

a pro rata share of the costs of any Hedging undertaken, such pro rata share
being determined in accordance with the methodology set out in Clause ‎4.5.2;
minus

(iv)

a pro rata share of any costs, liabilities and expenses incurred or borne by
LCH.Clearnet SA in connection with the implementation of the CDS Client DMP
including, in particular, costs and amounts referred to in (i) and (iii) of this Clause
4.4.3, such pro rata share being determined in accordance with the methodology
set out in Clause 4.5.2;

if the Defaulting Clearing Member is a CCM, pay to such Client an amount equal to the
relevant CDS Client Clearing Entitlement, in accordance with the Delegation.
Calculation process

4.5.1

Determination of the Ported Collateral and calculation of the CDS Client Clearing
Entitlement for each Client will be undertaken by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with
its own records based on information provided to it by the Defaulting Clearing Member.
LCH.Clearnet SA shall be under no obligation to verify or conduct any independent
enquiry in respect of any such information and shall be entitled for all purposes to treat
it as definitive. However, LCH.Clearnet SA may, in its absolute discretion, adjust its
records to reflect any matter which it believes should be taken into account in
determining the Ported Collateral and/or calculating the CDS Client Clearing
Entitlements.

4.5.2

When Non-Ported Cleared Transactions attributable to different Clients are dealt with
as a single Auction Package, the pro rata share ("PRS")of the amounts specified in (i),
(iii) and (iv) of Clause ‎4.4.3 should be determined on the basis of the following formula:

Where:
A is either: (i) if the Defaulting Clearing Member is a CCM, (a) the last Client Margin
Requirement for the Client Margin Account(s) maintained by the Defaulting Clearing
Member in respect of (I) a CCM Individual Segregated Account Structure or (II) a CCM
Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Structure (as applicable) calculated and satisfied
prior to the Event of Default occurring; or (b) a portion of the last Client Margin
Requirement for the Client Margin Account maintained by the Defaulting Clearing
Member in respect of (I) a CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account Structure or (II) a
CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Structure (as applicable) calculated and
satisfied prior to the Event of Default occurring as attributed to the relevant CCM Net
Omnibus Segregated Account Client in such CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account
Structure or the relevant CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Client in such CCM
Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Structure (as applicable), such portion being
determined by LCH.Clearnet SA in its sole discretion; or (ii) if the Defaulting Clearing
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

190

Published on 14 April 2016

Member is an FCM Clearing Member, the last Client Margin Requirement for the FCM
Client Margin Account maintained by the FCM Clearing Member on behalf of an FCM
Client calculated and satisfied prior to the Event of Default occurring; and
B is the last Client Margin Requirement for each Client Margin Account of the
Defaulting Clearing Member in which the Non-Ported Cleared Transactions which are
the subject of the relevant Auction Package are contained, calculated and satisfied
prior to the Event of Default occurring.

5

Competitive Bidding
5.1

Principles of Competitive Bidding

LCH.Clearnet SA, in consultation with the CDS Default Management Group, shall ensure that
Competitive Bidding is carried out in accordance with the following principles:
(i)

all Non-Defaulting Clearing Members (directly or through an Affiliate or an LCH Approved
Outsourcing Agent acting in its place as the Auction Participant) shall be required to
participate in Competitive Bidding;

(ii)

all Auction Participants should be encouraged and incentivised to participate in
Competitive Bidding; and

(iii)

Competitive Bidding should be structured to ensure that the risk associated with the
Defaulting Clearing Member is offloaded by the cancellation of the Defaulting Clearing
Member’s Cleared Transactions at a price set in a commercially reasonable manner and
their replacement with equivalent Cleared Transactions registered within the Account
Structure of Non-Defaulting Clearing Member(s).

5.2

Construction of Auction Packages

5.2.1

Determination by LCH.Clearnet SA

LCH.Clearnet SA will determine, in consultation with the CDS Default Management Group,
the number of Auction Packages to be subject to Competitive Bidding.
LCH.Clearnet SA shall be permitted to establish multiple Auction Packages divided either by
reference to the different Transaction Categories or within the same Transaction Category,
provided that the determination of Auction Packages by LCH.Clearnet SA is made in
accordance with Clause 4.4.1.
The determination of LCH.Clearnet SA, in consultation with the CDS Default Management
Group, shall be made in its discretion depending on the context of the particular Event of
Default and the circumstances of the Defaulting Clearing Member.
5.2.2

Off-setting

Where a decision is taken to divide the Auction Portfolio into multiple Auction Packages in
accordance with Clause 5.2.1, LCH.Clearnet SA, in consultation with the CDS Default
Management Group, shall undertake such division at its discretion in good faith with a view
to ensuring that Competitive Bidding is carried out in accordance with the principles set out
in Clause 5.1. In exercising its discretion under this Clause 5.2.2, LCH.Clearnet SA, in
consultation with the CDS Default Management Group, shall consider, wherever possible,
taking into account LCH.Clearnet SA’s margining methodology, including within each

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

191

Published on 14 April 2016

Auction Package, any Cleared Transactions which have been offset for the purposes of
calculating the Defaulting Clearing Member's Margin Requirement under Article 4.2.3.1.
5.3

Competitive Bidding for multiple Auction Packages

LCH.Clearnet SA shall hold a separate auction for each Auction Package. The principles set out
in Clauses 5.4 to 5.9.2 shall govern Competitive Bidding for each Auction Package and shall
apply to each Auction Package separately.
5.4

Conduct of Competitive Bidding

5.4.1

Participation in Competitive Bidding

All Auction Participants are required to participate in Competitive Bidding for each Auction
Package notwithstanding that any Auction Participant may not have registered within its
Account Structure a Cleared Transaction of the type included in the relevant Transaction
Category for an Auction Package, save where:
(i)

an Auction Package comprises Single Name Cleared Transactions whose Reference
Entity is the Auction Participant, in which case that Auction Participant is not required
to participate in Competitive Bidding for that Auction Package; and

(ii)

LCH.Clearnet SA reasonably considers on a non-discriminatory basis that such
Auction Participant is not required to participate in Competitive Bidding for that
Auction Package.

Where two or more Auction Participants within a Financial Group request LCH.Clearnet SA
to treat them as a single Auction Participant for the purpose of requiring participation in
Competitive Bidding under this Clause 5.4.1, LCH.Clearnet SA shall consent to such a
request.
5.4.2

Bidding Process

Subject to Clause 9 and in accordance with the procedure set out in the CDS Default
Management Guidance Manual, LCH.Clearnet SA, in consultation with the CDS Default
Management Group shall determine, and notify to each Auction Participant, the following:
(i)

the number of Auction Packages, the size and direction of each Auction Package and
such other information as may reasonably be considered necessary for the Auction
Participants to receive;

(ii)

the number of Auction Participants required to participate in the Competitive Bidding
for that Auction Package pursuant to Clause 5.4.1, taking into account the treatment
of Auction Participants within a Financial Group as a single Auction Participant;

(iii)

the Minimum Bid Size Denominator;

(iv)

in respect of each Auction Package, the Minimum Bid Size for each Auction
Participant required to participate in the Competitive Bidding for that Auction Package
pursuant to Clause 5.4.1;

(v)

the identity of the Nominated Representative; and

(vi)

the Bid Deadline.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

192

Published on 14 April 2016

5.4.3

Bidding

Each Auction Participant who participates in Competitive Bidding for an Auction Package is
required to submit their Bid(s) in accordance with Clauses 5.4.4 to 5.4.7 below, to the
Nominated Representative. Each Bid will specify the Bid Size and the Bid Price. By
submitting a Bid, an Auction Participant represents that it will accept the registration of
Auction Transactions equivalent to the Bid Size of the Bid at a cost determined in
accordance with these provisions.
Auction Participants will be required to submit their Bid(s) by the Bid Deadline. However, in
the event that LCH.Clearnet SA provides notification to all Auction Participants in reasonable
time prior to the Bid Deadline, a grace period may be granted to all Auction Participants
provided that such grace period shall be no longer than one hour, after consultation with the
CDS Default Management Group.
Where Bids are received after the Bid Deadline (and the expiration of any grace period
granted by LCH.Clearnet SA, pursuant to this Clause 5.4.3), LCH.Clearnet SA may, in its
absolute discretion, reject a Bid on the grounds that it would prevent the CDS Default
Management Process being completed within the targeted timeframe set out in Clause 2.1.
5.4.4

Minimum Bid Size

For each Auction Package, each Auction Participant who is required to bid for that Auction
Package in accordance with Clause 5.4.1 above shall be required to submit Bid(s) in an
amount equal to or greater than its Minimum Bid Size. The Minimum Bid Size ("MBS") shall
be calculated by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with the following formula and expressed
as a percentage:

MBS  [

A
]xC
B

Where:
A is the amount of the Auction Participant’s contribution to the CDS Default Fund as at the
last revaluation date prior to the declaration of the relevant Event of Default by
LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Article 4.4.1.3. For the purposes of this calculation, an
Auction Participant’s contribution shall be the aggregate of its Contribution and the
Contribution of any other Clearing Member in its Financial Group and with whom it is being
treated as a single Auction Participant, pursuant to Clause 5.4.1.
B is the sum of Contributions of all Auction Participants who are required to bid for that
Auction Package in accordance with Clause 5.4.1 above, as at the last revaluation date of
the CDS Default Fund prior to the declaration of the relevant Event of Default by
LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Article 4.4.1.5 and Article 4.4.1.6.
C is the Minimum Bid Size Denominator.
5.4.5

Satisfying the Minimum Bid Size

An Auction Participant can satisfy the requirement set out in Clause 5.4.4 by submitting
multiple Bids with differing Bid Prices and Bid Sizes provided that, in aggregate, the Bid
Size(s) of the Bids equals or exceeds the Minimum Bid Size. Accordingly, there is no
requirement for an Auction Participant to submit a single Bid whose Bid Size equals the
Minimum Bid Size, although it is entitled to do so.
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

193

Published on 14 April 2016

5.4.6

Bids in excess of the Minimum Bid Size

An Auction Participant can submit Bid(s) whose Bid Size(s) alone, or in aggregate, exceed
the Minimum Bid Size for any Auction Package, subject that an Auction Participant shall be
prohibited from submitting Bid(s) whose Bid Size(s), alone or in aggregate, exceed 100 per
cent. of the relevant Auction Package.
5.4.7

Bid Price

Auction Participants shall have sole discretion to specify the Bid Price that will apply to the
Bid(s) submitted in the course of Competitive Bidding and neither LCH.Clearnet SA nor the
CDS Default Management Group is permitted to specify, in advance of Competitive Bidding
commencing, a minimum or maximum Bid Price that will apply in respect of a particular
Auction Package.
5.4.8

Assessment of Non Market Bids

Following the Bid Deadline, LCH.Clearnet SA, in consultation with the CDS Default
Management Group, shall review the Bid(s) received in the course of Competitive Bidding to
determine whether any Non Market Bid(s) have been submitted. LCH.Clearnet SA shall
have the discretion to deem any Bid which does not satisfy the Market Bid Metric to be a
Market Bid and in determining whether to exercise such discretion, in consultation with the
CDS Default Management Group, shall take into account the relevant Auction Participant's
Bid(s) as a whole.
5.5

Non Bidders

For the avoidance of doubt, if:
5.5.1

an Auction Participant has submitted Market Bid(s) in respect of an Auction Package
which, in aggregate, equal or are in excess of its Minimum Bid Size, LCH.Clearnet SA
shall not be entitled to deem such Auction Participant to be a Non Bidder in respect of
other Bid(s) submitted for the same Auction Package which could otherwise be deemed
Non Market Bid(s); and/or

5.5.2

an Auction Participant is not required to bid for an Auction Package in accordance with
Clause 5.4.1(i) above, LCH.Clearnet SA shall not be entitled to deem such Auction
Participant to be a Non Bidder in respect of that Auction Package.

5.6

Allocation of the Auction Package

5.6.1

Calculation of the Initial Allocation Price

Following the earlier of the receipt of final Bids from all Auction Participants and the Bid
Deadline (and the expiration of any grace period granted by LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to
Clause 5.4.3), LCH.Clearnet SA, in consultation with the CDS Default Management Group,
will determine the Initial Allocation Price, the Initial Transfer Payable and the Initial Transfer
Receivable on the following basis:
(i)

it shall rank the Bids from best to worst, such that the Bid with the Bid Price which
would ensure the best commercial result for LCH.Clearnet SA shall be regarded as
the "best", and shall repeat such determination until all Bids are ranked according to
their Bid Price. For these purposes, the "best commercial result" means the price at
which LCH.Clearnet SA would receive the greatest amount or would have to pay the
least amount in respect of the Auction Package;

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

194

Published on 14 April 2016

(ii)

(iii)

5.6.2

it shall determine the Initial Allocation Price as follows:
(a)

it shall deem the Bid with the best Bid Price to be successful and shall allocate
the Bid Size of such Bid against the Auction Package;

(b)

it shall repeat the process with each successive Bid with the best Bid Price until
such time as the Auction Package has been completely allocated, subject to
adjustment pursuant to Clause 5.6.3 (i);

(c)

if there is more than one Bid at the same Bid Price at which the entire Auction
Package would be allocated, the Bids at that Bid Price shall be deemed
allocated pro rata the relevant Bid Size of each Bid;

(d)

each of the Bids (or parts thereof) which are allocated shall be deemed Initial
Winning Bids and the worst Bid Price of all the Initial Winning Bids shall be the
Initial Allocation Price; and

the Initial Transfer Payable or Initial Transfer Receivable shall be determined for each
Auction Participant as the product of the aggregate of the Bid Sizes of that Auction
Participant's Initial Winning Bids and the Initial Allocation Price.
Process of Allocation

LCH.Clearnet SA, in consultation with the CDS Default Management Group, shall allocate
each Auction Package amongst each of the Initial Winning Bids in a fair and consistent
manner. Accordingly, an Auction Participant with one or more Initial Winning Bids in respect
of an Auction Package shall be allocated a percentage of each of the Auction Transactions
equal to the aggregate of the Bid Size of its Initial Winning Bids.
5.6.3

Non Bidders

Where Non Bidders are identified:
(i)

LCH.Clearnet SA shall adjust the procedure for calculating the Initial Allocation Price,
the Initial Transfer Payable and the Initial Transfer Receivable for Auction Participants
by conducting the process set out in Clause 5.6.1(ii)(a) but on the basis that n% of the
Auction Package shall be allocated, where "n" is equal to 100 minus the aggregate of
each Non Bidder’s Auction Non Bidder Bid Size;

(ii)

each Non Bidder shall be deemed to have submitted a single Bid with a Bid Size
equal to their Auction Non Bidder Bid Size and a Bid Price equal to the Initial
Allocation Price minus EUR 0.01 (where it is due an Initial Transfer Receivable in
respect of the Auction Package) or plus EUR 0.01 (where it is required to make an
Initial Transfer Payable in respect of the Auction Package) (the "Non Bidder
Allocation Price"); and

(iii)

the Initial Transfer Payable or Initial Transfer Receivable for each Non Bidder shall
then be determined as the product of the relevant Non Bidder’s Auction Non Bidder
Bid Size and the Non Bidder Allocation Price.

For the avoidance of doubt, an Auction Participant may be deemed to submit Market Bids
and Non-Market Bids in respect of the same Auction Package and shall only be deemed to
be a Non-Market Bidder in respect of those Bids which are Non Market Bids.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

195

Published on 14 April 2016

5.6.4

Notification of Initial Allocation Price

Following the calculation of:
(i)

the Initial Allocation Price and the Initial Transfer Payable or Initial Transfer
Receivable for each Auction Participant (excluding Non Bidders); and

(ii)

the Non Bidder Allocation Price and the Initial Transfer Payable or Initial Transfer
Receivable for each Non Bidder,

and provided that LCH.Clearnet SA has determined that it has sufficient financial resources
in accordance with Clause 5.10 and that it does not need to hold a second round of
Competitive Bidding in accordance with Clause 5.7.1, LCH.Clearnet SA will notify all Auction
Participants that the Competitive Bidding process for the relevant Auction Package has
been concluded and shall additionally notify each Clearing Member with an Initial Winning
Bid(s), the details of the Initial Allocation Price or Non Bidder Allocation Prices (as the case
may be) and the Initial Transfer Payable or Initial Transfer Receivable. Subject to Clause
6.3.2, an Initial Winning Bidder shall be contractually bound to accept registration of the
Transfer Positions within its Account Structure in accordance with Clause 6.1.
5.7

Review of Competitive Bidding

5.7.1

Decision to hold a second round of Competitive Bidding

Where, following the calculation of the Initial Allocation Price and the Non Bidder Allocation
Price (as appropriate), the Initial Transfer Payable and the Initial Transfer Receivable in
accordance with Clause 5.6.1, LCH.Clearnet SA, in consultation with the CDS Default
Management Group, determines that an LCH Transfer Cost arises such as to require
recourse to the LCH.Clearnet SA Contribution, in accordance with Article 4.3.3.1, then it
shall be permitted to consider holding a second round of Competitive Bidding.
In such circumstance LCH.Clearnet SA, in consultation with the CDS Default Management
Group, shall determine in its absolute discretion whether:
(i)

it would be possible, through holding a second round of Competitive Bidding, to
generate higher LCH Transfer Receipts (if the Auction Package has a positive markto-market) or a lower LCH Transfer Cost (if the Auction Package has a negative markto-market); and

(ii)

it would not be unrealistic that, following a second round of Competitive Bidding, the
LCH Transfer Receipt or LCH Transfer Cost would be such as to enable
LCH.Clearnet SA to register the Winning Bids within the Account Structure of the
Non-Defaulting Clearing Member(s), in accordance with Clause 6.1, without
exhausting the financial resources available to LCH.Clearnet SA under Article 4.3.3.1.

5.7.2

Participation in a second round of Competitive Bidding

Where LCH.Clearnet SA determines that a lower LCH Transfer Cost or a higher LCH
Transfer Receipt, as appropriate, could be generated, it shall require Auction Participants to
participate in a second round of Competitive Bidding as soon as is reasonably practicable.
LCH.Clearnet SA will consult with the CDS Default Management Group in accordance with
the procedure set out in the Default Management Guidance Manual.
LCH.Clearnet SA, in consultation with the CDS Default Management Group, shall determine
the percentage of the original Auction Package which will be subject to the second
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

196

Published on 14 April 2016

Competitive Bidding (such portion being referred to in the remainder of this Clause 5 as the
"Residual Auction Package"). However LCH.Clearnet SA shall not be permitted to
determine that more than 20 per cent. of the relevant Auction Package shall form the
Residual Auction Package, unless a minor increase to such percentage would have, in the
reasonable determination of LCH.Clearnet SA and the CDS Default Management Group, a
material impact on the LCH Transfer Cost or LCH Transfer Receipt, as applicable, which it is
expected will be generated as a result of the second round of Competitive Bidding.
5.8

Recalculated Allocation of the Auction Package and Initial Registration

5.8.1

Recalculation of Initial Allocation Price

In the event that LCH.Clearnet SA determines that a second round of Competitive Bidding
shall take place, LCH.Clearnet SA, in consultation with the CDS Default Management
Group, shall recalculate the Initial Allocation Price and the Non Bidder Allocation Price, as
appropriate, (and, by definition, the Bids thereby treated as Initial Winning Bids) and Initial
Transfer Payable or Initial Transfer Receivable by following the procedure set out in Clause
5.6.1 in respect of the Reduced Auction Package.
5.8.2

Notification of recalculated Initial Allocation Price

Following any recalculation of:
(i)

the Initial Allocation Price and the Initial Transfer Payable or Initial Transfer
Receivable for each Auction Participant (excluding Non Bidders); and

(ii)

the Non Bidder Allocation Price and the Initial Transfer Payable or Initial Transfer
Receivable for each Non Bidder,

pursuant to Clause 5.8.1, provided it has determined that it has sufficient financial resources
in accordance with Clause 5.10, LCH.Clearnet SA will notify all Auction Participants of the
results of the Competitive Bidding process including, for each Clearing Member with an
Initial Winning Bid(s), the details of the Initial Allocation Price or Non Bidder Allocation Prices
(as the case may be) and the Initial Transfer Payable or Initial Transfer Receivable. Subject
to Clause 6.3.2, an Initial Winning Bidder shall be contractually bound to accept registration
of the Transfer Positions within its Account Structure in accordance with Clause 6.1.
5.9

Conduct of Competitive Bidding for the Residual Auction Package

Competitive Bidding for the Residual Auction Package should be carried out in accordance with
Clauses 5.1 to 5.4, treating the Residual Auction Package as the Auction Package for purposes
of interpreting such provisions, but subject to the remainder of this Clause 5.9.
In applying such provisions to Competitive Bidding for the Residual Auction Package:
(i)

the Residual Allocation Price shall be determined on the basis that it were the Initial
Allocation Price;

(ii)

the Residual Winning Bids shall be determined on the basis that they were Initial
Winning Bids;

(iii)

the Residual Transfer Payable shall be determined on the basis that it were the Initial
Transfer Payable;

(iv)

the Residual Transfer Receivable shall be determined on the basis that it were the Initial
Transfer Receivable; and

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

197

Published on 14 April 2016

(v)

LCH.Clearnet SA shall allocate the Auction Transactions for the Residual Auction
Package in accordance with Clause 5.6.2.

5.9.1

Recalculated Minimum Bid Size

Each Auction Participant’s Minimum Bid Size shall be subject to recalculation for the
Residual Auction Package depending on the outcome of the first round of Competitive
Bidding:
(i)

where the aggregate of the Bid Sizes of an Auction Participant’s Initial Winning Bids
for the related Auction Package exceeds that Auction Participant’s original Minimum
Bid Size calculated in accordance with Clause 5.4.4, that Auction Participant will have
its Minimum Bid Size for the Residual Auction Package reduced by an amount equal
to the Bid Credit. For these purposes, the "Bid Credit" for any Auction Participant
shall be the percentage difference between the Minimum Bid Size and the percentage
of the aggregate of the Bid Sizes of that Auction Participant’s Initial Winning Bids;

(ii)

for each Auction Participant to whom a Bid Credit has not been ascribed, that Auction
Participant’s Minimum Bid Size shall be increased by a pro rata share of the
aggregate Bid Credits ascribed in relation to that Residual Auction Package.

5.9.2

Competitive Bidding Process

LCH.Clearnet SA shall not be permitted to review the Competitive Bidding for the Residual
Auction Package and shall be required to complete its obligations with respect to
registration of the Transfer Positions, arising therefrom.
5.9.3

Notification of Residual Allocation Price

Following the calculation of:
(i)

the Residual Allocation Price and the Residual Transfer Payable or Residual Transfer
Receivable for each Auction Participant (excluding Non Bidders); and

(ii)

the Non Bidder Allocation Price and the Residual Transfer Payable or Residual
Transfer Receivable for each Non Bidder,

pursuant to Clause 5.9, LCH.Clearnet SA will notify all Auction Participants of the results of
the second round of Competitive Bidding including, for each Clearing Member with a
Residual Winning Bid(s), the details of the Residual Allocation Price or Non Bidder
Allocation Price (as the case may be) and the Residual Transfer Payable or Residual
Transfer Receivable. Subject to Clause 6.3.2, a Residual Winning Bidder shall be
contractually bound to accept registration of the Transfer Positions within its Account
Structure in accordance with Clause 6.1.
5.10

LCH.Clearnet SA determination of financial resources

Following the determination of the Initial Allocation Price pursuant to the first round of
Competitive Bidding (or Residual Allocation Price pursuant to the second round of Competitive
Bidding, as the case may be), LCH.Clearnet SA shall determine whether it has sufficient
financial resources to meet its obligations arising from such Competitive Bidding, including but
not limited to the ability to credit a Winning Bidder with an Initial Transfer Receivable or a
Residual Transfer Receivable, as the case may be.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

198

Published on 14 April 2016

If the calculation of the Distribution Haircut produces a figure greater than 1, LCH.Clearnet SA
shall be required to determine that it does not have sufficient financial resources.
LCH.Clearnet SA may only notify Winning Bidders in accordance with Clause 5.6.4, Clause
5.8.2 or Clause 5.9.3, as appropriate, and perform its obligations pursuant to Clause 6 in
respect of the relevant Transfer Positions if it has reasonably determined that it does have
sufficient financial resources. If LCH.Clearnet SA determines that it does not have sufficient
financial resources, it shall notify all Auction Participants of the failure of Competitive Bidding
and shall call an Early Termination Trigger Date in accordance with Clause 8 and, for the
avoidance of doubt, no Auction Participant shall be deemed to have a Winning Bid and
LCH.Clearnet SA shall not be permitted to register any Transfer Positions within the Account
Structure of any Auction Participant.

6

Registration of Transfer Positions
6.1

Registration of Winning Bids

LCH.Clearnet SA, in consultation with the CDS Default Management Group, shall register the
Transfer Positions within the House Account Structure of:
6.1.1

an Initial Winning Bidder by no later than 09.15 on the Clearing Day following
conclusion of the first round of Competitive Bidding; and

6.1.2

a Residual Winning Bidder by no later than 09.15 on the Clearing Day following
conclusion of the second round of Competitive Bidding.
For the avoidance of doubt, where two rounds of Competitive Bidding have been
undertaken on the same day, LCH.Clearnet SA, in consultation with the CDS Default
Management Group, shall nevertheless undertake separate registration processes for
the Transfer Positions arising from the first round of Competitive Bidding and the
Transfer Positions arising from the second round of Competitive Bidding.

6.2

Registration Obligations

In order to effect the registration of the Transfer Positions within a Winning Bidder’s House
Account Structure, as contemplated by Clause 6.1, LCH.Clearnet SA shall prescribe such
procedures and timetable as it considers reasonably appropriate in the circumstances. Winning
Bidders will be required to comply with such requirements as may be established by
LCH.Clearnet SA, after consultation with the CDS Default Management Group, to effect the
registration of the Transfer Positions. In particular:
(i)

Winning Bidders will provide LCH.Clearnet SA with Collateral to satisfy an increased
House Margin Requirement which shall take account of the Transfer Positions;

(ii)

if Competitive Bidding has given rise to an Initial Transfer Receivable or a Residual
Transfer Receivable, as the case may be, LCH.Clearnet SA will credit the Winning
Bidder with the requisite amount;

(iii)

if Competitive Bidding has given rise to an Initial Transfer Payable or a Residual Transfer
Payable, as the case may be, the Winning Bidder will pay the requisite amount to
LCH.Clearnet SA; and

(iv)

LCH.Clearnet SA shall ensure that the registration of the Transfer Positions is made in a
way that recognises the Variation Margin paid or received, in relation to the Cleared

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

199

Published on 14 April 2016

Transactions of the Defaulting Clearing Member representing such Transfer Positions, to
date.
6.3

Failed Registration Obligations

6.3.1

Winning Bidder failure

In the event that registration of a Transfer Position in accordance with Clause 6.1 requires
the Winning Bidder to pay to LCH.Clearnet SA an amount reflecting an Initial Transfer
Payable or a Residual Transfer Payable, as the case may be, any failure by the Winning
Bidder to pay such amount or to provide Collateral to LCH.Clearnet SA as Margin in respect
of the Transfer Position shall constitute a Payment Failure.
6.3.2

LCH.Clearnet SA failure

(i)

LCH.Clearnet SA shall not be permitted to register any Transfer Position with a Winning
Bidder unless it is satisfied that its financial resources are sufficient to credit each
Winning Bidder with its Initial Transfer Receivable or Residual Transfer Receivable, as
the case may be.

(ii)

If LCH.Clearnet SA fails to credit such amount to the relevant Winning Bidder, either:
(a)

prior to or simultaneously with calling for or returning, as the case may be, any
Collateral taking into consideration the Open Positions reflecting such Transfer
Positions; or

(b)

if, in order to credit the required amounts to the Winner Bidder, LCH.Clearnet SA
is dependent on Additional Contribution Amounts from Non-Defaulting Clearing
Members being received in the same payment window as the payment or receipt
of such Collateral, immediately after the payment window in which such
Collateral shall be paid or received (as set out in Section 3 of the Procedures),

such registration of the Transfer Position shall be deemed void ab initio and
unenforceable against the Winning Bidder and:

(iii)

(x)

LCH.Clearnet SA shall not take any Open Positions reflecting such Transfer
Positions into account for the purpose of calculating that Winning Bidder’s House
Margin Requirement on an ongoing basis; and

(y)

to the extent a Collateral Call has already been made in respect of a Winning
Bidder, taking account of Open Positions reflecting such Transfer Positions, and
the relevant Winning Bidder has transferred Collateral in satisfaction of its House
Margin Requirement on that basis the amount of Collateral called in respect of
the Open Positions reflecting such Transfer Positions shall be returned to the
Winning Bidder in accordance with Section 3 of the Procedures.

In the event that LCH.Clearnet SA does not receive sufficient available resources in the
relevant payment window on account of the failure of one or more Non-Defaulting
Clearing Members, LCH.Clearnet SA, in consultation with the CDS Default
Management Group, may take such action as is required, including holding a further
auction process. In the event that LCH.Clearnet SA reasonably believes, after
consultation with the CDS Default Management Group, that it will have sufficient
available resources following an additional request for Additional Contribution Amounts
from the then Non-Defaulting Clearing Members, LCH.Clearnet SA shall call for such

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

200

Published on 14 April 2016

amounts in accordance with Section 6 of the Procedures no later than the first available
payment window on the following Business Day and the registration of the Transfer
Positions shall not be regarded as void ab initio until LCH.Clearnet SA has determined
whether it has sufficient available resources following such payment window.
Notwithstanding any discretion provided to LCH.Clearnet SA in this paragraph (c),
LCH.Clearnet SA shall be prohibited from determining not to credit each Winning Bidder with
the full amount of its Initial Transfer Receivable or Residual Transfer Receivable and if it
determines that it does not have, and will not have through the payment of Additional
Contribution Amounts, sufficient available resources to credit such amounts, the registration
of such Transfer Positions shall be deemed void ab initio in accordance with (b) above.
6.4

Off-setting

LCH.Clearnet SA agrees that it shall make provision for set-off by LCH.Clearnet SA of amounts
owed by LCH.Clearnet SA to the Winning Bidder as a result of the operation of the CDS Default
Management Process against sums owed by the Winning Bidder to LCH.Clearnet SA in respect
thereof.

7

Loss Distribution Process
7.1

Adjustment of Variation Margin payments

7.1.1

Cash Gainer

On each Loss Distribution Day for each Margin Account of each Non-Defaulting Clearing
Member that is deemed to be a Cash Gainer, the relevant Non-Defaulting Clearing Member
shall be required to pay LCH.Clearnet SA an amount equal to any positive amount
determined in accordance with the following formula or, as applicable, LCH.Clearnet SA
shall be required to pay the relevant Non-Defaulting Clearing Member the absolute value of
any negative amount determined in accordance with the following formula (in each case,
such amount the "Cash Gainer Adjustment"):
Cash Gainer Adjustment(t) = PHG(t) – (CHG(t) * Max (0, 1 - DH(t)) – CAG(t-1))
where:
"PHG" means the Pre Haircut Gains, Losses and Realised Cash Flows;
"CHG" means the Cumulative Hypothetical Gains, Losses and Realised Cash Flows;
"DH" means the Distribution Haircut; and
"CAG" means the Cumulative Actual Gains, Losses and Realised Cash Flows and where
"CAG" as at the Last Call prior to Default shall be zero.
7.1.2

Cash Loser

On each Loss Distribution Day for each Margin Account of each Non-Defaulting Clearing
Member that is deemed to be a Cash Loser, LCH.Clearnet SA shall be required to pay the
absolute value of an amount (the "Cash Loser Adjustment") determined in accordance
with the following formula:
Cash Loser Adjustment(t) = PHG(t) – (CHG(t) – CAG(t-1))
where:
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

201

Published on 14 April 2016

"PHG" means the Pre Haircut Gains, Losses and Realised Cash Flows;
"CHG" means the Cumulative Hypothetical Gains, Losses and Realised Cash Flows; and
"CAG" means the Cumulative Actual Gains, Losses and Realised Cash Flows and where
"CAG" as at the Last Call prior to Default shall be zero.
7.1.3

Application of Margin Account Adjustment

On each Loss Distribution Day, LCH.Clearnet SA shall apply the payment or receipt of any
Margin Account Adjustment as an offset against any payments from or receivable by the
relevant Clearing Member in respect of the same Margin Account.
7.1.4

Adjustments for Physical Settlement

Where Physical Settlement is applicable to any Cleared Transaction on any Loss
Distribution Day, LCH.Clearnet SA may, following consultation with the Risk Committee or
the CDS Default Management Group, as appropriate, make such adjustments as are
necessary to the calculation of Cash Gainer Adjustment or Cash Loser Adjustment to reflect
the payment flows arising from such Physical Settlement, keeping in mind the principle that
the calculation of Cash Gainer Adjustment and Cash Loser Adjustment is designed to
capture all profits and/or losses on positions during the relevant Loss Distribution Period.
7.2

Application of Cash Gainer Adjustment

LCH.Clearnet SA shall apply all Cash Gainer Adjustment it receives solely for the purposes of
meeting Damage incurred by LCH.Clearnet SA following, and in relation to, each relevant Event
of Default, as contemplated at and in accordance with Article 4.3.3.1 of the CDS Clearing Rule
Book.
7.3

Adjustment to Loss Distribution Cap Amount

If, during any Loss Distribution Period, it appears to LCH.Clearnet SA that the Clearing Member
Adjustment Amount for any Non-Defaulting Clearing Member is, or is about to be, equal to or
greater than the Loss Distribution Cap Amount, LCH.Clearnet SA may request that an
adjustment be made to the Loss Distribution Cap Amount for such Non-Defaulting Clearing
Member. The relevant Non-Defaulting Clearing Member may, but is not required to, agree to an
adjustment to such Loss Distribution Cap Amount. Once a Non-Defaulting Clearing Member
has provided agreement to adjust the Loss Distribution Cap Amount in the form and within the
timeframe set out in the relevant Clearing Notice referred to in Article 3.1.9.2 of the CDS
Clearing Rule Book, such agreement will be considered irrevocable and cannot be withdrawn.
The Adjusted Loss Distribution Cap Amount shall be applicable in accordance with the
agreement between the relevant Non-Defaulting Clearing Member and LCH.Clearnet SA and
for such period as may be agreed by the relevant Non-Defaulting Clearing Member, but which
shall in no event be longer than the applicable Loss Distribution Period.
7.4

No rebate

The payment to LCH.Clearnet SA of any Cash Gainer Adjustment by any Non-Defaulting
Clearing Member shall be final and shall not give rise to any obligation of LCH.Clearnet SA to
repay any such amount or to pay any interest thereon, unless prior to the end of the Loss
Distribution Period, there is an Early Termination Trigger Date or an LCH Default, in which case
any net Cash Gainer Adjustment paid by a Non-Defaulting Clearing Member shall be repayable

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

202

Published on 14 April 2016

by LCH.Clearnet SA in respect of the relevant Margin Account pursuant to Clause 8 or TITLE I,
Chapter 3 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, as the case may be.
7.5

Application of any recoveries

Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 4.4.3.8 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, if the Loss
Distribution Process has been invoked by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with this Clause 7,
LCH.Clearnet SA shall reimburse the Clearing Members (irrespective of whether they remain
Clearing Members at the time of the recovery) and LCH.Clearnet SA on a pro rata basis by
reference to the resources which have been applied pursuant to Article 4.3.1.1 of the CDS
Clearing Rule Book during any CDS Post-Default Period relating to the relevant Defaulting
Clearing Member and including the net amount of any Margin Account Adjustment paid by the
relevant Clearing Members during such CDS Post-Default Period, the LCH.Clearnet SA
Contribution and the Contributions and/or Additional Contribution Amounts of Clearing Members
so applied, in respect of:
7.5.1

any amounts received from the Defaulting Clearing Member as a result of
LCH.Clearnet SA being a creditor of the Defaulting Clearing Member in the context of
Insolvency Proceedings or otherwise, other than in respect of sums due to
LCH.Clearnet SA; or

7.5.2

any other amounts howsoever obtained or recovered in the course of LCH.Clearnet
SA's operation of the CDS Default Management Process or which are otherwise
referable to the Defaulting Clearing Member,

in each case net of any related expenses incurred by LCH.Clearnet SA or other sums owing to
LCH.Clearnet SA by the Defaulting Clearing Member in connection with the CDS Clearing
Service. For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in Article 4.4.3.8 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book
shall oblige LCH.Clearnet SA to pursue any litigation or other action in order to recover the
amounts contemplated above and if another default fund of LCH.Clearnet SA has also been
applied as a result of the Defaulting Clearing Member's default, any amounts recovered shall
be applied pari passu as between the relevant default funds.

8

Early Termination
8.1
8.1.1

Early Termination Trigger
If, on any Loss Distribution Day, LCH.Clearnet SA determines either that the Clearing
Member Adjustment Amount for any Non-Defaulting Clearing Member would be equal
to or greater than the applicable Loss Distribution Cap Amount for such Non-Defaulting
Clearing Member (as adjusted pursuant to Clause 7.3, as the case may be) on that
Loss Distribution Day or LCH.Clearnet SA does not have sufficient financial resources
available to make all payments required pursuant to Clause 5.10 (the "Early
Termination Trigger Date"), neither LCH.Clearnet SA nor any Non-Defaulting Clearing
Member shall be obliged to make any further payments or deliveries under any Cleared
Transaction between them which would, but for this Clause 8.1, have fallen due for
performance on or after the Early Termination Trigger Date, and any obligations to
make further payments or deliveries which would otherwise have fallen due shall be
satisfied by settlement (whether by payment, set off or otherwise) of the House LCH
Repayment Amount and Client LCH Repayment Amount(s) and other payment and
delivery obligations in relation to any Cleared Transactions and any other obligations
pursuant to the CDS Clearing Documentation (including Collateral registered in any

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

203

Published on 14 April 2016

Collateral Accounts and other Collateral representing a Clearing Member’s Contribution
Requirement) shall be payable or deliverable on the Early Termination Trigger Date and
in accordance with the provisions of this Clause 8.
8.1.2

Upon the occurrence of an Early Termination Trigger Date, LCH.Clearnet SA shall
promptly publish a Clearing Notice in accordance with Article 3.1.9.4 of the CDS
Clearing Rule Book.

8.1.3

In circumstances where Client Collateral Buffer has been allocated to a CCM Client
Account Structure in accordance with Article 4.2.2.4 and Section 2 of the Procedures,
LCH.Clearnet SA shall transfer an amount of Collateral which is equal to the CCM
Allocated Client Collateral Buffer for the relevant CCM Client Account Structure from
the Buffer Collateral Account to the CCM Client Collateral Account of that CCM Client
Account Structure as soon as reasonably practicable.

8.1.4

For these purposes, the amounts to be repaid shall include, in respect each Margin
Account of each Non-Defaulting Clearing Member:

8.2

(i)

Variation Margin;

(ii)

any Collateral recorded in the relevant Collateral Account (including, in the case
of a CCM Client Margin Account, any Collateral transferred (or due to be
transferred) to the relevant CCM Client Collateral Account by LCH.Clearnet SA
pursuant to Clause 8.1.3), in each case without applying any haircuts to the
valuation of the Collateral. Such amount will not include Pledged Eligible
Collateral, CCM Unallocated Client Collateral or FCM Unallocated Client Excess
Collateral returned to the relevant Non-Defaulting Clearing Member in
accordance with Clause 8.7;

(iii)

any net Cash Gainer Adjustments which has been paid by the Clearing Member
to LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to Clause 7.1, for each Margin Account;

(iv)

any other amounts that may be due to or from either the Clearing Member or
LCH.Clearnet SA to or from the other in relation to the CDS Clearing Service
pursuant to the CDS Clearing Documentation; and

(v)

in respect of a Non-Defaulting Clearing Member's House Margin Account, such
Clearing Member's Contribution Balance and in the case of a CCM, the
repayment or redelivery by LCH.Clearnet SA of all Collateral recorded as CCM
Available Client Collateral Buffer in its Buffer Collateral Account (if any) in each
case without applying any haircuts to the valuation of the Collateral.

CDS Repayment Amount

LCH.Clearnet SA shall calculate the CDS Repayment Amount separately in respect of each
Non-Defaulting Clearing Member's House Account Structure and each of its Client Account
Structures in accordance with the following:
(i)

LCH.Clearnet SA shall establish the value of (a) each Cleared Transaction as a result of
the termination of each payment or delivery which would otherwise have been required
to be made under the relevant Cleared Transaction (assuming satisfaction of each
applicable condition precedent and based on its determination of the observable market
price to be determined in accordance with Clause 8.3 below) and without application of

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

204

Published on 14 April 2016

the Loss Distribution Process, (b) any net Cash Gainer Adjustments to be repaid to the
Clearing Member; (c) the Variation Margin(s) to be repaid by the Clearing Member or
LCH.Clearnet SA to the other; and (d) any other amounts that may be due to or from
LCH.Clearnet SA in relation to Cleared Transactions pursuant to the CDS Clearing
Rules, but excluding any repayment or redelivery obligations relating to any relevant
Margin Balance, Excess Collateral and/or the Client Collateral Buffer; and
(ii)

8.3

on the basis of the sums so established, an account shall be taken of the amounts owed
by either the Clearing Member or LCH.Clearnet SA to the other and the sums due from
one shall be set off against the sums due from the other and only the balance shall be
payable by either the Clearing Member or LCH.Clearnet SA to the other.
Observable Market Price

For the purpose of determining an observable market price for each Cleared Transaction
pursuant to Clause 8.2(i) above, LCH.Clearnet SA shall use its best efforts to determine the
price of the relevant Cleared Transactions as at the end of the Business Day following the Early
Termination Trigger Date, using such sources as it believes reasonable to provide the value of
such Cleared Transactions. In doing so, LCH.Clearnet SA would be expected to use the
following sources in order of descending priority as valuation points:
(i)

the end of day settlement prices published by another reputable clearing house
operating in respect of CDS for the relevant valuation day;

(ii)

other objective and observable market prices for the relevant valuation day; and

(iii)

the mean settlement price for the relevant valuation day, calculated on the basis of a
broad-based survey of market participants active in trading CDS.

8.4

Available CDS Funds

Following its determination of the CDS Repayment Amount in relation to each of the NonDefaulting Clearing Member's House Account Structure and each of its Client Account
Structures, LCH.Clearnet SA shall calculate the Available CDS Funds as the sum equal to the
aggregate of the Negative CDS Repayment Amounts in respect of each Non-Defaulting
Clearing Member.
Where the Available CDS Funds are less than the aggregate amount of Positive CDS
Repayment Amounts, LCH.Clearnet SA shall calculate the Discounted CDS Repayment
Amount for each Positive CDS Repayment Amount payable to a Non-Defaulting Clearing
Member by multiplying each such Positive CDS Repayment Amount by the fraction determined
by dividing A by B, where "A" is the Available CDS Funds and "B" is the aggregate amount of
Positive CDS Repayment Amounts.
8.5

LCH Repayment Amounts

Following the calculation of each CDS Repayment Amount, or Discounted CDS Repayment
Amount as the case may be, pursuant to Clauses 8.1 to 8.4 above, LCH.Clearnet SA shall
calculate a LCH repayment amount separately in respect of each Non-Defaulting Clearing
Member's (i) House Account Structure (the "House LCH Repayment Amount") and (ii) each of
its Client Account Structures ("Client LCH Repayment Amount") (the "House LCH Repayment
Amount" and "Client LCH Repayment Amount" being together referred to as the "LCH
Repayment Amounts"). The LCH Repayment Amounts shall be determined as set out below.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

205

Published on 14 April 2016

LCH.Clearnet SA shall calculate in respect of the House Account Structure and each of the
Client Account Structures of each Non-Defaulting Clearing Member, the value of Collateral
recorded in the relevant Collateral Account, in each case without applying any haircuts to the
valuation of the Collateral. Such amounts calculated in respect of each Margin Account (the
"Margin Repayment Amounts") shall also include:
(i) in respect of a CCM Client Margin Account, any Collateral transferred (or due to be
transferred) to the relevant CCM Client Collateral Account by LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to
Clause 8.1.3); and
(ii) in respect of any House Margin Account, such Non-Defaulting Clearing Member's
Contribution Balance and in the case of a CCM, the repayment or redelivery by
LCH.Clearnet SA of all Collateral recorded as CCM Available Client Collateral Buffer in its
Buffer Collateral Account (if any),
Such amount shall not include any Variation Margin, Pledged Eligible Collateral, CCM
Unallocated Client Collateral or FCM Unallocated Client Excess Collateral returned to the
relevant Non-Defaulting Clearing Member in accordance with Clause 8.7.
The Margin Repayment Amounts shall become immediately due and payable to the Clearing
Member. In determining such amounts, LCH.Clearnet SA shall not separately value, nor take
into account, as an amount due to the Clearing Member, any Collateral:
(i)

in respect of which the value has been accounted for in the determination of the value of
any Cleared Transaction;

(ii)

which the Clearing Member has transferred to LCH.Clearnet SA other than on a full title
transfer basis and which the Clearing Member will otherwise receive back in accordance
with the CDS Clearing Rules; or

(iii)

which LCH.Clearnet SA has applied in order to reduce its loss in accordance with Article
4.3.3.1 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book and the CDS Default Management Process.

LCH.Clearnet SA shall then, for the House Account Structure and each of the Client Account
Structures of the Non-Defaulting Clearing Member: (a) aggregate each positive CDS
Repayment Amount, or Discounted CDS Repayment Amount, as the case may be, with the
Margin Repayment Amounts, or (b) net and set off each Negative CDS Repayment Amount
with the Margin Repayment Amounts, in each case to produce the House LCH Repayment
Amount in respect of the House Account Structure and a Client LCH Repayment Amount for
each of the Client Account Structures, respectively.
Where the determination in accordance with this Clause 8.5 produces positive amounts,
LCH.Clearnet SA shall pay the LCH Repayment Amounts to the Clearing Member in
accordance with Clause 8.7 and, where it produces negative amounts, the Clearing Member
shall pay the LCH Repayment Amounts to LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Clause 8.7.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

206

Published on 14 April 2016

8.6

Notification of LCH Repayment Amounts

LCH.Clearnet SA shall notify each Clearing Member of the LCH Repayment Amounts which it
will pay to the relevant Clearing Member, or which the relevant Clearing Member is required to
pay to LCH.Clearnet SA, as the case may be. Such notification shall be made promptly and by
no later than:
(i)

15.00 on the Early Termination Trigger Date, where a determination is made by
LCH.Clearnet SA prior to 10.00 on the Early Termination Trigger Date, or

(ii)

15.00 on the first Business Day following the Early Termination Trigger Date, where a
determination is made by LCH.Clearnet SA after 10.00 on the Early Termination Trigger
Date.

This notification shall show in reasonable detail how the LCH Repayment Amount has been
calculated by LCH.Clearnet SA.
Prior to making such notification, LCH.Clearnet SA shall determine whether it has sufficient
funds in place in order to repay the aggregate of all Margin Repayment Amounts. If
LCH.Clearnet SA determines that it is unable to pay the aggregate amount of the Margin
Repayment Amounts, LCH.Clearnet SA shall notify the Clearing Members by the times set out
in (i) and (ii) by posting such notice on its Website.
8.7

Payment of LCH Repayment Amounts and repayment/redelivery of Collateral

Where the House LCH Repayment Amount and/or the Client LCH Repayment Amount is to be
paid to LCH.Clearnet SA by a Clearing Member, it shall be paid in Euro by 15.00 on the
Business Day following notification in accordance with Clause 8.6.
Where the House LCH Repayment Amount and/or the Client LCH Repayment Amount is to be
paid by LCH.Clearnet SA to a Clearing Member, it shall be paid in Euro by 17.00 on the
Business Day following notification in accordance with Clause 8.6.
Any Pledged Eligible Collateral (other than Pledged Eligible Collateral which LCH.Clearnet SA
has applied in order to reduce its loss in accordance with Article 4.3.3.1 or the CDS Default
Management Process) which the Clearing Member has transferred to LCH.Clearnet SA shall
be redelivered by LCH.Clearnet SA to a Clearing Member by 17.00 on the Business Day
following notification in accordance with Clause 8.6.
In addition, to the extent a CCM has any CCM Unallocated Client Collateral or an FCM
Clearing Member has any FCM Unallocated Client Excess Collateral, LCH.Clearnet SA shall
repay such Collateral to the Clearing Member for the account of its Clients by 17:00 on the
Business Day following notification in accordance with Clause 8.6.

8.8

Recalculation of Available CDS Funds

In the event that LCH.Clearnet SA does not receive the aggregate LCH Repayment Amounts
due to it from Clearing Members in full by the time specified in Clause 8.7, LCH.Clearnet SA
shall reduce each LCH Repayment Amount it is due to pay (which includes a Positive CDS
Repayment Amount or Discounted CDS Repayment Amount, as the case may be) by an
amount equal to the relevant Clearing Member’s pro rata share of the shortfall.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

207

Published on 14 April 2016

8.9

Recovery of LCH Repayment Amounts

If at any time LCH.Clearnet SA recovers amounts in addition to the CDS Available Funds
calculated pursuant to Clause 8.4, or receives LCH Repayment Amounts from Clearing
Members after the time specified in Clause 8.7 and following the adjustments contemplated by
Clause 8.8, it shall promptly make such further payments in respect of any House Margin
Account, CCM Client Account Structure or FCM Client Margin Account for which a discount to
the relevant CDS Repayment Amount was applied in accordance with Clause 8.5 pro rata the
amount of the discounts applied across all such House Margin Account, CCM Client Account
Structure or FCM Client Margin Account.
8.10

Conversion

For the purposes of any calculation required to be made under this Clause 8, any sums
calculated other than in Euro shall be converted into Euro at the relevant exchange rate as at
17.00 on the Early Termination Trigger Date. The relevant exchange rate shall be determined by
the European Central Bank and taken from Reuters or, where not available for the relevant
currency, such other provider as is notified in a Clearing Notice.
8.11

No Rebate

Subject to the obligations of LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to Clause 8.9 above, the payment by
LCH.Clearnet SA of any LCH Repayment Amount to a Non-Defaulting Clearing Member shall
be final. Any claim by a Clearing Member to recover amounts owed to it as a result of the
adjustment of the CDS Repayment Amount pursuant to Clause 8.3 or 8.8 above shall be
extinguished and the relevant Clearing Member shall have no further recourse to LCH.Clearnet
SA in respect thereof.
8.12

LCH Default

Any failure by LCH.Clearnet SA to pay any LCH Repayment Amount in full to a Clearing
Member, other than by operation of Clause 8.8, shall constitute an event falling within Article
1.3.1.1(ii).

9

Information regarding the CDS Default Management Process
9.1

Notifications

Whenever the CDS Default Management Process is implemented by LCH.Clearnet SA in
respect of a Defaulting Clearing Member, LCH.Clearnet SA will, with the assistance of the CDS
Default Management Group, provide such ongoing information to Clearing Members as
LCH.Clearnet SA deems reasonably appropriate in respect of the progress of the CDS Default
Management Process.
In particular LCH.Clearnet SA shall notify each Clearing Member:
9.1.1

when a Default Notice has been issued in respect of a Clearing Member, in accordance
with Article 4.3.1.3

9.1.2

in advance of both the first and second round of Competitive Bidding, as the case may
be, those items listed in Clause 5.4.2;

9.1.3

whether or not a grace period has been granted to Auction Participants as a whole, or a
particular Auction Participant, pursuant to Clause 5.4.3;

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

208

Published on 14 April 2016

9.1.4

whether or not some or all of their Bid(s) have been deemed to be Market Bid(s) in the
course of either the first or second round of Competitive Bidding (if applicable);

9.1.5

whether or not they are an Initial Winning Bidder, what the Initial Allocation Price is and
what the Initial Transfer Payable or Initial Transfer Receivable, as the case may be, is
in accordance with Clause 5.6.4 and/or Clause 5.8.1;

9.1.6

whether or not they have been deemed a Non Bidder, what the Non Bidder Allocation
Price is and what the Initial Transfer Payable or Initial Transfer Receivable, as the case
may be, is in accordance with Clause 5.6.3;

9.1.7

which Transfer Positions are to be registered within its Account Structure as a result of
being deemed an Initial Winning Bidder or a Non Bidder, as the case may be, in
respect of the first round of Competitive Bidding and in respect thereof:
(i)

what the procedure and timeline will be for registration of the Transfer Positions,
arising from the first round of Competitive Bidding, within its Account Structure;

(ii)

prior to registering the Transfer Positions within its Account Structure, what the
increase to the Winning Bidder’s House Margin Requirement or Client Margin
Requirement (as the case may be) will be;

(iii)

prior to registering the Transfer Positions within its Account Structure, what the
Initial Transfer Payable, or the Initial Transfer Receivable, as appropriate, will be

9.1.8

whether or not a second round of Competitive Bidding will be held;

9.1.9

to the extent a second round of Competitive Bidding is held, whether or not they are the
holder of a Residual Winning Bid, what the Residual Allocation Price is and what the
Residual Transfer Payable or Residual Transfer Receivable, as the case may be, is;

9.1.10 which Transfer Positions are to be registered within its Account Structure as a result of
being deemed an Residual Winning Bidder or a Non Bidder, as the case may be, in
respect of the second round of Competitive Bidding and in respect thereof:
(i)

what the procedure and timeline will be for registration of the Transfer Positions,
arising from the second round of Competitive Bidding, within its Account
Structure;

(ii)

prior to registering the Transfer Positions within its Account Structure, what the
increase to the Winning Bidder’s House Margin Requirement or Client Margin
Requirement (as the case may be) will be;

(iii)

prior to registering the Transfer Positions within its Account Structure, what the
Residual Transfer Payable or the Residual Transfer Receivable, as appropriate,
will be; and

9.1.11 where LCH.Clearnet SA has determined that its financial resources are not sufficient to
meet its obligations arising from either the first or second round of Competitive Bidding,
as the case may be, in accordance with Clause 5.8.1, of the failure of Competitive
Bidding and the occurrence of an LCH Default.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

209

Published on 14 April 2016

9.2

Sensitive Information

Nothing in this Clause 9 shall require LCH.Clearnet SA to disclose information in respect of the
CDS Default Management Process which, in the reasonable opinion of LCH.Clearnet SA, may
be subject to obligations of confidentiality, may constitute market sensitive data or is, in
LCH.Clearnet SA’s reasonable opinion, inappropriate for disclosure to Clearing Members.
9.3

Competitive Bidding

The Nominated Representative will ensure that the identity of each Auction Participant is not
revealed to the Clearing Member representatives on the CDS Default Management Group.

10

Role and Constitution of the CDS Default Management Committee
10.1

Role

The CDS Default Management Committee shall meet at regular intervals (at least quarterly) in
order to:
10.1.1 determine the provisions of the CDS Default Management Guidance Manual that will
supplement the principles set out in the CDS Default Management Process and assist
the members of the CDS Default Management Group in implementing the CDS Default
Management Process;
10.1.2 keep both the CDS Default Management Process and the CDS Default Management
Guidance Manual under review and to assist LCH.Clearnet SA in the design, testing
and further improvement of the CDS Default Management Process;
10.1.3 participate in regular fire drills in relation to the CDS Default Management Process;
10.1.4 keep Section 9 of Part A or Part B, as applicable, of the CDS Clearing Supplement and
Section 4.2 of the Procedures under review and assist members of the CDS Default
Management Group in implementing the auction procedure to terminate any Self
Referencing Transactions and enter into equivalent Single Name Cleared Transactions;
10.1.5 keep under review the Terms of Reference for both the CDS Default Management
Committee and the CDS Default Management Group to ensure they remain
appropriate;
10.1.6 maintain and keep under review the DMG Rotation Plan, as described at Clause 11.2.2
below;
10.1.7 consider appropriate supplements or amendments to the CDS Default Management
Process and/or the CDS Default Management Guidance Manual in order to improve
the procedures in place;
10.1.8 keep under review the manner in which Auction Participants should be encouraged and
incentivised to participate in Competitive Bidding and the consequences (if any) for
non-participation or non market participation in Competitive Bidding; and
10.1.9 consider any other business relevant to the CDS Default Management Process which
any member of the CDS Default Management Committee from time to time sees fit to
raise at such meetings.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

210

Published on 14 April 2016

10.2

Composition

The CDS Default Management Committee shall be made up of the following individuals, each
to be appointed by LCH.Clearnet SA, in consultation with the Risk Committee:
10.2.1 representatives nominated by each of the Clearing Members (including, without
limitation, those DMG Representatives that have been appointed, or will be appointed
within the next 6 months, on behalf of a Clearing Member to the CDS Default
Management Group in accordance with the DMG Rotation Plan) with appropriate skills
and expertise who shall participate in the design and testing, etc of the CDS Default
Management Process;
10.2.2 at least one director (staff member of director grade) of the LCH.Clearnet SA Risk
Management department, who shall be appointed as the vice-chairman of the CDS
Default Management Committee by the LCH.Clearnet SA chief executive; and
10.2.3 such other individuals as the CDS Default Management Committee and/or the Risk
Committee considers appropriate from time to time in relation to such meetings.
In making such appointments, LCH.Clearnet SA shall ensure that the composition of the CDS
Default Management Committee is such as to provide effective review of the CDS Default
Management Process and has suitable expertise and representation of market-making capacity
in the event of an Event of Default.
In carrying out each appointment, LCH.Clearnet SA shall require each representative of a
Clearing Member mentioned in Clause 10.2.1 and each individual mentioned in Clause 10.2.3
to file a Fitness Self Certification and a CV with LCH.Clearnet SA. LCH.Clearnet SA shall be
permitted to undertake reasonable diligence in respect of each of them before appointing them
as members of the CDS Default Management Committee, and may require a Clearing Member
to nominate alternative representative(s) if it is not reasonably satisfied that the proposed
representative(s) comply with the requirements set out in Clause 10.2.1 and/or refuse to
appoint any individual mentioned in Clause 10.2.3.

11

Role and Constitution of the CDS Default Management Group
11.1

Role

11.1.1 CDS Default Management Process
The CDS Default Management Group shall meet within one hour, or as soon as reasonably
practical, following notification by LCH.Clearnet SA that a Clearing Member is the subject of
an Event of Default in accordance with Article 4.3.1.2, and at sufficiently frequent intervals
thereafter for so long as may be necessary to assist LCH.Clearnet SA in the implementation
of the CDS Default Management Process. Such implementation shall include, without
limitation, the provision of default management advice with regard to:
(i)

the ongoing obligations of LCH.Clearnet SA to Non-Defaulting Clearing Members;

(ii)

Hedging and closing-out of Cleared Transactions registered in the name of the
Defaulting Clearing Member; and

(iii)

the registration of Transfer Positions in accordance with the CDS Default
Management Process.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

211

Published on 14 April 2016

11.1.2 Auctions in respect of Self Referencing Transactions
In the event that LCH.Clearnet SA determines to conduct an auction pursuant to Section 9
of Part A or Part B, as applicable, of the CDS Clearing Supplement, the CDS Default
Management Group shall meet as soon as reasonably practical, following notification by
LCH.Clearnet SA that an auction to terminate any Self Referencing Transactions and enter
into equivalent Single Name Cleared Transactions is required, and at sufficiently frequent
intervals thereafter for so long as may be necessary to assist LCH.Clearnet SA in the
implementation of the relevant auction procedure.
11.2

Composition

11.2.1 Membership
The CDS Default Management Group shall be made up of the following individuals each to
be appointed by LCH.Clearnet SA in consultation with the CDS Default Management
Committee and the Risk Committee:
(i)

the Global Head of CDSClear who shall act as chairman or any director of CDSClear
as may be appointed by the Chairman as the Vice Chairman;

(ii)

representatives from the trading function of at least five Clearing Members, being
senior executives with appropriate skills and expertise, knowledge of the CDS Default
Management Process and experience of fire drills undertaken by the CDS Default
Management Committee, who shall be nominated by the relevant Clearing Members
and appointed in accordance with Clause 11.2.2 below;

(iii)

at least one director (staff member of director grade) of the LCH.Clearnet SA risk
management department; and

(iv)

such other individuals as the CDS Default Management Group considers appropriate
from time to time in relation to individual meetings.

In making such appointments, LCH.Clearnet SA shall ensure that the composition of the
CDS Default Management Group is such as to provide effective review of the CDS Default
Management Process and has suitable expertise and representation of market-making
capacity in the event of an Event of Default.
11.2.2 Appointment of Clearing Member representatives
Each Clearing Member is required to notify LCH.Clearnet SA of at least two representatives
that can be called upon to participate, on behalf of that Clearing Member, as a member of
the CDS Default Management Group in accordance with a rotational plan maintained by the
CDS Default Management Committee in accordance with Clause 10.1.6 above ("DMG
Representatives").
In nominating DMG Representatives, each Clearing Member shall identify a representative
that shall be its principal DMG Representative and representative(s) that shall be its back-up
DMG Representative(s).
Each proposed DMG Representative and each individual mentioned in Clause 11.2.1(iv)
shall be required to file a Fitness Self Certification and a CV with LCH.Clearnet SA.
LCH.Clearnet SA shall be permitted to undertake reasonable diligence in respect of any
proposed DMG Representative before approving such representative’s inclusion, on behalf
of the relevant Clearing Member, on the rotational plan (the "DMG Rotation Plan") and may
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

212

Published on 14 April 2016

require a Clearing Member to nominate alternative DMG Representative(s) if it is not
reasonably satisfied that the nominated representative(s) comply with the requirements set
out in Clause 11.2.1(ii). LCH.Clearnet SA shall also be permitted to undertake reasonable
diligence in respect of any individual mentioned in Clause 11.2.1(iv) and to refuse to appoint
any such individual.
The DMG Rotation Plan will be managed by the CDS Default Management Committee in
accordance with the following principles:
(i)

the DMG Rotation Plan will list all DMG Representatives and the Clearing Member
that each DMG Representative represents;

(ii)

the DMG Rotation Plan will set out a timetable for the appointment/retirement of
Clearing Members to/from the CDS Default Management Group, the timetable being
set by the CDS Default Management Committee in its discretion with a view to
ensuring that the composition of the CDS Default Management Group at any one time
has suitable expertise and representation of market-making capacity in the event of a
default;

(iii)

at least five different Clearing Members shall be appointed to the CDS Default
Management Group at any one time. For the avoidance of doubt, in the event that the
CDS Default Management Group is required to convene in accordance with Clause
11.1.1, a Clearing Member that has been appointed to the CDS Default Management
Group shall be permitted to provide any (but not all) of its principal or back up DMG
Representatives to assist LCH.Clearnet SA in the management of the relevant Event
of Default;

(iv)

the duration of each Clearing Member’s appointment to the CDS Default
Management Group shall be for a minimum of 6 months and a maximum of 5 years
(at the discretion of the relevant Clearing Member) (the "DMG Term");

(v)

at the end of a Clearing Member’s DMG Term (save where the expiry of such DMG
Term arises in the course of management of an Event of Default, in which case the
Clearing Member’s DMG Term shall be extended at the discretion of the CDS Default
Management Committee), the DMG Representatives representing such Clearing
Member shall retire from the CDS Default Management Group and DMG
Representatives (representing a different Clearing Member), as set out in the DMG
Rotation Plan, shall be appointed to the CDS Default Management Group
simultaneously in his/her place(s);

(vi)

only two Clearing Members may retire from the CDS Default Management Group and
be replaced, in accordance with paragraph (v) above, in any 3 month period so as to
maintain continuity of participation in the CDS Default Management Group.

11.2.3 Additional members
Following consultation with the CDS Default Management Group, LCH.Clearnet SA may
invite the Defaulting Clearing Member to nominate one or more representatives to join the
CDS Default Management Group to assist it in carrying out its functions under the CDS
Default Management Process for that Defaulting Clearing Member. LCH.Clearnet SA may
also request that representatives from other Clearing Members join the CDS Default
Management Group, following consultation with the CDS Default Management Group.
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

213

Published on 14 April 2016

In the event of receiving such request, the Defaulting Clearing Member and/or the Clearing
Member, as appropriate, will be obliged to provide its CDS Default Management Committee
representative, or an alternate with appropriate skills, experience and expertise as if that
representative were a member of the CDS Default Management Committee, to participate in
the CDS Default Management Group. The CDS Default Management Committee shall be
able to request a substitute where it believes the Defaulting Clearing Member and/or the
Clearing Member's nominated representative, as appropriate, does not have the requisite
skills or expertise.
11.3

Organisation

11.3.1 Clearing Member undertakings
Each Clearing Member who makes available a DMG Member agrees, and shall procure that
to, the extent applicable, its DMG Member agrees:

12

(i)

to ensure that its DMG Member will be fully available, at any time and for such
periods of time as LCH.Clearnet SA may require during the course of an Event of
Default, to perform his function as a member of the CDS Default Management Group
including attending meetings, considering and advising LCH.Clearnet SA upon
aspects of the CDS Default Management Process. The Clearing Member shall ensure
that its DMG Member's other work commitments do not affect his availability for this
purpose;

(ii)

to take all steps to respect the confidential capacity in which such a representative
receives information through the CDS Default Management Group and to establish
adequate procedures to prevent the disclosure or use for any commercial purpose
outside the scope of the CDS Default Management Process of any such confidential
information by the Clearing Member or its DMG Member. Such procedures shall
normally include, without limitation, the establishment of Information Barriers within
the Clearing Member; and

(iii)

to be bound by and to ensure that it and any of its executives, directors or employees
serving on the CDS Default Management Group complies with the attached Annex
covering confidentiality, non-disclosure and other terms.

Participation in the CDS Default Management Committee and CDS Default
Management Group
12.1

No liability

Each Clearing Member shall accept that representatives of Clearing Members serving on the
CDS Default Management Committee and DMG Members are doing so in order to assist
LCH.Clearnet SA in ensuring the ongoing integrity of the CDS Clearing Service in the interests
of Non-Defaulting Clearing Members, and that those representatives/DMG Members or their
employers, shall have no liability for any disinterested advice or actions, mandated or
otherwise, that are undertaken as part of the CDS Default Management Process.
12.2

LCH.Clearnet SA’s Actions

LCH.Clearnet SA agrees that, in exercising its rights and obligations in consulting with the CDS
Default Management Committee or the CDS Default Management Group, as the case may be,
pursuant to the CDS Default Management Process, it will use all reasonable commercial
endeavours to agree a common position with the CDS Default Management Committee or the
_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

214

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Default Management Group, as appropriate, provided that nothing in this Clause 12.2
shall prevent LCH.Clearnet SA acting in a way which it reasonably determines necessary to
manage its risk or otherwise meet its continuing obligations as a clearing house under the
supervision of its Competent Authorities.

13

Subsistence of the CDS Default Management Process
13.1

Applications for membership

Every Applicant shall be required to execute the CDS Admission Agreement, a condition of
which shall be an undertaking to adhere to the CDS Default Management Process, failing which
an application for membership shall not be approved by LCH.Clearnet SA.
13.2

Condition of Continuing Membership

Each Clearing Member shall be required to participate in the CDS Default Management
Process as a condition of continuing membership of the CDS Clearing Service.
13.3

Automatic Termination

Save with regard to the provisions of Clause 13.4, the CDS Default Management Process shall
cease to bind a Clearing Member immediately upon Membership Termination.
13.4

Survival

Membership Termination shall not affect any accrued rights or liabilities of either LCH.Clearnet
SA or the Clearing Member nor shall it affect the coming into force or the continuance in force of
any provision of the CDS Default Management Process which is expressly or by implication
intended to come into or continue in force on or after that termination, including without
limitation the provisions of Clauses 2.3, 11.2, 11.3, 13 and 14.

14

Liability of LCH.Clearnet SA
The liability of LCH.Clearnet SA to Clearing Members shall be as detailed in Section 1.2.10.

15

Governing Law
The CDS Default Management Process shall be governed by and construed in accordance with
the laws of France.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

215

Published on 14 April 2016

Annex
Confidentiality, non-disclosure and participation in the CDS Default Management
Group
General obligations of the Clearing Member
1

Confidentiality
1.1

The Clearing Member agrees that, in consideration of being given Confidential
Material, it will keep all such Confidential Material in the strictest confidence, adhere
to the provisions of the CDS Default Management Process in respect thereof and,
subject to paragraph 1.3, will not disclose it to any person without the prior written
permission of the managing director of the LCH.Clearnet SA risk management
department, providing always that the Clearing Member shall be relieved of such an
obligation of confidentiality in respect of any Confidential Material if:

1.1.1 it comes into the public domain other than through a breach by the Clearing Member of the
CDS Default Management Process; or
1.1.2 the Clearing Member is expressly obliged to do so by order of a court of competent
jurisdiction upon the application of a third party, or as a result of any request to disclose
such part or parts of the Confidential Material in connection with any inquiry or other request
by a regulatory authority or self-regulatory authority asserting jurisdiction over the Clearing
Member.
1.2

The Clearing Member further agrees that it will not use any Confidential Material for
any purpose other than the Permitted Purpose. In this regard the Clearing Member
expressly acknowledges and agrees that the Confidential Material may contain
commercially sensitive information which if used inappropriately or otherwise than in
accordance with the CDS Default Management Process might result in the gaining
of an unfair commercial advantage by the Clearing Member over other Clearing
Members.

1.3

Subject to paragraph 1.5, the Clearing Member may disclose any Confidential
Material to any of its employees, representatives, associated companies and
advisers on a "strictly need to know" basis, in the event that any such person needs
that Confidential Material for the Permitted Purpose (and to that extent only),
provided that the Clearing Member notifies the vice-chairman of the CDS Default
Management Committee prior to such disclosure.

1.4

The Clearing Member agrees to establish and adhere to adequate procedures
(including, without limitation, the establishment of appropriate Information Barriers)
to ensure that any employee or representative to whom any Confidential Material is
disclosed shall not use any part or all of that Confidential Material for any proprietary
purpose outside the scope of the Permitted Purpose.

1.5

This paragraph and the duties hereunder shall survive the termination of the CDS
Default Management Process and, in relation to any Confidential Material, shall
expire on the second anniversary of the date the Confidential Material was first
provided to the Clearing Member, without prejudice to confidentiality obligations
under any Applicable Law which would prevent the Clearing Member from disclosing

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

216

Published on 14 April 2016

or using any Confidential Material otherwise than pursuant to and in accordance
with paragraphs 1.1 to 1.4 above.

2

Secrecy
2.1

Except in accordance with the terms of this Annex, the Clearing Member agrees that
it shall treat as strictly confidential and shall not disclose or allow to be divulged to
any person:

2.1.1 Confidential Material;
2.1.2 the fact that it has received any Confidential Material;
2.1.3 the existence of any discussions or negotiations between the parties in this matter.
2.1.4 details of the Permitted Purpose and any of the proposals, terms, conditions, facts or other
matters relating to any of the foregoing. Subject only to the Clearing Member being relieved
of such an obligation because of the circumstances covered in paragraphs 1.1.1 and 1.1.2.
2.2

3

LCH.Clearnet SA undertakes to ensure that the Clearing Member is fully appraised
of information on the CDS Default Management Process that it makes public and
which is accordingly of relevance to the Clearing Member's obligations.

Property
The parties acknowledge that the property in the Confidential Material (or any part of it)
shall not pass to the Clearing Member or any Clearing Member, and the property in the
media on which it is conveyed to the receiving party shall not pass to the Clearing Member
or any Clearing Member unless expressly so agreed by LCH.Clearnet SA in writing.

4

Return of Confidential Material
Upon request by LCH.Clearnet SA, and in any event upon fulfilment of the Permitted
Purpose, the Clearing Member shall promptly return to LCH.Clearnet SA by a secure
method of transportation all or any part of the Confidential Material and all copies thereof in
its possession or control or that of its employees or representatives, including all other
papers, programs and records incorporating any of that Confidential Material, or shall
destroy such information and shall certify to LCH.Clearnet SA in writing that it has done so
provided that the Clearing Member is permitted to retain copies of any Confidential
Material which it requires as part of its portfolio management or otherwise for legal or
regulatory reasons.

5

No Representations or Warranties; No Conflict of Interest
5.1

Subject to references made in paragraph 6, the Confidential Material is disclosed by
LCH.Clearnet SA without any representation or warranty whatsoever as to its
accuracy or completeness or otherwise.

5.2

LCH.Clearnet SA acknowledges and agrees that, subject to compliance with the
terms of this Annex by the Clearing Member and any of its employees or
representatives to whom Confidential Material is provided in accordance with this
Annex, the Clearing Member's participation in the CDS Default Management

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

217

Published on 14 April 2016

Process shall not prevent the Clearing Member from carrying out any transaction, or
otherwise providing investment services in respect of, investments that the Clearing
Member may subsequently learn are the subject of Confidential Material and,
furthermore, LCH.Clearnet SA agrees that it shall not be able to assert that the
Clearing Member has a conflict of interest in doing so nor shall LCH.Clearnet SA
have a claim or action in respect of the foregoing against the Clearing Member or
any of its directors, employees or other representatives.

6

Remedies
Without affecting any other rights or remedies that LCH.Clearnet SA may have, the
Clearing Member acknowledges that LCH.Clearnet SA may be irreparably harmed by any
breach of the terms of the CDS Default Management Process and that damages alone
may not necessarily be an adequate remedy. Accordingly, LCH.Clearnet SA will be entitled
to the remedies of injunction, specific performance and other equitable relief, or any
combination of these remedies, for any threatened or actual breach of its terms, and not
proof of special damages will be necessary to enforce the CDS Default Management
Process.

General Terms of Participation in the CDS Default Management Group
7

Conflict of interest
The Clearing Member shall procure that, in the event that a DMG Member takes the view
that a possible conflict of interest may arise with regard to any matter forming part of the
business of the CDS Default Management Group, he shall promptly report his view to the
Chairman of the CDS Default Management Group, who shall act accordingly, taking the
advice of other DMG Members as appropriate.

8

Confidentiality
8.1

Subject to paragraph 8.3 below, the Clearing Member shall procure that the DMG
Member shall keep all Confidential Material strictly confidential to himself and will
not disclose it to any person who is not a DMG Member (including, for the avoidance
of doubt, the Clearing Member who recommended his appointment to the CDS
Default Management Group or his employer (if different) or any other employee,
adviser, officer or fellow worker of that Clearing Member or his employer) without the
prior written permission of the managing director of LCH.Clearnet SA’s risk
management department or his properly authorised delegate, providing always that
the DMG Member shall be relieved of such an obligation of confidentiality in respect
of any Confidential Material if it comes into the public domain in the circumstances
covered in paragraphs 1.1.1 and 1.1.2.

8.2

Subject to paragraph 8.3 below, the Clearing Member shall procure that the DMG
Member shall not use any Confidential Material for any purpose other than the
proper fulfilment of his duties as a DMG Member.

8.3

The parties acknowledge that, where LCH.Clearnet SA has declared an Event of
Default in accordance with Article 4.3.1.2, the DMG Member may be required by a
Clearing Member and/or his employer (if different) to provide certain services to

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

218

Published on 14 April 2016

LCH.Clearnet SA in the management of the default. In such event, and only in such
event, the parties acknowledge that the DMG Member shall be entitled to disclose
any part or parts of the Confidential Material as may be agreed by LCH.Clearnet SA,
in such manner and form and in accordance with such procedures as may
prescribed by LCH.Clearnet SA and/or the CDS Default Management Group with
regard to the management of that default.
8.4

9

Upon request by LCH.Clearnet SA, and in any event upon termination of the
membership of the DMG Member of the CDS Default Management Group, the
Clearing Member shall procure that the DMG Member shall promptly return to
LCH.Clearnet SA by a secure method of transportation all or any part of the
Confidential Material and all copies thereof in his possession or control, including all
abstracts, notes, drawings and other papers, programs and records incorporating
any of that Confidential Material, or shall destroy such information and shall certify to
LCH.Clearnet SA in writing that it has done so, provided that the DMG Member is
permitted to retain a copy thereof to comply with applicable legal or regulatory
requirements.

Warranty and representation
The Clearing Member represents and warrants that it will procure that:
9.1

the Clearing Member and the DMG Member's employer (if different) are aware of
the obligations of confidentiality arising out of the CDS Default Management
Process; and

9.2

nothing in the CDS Default Management Process will cause the DMG Member to
breach any duty or obligation (whether arising pursuant to contract or otherwise)
which he owes to the Clearing Member or to his employer, if different, or any other
contract counterparty of the DMG Member.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

219

Published on 14 April 2016

EXHIBIT E-5

LCH.Clearnet SA
CDS Clearing Supplement
18 April 2016

This document is for use with the clearing of index linked transactions and single
name transactions. The CDS Clearing Supplement is split into two parts, Part A and
Part B.
Part A of the CDS Clearing Supplement shall only be used in connection with any
single name transactions or components of index linked transactions that incorporate
the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions, as published by the International
Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc.
Part B of the CDS Clearing Supplement shall only be used in connection with any
single name transactions or components of index linked transactions that incorporate
the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions, as published by the International
Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

2

Published on 14 April 2016

PART A
CDS CLEARING SUPPLEMENT
FOR INDEX CLEARED TRANSACTIONS AND SINGLE NAME TRANSACTIONS
INCORPORATING THE 2003 ISDA CREDIT DERIVATIVES DEFINITIONS

CONTENTS
SECTION

PAGE

1.

GENERAL PROVISIONS ................................................................................... 4

2.

TERMS OF CLEARED TRANSACTIONS ........................................................ 17

3.

PAYMENTS AND DELIVERIES ....................................................................... 24

4.

CREDIT EVENTS, SUCCESSION EVENTS AND RENAME EVENTS ........... 25

5.

RESTRUCTURING .......................................................................................... 30

6.

PHYSICAL SETTLEMENT ............................................................................... 32

7.

DELIVERY OF NOTICES AND FALLBACKS .................................................. 46

8.

MATCHED PAIR DESIGNATIONS AND NOTICES ......................................... 57

9.

SELF-REFERENCING TRANSACTIONS ........................................................ 62

10. MANDATORY PROVISIONS FOR CCM CLIENT TRANSACTIONS ............... 67
11. AMENDMENTS ................................................................................................ 67
12. FORMS OF NOTICES ..................................................................................... 68
13. EXCLUSION OF LIABILITY ............................................................................. 68
14. DISPUTE RESOLUTION ................................................................................. 69
15. GOVERNING LAW .......................................................................................... 69

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

3

Published on 14 April 2016

1.

GENERAL PROVISIONS

1.1

Incorporation of Defined Terms
Capitalised terms used in this CDS Clearing Supplement and not otherwise
defined herein shall have the meaning given pursuant to the Index Cleared
Transaction Confirmation, Single Name Cleared Transaction Confirmation,
the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions or the CDS Clearing Rule Book,
as applicable. In the case of any such terms defined in the CDS Clearing
Rule Book, such terms shall be interpreted in accordance with the governing
law specified therefore in the CDS Clearing Rule Book.

1.2

Terms defined in the CDS Clearing Supplement
For the purposes of the CDS Clearing Documentation, the following
capitalised terms shall, unless otherwise specified, have the respective
meanings set out below:
2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions: The 2003 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions published by ISDA as supplemented by the 2009
ISDA Credit Derivatives Determinations Committees, Auction Settlement and
Restructuring Supplement to the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions,
including the DC Rules and Credit Derivatives Auction Settlement Terms
(each as defined therein).
2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions: The 2014 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions published by ISDA.
Affected Cleared Transaction: Following a DC Credit Event Announcement
or a publication by the DC Secretary of:
(a)

a Succession Event Resolution; or

(b)

a DC Resolution that a Substitute Reference Obligation has been
determined,

a Cleared Transaction that references the affected Reference Entity and/or
Reference Obligation, as applicable.
Buy-in Effective Date: As set out at Section 6.8 (Buy-in of Bonds – Matched
Seller has entered into CCM Client Transaction).
CCM Client Cleared Transaction: A Cleared Transaction between a CCM
and LCH.Clearnet SA registered in a CCM Client Trade Account of a CCM.
CCM Client Transaction: A Transaction between a CCM and a CCM Client
which is on the same economic terms as its corresponding CCM Client
Cleared Transaction.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

4

Published on 14 April 2016

CCM Client Transaction Documents: The documentation entered into by a
CCM and its CCM Client to document a CCM Client Transaction.
CDSClear Preferred Reference Obligation This term shall have the
meaning set out in Section 4 of the Procedures.
CDSClear Product Committee: A committee composed of representatives
of LCH.Clearnet SA and representatives of Clearing Members for the
purposes of carrying-out the tasks apportioned to it by the CDS Clearing
Documentation as further described in the terms of reference for such
committee, agreed in consultation with the Clearing Members and as may be
amended from time to time in consultation with the Clearing Members.
CDS Clearing Rule Book: The document entitled "CDS Clearing Rule
Book" published by LCH.Clearnet SA, as amended from time to time.
CDS Type: A class of Cleared Transactions that are identical as to their
terms, except that they may differ as to:
(a)

the Trade Date;

(b)

in respect of Index Cleared Transactions, the Original Notional Amount;

(c)

in respect of Single Name Cleared Transactions, the Effective Date
(provided that the current and future Fixed Rate Payer Calculation
Periods for such Single Name Cleared Transactions are the same), the
Floating Rate Payer Calculation Amount and the Reference Obligation
(provided that LCH.Clearnet SA determines that the Reference
Obligations of the Cleared Transactions are equivalent for the purposes
of this CDS Clearing Supplement);

(d)

the Initial Payment Payer;

(e)

the Initial Payment Amount;

(f)

the Initial Payment Date; and

(g)

the identity of the relevant Buyer and Seller.

CEN Triggering Period: In relation to any Restructuring Cleared
Transaction, the period during which the parties thereto may deliver a
Restructuring Credit Event Notice in relation to all or part of such
Restructuring Cleared Transaction, such period starting at 9:00 a.m. on and
including the earlier to occur of:
(a)

the Transaction Business Day following publication of the related Final
List; and

(b)

the tenth calendar day following the No Auction Announcement Date,

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

5

Published on 14 April 2016

and ending on and including the Exercise Cut-off Date.
Clearing Member Acknowledgement: As set out at Section 7.7 (Clearing
Member Acknowledgements).
Clearing Member Communications Failure Event: As set out at Section
7.4 (Notification of DTCC Failure and Resolution).
Clearing Member Self Referencing Transaction: A Single Name Cleared
Transaction which is registered in the Account Structure of the Clearing
Member and in respect of which, the Reference Entity is either the relevant
Clearing Member or an Affiliate of such Clearing Member.
Client Self Referencing Transaction: A Single Name Cleared Transaction
(a) that is registered in the Client Account Structure of a Clearing Member;
and (b) in respect of which, the Reference Entity is either the relevant Client
or an Affiliate of such Client.
Compression Cut-off Date: The last date on which a Clearing Member may
submit a request for any Cleared Transaction to be compressed pursuant to
the ad hoc compression methodology and on which a daily automatic
compression cycle will be run by LCH.Clearnet SA, in each case in
accordance with Chapter 3 (Compression) of Title III (Clearing Operations) of
the CDS Clearing Rule Book and Section 5 of the Procedures, being:
(a)

in respect of any Index Cleared Transaction, the date falling one
Transaction Business Day prior to the Novation Cut-off Date in respect
of the relevant Eligible Index Version;

(b)

in respect of any Single Name Cleared Transaction and:
(i)

a Restructuring Credit Event, the earlier of (A) the date of
publication of the relevant Initial List (as defined in the DC Rules),
(B) the date falling two Transaction Business Days prior to the
relevant date on which the related RMP Notification Deadline falls
and (C) such other date falling between the dates in (A) and (B),
as determined by LCH.Clearnet SA in consultation with the
CDSClear Product Committee and notified to the relevant
Clearing Members prior to such date; and

(ii)

a Failure to Pay Credit Event or a Bankruptcy Credit Event, the
date falling one Transaction Business Day prior to the calendar
day following the related Auction Final Price Determination Date,
Auction Cancellation Date or No Auction Announcement Date;

(iii)

a Succession Event, a date determined by LCH.Clearnet SA in
consultation with the CDSClear Product Committee, which shall
be not later that the Transaction Business Day before the date on

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

6

Published on 14 April 2016

which DTCC will amend its records in respect of such Single
Name Cleared Transaction to take into account the occurrence of
such Succession Event, and notified to the relevant Clearing
Members prior to such date; and
(iv)

a Rename Event, the Transaction Business Day before the date
on which DTCC will amend its records in respect of Single Name
Cleared Transactions to take into account the occurrence of such
Rename Event.

For the avoidance of doubt, where a Clearing Member has specified
automatic compression on a weekly basis then the last such weekly
automatic compression cycle performed by LCH.Clearnet SA will be
performed on the Clearing Day falling on the Thursday on or before the
relevant Compression Cut-off Date.
DC Restructuring Announcement Date: The date on which the DC Credit
Event Announcement of a Restructuring Credit Event is made, provided that
where such DC Credit Event Announcement is made after 6.30 p.m. on a
Business Day or on a day which is not a Business Day, the DC Restructuring
Announcement Date will be the first following Business Day.
DC Rules: This term shall have the meaning given to the term "Rules" in the
2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions.
DC Secretary: This term shall have the meaning set out in the DC Rules.
Deemed Buy-in Period: As set out at Section 6.8(b)(i).
Dispute: This term shall have the meaning set out in the CDS Dispute
Resolution Protocol.
DTCC Failure Event: As set out at Section 7.4 (Notification of DTCC Failure
and Resolution).
DTCC Failure Event Time: As set out at Section 7.4 (Notification of DTCC
Failure and Resolution).
DTCC Notice Facility: A facility made available pursuant to the DTCC Rules
for the delivery of Credit Event Notices relating to Restructuring Credit Events
or Notices to Exercise Movement Option.
DTCC Resolution Time: As set out at Section 7.4 (Notification of DTCC
Failure and Resolution).
DTCC Rules: The "Operating Procedures", as published by DTCC and as
amended from time to time.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

7

Published on 14 April 2016

Failed Amount: As set out at Section 6.10 (Failure to pay Physical
Settlement Amount).
First Novation Date: In respect of:
(a)

an Index Cleared Transaction, the first date on which LCH.Clearnet SA
will accept Original Transactions referencing the relevant Eligible Index
Version for clearing pursuant to the CDS Clearing Documentation,
being, in the case of any such version published pursuant to the
occurrence of a Succession Event or Credit Event, the date on which
credit default swap transactions referencing such version of such index
are accepted for registration in the TIW in accordance with the DTCC
Rules;

(b)

a Single Name Cleared Transaction in respect of which a Novation Cutoff Date has previously occurred pursuant to the occurrence of a
Restructuring Credit Event in respect of the relevant Reference Entity,
the calendar day following the Transaction Business Day following the
latest possible Exercise Cut-off Date for the relevant Restructuring
Credit Event or such other date on which LCH.Clearnet SA determines
in consultation with the CDSClear Product Committee that
LCH.Clearnet SA will begin to again accept Original Transactions
referencing the relevant Reference Entity; and

(c)

a Single Name Cleared Transaction (other than in the circumstances
set-out in (b) above), the first date on which LCH.Clearnet SA
determines in consultation with the CDSClear Product Committee that
LCH.Clearnet SA will accept or will begin to again accept (as
applicable) Original Transactions referencing the relevant Reference
Entity.

Index Cleared Transaction: A Cleared Transaction which references a
portfolio of Reference Entities specified in a credit default swap index and
consists of a Component Transaction (as defined in the Index Cleared
Transaction Confirmation) in respect of each such Reference Entity, the
terms of which are as evidenced by an Index Cleared Transaction
Confirmation.
Index Cleared Transaction Confirmation: For
(a)

any Index Cleared Transaction which references a Markit iTraxx®
Europe Index Series 21 or below, the form of confirmation which
incorporates the iTraxx® Europe Legacy Untranched Standard Terms
Supplement, each as published on 20 September 2014 by Markit
Group Limited; and

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

8

Published on 14 April 2016

(b)

any Index Cleared Transaction which references a Markit CDX™ Index
Series 22 or below, the form of confirmation which incorporates the
CDX Legacy Untranched Transactions Standard Terms Supplement,
each as published on 22 September 2014 by Markit Group Limited,

in each case as amended by this CDS Clearing Supplement and as
completed by reference to the relevant Transaction Data (or such other form
of confirmation as may be adopted in respect of any CDS Type in accordance
with Section 1.2.2 (Modification) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book).
Index CCM Client Transaction: A CCM Client Transaction which references
a portfolio of Reference Entities specified in a credit default swap index and
consists of a Component Transaction (as defined in the Index Cleared
Transaction Confirmation) in respect of each such Reference Entity and
which is on the same economic terms as an Index Cleared Transaction
registered in the CCM Client Trade Account in the name of such CCM for
such CCM Client.
Initial Re-couponing Notice: As set-out in Section 4.4 (Re-couponing of
Restructuring Cleared Transactions).
Initial Single Name Cleared Transaction: A Cleared Transaction entered
into following the novation of an Original Transaction and which references a
single Reference Entity, the terms of which are evidenced by a Single Name
Cleared Transaction Confirmation.
Initial Single Name CCM Client Transaction: A CCM Client Transaction
which references a single Reference Entity and which is on the same
economic terms as an Initial Single Name Cleared Transaction registered in
the CCM Client Trade Account in the name of such CCM for such CCM
Client.
ISDA: The International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. and any
successor thereto.
Mandatory Provisions: As set-out in Appendix XIII (CCM Client Transaction
Requirements).
Matched Buyer: A CDS Buyer comprised in a Matched Pair.
Matched Buyer Contract: A Cleared Transaction (or part thereof) between a
Matched Buyer and LCH.Clearnet SA which is the subject of a Matched Pair
having the Restructuring Matched Pair Amount or the Settlement Matched
Pair Delivery Amount, as the case may be, relating to that Matched Pair.
Matched Contract: A Matched Seller Contract or a Matched Buyer Contract,
as applicable.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

9

Published on 14 April 2016

Matched Pair: A Restructuring Matched Pair or Settlement Matched Pair, as
applicable.
Matched Seller: A CDS Seller comprised in a Matched Pair.
Matched Seller Contract: A Cleared Transaction (or part thereof) between a
Matched Seller and LCH.Clearnet SA which is the subject of a Matched Pair
having the Restructuring Matched Pair Amount or the Settlement Matched
Pair Delivery Amount, as the case may be, relating to that Matched Pair.
Matching Information Notification Deadline: In respect of a Restructuring
Cleared Transaction, 9.00 a.m. on the first day of the CEN Triggering Period,
provided that the Matching Information Notification Deadline shall fall no
earlier than the fifth Transaction Business Day following the relevant DC
Credit Event Announcement.
Matrix Re-versioning Date: As set-out in Section 2.5 (Physical Settlement
Matrix Updates).
NEMO Triggering Period: In relation to any Restructuring Cleared
Transaction for which either "Restructuring Maturity Limitation and Fully
Transferable Obligation Applicable" or "Modified Restructuring Maturity
Limitation and Conditionally Transferable Obligation Applicable" is applicable,
the period starting at 9:00 a.m. on the day falling two Transaction Business
Days prior to the relevant Movement Option Cut-off Date for the relevant
Credit Event and ending at the last time for delivery of a valid Notice to
Exercise Movement Option under the terms of the relevant Cleared
Transaction.
No Physical Settlement Confirmation: As set out in Section 6.19
(Miscellaneous Provisions relating to Physical Settlement).
No Physical Settlement Confirmation Deadline: As set out in Section 6.19
(Miscellaneous Provisions relating to Physical Settlement).
Non-Deliverable Obligation: As set out at Section 6.12 (Fallback to Cash
Settlement in respect of Non-Deliverable Obligations).
Non-DVP Obligation: In respect of any Physically Settled Cleared
Transaction, a Deliverable Obligation validly specified in a Notice of Physical
Settlement which does not, in accordance with then current market
standards, settle on a delivery-versus-payment basis through the books and
records of a central securities depository or securities settlement system.
Notice Acknowledgement Deadline: As set out in Section 7.7 (Clearing
Member Acknowledgements).

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

10

Published on 14 April 2016

Notice Reconciliation Deadline:
Member Acknowledgements).

As set out in Section 7.7 (Clearing

Novation Cut-off Date: The date with effect from which LCH.Clearnet SA will
no longer accept Original Transactions referencing an Eligible Index Version
or Eligible Reference Entity for novation, being:
(a)

following the occurrence of a Restructuring Credit Event, the earlier of:
(i)

a date determined by LCH.Clearnet SA in consultation with the
CDSClear Product Committee, which shall not be earlier than the
DC Restructuring Announcement Date; and

(ii)

the calendar day immediately following
Announcement Date,

the

No

Auction

provided that LCH.Clearnet SA in consultation with the CDSClear
Product Committee may, but is not required to, determine that the
Novation Cut-off Date for Index Cleared Transactions and the Novation
Cut-off Date for Initial Single Name Cleared Transactions are to occur
on different days;
(b)

following the occurrence of a Failure to Pay Credit Event or a
Bankruptcy Credit Event, the calendar day following the related Auction
Final Price Determination Date, Auction Cancellation Date or No
Auction Announcement Date, as applicable;

(c)

following the occurrence of a Succession Event:

(d)

(i)

in respect of an Index Cleared Transaction, the date notified by
DTCC to LCH.Clearnet SA as being the date on which DTCC will
amend its records in respect of such Cleared Transaction to take
into account a new version of such index published by the
relevant index publisher taking into account the occurrence of
such Succession Event; or

(ii)

in respect of a Single Name Cleared Transaction, the day after
the date on which ISDA publicly announces that the relevant
Determinations Committee has resolved that a Succession Event
has occurred;

following the occurrence of a Rename Event in respect of Single Name
Cleared Transactions, the date determined by LCH.Clearnet SA in
consultation with the CDSClear Product Committee, which such date
shall not be later than the date on which DTCC amends its records in
respect of Single Name Cleared Transactions to take into account the
occurrence of such Rename Event; or

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

11

Published on 14 April 2016

(e)

otherwise, as determined by LCH.Clearnet SA in consultation with the
CDSClear Product Committee.

Partial Cash Settlement Terms: As set out in Section 9.8 (Partial Cash
Settlement Terms) of the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions, as
amended by this CDS Clearing Supplement.
Payer: As set out at Section 6.17 (Physical Settlement Costs).
Physical Settlement Confirmation: As set out in
(Miscellaneous Provisions relating to Physical Settlement).

Section

6.19

Physical Settlement Confirmation Deadline: As set out in Section 6.19
(Miscellaneous Provisions relating to Physical Settlement).
Physically Settled Cleared Transaction: As set out at Section 6.3
(Physically Settled Cleared Transactions).
Physical Settlement Matrix: The Credit Derivatives Physical Settlement
Matrix (as defined in the 2005 Matrix Supplement to the 2003 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions published on March 7 2005).
Recipient: As set out at Section 6.17 (Physical Settlement Costs).
Re-couponing Date: As set-out
Restructuring Cleared Transactions).

in

Section

4.4

(Re-couponing

of

Re-couponing Notice: As set-out in Section 4.4 (Re-couponing of
Restructuring Cleared Transactions).
Rename Event: As set out in Section 4.7 (Rename Events).
Restructuring Cleared Transaction:
A Cleared Transaction which
references a single Reference Entity and is created following the creation of
Restructuring Matched Pairs pursuant to Section 5.2 (Creation of
Restructuring Cleared Transactions), the terms of which are evidenced by a
Single Name Cleared Transaction Confirmation.
Restructuring CCM Client Transaction: A CCM Client Transaction between
a CCM and a CCM Client which references a single Reference Entity and
which is on the same economic terms as a Restructuring Cleared Transaction
registered in the CCM Client Trade Account in the name of such CCM for
such CCM Client.
Restructuring Matched Pair: A pairing comprised of a Matched Buyer and a
Matched Seller in respect of Restructuring Cleared Transactions created by
LCH.Clearnet SA for the purposes of delivery of Credit Event Notices in
respect of the relevant Restructuring Credit Event under Section 5.1
(Creation and Notification of Restructuring Matched Pairs).
LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

12

Published on 14 April 2016

Restructuring Matched Pair Amount: In respect of a Restructuring
Matched Pair, the amount of the Floating Rate Payer Calculation Amount in
respect of the relevant Restructuring Cleared Transactions allocated by
LCH.Clearnet SA to such Restructuring Matched Pair under Section 8.1
(Creation of Matched Pairs).
Resulting Single Name Cleared Transaction: A Cleared Transaction
which references a single Reference Entity and is created following the
termination of a Restructuring Cleared Transaction pursuant to Section 5.15
(Recouponing) of the Procedures, the terms of which are evidenced by a
Single Name Cleared Transaction Confirmation.
RMP Notification Deadline: In respect of a notification by LCH.Clearnet SA
to the relevant Clearing Members in relation to Restructuring Matched Pairs,
10.00 a.m. on the Transaction Business Day immediately prior to the first day
of the CEN Triggering Period provided that the RMP Notification Deadline
shall in no event fall prior to the second Transaction Business Day following
the occurrence of the related DC Credit Event Announcement.
Self Referencing Transaction: A Clearing Member Self Referencing
Transaction or a Client Self Referencing Transaction, as applicable.
Settlement Matched Pair: A pairing comprised of a Matched Buyer and a
Matched Seller in respect of Physically Settled Cleared Transactions deemed
to have been created by LCH.Clearnet SA under Section 6.3 (Physically
Settled Cleared Transactions).
Settlement Matched Pair Delivery Amount: In respect of a Settlement
Matched Pair, the amount of the Floating Rate Payer Calculation Amount in
respect of the relevant Physically Settled Cleared Transactions allocated by
LCH.Clearnet SA to such Settlement Matched Pair under Section 8.1
(Creation of Matched Pairs).
Single Name Cleared Transaction: An Initial Single Name Cleared
Transaction, a Spin-off Single Name Cleared Transaction, a Restructuring
Cleared Transaction and a Resulting Single Name Cleared Transaction.
Single Name Cleared Transaction Confirmation: The form of confirmation
for use with the Physical Settlement Matrix that incorporates the 2003 ISDA
Credit Derivatives Definitions, as amended by this CDS Clearing Supplement
and as completed by reference to:
(a)

in the case of an Initial Single Name Cleared Transaction, the relevant
Transaction Data; or

(b)

in the case of any other type of Single Name Cleared Transaction, the
relevant Cleared Transaction or Cleared Transactions that existed

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

13

Published on 14 April 2016

immediately prior to the relevant event that resulted in the creation of
such Single Name Cleared Transaction (with such amendments as are
required pursuant to the terms of the CDS Clearing Documentation),
or such other form of confirmation as may be adopted in respect of any CDS
Type in accordance with Section 1.2.2 (Modification) of the CDS Clearing
Rule Book.
Single Name CCM Client Transaction: A CCM Client Transaction between
a CCM and a CCM Client which is on the same economic terms as a Single
Name Cleared Transaction registered in the CCM Client Trade Account in the
name of such CCM for such CCM Client.
SMP Notification Deadline: In respect of a notification by LCH.Clearnet SA
to the relevant Clearing Members in relation to Settlement Matched Pairs,
noon on the Transaction Business Day following the day on which the
Fallback Settlement Method first becomes applicable.
Spin-off Single Name Cleared Transaction: The separate Single Name
Cleared Transaction formed in respect of a Reference Entity from a
Component Transaction (as defined in the Index Cleared Transaction
Confirmation) of an Index Cleared Transaction following the occurrence of a
DC Credit Event Announcement in respect of a Restructuring Credit Event
with respect to the Reference Entity of such Component Transaction in
accordance with the terms of such Index Cleared Transaction, the terms of
which are evidenced by a Single Name Cleared Transaction Confirmation.
Transaction Business Day: A "Business Day", as defined in the Index
Cleared Transaction Confirmation or the Single Name Cleared Transaction
Confirmation, as applicable.
Transaction Data: In respect of an Original Transaction to be novated
pursuant to Title III (Clearing Operations) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book and
cleared by LCH.Clearnet SA as an Index Cleared Transaction or Initial Single
Name Cleared Transaction, the data provided by an Approved Trade Source
System to LCH.Clearnet SA for such purposes, which includes, without
limitation:
(a)

in respect of an Index Cleared Transaction, the relevant index,
including details of the index name, series and version, the annex date,
the Original Notional Amount and the currency of the Original Notional
Amount;

(b)

in respect of an Initial Single Name Cleared Transaction, the Reference
Entity, Reference Obligation, applicable Transaction Type, Floating
Rate Payer Calculation Amount, the currency of the Floating Rate
Payer Calculation Amount and the Fixed Rate;

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

14

Published on 14 April 2016

1.3

(c)

the Trade Date;

(d)

the Scheduled Termination Date;

(e)

the Floating Rate Payer;

(f)

the Fixed Rate Payer;

(g)

the Fixed Rate Payer Payment Dates;

(h)

the Initial Payment Payer;

(i)

the Initial Payment Amount; and

(j)

whether the 2003 Credit Derivatives Definitions or the 2014 Credit
Derivatives Definitions are applicable to such Original Transaction (or,
in the case of an Index Cleared Transaction, each component of such
Original Transaction).

Inconsistency
To the extent of any conflict between:
(a)

any definition or provision contained in Appendix 1 (CDS Default
Management Process) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book;

(b)

the remaining sections of the CDS Clearing Rule Book;

(c)

the CDS Admission Agreement;

(d)

this CDS Clearing Supplement;

(e)

an Index Cleared Transaction Confirmation or a Single Name Cleared
Transaction Confirmation;

(f)

the Procedures; or

(g)

any Clearing Notices,

the first referenced document shall prevail except in relation to determining
the existence and amount of any payment and delivery obligations under any
Cleared Transactions, in respect of which this CDS Clearing Supplement, the
Index Cleared Transaction Confirmation or the Single Name Cleared
Transaction Confirmation, as applicable, shall prevail to the extent permitted
by law.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

15

Published on 14 April 2016

1.4

Timing
Pursuant to Article 1.2.8 (Time reference) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book,
any reference to a time of day herein shall be deemed to be a reference to
Central European Time unless otherwise provided herein.

1.5

Third Party Rights
Unless otherwise provided in this CDS Clearing Supplement or in the CDS
Clearing Rulebook, a person who is not a party to a Cleared Transaction
does not have any right under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act
1999 to enforce any provision of such Cleared Transaction or this CDS
Clearing Supplement as it relates to such Cleared Transaction.

1.6

Recording of Conversations
Each of LCH.Clearnet SA and each Clearing Member consents to the
recording of telephone conversations between the trading, marketing and
other relevant personnel of the parties in connection with any Cleared
Transaction and agrees to obtain any necessary consent of, and give any
necessary notice of such recording to, its relevant personnel and agrees, to
the extent permitted by applicable law, that such recordings may be
submitted as evidence in any related court or arbitral proceedings.

1.7

Application to FCM Clearing Members
(a)

Upon the taking of any action pursuant to this CDS Clearing
Supplement by an FCM Clearing Member in respect of an FCM
Cleared Transaction entered into as agent for the account of an FCM
Client (as described in FCM CDS Clearing Regulation 1(c)), such FCM
Clearing Member shall be deemed to represent to LCH.Clearnet SA
that it has the power and authority to, and has been duly authorised to,
take such action for the account of such FCM Client.

(b)

For purposes of this CDS Clearing Supplement, with regard to any
Cleared Transaction entered into by an FCM Clearing Member acting
as agent for the account of an FCM Client (as described in FCM CDS
Clearing Regulation 1(c)):
(i)

references herein to “CDS Buyer” or “CDS Seller”, as the case
may be, shall be understood to be references to such FCM Client
(which shall not, for the avoidance of doubt, prejudice
LCH.Clearnet SA’s right to deal solely with the FCM Clearing
Member pursuant to Article 6.1.1.3(vi) of the CDS Clearing Rule
Book); and

(ii)

references herein to: (1) a Clearing Member entering into a
Cleared Transaction with LCH.Clearnet SA; and (2) a Clearing

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

16

Published on 14 April 2016

Member forming part of a Matched Pair, shall each be understood
as such FCM Clearing Member acting as agent for the account of
such FCM Client (as described in FCM CDS Clearing Regulation
1(c)).
2.

TERMS OF CLEARED TRANSACTIONS

2.1

General Terms of Cleared Transactions
(a)

Terms of Index Cleared Transactions and Initial Single Name
Cleared Transactions
Upon novation of an Original Transaction at the Novation Time in
accordance with Title III (Clearing Operations) of the CDS Clearing
Rule Book, each resulting Index Cleared Transaction or Initial Single
Name Cleared Transaction is entered into by LCH.Clearnet SA and the
relevant Clearing Member on the terms of the related Index Cleared
Transaction Confirmation or Single Name Cleared Transaction
Confirmation (as applicable).

(b)

Terms of Spin-off Single Name Cleared Transactions,
Restructuring Cleared Transactions and Resulting Single Name
Cleared Transactions
If any Spin-off Single Name Cleared Transaction is deemed to have
been entered into by the parties in accordance with the terms of any
Index Cleared Transaction or if any Restructuring Cleared Transaction
is created pursuant to Section 5.2 (Creation of Restructuring Cleared
Transactions) or if any Resulting Single Name Cleared Transaction is
created pursuant to Section 5.15 (Recouponing) of the Procedures,
such Spin-off Single Name Cleared Transaction, Restructuring Cleared
Transaction or Resulting Single Name Cleared Transaction is entered
into by LCH.Clearnet SA and the relevant Clearing Member on the
terms of the related Single Name Cleared Transaction Confirmation.

(c)

Trade Date of Cleared Transactions following Compression
Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) above, where Cleared
Transactions are subject to compression in accordance with Chapter 3
(Compression) of Title III (Clearing Operations) of the CDS Clearing
Rule Book, the Trade Date of any resulting Cleared Transaction(s) shall
be, in respect of any Cleared Transaction subject to:
(i)

ad hoc compression (as described in Chapter 3 (Compression) of
Title III (Clearing Operations) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book),
the date on which the request for compression was effectively

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

17

Published on 14 April 2016

received and processed in accordance with Section 5 of the
Procedures, which shall be:

(ii)

2.2

(A)

the Clearing Day on which such request is submitted and
uploaded by the relevant Clearing Member provided that
such request for compression was received by
LCH.Clearnet SA before 7.00 p.m. on such Clearing Day (if
such request is submitted and uploaded by the relevant
Clearing member via any means of access specified in a
Clearing Notice or 5.00 p.m. (if such request is not
submitted via any means of access specified in a Clearing
Notice in the case of a disruption of the relevant means of
access);

(B)

the Clearing Day on which such request is submitted if such
request is not submitted via any means of access specified
in a Clearing Notice in the case of disruption of the relevant
means of access and is submitted after 5.00 p.m. but
LCH.Clearnet SA, in its sole discretion, processes such
request on the Clearing Day on which such request is
submitted; and

(C)

unless the relevant Clearing Member instructs the
Operations Department to withdraw such request, the
Clearing Day following the Clearing Day on which such
request is submitted if such request is not submitted via any
means of access specified in a Clearing Notice in the case
of disruption of the relevant means of access and is
submitted after 5.00 p.m. and LCH.Clearnet SA, in its sole
discretion, does not process such request on the Clearing
Day on which such request is submitted; or

automatic compression (as described in Chapter 3 (Compression)
of Title III (Clearing Operations) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book),
the Clearing Day on which such Cleared Transaction is
automatically compressed by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance
with Section 5 of the Procedures.

Index Cleared Transaction Confirmation
The Index Cleared Transaction Confirmation is amended, supplemented and
completed as follows:
(a)

(i) if the Index Cleared Transaction references a Markit iTraxx® Europe
Index, by deleting the words "between [] (Party A) and [] (Party B)"
in the third line of the first paragraph; and

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

18

Published on 14 April 2016

(ii) if the Index Cleared Transaction references a Markit CDX™ Index,
by deleting the words "between [Party A] ("Party A") and [counterparty's
name] ("Party B")" in the third and fourth lines of the first paragraph,
and in each case replacing them with:
"between LCH.Clearnet SA ("Party A") and Clearing Member, as
identified in the relevant CDS Admission Agreement between such
Clearing Member and Party A ("Party B")";
(b)

(i) if the Index Cleared Transaction references a Markit iTraxx® Europe
Index, by deleting the fifth paragraph thereof; and
(ii) if the Index Cleared Transaction references a Markit CDX™ Index,
by deleting the third paragraph thereof,
in each case replacing it with the following:
"This Confirmation supplements, forms a part of, and is subject to, the
CDS Clearing Documentation, as defined in the CDS Clearing Rule
Book.";

(c)

if the Index Cleared Transaction references a Markit iTraxx® Europe
Index, by deleting the sixth paragraph thereof and replacing it with the
following:
"The terms of the iTraxx® Master Transaction, which is an Index
Cleared Transaction, to which this Confirmation relates are as
follows:";

(d)

if the Index Cleared Transaction references a Markit CDX™ Index, by
deleting the fourth paragraph thereof and replacing it with the following:
"The terms of the Master Transaction, which is an Index Cleared
Transaction, to which this Confirmation relates are as follows:";

(e)

by specifying that the “Calculation Agent” is Party A;

(f)

(i) if the Index Cleared Transaction references a Markit iTraxx® Europe
Index, by inserting the following “Additional terms”:
"The Legacy Standard Terms Supplement is amended for the
purposes of this Transaction by deleting paragraph 5.4 (De Minimis
Cash Settlement) of Section A in its entirety": and
(ii) if the Index Cleared Transaction references a Markit CDX™ Index,
by inserting the following “Additional terms”:

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

19

Published on 14 April 2016

"The CDX Legacy Standard Terms Supplement is amended for the
purposes of this Transaction by deleting paragraph 5.3 (De Minimis
Cash Settlement) of Section A in its entirety":

2.3

(g)

by deleting the contact details for notices and the account details; and

(h)

by deleting the signature blocks.

Single Name Cleared Transaction Confirmation
The Single Name Cleared Transaction
supplemented and completed as follows:
(a)

Confirmation

is

amended,

by deleting the words "between us" from the first paragraph thereof and
replacing them with:
"between LCH.Clearnet SA ("Party A") and Clearing Member, as
identified in the relevant CDS Admission Agreement between Clearing
Member and Party A ("Party B")";

(b)

by deleting the words "as supplemented by each of the May 2003
Supplement and the 2005 Matrix Supplement to the 2003 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions" in the second paragraph thereof and replacing
them with the words "as supplemented by each of the 2005 Matrix
Supplement to the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions and the
2009 ISDA Credit Derivatives Determinations Committees, Auction
Settlement and Restructuring Supplement to the 2003 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions (published on July 14, 2009)";

(c)

by deleting the third paragraph thereof and replacing it with the
following:
"This Confirmation supplements, forms a part of and is subject to the
CDS Clearing Documentation, as defined in the CDS Clearing Rule
Book.";

(d)

by specifying the Matrix Publication Date as the date of publication of
the Relevant Physical Settlement Matrix;

(e)

by specifying that the “Calculation Agent” is Party A;

(f)

notwithstanding the terms of the relevant Original Transaction, by
specifying that the Reference Obligation is the CDSClear Preferred
Reference Obligation;

(g)

by deleting references to the Initial Payment Payer and the Initial
Payment Amount in part 2 in relation to Single Name Cleared
Transactions in respect of which there is no Initial Payment Payer and
Initial Payment Amount;

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

20

Published on 14 April 2016

(h)

by deleting parts 4, 5, 6 and 7 in their entirety;

(i)

by inserting the following provision in the "Additional Terms" section of
the Confirmation:
"Section 2.31 (Merger of Reference Entity and Seller) of the Credit
Derivatives Definitions shall not apply."; and

(j)
2.4

by deleting the signature blocks.

Amendments to 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions
(a)

For the purposes of this CDS Clearing Supplement, Section 9.2(c)(iv) of
the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions as incorporated in any
Cleared Transaction shall be amended such that, where LCH.Clearnet
SA is the designator in relation to any Restructuring Cleared
Transaction or Physically Settled Cleared Transaction, as applicable, it
is permitted to designate any relevant CDS Buyer or CDS Seller, as
applicable, in accordance with Section 8 (Matched Pair Designations
and Notices) as its designee, notwithstanding that such relevant CDS
Buyer or CDS Seller, as applicable, is not its Affiliate and for the
additional purposes of:
(i)

delivering or receiving any Credit Event Notice relating to a
Restructuring Credit Event or Notice to Exercise Movement
Option (in each case, to the extent not delivered via a DTCC
Notice Facility);

(ii)

delivering or receiving any Notice of Physical Settlement or
NOPS Amendment Notice;

(iii)

making or receiving payment of any Physical Settlement Amount
and any costs and expenses of Physical Settlement; and

(iv)

delivering or receiving any notice and otherwise exercising any
rights or performing any obligations of LCH.Clearnet SA for the
purposes of Sections 9.9 (Buy-in of Bonds Not Delivered) or 9.10
(Alternative Procedures Relating to Loans Not Delivered) of the
2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions.

(b)

Section 9.1(c)(iii) of the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions is
amended by deleting both occurrences of the words "master agreement
between Buyer and Seller that governs the relevant Credit Derivative
Transaction" and replacing each with the words "CDS Clearing
Documentation".

(c)

Section 9.2(a) of the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions is
amended by deleting the words "any master agreement governing the

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

21

Published on 14 April 2016

Credit Derivative Transaction" at the end thereof and replacing them
with the words "the CDS Clearing Documentation".
(d)

Section 9.2(c)(ii) of the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions is
amended by deleting the words "any master agreement governing the
Credit Derivative Transaction" at the end of the third sentence thereof
and replacing them with the words "the CDS Clearing Documentation".

(e)

Section 9.2(c)(iii) of the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions is
amended by deleting both occurrences of the words "a master
agreement governing the Credit Derivative Transaction" and replacing
each with the words "the CDS Clearing Documentation".

(f)

The Protocol Effectiveness Condition (as defined in the 2014 ISDA
Credit Derivatives Definitions Protocol published by ISDA on 21 August
2014 and supplemented by the Supplement thereto published by ISDA
on 15 September 2014 and as further supplemented from time to time
(the "2014 Protocol")) being satisfied, then from and including the
Implementation Date (as defined in the 2014 Protocol) the amendments
set forth in Part 1 (Global Amendments) of Schedule 1 (Amendments to
Protocol Covered Transactions) of the 2014 Protocol shall apply to
each Cleared Transaction which incorporates the 2003 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions and each such Cleared Transaction shall be a
Protocol Covered Transaction for the purposes of the 2014 Protocol
provided that:
(i)

the First Novation Date in respect of such Cleared Transaction is
prior to the Implementation Date;

(ii)

such Cleared Transaction is not an Excluded Transaction (as
defined in the 2014 Protocol) provided that if such Cleared
Transaction relates to more than one Reference Entity and would
otherwise be a Protocol Covered Transaction but for the inclusion
of any Affected Portion (as defined in the 2014 Protocol) therein,
such Affected Portion shall be excluded for the purposes of this
Section 2.4(f) and the remaining portion of such Cleared
Transaction shall be deemed to be a Protocol Covered
Transaction;

(iii)

the Scheduled Termination Date in respect of such Cleared
Transaction is on or after the Implementation Date;

(iv)

no Event Determination Date has occurred in respect of such
Cleared Transaction prior to the Implementation Date;

(v)

from and including the Implementation Date the provisions of Part
B of the CDS Clearing Supplement shall apply to such Cleared

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

22

Published on 14 April 2016

Transaction or the portion of such Cleared Transaction other than
the Affected Portion, as applicable and such Cleared Transaction
shall be treated as if it had been entered into and is subject to the
2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions. In the event of any
inconsistency between the provisions of Part B of the CDS
Clearing Supplement and the amendments set forth in this
paragraph 2.4, the provisions of Part B of the CDS Clearing
Supplement shall prevail.
2.5

Physical Settlement Matrix Updates
(a)

Publication of Revised Matrix
Where ISDA publishes a new version (the "Revised Matrix") of the
Physical Settlement Matrix that is the Relevant Physical Settlement
Matrix in respect of an Eligible Reference Entity (the "Existing Matrix"),
LCH.Clearnet SA will, in consultation with the CDSClear Product
Committee, determine whether the Existing Matrix and the Revised
Matrix are fungible for the purposes of Single Name Cleared
Transactions referencing such Eligible Reference Entity.
If there are any changes between the terms of the Revised Matrix and
the Existing Matrix that would apply to Single Name Cleared
Transactions referencing the Eligible Reference Entity and the Existing
Matrix were they to reference the Revised Matrix instead, then the
Existing Matrix and the Revised Matrix shall be deemed not to be
fungible and paragraph (c) below shall apply.

(b)

Revised Matrix Fungible
If LCH.Clearnet SA determines in consultation with the CDSClear
Product Committee that the Existing Matrix and the Revised Matrix are
fungible for the purposes of Single Name Cleared Transactions
referencing an Eligible Reference Entity (such date of determination, a
Matrix Re-versioning Date), then:
(i)

LCH.Clearnet SA will promptly notify all Clearing Members of
such determination; and

(ii)

each Single Name Cleared Transaction referencing such Eligible
Reference Entity and the Existing Matrix will, as of the close of
business on the Matrix Re-versioning Date, be deemed to have
been amended so as to reference the Revised Matrix, which shall
become the Relevant Physical Settlement Matrix in respect of
such Eligible Reference Entity.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

23

Published on 14 April 2016

For the avoidance of doubt, following the publication of a Revised
Matrix, there may be different Matrix Re-versioning Dates in respect of
Single Name Cleared Transactions referencing different Eligible
Reference Entities.
(c)

Revised Matrix not Fungible
If it is determined that the Revised Matrix and the Existing Matrix are
not fungible for the purposes of Single Name Cleared Transactions
referencing an Eligible Reference Entity, then existing Single Name
Cleared Transactions referencing such Eligible Reference Entity and
the Existing Matrix shall continue to reference the Existing Matrix.

(d)

Original Transactions submitted prior to Matrix Re-versioning Date
Pursuant to Section 2.3(d) above, any Original Transaction referencing
an Eligible Reference Entity submitted for clearing after a Matrix Reversioning Date in respect of such Eligible Reference Entity and which
references the Existing Matrix prior to such Matrix Re-versioning Date
will, following novation, result in an Initial Single Name Cleared
Transaction referencing the Revised Matrix.

3.

PAYMENTS AND DELIVERIES

3.1

Obligation to pay and deliver
Each of LCH.Clearnet SA and each Clearing Member will make each
payment or delivery specified under the terms of each Cleared Transaction to
be made by it, subject to the other provisions of the CDS Clearing
Documentation.
Payments under any Cleared Transaction will be made on the due date for
value on that date in the place of the account specified for the relevant party
in the CDS Admission Agreement (or such other account as may be
designated by it from time to time for such purpose in accordance with the
CDS Admissions Agreement and/or the Procedures, as applicable) and
otherwise in accordance with the CDS Clearing Documentation, in freely
transferable funds and in the manner customary for payments in the required
currency.
Deliveries under any Cleared Transaction will be made for receipt on the due
date in the manner customary for the relevant obligation unless otherwise
specified in or pursuant to the CDS Clearing Documentation.

3.2

Payments under Original Transactions
(a)

If any Initial Payment Amount or Fixed Amount is due and payable
under the terms of an Original Transaction on or before the Clearing

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

24

Published on 14 April 2016

Day on which the related Cleared Transactions are created by novation
pursuant to Title III (Clearing Operations) of the CDS Clearing Rule
Book, such amount shall be payable under and in accordance with the
terms of such Original Transaction. In such event, no corresponding
Initial Payment Amount or Fixed Amount shall be payable in respect of
such Cleared Transactions.
(b)

If the Initial Payment Date of an Original Transaction is a date falling
after the Clearing Day on which the Cleared Transactions related to
such Original Transaction are created by novation pursuant to Title III
(Clearing Operations) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book then the
corresponding Initial Payment Date for the related Cleared
Transactions shall occur on the Transaction Business Day which is also
a Clearing Day immediately following the Clearing Day on which such
related Cleared Transactions are created.

4.

CREDIT EVENTS, SUCCESSION EVENTS AND RENAME EVENTS

4.1

Determination of Credit Events and Succession Events
Notwithstanding any provision of any Cleared Transaction to the contrary:

4.2

(a)

LCH.Clearnet SA (in its capacity as Calculation Agent with respect to
such Cleared Transaction) shall not make any determination in respect
of any matter which is or may be subject to resolution under Sections
3.5 (Succession Event Resolutions) or 3.6 (Substitute Reference
Obligation Resolutions) of the DC Rules; and

(b)

neither LCH.Clearnet SA nor any Clearing Member shall be entitled to
deliver a Succession Event Notice or a Credit Event Notice (other than
Credit Event Notices in relation to a Restructuring Credit Event in
accordance with the terms of any Restructuring Cleared Transaction
and, where applicable, the DTCC Rules and Section 7.8 (Failure to
notify Matched Pairs)).

Credit Event Timeline
(a)

Publication of Credit Event Timeline
Upon a DC Credit Event Announcement, LCH.Clearnet SA will publish
and make available to Clearing Members a timeline in respect of the
relevant Credit Event and related Affected Cleared Transactions, to
notify, among other things, the relevant Novation Cut-off Date(s),
Compression Cut-off Date(s) and First Novation Date(s).
Any such timeline shall (i) be published and made available on the date
of such DC Credit Event Announcement or, if LCH.Clearnet SA
determines that such publication on such date is not practicably

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

25

Published on 14 April 2016

possible, as soon as practicable thereafter (but in no event later than
the Transaction Business Day before the earlier of the relevant
Novation Cut-off Date and the relevant Compression Cut-off Date) and
(ii) in all cases be without prejudice to and consistent with the terms of
the CDS Clearing Documentation and any relevant DC Resolutions.
(b)

Amendment of Credit Event Timeline
Any such timeline may be subject to subsequent amendment by
LCH.Clearnet SA, by means of a Clearing Notice to Clearing Members,
only to reflect subsequent DC Resolutions, timing provisions of any
relevant Transaction Auction Settlement Terms and/or actions of
DTCC, or in each case any subsequent amendments thereto. Any such
amendment shall be made by LCH.Clearnet SA as soon as reasonably
practicable following the relevant event.

4.3

Novation and Compression following Credit Events
Any Restructuring Cleared Transaction (or portion thereof) in respect of which
a valid Credit Event Notice is not delivered during the relevant CEN
Triggering Period shall become eligible for compression in accordance with
Chapter 3 (Compression) of Title III (Clearing Operations) of the CDS
Clearing Rule Book on the Transaction Business Day following the related
Exercise Cut-off Date applicable to the relevant Buyer.
By way of clarification to Chapter 3 (Compression) of Title III (Clearing
Operations) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, LCH.Clearnet SA shall effect
compression of relevant Cleared Transactions if and to the extent requested
by a Clearing Member.

4.4

Re-couponing of Restructuring Cleared Transactions
Following a Restructuring Credit Event, LCH.Clearnet SA may perform recouponing in accordance with Section 5 of the Procedures on any
Restructuring Cleared Transaction (or portion thereof) in respect of which a
valid Credit Event Notice has not been delivered during the relevant CEN
Triggering Period, provided that:
(a)

LCH.Clearnet SA notifies (such notice, the “Initial Re-couponing
Notice”) all of the relevant Clearing Members of its intention to perform
such re-couponing and the intended date of such re-couponing (such
date, the “Re-Couponing Date”);

(b)

the Re-Couponing Date is no earlier than the later of (i) the end of the
relevant CEN Trigger Period; and (ii) eight Transaction Business Days
after the effective date of the Initial Re-couponing Notice;

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

26

Published on 14 April 2016

(c)

all of the relevant Clearing Members have subsequently consented to
the proposed re-couponing, subject to confirmation of the terms of such
re-couponing, within five Transaction Business Days of the effective
date of the Initial Re-couponing Notice;

(d)

after receiving consent from all relevant Clearing Members in
accordance with paragraph (c) above, LCH.Clearnet SA notifies (such
notice, the “Re-couponing Notice”) the relevant Clearing Members, no
later than three Transactions Business Days prior to the Re-Couponing
Date, of the proposed terms of the Resulting Single Name Cleared
Transactions determined by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with
Section 5 of the Procedures; and

(e)

all of the relevant Clearing Members have subsequently consented to
the proposed terms of such re-couponing process as set out in the Recouponing Notice within two Transaction Business Days of the effective
date of the Re-couponing Notice.

For the avoidance of doubt, if, in respect of a proposed re-couponing
process, LCH.Clearnet SA does not obtain consent from all of the relevant
Clearing Members in accordance with paragraphs (c) or (e) above, then
LCH.Clearnet SA may elect to propose a re-couponing process again in
accordance with this Section 4.4 for so long as any relevant Restructuring
Cleared Transactions remain outstanding.
4.5

Succession Events and Cleared Transactions
If LCH.Clearnet SA determines that any Original Transaction submitted for
novation or any Cleared Transaction subject to compression would have
been subject to a Succession Event but will no longer be subject to such
Succession Event upon novation or compression (as applicable) because of
the Trade Date that would be specified with respect to the relevant Cleared
Transactions, LCH.Clearnet SA may take such action as it deems necessary
to ensure that such Succession Event is given effect with respect to such
Cleared Transactions, including, without limitation, specifying an alternate
Trade Date for purposes of Section 2.1 (Reference Entity) of the 2003 ISDA
Credit Derivatives Definitions with respect to each relevant Cleared
Transaction or, where LCH.Clearnet SA determines that an alternative course
of action is not practicable, declining to accept such Original Transaction for
novation or Cleared Transaction for compression (as applicable).

4.6

Succession Event Timeline
(a)

Publication of Succession Event Timeline
Following the publication of a resolution of a relevant Credit Derivatives
Determinations Committee to the effect that one or more Successors

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

27

Published on 14 April 2016

have been identified with respect to any Reference Entity for the
purposes of any Cleared Transaction, LCH.Clearnet SA will publish and
make available to Clearing Members a timeline in respect of the
relevant Succession Event and related Affected Cleared Transactions,
to notify, amongst other things, the relevant Novation Cut-off Date(s),
Compression Cut-off Date(s) and First Novation Date(s).
Any such timeline shall be published and made available as soon as
practicable (but in no event later than the Transaction Business Day
before the earlier of the relevant Novation Cut-off Date and the relevant
Compression Cut-off Date) and shall in all cases be without prejudice to
and consistent with the terms of the CDS Clearing Documentation and
any relevant DC Resolutions.
(b)

Amendment of Succession Event Timeline
Any such timeline may be subject to subsequent amendment by
LCH.Clearnet SA, by means of a Clearing Notice to Clearing Members,
to reflect subsequent DC Resolutions and any relevant actions of
DTCC, or in each case any subsequent amendments thereto. Any such
amendment shall be made by LCH.Clearnet SA as soon as reasonably
practicable following the relevant event.

4.7

Rename Events
In respect of Single Name Cleared Transactions, if a Reference Entity
changes its name (a "Rename Event"), LCH.Clearnet SA will publish and
make available to Clearing Members as soon as practicable upon becoming
aware of such Rename Event a timeline in respect of the relevant Rename
Event and related Affected Cleared Transactions, to notify, amongst other
things, the relevant Novation Cut-off Date(s), Compression Cut-off Date(s)
and First Novation Date(s).
Any such timeline may be subject to subsequent amendment by
LCH.Clearnet SA, by means of a Clearing Notice to Clearing Members, to
reflect any relevant actions of DTCC. Any such amendment shall be made by
LCH.Clearnet SA as soon as reasonably practicable following the relevant
event.

4.8

Updating Eligible Index Versions
(a)

Publication of Revised Index
Where the Index Publisher of an Eligible Index Version publishes a
revised version of such index following:
(i)

a DC Credit Event Announcement;

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

28

Published on 14 April 2016

(ii)

a DC Resolution becoming effective which specifies that a
Succession Event has occurred; or

(iii)

the determination of a Substitute Reference Obligation,

LCH.Clearnet SA will in consultation with the CDSClear Product
Committee determine whether such revised index version is fungible
with the Eligible Index Version after taking account of the relevant
Credit Event, Succession Event or, as applicable, Substitute Reference
Obligation.
(b)

Index Version not Fungible
If LCH.Clearnet SA determines in consultation with the CDSClear
Product Committee that such revised index version is not fungible with
the Eligible Index Version after taking account of the relevant Credit
Event, Succession Event or, as applicable, Substitute Reference
Obligation, it shall notify DTCC accordingly so that DTCC does not
automatically update the trade records for Index Cleared Transactions
and Index CCM Client Transactions referencing the relevant Eligible
Index Version in the TIW.

(c)

Index Fungible
Unless LCH.Clearnet SA has notified DTCC in accordance with
paragraph (b) above, following confirmation from DTCC that the trade
records for Cleared Transactions referencing the relevant index have
been updated in the TIW (such date a DTCC Re-versioning Date) so
that such Cleared Transactions reference the revised index version
(which such revised index version shall become the Eligible Index
Version), LCH.Clearnet SA will update its corresponding records in the
CDS Clearing System overnight following such DTCC Re-versioning
Date. LCH.Clearnet SA will send Cleared Transaction Portfolio Reports
to the relevant Clearing Members on the Transaction Business Day
following such DTCC Re-versioning Date which will be updated so as to
refer to Cleared Transactions referencing the revised index version.

4.9

Reversal of DC Credit Event Announcements and Margining
If a DC Credit Event Announcement is reversed then, subject to Section
9.1(c)(iii)(B) of the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions, LCH.Clearnet
SA shall be obliged in accordance with Section 3 of the Procedures to
calculate and shall be entitled to call for Margin and/or be obliged to return
Margin with respect to each Clearing Member on the basis that the DC Credit
Event Announcement that is reversed had not been made.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

29

Published on 14 April 2016

5.

RESTRUCTURING

5.1

Creation and Notification of Restructuring Matched Pairs
Following the occurrence of a Restructuring Credit Event, LCH.Clearnet SA
will create (on one or, if the Novation Cut-off Date in respect of Index Cleared
Transactions is prior to the Novation Cut-off Date in respect of Initial Single
Name Cleared Transactions, two or more occasions) Restructuring Matched
Pairs in accordance with Section 8.1 (Creation of Matched Pairs). Each such
Restructuring Matched Pair shall be composed of two Restructuring Cleared
Transactions created at the same time as and as a result of the termination of
the relevant Single Name Cleared Transactions pursuant to Section 5.2
(Creation of Restructuring Cleared Transactions) below.
LCH.Clearnet SA shall notify the relevant Matched Buyer and Matched Seller
comprised within each Restructuring Matched Pair of:
(a)

the identity of the other Clearing Member (together with the address,
fax number, telephone number, email address and other applicable
notice details of such other Clearing Member) of such Matched Pair;
and

(b)

the associated Restructuring Matched Pair Amount,

as soon as reasonably practicable following the related Compression Cut-off
Date, but in any event, at or prior to the RMP Notification Deadline.
LCH.Clearnet SA will additionally provide to DTCC all relevant "Matching
Information" (as defined in the DTCC Rules) on or prior to the Matching
Information Notification Deadline.
5.2

Creation of Restructuring Cleared Transactions
Upon the notification to the relevant Clearing Members of Restructuring
Matched Pairs, the relevant Initial Single Name Cleared Transactions,
Restructuring Cleared Transactions (created following the occurrence of a
previous Restructuring Credit Event), Spin-off Single Name Cleared
Transactions and Resulting Single Name Cleared Transactions entered into
by each Clearing Member with LCH.Clearnet SA will be deemed terminated
and new Restructuring Cleared Transactions of the same CDS Type will be
deemed to be entered into between each such Clearing Member and
LCH.Clearnet SA, with each such Restructuring Cleared Transaction having
a Floating Rate Payer Calculation Amount corresponding to the Restructuring
Matched Pair Amount of a Restructuring Matched Pair in which the relevant
Clearing Member is comprised as a Matched Buyer or a Matched Seller, as
applicable.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

30

Published on 14 April 2016

5.3

Triggering of Restructuring Cleared Transactions
Subject as set out in Section 7 (Delivery of Notices and Fallbacks), and
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the terms of any Cleared
Transaction, Clearing Members may only deliver Credit Event Notices in
relation to a Restructuring Credit Event during the CEN Triggering Period
following notification of Restructuring Matched Pairs by LCH.Clearnet SA and
subject always to the terms of the relevant Restructuring Cleared Transaction
and, where applicable, the DTCC Rules.
Any Credit Event Notice delivered in respect of a Restructuring Matched Pair
for an amount which is greater than the related Floating Rate Payer
Calculation Amount shall be ineffective as to such excess.

5.4

Notice to Exercise Movement Option
Subject as set out in Section 7 (Delivery of Notices and Fallbacks), Clearing
Members may only deliver a Notice to Exercise Movement Option during the
NEMO Triggering Period, subject always to the other terms of the relevant
Restructuring Cleared Transaction and, where applicable, the DTCC Rules.

5.5

Reversal of DC Credit Event Announcements
If a DC Credit Event Announcement made in relation to a Restructuring
Credit Event is reversed then, subject to Section 9.1(c)(iii)(B) of the 2003
ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions:

5.6

(a)

LCH.Clearnet SA shall have no obligation to create Restructuring
Matched Pairs in accordance with Section 5.1 (Creation and
Notification of Restructuring Matched Pairs), any such Restructuring
Matched Pairs so created shall be deemed not to have been created
and any Credit Event Notices delivered in connection with such
Restructuring Matched Pairs shall be deemed to be ineffective;

(b)

LCH.Clearnet SA shall, where applicable, make relevant registrations in
the TIW in order to reflect such reversal which shall also automatically
result in such registrations being made in respect of any related CCM
Client Transactions; and

(c)

Section 4.9 (Reversal of DC Credit Event Announcements and
Margining) shall apply.

Reports
Without prejudice to the notification requirements set out elsewhere in the
CDS Clearing Documentation, LCH.Clearnet SA will communicate to the
relevant Clearing Members, on the basis of information received from DTCC
or, as applicable, from Clearing Members, amongst other things:

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

31

Published on 14 April 2016

(a)

the aggregate Floating Rate Payer Calculation Amounts of
Restructuring Cleared Transactions to which they are a party and which
are the subject of Credit Event Notices; and

(b)

the results of the exercise of any Movement Option in relation to
Cleared Transactions to which they are a party,

at or around 7.00 p.m. on each day during each CEN Triggering Period and
NEMO Triggering Period, as applicable, through the reports referred to in
Section 5 of the Procedures.
For the avoidance of doubt, such communication shall not affect the validity
or effectiveness of any Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise Movement
Option which shall be subject to the terms of the relevant Restructuring
Cleared Transaction.
6.

PHYSICAL SETTLEMENT

6.1

General Terms relating to Physical Settlement
Where Physical Settlement is applicable as the Fallback Settlement Method
pursuant to Section 12.1 (Auction Settlement) or 12.17 (Movement Option) of
the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions, each Cleared Transaction will
be subject to settlement in accordance with its terms and this Section 6
(Physical Settlement).
LCH.Clearnet SA has implemented a process, as set-out in this Section 6
(Physical Settlement), pursuant to which Clearing Members will manage the
physical delivery process bilaterally in respect of any Cleared Transactions
for which Physical Settlement is applicable.
Notwithstanding such process, LCH.Clearnet SA shall remain the legal
counterparty for any such Cleared Transactions for which Physical
Settlement is applicable and shall continue to be liable with respect to its
obligations relating to such Physical Settlement, subject to its terms and this
Section 6 (Physical Settlement).

6.2

Creation and Notification of Settlement Matched Pairs
LCH.Clearnet SA will create Settlement Matched Pairs in accordance with
Section 8.1 (Creation of Matched Pairs) and notify Matched Buyer and
Matched Seller comprised within each Settlement Matched Pair of:
(a)

the identity of the other Clearing Member (together with the address,
fax number, telephone number, email address and other applicable
notice details of each such other Clearing Member); and

(b)

the associated Settlement Matched Pair Delivery Amount,

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

32

Published on 14 April 2016

at or prior to the SMP Notification Deadline.
Notwithstanding the above, the Settlement Matched Pair for a Restructuring
Cleared Transaction shall be the Restructuring Matched Pair previously
created by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Section 8.1 (Creation and
Notification of Restructuring Matched Pairs) in respect of such Restructuring
Cleared Transaction.
6.3

Physically Settled Cleared Transactions
Following the actual or deemed creation of such Settlement Matched Pairs,
the relevant Cleared Transactions in respect of which the Fallback Settlement
Method applies will be construed as if they had been terminated and new
Cleared Transactions of the same CDS Type will be deemed to have been
entered into between each such Clearing Member and LCH.Clearnet SA
(each such deemed Cleared Transaction being a "Physically Settled
Cleared Transaction").
Each such Physically Settled Cleared Transaction shall have a Floating Rate
Payer Calculation Amount corresponding to the Settlement Matched Pair
Delivery Amount of a Settlement Matched Pair in which the relevant Clearing
Member is comprised as a Matched Buyer or a Matched Seller, as applicable.

6.4

Matched Seller Calculation Agent
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in a Physically Settled Cleared
Transaction (but subject as set out in Section 6.10 (Failure to pay Physical
Settlement Amount), the "Calculation Agent" for the purposes of Article VIII
(Terms relating to Physical Settlement) and Section 9.8 (Partial Cash
Settlement Terms) of the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions shall be
the relevant Matched Seller.

6.5

Notices of Physical Settlement
(a)

No Notices of Physical Settlement until Notification of Settlement
Matched Pairs
Subject as set out at Section 7.8 (Failure to notify Matched Pairs) and
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the terms of any Cleared
Transaction, Clearing Members may not deliver any Notices of Physical
Settlement in respect of any Affected Cleared Transactions until they
have been notified of their Settlement Matched Pairs.

(b)

Notice of Physical Settlement to contain Matched Buyer Account
Information
Each Notice of Physical Settlement delivered by Matched Buyer shall
contain, in addition to the information required under the terms of the

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

33

Published on 14 April 2016

relevant Physically Settled Cleared Transaction, Matched Buyer's
account information.
(c)

LCH.Clearnet SA not Liable
LCH.Clearnet SA shall have no liability with respect to any loss, cost,
damage or expense suffered or incurred by a Matched Seller as a
result of any error or inaccuracy in any Notice of Physical Settlement or
any NOPS Amendment Notice sent by a Matched Buyer and shall have
no duty to verify any such notice or the contents thereof.

6.6

Delivery of Non-DVP Obligations
The following shall apply in relation to any Settlement Matched Pair where
the relevant Matched Buyer specifies a Non-DVP Obligation in a Notice of
Physical Settlement or NOPS Amendment Notice:
(a)

The relevant Matched Buyer shall notify LCH.Clearnet SA that it is
ready to Deliver the relevant Non-DVP Obligation at or prior to 5.30
p.m. on the Transaction Business Day prior to the date on which
Delivery is scheduled to occur. In such notice, the relevant Matched
Buyer shall also specify the amount of any expenses payable to it
under Section 9.2(c)(vi) of the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions.

(b)

LCH.Clearnet SA shall notify the relevant Matched Seller at or prior to
6.30 p.m. on the Transaction Business Day prior to the date on which
Delivery is scheduled to occur that it is obligated to pay LCH.Clearnet
SA the amount of the relevant Physical Settlement Amount
corresponding to the Outstanding Amount of such Non-DVP Obligation
and any amounts in respect of expenses notified by the relevant
Matched Buyer before 9.00 a.m. on the following Transaction Business
Day.

(c)

The relevant Matched Seller shall pay to LCH.Clearnet SA the
amount(s) so requested on or prior to 9.00 a.m. on the Transaction
Business Day immediately following the date on which the relevant
Matched Buyer notified LCH.Clearnet SA of its readiness to Deliver
provided that the request for payment has been made in a timely
manner as set out above.

(d)

LCH.Clearnet SA shall notify the relevant Matched Buyer that it has
received payment at or prior to 5.30 p.m. on the Transaction Business
Day in which LCH.Clearnet SA receives payment, provided that
payment is received by LCH.Clearnet SA at or prior to 9.00 a.m. on
such Transaction Business Day as set out above.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

34

Published on 14 April 2016

6.7

(e)

The relevant Matched Seller shall notify LCH.Clearnet SA that Delivery
has occurred by 5.30 p.m. on the Transaction Business Day on which
Matched Seller receives Delivery of the relevant Non-DVP Obligations.
Notices received after 3.30 p.m. will be deemed received on the next
following Transaction Business Day, unless LCH.Clearnet SA agrees
otherwise.

(f)

If and to the extent that LCH.Clearnet SA has received payment from
the relevant Matched Seller of the Physical Settlement Amount in full on
a timely basis as set out above, LCH.Clearnet SA shall pay the
Physical Settlement Amount and any expenses due to the relevant
Matched Buyer under paragraph 9.2(c)(vi) of the 2003 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions on or prior to 9.00 a.m. on the Transaction
Business Day following the Transaction Business Day on which
LCH.Clearnet SA receives the notice referred to in sub-paragraph (e)
above from the relevant Matched Seller.

(g)

If and to the extent that Delivery of the relevant Non-DVP Obligations
has not been effected by the relevant Matched Buyer in accordance
with terms of the relevant Physically Settled Cleared Transaction as of
the expiry of the third Transaction Business Day following delivery of
the relevant Matched Buyer's notice referred to above, the relevant
Matched Seller may request LCH.Clearnet SA to repay the Physical
Settlement Amount not earlier than the first Transaction Business Day
following the date on which such request is effectively delivered to
LCH.Clearnet SA.

Alternative Delivery Procedure
A Matched Buyer and Matched Seller comprising a Settlement Matched Pair
may elect to exercise their rights against and perform obligations to
LCH.Clearnet SA in relation to the Settlement Matched Pair Delivery Amount
(or any portion thereof) directly as between themselves. To exercise such
option, the relevant Matched Buyer and Matched Seller must each notify
LCH.Clearnet SA accordingly (in the form set out in Appendix V hereto)
specifying the relevant Matched Contracts in respect of the related relevant
Settlement Matched Pair Delivery Amounts and obtain the consent of
LCH.Clearnet SA, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld or
delayed by more than one Transaction Business Day following receipt of
such notification by Matched Buyer and Matched Seller.
With effect from the time that LCH.Clearnet SA confirms its consent, the
Settlement Matched Pair Delivery Amount will be reduced by the amount
specified in the joint notice of the relevant Matched Buyer and Matched
Seller, and the relevant Matched Buyer and Matched Seller shall each
perform their obligations to each other and shall each acquire enforcement

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

35

Published on 14 April 2016

rights in respect of the other party's obligations to it pursuant to the Contracts
(Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 in respect of any such reduction as agreed
between them.
6.8

Buy-in of Bonds – Matched Seller has entered into CCM Client
Transaction
The following provisions shall solely be applicable to a Matched Seller
that is a CCM in respect of the Matched Contracts of the Settlement
Matched Pair if such Matched Seller notifies Matched Buyer and
LCH.Clearnet SA that it has a CCM Client Transaction which
corresponds to the Matched Seller Contract:
(a)

Buy-in of Bonds – Settlement Matched Pair
Section 9.9 (Buy-in of Bonds Not Delivered) of the 2003 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions shall not apply in respect of the Matched
Contracts of the Settlement Matched Pair.

(b)

Deemed Buy-in of Bonds resulting from CCM Client Transaction of
Matched Seller that is a CCM
Provided that Physical Settlement has not already occurred in respect
of the Matched Contracts of a Settlement Matched Pair, if:
(i)

the Matched Seller that is a CCM receives a Buy-in Notice from
its CCM Client in respect of the CCM Client Transaction between
such Matched Seller and its CCM Client which is validly delivered
pursuant to the terms of such CCM Client Transaction (including
the Mandatory Provisions), then such Matched Seller shall notify
Matched Buyer and LCH.Clearnet.SA of its receipt of such Buy-in
Notice and of the content thereof and Matched Buyer's right to
Deliver the Relevant Bonds specified in the relevant Buy-in Notice
shall be suspended until the fourth Business Day (inclusive)
following the Buy-In Date specified in the relevant Buy-In Notice
(the "Deemed Buy-in Period"); and

(ii)

such Matched Seller notifies Matched Buyer and LCH.Clearnet
SA that it has been notified by its CCM Client pursuant to Section
‎9.9 (Buy-in of Bonds Not Delivered) of the 2003 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions that a Buy-in Price has been determined in
respect of Relevant Bonds for the purposes of the CCM Client
Transaction between such Matched Seller and its CCM Client,
then on the third Business Day following receipt by Matched
Seller of such notice from its CCM Client (which such date
Matched Seller shall specify) (the "Buy-in Effective Date"):

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

36

Published on 14 April 2016

(A)

Matched Buyer will be deemed to have Delivered to such
Matched Seller an outstanding principal balance of the
Deliverable Obligations specified in the Notice of Physical
Settlement or any NOPS Amendment Notice, as applicable,
for which a Buy-in Price was determined by the CCM Client;
and

(B)

the Physical Settlement Amount to be paid by such
Matched Seller to Matched Buyer in respect of the Matched
Contracts of the Settlement Matched Pair shall be reduced
(but not below zero) by an amount equal to the amount by
which the Physical Settlement Amount to be paid to such
Matched Seller by its CCM Client in respect of the CCM
Client Transaction has been reduced pursuant to Section
‎9.9 (Buy-in of Bonds Not Delivered) of the 2003 ISDA
Credit Derivatives Definitions.

Such Matched Seller shall notify Matched Buyer and
LCH.Clearnet SA of the outstanding principal balance of the
Deliverable Obligations and the Physical Settlement Amount
reduction determined in respect of its CCM Client Transaction for
the purposes of (A) and (B)(B) above.
6.9

Alternative Procedures relating to Loans – Buyer Right to Deliver
(Section 9.10(a) 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions)
The following provision shall solely be applicable in respect of the
Matched Contracts of the Settlement Matched Pair if a Matched Buyer
that is a CCM notifies Matched Seller and LCH.Clearnet SA that it has a
CCM Client Transaction which corresponds to the Matched Buyer
Contract:
If a Matched Buyer that is a CCM notifies Matched Seller and LCH.Clearnet
SA that it has received a Bond or Loan from its CCM Client in respect of its
CCM Client Transaction pursuant to Section 9.10(a) (Alternative Procedures
Relating to Loans Not Delivered) of the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions, then such Bonds or Loans shall be deemed specified in the
Notice of Physical Settlement or any NOPS Amendment Notice for the
purposes of the Matched Contracts of the Settlement Matched Pair.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

37

Published on 14 April 2016

6.10

Failure to pay Physical Settlement Amount
If, in relation to any Settlement Matched Pair, a Matched Seller fails to pay all
or part of the Physical Settlement Amount (the Failed Amount) to the related
Matched Buyer, as designee for LCH.Clearnet SA, when due:
(a)

the relevant Matched Buyer may and the relevant Matched Seller shall,
as soon as practicable, give notice in writing to LCH.Clearnet SA, giving
all material details of the Settlement Matched Pair involved, the relevant
failure to pay and the Failed Amount;

(b)

such failure to pay shall not constitute or be deemed to constitute a
breach of contract, event of default or failure to pay by LCH.Clearnet
SA under the CDS Clearing Documentation or otherwise (but such
failure to pay may, for the avoidance of doubt, constitute a breach of
the CDS Clearing Documentation and/or a Payment Failure for the
purposes of Article 4.3.1.1 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book by or with
respect to the relevant Clearing Member);

(c)

if the relevant Matched Buyer elects to notify LCH.Clearnet SA of such
failure to pay as contemplated above, such Matched Buyer may give
any such notice as soon as reasonably practicable after the occurrence
of such failure to pay by the relevant Matched Seller;

(d)

upon notice being given to LCH.Clearnet SA by the relevant Matched
Buyer, "Cash Settlement" between the relevant Matched Buyer and
LCH.Clearnet SA and the relevant Matched Seller and LCH.Clearnet
SA pursuant to the Partial Cash Settlement Terms (set out in Section
9.8 (Partial Cash Settlement Terms) of the 2003 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions, as amended by this CDS Clearing Supplement)
shall be deemed to apply to the relevant Physically Settled Cleared
Transactions of the Settlement Matched Pair with respect to the
Deliverable Obligations corresponding to the Failed Amount as though:
(i)

the Deliverable Obligations not Delivered were Undeliverable
Obligations;

(ii)

the Latest Permissible Physical Settlement Date were the date on
which the relevant Matched Buyer gave the relevant notice to
LCH.Clearnet SA;

(iii)

Indicative Quotations were not applicable;

(iv)

the relevant Matched Buyer were the Calculation Agent in respect
of the Physically Settled Cleared Transaction of the Settlement
Matched Pair to which it is a direct party; and

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

38

Published on 14 April 2016

(v)

(e)

6.11

the Cash Settlement Amount determined in respect of the
Physically Settled Cleared Transaction between Matched Buyer
and LCH.Clearnet SA is also the Cash Settlement Amount in
respect of the corresponding Physically Settled Cleared
Transaction of the Settlement Matched Pair; and

LCH.Clearnet SA and the relevant Matched Buyer will settle the
relevant Physically Settled Cleared Transaction accordingly.

Partial Cash Settlement due to Impossibility or Illegality
Section 9.3 (Partial Cash Settlement due to Impossibility or Illegality) of the
2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions shall apply to a Physically Settled
Transaction in the circumstances contemplated therein, provided that
Matched Buyer or Matched Seller notifies the other Clearing Member
comprised in the relevant Settlement Matched Pair and LCH.Clearnet SA
accordingly.
In such case, the related Physically Settled Cleared Transaction entered into
between LCH.Clearnet SA and the other Clearing Member comprised in the
relevant Settlement Matched Pair shall likewise be subject to "Cash
Settlement" pursuant to the Partial Cash Settlement Terms and Section 6.14
(Consequences of Cash Settlement).

6.12

Fallback to Cash Settlement in respect of Non-Deliverable Obligations
(a)

If Matched Buyer is not permitted to Deliver one or more Deliverable
Obligations (such Deliverable Obligations, the Non-Deliverable
Obligations) specified in the relevant Notice of Physical Settlement or
NOPS Amendment Notice to Matched Seller as designee for
LCH.Clearnet SA in the relevant Matched Pair because:
(i)

the amount of such Deliverable Obligation to be Delivered is less
than the relevant minimum denomination of such Deliverable
Obligation; or

(ii)

such Matched Seller is not a permitted transferee under such
Deliverable Obligation (and, in the case of this sub-section (ii),
such circumstance would not constitute an illegality or
impossibility outside the control of a relevant party for the
purposes of Section 9.3 (Partial Cash Settlement due to
Impossibility or Illegality) of the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions),

then it shall notify the relevant Matched Seller and LCH.Clearnet SA (in
the form set out in Appendix VI hereto) accordingly describing in
reasonable detail the relevant circumstances.
LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

39

Published on 14 April 2016

With effect from such notification, such occurrence shall be treated, in
relation to each relevant Physically Settled Cleared Transaction, as an
illegality or impossibility outside the control of a relevant party for the
purpose of Section 9.3 (Partial Cash Settlement Due to Impossibility or
Illegality) of the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions.
(b)

6.13

Upon notice being given to LCH.Clearnet SA by Matched Buyer under
sub-paragraph (a) of this Section 6.12 (Fallback to Cash Settlement in
respect of Non-Deliverable Obligations), "Cash Settlement" pursuant to
the Partial Cash Settlement Terms shall be deemed to apply to the
Matched Contracts in respect of the relevant Settlement Matched Pair
with respect to the Non-Deliverable Obligations as though the NonDeliverable Obligations were Undeliverable Obligations and the
provisions set out in Section 6.14 (Consequences of Cash Settlement)
of this CDS Clearing Supplement shall apply.

Cash Settlement Resulting from CCM Client Transaction of a Matched
Buyer that is a CCM
The following provision shall solely be applicable in respect of the
Matched Contracts of the Settlement Matched Pair if a Matched Buyer
that is a CCM notifies Matched Seller and LCH.Clearnet SA that it has a
CCM Client Transaction which corresponds to the Matched Buyer
Contract:
If a Matched Buyer that is a CCM notifies Matched Seller and LCH.Clearnet
SA that the corresponding CCM Client Transaction between such Matched
Buyer and its CCM Client is to be settled (in whole or in part) by Cash
Settlement pursuant to Section ‎9.3 (Partial Cash Settlement Due to
Impossibility or Illegality) of the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions or
Mandatory Provision 7.2 (Fallback to Cash Settlement in respect of NonDeliverable Obligations), then:
(a)

"Cash Settlement" shall be deemed to apply (in whole or in part, as
applicable) to the Matched Contracts of the Settlement Matched Pair
pursuant to the Partial Cash Settlement Terms and Section 6.14
(Consequences of Cash Settlement);

(b)

the 'Undeliverable Obligations' for the purposes of the Partial Cash
Settlement Terms shall be the Undeliverable Obligations or NonDeliverable Obligations in respect of the corresponding CCM Client
Transaction; and

(c)

the Cash Settlement Amount and the Cash Settlement Date in respect
of the Matched Contracts of the Settlement Matched Pair shall be the
same as the Cash Settlement Amount and the Cash Settlement Date
determined in respect of the corresponding CCM Client Transaction.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

40

Published on 14 April 2016

6.14

Consequences of Cash Settlement
If the circumstances set out in either Section 6.11 (Partial Cash Settlement
Due to Impossibility or Illegality) or paragraph (a) of Section 6.12 (Fallback to
Cash Settlement in respect of Non-Deliverable Obligations) or Section 6.13
(Cash Settlement Resulting from CCM Client Transaction of a Matched Buyer
that is a CCM) apply, then:

6.15

(a)

the Latest Permissible Physical Settlement Date in respect of the
relevant Physically Settled Cleared Transaction will be deemed to be
the first date on which the relevant Matched Buyer or Matched Seller
effectively gave the relevant notice to both LCH.Clearnet SA and the
other Clearing Member as referred to in Section 6.11 (Partial Cash
Settlement Due to Impossibility or Illegality) or paragraph (a) of Section
6.12 (Fallback to Cash Settlement in respect of Non-Deliverable
Obligations) or Section 6.13 (Cash Settlement Resulting from CCM
Client Transaction of a Matched Buyer that is a CCM) above, as
applicable, (and for these purposes, Section 9.7 (Latest Permissible
Physical Settlement Date) of the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions shall not apply);

(b)

the relevant Matched Buyer will be deemed to be the Calculation Agent;

(c)

LCH.Clearnet SA and the relevant Matched Buyer will settle the
applicable Matched Buyer Contract, and LCH.Clearnet SA and the
relevant Matched Seller will settle the applicable Matched Seller
Contract, accordingly; and

(d)

where sub-paragraph (a)(ii) of Section 6.12 (Fallback to Cash
Settlement in respect of Non-Deliverable Obligations) applies,
Indicative Quotations shall not be applicable.

Amendments to Section 9.8(k) of 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions
Solely for the purposes of Section 6.11 (Partial Cash Settlement due to
Impossibility or Illegality), Section 6.12 (Fallback to Cash Settlement in
respect of Non-Deliverable Obligations), Section 6.13 (Cash Settlement
Resulting from CCM Client Transaction of a Matched Buyer that is a CCM)
and Section 6.14 (Consequences of Cash Settlement) of this CDS Clearing
Supplement, Section 9.8(k) of the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions is
amended by inserting the following at the beginning thereof:
"(A) For the purposes hereof, in addition to the requirements of Section
7.10, each firm Quotation shall:

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

41

Published on 14 April 2016

(B)
6.16

(1)

be for a transaction with Matched Buyer (or its designee) (the
Relevant Buyer) pursuant to which the Relevant Buyer agrees to
Deliver the Deliverable Obligations to the Dealer submitting the
firm quotation (the Quoting Dealer), which transaction shall be
governed by documentation that is consistent with market
practice applicable to the sale and purchase of Deliverable
Obligations on the Valuation Date (which may be determined by
the relevant Credit Derivatives Determinations Committee),
including, without limitation, a representation that the Quoting
Dealer has completed all "know your customer" or similar
requirements under all applicable laws, regulations and internal
compliance procedures relating to a transaction with the Relevant
Buyer and in respect of the Reference Entity;

(2)

be capable of acceptance by the Relevant Buyer (for such
purposes, each firm Quotation must, inter alia, be obtained from a
Dealer with whom the Relevant Buyer, in its sole and absolute
discretion, determines that it is able, in accordance with all its
internal compliance and policy requirements, to transact and to
Deliver the Deliverable Obligations) and be open for acceptance
by the relevant party for at least 30 minutes; and

(3)

be obtained on the basis that if the Relevant Buyer agrees to
Deliver the Deliverable Obligations to such Quoting Dealer on the
terms set forth herein, such Quoting Dealer agrees to pay the
settlement amount (calculated and payable for this purpose in
accordance with the relevant market standard documentation and
based on the price so quoted) that would be payable to the
Relevant Buyer for such Deliverable Obligations.

Otherwise,".

Subsequent Determination by the Credit Derivatives Determinations
Committee with respect to an Auction
If the Fallback Settlement Method applies in respect of a Cleared Transaction
and a subsequent resolution of the Credit Derivatives Determinations
Committee determines that Transaction Auction Settlement Terms will be
published, LCH.Clearnet SA shall have no obligation to create Settlement
Matched Pairs in accordance with Section 6.2 (Creation and Notification of
Settlement Matched Pairs).
Unless settlement has occurred with respect to any Settlement Matched Pairs
prior to such determination, any such Settlement Matched Pairs so created
shall be deemed not to have been created and any notices delivered in
connection with such Settlement Matched Pairs shall be deemed to be
ineffective.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

42

Published on 14 April 2016

LCH.Clearnet SA shall effect any relevant registrations in the TIW in order to
reflect the application of Auction Settlement as the Settlement Method in
respect of the relevant Cleared Transactions.
6.17

Physical Settlement Costs
If the Fallback Settlement Method applies in respect of a Cleared Transaction
and any amounts are payable in relation to any costs or expenses of Physical
Settlement, then:
(a)

where such amount would otherwise be payable by LCH.Clearnet SA to
Matched Buyer or Matched Seller (the Recipient), such amount shall
be payable to the Recipient by the other party to the Matched Contract
who is not the Recipient, as designee to pay such amount on behalf of
LCH.Clearnet SA; and

(b)

where such amount would otherwise be payable to LCH.Clearnet SA by
Matched Buyer or Matched Seller (the Payer), such amount shall be
payable by the Payer to the other party to the Matched Contract who is
not the Payer, as designee to receive such amount on behalf of
LCH.Clearnet SA.

Any Matched Seller or Matched Buyer who is required to make any payment
as designee on behalf of LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to this Section 6.17 shall
not be entitled to any reimbursement from LCH.Clearnet SA in respect of
such amount.
Any Matched Seller or Matched Buyer who receives any payment pursuant to
this Section 6.17 shall not be obliged to remit to LCH.Clearnet SA any such
amount so received (without prejudice to any rights of LCH.Clearnet SA
where there is a failure to Deliver).
LCH.Clearnet SA shall not be liable to a Matched Buyer or a Matched Seller
for any of the costs and expenses of Physical Settlement of any Cleared
Transaction.
6.18

Representations and Agreements relating to Physical Settlement
(a)

Claims by Matched Seller against LCH.Clearnet SA in respect of
Obligations Delivered by Physical Settlement
If a Matched Seller pursues a claim against LCH.Clearnet SA under
Sections 9.2(a), (b), (c)(i) or (c)(iv) of the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions in respect of any obligations Delivered by way of Physical
Settlement of any Matched Seller Contract, then:
(i)

notwithstanding any provision of the 2003 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions to the contrary, LCH.Clearnet SA shall

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

43

Published on 14 April 2016

only be liable to make payments to that Matched Seller in respect
of that claim to the extent of amounts recovered, including,
without limitation, any amounts recovered by way of set-off or
netting, by LCH.Clearnet SA from or on behalf of the related
Matched Buyer in respect of any corresponding claims under or in
connection with the Matched Buyer Contract (including, without
limitation, following the declaration of an Event of Default in
respect of such Matched Buyer) and after deducting any costs
and expenses reasonably incurred by LCH.Clearnet in pursuing
such corresponding claims for recovery under or in connection
with the Matched Buyer Contract;

(b)

(ii)

LCH.Clearnet SA will use reasonable efforts to pursue any claim
it may have against the related Matched Buyer but,
notwithstanding Section 6.18(a)(i) above, LCH.Clearnet SA will, in
the pursuit of such claims, act as though its liability to Matched
Seller under the Matched Seller Contract was not limited or
restricted in any way; and

(iii)

references to indemnity provisions set out in Section 9.2(a),
9.2(b) and 9.2(c)(iv) of the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions shall, in connection with a Matched Buyer Contract, be
interpreted without regard to the limitations to Matched Seller's
recourse to LCH.Clearnet SA under the corresponding Matched
Seller Contract imposed by the provisions of this Section 6.18(a)
and such limitations shall not restrict a Matched Seller from
making a claim or raising a Dispute.

Right of Matched Seller to enforce against Matched Buyer
Without prejudice to paragraph (a) above, a Matched Seller shall be
entitled to enforce Sections 9.2(a), (b), (c)(i) and (c)(iv) of the 2003
ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions against the related Matched Buyer
in respect of any obligations Delivered by way of Physical Settlement of
any Physically Settled Cleared Transaction under the Contracts (Rights
of Third Parties) Act 1999 as though Matched Seller were party to the
relevant Matched Buyer Contract in place of LCH.Clearnet SA.

(c)

Satisfaction of Claim by Matched Buyer discharges Liabilities
owed to and by LCH.Clearnet SA
For the avoidance of doubt, if a Matched Buyer satisfies a claim made
by a Matched Seller directly against the relevant Matched Buyer under
Sections 9.2(a), (b), (c)(i) or (c)(iv) of the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions pursuant to the rights granted to such Matched Seller under
paragraph (b) above, such satisfaction shall also constitute complete
satisfaction and discharge of the corresponding liability of such

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

44

Published on 14 April 2016

Matched Buyer to LCH.Clearnet SA and the corresponding liability of
LCH.Clearnet SA to such Matched Seller in respect of such claim.
(d)

Effect of Illegality or Tax or other Expense resulting from
Designation through Creation of Matched Pairs
The last sentence of Section 9.2(c)(iv) of the 2003 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions shall not operate so as to prevent LCH.Clearnet
SA from creating any Matched Pair in accordance with this CDS
Clearing Supplement, and LCH.Clearnet SA shall have no obligation to
grant any indemnity with respect to any Tax, loss or cost to any
Matched Buyer or Matched Seller thereunder.
If the circumstances contemplated at Section 9.2(c)(iv)(A) or (B) of the
2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions apply in respect of any
Physically Settled Cleared Transaction and any related Settlement
Matched Pair (in the case of (B), as notified by the Clearing Member
which is the non-designating party for such purpose to the other
Clearing Member comprised in the relevant Settlement Matched Pair
prior to the first Delivery Date), then an impossibility shall be deemed to
have occurred with respect to Physical Settlement of the relevant
Physically Settled Cleared Transactions, and Section 9.3 (Partial Cash
Settlement due to Impossibility or Illegality) of the 2003 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions (as amended by this CDS Clearing Supplement)
shall apply.

6.19

Miscellaneous Provisions relating to Physical Settlement
(a)

Margin
For the avoidance of doubt, LCH.Clearnet SA will continue to call all
Margin and such Margin will remain due in relation to any Cleared
Transaction to which Physical Settlement applies until:

(b)

(i)

LCH.Clearnet SA has received a Physical Settlement Notification
from each Clearing Member;

(ii)

LCH.Clearnet SA has received a No Physical Settlement
Confirmation from each Clearing Member; or

(iii)

in each case, any related dispute is referred to and finally
resolved by arbitration or by litigation, as applicable, in
accordance with the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol, subject to
the provisions of Sections 8 and 9 of the Procedures.

Notification of Completion of Physical Settlement

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

45

Published on 14 April 2016

Upon completion of Physical Settlement by the relevant Matched Pair
of a Physically Settled Cleared Transaction, Matched Buyer and
Matched Seller shall inform LCH.Clearnet SA as soon as reasonably
practicable and in any event before the date falling two Transaction
Business Days following such completion (the Physical Settlement
Confirmation Deadline) by notice (a Physical Settlement
Confirmation) in the form set out at Appendix VII hereto.
(c)

Notification that Physical Settlement will not occur
If no Notice of Physical Settlement has been delivered within the
relevant time period permitted for such delivery in accordance with the
terms of the relevant Physically Settled Cleared Transaction and,
accordingly, Physical Settlement will not, under the terms of the
relevant Physically Settled Cleared Transaction, occur, Matched Buyer
and Matched Seller shall inform LCH.Clearnet SA as soon as
reasonably practicable thereafter and in any event before the date
falling two Transaction Business Days following the relevant date after
which delivery of a Notice of Physical Settlement is no longer permitted
in accordance with the terms of the relevant Physically Settled Cleared
Transaction (the No Physical Settlement Confirmation Deadline) by
notice (a No Physical Settlement Confirmation) in the form set out at
Appendix VIII hereto.

(d)

Dispute regarding Physical Settlement
If LCH.Clearnet SA receives a Physical Settlement Confirmation or No
Physical Settlement Confirmation from one relevant Matched Buyer or
Matched Seller only at or prior to the relevant Physical Settlement
Confirmation Deadline or No Physical Settlement Confirmation
Deadline, as the case may be, there shall be deemed to be a Dispute
with respect to the Physically Settled Cleared Transactions between
LCH.Clearnet SA and each relevant Clearing Member.

7.

DELIVERY OF NOTICES AND FALLBACKS

7.1

General Rules relating to Notices
(a)

Methods of Delivery and deemed Time of Delivery
Subject to Section 7.2 (Oral Notices) and without prejudice to Section
1.10 (Requirements Regarding Notices) and the remaining provisions
of the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions (including, for the
avoidance of doubt, in relation to notices permitted to be given orally),
any notice or other communication in respect of any Cleared
Transaction may be given in any manner described below and will be
deemed effective as indicated:

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

46

Published on 14 April 2016

(i)

if delivered in person or by courier, on the date and at the time it
is delivered;

(ii)

if sent by facsimile transmission, on the date it is received by a
responsible employee of the recipient in legible form (it being
agreed that the burden of proving receipt will be on the sender
and will not be met by a transmission report generated by the
sender’s facsimile machine);

(iii)

if sent by certified or registered mail (airmail, if overseas) or the
equivalent (return receipt requested), on the date it is delivered or
its delivery is attempted; or

(iv)

if sent by electronic messaging system (including e-mail or any
other electronic access solution established by LCH.Clearnet SA
for such purpose), on the date it is received,

unless the date of that delivery (or attempted delivery) or that receipt,
as applicable, is not a Transaction Business Day or that communication
is delivered (or attempted) or received, as applicable, pursuant to the
above after 6.00 p.m. in the location of the recipient on a Transaction
Business Day, in which case that communication will be deemed given
and effective on the first following day that is a Transaction Business
Day.
(b)

Notices from or to LCH.Clearnet SA
Any such notice or communication given by LCH.Clearnet SA to a
Clearing Member or vice versa shall (except where delivered via a
relevant DTCC Notice Facility) be given to the address or number
previously specified in or previously notified for the relevant purpose in
accordance with the CDS Admissions Agreement or the Procedures.

(c)

Manual Notices between Clearing Members
Notices given by a Clearing Member to another Clearing Member
comprised in a relevant Matched Pair and which are not delivered via a
relevant DTCC Notice Facility shall be given to the address or number
notified by LCH.Clearnet SA to the deliveror pursuant to Sections 5.1
(Creation and Notification of Restructuring Matched Pairs) or 6.2
(Creation and Notification of Settlement Matched Pairs).
Such notices shall only be deemed to be delivered effectively by
LCH.Clearnet SA through the relevant Clearing Member as its designee
as against the recipient where the address or number so notified by
LCH.Clearnet SA corresponds in all material respects to the address or

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

47

Published on 14 April 2016

number, as applicable, specified by such recipient in or pursuant to the
CDS Admissions Agreement.
(d)

No Obligation on LCH.Clearnet SA to verify Signatories
LCH.Clearnet SA shall have no obligation to verify the authority of any
signatory of any notice delivered by any Clearing Member directly
pursuant to this Section 7 (Delivery of Notices and Fallbacks).

7.2

Oral Notices
Notwithstanding the provisions of the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions, where, by way of exception as contemplated in this Section 7,
Credit Event Notices and Notices to Exercise Movement Option are to be
delivered directly to LCH.Clearnet SA (and not via a relevant DTCC Notice
Facility), such notices may not be delivered by telephone.

7.3

Credit Event Notices and NEMOs
(a)

Credit Event Notices and NEMOs to be given via DTCC
Credit Event Notices and Notices to Exercise Movement Option shall
be delivered by way of the relevant DTCC Notice Facility, save if and as
expressly stated to the contrary in this Section 7 or expressly agreed by
LCH.Clearnet SA. The deemed time of delivery of any such notices
shall be as set out in the DTCC Rules from time to time.

(b)

Credit Event Notices and NEMOs delivered in respect of CCM
Client Transaction
If a Matched Buyer or a Matched Seller that is a CCM receives a valid
Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise Movement Option from its
CCM Client in respect of a CCM Client Transaction by way of the
relevant DTCC Notice Facility, such notice shall be deemed also to be
a Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise Movement Option (as
applicable) for the purposes of the corresponding Matched Contracts of
the Settlement Matched Pair.

7.4

Notification of DTCC Failure and Resolution
(a)

LCH.Clearnet SA to notify Clearing Members of DTCC Failure
Event
If DTCC notifies LCH.Clearnet SA or LCH.Clearnet SA otherwise
becomes aware that the relevant DTCC Notice Facility is or will be
unavailable to process all or substantially all Credit Event Notices or
Notices to Exercise Movement Option, as applicable, with respect to a
Restructuring Credit Event in a timely manner (a DTCC Failure Event),

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

48

Published on 14 April 2016

then LCH.Clearnet SA will, as soon as reasonably practicable and in
any event within one hour of such notification or of LCH.Clearnet SA
becoming aware of such non-availability, as applicable, notify all
relevant Clearing Members of such occurrence, including the time at
which such failure occurred (or, if LCH.Clearnet SA is not notified of
such time by or on behalf of DTCC, the time at which LCH.Clearnet
received the relevant notification from or on behalf of DTCC or
becomes aware of the relevant non-availability) (the DTCC Failure
Event Time). LCH.Clearnet SA shall also publish such information on
its Website as soon as reasonably practicable after becoming aware of
a DTCC Failure Event.
(b)

LCH.Clearnet SA to notify Clearing Members of Resolution of
DTCC Failure Event
If, subsequent to a DTCC Failure Event, DTCC (or a third party
designated under the DTCC Rules from time to time) notifies
LCH.Clearnet SA that a DTCC Failure Event previously notified to
Clearing Members is no longer in effect, LCH.Clearnet SA will as soon
as reasonably practicable notify all relevant Clearing Members
accordingly, including the time (the DTCC Resolution Time) (which
must be no earlier than 30 minutes following the time of such
notification) at which such DTCC Failure Event is deemed to have been
resolved and following which the relevant DTCC Notice Facility is
operative for the purposes of delivery of relevant notices relating to
Restructuring Cleared Transactions (including transactions in respect of
which notices may have been delivered directly pursuant to Section 7.5
(Consequences of DTCC failure). LCH.Clearnet SA shall also publish
such information on its Website as soon as reasonably practicable after
notifying Clearing Members that the DTCC Failure Event is no longer in
effect and of the DTCC Resolution Time.

(c)

Notices given prior to DTCC Resolution Time to be confirmed to
DTCC
LCH.Clearnet SA and, to the extent so requested by LCH.Clearnet SA,
each Clearing Member shall, as soon as reasonably practicable and to
the extent permitted by DTCC, provide or confirm to DTCC details of
any relevant notices (in the case of a Clearing Member, being any
relevant notices delivered directly by such Clearing Member) given in
respect of Cleared Transactions prior to the DTCC Resolution Time, so
as to permit delivery of subsequent notices in respect of such Cleared
Transactions via the relevant DTCC Notice Facility.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

49

Published on 14 April 2016

7.5

Consequences of DTCC Failure
From (and including) the DTCC Failure Event Time to (but excluding) the
DTCC Resolution Time:
(a)

Section 7.3(a) (Credit Event Notices and NEMOs to be given via
DTCC) shall not apply and accordingly Credit Event Notices and
Notices to Exercise Movement Option shall be delivered directly (and
not via the relevant DTCC Notice Facility);

(b)

any notice delivered via the relevant DTCC Notice Facility prior to the
DTCC Failure Event Time will be valid and will not be affected by such
DTCC Failure Event; and

(c)

any notice delivered or purported to be delivered via the relevant DTCC
Notice Facility at or following the DTCC Failure Event Time but prior to
the DTCC Resolution Time will not be valid and effective.

Section 7.3(a) (Credit Event Notices and NEMOs to be given via DTCC) shall
apply with effect from the DTCC Resolution Time and, accordingly, any notice
thereafter delivered or purported to be delivered directly (and not via the
relevant DTCC Notice Facility) will not be valid and effective.
7.6

Clearing Member Communications Failure Event
(a)

Right to deliver Notices manually following Clearing Member
Communications Failure Event
If a Clearing Member is affected by a significant communications or
information technology failure resulting in it being impossible or
impractical for such Clearing Member to deliver any Credit Event Notice
in relation to a Restructuring Credit Event or any Notice to Exercise
Movement Option via a relevant DTCC Notice Facility (a Clearing
Member Communications Failure Event) it may, notwithstanding
Section 7.3(a) (Credit Event Notices and NEMOs to be given via
DTCC) deliver Credit Event Notices and Notices to Exercise Movement
Option directly (and not via the relevant DTCC Notice Facility).

(b)

Clearing Member to notify LCH.Clearnet SA of Occurrence of
Clearing Member Communications Failure Event
Following the occurrence of a Clearing Member Communications
Failure Event, the affected Clearing Member shall, within one hour of
delivering any Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise Movement
Option directly, deliver to LCH.Clearnet SA a notice (in the form set out
at Appendix IX hereto) signed by a senior officer (such as a managing
director or equivalent) of such Clearing Member certifying that it is
affected by a Clearing Member Communications Failure Event (or, if

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

50

Published on 14 April 2016

such Clearing Member is unable to deliver such notice in writing, orally
by telephone).
LCH.Clearnet SA shall notify all Clearing Members accordingly as soon
as reasonably practicable and in any event within one hour of receipt of
any such notification.
(c)

Notices to Clearing Member affected by Clearing Member
Communications Failure Event
For the avoidance of doubt, Section 7.3(a) (Credit Event Notices and
NEMOs to be given via DTCC) shall continue to apply in respect of
notices given to the affected Clearing Member by Clearing Members
comprised in any Matched Pair in respect of which the affected
Clearing Member is a Matched Buyer or Matched Seller.

(d)

Notification of Resolution of Clearing Member Communications
Failure Event
As soon as reasonably practicable upon a Clearing Member ceasing to
be subject to a Clearing Member Communications Failure Event, it shall
notify LCH.Clearnet SA accordingly (in the form set out at Appendix X
hereto) and thereupon Section 7.3(a) (Credit Event Notices and
NEMOs to be given via DTCC) shall apply and, accordingly, any Credit
Event Notice or Notice to Exercise Movement Option thereafter
delivered or purported to be delivered directly (and not via the relevant
DTCC Notice Facility) will not be valid and effective.

(e)

Clearing Member Duty to Mitigate
A Clearing Member which is subject to a Clearing Member
Communications Failure Event shall use reasonable endeavours to
mitigate the operational impact on other Clearing Members and
LCH.Clearnet SA of any Clearing Member Communications Failure
Event, to cure such Clearing Member Communications Failure Event as
soon as possible and to ensure that the circumstances giving rise to the
relevant Clearing Member Communications Failure Event do not recur.

(f)

Breach by Clearing Member does not Invalidate Valid Notices
Without prejudice to any other rights or remedy of LCH.Clearnet SA,
any breach by a Clearing Member of the provisions of this Section 7.6
shall not cause any Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise
Movement Option delivered otherwise than in accordance with the
relevant Restructuring Cleared Transaction, which would otherwise be
valid and effective, to be invalid or ineffective.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

51

Published on 14 April 2016

7.7

Clearing Member Acknowledgements
(a)

Duty to deliver Clearing Member Acknowledgements
Each Clearing Member shall notify LCH.Clearnet SA or deliver a copy
to LCH.Clearnet SA of any notice delivered or received by such
Clearing Member to or from another Clearing Member comprised in a
Matched Pair, including, without limitation, any Credit Event Notice or
Notice to Exercise Movement Option which was delivered or received
directly (and not via a DTCC Notice Facility) pursuant to Sections 7.5
(Consequences of DTCC Failure) or 7.6 (Clearing Member
Communications Failure Event), and which such Clearing Member
asserts or acknowledges was effective for the purposes of this CDS
Clearing Supplement and the relevant Cleared Transactions (such
notification, or delivery of such copy, in respect of any relevant notice, a
Clearing Member Acknowledgement) by no later than 6.00 p.m. on:
(i)

in the case of a Notice of Physical Settlement or NOPS
Amendment Notice, the date falling two Transaction Business
Days following the date on which such notice was sent; or

(ii)

in the case of any other notice, on the last date on which such
notice could validly be sent,

(in each case, the Notice Acknowledgement Deadline).
(b)

Clearing Member Acknowledgement received from both Clearing
Members
Where
LCH.Clearnet
SA
receives
a
Clearing
Member
Acknowledgement in respect of any notice from both relevant Clearing
Members comprised in a Matched Pair at or prior to the Notice
Acknowledgement Deadline, LCH.Clearnet SA shall perform its
obligations in respect of the relevant Cleared Transactions in
accordance with and subject to the remaining provisions of the CDS
Clearing Documentation.

(c)

Clearing Member Acknowledgement received from one Clearing
Member
Where
LCH.Clearnet
SA
receives
a
Clearing
Member
Acknowledgement in respect of any notice from one relevant Clearing
Member only at or prior to the Notice Acknowledgement Deadline, the
provisions of Section 7.11 (Disputes as to Notices) shall apply and
LCH.Clearnet SA and each relevant Clearing Member shall perform
their obligations in respect of the relevant Cleared Transactions in
accordance with and subject to the remaining provisions of the CDS

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

52

Published on 14 April 2016

Clearing Documentation and the terms of any final resolution of the
relevant dispute, as agreed between the relevant parties or as
determined by arbitration or by litigation, as applicable, in accordance
with the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol, subject to the provisions of
Sections 8 and 9 of the Procedures.
In such case, LCH.Clearnet SA shall notify the Clearing Member from
which it has not received a Clearing Member Acknowledgement of the
asserted delivery or, as applicable, receipt of the relevant notice (in the
case of a Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise Movement Option,
through the reports referred to at Section 5.6 (Reports)).
(d)

No Clearing Member Acknowledgement received
Where LCH.Clearnet SA does not receive Clearing Member
Acknowledgement or confirmation of valid delivery in respect of any
notice from either Clearing Member in the relevant Matched Pair on or
prior to the relevant Notice Acknowledgement Deadline, the rights and
obligations of LCH.Clearnet SA as against each relevant Clearing
Member, and vice versa, shall be construed as if no such notice had
been given.

(e)

Consequences of no Clearing Member Acknowledgement being
received
Where sub-section (d) above is applicable, the following provisions
shall apply:
(i)

Notices other than Notices of Physical Settlement and NOPS
Amendment Notices
Save in the case of a Notice of Physical Settlement or NOPS
Amendment Notices, an amount shall be payable between the
Clearing Members equal to the difference between the value of
the Matched Buyer Contract had Clearing Member
Acknowledgement been given to LCH.Clearnet SA on a timely
basis and the value of such contract in the absence of such
acknowledgement; such difference in value shall be determined
as of the earlier of the day on which notice is given by any
relevant Clearing Member that such amount is due and payable
and, in the case of a Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise
Movement Option, the eighth Transaction Business Day following
the Auction Settlement Date, no Auction Announcement Date or
Auction Cancellation Date, as applicable or otherwise the eighth
Transaction Business Day following the last day on which such
notice would validly have been delivered, by reference to the

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

53

Published on 14 April 2016

relevant Auction Settlement Amount or end of day contributed
prices, in each case if available.
(ii)

Notices of Physical Settlement and NOPS Amendment Notices
Where the relevant notice is a Notice of Physical Settlement or a
NOPS Amendment Notice, the relevant Clearing Members shall
acquire rights as against the other as though party to a bilateral
credit default swap transaction on the terms of the related
Matched Buyer Contract (including, without limitation, as to the
satisfaction of the applicable Conditions to Settlement) and the
Notice of Physical Settlement shall be deemed to have been
given in respect of such transaction. Any resulting payment shall
be due and payable two Transaction Business Days following the
giving of a notice that such amount is due and payable.

In each case, the relevant Clearing Members shall have enforcement
rights as against each other pursuant to the Contracts (Rights of Third
Parties) Act 1994 in respect of any resulting payments and deliveries;
LCH.Clearnet SA shall have no liability in respect thereof.
7.8

Failure to notify Matched Pairs
Notwithstanding Section 5.3 (Triggering of Restructuring Cleared
Transactions) and 6.5 (Notices of Physical Settlement), if LCH.Clearnet SA
does not notify the relevant Clearing Members of Restructuring Matched
Pairs created pursuant to Section 5.1 (Creation and Notification of
Restructuring Matched Pairs) on or prior to the RMP Notification Deadline or
Settlement Matched Pairs and related information specified in Section 6.2
(Creation and Notification of Settlement Matched Pairs) by the SMP
Notification Deadline, as applicable:
(a)

the relevant Clearing Members may deliver Credit Event Notices,
Notices to Exercise Movement Option, Notices of Physical Settlement
or NOPS Amendment Notices to LCH.Clearnet SA, and vice versa;

(b)

the relevant Cleared Transactions shall be subject to Physical
Settlement in accordance with their terms; and

(c)

the provisions of Sections 2.4 (Amendments to 2003 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions), 6 (Physical Settlement) and 8 (Matched Pair
Designations and Notices) shall not apply and the terms of this CDS
Clearing Supplement shall be construed accordingly.

For such purpose, Section 7 (Certain Notices to be given via DTCC) shall not
apply in respect of notices given by the affected Clearing Members and

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

54

Published on 14 April 2016

accordingly Credit Event Notices and Notices to Exercise Movement Option
shall be delivered directly (and not via the relevant DTCC Notice Facility).
7.9

Failure to notify Matching Information
If LCH.Clearnet SA notifies relevant Clearing Members of Restructuring
Matched Pairs created pursuant to Section 5.1 (Creation and Notification of
Restructuring Matched Pairs) on or prior to the RMP Notification Deadline,
but does not notify DTCC of relevant Matching Information on or prior to the
RMP Notification Deadline, then Section 7.3(a) (Credit Event Notices and
NEMOs to be given via DTCC) shall not apply in respect of notices to be
delivered by affected Clearing Members and accordingly Credit Event Notices
and Notices to Exercise Movement Option shall be delivered directly as
between Clearing Members (as designees of LCH.Clearnet SA) (and not via
the relevant DTCC Notice Facility).

7.10

Uncertain Delivery
(a)

Manual Notice permitted if Delivery of Notice in DTCC uncertain
Notwithstanding Section 7.3(a) (Credit Event Notices and NEMOs to be
given via DTCC), where such notices are permitted to be delivered by
means other than the relevant DTCC Notice Facility pursuant to this
Section 7, and a CDS Clearing Member is uncertain as to whether or
not a Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise Movement Option (as
applicable) it (or, in the case of a CCM, its CCM Client) attempted to
deliver via a DTCC Notice Facility has:
(i)

actually been delivered; or

(ii)

was delivered prior to the DTCC Failure Time,

that CDS Clearing Member shall be entitled to deliver such a notice
directly to any Clearing Member comprised in a relevant Matched Pair
(as designee of LCH.Clearnet SA) specifying that such notice is only to
be effective to the extent that the other purported notice is not effective.
(b)

Details to be provided of Uncertain Notice
If a Clearing Member delivers a manual notice pursuant to sub-section
(a) (Manual Notice permitted if Delivery of Notice in DTCC uncertain)
above, such Clearing Member shall be required to provide (together
with such notice) sufficient details of the notice attempted to be given
by way of the relevant DTCC Notice Facility so as to allow the other
Clearing Member and LCH.Clearnet SA to identify the communication
concerned.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

55

Published on 14 April 2016

(c)

DTCC Notice delivered successfully
If the first Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise Movement Option
(as applicable) to which the manual notice delivered pursuant to subsection (a) (Manual Notice permitted if Delivery of Notice in DTCC
uncertain) above relates was actually delivered successfully, any
subsequent Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise Movement Option
delivered shall be deemed not to have been delivered.

7.11

Disputes as to Notices
If any Clearing Member comprised in a Matched Pair where one such party is
acting as designee of LCH.Clearnet SA disputes the effective delivery in
accordance with the terms of the relevant Cleared Transactions of any notice
delivered directly (and not via a relevant DTCC Notice Facility) in accordance
with this Section 7 (Delivery of Notices and Fallbacks) (and for such
purposes, a dispute between the relevant Clearing Member and
LCH.Clearnet SA shall be deemed to have arisen if LCH.Clearnet SA
receives a Clearing Member Acknowledgement from one relevant Clearing
Member only in respect of any such notice as contemplated at Section 7.7(c)
(Clearing Member Acknowledgement received from one Clearing Member)):
(a)

LCH.Clearnet SA shall be entitled in accordance with the Procedures to
calculate and call for Margin with respect to each such Clearing
Member on the basis of the maximum requirement for such Clearing
Member that could result from any foreseeable outcome of such
dispute;

(b)

following final resolution of such dispute by arbitration or by litigation, as
applicable, in accordance with the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol,
subject to the provisions of Sections 8 and 9 of the Procedures, the
Clearing Members comprised in the relevant Matched Pair shall take
such actions with respect to the Cleared Transactions the subject of
such dispute as LCH.Clearnet SA determines appropriate to give effect
to any relevant binding resolution; and

(c)

without prejudice to its obligations upon final resolution of the dispute,
pending final resolution of any such dispute, LCH.Clearnet SA shall not
be obliged to take any step pursuant to the terms of the relevant
Cleared Transactions which would be required to have been taken by it
had the relevant notice been validly delivered.

Each relevant Clearing Member must promptly notify LCH.Clearnet SA of any
such disputes (in the form set out at Appendix XI hereto).

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

56

Published on 14 April 2016

8.

MATCHED PAIR DESIGNATIONS AND NOTICES

8.1

Creation of Matched Pairs
LCH.Clearnet SA will create Matched Pairs where required to do so pursuant
to Section 5.1 (Creation and Notification of Restructuring Matched Pairs) or
6.2 (Creation and Notification of Settlement Matched Pairs) using a matching
procedure that matches CDS Sellers with CDS Buyers pursuant to an
algorithm incorporating the following principles:
(a)

the procedure seeks to create Matched Pairs between the same
Clearing Member to the extent it is possible to do so before creating
Matched Pairs between different Clearing Members and, for this
purpose, in the context of CCMs, the procedure will create Matched
Pairs separately for CCMs and their CCM Clients (individually or
together, depending on whether the CCM Client is a CCM Individual
Segregated Account Client or a CCM Omnibus Segregated Account
Client, as applicable) and Clearing Member will be construed
accordingly;

(b)

the procedure seeks to minimise the number of Matched Pairs (and
accordingly, largest positions will be matched first);

(c)

each Matched Pair will, to the extent possible, have an aggregate
Restructuring Matched Pair Amount or, as applicable, Settlement
Matched Pair Delivery Amount, which is an integral multiple of Euro
1,000,000, subject to a maximum of Euro 50,000,000; and

(d)

LCH.Clearnet SA will allocate a Restructuring Matched Pair Amount or,
as applicable, Settlement Matched Pair Delivery Amount to each
Matched Pair such that:
(i)

the sum of all Restructuring Matched Pair Amounts or, as
applicable, Settlement Matched Pair Delivery Amounts, of each
CDS Buyer is equal to the aggregate Floating Rate Payer
Calculation Amounts in respect of all (A) Initial Single Name
Cleared Transactions, Restructuring Cleared Transactions
(created following the occurrence of a previous Restructuring
Credit Event), Spin-off Single Name Cleared Transactions and
Resulting Single Name Cleared Transactions or (B) Cleared
Transactions in respect of which the Fallback Settlement
Method applies to the CDS Type for such Cleared Transaction,
as applicable, to which such CDS Buyer is a party; and

(ii)

the sum of all Restructuring Matched Pair Amounts or, as
applicable, Settlement Matched Pair Delivery Amounts, of each
CDS Seller is equal to the aggregate Floating Rate Payer

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

57

Published on 14 April 2016

Calculation Amounts in respect of (A) Initial Single Name
Cleared Transactions, Restructuring Cleared Transactions
(created following the occurrence of a previous Restructuring
Credit Event), Spin-off Single Name Cleared Transactions and
Resulting Single Name Cleared Transactions or (B) Cleared
Transactions in respect of which the Fallback Settlement
Method applies to the CDS Type for such Cleared Transaction,
as applicable, to which such CDS Seller is a party.
Notwithstanding the above, if the Fallback Settlement Method applies in
relation to a Cleared Transaction and a Restructuring Credit Event, the
Restructuring Matched Pairs previously created pursuant to Section 5.1
(Creation of Restructuring Matched Pairs) and this Section 8.1 shall be
deemed to be Settlement Matched Pairs created in accordance with Section
6.2 (Creation and Notification of Settlement Matched Pairs) and
LCH.Clearnet SA shall have no obligation to create Settlement Matched Pairs
in respect of such Cleared Transaction.
8.2

Registration of new Cleared Transactions and Removal of original
Cleared Transactions
To the extent that any Cleared Transaction created pursuant to Section 5.2
(Creation of Restructuring Cleared Transactions) or Section 6.3 (Physically
Settled Cleared Transactions) is not automatically registered in accordance
with the DTCC Rules, LCH.Clearnet SA shall register such new Cleared
Transaction in the TIW in accordance with the DTCC Rules prior to 6.00 p.m.
on the date on which the RMP Notification Deadline or SMP Notification
Deadline (as applicable) falls. In respect of CCMs and CCM Clients only,
such registration by LCH.Clearnet shall also result in the automatic
registration of any amendments made to the corresponding CCM Client
Transactions.
In addition, LCH.Clearnet SA will, on behalf of the relevant Clearing Member,
send an “Exit” message to the TIW in accordance with the DTCC Rules to
terminate and remove the corresponding original Cleared Transaction(s) from
the TIW prior to 6.00 p.m. on the date on which the RMP Notification
Deadline or SMP Notification Deadline (as applicable) falls.

8.3

Matched Buyer Contracts
In respect of each Matched Buyer Contract which is the subject of a Matched
Pair, LCH.Clearnet SA, pursuant to Section 9.2(c)(iv) of the 2003 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions (amended as set out at Section 2.4 (Amendments to
2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions)), as designator, shall be deemed to
have designated Matched Seller in such Matched Pair as its designee:

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

58

Published on 14 April 2016

(a)

to receive on its behalf from, and to deliver on its behalf to, Matched
Buyer of the Matched Pair any applicable notices or certifications in
accordance with the terms of the applicable Cleared Transaction (other
than notices required to be delivered via a DTCC Notice Facility);

(b)

other than in respect of the Physical Settlement Amount relating to the
settlement of Non-DVP Obligations as referred to in Section 6.6
(Delivery of Non-DVP Obligations), to pay on behalf of LCH.Clearnet
SA any applicable Physical Settlement Amount in accordance with the
terms of the applicable Physically Settled Cleared Transaction, and to
pay to, and to receive from, Matched Buyer of the Matched Pair, in
each case, on behalf of LCH.Clearnet SA, any other amounts due and
payable (including costs and expenses of settlement due under the
applicable Matched Buyer Contract); and

(c)

to take Delivery, on behalf of LCH.Clearnet SA, of Deliverable
Obligations from Matched Buyer of the Settlement Matched Pair.

The relevant Matched Seller shall be deemed to have accepted such
designation upon notification of the relevant Matched Pair created and
notified in accordance with the provisions of this CDS Clearing Supplement.
8.4

Matched Seller Contracts
In respect of each Matched Seller Contract which is the subject of a Matched
Pair, LCH.Clearnet SA, pursuant to Section 9.2(c)(iv) of the 2003 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions (as amended pursuant to Section 2.4 (Amendments to
2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions) above), as designator, shall be
deemed to have designated Matched Buyer in such Matched Pair as its
designee:
(a)

to receive on its behalf from, and to deliver on its behalf to, Matched
Seller of the Matched Pair any applicable notices or certifications in
accordance with the terms of the applicable Cleared Transaction (other
than notices required to be delivered via a DTCC Notice Facility);

(b)

other than in respect of any Physical Settlement Amount relating to the
settlement of Non-DVP Obligations as referred to in Section 6.6
(Delivery of Non-DVP Obligations), to receive on behalf of
LCH.Clearnet SA the applicable Physical Settlement Amount in
accordance with the terms of any applicable Physically Settled Cleared
Transaction, and to pay to, and to receive from, Matched Seller of the
Matched Pair, in each case, on behalf of LCH.Clearnet SA, any other
amounts due and payable (including costs and expenses of settlement
due under the Matched Seller Contract); and

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

59

Published on 14 April 2016

(c)

to Deliver, on behalf of LCH.Clearnet SA, the relevant Deliverable
Obligations to Matched Seller of the Settlement Matched Pair.

The relevant Matched Buyer shall be deemed to have accepted such
designation upon notification of the relevant Matched Pair created and
notified in accordance with the provisions of this CDS Clearing Supplement.
8.5

Exercise of Rights
In relation to each Matched Pair:

8.6

(a)

the exercise of any rights by Matched Buyer against LCH.Clearnet SA
under a Matched Buyer Contract (other than the right to give any notice
via DTCC Notice Facility) shall be deemed to constitute the exercise of
equal and simultaneous rights by LCH.Clearnet SA against Matched
Seller under the Matched Seller Contract of the relevant Matched Pair;
and

(b)

the exercise of any rights by Matched Seller against LCH.Clearnet SA
under a Matched Seller Contract (other than a right to give notice under
a DTCC Notice Facility) shall be deemed to constitute the exercise of
equal and simultaneous rights by LCH.Clearnet SA against Matched
Buyer under the Matched Buyer Contract of the relevant Matched Pair.

Clearing Member matched with Itself
(a)

Notices
In the event that:
(i)

Matched Buyer and Matched Seller of a Matched Pair pursuant to
this Section 8 (Matched Pair Designations and Notices) is the
same Clearing Member; and

(ii)

notwithstanding Section 7.3(a) (Credit Event Notices and NEMOs
to be given via DTCC), a notice or certification is permitted to be
delivered in respect of one of the Cleared Transactions forming
part of such Matched Pair by means other than the relevant
DTCC Notice Facility pursuant to Section 7 (Delivery of Notices
and Fallbacks),

such notice shall be deemed to be given upon such Clearing Member
sending a Clearing Member Acknowledgement to LCH.Clearnet SA
pursuant to Section 7.7(a) (Duty to deliver Clearing Member
Acknowledgements) above in respect of such notice and Section 7.7(b)
(Clearing Member Acknowledgement received from both Clearing
Members) shall apply.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

60

Published on 14 April 2016

(b)

Payments and Deliveries
In the event that:
(i)

Matched Buyer and Matched Seller of a Matched Pair pursuant to
this Section 8 (Matched Pair Designations and Notices) is the
same Clearing Member; and

(ii)

such Clearing Member is required to make a payment or delivery
pursuant to the terms of one of the Cleared Transactions forming
part of such Matched Pair as designate of LCH.Clearnet SA,

such payment or delivery shall be deemed to have been made upon
such Clearing Member giving notice to LCH.Clearnet SA. in accordance
with Section 7.1 (General Rules relating to Notices) that such payment
or delivery should be deemed to have been made for the purposes of
such Cleared Transaction.
8.7

Notices
In relation to each Matched Pair:
(a)

where Matched Buyer validly delivers or serves any notice to Matched
Seller as designee of LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with the terms of
a relevant Matched Buyer Contract, such notice shall additionally be
effective as a notice given by such Matched Buyer as designee of
LCH.Clearnet SA to Matched Seller for the purposes of the relevant
Matched Seller Contract; and

(b)

where Matched Seller validly delivers or serves any notice to Matched
Buyer as designee of LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with the terms of
a relevant Matched Seller Contract, such notice shall additionally be
effective as a notice given by such Matched Seller as designee of
LCH.Clearnet SA to Matched Buyer for the purposes of the relevant
Matched Buyer Contract.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

61

Published on 14 April 2016

9.

SELF-REFERENCING TRANSACTIONS

9.1

Occurrence of Self Referencing Transaction
(a)

Duty to notify
In respect of a Single Name Cleared Transaction that is registered in
the House Account Structure of a Clearing Member, the relevant
Clearing Member shall, unless prohibited from so doing by applicable
law or its internal policies, notify LCH.Clearnet SA as soon as
reasonably practicable if:

(b)

(i)

such Clearing Member is or consolidates or amalgamates with, or
merges into, or transfers all or substantially all of its assets to, the
Reference Entity in relation to such Single Name Cleared
Transaction, or enters into any agreement in respect of any of the
foregoing;

(ii)

such Clearing Member and the Reference Entity in relation to
such Single Name Cleared Transaction are or become Affiliates;
or

(iii)

in respect of a Restructuring Cleared Transaction, such Clearing
Member is or becomes the Reference Entity in relation to such
Restructuring Cleared Transaction as a result of the occurrence
of the relevant Restructuring Credit Event.

Auction of Affected Transactions
Following receipt of any such notification, LCH.Clearnet SA will, unless
otherwise agreed in consultation with the CDS Default Management
Group and the affected Clearing Member, and with the assistance of
the CDS Default Management Group, conduct an auction process to
liquidate the relevant Single Name Cleared Transaction and enter into
an equivalent Single Name Cleared Transaction with a Clearing
Member other than the affected Clearing Member.

(c)

Alternative Action
If LCH.Clearnet SA, after consultation with the CDS Default
Management Group and the affected Clearing Member, believes that
the circumstances are such that an auction may be inappropriate,
LCH.Clearnet SA may take such other action in consultation with the
Risk Committee as it considers reasonably necessary to achieve its
primary aim in these circumstances of addressing the risks resulting
from a Clearing Member being party to a Self Referencing Transaction,
while endeavouring, as far as is reasonably practicable in the
circumstances without prejudicing the achievement of the primary aim,

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

62

Published on 14 April 2016

to avoid materially and adversely affecting the relevant Clearing
Member.
(d)

Compression of Affected Transactions prior to Auction
Prior to determining the Single Name Cleared Transactions to be
subject to any auction pursuant to paragraph (b) above, where the
affected Clearing Member acts as CDS Buyer and CDS Seller in
respect of fungible Single Name Cleared Transactions, LCH.Clearnet
SA shall, in consultation with the CDS Default Management Committee
as to the transaction sizes of resulting Single Name Cleared
Transactions to be auctioned, compress such Single Name Cleared
Transactions up to the extent that, following such compression, Single
Name Cleared Transactions representing in aggregate the Open
Position of the affected Clearing Member in respect of such fungible
Single Name Cleared Transactions are recognised.
For these purposes, LCH.Clearnet SA will provide the affected Clearing
Member with a report detailing the Single Name Cleared Transactions
to be subject to such compression.
The affected Clearing Member will be deemed to have submitted a
request to LCH.Clearnet SA prior to 5.00 p.m. on the day on which
LCH.Clearnet SA carries out the compression for ad hoc compression
of such Single Name Cleared Transactions in accordance with Section
5 of the Procedures and such compression shall be carried out in
accordance with Section 5 of the Procedures on the basis of such
deemed request for ad hoc compression.

(e)

Auction Terms
LCH.Clearnet SA shall determine the timing and other particular
characteristics of each such auction in consultation with the CDS
Default Management Committee, including determining the size of the
bid/offer spread and/or of the Single Name Cleared Transactions to be
auctioned, whether one or more such auctions are to be held and the
timing and structure of such auctions (including the frequency at which
firm bid and firm offer quotations will be requested and the transaction
size (that is, the Floating Rate Payer Calculation Amount)).
Clearing Members (excluding the affected Clearing Member) may be
requested, and will not be required, to submit actionable quotations in
such an auction.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

63

Published on 14 April 2016

(f)

Creation of New Transactions and Termination of Existing
Transactions
LCH.Clearnet SA will enter into Single Name Cleared Transactions with
Clearing Members, other than the affected Clearing Member, in the
amount and at the prices determined pursuant to such auction.
At the time of entering into such Single Name Cleared Transactions,
the corresponding Single Name Cleared Transactions of the affected
Clearing Member shall be terminated by reference to the prices at
which LCH.Clearnet SA enters into such new Single Name Cleared
Transactions.
The affected Clearing Member, LCH.Clearnet SA and the other
Clearing Members, as applicable, shall submit such information as is
required in accordance with the DTCC Rules so as to reflect the terms
of any reduction to, termination of or entry into of any Single Name
Cleared Transaction as a result of any such auction(s).

(g)

Costs of LCH.Clearnet SA
The affected Clearing Member will bear the cost of the associated
bid/offer spread and any reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses
of LCH.Clearnet SA in connection with such auction(s) and its entering
into such new Single Name Cleared Transactions.

(h)

LCH.Clearnet SA to determine Amounts Owed and Payable
Amounts owed by the affected Clearing Member to, or receivable by it
from, LCH.Clearnet SA in connection with any such auction shall be
determined by LCH.Clearnet SA.
In addition, any amounts payable (and the dates of settlement with
respect thereto) relating to any Single Name Cleared Transactions
created, reduced or terminated pursuant to any such auction shall be
determined by LCH.Clearnet SA.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

64

Published on 14 April 2016

9.2

Occurrence of Self Referencing Transactions in respect of Clients
(a)

Notification
In respect of a Single Name Cleared Transaction registered in the
Client Account Structure of a Clearing Member, the relevant Clearing
Member shall, unless prohibited from so doing by applicable law or its
internal policies, notify LCH.Clearnet SA as soon as reasonably
practicable if:
(i)

such Clearing Member is or consolidates or amalgamates with, or
merges into, or transfers all or substantially all of its assets to, the
Reference Entity in relation to such Single Name Cleared
Transaction, or enters into any agreement in respect of any of the
foregoing;

(ii)

such Clearing Member and the Reference Entity in relation to
such Single Name Cleared Transaction are or become Affiliates;
or

(iii)

in respect of a Restructuring Cleared Transaction, such Clearing
Member is or becomes the Reference Entity in relation to such
Restructuring Cleared Transaction as a result of the occurrence
of the relevant Restructuring Credit Event;

or it receives a notice from the relevant Client that:
(i)

the Client is or has consolidated or amalgamated with, or merged
into, or has transferred all or substantially all of its assets to, the
Reference Entity in relation to such Single Name Cleared
Transaction or entered into any agreement in respect of any of
the foregoing;

(ii)

the Client and the Reference Entity in relation to such Single
Name Cleared Transaction are or have become Affiliates; or

(iii)

in respect of a Restructuring Cleared Transaction, the Client is or
has become the Reference Entity in relation to such Restructuring
Cleared Transaction as a result of the occurrence of the relevant
Restructuring Credit Event.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

65

Published on 14 April 2016

(b)

Transfer and Auction Process
Following the giving of any such notification or occurrence of a Self
Referencing Transaction due to a Transfer under Title V Chapter 3,
Title VI Chapter 3 or article 4.3 of the Default Management Process,
(i)

if the Self Referencing Transaction is a Clearing Member Self
Referencing Transaction, the relevant Client may request the
transfer of such Self Referencing Transaction to a Receiving
Clearing Member which is not, and none of its Affiliates are, the
Reference Entity of the affected Single Name Cleared
Transaction, in accordance with Title V Chapter 3 or Title VI
Chapter 3 as applicable of the CDS Clearing Rule Book;

(ii)

if such transfer has not been completed in a reasonable
timeframe as determined by LCH.Clearnet SA in consultation with
the Carrying Clearing Member, or the Self Referencing
Transaction is a Client Self Referencing Transaction,
LCH.Clearnet SA will, unless otherwise agreed in consultation
with the CDS Default Management Group and the relevant
Clearing Member, conduct an auction process in consultation with
the CDS Default Management Group and the relevant Clearing
Member, to liquidate the relevant Single Name Cleared
Transaction and enter into an equivalent Single Name Cleared
Transaction with another Clearing Member; and

(iii)

the provisions of Section 9.1. (Occurrence of Self Referencing
Transaction) will apply mutatis mutandis, provided that:
(A)

Section 9.1(a) (Duty to Notify) and 9.1(b) (Auction of
Affected Transactions) shall not apply;

(B)

Section 9.1(d) (Compression of Affected Transactions prior
to Auction) is amended by deleting the words "to paragraph
(b) above" and replacing them with the words "as a result of
Section 9.2 (Occurrence of Self Referencing Transactions
in respect of Clients)";

(C)

Section 9.1(d) (Compression of Affected Transactions prior
to Auction) is amended in the case of CCM Clients only by
inserting the words "that have a corresponding CCM Client
Transaction with the affected CCM Client" immediately after
the words "in respect of fungible Single Name Cleared
Transactions";

(D)

Section 9.1(e) (Auction Terms) is amended by inserting the
words “, where the relevant Self Referencing Transaction is

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

66

Published on 14 April 2016

a Clearing Member Self Referencing Transaction only,”
immediately after the word “excluding” in the final
paragraph thereof;

(c)

(E)

Section 9.1(f) (Creation of New Transactions and
Termination of Existing Transactions) is amended by
inserting the words "if the relevant Self Referencing
Transaction is a Clearing Member Self Referencing
Transaction" immediately after the words "other than the
affected Clearing Member" in the first paragraph thereof;
and

(F)

Each reference to "affected Clearing Member" in Section
9.1 (Occurrence of Self Referencing Transaction) is deleted
and replaced with a reference to "relevant Clearing
Member".

Costs of LCH.Clearnet SA
The cost of the associated bid/offer spread and any reasonable out-ofpocket costs and expenses of LCH.Clearnet SA in connection with
such auction(s) or any alternative action shall be allocated to the CCM
Client Collateral Account or the FCM Client Collateral Account as
applicable.

10.

MANDATORY PROVISIONS FOR CCM CLIENT TRANSACTIONS
In Appendix XIII, certain provisions are set-out (the "Mandatory Provisions")
for incorporation into a CCM Client Transaction between a CCM and its CCM
Client that corresponds to a CCM Client Cleared Transaction registered in
the CCM Client Trade Account in the name of such CCM for such CCM
Client. The CDS Clearing Supplement and these Mandatory Provisions have
been drafted so as to complement each other.
LCH.Clearnet SA shall not be responsible for any loss suffered or expense
incurred by a CCM or any CCM Client as a result of the inclusion or noninclusion of the Mandatory Provisions in the CCM Client Transaction
Documents.

11.

AMENDMENTS
LCH.Clearnet SA may amend the provisions of this CDS Clearing
Supplement (including, without limitation, the Mandatory Provisions) from
time to time so as to comply with any legal or regulatory developments or any
recommendations adopted by the industry in respect of CDS or Cleared
Transactions or CCM Client Transactions, as applicable, or so as to reflect
any technological advancements, in each case in accordance with the

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

67

Published on 14 April 2016

provisions of Section 1.2.2 (Modification) of Chapter 2 (General Provisions)
of the CDS Clearing Rule Book.
12.

FORMS OF NOTICES
A form of Credit Event Notice, Notice to Exercise Movement Option, Notice of
Physical Settlement, NOPS Amendment Notice, notice to exercise alternative
delivery procedure pursuant to Section 6.7 (Alternative Delivery Procedure),
notice to fallback to Cash Settlement in respect of Non-Deliverable
Obligations pursuant to Section 6.12 (Fallback to Cash Settlement in respect
of Non-Deliverable Obligations), Physical Settlement Confirmation, No
Physical Settlement Confirmation, notice of Clearing Member
Communications Failure Event and where no longer subject to a Clearing
Member Communications Failure Event, in each case pursuant to Section
7.6 (Clearing Member Communications Failure Event), notice of dispute
relating to any Matched Pair as contemplated by Section 7 (Dispute as to
Notices) and notice relating to Self-Referencing Transactions as
contemplated by Section 9 (Self-Referencing Transactions) is set out in
Appendix I, II, III, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII, IX, X, XI and XII respectively hereto.
Any of the above referenced notices shall be delivered in substantially the
form appended hereto, provided, for the avoidance of doubt, that such
notices may refer to multiple transactions and may have certain firm-specific
variations.
For the avoidance of doubt, the above referenced notices shall be governed
by and construed in accordance with English law.

13.

EXCLUSION OF LIABILITY
Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 1.2.10.3 of the CDS Clearing
Rule Book:
(a)

No liability for Failure of Designee to perform in respect of
Matched Pair
Without prejudice to its obligations under or in respect of a Cleared
Transaction, LCH.Clearnet SA shall not be liable for any loss or cost
arising out of any failure of any Clearing Member comprised in a
Matched Pair to perform its obligations as designee of LCH.Clearnet
SA against a related Matched Buyer or Matched Seller, as applicable.

(b)

No liability for Fault of Third Party or Force Majeure
LCH.Clearnet SA shall have no liability to any person where
Restructuring Cleared Transactions are not or are improperly created,
Restructuring Cleared Transactions are not or are improperly
terminated or the Movement Option process is not or is improperly

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

68

Published on 14 April 2016

implemented, in each case for the purposes of the DTCC Rules,
because of a third party’s fault or a force majeure event. In particular,
LCH.Clearnet SA shall not incur any liability arising as a result of any
action or omission of DTCC.
(c)

No Obligation to verify Notices received
LCH.Clearnet SA shall have no responsibility to verify the contents of
any notice received by it from any Clearing Member under the terms of
any Cleared Transaction.

14.

DISPUTE RESOLUTION
For the avoidance of doubt, all Disputes shall be referred to and finally
resolved by arbitration or by litigation, as applicable, in accordance with the
CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol, subject to the provisions of Sections 8 and
9 of the Procedures.

15.

GOVERNING LAW
For the avoidance of doubt, the governing law applicable to this CDS
Clearing Supplement (excluding the Mandatory Provisions to the extent that
such terms are incorporated by reference in the CCM Client Transaction
Documents entered into between a CCM and its CCM Client in respect of a
CCM Client Transaction), the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions and
any Cleared Transactions (and any related definitions or Clearing Notices
issued in respect of the CDS Clearing Supplement, the 2003 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions or any Cleared Transactions) and any non-contractual
obligations arising out of, relating to or having any connection with them shall
be as set out in Section 1.2.14 (Governing Law) of the CDS Clearing Rule
Book.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

69

Published on 14 April 2016

APPENDIX I: FORM OF CREDIT EVENT NOTICE
To: [Restructuring Matched Pair Counterparty Address and Contact Information]
[To/Copy to:]
LCH.Clearnet SA
18, rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris
France
[Contact details]

CREDIT EVENT NOTICE:
Credit Derivative Transaction Details: As set out in the Schedule hereto1.
Reference is made to the Credit Derivative Transaction[s] described in the Schedule
hereto (the Transaction[s]). Capitalised terms used and not otherwise defined in
this letter shall have the meanings given them in the confirmation of the relevant
Transaction.
This letter is our Credit Event Notice to you that a [insert type] Credit Event occurred
with respect to [insert name of Reference Entity] on or about [insert date], when
[describe Credit Event].
Nothing in this letter shall be construed of a waiver of any rights we may have with
respect to the Transaction.
Sincerely

[Clearing Member]

________________________
Name:
Title:

1

A single Credit Event Notice may be submitted for multiple trades in respect of the same Counterparty

SCHEDULE
Credit Derivative Transaction Details
[Clearing
Member]
acting as
Seller/Buyer
[Seller]
[Buyer]

2

Restructuring Trade ID
Matched Pair
ID
[ ]

[ ]

Reference Trade Date
Entity

Effective
Date

Exercise
Amount2

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

Where different to the outstanding Floating Rate Payer Calculation Amount

APPENDIX II: FORM OF NOTICE TO EXERCISE MOVEMENT OPTION
To: [Restructuring Matched Pair Counterparty Address and Contact Information]
[To/Copy to:]
LCH.Clearnet SA
18, rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris
France
[Contact details]
Dear Sir/Madam
Notice to Exercise Movement Option
Credit Derivative Transaction Details: As set out in the Schedule hereto3.
Reference is made to: (a) the Credit Derivative Transaction[s] described in the
Schedule hereto (the Transaction[s]) between [
], as Seller, and [
], as
Buyer; (b) the Credit Event Notice dated insert date], previously delivered to you on
[insert date]; and (c) the occurrence of the No Auction Announcement Date on [insert
date] pursuant to Section 12.12(b) of the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions,
as supplemented by the 2009 ISDA Credit Derivatives Determinations Committees,
Auction Settlement and Restructuring Supplement to the 2003 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions (published on July 14, 2009) (the Definitions).
This letter constitutes a Notice to Exercise Movement Option. Any capitalised term
not otherwise defined in this letter will have the meaning, if any, assigned to such
term in the confirmation of the relevant Transaction or, if no meaning is specified
therein, in the Definitions.
We hereby exercise the Movement Option, confirm that each Transaction will be
settled in accordance with the relevant Credit Derivatives Auction Settlement Terms
specified in the column entitled "Auction Settlement Terms" corresponding to such
Transaction in the Schedule hereto and require performance by you in accordance
therewith.
Yours faithfully,
[Matched Buyer/Matched Seller]
________________________
Name:
Title:
3

A single Notice to Exercise Movement Option may be submitted for multiple trades in respect of the same
Counterparty

SCHEDULE
Credit Derivative Transaction Details
Restructuring Trade ID
Matched Pair
ID

Reference
Entity

Trade Date

Effective
Date

Auction
Settlement
Terms

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[]

[]

APPENDIX III: FORM OF NOTICE OF PHYSICAL SETTLEMENT
To: Settlement Matched Pair Matched Seller Address and Contact Information
Copy to:
LCH.Clearnet SA
18, rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris
France
[Contact details]
Notice of Physical Settlement
Credit Derivative Transaction Details: As set out in the Schedule hereto4.
Reference is made to: (a) the Credit Derivative Transaction[s] described in the
Schedule hereto (the Transaction[s]) between [
], as Seller, and [
], as
Buyer. Reference is also made to the Credit Event Notice [and Notice of Publicly
Available Information] dated [insert date], previously delivered to you on [insert date].
This letter constitutes a Notice of Physical Settlement. Any capitalised term not
otherwise defined in this letter will have the meaning, if any, assigned to such term in
the confirmation of the relevant Transaction (the Relevant Confirmation) or, if no
meaning is specified therein, in the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions, as
supplemented by the 2009 ISDA Credit Derivatives Determinations Committees,
Auction Settlement and Restructuring Supplement to the 2003 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions (published on July 14, 2009) (the Definitions).
We hereby confirm that we will settle the Transaction[s] and require performance by
you in accordance with the provisions of the Relevant Confirmation and the
Definitions relating to Physical Settlement. Subject to the terms of the relevant
Transaction, we will Deliver to you on or before the Physical Settlement Date, an
amount of the Deliverable Obligation(s) described in the column entitled "Deliverable
Obligation(s)" in the Schedule hereto, corresponding to such Transaction:
[Further, in respect of each Transaction[s] we identify those Enabling Obligation(s)
described in the column entitled "Enabling Obligation(s)" in the Schedule hereto,
corresponding to such Transaction:]
Yours faithfully,
[Matched Buyer]

4

A single Notice of Physical Settlement may be submitted for multiple trades in respect of the same Counterparty

________________________
Name:
Title:

SCHEDULE
Credit Derivative Transaction Details
Settlement
Matched Pair ID

Trade ID

Reference Entity Trade Date

Effective Date

Deliverable
Obligation(s)5

[ ]

[]

[ ]

[ ]

[Currency][Due
[ ]
and
Payable
Amount]][]

[ ]

Enabling
Obligation(s)6]

5

describe the Deliverable Obligation(s) to be Delivered, including the currency and outstanding principal balance or Due and Payable Amount for each such Deliverable
Obligation and, if available and applicable, the CUSIP or ISIN number (or, if such identifying number is not available, the rate and tenor of the Deliverable Obligation)
6

describe each such Enabling Obligation, including the CUSIP or ISIN number, if available and applicable (or, if such identifying number is not available, the rate and tenor), of
such Enabling Obligation, or any other information necessary to establish that such obligation is an Enabling Obligation.

APPENDIX IV: FORM OF NOPS AMENDMENT NOTICE
To: Settlement Matched Pair Matched Seller Address and Contact Information
Copy to:
LCH.Clearnet SA
18, rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris
France
[Contact details]
Settlement Matched Pair ID: []
Trade ID: []
NOPS Amendment Notice
Credit Derivative Transaction Details: [Trade Date], [Effective Date], [Reference
Entity]
Reference is made to the Credit Derivative Transaction described above (the
Transaction) between [
], as Seller, and [
], as Buyer.
Reference is also made to the Notice of Physical Settlement] NOPS Amendment
Notice] dated [insert date], previously delivered to you on [insert date] dated [insert
date].
This letter constitutes a NOPS Amendment Notice. Any capitalised term not
otherwise defined in this letter will have the meaning, if any, assigned to such term in
the Confirmation of the Transaction or, if no meaning is specified therein, in the CDS
Clearing Supplement.
We hereby notify you that we are replacing the following Deliverable Obligation(s)
specified in the Notice of Physical Settlement] NOPS Amendment Notice] specified
above with the following Replacement Deliverable Obligation(s):
[describe the Deliverable Obligation(s) to be replaced, including the Replaced
Deliverable Obligation Amount for each such Deliverable Obligation and, if available
and applicable, the CUSIP or ISIN number (or, if such identifying number is not
available, the rate and tenor of the Deliverable Obligation) and the Replacement
Deliverable Obligation(s) for each Replaced Deliverable Obligation Amount so
specified and, if available and applicable, the CUSIP or ISIN number (or, if such
identifying number is not available, the rate and tenor of the Replacement
Deliverable Obligation)].

Yours faithfully,

[Matched Buyer]

________________________
Name:
Title:

APPENDIX V: FORM OF NOTICE TO EXERCISE ALTERNATIVE DELIVERY
PROCEDURE PURSUANT TO SECTION 6.7 (ALTERNATIVE DELIVERY
PROCEDURE)
To:
LCH.Clearnet SA
18, rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris
France
[Contact details]
[date]
Dear Sir/Madam
Notice to Exercise Alternative Delivery Procedure7
Reference is made to: the Settlement Matched Pairs described in the Schedule
hereto, being the Settlement Matched Pairs to which this notice relates and Section
6.7 (Alternative Delivery Procedure) of the CDS Clearing Supplement. Defined
terms shall have the meanings assigned to them in the CDS Clearing Supplement,
unless otherwise defined herein.
The Settlement Matched Pair Delivery Amount relating to each Settlement Matched
Pair is that amount specified in the column entitled "Settlement Matched Pair
Delivery Amount" in the Schedule hereto, corresponding to such Settlement Matched
Pair.
In respect of each Settlement Matched Pair and in accordance with Section 6.7
(Alternative Delivery Procedure) we hereby elect to exercise our rights against and
perform obligations to you in accordance with the alternative delivery procedure in
relation to such percentage and amount of the Settlement Matched Pair Delivery
Amount as set out in the column entitled "Percentage and Amount of Settlement
Matched Pair Delivery Amount" in the Schedule hereto corresponding to such
Settlement Matched Pair.
This notice may be executed in any number of counterparts which together shall
constitute one notice.
By countersigning this notice, you are deemed to have given your consent to the
above in satisfaction of the requirement to obtain your consent contained in Section
6.7 (Alternative Delivery Procedure) of the CDS Clearing Supplement.

7

A single Notice to Exercise Alternative Delivery Procedure may be submitted for multiple trades in respect of
the same Counterparty

This notice (and any dispute, controversy, proceedings or claim of whatever nature
arising out of or in any way relating to this agreement or its formation) shall be
governed by and construed in accordance with English law.
Yours faithfully,
[Matched Buyer/ Matched Seller]

________________________
Name:
Title:

Countersigned by LCH.Clearnet SA

________________________
Name:
Title:

SCHEDULE
Credit Derivative Transaction Details
Settlement
Matched Pair ID

Trade ID

Reference
Entity

Trade Date

Effective Date

Settlement
Matched Pair
Delivery
Amount

Percentage and
amount of
Settlement
Matched Pair
Delivery
Amount

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

APPENDIX VI: FORM OF NOTICE OF FALLBACK TO CASH SETTLEMENT OF
NON-DELIVERABLE OBLIGATIONS PURSUANT TO SECTION 6.12 (FALLBACK
TO CASH SETTLEMENT IN RESPECT OF NON-DELIVERABLE OBLIGATIONS)
To: Settlement Matched Pair Matched Seller Address and Contact Information
To:
LCH.Clearnet SA
18, rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris
France
[Contact details]
Settlement Matched Pair ID: []
Trade ID: []
Dear Sir/Madam
Notice of fallback to Cash Settlement in respect of Non-Deliverable Obligations
pursuant to Section 6.12 (Fallback to Cash Settlement in respect of NonDeliverable Obligations) of the CDS Clearing Supplement
Reference is made to Section 6.12 (Fallback to Cash Settlement in respect of NonDeliverable Obligations) of the CDS Clearing Supplement and [insert details of the
relevant Settlement Matched Pair(s)], being the Settlement Matched Pair[s] to which
this notice relates and to the [Notice of Physical Settlement][NOPS Amendment
Notice] previously delivered to you on [insert date] dated [insert date]. Defined terms
shall have the meanings assigned to them in the CDS Clearing Supplement, unless
otherwise defined herein.
In accordance with Section 6.12 (Fallback to Cash Settlement in respect of NonDeliverable Obligations) of the CDS Clearing Supplement we hereby notify you we
are not permitted to Deliver the Deliverable Obligations specified below (such
Deliverable Obligations, the Non-Deliverable Obligations) as specified in the
[Notice of Physical Settlement][NOPS Amendment Notice] specified above for the
following reasons:
[Insert details of the relevant Non-Deliverable Obligations and reasonable detail of
the relevant circumstances, as described paragraphs (a)(i) and (a)(ii) of Section 6.12
of the CDS Clearing Supplement].
This notice (and any dispute, controversy, proceedings or claim of whatever nature
arising out of or in any way relating to this agreement or its formation) shall be
governed by and construed in accordance with English law.
Yours faithfully,

[Matched Buyer]

________________________
Name:
Title:

APPENDIX VII: FORM OF PHYSICAL SETTLEMENT CONFIRMATION AS
CONTEMPLATED BY SECTION 6.19 (MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
RELATING TO PHYSICAL SETTLEMENT)
To:
LCH.Clearnet SA
18, rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris
France
[Contact details]
[date]
Dear Sir/Madam
Physical Settlement Confirmation
Reference is made to Section 6.19(b) (Notification of Completion of Physical
Settlement) of the CDS Clearing Supplement and the Settlement Matched Pair[s]
described in the Schedule hereto, being the Settlement Matched Pair[s] to which this
notice relates. Defined terms shall have the meanings assigned to them in the CDS
Clearing Supplement, unless otherwise defined herein.
In accordance with Section 6.19(b) (Notification of Completion of Physical
Settlement) of the CDS Clearing Supplement, we hereby notify you that we have
completed Physical Settlement with respect to such Settlement Matched Pair[s].
This notice is delivered in satisfaction of the requirement in Section 6.19(b)
(Notification of Completion of Physical Settlement) of the CDS Clearing Supplement
to inform you of such completion.
This notice (and any dispute, controversy, proceedings or claim of whatever nature
arising out of or in any way relating to this agreement or its formation) shall be
governed by and construed in accordance with English law.
Yours faithfully,
[Matched Buyer]/[Matched Seller]

________________________
Name:
Title:

SCHEDULE
Settlement Matched Pair Details
Settlement
Matched Pair ID

Trade ID

Reference
Entity

Trade Date

Effective Date

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

APPENDIX VIII: FORM OF NO PHYSICAL SETTLEMENT CONFIRMATION AS
CONTEMPLATED BY SECTION 6.19 (MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
RELATING TO PHYSICAL SETTLEMENT)
To:
LCH.Clearnet SA
18, rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris
France
[Contact details]
[date]
Settlement Matched Pair ID: []
Trade ID: []
Dear Sir/Madam
No Physical Settlement Confirmation
Reference is made to Section 6.19(c) (Notification that Physical Settlement will not
occur) of the CDS Clearing Supplement and the Settlement Matched Pair[s]
described in the Schedule hereto, being the Settlement Matched Pair[s] to which this
notice relates. Defined terms shall have the meanings assigned to them in the CDS
Clearing Supplement, unless otherwise defined herein.
In accordance with Section 6.19(c) (Notification that Physical Settlement will not
occur) of the CDS Clearing Supplement, we hereby notify you that no Notice of
Physical Settlement has been delivered within the relevant time period permitted for
such delivery in accordance with the terms of the relevant Physically Settled Cleared
Transactions and, accordingly, that Physical Settlement will not, under the terms of
such Physically Settled Cleared Transactions, occur.
This notice is delivered in satisfaction of the requirement in Section 6.19(c)
(Notification that Physical Settlement will not occur) of the CDS Clearing Supplement
to inform you of such completion.
This notice (and any dispute, controversy, proceedings or claim of whatever nature
arising out of or in any way relating to this agreement or its formation) shall be
governed by and construed in accordance with English law.
Yours faithfully,
[Matched Buyer]/[Matched Seller]

________________________

Name:
:
Title:

SCHEDULE
Settlement Matched Pair Details
Settlement
Matched Pair ID

Trade ID

Reference
Entity

Trade Date

Effective Date

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

APPENDIX IX: FORM OF NOTICE OF CLEARING MEMBER COMMUNICATIONS
FAILURE EVENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 7.6 (CLEARING MEMBER
COMMUNICATIONS FAILURE EVENT)
To:
LCH.Clearnet SA
18, rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris
France
[Contact details]
[date]
Dear Sir/Madam
Notice certifying occurrence of a Clearing Member Communications Failure
Event
Reference is made to Section 7.6(b) (Clearing Member to notify LCH.Clearnet SA of
Occurrence of Clearing Member Communications Failure Event) of the CDS
Clearing Supplement. Defined terms shall have the meanings assigned to them in
the CDS Clearing Supplement, unless otherwise defined herein.
In accordance with Section 7.6(b) (Clearing Member to notify LCH.Clearnet SA of
Occurrence of Clearing Member Communications Failure Event) of the CDS
Clearing Supplement, notice is hereby given that we are affected by a Clearing
Member Communications Failure Event [insert details of such failure].
This notice (and any dispute, controversy, proceedings or claim of whatever nature
arising out of or in any way relating to this agreement or its formation) shall be
governed by and construed in accordance with English law.
Yours faithfully,
[Clearing Member]

________________________
Name:
Title:
[Signed by a senior officer (such as a managing director or equivalent) on behalf of
the Clearing Member]

APPENDIX X: FORM OF NOTICE FOR CEASING TO BE SUBJECT TO A
CLEARING MEMBER COMMUNICATIONS FAILURE EVENT PURSUANT TO
SECTION 7.6 (CLEARING MEMBER COMMUNICATIONS FAILURE EVENT)
To:
LCH.Clearnet SA
18, rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris
France
[Contact details]
[date]
Dear Sir/Madam
Notice that a Clearing Member is no longer subject to Clearing Member
Communications Failure Event
Reference is made to Section 7.6(d) (Notification of Resolution of Clearing Member
Communications Failure Event) of the CDS Clearing Supplement and the notice
certifying the occurrence of a Clearing Member Communications Failure Event
delivered by us to LCH.Clearnet SA on [] (the Notice of Clearing Member
Communications Failure Event). Defined terms shall have the meanings assigned
to them in the CDS Clearing Supplement, unless otherwise defined herein.
In accordance with Section 7.6(d) (Notification of Resolution of Clearing Member
Communications Failure Event) of the CDS Clearing Supplement, notice is hereby
given that we are no longer subject to the relevant Clearing Member
Communications Failure Event described in the Notice of Clearing Member
Communications Failure Event.
This notice (and any dispute, controversy, proceedings or claim of whatever nature
arising out of or in any way relating to this agreement or its formation) shall be
governed by and construed in accordance with English law.
Yours faithfully,
[Clearing Member]

________________________
Name:
Title:

APPENDIX XI: FORM OF NOTICE OF DISPUTE RELATING TO ANY MATCHED
PAIR
To:
LCH.Clearnet SA
18, rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris
France
[Contact details]
[date]
[Restructuring][Settlement] Matched Pair ID: []
Trade ID: []

Dear Sir/Madam
Notice of dispute relating to [insert details of the relevant Matched Pairs
subject to a dispute]
Reference is made to Section 7.11 (Disputes as to Notices) of the CDS Clearing
Supplement. Defined terms shall have the meanings assigned to them in the CDS
Clearing Supplement, unless otherwise defined herein.
In accordance with Section 7.11 (Disputes as to Notices) of the CDS Clearing
Supplement, notice is hereby given of the following dispute(s):
[insert details of Matched Pair(s) affected and the relevant dispute].
This notice (and any dispute, controversy, proceedings or claim of whatever nature
arising out of or in any way relating to this agreement or its formation) shall be
governed by and construed in accordance with English law.
Yours faithfully,
[Matched Buyer]/[Matched Seller]

________________________
Name:
Title:

APPENDIX XII: FORM OF NOTICE RELATING TO SELF-REFERENCING
TRANSACTIONS
To:
LCH.Clearnet SA
18, rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris
France
[Contact details]
[date]
Dear Sir/Madam
Notice relating to Self-Referencing Transactions
Credit Derivative Transaction Details: As set out in the Schedule hereto8.
Reference is made to the Credit Derivative Transaction[s] described in the Schedule
hereto (the Transaction[s]) between [], as Seller and [], as Buyer and to Section
9.1(a) (Duty to notify) of the CDS Clearing Supplement. Defined terms shall have
the meanings assigned to them in the CDS Clearing Supplement, unless otherwise
defined herein.
In accordance with Section 9.1(a) (Duty to notify) of the CDS Clearing Supplement,
notice is hereby given of the following: [insert details of one or more of the relevant
events, as set out in paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) of Section 9.1(a) (Duty to notify) of
the CDS Clearing Supplement].
This notice (and any dispute, controversy, proceedings or claim of whatever nature
arising out of or in any way relating to this agreement or its formation) shall be
governed by and construed in accordance with English law.
Yours faithfully,
[Clearing Member]

________________________
Name:
Title:

8

A single Credit Event Notice may be submitted for multiple trades in respect of the same Counterparty

SCHEDULE
Credit Derivative Transaction Details
[Restructuring]
Matched Pair
ID

Trade ID

Reference
Entity

Trade Date

Effective Date

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

APPENDIX XIII: CCM CLIENT TRANSACTION REQUIREMENTS
The following provisions (the "Mandatory Provisions") are to be incorporated into a
CCM Client Transaction between a CCM and its CCM Client that corresponds to a
CCM Client Cleared Transaction registered in the CCM Client Trade Account in the
name of such CCM for such CCM Client. The terms of the corresponding CCM
Client Cleared Transaction will be governed by the CDS Clearing Supplement. The
CDS Clearing Supplement and these Mandatory Provisions have been drafted so as
to complement each other.
LCH.Clearnet SA shall not be responsible for any loss suffered or expense incurred
by a CCM or any CCM Client as a result of the inclusion in the CCM Client
Transaction Documents of the requirements set-out in this Appendix XIII.
The Mandatory Provisions, when they are incorporated into any CCM Client
Transaction Documents, shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the
governing law applicable to such CCM Client Transaction Documents of which they
form part, or if different and applicable, in accordance with such CCM Client
Transaction Documents, the governing law applicable to transactions entered into
under such CCM Client Transaction Documents. The Mandatory Provisions shall be
subject to such dispute resolution mechanisms and procedures and such courts or
other forum for hearing disputes as are applicable in respect of such CCM Client
Transaction Documents of which they form part. Each CCM and its CCM Client to
which the Mandatory Provisions apply will waive any right to object to any such
choice of law or proceedings on the basis of forum non conveniens, that the
governing law or forum is not specified on the face of this document or otherwise.
In this Appendix XIII:
"CCM Client Buyer" means a CCM Client that is party to a CCM Client Transaction
as protection buyer;
"CCM Client Seller" means a CCM Client that is party to a CCM Client Transaction
as protection seller;
"CCM Buyer/Matched Seller" means a CCM that is party to a CCM Client
Transaction as protection buyer and to the corresponding CCM Client Cleared
Transaction as protection seller; and
"CCM Seller/Matched Buyer" means a CCM that is party to a CCM Client
Transaction as protection seller and to the corresponding CCM Client Cleared
Transaction as protection buyer.
1.

Defined Terms
Terms used in the Mandatory Provisions and not otherwise defined herein or
in the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions shall have the meanings
given to them in the CDS Clearing Supplement.

2.

Terms of CCM Client Transactions

2.1

2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions
The definitions and provisions contained in the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association
as supplemented by the 2009 ISDA Credit Derivatives Determinations
Committees, Auction Settlement and Restructuring Supplement to the 2003
ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions (the "2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions"), are incorporated into each CCM Client Transaction.

2.2

Single Name CCM Client Transactions - Reference Obligation
With effect from the date on which the CCM Client Cleared Transaction
corresponding to a Single Name CCM Client Transaction is registered in the
TIW, such Single Name CCM Client Transaction shall be deemed to
reference the CDSClear Preferred Reference Obligation in respect of the
relevant Reference Entity.

2.3

Single Name CCM Client Transactions - Updating Physical Settlement Matrix
With effect from the date on which the CCM Client Cleared Transaction
corresponding to a Single Name CCM Client Transaction is registered in the
TIW, such Single Name CCM Client Transaction shall be deemed to
reference the Relevant Physical Settlement Matrix.
With effect from the close of business on any Matrix Re-versioning Date, any
Single Name CCM Client Transaction referencing the Existing Matrix will be
deemed to have been amended so as to reference the Revised Matrix.

2.4

Index Client CCM Transactions - Updating Eligible Index Versions
Upon the occurrence of a DTCC Re-versioning Date, any Index CCM Client
Transaction shall be automatically amended so as to reference the portfolio
of Reference Entities specified in the revised version of the index published
by the Index Publisher and referenced in the TIW with effect from such DTCC
Re-versioning Date.

2.5

Initial Payment Date
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions, if the Initial Payment Date specified in the CCM Client
Transaction Documents in respect of any CCM Client Transaction is a date
falling after the Clearing Day on which the Cleared Transactions related to
such CCM Client Transaction are created by novation pursuant to Title III
(Clearing Operations) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, the Initial Payment
Date in respect of such CCM Client Transaction shall be deemed to be the
Transaction Business Day immediately following the Clearing Day on which

the Cleared Transactions relating to such CCM Client Transaction are
created.
2.6

2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions Protocol
(a)

If the Protocol Effectiveness Condition (as defined in the 2014 ISDA
Credit Derivatives Definitions Protocol published by ISDA on 21 August
2014 and supplemented by the Supplement thereto published by ISDA
on 15 September 2014 and as further supplemented from time to time
(the "2014 Protocol")) is satisfied, then from and including the
Implementation Date (as defined in the 2014 Protocol) the amendments
set forth in Part 1 (Global Amendments) of Schedule 1 (Amendments to
Protocol Covered Transactions) of the 2014 Protocol shall apply to
each Index CCM Client Transaction and each Single Name CCM Client
Transaction which incorporates the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions and each such CCM Client Transaction shall be a Protocol
Covered Transaction for the purposes of the 2014 Protocol provided
that:
(i)

the date on which the CCM Client Cleared Transaction
corresponding to such CCM Client Transaction is registered in
the TIW is prior to the Implementation Date;

(ii)

such CCM Client Transaction is not an Excluded Transaction (as
defined in the 2014 Protocol) provided that if such CCM Client
Transaction relates to more than one Reference Entity and would
otherwise be a Protocol Covered Transaction but for the inclusion
of any Affected Portion (as defined in the 2014 Protocol) therein,
such Affected Portion shall be exclude for the purposes of this
Mandatory Provision 2.6(a) and the remaining portion of such
CCM Client Transaction shall be deemed to be a Protocol
Covered Transaction;

(iii)

the Scheduled Termination Date in respect of such CCM Client
Transaction is on or after the Implementation Date;

(iv)

no Event Determination Date has occurred in respect of such
CCM Client Transaction prior to the Implementation Date;

(v)

from and including the Implementation Date the provisions of
Appendix XIII of Part B of the CDS Clearing Supplement shall
apply to such CCM Client Transaction or the portion of such
Cleared Transaction other than the Affected Portion, as
applicable and the CCM Client Cleared Transaction
corresponding thererto and such CCM Client Transaction shall be
treated as if it had been entered into and is subject to the 2014
ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions.
In the event of any

inconsistency between the provisions of Part B of the CDS
Clearing Supplement and the amendments set forth in this
paragraph 2.6, the provisions of Appendix XIII of Part B of the
CDS Clearing Supplement shall prevail.
3.

Additional CCM Client Transactions, Compression and Succession
Events

3.1

Creation of Additional CCM Client Transactions
Immediately following:
(a)

the creation of Matched Pairs by LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to Section
8.1 (Creation of Matched Pairs) of the CDS Clearing Supplement; or

(b)

the creation of Resulting Single Name Cleared Transactions pursuant
to Section 4.4 (Re-couponing of Restructuring Cleared Transactions) of
the CDS Clearing Supplement,

if a CCM Client Transaction has been specified to have been split into or
replaced by two or more separate CCM Client Transactions in the TIW as a
result of the creation of such Matched Pairs or Resulting Single Name
Cleared Transactions, such CCM Client Transaction shall be split into or
terminated and replaced by two or more (as applicable) corresponding CCM
Client Transactions. The Floating Rate Payer Calculation Amount and Fixed
Rate of each such CCM Client Transaction shall correspond to the Floating
Rate Payer Calculation Amount and Fixed Rate specified in TIW for such
CCM Client Transaction. In respect of CCM Client Transactions created as a
result of the creation of Resulting Single Name Cleared Transactions, the
Trade Date of such new CCM Client Transactions shall be the same as the
Trade Date of the equivalent Resulting Single Name Cleared Transactions.
Otherwise, each new CCM Client Transaction shall have the same terms as
the original CCM Client Transaction.
3.2

Reversal of Creation of Additional CCM Client Transactions
If a CCM Client Transaction has been split into two or more CCM Client
Transactions pursuant to Mandatory Provision 3.1 (Creation of Additional
CCM Client Transactions) above and the relevant DC Credit Event
Announcement that led to the creation of the Matched Pairs is reversed such
that Section 5.5 (Reversal of DC Credit Event Announcements) of the CDS
Clearing Supplement applies, then, subject to Section 9.1(c)(iii)(B) of the
2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions, any additional CCM Client
Transactions created pursuant to Mandatory Provision 3.1 (Creation of
Additional CCM Client Transactions) above shall be deemed not to have
been created and any Credit Event Notices delivered in connection with such
CCM Client Transactions shall be deemed to be ineffective.

3.3

Compression of CCM Client Transactions
If two or more CCM Client Transactions are specified in TIW to have been
compressed into a single CCM Client Transaction pursuant to Chapter 3
(Compression) of Title III (Clearing Operations) of the CDS Clearing Rule
Book, such CCM Client Transactions shall be compressed into a single CCM
Client Transaction with a Floating Rate Payer Calculation Amount equal to
the aggregate Floating Rate Payer Calculation Amounts of the original CCM
Client Transactions.

3.4

Succession Events and Cleared Transactions
If LCH.Clearnet SA takes any action with respect to a CCM Client Cleared
Transaction pursuant to Section 4.5 (Succession Events and Cleared
Transactions) of the CDS Clearing Supplement so as to give effect to a
Succession Event, such action shall also be deemed to have been taken with
respect to the corresponding CCM Client Transaction.

4.

Notices

4.1

Validity of Notices
Save if and as expressly stated to the contrary in the Mandatory Provisions,
any notice delivered by a CCM Client to its CCM in respect of a CCM Client
Transaction (including, without limitation, a Credit Event Notice, Notice of
Physical Settlement, Notice to Exercise Movement Option or NOPS
Amendment Notice) at a time or in a manner in which the CCM would not be
permitted to deliver such a notice to LCH.Clearnet (or to a relevant Matched
Buyer or Matched Seller as designee of LCH.Clearnet (as applicable)) in
respect of the corresponding CCM Client Cleared Transaction pursuant to the
terms of the CDS Clearing Supplement shall be deemed not to have been
delivered.

4.2

Credit Event Notices and NEMOs given via DTCC
(a)

Credit Event Notices and NEMOs to be given via DTCC
Credit Event Notices and Notices to Exercise Movement Option shall
be delivered by way of the relevant DTCC Notice Facility, save if and as
expressly stated to the contrary in the Mandatory Provisions or
otherwise agreed between the parties to the CCM Client Transaction.
The deemed time of delivery of any such notices shall be as set out in
the DTCC Rules from time to time.

(b)

Credit Event Notices and NEMOs delivered in respect of corresponding
CCM Client Cleared Transaction
In respect of a CCM Client Transaction, if:
(i)

CCM Seller/Matched Buyer or CCM Buyer/Matched Seller
delivers a valid Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise
Movement Option in respect of the corresponding CCM Client
Cleared Transaction by way of the relevant DTCC Notice Facility;
or

(ii)

a Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise Movement Option is
deemed to have been delivered in respect of the corresponding
CCM Client Cleared Transaction pursuant to Section 7.3(b)
(Credit Event Notices and NEMOs delivered in respect of CCM
Client Transaction) of the CDS Clearing Supplement as a result
of the receipt of a valid Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise
Movement Option (as applicable) by way of the relevant DTCC
Notice Facility in respect of the CCM Client Transaction between
the other CCM of a Matched Pair and its CCM Client,

and a Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise Movement Option (as
applicable) has not already been given in respect of such CCM Client
Transaction in accordance with Mandatory Provision 4.4
(Communications Failure Event) such notice (or deemed notice) shall
be deemed also to be a Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise
Movement Option (as applicable) for the purposes of such CCM Client
Transaction.
4.3

Consequences of DTCC Failure
If a DTCC Failure Event occurs, from (and including) the DTCC Failure Event
Time to (but excluding) the DTCC Resolution Time:
(a)

Mandatory Provision 4.2(a) (Credit Event Notices and NEMOs to be
given via DTCC) shall not apply and accordingly Credit Event Notices
and Notices to Exercise Movement Option shall be delivered directly
(and not via the relevant DTCC Notice Facility);

(b)

any notice delivered via the relevant DTCC Notice Facility prior to the
DTCC Failure Event Time will be valid and will not be affected by such
DTCC Failure Event; and

(c)

any notice delivered or purported to be delivered via the relevant DTCC
Notice Facility at or following the DTCC Failure Event Time but prior to
the DTCC Resolution Time will not be valid and effective.

Mandatory Provision 4.2(a) (Credit Event Notices and NEMOs to be given via
DTCC) shall apply with effect from the DTCC Resolution Time and,
accordingly, any notice thereafter delivered or purported to be delivered
directly (and not via the relevant DTCC Notice Facility) will not be valid and
effective.
4.4

Communications Failure Event
(a)

Right to deliver Notices manually following Communications Failure
Event
If a party is affected by a significant communications or information
technology failure resulting in it being impossible or impractical for such
party to deliver any Credit Event Notice in relation to a Restructuring
Credit Event or any Notice to Exercise Movement Option via a relevant
DTCC Notice Facility (a "Communications Failure Event") it may,
notwithstanding Mandatory Provision 4.2(a) (Credit Event Notices and
NEMOs to be given via DTCC), deliver Credit Event Notices and
Notices to Exercise Movement Option directly (and not via the relevant
DTCC Notice Facility).
Such party shall deliver, together with any Credit Event Notice or Notice
to Exercise Movement Option delivered by it directly, a notice signed by
a senior officer (such as a managing director or equivalent) of such
party certifying that it is affected by a Communications Failure Event
(or, if such party is unable to deliver such notice in writing, orally by
telephone).

(b)

Notices to party affected by Communications Failure Event
For the avoidance of doubt, Mandatory Provision 4.2(a) (Credit Event
Notices and NEMOs to be given via DTCC) shall continue to apply in
respect of notices given by the party not affected by the
Communications Failure Event to the party affected by the
Communications Failure Event.

(c)

Notification of Resolution of Communications Failure Event
As soon as reasonably practicable upon a party ceasing to be subject
to a Communications Failure Event, it shall notify the other party
accordingly and thereupon Mandatory Provision 4.2(a) (Credit Event
Notices and NEMOs to be given via DTCC) shall apply and,
accordingly, any notice thereafter delivered or purported to be delivered
directly (and not via the relevant DTCC Notice Facility) will not be valid
and effective.

(d)

Duty to Mitigate
A party which is subject to a Communications Failure Event shall use
reasonable endeavours to mitigate the operational impact on the other
party of any Communications Failure Event, to cure such
Communications Failure Event as soon as possible and to ensure that
the circumstances giving rise to the relevant Communications Failure
Event do not recur.

(e)

Breach does not Invalidate Valid Notices
Without prejudice to any other rights or remedies of the parties, any
breach by a party of the provisions of this Mandatory Provision 4.4 shall
not cause any Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise Movement
Option delivered otherwise than in accordance with the terms of the
relevant CCM Client Transaction, which would otherwise be valid and
effective, to be invalid or ineffective.

4.5

Uncertain Delivery
(a)

Manual Notice permitted if Delivery of Notice in DTCC uncertain
Notwithstanding Mandatory Provision 4.2(a) (Credit Event Notices and
NEMOs to be given via DTCC), where such notices are permitted to be
delivered by means other than the relevant DTCC Notice Facility
pursuant to this Mandatory Provision 4 (Notices), and a party is
uncertain as to whether or not a Credit Event Notice or Notice to
Exercise Movement Option (as applicable) it attempted to deliver via a
DTCC Notice Facility has:
(i)

actually been delivered; or

(ii)

was delivered prior to the DTCC Failure Time,

that party shall be entitled to deliver such a notice directly to the other
party specifying that such notice is only to be effective to the extent that
the other purported notice is not effective.
(b)

Details to be provided of Uncertain Notice
If a party delivers a manual notice pursuant to Mandatory Provision (a)
(Manual Notice permitted if Delivery of Notice in DTCC uncertain)
above, such party shall be required to provide (together with such
notice) sufficient details of the notice attempted to be given by way of
the relevant DTCC Notice Facility so as to allow the other party to
identify the communication concerned.

(c)

DTCC Notice delivered successfully
If the first Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise Movement Option
(as applicable) to which the manual notice delivered pursuant to
Mandatory Provision (a)‎(Manual Notice permitted if Delivery of Notice
in DTCC uncertain) above related was actually delivered successfully,
any subsequent Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise Movement
Option delivered shall be deemed not to have been delivered.

5.

Determination of Credit Events and Succession Events
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary:

6.

(a)

the Calculation Agent shall not make any determination in respect of
any matter which is or may be subject to resolution under Sections 3.5
(Succession Event Resolutions) or 3.6 (Substitute Reference Obligation
Resolutions) of the DC Rules; and

(b)

neither party shall be entitled to deliver a Succession Event Notice or a
Credit Event Notice (other than Credit Event Notices in relation to a
Restructuring Credit Event in accordance with the terms of any
Restructuring CCM Client Transaction (including the Mandatory
Provisions) and, where applicable, the DTCC Rules).

Timings for the Delivery of Manual Notices

The following provisions shall solely be applicable in respect of a CCM Client
Transaction between a CCM Client Buyer and its CCM Seller/Matched Buyer:
6.1

Delivery of Manual Notices by CCM Client Buyer
For the purposes of the delivery by CCM Client Buyer of any notice in respect
of a CCM Client Transaction which is permitted pursuant to the terms of such
CCM Client Transaction (including the Mandatory Provisions) to be delivered
manually (rather than via the relevant DTCC Notice Facility), Section 1.10
(Requirements Regarding Notices) of the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions shall be amended so as to provide that, solely in respect of the
final day on which such manual notice could validly be delivered pursuant to
the terms of such CCM Client Transaction (including the Mandatory
Provisions), any such notice shall be required to be delivered on or prior to
2:00 p.m. (Calculation Agent City time) in order to be effective.
A manual notice (including, without limitation, a Credit Event Notice or a
Notice to Exercise Movement Option) delivered after 2:00 p.m. (Calculation
Agent City time) on the final day on which such notice could validly be
delivered pursuant to the terms of the relevant CCM Client Transaction
(including the Mandatory Provisions) shall be deemed not to have been
delivered.

6.2

Onward Delivery of Certain Notices by CCM Seller/Matched Buyer to
Matched Seller
Any Credit Event Notice, Notice to Exercise Movement Option, Physical
Settlement Notice, NOPS Amendment Notice, any notice given pursuant to
Section 9.9 (Buy-in of Bonds Not Delivered) of the 2003 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions or any notice given pursuant to Section 9.10
(Alternative Procedures Relating to Loans Not Delivered) of the 2003 ISDA
Credit Derivatives Definitions which is permitted to be and is delivered
manually by CCM Client Buyer to CCM Seller/Matched Buyer in respect of
and pursuant to the terms of a CCM Client Transaction (including the
Mandatory Provisions) shall not be effective unless and until CCM
Seller/Matched Buyer effectively delivers the relevant equivalent notice to the
relevant Matched Seller in respect of and pursuant to the terms of the
corresponding Restructuring Cleared Transaction or Physically Settled
Cleared Transaction, as applicable.
CCM Seller/Matched Buyer undertakes to deliver such a notice to the
relevant Matched Seller within two hours of its receipt of the equivalent notice
from CCM Client Buyer if such notice is received between 9:00 a.m.
(Calculation Agent City time) and 4:00 p.m. (Calculation Agent City time) on a
Calculation Agent City Business Day. Any such notice received by CCM
Seller/Matched Buyer after 4:00 p.m. (Calculation Agent City time) on a
Calculation Agent City Business Day shall be deemed to have been received
at 9:00 a.m. (Calculation Agent City time) on the following Calculation Agent
City Business Day. Any such notice received by CCM Seller/Matched Buyer
before 9:00 a.m. (Calculation Agent City time) on a Calculation Agent City
Business Day shall be deemed to have been received at 9:00 a.m.
(Calculation Agent City time) on such Calculation Agent City Business Day.
Any such notice delivered on a day that is not a Calculation Agent City
Business Day shall be deemed to have been delivered at 9.00 a.m.
(Calculation Agent City time) on the following Calculation Agent City
Business Day.

The following provision shall solely be applicable in respect of a CCM Client
Transaction between a CCM Client Seller and its CCM Buyer/Matched Seller:
6.3

Receipt of Certain Notices by CCM Buyer/Matched Seller deemed to be
Receipt by CCM Client Seller
Any Credit Event Notice, Notice to Exercise Movement Option, Physical
Settlement Notice NOPS Amendment Notice, any notice given pursuant to
Section 9.9 (Buy-in of Bonds Not Delivered) of the 2003 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions or any notice given pursuant to Section 9.10
(Alternative Procedures Relating to Loans Not Delivered) of the 2003 ISDA
Credit Derivatives Definitions which is permitted to be and is delivered
manually by the relevant Matched Buyer to CCM Buyer/Matched Seller in

respect of and pursuant to the terms of a Restructuring Cleared Transaction
or Physically Settled Cleared Transaction (as applicable) relating to a CCM
Client Transaction between such CCM Buyer/Matched Seller and CCM Client
shall be deemed to constitute simultaneous delivery by CCM Buyer/Matched
Seller to CCM Client Seller of such notice in respect of such CCM Client
Transaction.
CCM Buyer/Matched Seller undertakes to deliver such a notice to CCM Client
Seller within two hours of its receipt of the equivalent notice from the relevant
Matched Buyer if such notice is received between 9:00 a.m. (Calculation
Agent City time) and 4:00 p.m. (Calculation Agent City time) on a Calculation
Agent City Business Day. Any such notice received by CCM Buyer/Matched
Seller after 4:00 p.m. (Calculation Agent City time) on a Calculation Agent
City Business Day shall be deemed to have been received at 9:00 a.m.
(Calculation Agent City time) on the following Calculation Agent City
Business Day. Any such notice received by CCM Buyer/Matched Seller
before 9:00 a.m. (Calculation Agent City time) on a Calculation Agent City
Business Day shall be deemed to have been received at 9:00 a.m.
(Calculation Agent City time) on such Calculation Agent City Business Day.
Any such notice delivered on a day that is not a Calculation Agent City
Business Day shall be deemed to have been delivered at 9.00 a.m.
(Calculation Agent City time) on the following Calculation Agent City
Business Day.
7.

Physical Settlement

7.1

Fallback to Cash Settlement resulting from corresponding CCM Client
Cleared Transaction
If a CCM notifies its CCM Client that the Physically Settled Cleared
Transaction corresponding to their CCM Client Transaction is to be settled (in
whole or in part) by Cash Settlement pursuant to Section 6 (Physical
Settlement) of the CDS Clearing Supplement and such CCM Client
Transaction has not already been settled by Physical Settlement, such CCM
Client Transaction shall also be settled (in whole or in part, as applicable) by
Cash Settlement and the Cash Settlement Amount and the Cash Settlement
Date shall be the same as the Cash Settlement Amount and the Cash
Settlement Date determined in respect of the corresponding Physically
Settled Cleared Transaction.
In respect of the CCM Client Transaction between CCM Client Buyer and
CCM Seller/Matched Buyer, If CCM Client Buyer has already Delivered the
Deliverable Obligations to CCM Seller/Matched Buyer, CCM Seller/Matched
Buyer shall redeliver equivalent Deliverable Obligations to CCM Client Buyer
in whole (if Cash Settlement applies) or in part (if Partial Cash Settlement
applies in which case CCM Seller/Matched Buyer shall retain a proportion of

the Deliverable Obligations equal to the proportion of the Transaction to be
settled by Physical Settlement).
7.2

Fallback to Cash Settlement in respect of Non-Deliverable Obligations
If, in respect of a CCM Client Transaction, Buyer is not permitted to Deliver
one or more Deliverable Obligations (such Deliverable Obligations, the NonDeliverable Obligations) specified in the relevant Notice of Physical
Settlement or NOPS Amendment Notice to Seller because:
(i)

the amount of such Deliverable Obligation is less than the
relevant minimum denomination of such Deliverable Obligation;
or

(ii)

Seller is not a permitted transferee under such Deliverable
Obligation (and, in the case of this sub-section (ii), such
circumstance would not constitute an illegality or impossibility
outside the control of a relevant party for the purposes of Section
9.3 (Partial Cash Settlement Due to Impossibility or Illegality) of
the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions),

then it shall notify Seller accordingly describing in reasonable detail the
relevant circumstances.
With effect from such notification, such occurrence shall be treated, in
relation to such CCM Client Transaction, as an illegality or impossibility
outside the control of a relevant party for the purpose of Section 9.3 (Partial
Cash Settlement Due to Impossibility or Illegality) of the 2003 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions and "Cash Settlement" pursuant to the Partial Cash
Settlement Terms shall be deemed to apply to such CCM Client Transaction
with respect to the Non-Deliverable Obligations as though the NonDeliverable Obligations were Undeliverable Obligations and the provisions
set out in Mandatory Provision 7.3 (Consequences of Cash Settlement)
below shall apply.
7.3

Consequences of Cash Settlement
If the circumstances set out in either Section ‎9.3 (Partial Cash Settlement
Due to Impossibility or Illegality) of the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions or Mandatory Provision ‎7.2 (Fallback to Cash Settlement in
respect of Non-Deliverable Obligations) apply to a CCM Client Transaction,
then:
(a)

the Latest Permissible Physical Settlement Date in respect of such
CCM Client Transaction will be deemed to be the first date on which the
relevant Buyer or Seller effectively gave the relevant notice to the other
pursuant to either Section ‎9.3 (Partial Cash Settlement Due to
Impossibility or Illegality) of the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives

Definitions or Mandatory Provision ‎7.2 (Fallback to Cash Settlement in
respect of Non-Deliverable Obligations) above, as applicable, (and for
these purposes, Section 9.7 (Latest Permissible Physical Settlement
Date) of the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions shall not apply);
and
(b)

where sub-paragraph (ii) of Mandatory Provision ‎7.2 (Fallback to Cash
Settlement in respect of Non-Deliverable Obligations) applies,
Indicative Quotations shall not be applicable.

The following provisions shall solely be applicable in respect of a CCM Client
Transaction between a CCM Client Buyer and its CCM Seller/Matched Buyer:
7.4

Delivery of Deliverable Obligations by CCM Client Buyer to CCM
Seller/Matched Buyer
This Mandatory Provision 7.4 shall be applicable unless the CCM Client
Buyer and CCM Seller/Matched Buyer agree that it shall not apply in
respect of a specific CCM Client Transaction.
In respect of a CCM Client Transaction, the Delivery of any Deliverable
Obligations to be Delivered by CCM Client Buyer to CCM Seller/Matched
Buyer shall be deemed not to have occurred for the purposes of such CCM
Client Transaction unless and until CCM Seller/Matched Buyer Delivers
equivalent Deliverable Obligations to Matched Seller pursuant to the
Physical Settlement of the corresponding Physically Settled Cleared
Transaction.
Unless in respect of the corresponding Physically Settled Cleared
Transactions:
(a)

Cash Settlement is applicable (in whole or in part);

(b)

a Buy-in Period is applicable or Buy-in Price has been determined
pursuant to Section 9.9 (Buy-in of Bonds Not Delivered) of the 2003
ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions;

(c)

a Deemed Buy-in Period is applicable pursuant to Section 6.8(b)(i) of
the CDS Clearing Supplement or Section 6.8(b)(ii) of the CDS Clearing
Supplement is applicable; or

(d)

Section 9.10(a) of the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions is
applicable or Matched Seller has required Matched Buyer to Deliver a
Bond or Loan pursuant to Section 9.10(b) of the 2003 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions,

(each such event, a "Non-delivery Event"), CCM Seller/Matched Buyer
undertakes to Deliver the Deliverable Obligations (or such portion of the
Deliverable Obligations not affected by a Non-delivery Event) to Matched

Seller not later than the first Business Day after the day on which a trade in
such Deliverable Obligation would, if effected on the day on which CCM
Seller/Matched Buyer received the Deliverable Obligations from CCM Client
Buyer or on which the relevant Non-delivery Event ceased to apply, as
applicable, (or if such day is not a Business Day, the following Business
Day), be settled in accordance with then current market practice of such
Deliverable Obligation, as determined by the Calculation Agent after
consultation with the parties.
For the purposes of Article VIII (Terms relating to Physical Settlement) of the
2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions, the Physical Settlement Amount
shall not be payable by CCM Seller/Matched Buyer to CCM Client Buyer in
respect of the CCM Client Transaction until the Physical Settlement of the
corresponding Physically Settled Cleared Transaction has occurred.
7.5

Buy-in of Bonds not Applicable
Section 9.9 (Buy-in of Bonds Not Delivered) of the 2003 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions shall not apply.

7.6

Buyer's Right to Deliver suspended during Buy-in Period
If CCM Seller/Matched Buyer notifies CCM Client Buyer in respect of a CCM
Client Transaction that (i) it has received a Buy-in Notice from Matched Seller
in respect of the Matched Contracts of the related Settlement Matched Pair or
(ii) it has been notified by Matched Seller in respect of the Matched Contracts
of the related Settlement Matched Pair pursuant to Section 6.8(b) (Deemed
Buy-in of Bonds resulting from CCM Client Transaction of Matched Seller) of
the CDS Clearing Supplement that such Matched Seller has received a Buyin Notice from its CCM Client in respect of the CCM Client Transaction
between such Matched Seller and its CCM Client, such notice from CCM
Seller/Matched Buyer specifying:
i)

the Buy-in Date;

ii)

the Relevant Bonds; and

iii)

the outstanding principal balance thereof sought to be bought-in,

then CCM Client Buyer's right to Deliver the specified Relevant Bonds shall
be suspended until the fourth Business Day (inclusive) following such Buy-in
Date.
7.7

Buy-in of Bonds in respect of Matched Contracts of the Settlement Matched
Pair
Provided that Physical Settlement has not already occurred in respect of a
CCM Client Transaction, if CCM Seller/Matched Buyer notifies CCM Client
Buyer that a Buy-in Price has been (i) determined or (ii) deemed to be

determined pursuant to Section 6.8(b) (Deemed Buy-in of Bonds resulting
from CCM Client Transaction of Matched Seller) of the CDS Clearing
Supplement, in respect of Relevant Bonds for the purposes of the Matched
Contracts of the related Settlement Matched Pair, then on the Buy-in
Effective Date:
i)

CCM Client Buyer will be deemed to have Delivered to CCM
Seller/Matched Buyer an outstanding principal balance of the
Deliverable Obligations equal to the outstanding principal balance of
the Deliverable Obligations Delivered or deemed to be Delivered by
CCM Seller/Matched Buyer to Matched Seller in respect of the
Matched Contracts; and

ii)

the Physical Settlement Amount to be paid by CCM Seller/Matched
Buyer to CCM Client Buyer in respect of this CCM Client Transaction
shall be reduced (but not below zero) by an amount equal to the
amount by which the Physical Settlement Amount to be paid to CCM
Seller/Matched Buyer by Matched Seller in respect of the Matched
Contracts is to be reduced.

CCM Seller/Matched Buyer shall notify CCM Client Buyer of such outstanding
principal balance of the Deliverable Obligations and such Physical Settlement
Amount reduction for the purposes of ‎i) and ‎ii) above and of the Buy-in
Effective Date.
If CCM Client Buyer has already Delivered Deliverable Obligations to CCM
Seller/Matched Buyer, CCM Seller/Matched Buyer shall redeliver equivalent
Deliverable Obligations to CCM Client Buyer and such equivalent Deliverable
Obligations shall have an outstanding principal balance equal to the
outstanding principal balance of the Deliverable Obligation(s) specified by
CCM Seller/Matched Buyer in the above notice and deemed to have been
Delivered by CCM Client Buyer to CCM Seller/Matched Buyer pursuant to
this Mandatory Provision 7.7.
7.8

Alternative Procedures relating to Loans – Seller Right to Select
Section 9.10(b) (Alternative Procedures Relating to Loans Not Delivered) of
the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions shall not apply.

7.9

Alternative Procedures relating to Loans – Seller designates alternative Loan
or Bond
In respect of a CCM Client Transaction, CCM Seller/Matched Buyer shall
notify CCM Client Buyer if it has purchased Bond(s) and/or Loan(s) pursuant
to Section 9.10(b) (Alternative Procedures Relating to Loans Not Delivered)
of the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions on the instructions of the
Matched Seller in respect of the corresponding CCM Client Cleared
Transaction.

Following such notification, such Bond(s) and/or Loan(s) shall be deemed to
have been Delivered by CCM Client Buyer to CCM Seller/Matched Buyer in
Physical Settlement of the CCM Client Transaction and the Physical
Settlement Amount payable by CCM Seller/Matched Buyer to CCM Client
Buyer shall be reduced (but not below zero) by an amount equal to the price
at which such Bond(s) and or Loan(s) were purchased.
CCM Seller/Matched Buyer shall provide CCM Client Buyer with details of
such Bond(s) and/or Loan(s) and the related purchase price(s) in such notice.
If CCM Client Buyer has already Delivered Deliverable Obligations to CCM
Seller/Matched Buyer, CCM Seller/Matched Buyer shall redeliver equivalent
Deliverable Obligations to CCM Client Buyer and such equivalent Deliverable
Obligations shall have an outstanding principal balance equal to the
outstanding principal balance of the Bond(s) and/or Loan(s) specified by
CCM Seller/Matched Buyer in the above notice and deemed to have been
Delivered by CCM Client Buyer to CCM Seller/Matched Buyer pursuant to
this Mandatory Provision 7.9.
The following provisions shall solely be applicable in respect of a CCM Client
Transaction between CCM Client Seller and CCM Buyer/Matched Seller:
7.10

Delivery of Deliverable Obligations to CCM Client Seller
This Mandatory Provision 7.10 shall be applicable unless the CCM
Client Seller and CCM Buyer/Matched Seller agree that it shall not apply
in respect of a specific CCM Client Transaction.
Subject to the proviso below, in respect of a CCM Client Transaction, the
Delivery of any Deliverable Obligations to be Delivered by CCM
Buyer/Matched Seller to CCM Client Seller shall be deemed to have occurred
for the purposes of such CCM Client Transaction upon receipt by CCM
Buyer/Matched Seller of the Deliverable Obligations in respect of the Physical
Settlement of the related Physically Settled Cleared Transaction; provided,
however, that if the CCM Client Transaction is to be settled by Cash
Settlement (in whole or in part) pursuant to Section 9.3 (Partial Cash
Settlement Due to Impossibility or Illegality) of the 2003 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions or Mandatory Provision 7.2 (Fallback to Cash
Settlement in respect of Non-Deliverable Obligations) then such portion of the
CCM Client Transaction which is to be settled by Cash Settlement shall not
be deemed to be settled until such Cash Settlement occurs.
Provided that Cash Settlement is not applicable, CCM Buyer/Matched Seller
undertakes to Deliver the Deliverable Obligations to CCM Client Seller not
later than the first Business Day after the day on which a trade in such
Deliverable Obligation would, if effected on the day on which CCM
Buyer/Matched Seller received the Deliverable Obligations from Matched

Buyer (or if such day is not a Business Day, the following Business Day), be
settled in accordance with then current market practice of such Deliverable
Obligation, as determined by the Calculation Agent after consultation with the
parties.
7.11

Alternative Procedures relating to Loans – Seller Right to Select
Section 9.10(b) (Alternative Procedures Relating to Loans Not Delivered) of
the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions shall not apply.

7.12

Alternative Procedures relating to Loans in respect of Matched Contracts
In respect of a CCM Client Transaction, if CCM Buyer/Matched Seller notifies
CCM Client Seller that a deemed amendment has been made to the Notice
of Physical Settlement or any NOPS Amendment Notice in respect of the
Matched Contracts of the Settlement Matched Pair that corresponds to such
CCM Client Transaction pursuant to (i) Section 9.10(a) or (b) of the 2003
ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions or (ii) Section 6.9 (Alternative Procedures
Relating to Loans Not Delivered – Deemed Amendment resulting from CCM
Client Transaction) of the CDS Clearing Supplement, then the Notice of
Physical Settlement or any NOPS Amendment Notice in respect of such
CCM Client Transaction shall be deemed to have been amended by the
addition of the Bonds or Loans which have been deemed to be added to the
Notice of Physical Settlement or any NOPS Amendment Notice for the
purposes of the Matched Contracts of the related Settlement Matched Pair.

8.

Self Referencing Transactions

8.1

Section 2.31 (Merger of Reference Entity and Seller) of the 2003 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions
Section 2.31 (Merger of Reference Entity and Seller) of the 2003 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions shall not apply.

8.2

Notification of Self Referencing Transactions
In respect of any Single Name CCM Client Transaction, the CCM Client shall,
unless prohibited from so doing by applicable law, notify the CCM as soon as
reasonably practicable if:
i)

the CCM Client is or consolidates or amalgamates with, or merges
into, or transfers all or substantially all of its assets to, the Reference
Entity in relation to such Single Name CCM Client Transaction or
enters into any agreement in respect of any of the foregoing;

ii)

the CCM Client and the Reference Entity in relation to such Single
Name CCM Client Transaction are or become Affiliates; or

iii)

8.3

in respect of a Restructuring CCM Client Transaction, the CCM Client
is or becomes the Reference Entity in relation to such Restructuring
CCM Client Transaction as a result of the occurrence of the relevant
Restructuring Credit Event.

Termination of Self Referencing Transactions
A CCM Client Transaction shall be terminated (unless it has already been
terminated) at the same time as the termination of the corresponding Single
Name Cleared Transaction pursuant to Section 9.1 (Occurrence of Self
Referencing Transaction) or Section 9.2 (Occurrence of Self Referencing
Transactions in respect of Clients) of the CDS Clearing Supplement and by
reference to the price at which such Single Name Cleared Transaction is
terminated and an amount will be payable:

8.4

(a)

if the CCM receives an amount from LCH.Clearnet SA in relation to
such Single Name Cleared Transaction pursuant to Section 9.1
(Occurrence of Self Referencing Transaction) or Section 9.2 (Occurrence
of Self Referencing Transactions in respect of Clients), by the CCM to the
CCM Client equal to such amount and on the Business Day following
receipt by the CCM of such amount from LCH.Clearnet SA; and

(b)

if the CCM is obliged to pay an amount to LCH.Clearnet SA in
relation to such Single Name Cleared Transaction pursuant to Section 9.1
(Occurrence of Self Referencing Transaction) or Section 9.2 (Occurrence
of Self Referencing Transactions in respect of Clients), by the CCM Client
to the CCM equal to such amount and on the later of (I) the Business Day
prior to the day on which the CCM is obliged to pay such amount to
LCH.Clearnet SA and (II) the Business Day following the Business Day on
which the CCM gives notices to the CCM Client of the relevant amount.

Costs of Terminating Self Referencing Transactions
Without prejudice to any other indemnity agreed between the CCM and the
CCM Client in relation to CCM Client Transactions, the CCM Client agrees to
indemnify and hold harmless the CCM from and against all costs and
expenses that the CCM is obliged to bear pursuant to Section 9.1
(Occurrence of Self Referencing Transaction) or Section 9.2 (Occurrence of
Self Referencing Transactions in respect of Clients) of the CDS Clearing
Supplement.

8.5

Compression of Self Referencing Transactions
Where the CCM acts as Matched Buyer and Matched Seller in respect of
fungible Single Name Cleared Transactions that have a corresponding CCM
Client Transaction in respect of which CCM has given notice to LCH.Clearnet
SA pursuant to Section 9.1 (Occurrence of Self Referencing Transaction) of
the CDS Clearing Supplement or in respect of which CCM Client has given

notice to CCM pursuant to Mandatory Provision 8.2 (Notification of Self
Referencing Transactions) and the relevant Single Name Cleared
Transactions are compressed pursuant to Section 9.1 (Occurrence of Self
Referencing Transaction) or Section 9.2(Occurrence of Self Referencing
Transactions in respect of Clients) of the CDS Clearing Supplement, the
CCM Client will be deemed to have submitted to CCM a request to compress
the corresponding CCM Client Transactions.
9.

Calculation Agent

9.1

Appointment of Calculation Agent
The Calculation Agent in respect of any CCM Client Transaction shall be the
CCM.

9.2

Calculations and Determinations of Calculation Agent
In the event that the Calculation Agent is entitled or required to make any
calculation or determination in respect of a CCM Client Transaction in respect
of a matter that has already been or will be determined in respect of and
pursuant to the terms of the corresponding CCM Client Cleared Transaction,
the Calculation Agent in respect of the CCM Client Transaction shall be
obliged to make the same calculation or determination in respect of such
CCM Client Transaction as the determination in respect of the corresponding
CCM Client Cleared Transaction (including, without limitation, any
determination of any Cash Settlement Amount payable in respect of the CCM
Client Transaction).

10.

Amendments
The Mandatory Provisions may be amended from time to time pursuant to
Section 11 (Amendments) of the CDS Clearing Supplement. The parties
agree that any amendments made to the Mandatory Provisions in
accordance with Section 11 (Amendments) of the CDS Clearing Supplement
shall be deemed to apply automatically to the CCM Client Transaction(s) with
effect from the date of such amendment to the Mandatory Provisions.

PART B
CDS CLEARING SUPPLEMENT
FOR INDEX CLEARED TRANSACTIONS AND SINGLE NAME TRANSACTIONS
INCORPORATING THE 2014 ISDA CREDIT DERIVATIVES DEFINITIONS

CONTENTS
SECTION

PAGE

1.

GENERAL PROVISIONS ................................................................................... 1

2.

TERMS OF CLEARED TRANSACTIONS ........................................................ 17

3.

PAYMENTS AND DELIVERIES ....................................................................... 24

4.

CREDIT EVENTS, SUCCESSION EVENTS AND RENAME EVENTS ........... 25

5.

RESTRUCTURING .......................................................................................... 30

6.

PHYSICAL SETTLEMENT ............................................................................... 32

7.

DELIVERY OF NOTICES AND FALLBACKS .................................................. 46

8.

MATCHED PAIR DESIGNATIONS AND NOTICES ......................................... 57

9.

SELF-REFERENCING TRANSACTIONS ........................................................ 62

10. MANDATORY PROVISIONS FOR CCM CLIENT TRANSACTIONS ............... 67
11. AMENDMENTS ................................................................................................ 67
12. FORMS OF NOTICES ..................................................................................... 68
13. EXCLUSION OF LIABILITY ............................................................................. 68
14. DISPUTE RESOLUTION ................................................................................. 69
15. GOVERNING LAW .......................................................................................... 69

1.

GENERAL PROVISIONS

1.1

Incorporation of Defined Terms
Capitalised terms used in this CDS Clearing Supplement and not otherwise
defined herein shall have the meaning given pursuant to the Index Cleared
Transaction Confirmation, Single Name Cleared Transaction Confirmation,
the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions or the CDS Clearing Rule Book,
as applicable. In the case of any such terms defined in the CDS Clearing
Rule Book, such terms shall be interpreted in accordance with the governing
law specified therefore in the CDS Clearing Rule Book.

1.2

Terms defined in the CDS Clearing Supplement
For the purposes of the CDS Clearing Documentation, the following
capitalised terms shall, unless otherwise specified, have the respective
meanings set out below:
2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions: The 2003 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions published by ISDA as supplemented by the 2009
ISDA Credit Derivatives Determinations Committees, Auction Settlement and
Restructuring Supplement to the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions,
including the DC Rules and Credit Derivatives Auction Settlement Terms
(each as defined therein).
2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions: The 2014 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions published by ISDA.
Affected Cleared Transaction: Following
(i)

(ii)

a DC Credit Event Announcement or a publication by the DC Secretary
of:
(a)

a Successor Resolution; or

(b)

a DC Resolution that a Substitute Reference Obligation has been
determined in respect of a Non-Standard Reference Obligation;
or

publication of a revised SRO List,

a Cleared Transaction that references the affected Reference Entity and/or
Reference Obligation, as applicable.
Asset Package Cash Settlement Amount: In respect of an Asset Package,
an amount in the Settlement Currency of the Physically Settled Cleared
Transaction to which such Asset Package relates equal to the total amount of
cash in such Settlement Currency (whether actual or deemed in accordance

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

1

Published on 14 April 2016

with Section 6.19(e) (Asset Package Delivery) comprising such Asset
Package.
Asset Package Notice: A notice in the form set out in Appendix IVB.
Buy-in Effective Date: As set out at Section 6.8 (Buy-in of Bonds – Matched
Seller has entered into CCM Client Transaction).
CCM Client Cleared Transaction: A Cleared Transaction between a CCM
and LCH.Clearnet SA registered in a CCM Client Trade Account of a CCM.
CCM Client Transaction: A Transaction between a CCM and a CCM Client
which is on the same economic terms as its corresponding CCM Client
Cleared Transaction.
CCM Client Transaction Documents: The documentation entered into by a
CCM and its CCM Client to document a CCM Client Transaction.
CDSClear Preferred Reference Obligation: This term shall have the
meaning set out in Section 4 of the Procedures.
CDSClear Product Committee: A committee composed of representatives
of LCH.Clearnet SA and representatives of Clearing Members for the
purposes of carrying-out the tasks apportioned to it by the CDS Clearing
Documentation as further described in the terms of reference for such
committee, agreed in consultation with the Clearing Members and as may be
amended from time to time in consultation with the Clearing Members.
CDS Clearing Rule Book: The document entitled "CDS Clearing Rule
Book" published by LCH.Clearnet SA, as amended from time to time.
CDS Type: A class of Cleared Transactions that are identical as to their
terms, except that they may differ as to:
(a)

the Trade Date;

(b)

in respect of Index Cleared Transactions, the Original Notional Amount;

(c)

in respect of Single Name Cleared Transactions, the Effective Date
(provided that the current and future Fixed Rate Payer Calculation
Periods for such Single Name Cleared Transactions are the same), the
Floating Rate Payer Calculation Amount and the Reference Obligation
(provided that LCH.Clearnet SA determines that the Reference
Obligations of the Cleared Transactions are equivalent for the purposes
of this CDS Clearing Supplement);

(d)

the Initial Payment Payer;

(e)

the Initial Payment Amount;

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

2

Published on 14 April 2016

(f)

the Initial Payment Date; and

(g)

the identity of the relevant Buyer and Seller.

CEN Triggering Period: In relation to any Restructuring Cleared
Transaction, the period during which the parties thereto may deliver a
Restructuring Credit Event Notice in relation to all or part of such
Restructuring Cleared Transaction, such period starting at 9:00 a.m. on and
including the earlier to occur of:
(a)

the Transaction Business Day following publication of the related Final
List; and

(b)

the fifth calendar day following the No Auction Announcement Date,

and ending on and including the Exercise Cut-off Date.
Clearing Member Acknowledgement: As set out at Section 7.7 (Clearing
Member Acknowledgements).
Clearing Member Communications Failure Event: As set out at Section
7.4 (Notification of DTCC Failure and Resolution).
Clearing Member Self Referencing Transaction: A Single Name Cleared
Transaction which is registered in the Account Structure of the Clearing
Member and in respect of which, the Reference Entity is either the relevant
Clearing Member or an Affiliate of such Clearing Member.
Client Self Referencing Transaction: A Single Name Cleared Transaction
(a) that is registered in the Client Account Structure of a Clearing Member,
and (b) in respect of which, the Reference Entity is either the relevant Client
or an Affiliate of such Client.
Compression Cut-off Date: The last date on which a Clearing Member may
submit a request for any Cleared Transaction to be compressed pursuant to
the ad hoc compression methodology and on which a daily automatic
compression cycle will be run by LCH.Clearnet SA, in each case in
accordance with Chapter 3 (Compression) of Title III (Clearing Operations) of
the CDS Clearing Rule Book and Section 5 of the Procedures, being:
(a)

in respect of any Index Cleared Transaction, the date falling one
Transaction Business Day prior to the Novation Cut-off Date in respect
of the relevant Eligible Index Version;

(b)

in respect of any Single Name Cleared Transaction and:
(i)

a Restructuring Credit Event, the earlier of (A) the date of
publication of the relevant Initial List (as defined in the DC Rules),
(B) the date falling two Transaction Business Days prior to the

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

3

Published on 14 April 2016

relevant date on which the related RMP Notification Deadline falls
and (C) such other date falling between the dates in (A) and (B),
as determined by LCH.Clearnet SA in consultation with the
CDSClear Product Committee and notified to the relevant
Clearing Members prior to such date; and
(ii)

a Failure to Pay Credit Event, a Governmental Intervention Credit
Event or a Bankruptcy Credit Event, the date falling one
Transaction Business Day prior to the calendar day following the
related Auction Final Price Determination Date, Auction
Cancellation Date or No Auction Announcement Date;

(iii)

a Succession Event, a date determined by LCH.Clearnet SA in
consultation with the CDSClear Product Committee, which shall
be not later that the Transaction Business Day before the date on
which DTCC will amend its records in respect of such Single
Name Cleared Transaction to take into account the occurrence of
such Succession Event, and notified to the relevant Clearing
Members prior to such date; and

(iv)

a Rename Event, the Transaction Business Day before the date
on which DTCC will amend its records in respect of Single Name
Cleared Transactions to take into account the occurrence of such
Rename Event.

For the avoidance of doubt, where a Clearing Member has specified
automatic compression on a weekly basis then the last such weekly
automatic compression cycle performed by LCH.Clearnet SA will be
performed on the Clearing Day falling on the Thursday on or before the
relevant Compression Cut-off Date.9
DC Restructuring Announcement Date: The date on which the DC Credit
Event Announcement of a Restructuring Credit Event is made, provided that
where such DC Credit Event Announcement is made after 6.30 p.m. on a
Business Day or on a day which is not a Business Day, the DC Restructuring
Announcement Date will be the first following Business Day.
Deemed Buy-in Period: As set out at Section 6.8(b)(i).
Dispute: This term shall have the meaning set out in the CDS Dispute
Resolution Protocol.
DTCC Failure Event: As set out at Section 7.4 (Notification of DTCC Failure
and Resolution).

9

Further amendments to be considered once new confirmations published.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

4

Published on 14 April 2016

DTCC Failure Event Time: As set out at Section 7.4 (Notification of DTCC
Failure and Resolution).
DTCC Notice Facility: A facility made available pursuant to the DTCC Rules
for the delivery of Credit Event Notices relating to Restructuring Credit Events
or Notices to Exercise Movement Option.
DTCC Resolution Time: As set out at Section 7.4 (Notification of DTCC
Failure and Resolution).
DTCC Rules: The "Operating Procedures", as published by DTCC and as
amended from time to time.
Failed Amount: As set out at Section 6.10 (Failure to pay Physical
Settlement Amount).
First Novation Date: In respect of:
(a)

an Index Cleared Transaction, the first date on which LCH.Clearnet SA
will accept Original Transactions referencing the relevant Eligible Index
Version for clearing pursuant to the CDS Clearing Documentation,
being, in the case of any such version published pursuant to the
occurrence of a Succession Event or Credit Event, the date on which
credit default swap transactions referencing such version of such index
are accepted for registration in the TIW in accordance with the DTCC
Rules;

(b)

a Single Name Cleared Transaction in respect of which a Novation Cutoff Date has previously occurred pursuant to the occurrence of a
Restructuring Credit Event in respect of the relevant Reference Entity,
the calendar day following the Transaction Business Day following the
latest possible Exercise Cut-off Date for the relevant Restructuring
Credit Event or such other date on which LCH.Clearnet SA determines
in consultation with the CDSClear Product Committee that
LCH.Clearnet SA will begin to again accept Original Transactions
referencing the relevant Reference Entity; and

(c)

a Single Name Cleared Transaction (other than in the circumstances
set-out in (b) above), the first date on which LCH.Clearnet SA
determines in consultation with the CDSClear Product Committee that
LCH.Clearnet SA will accept or will begin to again accept (as
applicable) Original Transactions referencing the relevant Reference
Entity.

Index Cleared Transaction: A Cleared Transaction which references a
portfolio of Reference Entities specified in a credit default swap index and
consists of a Component Transaction (as defined in the Index Cleared
LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

5

Published on 14 April 2016

Transaction Confirmation) in respect of each such Reference Entity, the
terms of which are as evidenced by an Index Cleared Transaction
Confirmation.
Index Cleared Transaction Confirmation: For
(a)

any Index Cleared Transaction which references a Markit iTraxx®
Europe Index Series 22 or above, the form of confirmation which
incorporates the iTraxx® Europe Untranched Standard Terms
Supplement, each as published on 20 September 2014 by Markit
Group Limited;

(b)

any Index Cleared Transaction which references a Markit CDX™ Index
Series 23 or above, the form of confirmation which incorporates the
CDX Untranched Transactions Standard Terms Supplement, each as
published on 22 September 2014 by Markit Group Limited; and

(c)

any Index Cleared Transaction which references a Markit iTraxx®
Europe Index Series 21 or below, the form of confirmation which
incorporates the iTraxx® Europe Legacy Untranched Standard Terms
Supplement, each as published on 20 September 2014 by Markit
Group Limited; and

(d)

any Index Cleared Transaction which references a Markit CDX™ Index
Series 22 or below, the form of confirmation which incorporates the
CDX Legacy Untranched Transactions Standard Terms Supplement,
each as published on 22 September 2014 by Markit Group Limited,

in each case as amended by this CDS Clearing Supplement and as
completed by reference to the relevant Transaction Data (or, in each case,
such other form of confirmation as may be adopted in respect of any CDS
Type in accordance with Section 1.2.2 (Modification) of the CDS Clearing
Rule Book).
Index CCM Client Transaction: A CCM Client Transaction which references
a portfolio of Reference Entities specified in a credit default swap index and
consists of a Component Transaction (as defined in the Index Cleared
Transaction Confirmation) in respect of each such Reference Entity and
which is on the same economic terms as an Index Cleared Transaction
registered in the CCM Client Trade Account in the name of such CCM for
such CCM Client.
Initial Re-couponing Notice: As set-out in Section 4.4 (Re-couponing of
Restructuring Cleared Transactions).
Initial Single Name Cleared Transaction: A Cleared Transaction entered
into following the novation of an Original Transaction and which references a
LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

6

Published on 14 April 2016

single Reference Entity, the terms of which are evidenced by a Single Name
Cleared Transaction Confirmation.
Initial Single Name CCM Client Transaction: A CCM Client Transaction
which references a single Reference Entity and which is on the same
economic terms as an Initial Single Name Cleared Transaction registered in
the CCM Client Trade Account in the name of such CCM for such CCM
Client.
ISDA: The International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. and any
successor thereto.
Mandatory Provisions: As set-out in Appendix XIII (CCM Client Transaction
Requirements).
Matched Buyer: A CDS Buyer comprised in a Matched Pair.
Matched Buyer Contract: A Cleared Transaction (or part thereof) between a
Matched Buyer and LCH.Clearnet SA which is the subject of a Matched Pair
having the Restructuring Matched Pair Amount or the Settlement Matched
Pair Delivery Amount, as the case may be, relating to that Matched Pair.
Matched Contract: A Matched Seller Contract or a Matched Buyer Contract,
as applicable.
Matched Pair: A Restructuring Matched Pair or Settlement Matched Pair, as
applicable.
Matched Seller: A CDS Seller comprised in a Matched Pair.
Matched Seller Contract: A Cleared Transaction (or part thereof) between a
Matched Seller and LCH.Clearnet SA which is the subject of a Matched Pair
having the Restructuring Matched Pair Amount or the Settlement Matched
Pair Delivery Amount, as the case may be, relating to that Matched Pair.
Matching Information Notification Deadline: In respect of a Restructuring
Cleared Transaction, 9.00 a.m. on the first day of the CEN Triggering Period,
provided that the Matching Information Notification Deadline shall fall no
earlier than the fifth Transaction Business Day following the relevant DC
Credit Event Announcement.
Matrix Re-versioning Date: As set-out in Section 2.5 (Physical Settlement
Matrix Updates).
NEMO Triggering Period: In relation to any Restructuring Cleared
Transaction for which either "Mod R" or "Mod Mod R" is applicable, the period
starting at 9:00 a.m. on the day falling on the relevant Movement Option Cutoff Date for the relevant Credit Event and ending at the last time for delivery
LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

7

Published on 14 April 2016

of a valid Notice to Exercise Movement Option under the terms of the
relevant Cleared Transaction.
No Physical Settlement Confirmation: As set out in Section 6.19
(Miscellaneous Provisions relating to Physical Settlement).
No Physical Settlement Confirmation Deadline: As set out in Section 6.19
(Miscellaneous Provisions relating to Physical Settlement).
Non-Deliverable Obligation: As set out at Section 6.12 (Fallback to Cash
Settlement in respect of Non-Deliverable Obligations).
Non-DVP Asset Package Settlement Amount: As set out in Section 6.6(b)
(Delivery of Non-DVP Obligations).
Non-DVP Obligation: In respect of any Physically Settled Cleared
Transaction: (1) a Deliverable Obligation, validly specified in a Notice of
Physical Settlement, which does not, in accordance with then current market
standards, settle on a delivery-versus-payment basis through the books and
records of a central securities depository or securities settlement system; or
(2) any Asset forming part of an Asset Package validly specified in an Asset
Package Notice given in accordance with the final paragraph of Section 8.2
(Notice of Physical Settlement) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions.
Notice Acknowledgement Deadline: As set out in Section 7.7 (Clearing
Member Acknowledgements).
Notice Reconciliation Deadline:
Member Acknowledgements).

As set out in Section 7.7 (Clearing

Novation Cut-off Date: The date with effect from which LCH.Clearnet SA will
no longer accept Original Transactions referencing an Eligible Index Version
or Eligible Reference Entity for novation, being:
(a)

following the occurrence of a Restructuring Credit Event, the earlier of:
(i)

a date determined by LCH.Clearnet SA in consultation with the
CDSClear Product Committee, which shall not be earlier than the
DC Restructuring Announcement Date; and

(ii)

the calendar day immediately following
Announcement Date,

the

No

Auction

provided that LCH.Clearnet SA in consultation with the CDSClear
Product Committee may, but is not required to, determine that the
Novation Cut-off Date for Index Cleared Transactions and the Novation

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

8

Published on 14 April 2016

Cut-off Date for Initial Single Name Cleared Transactions are to occur
on different days;
(b)

following the occurrence of a Failure to Pay Credit Event, a Bankruptcy
Credit Event or a Governmental Intervention Credit Event, the calendar
day following the related Auction Final Price Determination Date,
Auction Cancellation Date or No Auction Announcement Date, as
applicable;

(c)

following the occurrence of a Succession Event:
(i)

in respect of an Index Cleared Transaction, the date notified by
DTCC to LCH.Clearnet SA as being the date on which DTCC will
amend its records in respect of such Cleared Transaction to take
into account a new version of such index published by the
relevant index publisher taking into account the occurrence of
such Succession Event; or

(ii)

in respect of a Single Name Cleared Transaction, the day after
the date on which the DC Secretary publicly announces a
Succession Event Resolution in respect of such Succession
Event;

(d)

following the occurrence of a Rename Event in respect of Single Name
Cleared Transactions, the date determined by LCH.Clearnet SA in
consultation with the CDSClear Product Committee, which such date
shall not be later than the date on which DTCC amends its records in
respect of Single Name Cleared Transactions to take into account the
occurrence of such Rename Event; or

(e)

otherwise, as determined by LCH.Clearnet SA in consultation with the
CDSClear Product Committee.

Partial Cash Settlement Terms: As set out in Section 9.6 (Partial Cash
Settlement Terms) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions, as
amended by this CDS Clearing Supplement.
Payer: As set out at Section 6.17 (Physical Settlement Costs).
Physical Settlement Confirmation: As set out in
(Miscellaneous Provisions relating to Physical Settlement).

Section

6.19

Physical Settlement Confirmation Deadline: As set out in Section 6.19
(Miscellaneous Provisions relating to Physical Settlement).
Physically Settled Cleared Transaction: As set out at Section 6.3
(Physically Settled Cleared Transactions).

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

9

Published on 14 April 2016

Physical Settlement Matrix: The Credit Derivatives Physical Settlement
Matrix (as defined in Section 13.2 (Credit Derivatives Physical Settlement
Matrix) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions).
Recipient: As set out at Section 6.17 (Physical Settlement Costs).
Re-couponing Date: As set-out
Restructuring Cleared Transactions).

in

Section

4.4

(Re-couponing

of

Re-couponing Notice: As set-out in Section 4.4 (Re-couponing of
Restructuring Cleared Transactions).
Rename Event: As set out in Section 4.7 (Rename Events).
Restructuring Cleared Transaction:
A Cleared Transaction which
references a single Reference Entity and is created following the creation of
Restructuring Matched Pairs pursuant to Section 5.2 (Creation of
Restructuring Cleared Transactions), the terms of which are evidenced by a
Single Name Cleared Transaction Confirmation.
Restructuring CCM Client Transaction: A CCM Client Transaction between
a CCM and a CCM Client which references a single Reference Entity and
which is on the same economic terms as a Restructuring Cleared Transaction
registered in the CCM Client Trade Account in the name of such CCM for
such CCM Client.
Restructuring Matched Pair: A pairing comprised of a Matched Buyer and a
Matched Seller in respect of Restructuring Cleared Transactions created by
LCH.Clearnet SA for the purposes of delivery of Credit Event Notices in
respect of the relevant Restructuring Credit Event under Section 5.1
(Creation and Notification of Restructuring Matched Pairs).
Restructuring Matched Pair Amount: In respect of a Restructuring
Matched Pair, the amount of the Floating Rate Payer Calculation Amount in
respect of the relevant Restructuring Cleared Transactions allocated by
LCH.Clearnet SA to such Restructuring Matched Pair under Section 8.1
(Creation of Matched Pairs).
Resulting Single Name Cleared Transaction: A Cleared Transaction
which references a single Reference Entity and is created following the
termination of a Restructuring Cleared Transaction pursuant to Section 5.15
(Recouponing) of the Procedures, the terms of which are evidenced by a
Single Name Cleared Transaction Confirmation.
RMP Notification Deadline: In respect of a notification by LCH.Clearnet SA
to the relevant Clearing Members in relation to Restructuring Matched Pairs,
10.00 a.m. on the Transaction Business Day immediately prior to the first day
of the CEN Triggering Period provided that the RMP Notification Deadline
LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

10

Published on 14 April 2016

shall in no event fall prior to the second Transaction Business Day following
the occurrence of the related DC Credit Event Announcement.
Self Referencing Transaction: A Clearing Member Self Referencing
Transaction or a Client Self Referencing Transaction, as applicable.
Settlement Matched Pair: A pairing comprised of a Matched Buyer and a
Matched Seller in respect of Physically Settled Cleared Transactions deemed
to have been created by LCH.Clearnet SA under Section 6.2 (Creation and
Notification of Settlement Matched Pairs).
Settlement Matched Pair Delivery Amount: In respect of a Settlement
Matched Pair, the amount of the Floating Rate Payer Calculation Amount in
respect of the relevant Physically Settled Cleared Transactions allocated by
LCH.Clearnet SA to such Settlement Matched Pair under Section 8.1
(Creation of Matched Pairs).
Single Name Cleared Transaction: An Initial Single Name Cleared
Transaction, a Spin-off Single Name Cleared Transaction, a Restructuring
Cleared Transaction and a Resulting Single Name Cleared Transaction.
Single Name Cleared Transaction Confirmation: The form of confirmation
for use with the Physical Settlement Matrix that incorporates the 2014 ISDA
Credit Derivatives Definitions, as amended by this CDS Clearing Supplement
and as completed by reference to:
(a)

in the case of an Initial Single Name Cleared Transaction, the relevant
Transaction Data; or

(b)

in the case of any other type of Single Name Cleared Transaction, the
relevant Cleared Transaction or Cleared Transactions that existed
immediately prior to the relevant event that resulted in the creation of
such Single Name Cleared Transaction (with such amendments as are
required pursuant to the terms of the CDS Clearing Documentation),

or such other form of confirmation as may be adopted in respect of any CDS
Type in accordance with Section 1.2.2 (Modification) of the CDS Clearing
Rule Book.
Single Name CCM Client Transaction: A CCM Client Transaction between
a CCM and a CCM Client which is on the same economic terms as a Single
Name Cleared Transaction registered in the CCM Client Trade Account in the
name of such CCM for such CCM Client.
SMP Notification Deadline: In respect of a notification by LCH.Clearnet SA
to the relevant Clearing Members in relation to Settlement Matched Pairs,
noon on the Transaction Business Day following the day on which the
Fallback Settlement Method first becomes applicable.
LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

11

Published on 14 April 2016

Spin-off Single Name Cleared Transaction: The separate Single Name
Cleared Transaction formed in respect of a Reference Entity from a
Component Transaction (as defined in the Index Cleared Transaction
Confirmation) of an Index Cleared Transaction following the occurrence of a
DC Credit Event Announcement in respect of a Restructuring Credit Event
with respect to the Reference Entity of such Component Transaction in
accordance with the terms of such Index Cleared Transaction, the terms of
which are evidenced by a Single Name Cleared Transaction Confirmation.
Succession Event: an entity (or entities) constitute a successor or
successors in respect of a Reference Entity as determined pursuant to
Section 2.2 (Provisions for Determining a Successor) of the 2014 ISDA Credit
Derivative Definitions.
Successor Resolution: This term shall have the meaning set out in the DC
Rules.
Transaction Business Day: A "Business Day", as defined in the Index
Cleared Transaction Confirmation or the Single Name Cleared Transaction
Confirmation, as applicable.
Transaction Data: In respect of an Original Transaction to be novated
pursuant to Title III (Clearing Operations) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book and
cleared by LCH.Clearnet SA as an Index Cleared Transaction or Initial Single
Name Cleared Transaction, the data provided by an Approved Trade Source
System to LCH.Clearnet SA for such purposes, which includes, without
limitation:
(a)

in respect of an Index Cleared Transaction, the relevant index,
including details of the index name, series and version, the annex date,
the Original Notional Amount and the currency of the Original Notional
Amount;

(b)

in respect of an Initial Single Name Cleared Transaction, the Reference
Entity, Reference Obligation, applicable Transaction Type, Floating
Rate Payer Calculation Amount, the currency of the Floating Rate
Payer Calculation Amount and the Fixed Rate;

(c)

the Trade Date;

(d)

the Scheduled Termination Date;

(e)

the Floating Rate Payer;

(f)

the Fixed Rate Payer;

(g)

the Fixed Rate Payer Payment Dates;

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

12

Published on 14 April 2016

1.3

(h)

the Initial Payment Payer;

(i)

the Initial Payment Amount; and

(j)

whether the 2003 Credit Derivatives Definitions or the 2014 Credit
Derivatives Definitions are applicable to such Original Transaction (or,
in the case of an Index Cleared Transaction, each component of such
Original Transaction).

Inconsistency
To the extent of any conflict between:
(a)

any definition or provision contained in Appendix 1 (CDS Default
Management Process) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book;

(b)

the remaining sections of the CDS Clearing Rule Book;

(c)

the CDS Admission Agreement;

(d)

this CDS Clearing Supplement;

(e)

an Index Cleared Transaction Confirmation or a Single Name Cleared
Transaction Confirmation;

(f)

the Procedures; or

(g)

any Clearing Notices,

the first referenced document shall prevail except in relation to determining
the existence and amount of any payment and delivery obligations under any
Cleared Transactions, in respect of which this CDS Clearing Supplement, the
Index Cleared Transaction Confirmation or the Single Name Cleared
Transaction Confirmation, as applicable, shall prevail to the extent permitted
by law.
1.4

Timing
Pursuant to Article 1.2.8 (Time reference) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book,
any reference to a time of day herein shall be deemed to be a reference to
Central European Time unless otherwise provided herein.

1.5

Third Party Rights
Unless otherwise provided in this CDS Clearing Supplement or in the CDS
Clearing Rulebook, a person who is not a party to a Cleared Transaction
does not have any right under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act
1999 to enforce any provision of such Cleared Transaction or this CDS
Clearing Supplement as it relates to such Cleared Transaction.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

13

Published on 14 April 2016

1.6

Recording of Conversations
Each of LCH.Clearnet SA and each Clearing Member consents to the
recording of telephone conversations between the trading, marketing and
other relevant personnel of the parties in connection with any Cleared
Transaction and agrees to obtain any necessary consent of, and give any
necessary notice of such recording to, its relevant personnel and agrees, to
the extent permitted by applicable law, that such recordings may be
submitted as evidence in any related court or arbitral proceedings.

1.7

Application to FCM Clearing Members
(a)

Upon the taking of any action pursuant to this CDS Clearing
Supplement by an FCM Clearing Member in respect of an FCM
Cleared Transaction entered into as agent for the account of an FCM
Client (as described in FCM CDS Clearing Regulation 1(c)), such FCM
Clearing Member shall be deemed to represent to LCH.Clearnet SA
that it has the power and authority to, and has been duly authorised to,
take such action for the account of such FCM Client.

(b)

For purposes of this CDS Clearing Supplement, with regard to any
Cleared Transaction entered into by an FCM Clearing Member acting
as agent for the account of an FCM Client (as described in FCM CDS
Clearing Regulation 1(c)):
(i)

references herein to “CDS Buyer” or “CDS Seller”, as the case
may be, shall be understood to be references to such FCM Client
(which shall not, for the avoidance of doubt, prejudice
LCH.Clearnet SA’s right to deal solely with the FCM Clearing
Member pursuant to Article 6.1.1.3(vi) of the CDS Clearing Rule
Book); and

(ii)

references herein to: (1) a Clearing Member entering into a
Cleared Transaction with LCH.Clearnet SA; and (2) a Clearing
Member forming part of a Matched Pair, shall each be understood
as such FCM Clearing Member acting as agent for the account of
such FCM Client (as described in FCM CDS Clearing Regulation
1(c)).

2.

TERMS OF CLEARED TRANSACTIONS

2.1

General Terms of Cleared Transactions
(a)

Terms of Index Cleared Transactions and Initial Single Name
Cleared Transactions
(i)

Upon novation of an Original Transaction at the Novation Time in
accordance with Title III (Clearing Operations) of the CDS

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

14

Published on 14 April 2016

Clearing Rule Book, each resulting Index Cleared Transaction or
Initial Single Name Cleared Transaction is entered into by
LCH.Clearnet SA and the relevant Clearing Member on the terms
of the related Index Cleared Transaction Confirmation or Single
Name Cleared Transaction Confirmation (as applicable);

(b)

(ii)

Each component transaction of an Index Cleared Transaction
which references a Markit iTraxx® Europe Index Series 21 or
below or a Markit CDX™ Index Series 22 or below to which
Section A of the relevant Index Cleared Transaction Confirmation
applies shall be subject to the terms of Part A of this CDS
Clearing Supplement; and

(iii)

Each component transaction of an Index Cleared Transaction
which references a Markit iTraxx® Europe Index Series 21 or
below or a Markit CDX™ Index Series 22 or below to which
Section B of the relevant Index Cleared Transaction Confirmation
applies shall be subject to the terms of Part B of this CDS
Clearing Supplement.

Terms of Spin-off Single Name Cleared Transactions,
Restructuring Cleared Transactions and Resulting Single Name
Cleared Transactions
If any Spin-off Single Name Cleared Transaction is deemed to have
been entered into by the parties in accordance with the terms of any
Index Cleared Transaction or if any Restructuring Cleared Transaction
is created pursuant to Section 5.2 (Creation of Restructuring Cleared
Transactions) or if any Resulting Single Name Cleared Transaction is
created pursuant to Section 5.15 (Recouponing) of the Procedures,
such Spin-off Single Name Cleared Transaction, Restructuring Cleared
Transaction or Resulting Single Name Cleared Transaction is entered
into by LCH.Clearnet SA and the relevant Clearing Member on the
terms of the related Single Name Cleared Transaction Confirmation.

(c)

Trade Date of Cleared Transactions following Compression
Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) above, where Cleared
Transactions are subject to compression in accordance with Chapter 3
(Compression) of Title III (Clearing Operations) of the CDS Clearing
Rule Book, the Trade Date of any resulting Cleared Transaction(s) shall
be, in respect of any Cleared Transaction subject to:

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

15

Published on 14 April 2016

(i)

(ii)

2.2

ad hoc compression (as described in Chapter 3 (Compression) of
Title III (Clearing Operations) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book),
the date on which the request for compression was effectively
received and processed in accordance with Section 5 of the
Procedures, which shall be:
(A)

the Clearing Day on which such request is submitted and
uploaded by the relevant Clearing Member provided that
such request for compression was received by
LCH.Clearnet SA before 7.00 p.m. on such Clearing Day (if
such request is submitted and uploaded by the relevant
Clearing member via any means of access specified in a
Clearing Notice) or 5.00 p.m. (if such request is not
submitted via any means of access specified in a Clearing
Notice in the case of a disruption of the relevant means of
access);

(B)

the Clearing Day on which such request is submitted if such
request is not submitted via any means of access specified
in a Clearing Notice in the case of disruption of the relevant
means of access and is submitted after 5.00 p.m. but
LCH.Clearnet SA, in its sole discretion, processes such
request on the Clearing Day on which such request is
submitted; and

(C)

unless the relevant Clearing Member instructs the
Operations Department to withdraw such request, the
Clearing Day following the Clearing Day on which such
request is submitted if such request is not submitted via any
means of access specified in a Clearing Notice in the case
of disruption of the relevant means of access and is
submitted after 5.00 p.m. and LCH.Clearnet SA, in its sole
discretion, does not process such request on the Clearing
Day on which such request is submitted; or

automatic compression (as described in Chapter 3 (Compression)
of Title III (Clearing Operations) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book),
the Clearing Day on which such Cleared Transaction is
automatically compressed by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance
with Section 5 of the Procedures.

Index Cleared Transaction Confirmation
The Index Cleared Transaction Confirmation is amended, supplemented and
completed as follows:

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

16

Published on 14 April 2016

(a)

(i) if the Index Cleared Transaction references a Markit iTraxx® Europe
Index, by deleting the words "between [] (Party A) and [] (Party B)"
in the third line of the first paragraph; and
(ii) if the Index Cleared Transaction references a Markit CDX™ Index,
by deleting the words "between [Party A] ("Party A") and [counterparty's
name] ("Party B")" in the third and fourth lines of the first paragraph,
and in each case replacing them with:
"between LCH.Clearnet SA ("Party A") and Clearing Member, as
identified in the relevant CDS Admission Agreement between such
Clearing Member and Party A ("Party B")";

(b)

(i) if the Index Cleared Transaction references a Markit iTraxx® Europe
Index Series 22 or above, by deleting the fourth paragraph thereof (or,
for Markit iTraxx® Europe Series 21 or below, the fifth paragraph
thereof); and
(ii) if the Index Cleared Transaction references a Markit CDX™ Index,
by deleting the third paragraph thereof,
and in each case replacing it with the following:
"This Confirmation supplements, forms a part of, and is subject to, the
CDS Clearing Documentation, as defined in the CDS Clearing Rule
Book.";

(c)

if the Index Cleared Transaction references a Markit iTraxx® Europe
Index Series 22 or above, by deleting the fifth paragraph thereof (or, for
Markit iTraxx® Europe Series 21 or below, the sixth paragraph thereof)
and replacing it with the following:
"The terms of the iTraxx® Master Transaction, which is an Index
Cleared Transaction, to which this Confirmation relates are as follows:";

(d)

if the Index Cleared Transaction references a Markit CDX™ Index, by
deleting the fourth paragraph thereof and replacing it with the following:
"The terms of the Master Transaction, which is an Index Cleared
Transaction, to which this Confirmation relates are as follows:";

(e)

by specifying that the “Calculation Agent” is Party A;

(f)

by inserting the following “Additional terms”:
(i)

if the Index Cleared Transaction references a Markit iTraxx®
Europe Index Series 22 or above:

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

17

Published on 14 April 2016

"The Standard Terms Supplement is amended for the purposes
of this Transaction:

(ii)

(a)

by deleting in its entirety the last paragraph of the definition
of "Reference Obligation", beginning "If there is no
Standard Reference Obligation and the Index Sponsor…"
and deleting the words "and the following paragraph:" from
the first paragraph of the definition of "Reference
Obligation"; and

(b)

by deleting paragraph 5.5 (De Minimis Cash Settlement) in
its entirety";

if the Index Cleared Transaction references a Markit iTraxx®
Europe Index Series 21 or below:
"The Legacy Standard Terms Supplement is amended for the
purposes of this Transaction:by deleting paragraph 5.4 (De
Minimis Cash Settlement) of Section A and Section B in its
entirety";

(iii) if the Index Cleared Transaction references a Markit CDX™ Index
Series 23 or above:
"The CDX Untranched Terms is amended for the purposes of this
Transaction by deleting paragraph 5.6 (De Minimis Cash
Settlement) in its entirety";
(iv) if the Index Cleared Transaction references a Markit CDX™ Index
Series 22 or below:
"The CDX Legacy Untranched Terms is amended for the
purposes of this Transaction by deleting paragraph 5.3 (De
Minimis Cash Settlement) of Section A and Section B in its
entirety";
(g)

by deleting the contact details for notices and the account details; and

(h)

by deleting the signature blocks.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

18

Published on 14 April 2016

2.3

Single Name Cleared Transaction Confirmation
The Single Name Cleared Transaction
supplemented and completed as follows:
(a)

Confirmation

is

amended,

by deleting the words "between us" from the first paragraph thereof and
replacing them with:
"between LCH.Clearnet SA ("Party A") and Clearing Member, as
identified in the relevant CDS Admission Agreement between Clearing
Member and Party A ("Party B")";

(b)

by deleting the third paragraph thereof and replacing it with the
following:
"This Confirmation supplements, forms a part of and is subject to the
CDS Clearing Documentation, as defined in the CDS Clearing Rule
Book.";

(c)

by specifying that the “Calculation Agent” is Party A;

(d)

notwithstanding the terms of the relevant Original Transaction,
Standard Reference Obligation is applicable, provided that if there is no
Standard Reference Obligation, by specifying that the Reference
Obligation is the CDSClear Preferred Reference Obligation;

(e)

by deleting references to the Initial Payment Payer and the Initial
Payment Amount in part 2 in relation to Single Name Cleared
Transactions in respect of which there is no Initial Payment Payer and
Initial Payment Amount;

(f)

(i) if the Transaction Type specified in respect of the Single Name
Cleared Transaction is "European Corporate" or "Standard European
Corporate", by deleting part 4 in its entirety; and
(ii) if the Transaction Type specified in respect of the Single Name
Cleared Transaction is "North American Corporate" or "Standard North
American Corporate", by specifying that "Restructuring" is "Not
Applicable" in part 4;

(g)

by deleting parts 5, 6, 7 and 8 in their entirety;

(h)

by inserting the following provision in the "Additional Terms" section of
the Confirmation:
"Section 11.4 (Merger of Reference Entity and Seller) of the 2014
Definitions shall not apply."; and

(i)

by deleting the signature blocks.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

19

Published on 14 April 2016

2.4

Amendments to 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions
(a)

For the purposes of this CDS Clearing Supplement, Section 11.2(c)(iv)
of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions as incorporated in any
Cleared Transaction shall be amended such that, where LCH.Clearnet
SA is the designator in relation to any Restructuring Cleared
Transaction or Physically Settled Cleared Transaction, as applicable, it
is permitted to designate any relevant CDS Buyer or CDS Seller, as
applicable, in accordance with Section 8 (Matched Pair Designations
and Notices) as its designee, notwithstanding that such relevant CDS
Buyer or CDS Seller, as applicable, is not its Affiliate and for the
additional purposes of:
(i)

delivering or receiving any Credit Event Notice relating to a
Restructuring Credit Event or Notice to Exercise Movement
Option (in each case, to the extent not delivered via a DTCC
Notice Facility);

(ii)

delivering or receiving any Notice of Physical Settlement or
NOPS Amendment Notice or any Asset Package Notice pursuant
to Section 8.2 (Notice of Physical Settlement) of the 2014 ISDA
Credit Derivatives Definitions;

(iii)

making or receiving payment of any Physical Settlement Amount
and any costs and expenses of Physical Settlement; and

(iv)

delivering or receiving any notice and otherwise exercising any
rights or performing any obligations of LCH.Clearnet SA for the
purposes of Sections 9.7 (Buy-in of Bonds Not Delivered), 9.8
(Alternative Procedures Relating to Loans Not Delivered) or 9.9
(Alternative Procedures Relating to Assets Not Delivered) of the
2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions.

(b)

Section 11.2(a) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions is
amended by deleting the words "any master agreement governing the
Credit Derivative Transaction" at the end thereof and replacing them
with the words "the CDS Clearing Documentation".

(c)

Section 11.2(c)(ii) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions is
amended by deleting the words "any master agreement governing the
Credit Derivative Transaction" in the second paragraph thereof and
replacing them with the words "the CDS Clearing Documentation".

(d)

Section 11.2(c)(iii) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions is
amended by deleting both occurrences of the words "a master
agreement governing the Credit Derivative Transaction" and replacing
each with the words "the CDS Clearing Documentation".

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

20

Published on 14 April 2016

2.5

Physical Settlement Matrix Updates
(a)

Publication of Revised Matrix
Where ISDA publishes a new version (the "Revised Matrix") of the
Physical Settlement Matrix that is the Relevant Physical Settlement
Matrix in respect of an Eligible Reference Entity (the "Existing Matrix"),
LCH.Clearnet SA will, in consultation with the CDSClear Product
Committee, determine whether the Existing Matrix and the Revised
Matrix are fungible for the purposes of Single Name Cleared
Transactions referencing such Eligible Reference Entity.
If there are any changes between the terms of the Revised Matrix and
the Existing Matrix that would apply to Single Name Cleared
Transactions referencing the Eligible Reference Entity and the Existing
Matrix were they to reference the Revised Matrix instead, then the
Existing Matrix and the Revised Matrix shall be deemed not to be
fungible and paragraph (c) below shall apply.

(b)

Revised Matrix Fungible
If LCH.Clearnet SA determines in consultation with the CDSClear
Product Committee that the Existing Matrix and the Revised Matrix are
fungible for the purposes of Single Name Cleared Transactions
referencing an Eligible Reference Entity (such date of determination, a
Matrix Re-versioning Date), then:
(i)

LCH.Clearnet SA will promptly notify all Clearing Members of
such determination; and

(ii)

each Single Name Cleared Transaction referencing such Eligible
Reference Entity and the Existing Matrix will, as of the close of
business on the Matrix Re-versioning Date, be deemed to have
been amended so as to reference the Revised Matrix, which shall
become the Relevant Physical Settlement Matrix in respect of
such Eligible Reference Entity.

For the avoidance of doubt, following the publication of a Revised
Matrix, there may be different Matrix Re-versioning Dates in respect of
Single Name Cleared Transactions referencing different Eligible
Reference Entities.
(c)

Revised Matrix not Fungible
If it is determined that the Revised Matrix and the Existing Matrix are
not fungible for the purposes of Single Name Cleared Transactions
referencing an Eligible Reference Entity, then existing Single Name

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

21

Published on 14 April 2016

Cleared Transactions referencing such Eligible Reference Entity and
the Existing Matrix shall continue to reference the Existing Matrix.
(d)

Original Transactions submitted prior to Matrix Re-versioning Date
Any Original Transaction referencing an Eligible Reference Entity
submitted for clearing after a Matrix Re-versioning Date in respect of
such Eligible Reference Entity and which references the Existing Matrix
prior to such Matrix Re-versioning Date will, following novation, result in
an Initial Single Name Cleared Transaction referencing the Revised
Matrix.

3.

PAYMENTS AND DELIVERIES

3.1

Obligation to pay and deliver
Each of LCH.Clearnet SA and each Clearing Member will make each
payment or delivery specified under the terms of each Cleared Transaction to
be made by it, subject to the other provisions of the CDS Clearing
Documentation.
Payments under any Cleared Transaction will be made on the due date for
value on that date in the place of the account specified for the relevant party
in the CDS Admission Agreement (or such other account as may be
designated by it from time to time for such purpose in accordance with the
CDS Admissions Agreement and/or the Procedures, as applicable) and
otherwise in accordance with the CDS Clearing Documentation, in freely
transferable funds and in the manner customary for payments in the required
currency.
Deliveries under any Cleared Transaction will be made for receipt on the due
date in the manner customary for the relevant obligation unless otherwise
specified in or pursuant to the CDS Clearing Documentation.

3.2

Payments under Original Transactions
(a)

If any Initial Payment Amount or Fixed Amount is due and payable
under the terms of an Original Transaction on or before the Clearing
Day on which the related Cleared Transactions are created by novation
pursuant to Title III (Clearing Operations) of the CDS Clearing Rule
Book, such amount shall be payable under and in accordance with the
terms of such Original Transaction. In such event, no corresponding
Initial Payment Amount or Fixed Amount shall be payable in respect of
such Cleared Transactions.

(b)

If the Initial Payment Date of an Original Transaction is a date falling
after the Clearing Day on which the Cleared Transactions related to
such Original Transaction are created by novation pursuant to Title III

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

22

Published on 14 April 2016

(Clearing Operations) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book
corresponding Initial Payment Date for the related
Transactions shall occur on the Transaction Business Day
also a Clearing Day immediately following the Clearing Day
such related Cleared Transactions are created.

then the
Cleared
which is
on which

4.

CREDIT EVENTS, SUCCESSION EVENTS AND RENAME EVENTS

4.1

Determination of Credit Events and Succession Events
Notwithstanding any provision of any Cleared Transaction to the contrary:

4.2

(a)

LCH.Clearnet SA (in its capacity as Calculation Agent with respect to
such Cleared Transaction) shall not make any determination pursuant
to Section 2.10 (Substitute Reference Obligation) of the 2014 ISDA
Credit Derivatives Definitions or in respect of any matter which is or
may be subject to resolution under Sections 3.5 (Successor Event
Resolutions) or 3.6 (Substitute Reference Obligation Resolutions) of the
DC Rules; and

(b)

neither LCH.Clearnet SA nor any Clearing Member shall be entitled to
deliver a Successor Notice or a Credit Event Notice (other than Credit
Event Notices in relation to a Restructuring Credit Event in accordance
with the terms of any Restructuring Cleared Transaction and, where
applicable, the DTCC Rules and Section 7.8 (Failure to notify Matched
Pairs)).

Credit Event Timeline
(a)

Publication of Credit Event Timeline
Upon a DC Credit Event Announcement, LCH.Clearnet SA will publish
and make available to Clearing Members a timeline in respect of the
relevant Credit Event and related Affected Cleared Transactions, to
notify, among other things, the relevant Novation Cut-off Date(s),
Compression Cut-off Date(s) and First Novation Date(s).
Any such timeline shall (i) be published and made available on the date
of such DC Credit Event Announcement or, if LCH.Clearnet SA
determines that such publication on such date is not practicably
possible, as soon as practicable thereafter (but in no event later than
the Transaction Business Day before the earlier of the relevant
Novation Cut-off Date and the relevant Compression Cut-off Date) and
(ii) in all cases be without prejudice to and consistent with the terms of
the CDS Clearing Documentation and any relevant DC Resolutions.

(b)

Amendment of Credit Event Timeline

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

23

Published on 14 April 2016

Any such timeline may be subject to subsequent amendment by
LCH.Clearnet SA, by means of a Clearing Notice to Clearing Members,
only to reflect subsequent DC Resolutions, timing provisions of any
relevant Transaction Auction Settlement Terms and/or actions of
DTCC, or in each case any subsequent amendments thereto. Any such
amendment shall be made by LCH.Clearnet SA as soon as reasonably
practicable following the relevant event.
4.3

Novation and Compression following Credit Events
Any Restructuring Cleared Transaction (or portion thereof) in respect of which
a valid Credit Event Notice is not delivered during the relevant CEN
Triggering Period shall become eligible for compression in accordance with
Chapter 3 (Compression) of Title III (Clearing Operations) of the CDS
Clearing Rule Book on the Transaction Business Day following the related
Exercise Cut-off Date applicable to the relevant Buyer.
By way of clarification to Chapter 3 (Compression) of Title III (Clearing
Operations) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, LCH.Clearnet SA shall effect
compression of relevant Cleared Transactions if and to the extent requested
by a Clearing Member.

4.4

Re-couponing of Restructuring Cleared Transactions
Following a Restructuring Credit Event, LCH.Clearnet SA may perform recouponing in accordance with Section 5 of the Procedures on any
Restructuring Cleared Transaction (or portion thereof) in respect of which a
valid Credit Event Notice has not been delivered during the relevant CEN
Triggering Period, provided that:
(a)

LCH.Clearnet SA notifies (such notice, the “Initial Re-couponing
Notice”) all of the relevant Clearing Members of its intention to perform
such re-couponing and the intended date of such re-couponing (such
date, the “Re-Couponing Date”);

(b)

the Re-Couponing Date is no earlier than the later of (i) the end of the
relevant CEN Trigger Period; and (ii) eight Transaction Business Days
after the effective date of the Initial Re-couponing Notice;

(c)

all of the relevant Clearing Members have subsequently consented to
the proposed re-couponing, subject to confirmation of the terms of such
re-couponing, within five Transaction Business Days of the effective
date of the Initial Re-couponing Notice;

(d)

after receiving consent from all relevant Clearing Members in
accordance with paragraph (c) above, LCH.Clearnet SA notifies (such
notice, the “Re-couponing Notice”) the relevant Clearing Members, no

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

24

Published on 14 April 2016

later than three Transactions Business Days prior to the Re-Couponing
Date, of the proposed terms of the Resulting Single Name Cleared
Transactions determined by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with
Section 5 of the Procedures; and
(e)

all of the relevant Clearing Members have subsequently consented to
the proposed terms of such re-couponing process as set out in the Recouponing Notice within two Transaction Business Days of the effective
date of the Re-couponing Notice.

For the avoidance of doubt, if, in respect of a proposed re-couponing
process, LCH.Clearnet SA does not obtain consent from all of the relevant
Clearing Members in accordance with paragraphs (c) or (e) above, then
LCH.Clearnet SA may elect to propose a re-couponing process again in
accordance with this Section 4.4 for so long as any relevant Restructuring
Cleared Transactions remain outstanding.
4.5

Succession Events and Cleared Transactions
If LCH.Clearnet SA determines that any Original Transaction submitted for
novation or any Cleared Transaction subject to compression would have
been subject to a Succession Event but will no longer be subject to such
Succession Event upon novation or compression (as applicable) because of
the Trade Date that would be specified with respect to the relevant Cleared
Transactions, LCH.Clearnet SA may take such action as it deems necessary
to ensure that such Succession Event is given effect with respect to such
Cleared Transactions, including, without limitation, specifying an alternate
Trade Date for purposes of Section 2.1 (Reference Entity) of the 2014 ISDA
Credit Derivatives Definitions with respect to each relevant Cleared
Transaction or, where LCH.Clearnet SA determines that an alternative course
of action is not practicable, declining to accept such Original Transaction for
novation or Cleared Transaction for compression (as applicable).

4.6

Succession Event Timeline
(a)

Publication of Succession Event Timeline
Following the publication of a Successor Resolution, LCH.Clearnet SA
will publish and make available to Clearing Members a timeline in
respect of the relevant Succession Event and related Affected Cleared
Transactions, to notify, amongst other things, the relevant Novation
Cut-off Date(s), Compression Cut-off Date(s) and First Novation
Date(s).
Any such timeline shall be published and made available as soon as
practicable (but in no event later than the Transaction Business Day
before the earlier of the relevant Novation Cut-off Date and the relevant

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

25

Published on 14 April 2016

Compression Cut-off Date) and shall in all cases be without prejudice to
and consistent with the terms of the CDS Clearing Documentation and
any relevant DC Resolutions.
(b)

Amendment of Succession Event Timeline
Any such timeline may be subject to subsequent amendment by
LCH.Clearnet SA, by means of a Clearing Notice to Clearing Members,
to reflect subsequent DC Resolutions and any relevant actions of
DTCC, or in each case any subsequent amendments thereto. Any such
amendment shall be made by LCH.Clearnet SA as soon as reasonably
practicable following the relevant event.

4.7

Rename Events
In respect of Single Name Cleared Transactions, if a Reference Entity
changes its name (a "Rename Event"), LCH.Clearnet SA will publish and
make available to Clearing Members as soon as practicable upon becoming
aware of such Rename Event a timeline in respect of the relevant Rename
Event and related Affected Cleared Transactions, to notify, amongst other
things, the relevant Novation Cut-off Date(s), Compression Cut-off Date(s)
and First Novation Date(s).
Any such timeline may be subject to subsequent amendment by
LCH.Clearnet SA, by means of a Clearing Notice to Clearing Members, to
reflect any relevant actions of DTCC. Any such amendment shall be made by
LCH.Clearnet SA as soon as reasonably practicable following the relevant
event.

4.8

Updating Eligible Index Versions
(a)

Publication of Revised Index
Where the Index Publisher of an Eligible Index Version publishes a
revised version of such index following:
(i)

a DC Credit Event Announcement;

(ii)

a Successor Resolution; or

(iii)

the determination of a Substitute Reference Obligation in respect
of a Non-Standard Relevant Obligation , or

(iv)

Publication of a revised SRO List,

LCH.Clearnet SA will in consultation with the CDSClear Product
Committee determine whether such revised index version is fungible
with the Eligible Index Version after taking account of the relevant

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

26

Published on 14 April 2016

Credit Event, Succession Event or, as applicable, Substitute Reference
Obligation.
(b)

Index Version not Fungible
If LCH.Clearnet SA determines in consultation with the CDSClear
Product Committee that such revised index version is not fungible with
the Eligible Index Version after taking account of the relevant Credit
Event, Succession Event or, as applicable, Substitute Reference
Obligation, it shall notify DTCC accordingly so that DTCC does not
automatically update the trade records for Index Cleared Transactions
and Index CCM Client Transactions referencing the relevant Eligible
Index Version in the TIW.

(c)

Index Fungible
Unless LCH.Clearnet SA has notified DTCC in accordance with
paragraph (b) above, following confirmation from DTCC that the trade
records for Cleared Transactions referencing the relevant index have
been updated in the TIW (such date a DTCC Re-versioning Date) so
that such Cleared Transactions reference the revised index version
(which such revised index version shall become the Eligible Index
Version), LCH.Clearnet SA will update its corresponding records in the
CDS Clearing System overnight following such DTCC Re-versioning
Date. LCH.Clearnet SA will send Cleared Transaction Portfolio Reports
to the relevant Clearing Members on the Transaction Business Day
following such DTCC Re-versioning Date which will be updated so as to
refer to Cleared Transactions referencing the revised index version.

4.9

Reversal of DC Credit Event Announcements and Margining
If a DC Credit Event Announcement is reversed then, subject to Section
10.2(a)(i) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions, LCH.Clearnet SA
shall be obliged in accordance with Section 3 of the Procedures to calculate
and shall be entitled to call for Margin and/or be obliged to return Margin with
respect to each Clearing Member on the basis that the DC Credit Event
Announcement that is reversed had not been made.

5.

RESTRUCTURING

5.1

Creation and Notification of Restructuring Matched Pairs
Following the occurrence of a Restructuring Credit Event, LCH.Clearnet SA
will create (on one or, if the Novation Cut-off Date in respect of Index Cleared
Transactions is prior to the Novation Cut-off Date in respect of Initial Single
Name Cleared Transactions, two or more occasions) Restructuring Matched
Pairs in accordance with Section 8.1 (Creation of Matched Pairs). Each such

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

27

Published on 14 April 2016

Restructuring Matched Pair shall be composed of two Restructuring Cleared
Transactions created at the same time as and as a result of the termination of
the relevant Single Name Cleared Transactions pursuant to Section 5.2
(Creation of Restructuring Cleared Transactions) below.
LCH.Clearnet SA shall notify the relevant Matched Buyer and Matched Seller
comprised within each Restructuring Matched Pair of:
(a)

the identity of the other Clearing Member (together with the address,
fax number, telephone number, email address and other applicable
notice details of such other Clearing Member) of such Matched Pair;
and

(b)

the associated Restructuring Matched Pair Amount,

as soon as reasonably practicable following the related Compression Cut-off
Date, but in any event, at or prior to the RMP Notification Deadline.
LCH.Clearnet SA will additionally provide to DTCC all relevant "Matching
Information" (as defined in the DTCC Rules) on or prior to the Matching
Information Notification Deadline.
5.2

Creation of Restructuring Cleared Transactions
Upon the notification to the relevant Clearing Members of Restructuring
Matched Pairs, the relevant Initial Single Name Cleared Transactions,
Restructuring Cleared Transactions (created following the occurrence of a
previous Restructuring Credit Event), Spin-off Single Name Cleared
Transactions and Resulting Single Name Cleared Transactions entered into
by each Clearing Member with LCH.Clearnet SA will be deemed terminated
and new Restructuring Cleared Transactions of the same CDS Type will be
deemed to be entered into between each such Clearing Member and
LCH.Clearnet SA, with each such Restructuring Cleared Transaction having
a Floating Rate Payer Calculation Amount corresponding to the Restructuring
Matched Pair Amount of a Restructuring Matched Pair in which the relevant
Clearing Member is comprised as a Matched Buyer or a Matched Seller, as
applicable.

5.3

Triggering of Restructuring Cleared Transactions
Subject as set out in Section 7 (Delivery of Notices and Fallbacks), and
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the terms of any Cleared
Transaction, Clearing Members may only deliver Credit Event Notices in
relation to a Restructuring Credit Event during the CEN Triggering Period
following notification of Restructuring Matched Pairs by LCH.Clearnet SA and
subject always to the terms of the relevant Restructuring Cleared Transaction
and, where applicable, the DTCC Rules.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

28

Published on 14 April 2016

Any Credit Event Notice delivered in respect of a Restructuring Matched Pair
for an amount which is greater than the related Floating Rate Payer
Calculation Amount shall be ineffective as to such excess.
5.4

Notice to Exercise Movement Option
Subject as set out in Section 7 (Delivery of Notices and Fallbacks), Clearing
Members may only deliver a Notice to Exercise Movement Option during the
NEMO Triggering Period, subject always to the other terms of the relevant
Restructuring Cleared Transaction and, where applicable, the DTCC Rules.

5.5

Reversal of DC Credit Event Announcements
If a DC Credit Event Announcement made in relation to a Restructuring
Credit Event is reversed then, subject to Section 10.2(a)(i) of the 2014 ISDA
Credit Derivatives Definitions:

5.6

(a)

LCH.Clearnet SA shall have no obligation to create Restructuring
Matched Pairs in accordance with Section 5.1 (Creation and
Notification of Restructuring Matched Pairs), any such Restructuring
Matched Pairs so created shall be deemed not to have been created
and any Credit Event Notices delivered in connection with such
Restructuring Matched Pairs shall be deemed to be ineffective;

(b)

LCH.Clearnet SA shall, where applicable, make relevant registrations in
the TIW in order to reflect such reversal which shall also automatically
result in such registrations being made in respect of any related CCM
Client Transactions; and

(c)

Section 4.9 (Reversal of DC Credit Event Announcements and
Margining) shall apply.

Reports
Without prejudice to the notification requirements set out elsewhere in the
CDS Clearing Documentation, LCH.Clearnet SA will communicate to the
relevant Clearing Members, on the basis of information received from DTCC
or, as applicable, from Clearing Members, amongst other things:
(a)

the aggregate Floating Rate Payer Calculation Amounts of
Restructuring Cleared Transactions to which they are a party and which
are the subject of Credit Event Notices; and

(b)

the results of the exercise of any Movement Option in relation to
Cleared Transactions to which they are a party,

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

29

Published on 14 April 2016

at or around 7.00 p.m. on each day during each CEN Triggering Period and
NEMO Triggering Period, as applicable, through the reports referred to in
Section 5 of the Procedures.
For the avoidance of doubt, such communication shall not affect the validity
or effectiveness of any Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise Movement
Option which shall be subject to the terms of the relevant Restructuring
Cleared Transaction.
6.

PHYSICAL SETTLEMENT

6.1

General Terms relating to Physical Settlement
Where Physical Settlement is applicable as the Fallback Settlement Method
pursuant to Section 6.1 (Auction Settlement) or 6.15 (Movement Option) of
the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions, each Cleared Transaction will
be subject to settlement in accordance with its terms and this Section 6
(Physical Settlement).
LCH.Clearnet SA has implemented a process, as set-out in this Section 6
(Physical Settlement), pursuant to which Clearing Members will manage the
physical delivery process bilaterally in respect of any Cleared Transactions
for which Physical Settlement is applicable.
Notwithstanding such process, LCH.Clearnet SA shall remain the legal
counterparty for any such Cleared Transactions for which Physical
Settlement is applicable and shall continue to be liable with respect to its
obligations relating to such Physical Settlement, subject to its terms and this
Section 6 (Physical Settlement).

6.2

Creation and Notification of Settlement Matched Pairs
LCH.Clearnet SA will create Settlement Matched Pairs in accordance with
Section 8.1 (Creation of Matched Pairs) and notify Matched Buyer and
Matched Seller comprised within each Settlement Matched Pair of:
(a)

the identity of the other Clearing Member (together with the address,
fax number, telephone number, email address and other applicable
notice details of each such other Clearing Member); and

(b)

the associated Settlement Matched Pair Delivery Amount,

at or prior to the SMP Notification Deadline.
Notwithstanding the above, the Settlement Matched Pair for a Restructuring
Cleared Transaction shall be the Restructuring Matched Pair previously
created by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Section 5.1 (Creation and

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

30

Published on 14 April 2016

Notification of Restructuring Matched Pairs) in respect of such Restructuring
Cleared Transaction.
6.3

Physically Settled Cleared Transactions
Following the actual or deemed creation of such Settlement Matched Pairs,
the relevant Cleared Transactions in respect of which the Fallback Settlement
Method applies will be construed as if they had been terminated and new
Cleared Transactions of the same CDS Type will be deemed to have been
entered into between each such Clearing Member and LCH.Clearnet SA
(each such deemed Cleared Transaction being a "Physically Settled
Cleared Transaction").
Each such Physically Settled Cleared Transaction shall have a Floating Rate
Payer Calculation Amount corresponding to the Settlement Matched Pair
Delivery Amount of a Settlement Matched Pair in which the relevant Clearing
Member is comprised as a Matched Buyer or a Matched Seller, as applicable.

6.4

Matched Seller Calculation Agent
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in a Physically Settled Cleared
Transaction (but subject as set out in Section 6.10 (Failure to pay Physical
Settlement Amount), the "Calculation Agent" for the purposes of Article VIII
(Terms relating to Physical Settlement) and Section 9.6 (Partial Cash
Settlement Terms) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions shall be
the relevant Matched Seller.

6.5

Notices of Physical Settlement
(a)

No Notices of Physical Settlement until Notification of Settlement
Matched Pairs
Subject as set out at Section 7.8 (Failure to notify Matched Pairs) and
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the terms of any Cleared
Transaction, Clearing Members may not deliver any Notices of Physical
Settlement or Asset Package Notices in respect of any Affected
Cleared Transactions until they have been notified of their Settlement
Matched Pairs.

(b)

Notice of Physical Settlement and Asset Package Notice to
contain Matched Buyer Account Information
Each Notice of Physical Settlement and Asset Package Notice
delivered by Matched Buyer shall contain, in addition to the information
required under the terms of the relevant Physically Settled Cleared
Transaction, Matched Buyer's account information.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

31

Published on 14 April 2016

(c)

Details of Asset Package
If Asset Package Delivery is applicable in respect of a Physically
Settled Cleared Transaction, the Matched Buyer shall on the NOPS
Effective Date, or as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter, deliver
an Asset Package Notice to the Matched Seller containing a detailed
description of the Asset Package that the Matched Buyer intends to
deliver to Matched Seller in lieu of the Prior Deliverable Obligation that
is specified in the Notice of Physical Settlement or NOPS Amendment
Notice, as applicable.

(d)

LCH.Clearnet SA not Liable
LCH.Clearnet SA shall have no liability with respect to any loss, cost,
damage or expense suffered or incurred by a Matched Seller as a
result of any error or inaccuracy in any Notice of Physical Settlement or
any NOPS Amendment Notice or Asset Package Notice sent by a
Matched Buyer and shall have no duty to verify any such notice or the
contents thereof.

6.6

Delivery of Non-DVP Obligations
The following shall apply in relation to any Settlement Matched Pair where:
(1) the relevant Matched Buyer specifies a Non-DVP Obligation in a Notice of
Physical Settlement or a NOPS Amendment Notice, or (2) if Asset Package
Delivery is applicable in respect of a Physically Settled Cleared Transaction:
(a)

The relevant Matched Buyer shall notify LCH.Clearnet SA that it is
ready to Deliver the relevant Non-DVP Obligation (or if Asset Package
Delivery is applicable, the Assets that are to be delivered) at or prior to
5.30 p.m. on the Transaction Business Day prior to the date on which
Delivery is scheduled to occur. In such notice, the relevant Matched
Buyer shall also specify the amount of any expenses payable to it
under Section 11.2(c)(vi) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions.

(b)

LCH.Clearnet SA shall notify the relevant Matched Seller at or prior to
6.30 p.m. on the Transaction Business Day prior to the date on which
Delivery is scheduled to occur that it is obligated to pay LCH.Clearnet
SA the amount of the relevant Physical Settlement Amount
corresponding to the Outstanding Amount of such Non-DVP Obligation
or, if Asset Package Delivery is applicable in respect of such Settlement
Matched Pair, the amount of such Physical Settlement Amount which
corresponds to the Outstanding Amount of
the Deliverable
Obligation(s) in lieu of which the Asset Package is being Delivered less
an amount equal to the Asset Package Cash Settlement Amount
determined in respect of such Asset Package (the "Non-DVP Asset

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

32

Published on 14 April 2016

Package Settlement Amount") and in each case any amounts in
respect of expenses notified by the relevant Matched Buyer before 9.00
a.m. on the following Transaction Business Day.
(c)

The relevant Matched Seller shall pay to LCH.Clearnet SA the
amount(s) so requested on or prior to 9.00 a.m. on the Transaction
Business Day immediately following the date on which the relevant
Matched Buyer notified LCH.Clearnet SA of its readiness to Deliver
provided that the request for payment has been made in a timely
manner as set out above.

(d)

LCH.Clearnet SA shall notify the relevant Matched Buyer that it has
received payment at or prior to 5.30 p.m. on the Transaction Business
Day in which LCH.Clearnet SA receives payment, provided that
payment is received by LCH.Clearnet SA at or prior to 9.00 a.m. on
such Transaction Business Day as set out above.

(e)

The relevant Matched Buyer shall Deliver the relevant non-DVP
Obligations (or if Asset Package Delivery is applicable, the Assets that
are to be delivered) to the relevant Matched Seller, provided that, if
Asset Package Delivery is applicable the relevant Matched Buyer's
obligation to deliver any Assets in the form of cash in the Settlement
Currency forming part of the relevant Asset Package will be
automatically satisfied and discharged.

(f)

The relevant Matched Seller shall notify LCH.Clearnet SA that Delivery
has occurred by 5.30 p.m. on the Transaction Business Day on which
Matched Seller receives Delivery of the relevant Non-DVP Obligations
(or if Asset Package Delivery is applicable, the relevant Assets that are
to be delivered pursuant to this Section 6.6 (Delivery of Non-DVP
Obligations). Notices received after 3.30 p.m. will be deemed received
on the next following Transaction Business Day, unless LCH.Clearnet
SA agrees otherwise.

(g)

If and to the extent that LCH.Clearnet SA has received payment from
the relevant Matched Seller of the Physical Settlement Amount or the
Non-DVP Asset Package Settlement Amount, as applicable in full on a
timely basis as set out above, LCH.Clearnet SA shall pay the Physical
Settlement Amount or the Non-DVP Asset Package Settlement
Amount, as applicable and any expenses due to the relevant Matched
Buyer under Section 11.2(c)(vi) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions on or prior to 9.00 a.m. on the Transaction Business Day
following the Transaction Business Day on which LCH.Clearnet SA
receives the notice referred to in sub-paragraph (e) above from the
relevant Matched Seller.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

33

Published on 14 April 2016

(h)

6.7

If and to the extent that Delivery of the relevant Non-DVP Obligations
has not been effected by the relevant Matched Buyer in accordance
with terms of the relevant Physically Settled Cleared Transaction as of
the expiry of the third Transaction Business Day following delivery of
the relevant Matched Buyer's notice referred to above, the relevant
Matched Seller may request LCH.Clearnet SA to repay the Physical
Settlement Amount or the Non-DVP Asset Package Settlement
Amount, as applicable, not earlier than the first Transaction Business
Day following the date on which such request is effectively delivered to
LCH.Clearnet SA.

Alternative Delivery Procedure
A Matched Buyer and Matched Seller comprising a Settlement Matched Pair
may elect to exercise their rights against and perform obligations to
LCH.Clearnet SA in relation to the Settlement Matched Pair Delivery Amount
(or any portion thereof) directly as between themselves. To exercise such
option, the relevant Matched Buyer and Matched Seller must each notify
LCH.Clearnet SA accordingly (in the form set out in Appendix V hereto)
specifying the relevant Matched Contracts in respect of the related relevant
Settlement Matched Pair Delivery Amounts and obtain the consent of
LCH.Clearnet SA, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld or
delayed by more than one Transaction Business Day following receipt of
such notification by Matched Buyer and Matched Seller.
With effect from the time that LCH.Clearnet SA confirms its consent, the
Settlement Matched Pair Delivery Amount will be reduced by the amount
specified in the joint notice of the relevant Matched Buyer and Matched
Seller, and the relevant Matched Buyer and Matched Seller shall each
perform their obligations to each other and shall each acquire enforcement
rights in respect of the other party's obligations to it pursuant to the Contracts
(Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 in respect of any such reduction as agreed
between them.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

34

Published on 14 April 2016

6.8

Buy-in of Bonds – Matched Seller has entered into CCM Client
Transaction
The following provisions shall solely be applicable to a Matched Seller
that is a CCM in respect of the Matched Contracts of the Settlement
Matched Pair if such Matched Seller notifies Matched Buyer and
LCH.Clearnet SA that it has a CCM Client Transaction which
corresponds to the Matched Seller Contract:
(a)

Buy-in of Bonds – Settlement Matched Pair
Section 9.7 (Buy-in of Bonds Not Delivered) of the 2014 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions shall not apply in respect of the Matched
Contracts of the Settlement Matched Pair.

(b)

Deemed Buy-in of Bonds resulting from CCM Client Transaction of
Matched Seller that is a CCM
Provided that Physical Settlement has not already occurred in respect
of the Matched Contracts of a Settlement Matched Pair, if:
(i)

the Matched Seller that is a CCM receives a Buy-in Notice from
its CCM Client in respect of the CCM Client Transaction between
such Matched Seller and its CCM Client which is validly delivered
pursuant to the terms of such CCM Client Transaction (including
the Mandatory Provisions), then such Matched Seller shall notify
Matched Buyer and LCH.Clearnet.SA of its receipt of such Buy-in
Notice and of the content thereof and Matched Buyer's right to
Deliver the Relevant Bonds specified in the relevant Buy-in Notice
shall be suspended until the fourth Business Day (inclusive)
following the Buy-In Date specified in the relevant Buy-In Notice
(the "Deemed Buy-in Period"); and

(ii)

such Matched Seller notifies Matched Buyer and LCH.Clearnet
SA that it has been notified by its CCM Client pursuant to Section
‎9.7 (Buy-in of Bonds Not Delivered) of the 2014 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions that a Buy-in Price has been determined in
respect of Relevant Bonds for the purposes of the CCM Client
Transaction between such Matched Seller and its CCM Client,
then on the third Business Day following receipt by Matched
Seller of such notice from its CCM Client (which such date
Matched Seller shall specify) (the "Buy-in Effective Date"):
(A)

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

Matched Buyer will be deemed to have Delivered to such
Matched Seller an outstanding principal balance of the
Deliverable Obligations specified in the Notice of Physical
Settlement or any NOPS Amendment Notice, as applicable,
35

Published on 14 April 2016

for which a Buy-in Price was determined by the CCM Client;
and
(B)

the Physical Settlement Amount to be paid by such
Matched Seller to Matched Buyer in respect of the Matched
Contracts of the Settlement Matched Pair shall be reduced
(but not below zero) by an amount equal to the amount by
which the Physical Settlement Amount to be paid to such
Matched Seller by its CCM Client in respect of the CCM
Client Transaction has been reduced pursuant to Section
‎9.7 (Buy-in of Bonds Not Delivered) of the 2014 ISDA
Credit Derivatives Definitions.

Such Matched Seller shall notify Matched Buyer and
LCH.Clearnet SA of the outstanding principal balance of the
Deliverable Obligations and the Physical Settlement Amount
reduction determined in respect of its CCM Client Transaction for
the purposes of (A) and (B) above.
6.9

Alternative Procedures relating to Loans – Buyer Right to Deliver
The following provision shall solely be applicable in respect of the
Matched Contracts of the Settlement Matched Pair if a Matched Buyer
that is a CCM notifies Matched Seller and LCH.Clearnet SA that it has a
CCM Client Transaction which corresponds to the Matched Buyer
Contract:
If a Matched Buyer that is a CCM notifies Matched Seller and LCH.Clearnet
SA that it has received a Bond or Loan from its CCM Client in respect of its
CCM Client Transaction pursuant to Section 9.8(i) (Alternative Procedures
Relating to Loans Not Delivered) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions, then such Bonds or Loans shall be deemed specified in a NOPS
Amendment Notice for the purposes of the Matched Contracts of the
Settlement Matched Pair and such NOPS Amendment Notice will be effective
notwithstanding the fact that it is deemed specified after the Physical
Settlement Date.

6.10

Failure to pay Physical Settlement Amount
If, in relation to any Settlement Matched Pair, a Matched Seller fails to pay all
or part of the Physical Settlement Amount (the Failed Amount) to the related
Matched Buyer, as designee for LCH.Clearnet SA, when due:
(a)

the relevant Matched Buyer may and the relevant Matched Seller shall,
as soon as practicable, give notice in writing to LCH.Clearnet SA, giving
all material details of the Settlement Matched Pair involved, the relevant
failure to pay and the Failed Amount;

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

36

Published on 14 April 2016

(b)

such failure to pay shall not constitute or be deemed to constitute a
breach of contract, event of default or failure to pay by LCH.Clearnet
SA under the CDS Clearing Documentation or otherwise (but such
failure to pay may, for the avoidance of doubt, constitute a breach of
the CDS Clearing Documentation and/or a Payment Failure for the
purposes of Article 4.3.1.1 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book by or with
respect to the relevant Clearing Member);

(c)

if the relevant Matched Buyer elects to notify LCH.Clearnet SA of such
failure to pay as contemplated above, such Matched Buyer may give
any such notice as soon as reasonably practicable after the occurrence
of such failure to pay by the relevant Matched Seller;

(d)

upon notice being given to LCH.Clearnet SA by the relevant Matched
Buyer, "Cash Settlement" between the relevant Matched Buyer and
LCH.Clearnet SA and the relevant Matched Seller and LCH.Clearnet
SA pursuant to the Partial Cash Settlement Terms (set out in Section
9.6 (Partial Cash Settlement Terms) of the 2014 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions, as amended by this CDS Clearing Supplement)
shall be deemed to apply to the relevant Physically Settled Cleared
Transactions of the Settlement Matched Pair with respect to the
Deliverable Obligations corresponding to the Failed Amount as though:

(e)

(i)

the Deliverable Obligations not Delivered were Undeliverable
Obligations;

(ii)

the Latest Permissible Physical Settlement Date were the date on
which the relevant Matched Buyer gave the relevant notice to
LCH.Clearnet SA;

(iii)

Indicative Quotations were not applicable;

(iv)

the relevant Matched Buyer were the Calculation Agent in respect
of the Physically Settled Cleared Transaction of the Settlement
Matched Pair to which it is a direct party; and

(v)

the Cash Settlement Amount determined in respect of the
Physically Settled Cleared Transaction between Matched Buyer
and LCH.Clearnet SA is also the Cash Settlement Amount in
respect of the corresponding Physically Settled Cleared
Transaction of the Settlement Matched Pair; and

LCH.Clearnet SA and the relevant Matched Buyer will settle the
relevant Physically Settled Cleared Transaction accordingly.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

37

Published on 14 April 2016

6.11

Partial Cash Settlement due to Impossibility or Illegality
Section 9.1 (Partial Cash Settlement Due to Impossibility or Illegality) of the
2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions shall apply to a Physically Settled
Transaction in the circumstances contemplated therein, provided that
Matched Buyer or Matched Seller notifies the other Clearing Member
comprised in the relevant Settlement Matched Pair and LCH.Clearnet SA
accordingly.
In such case, the related Physically Settled Cleared Transaction entered into
between LCH.Clearnet SA and the other Clearing Member comprised in the
relevant Settlement Matched Pair shall likewise be subject to "Cash
Settlement" pursuant to the Partial Cash Settlement Terms and Section 6.14
(Consequences of Cash Settlement).

6.12

Fallback to Cash Settlement in respect of Non-Deliverable Obligations
(a)

If Matched Buyer is not permitted to Deliver one or more Deliverable
Obligations (such Deliverable Obligations, the Non-Deliverable
Obligations) specified in the relevant Notice of Physical Settlement or
NOPS Amendment Notice to Matched Seller as designee for
LCH.Clearnet SA in the relevant Matched Pair because:
(i)

the amount of such Deliverable Obligation to be Delivered is less
than the relevant minimum denomination of such Deliverable
Obligation; or

(ii)

such Matched Seller is not a permitted transferee under such
Deliverable Obligation (and, in the case of this sub-section (ii),
such circumstance would not constitute an illegality or
impossibility outside the control of a relevant party for the
purposes of Section 9.1 (Partial Cash Settlement Due to
Impossibility or Illegality) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions),

then it shall notify the relevant Matched Seller and LCH.Clearnet SA (in
the form set out in Appendix VI hereto) accordingly describing in
reasonable detail the relevant circumstances.
With effect from such notification, such occurrence shall be treated, in
relation to each relevant Physically Settled Cleared Transaction, as an
illegality or impossibility outside the control of a relevant party for the
purpose of Section 9.1 (Partial Cash Settlement Due to Impossibility or
Illegality) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions.
(b)

Upon notice being given to LCH.Clearnet SA by Matched Buyer under
sub-paragraph (a) of this Section 6.12 (Fallback to Cash Settlement in

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

38

Published on 14 April 2016

respect of Non-Deliverable Obligations), "Cash Settlement" pursuant to
the Partial Cash Settlement Terms shall be deemed to apply to the
Matched Contracts in respect of the relevant Settlement Matched Pair
with respect to the Non-Deliverable Obligations as though the NonDeliverable Obligations were Undeliverable Obligations and the
provisions set out in Section 6.14 (Consequences of Cash Settlement)
of this CDS Clearing Supplement shall apply.
6.13

Cash Settlement Resulting from CCM Client Transaction of a Matched
Buyer that is a CCM
The following provision shall solely be applicable in respect of the
Matched Contracts of the Settlement Matched Pair if a Matched Buyer
that is a CCM notifies Matched Seller and LCH.Clearnet SA that it has a
CCM Client Transaction which corresponds to the Matched Buyer
Contract:
If a Matched Buyer that is a CCM notifies Matched Seller and LCH.Clearnet
SA that the corresponding CCM Client Transaction between such Matched
Buyer and its CCM Client is to be settled (in whole or in part) by Cash
Settlement pursuant to Section ‎9.1 (Partial Cash Settlement Due to
Impossibility or Illegality) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions or
Mandatory Provision 7.2 (Fallback to Cash Settlement in respect of NonDeliverable Obligations), then:

6.14

(a)

"Cash Settlement" shall be deemed to apply (in whole or in part, as
applicable) to the Matched Contracts of the Settlement Matched Pair
pursuant to the Partial Cash Settlement Terms and Section 6.14
(Consequences of Cash Settlement);

(b)

the 'Undeliverable Obligations' for the purposes of the Partial Cash
Settlement Terms shall be the Undeliverable Obligations or NonDeliverable Obligations in respect of the corresponding CCM Client
Transaction; and

(c)

the Cash Settlement Amount and the Cash Settlement Date in respect
of the Matched Contracts of the Settlement Matched Pair shall be the
same as the Cash Settlement Amount and the Cash Settlement Date
determined in respect of the corresponding CCM Client Transaction.

Consequences of Cash Settlement
If the circumstances set out in either Section 6.11 (Partial Cash Settlement
Due to Impossibility or Illegality) or paragraph (a) of Section 6.12 (Fallback to
Cash Settlement in respect of Non-Deliverable Obligations) or Section 6.13
(Cash Settlement Resulting from CCM Client Transaction of a Matched Buyer
that is a CCM) apply, then:

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

39

Published on 14 April 2016

6.15

(a)

the Latest Permissible Physical Settlement Date in respect of the
relevant Physically Settled Cleared Transaction will be deemed to be
the first date on which the relevant Matched Buyer or Matched Seller
effectively gave the relevant notice to both LCH.Clearnet SA and the
other Clearing Member as referred to in Section 6.11 (Partial Cash
Settlement Due to Impossibility or Illegality) or paragraph (a) of Section
6.12 (Fallback to Cash Settlement in respect of Non-Deliverable
Obligations) or Section 6.13 (Cash Settlement Resulting from CCM
Client Transaction of a Matched Buyer that is a CCM) above, as
applicable, (and for these purposes, Section 9.5 (Latest Permissible
Physical Settlement Date) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions shall not apply);

(b)

the relevant Matched Buyer will be deemed to be the Calculation Agent;

(c)

LCH.Clearnet SA and the relevant Matched Buyer will settle the
applicable Matched Buyer Contract, and LCH.Clearnet SA and the
relevant Matched Seller will settle the applicable Matched Seller
Contract, accordingly; and

(d)

where sub-paragraph (a)(ii) of Section 6.12 (Fallback to Cash
Settlement in respect of Non-Deliverable Obligations) applies,
Indicative Quotations shall not be applicable.

Amendments to Section 9.6(k) of 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions
Solely for the purposes of Section 6.11 (Partial Cash Settlement due to
Impossibility or Illegality), Section 6.12 (Fallback to Cash Settlement in
respect of Non-Deliverable Obligations), Section 6.13 (Cash Settlement
Resulting from CCM Client Transaction of a Matched Buyer that is a CCM)
and Section 6.14 (Consequences of Cash Settlement) of this CDS Clearing
Supplement, Section 9.6(k) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions is
amended by inserting the following at the beginning thereof:
"(A) For the purposes hereof, in addition to the requirements of Section
7.10, each firm Quotation shall:
(1)

be for a transaction with Matched Buyer (or its designee) (the
Relevant Buyer) pursuant to which the Relevant Buyer agrees to
Deliver the Deliverable Obligations to the Dealer submitting the
firm quotation (the Quoting Dealer), which transaction shall be
governed by documentation that is consistent with market
practice applicable to the sale and purchase of Deliverable
Obligations on the Valuation Date (which may be determined by
the relevant Credit Derivatives Determinations Committee),
including, without limitation, a representation that the Quoting

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

40

Published on 14 April 2016

Dealer has completed all "know your customer" or similar
requirements under all applicable laws, regulations and internal
compliance procedures relating to a transaction with the Relevant
Buyer and in respect of the Reference Entity;

(B)
6.16

(2)

be capable of acceptance by the Relevant Buyer (for such
purposes, each firm Quotation must, inter alia, be obtained from a
Dealer with whom the Relevant Buyer, in its sole and absolute
discretion, determines that it is able, in accordance with all its
internal compliance and policy requirements, to transact and to
Deliver the Deliverable Obligations) and be open for acceptance
by the relevant party for at least 30 minutes; and

(3)

be obtained on the basis that if the Relevant Buyer agrees to
Deliver the Deliverable Obligations to such Quoting Dealer on the
terms set forth herein, such Quoting Dealer agrees to pay the
settlement amount (calculated and payable for this purpose in
accordance with the relevant market standard documentation and
based on the price so quoted) that would be payable to the
Relevant Buyer for such Deliverable Obligations.

Otherwise,".

Subsequent Determination by the Credit Derivatives Determinations
Committee with respect to an Auction
If the Fallback Settlement Method applies in respect of a Cleared Transaction
and a subsequent resolution of the Credit Derivatives Determinations
Committee determines that Transaction Auction Settlement Terms will be
published, LCH.Clearnet SA shall have no obligation to create Settlement
Matched Pairs in accordance with Section 6.2 (Creation and Notification of
Settlement Matched Pairs).
Unless settlement has occurred with respect to any Settlement Matched Pairs
prior to such determination, any such Settlement Matched Pairs so created
shall be deemed not to have been created and any notices delivered in
connection with such Settlement Matched Pairs shall be deemed to be
ineffective.
LCH.Clearnet SA shall effect any relevant registrations in the TIW in order to
reflect the application of Auction Settlement as the Settlement Method in
respect of the relevant Cleared Transactions.

6.17

Physical Settlement Costs
If the Fallback Settlement Method applies in respect of a Cleared Transaction
and any amounts are payable in relation to any costs or expenses of Physical

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

41

Published on 14 April 2016

Settlement (including any costs or expenses relating to the delivery of any
Assets forming part of an Asset Package), then:
(a)

where such amount would otherwise be payable by LCH.Clearnet SA to
Matched Buyer or Matched Seller (the Recipient), such amount shall
be payable to the Recipient by the other party to the Matched Contract
who is not the Recipient, as designee to pay such amount on behalf of
LCH.Clearnet SA; and

(b)

where such amount would otherwise be payable to LCH.Clearnet SA by
Matched Buyer or Matched Seller (the Payer), such amount shall be
payable by the Payer to the other party to the Matched Contract who is
not the Payer, as designee to receive such amount on behalf of
LCH.Clearnet SA.

Any Matched Seller or Matched Buyer who is required to make any payment
as designee on behalf of LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to this Section 6.17 shall
not be entitled to any reimbursement from LCH.Clearnet SA in respect of
such amount.
Any Matched Seller or Matched Buyer who receives any payment pursuant to
this Section 6.17 shall not be obliged to remit to LCH.Clearnet SA any such
amount so received (without prejudice to any rights of LCH.Clearnet SA
where there is a failure to Deliver).
LCH.Clearnet SA shall not be liable to a Matched Buyer or a Matched Seller
for any of the costs and expenses of Physical Settlement of any Cleared
Transaction.
6.18

Representations and Agreements relating to Physical Settlement
(a)

Claims by Matched Seller against LCH.Clearnet SA in respect of
Obligations Delivered by Physical Settlement
If a Matched Seller pursues a claim against LCH.Clearnet SA under
Sections 11.2(a), (b), (c)(i) or (c)(iv) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions in respect of any obligations Delivered by way of Physical
Settlement of any Matched Seller Contract, then:
(i)

notwithstanding any provision of the 2014 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions to the contrary, LCH.Clearnet SA shall
only be liable to make payments to that Matched Seller in respect
of that claim to the extent of amounts recovered, including,
without limitation, any amounts recovered by way of set-off or
netting, by LCH.Clearnet SA from or on behalf of the related
Matched Buyer in respect of any corresponding claims under or in
connection with the Matched Buyer Contract (including, without

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

42

Published on 14 April 2016

limitation, following the declaration of an Event of Default in
respect of such Matched Buyer) and after deducting any costs
and expenses reasonably incurred by LCH.Clearnet in pursuing
such corresponding claims for recovery under or in connection
with the Matched Buyer Contract;

(b)

(ii)

LCH.Clearnet SA will use reasonable efforts to pursue any claim
it may have against the related Matched Buyer but,
notwithstanding Section 6.18(a)(i) above, LCH.Clearnet SA will, in
the pursuit of such claims, act as though its liability to Matched
Seller under the Matched Seller Contract was not limited or
restricted in any way; and

(iii)

references to indemnity provisions set out in Section 11.2(a),
11.2(b) and 11.2(c)(iv) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions shall, in connection with a Matched Buyer Contract, be
interpreted without regard to the limitations to Matched Seller's
recourse to LCH.Clearnet SA under the corresponding Matched
Seller Contract imposed by the provisions of this Section 6.18(a)
and such limitations shall not restrict a Matched Seller from
making a claim or raising a Dispute.

Right of Matched Seller to enforce against Matched Buyer
Without prejudice to paragraph (a) above, a Matched Seller shall be
entitled to enforce Sections 11.2(a), (b), (c)(i) and (c)(iv) of the 2014
ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions against the related Matched Buyer
in respect of any obligations Delivered by way of Physical Settlement of
any Physically Settled Cleared Transaction under the Contracts (Rights
of Third Parties) Act 1999 as though Matched Seller were party to the
relevant Matched Buyer Contract in place of LCH.Clearnet SA.

(c)

Satisfaction of Claim by Matched Buyer discharges Liabilities
owed to and by LCH.Clearnet SA
For the avoidance of doubt, if a Matched Buyer satisfies a claim made
by a Matched Seller directly against the relevant Matched Buyer under
Sections 11.2(a), (b), (c)(i) or (c)(iv) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions pursuant to the rights granted to such Matched Seller under
paragraph (b) above, such satisfaction shall also constitute complete
satisfaction and discharge of the corresponding liability of such
Matched Buyer to LCH.Clearnet SA and the corresponding liability of
LCH.Clearnet SA to such Matched Seller in respect of such claim.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

43

Published on 14 April 2016

(d)

Effect of Illegality or Tax or other Expense resulting from
Designation through Creation of Matched Pairs
The last sentence of Section 11.2(c)(iv) of the 2014 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions shall not operate so as to prevent LCH.Clearnet
SA from creating any Matched Pair in accordance with this CDS
Clearing Supplement, and LCH.Clearnet SA shall have no obligation to
grant any indemnity with respect to any Tax, loss or cost to any
Matched Buyer or Matched Seller thereunder.
If the circumstances contemplated at Section 11.2(c)(iv)(A) or (B) of the
2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions apply in respect of any
Physically Settled Cleared Transaction and any related Settlement
Matched Pair (in the case of (B), as notified by the Clearing Member
which is the non-designating party for such purpose to the other
Clearing Member comprised in the relevant Settlement Matched Pair
prior to the first Delivery Date), then an impossibility shall be deemed to
have occurred with respect to Physical Settlement of the relevant
Physically Settled Cleared Transactions, and Section 9.1 (Partial Cash
Settlement Due to Impossibility or Illegality) of the 2014 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions (as amended by this CDS Clearing Supplement)
shall apply.

6.19

Miscellaneous Provisions relating to Physical Settlement
(a)

Margin
For the avoidance of doubt, LCH.Clearnet SA will continue to call all
Margin and such Margin will remain due in relation to any Cleared
Transaction to which Physical Settlement applies until:

(b)

(i)

LCH.Clearnet SA has received a Physical Settlement Notification
from each Clearing Member;

(ii)

LCH.Clearnet SA has received a No Physical Settlement
Confirmation from each Clearing Member; or

(iii)

in each case, any related dispute is referred to and finally
resolved by arbitration or by litigation, as applicable, in
accordance with the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol, subject to
the provisions of Sections 8 and 9 of the Procedures.

Notification of Completion of Physical Settlement
Upon completion of Physical Settlement by the relevant Matched Pair
of a Physically Settled Cleared Transaction, Matched Buyer and
Matched Seller shall inform LCH.Clearnet SA as soon as reasonably
practicable and in any event before the date falling two Transaction

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

44

Published on 14 April 2016

Business Days following such completion (the Physical Settlement
Confirmation Deadline) by notice (a Physical Settlement
Confirmation) in the form set out at Appendix VII hereto.
(c)

Notification that Physical Settlement will not occur
If no Notice of Physical Settlement has been delivered within the
relevant time period permitted for such delivery in accordance with the
terms of the relevant Physically Settled Cleared Transaction and,
accordingly, Physical Settlement will not, under the terms of the
relevant Physically Settled Cleared Transaction, occur, Matched Buyer
and Matched Seller shall inform LCH.Clearnet SA as soon as
reasonably practicable thereafter and in any event before the date
falling two Transaction Business Days following the relevant date after
which delivery of a Notice of Physical Settlement is no longer permitted
in accordance with the terms of the relevant Physically Settled Cleared
Transaction (the No Physical Settlement Confirmation Deadline) by
notice (a No Physical Settlement Confirmation) in the form set out at
Appendix VIII hereto.

(d)

Dispute regarding Physical Settlement
If LCH.Clearnet SA receives a Physical Settlement Confirmation or No
Physical Settlement Confirmation from one relevant Matched Buyer or
Matched Seller only at or prior to the relevant Physical Settlement
Confirmation Deadline or No Physical Settlement Confirmation
Deadline, as the case may be, there shall be deemed to be a Dispute
with respect to the Physically Settled Cleared Transactions between
LCH.Clearnet SA and each relevant Clearing Member.

(e)

Asset Package Delivery
If Asset Package Delivery is applicable in respect of a Physically
Settled Cleared Transaction and an Asset to be delivered is a NonTransferable Instrument or Non-Financial Instrument, then the Asset
shall be deemed to be an amount of cash equal to the value
determined by the CDSClear Product Committee (which,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary, shall be the "Calculation
Agent" for the purposes of Section 8.15 (Asset Market Value) of the
2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions).

7.

DELIVERY OF NOTICES AND FALLBACKS

7.1

General Rules relating to Notices
(a)

Methods of Delivery and deemed Time of Delivery

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

45

Published on 14 April 2016

Subject to Section 7.2 (Oral Notices) and without prejudice to Section
1.38 (Requirements Regarding Notices) of the 2014 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions and the remaining provisions of the 2014 ISDA
Credit Derivatives Definitions (including, for the avoidance of doubt, in
relation to notices permitted to be given orally), any notice or other
communication in respect of any Cleared Transaction may be given in
any manner described below and will be deemed effective as indicated:
(i)

if delivered in person or by courier, on the date and at the time it
is delivered;

(ii)

if sent by facsimile transmission, on the date it is received by a
responsible employee of the recipient in legible form (it being
agreed that the burden of proving receipt will be on the sender
and will not be met by a transmission report generated by the
sender’s facsimile machine);

(iii)

if sent by certified or registered mail (airmail, if overseas) or the
equivalent (return receipt requested), on the date it is delivered or
its delivery is attempted; or

(iv)

if sent by electronic messaging system (including e-mail or any
other electronic access solution established by LCH.Clearnet SA
for such purpose), on the date it is received,

unless the date of that delivery (or attempted delivery) or that receipt,
as applicable, is not a Transaction Business Day or that communication
is delivered (or attempted) or received, as applicable, pursuant to the
above after 6.00 p.m. in the location of the recipient on a Transaction
Business Day, in which case that communication will be deemed given
and effective on the first following day that is a Transaction Business
Day.
(b)

Notices from or to LCH.Clearnet SA
Any such notice or communication given by LCH.Clearnet SA to a
Clearing Member or vice versa shall (except where delivered via a
relevant DTCC Notice Facility) be given to the address or number
previously specified in or previously notified for the relevant purpose in
accordance with the CDS Admissions Agreement or the Procedures.

(c)

Manual Notices between Clearing Members
Notices given by a Clearing Member to another Clearing Member
comprised in a relevant Matched Pair and which are not delivered via a
relevant DTCC Notice Facility shall be given to the address or number
notified by LCH.Clearnet SA to the deliveror pursuant to Sections 5.1

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

46

Published on 14 April 2016

(Creation and Notification of Restructuring Matched Pairs) or 6.2
(Creation and Notification of Settlement Matched Pairs).
Such notices shall only be deemed to be delivered effectively by
LCH.Clearnet SA through the relevant Clearing Member as its designee
as against the recipient where the address or number so notified by
LCH.Clearnet SA corresponds in all material respects to the address or
number, as applicable, specified by such recipient in or pursuant to the
CDS Admissions Agreement.
(d)

No Obligation on LCH.Clearnet SA to verify Signatories
LCH.Clearnet SA shall have no obligation to verify the authority of any
signatory of any notice delivered by any Clearing Member directly
pursuant to this Section 7 (Delivery of Notices and Fallbacks).

7.2

Oral Notices
Notwithstanding the provisions of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions, where, by way of exception as contemplated in this Section 7,
Credit Event Notices and Notices to Exercise Movement Option are to be
delivered directly to LCH.Clearnet SA (and not via a relevant DTCC Notice
Facility), such notices may not be delivered by telephone.

7.3

Credit Event Notices and NEMOs
(a)

Credit Event Notices and NEMOs to be given via DTCC
Credit Event Notices and Notices to Exercise Movement Option shall
be delivered by way of the relevant DTCC Notice Facility, save if and as
expressly stated to the contrary in this Section 7 or expressly agreed by
LCH.Clearnet SA. The deemed time of delivery of any such notices
shall be as set out in the DTCC Rules from time to time.

(b)

Credit Event Notices and NEMOs delivered in respect of CCM
Client Transaction
If a Matched Buyer or a Matched Seller that is a CCM receives a valid
Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise Movement Option from its
CCM Client in respect of a CCM Client Transaction by way of the
relevant DTCC Notice Facility, such notice shall be deemed also to be
a Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise Movement Option (as
applicable) for the purposes of the corresponding Matched Contracts of
the Settlement Matched Pair.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

47

Published on 14 April 2016

7.4

Notification of DTCC Failure and Resolution
(a)

LCH.Clearnet SA to notify Clearing Members of DTCC Failure
Event
If DTCC notifies LCH.Clearnet SA or LCH.Clearnet SA otherwise
becomes aware that the relevant DTCC Notice Facility is or will be
unavailable to process all or substantially all Credit Event Notices or
Notices to Exercise Movement Option, as applicable, with respect to a
Restructuring Credit Event in a timely manner (a DTCC Failure Event),
then LCH.Clearnet SA will, as soon as reasonably practicable and in
any event within one hour of such notification or of LCH.Clearnet SA
becoming aware of such non-availability, as applicable, notify all
relevant Clearing Members of such occurrence, including the time at
which such failure occurred (or, if LCH.Clearnet SA is not notified of
such time by or on behalf of DTCC, the time at which LCH.Clearnet
received the relevant notification from or on behalf of DTCC or
becomes aware of the relevant non-availability) (the DTCC Failure
Event Time). LCH.Clearnet SA shall also publish such information on
its Website as soon as reasonably practicable after becoming aware of
a DTCC Failure Event.

(b)

LCH.Clearnet SA to notify Clearing Members of Resolution of
DTCC Failure Event
If, subsequent to a DTCC Failure Event, DTCC (or a third party
designated under the DTCC Rules from time to time) notifies
LCH.Clearnet SA that a DTCC Failure Event previously notified to
Clearing Members is no longer in effect, LCH.Clearnet SA will as soon
as reasonably practicable notify all relevant Clearing Members
accordingly, including the time (the DTCC Resolution Time) (which
must be no earlier than 30 minutes following the time of such
notification) at which such DTCC Failure Event is deemed to have been
resolved and following which the relevant DTCC Notice Facility is
operative for the purposes of delivery of relevant notices relating to
Restructuring Cleared Transactions (including transactions in respect of
which notices may have been delivered directly pursuant to Section 7.5
(Consequences of DTCC failure). LCH.Clearnet SA shall also publish
such information on its Website as soon as reasonably practicable after
notifying Clearing Members that the DTCC Failure Event is no longer in
effect and of the DTCC Resolution Time.

(c)

Notices given prior to DTCC Resolution Time to be confirmed to
DTCC
LCH.Clearnet SA and, to the extent so requested by LCH.Clearnet SA,
each Clearing Member shall, as soon as reasonably practicable and to

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

48

Published on 14 April 2016

the extent permitted by DTCC, provide or confirm to DTCC details of
any relevant notices (in the case of a Clearing Member, being any
relevant notices delivered directly by such Clearing Member) given in
respect of Cleared Transactions prior to the DTCC Resolution Time, so
as to permit delivery of subsequent notices in respect of such Cleared
Transactions via the relevant DTCC Notice Facility.
7.5

Consequences of DTCC Failure
From (and including) the DTCC Failure Event Time to (but excluding) the
DTCC Resolution Time:
(a)

Section 7.3(a) (Credit Event Notices and NEMOs to be given via
DTCC) shall not apply and accordingly Credit Event Notices and
Notices to Exercise Movement Option shall be delivered directly (and
not via the relevant DTCC Notice Facility);

(b)

any notice delivered via the relevant DTCC Notice Facility prior to the
DTCC Failure Event Time will be valid and will not be affected by such
DTCC Failure Event; and

(c)

any notice delivered or purported to be delivered via the relevant DTCC
Notice Facility at or following the DTCC Failure Event Time but prior to
the DTCC Resolution Time will not be valid and effective.

Section 7.3(a) (Credit Event Notices and NEMOs to be given via DTCC) shall
apply with effect from the DTCC Resolution Time and, accordingly, any notice
thereafter delivered or purported to be delivered directly (and not via the
relevant DTCC Notice Facility) will not be valid and effective.
7.6

Clearing Member Communications Failure Event
(a)

Right to deliver Notices manually following Clearing Member
Communications Failure Event
If a Clearing Member is affected by a significant communications or
information technology failure resulting in it being impossible or
impractical for such Clearing Member to deliver any Credit Event Notice
in relation to a Restructuring Credit Event or any Notice to Exercise
Movement Option via a relevant DTCC Notice Facility (a Clearing
Member Communications Failure Event) it may, notwithstanding
Section 7.3(a) (Credit Event Notices and NEMOs to be given via
DTCC) deliver Credit Event Notices and Notices to Exercise Movement
Option directly (and not via the relevant DTCC Notice Facility).

(b)

Clearing Member to notify LCH.Clearnet SA of Occurrence of
Clearing Member Communications Failure Event

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

49

Published on 14 April 2016

Following the occurrence of a Clearing Member Communications
Failure Event, the affected Clearing Member shall, within one hour of
delivering any Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise Movement
Option directly, deliver to LCH.Clearnet SA a notice (in the form set out
at Appendix IX hereto) signed by a senior officer (such as a managing
director or equivalent) of such Clearing Member certifying that it is
affected by a Clearing Member Communications Failure Event (or, if
such Clearing Member is unable to deliver such notice in writing, orally
by telephone).
LCH.Clearnet SA shall notify all Clearing Members accordingly as soon
as reasonably practicable and in any event within one hour of receipt of
any such notification.
(c)

Notices to Clearing Member affected by Clearing Member
Communications Failure Event
For the avoidance of doubt, Section 7.3(a) (Credit Event Notices and
NEMOs to be given via DTCC) shall continue to apply in respect of
notices given to the affected Clearing Member by Clearing Members
comprised in any Matched Pair in respect of which the affected
Clearing Member is a Matched Buyer or Matched Seller.

(d)

Notification of Resolution of Clearing Member Communications
Failure Event
As soon as reasonably practicable upon a Clearing Member ceasing to
be subject to a Clearing Member Communications Failure Event, it shall
notify LCH.Clearnet SA accordingly (in the form set out at Appendix X
hereto) and thereupon Section 7.3(a) (Credit Event Notices and
NEMOs to be given via DTCC) shall apply and, accordingly, any Credit
Event Notice or Notice to Exercise Movement Option thereafter
delivered or purported to be delivered directly (and not via the relevant
DTCC Notice Facility) will not be valid and effective.

(e)

Clearing Member Duty to Mitigate
A Clearing Member which is subject to a Clearing Member
Communications Failure Event shall use reasonable endeavours to
mitigate the operational impact on other Clearing Members and
LCH.Clearnet SA of any Clearing Member Communications Failure
Event, to cure such Clearing Member Communications Failure Event as
soon as possible and to ensure that the circumstances giving rise to the
relevant Clearing Member Communications Failure Event do not recur.

(f)

Breach by Clearing Member does not Invalidate Valid Notices

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

50

Published on 14 April 2016

Without prejudice to any other rights or remedy of LCH.Clearnet SA,
any breach by a Clearing Member of the provisions of this Section 7.6
shall not cause any Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise
Movement Option delivered otherwise than in accordance with the
relevant Restructuring Cleared Transaction, which would otherwise be
valid and effective, to be invalid or ineffective.
7.7

Clearing Member Acknowledgements
(a)

Duty to deliver Clearing Member Acknowledgements
Each Clearing Member shall notify LCH.Clearnet SA or deliver a copy
to LCH.Clearnet SA of any notice delivered or received by such
Clearing Member to or from another Clearing Member comprised in a
Matched Pair, including, without limitation, any Credit Event Notice or
Notice to Exercise Movement Option which was delivered or received
directly (and not via a DTCC Notice Facility) pursuant to Sections 7.5
(Consequences of DTCC Failure) or 7.6 (Clearing Member
Communications Failure Event), and which such Clearing Member
asserts or acknowledges was effective for the purposes of this CDS
Clearing Supplement and the relevant Cleared Transactions (such
notification, or delivery of such copy, in respect of any relevant notice, a
Clearing Member Acknowledgement) by no later than 6.00 p.m. on:
(i)

in the case of a Notice of Physical Settlement or NOPS
Amendment Notice or Asset Package Notice, the date falling two
Transaction Business Days following the date on which such
notice was sent; or

(ii)

in the case of any other notice, on the last date on which such
notice could validly be sent,

(in each case, the Notice Acknowledgement Deadline).
(b)

Clearing Member Acknowledgement received from both Clearing
Members
Where
LCH.Clearnet
SA
receives
a
Clearing
Member
Acknowledgement in respect of any notice from both relevant Clearing
Members comprised in a Matched Pair at or prior to the Notice
Acknowledgement Deadline, LCH.Clearnet SA shall perform its
obligations in respect of the relevant Cleared Transactions in
accordance with and subject to the remaining provisions of the CDS
Clearing Documentation.

(c)

Clearing Member Acknowledgement received from one Clearing
Member

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

51

Published on 14 April 2016

Where
LCH.Clearnet
SA
receives
a
Clearing
Member
Acknowledgement in respect of any notice from one relevant Clearing
Member only at or prior to the Notice Acknowledgement Deadline, the
provisions of Section 7.11 (Disputes as to Notices) shall apply and
LCH.Clearnet SA and each relevant Clearing Member shall perform
their obligations in respect of the relevant Cleared Transactions in
accordance with and subject to the remaining provisions of the CDS
Clearing Documentation and the terms of any final resolution of the
relevant dispute, as agreed between the relevant parties or as
determined by arbitration or by litigation, as applicable, in accordance
with the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol, subject to the provisions of
Sections 8 and 9 of the Procedures.
In such case, LCH.Clearnet SA shall notify the Clearing Member from
which it has not received a Clearing Member Acknowledgement of the
asserted delivery or, as applicable, receipt of the relevant notice (in the
case of a Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise Movement Option,
through the reports referred to at Section 5.6 (Reports)).
(d)

No Clearing Member Acknowledgement received
Where LCH.Clearnet SA does not receive Clearing Member
Acknowledgement or confirmation of valid delivery in respect of any
notice from either Clearing Member in the relevant Matched Pair on or
prior to the relevant Notice Acknowledgement Deadline, the rights and
obligations of LCH.Clearnet SA as against each relevant Clearing
Member, and vice versa, shall be construed as if no such notice had
been given.

(e)

Consequences of no Clearing Member Acknowledgement being
received
Where sub-section (d) above is applicable, the following provisions
shall apply:
(i)

Notices other than Notices of Physical Settlement, NOPS
Amendment Notices and Asset Package Notices
Save in the case of a Notice of Physical Settlement, a NOPS
Amendment Notice or an Asset Package Notice, an amount shall
be payable between the Clearing Members equal to the
difference between the value of the Matched Buyer Contract had
Clearing Member Acknowledgement been given to LCH.Clearnet
SA on a timely basis and the value of such contract in the
absence of such acknowledgement; such difference in value shall
be determined as of the earlier of the day on which notice is given
by any relevant Clearing Member that such amount is due and

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

52

Published on 14 April 2016

payable and, in the case of a Credit Event Notice or Notice to
Exercise Movement Option, the eighth Transaction Business Day
following the Auction Settlement Date, no Auction Announcement
Date or Auction Cancellation Date, as applicable or otherwise the
eighth Transaction Business Day following the last day on which
such notice would validly have been delivered, by reference to
the relevant Auction Settlement Amount or end of day contributed
prices, in each case if available.
(ii)

Notices of Physical Settlement, NOPS Amendment Notices and
Asset Package Notices
Where the relevant notice is a Notice of Physical Settlement, a
NOPS Amendment Notice or an Asset Package Notice, the
relevant Clearing Members shall acquire rights as against the
other as though party to a bilateral credit default swap transaction
on the terms of the related Matched Buyer Contract (including,
without limitation, as to the occurrence of an Event Determination
Date) and the Notice of Physical Settlement, NOPS Amendment
Notice or Asset Package Notice, as applicable shall be deemed
to have been given in respect of such transaction. Any resulting
payment shall be due and payable two Transaction Business
Days following the giving of a notice that such amount is due and
payable.

In each case, the relevant Clearing Members shall have enforcement
rights as against each other pursuant to the Contracts (Rights of Third
Parties) Act 1994 in respect of any resulting payments and deliveries;
LCH.Clearnet SA shall have no liability in respect thereof.
7.8

Failure to notify Matched Pairs
Notwithstanding Section 5.3 (Triggering of Restructuring Cleared
Transactions) and 6.5 (Notices of Physical Settlement), if LCH.Clearnet SA
does not notify the relevant Clearing Members of Restructuring Matched
Pairs created pursuant to Section 5.1 (Creation and Notification of
Restructuring Matched Pairs) on or prior to the RMP Notification Deadline or
Settlement Matched Pairs and related information specified in Section 6.2
(Creation and Notification of Settlement Matched Pairs) by the SMP
Notification Deadline, as applicable:
(a)

the relevant Clearing Members may deliver Credit Event Notices,
Notices to Exercise Movement Option, Notices of Physical Settlement
or NOPS Amendment Notices to LCH.Clearnet SA, and vice versa;

(b)

the relevant Cleared Transactions shall be subject to Physical
Settlement in accordance with their terms; and

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

53

Published on 14 April 2016

(c)

the provisions of Sections 2.4 (Amendments to 2014 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions), 6 (Physical Settlement) and 8 (Matched Pair
Designations and Notices) shall not apply and the terms of this CDS
Clearing Supplement shall be construed accordingly.

For such purpose, Section 7.3 (Certain Notices to be given via DTCC) shall
not apply in respect of notices given by the affected Clearing Members and
accordingly Credit Event Notices and Notices to Exercise Movement Option
shall be delivered directly (and not via the relevant DTCC Notice Facility).
7.9

Failure to notify Matching Information
If LCH.Clearnet SA notifies relevant Clearing Members of Restructuring
Matched Pairs created pursuant to Section 5.1 (Creation and Notification of
Restructuring Matched Pairs) on or prior to the RMP Notification Deadline,
but does not notify DTCC of relevant Matching Information on or prior to the
RMP Notification Deadline, then Section 7.3(a) (Credit Event Notices and
NEMOs to be given via DTCC) shall not apply in respect of notices to be
delivered by affected Clearing Members and accordingly Credit Event Notices
and Notices to Exercise Movement Option shall be delivered directly as
between Clearing Members (as designees of LCH.Clearnet SA) (and not via
the relevant DTCC Notice Facility).

7.10

Uncertain Delivery
(a)

Manual Notice permitted if Delivery of Notice in DTCC uncertain
Notwithstanding Section 7.3(a) (Credit Event Notices and NEMOs to be
given via DTCC), where such notices are permitted to be delivered by
means other than the relevant DTCC Notice Facility pursuant to this
Section 7, and a CDS Clearing Member is uncertain as to whether or
not a Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise Movement Option (as
applicable) it (or, in the case of a CCM, its CCM Client) attempted to
deliver via a DTCC Notice Facility has:
(i)

actually been delivered; or

(ii)

was delivered prior to the DTCC Failure Time,

that CDS Clearing Member shall be entitled to deliver such a notice
directly to any Clearing Member comprised in a relevant Matched Pair
(as designee of LCH.Clearnet SA) specifying that such notice is only to
be effective to the extent that the other purported notice is not effective.
(b)

Details to be provided of Uncertain Notice
If a Clearing Member delivers a manual notice pursuant to sub-section
(a) (Manual Notice permitted if Delivery of Notice in DTCC uncertain)

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

54

Published on 14 April 2016

above, such Clearing Member shall be required to provide (together
with such notice) sufficient details of the notice attempted to be given
by way of the relevant DTCC Notice Facility so as to allow the other
Clearing Member and LCH.Clearnet SA to identify the communication
concerned.
(c)

DTCC Notice delivered successfully
If the first Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise Movement Option
(as applicable) to which the manual notice delivered pursuant to subsection (a) (Manual Notice permitted if Delivery of Notice in DTCC
uncertain) above relates was actually delivered successfully, any
subsequent Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise Movement Option
delivered shall be deemed not to have been delivered.

7.11

Disputes as to Notices
If any Clearing Member comprised in a Matched Pair where one such party is
acting as designee of LCH.Clearnet SA disputes the effective delivery in
accordance with the terms of the relevant Cleared Transactions of any notice
delivered directly (and not via a relevant DTCC Notice Facility) in accordance
with this Section 7 (and for such purposes, a dispute between the relevant
Clearing Member and LCH.Clearnet SA shall be deemed to have arisen if
LCH.Clearnet SA receives a Clearing Member Acknowledgement from one
relevant Clearing Member only in respect of any such notice as contemplated
at Section 7.7(c) (Clearing Member Acknowledgement received from one
Clearing Member)):
(a)

LCH.Clearnet SA shall be entitled in accordance with the Procedures to
calculate and call for Margin with respect to each such Clearing
Member on the basis of the maximum requirement for such Clearing
Member that could result from any foreseeable outcome of such
dispute;

(b)

following final resolution of such dispute by arbitration or by litigation, as
applicable, in accordance with the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol,
subject to the provisions of Sections 8 and 9 of the Procedures, the
Clearing Members comprised in the relevant Matched Pair shall take
such actions with respect to the Cleared Transactions the subject of
such dispute as LCH.Clearnet SA determines appropriate to give effect
to any relevant binding resolution; and

(c)

without prejudice to its obligations upon final resolution of the dispute,
pending final resolution of any such dispute, LCH.Clearnet SA shall not
be obliged to take any step pursuant to the terms of the relevant
Cleared Transactions which would be required to have been taken by it
had the relevant notice been validly delivered.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

55

Published on 14 April 2016

Each relevant Clearing Member must promptly notify LCH.Clearnet SA of any
such disputes (in the form set out at Appendix XI hereto).
8.

MATCHED PAIR DESIGNATIONS AND NOTICES

8.1

Creation of Matched Pairs
LCH.Clearnet SA will create Matched Pairs where required to do so pursuant
to Section 5.1 (Creation and Notification of Restructuring Matched Pairs) or
6.2 (Creation and Notification of Settlement Matched Pairs) using a matching
procedure that matches CDS Sellers with CDS Buyers pursuant to an
algorithm incorporating the following principles:
(a)

the procedure seeks to create Matched Pairs between the same
Clearing Member to the extent it is possible to do so before creating
Matched Pairs between different Clearing Members and, for this
purpose, in the context of CCMs, the procedure will create Matched
Pairs separately for CCMs and their CCM Clients (individually or
together, depending on whether the CCM Client is a CCM Individual
Segregated Account Client or a CCM Omnibus Segregated Account
Client, as applicable) and Clearing Member will be construed
accordingly;

(b)

the procedure seeks to minimise the number of Matched Pairs (and
accordingly, largest positions will be matched first);

(c)

each Matched Pair will, to the extent possible, have an aggregate
Restructuring Matched Pair Amount or, as applicable, Settlement
Matched Pair Delivery Amount, which is an integral multiple of Euro
1,000,000, subject to a maximum of Euro 50,000,000; and

(d)

LCH.Clearnet SA will allocate a Restructuring Matched Pair Amount or,
as applicable, Settlement Matched Pair Delivery Amount to each
Matched Pair such that:
(i)

the sum of all Restructuring Matched Pair Amounts or, as
applicable, Settlement Matched Pair Delivery Amounts, of each
CDS Buyer is equal to the aggregate Floating Rate Payer
Calculation Amounts in respect of all (A) Initial Single Name
Cleared Transactions, Restructuring Cleared Transactions
(created following the occurrence of a previous Restructuring
Credit Event), Spin-off Single Name Cleared Transactions and
Resulting Single Name Cleared Transactions or (B) Cleared
Transactions in respect of which the Fallback Settlement
Method applies to the CDS Type for such Cleared Transaction,
as applicable, to which such CDS Buyer is a party; and

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

56

Published on 14 April 2016

(ii)

the sum of all Restructuring Matched Pair Amounts or, as
applicable, Settlement Matched Pair Delivery Amounts, of each
CDS Seller is equal to the aggregate Floating Rate Payer
Calculation Amounts in respect of (A) Initial Single Name
Cleared Transactions, Restructuring Cleared Transactions
(created following the occurrence of a previous Restructuring
Credit Event), Spin-off Single Name Cleared Transactions and
Resulting Single Name Cleared Transactions or (B) Cleared
Transactions in respect of which the Fallback Settlement
Method applies to the CDS Type for such Cleared Transaction,
as applicable, to which such CDS Seller is a party.

Notwithstanding the above, if the Fallback Settlement Method applies in
relation to a Cleared Transaction and a Restructuring Credit Event, the
Restructuring Matched Pairs previously created pursuant to Section 5.1
(Creation of Restructuring Matched Pairs) and this Section 8.1 shall be
deemed to be Settlement Matched Pairs created in accordance with Section
6.2 (Creation and Notification of Settlement Matched Pairs) and
LCH.Clearnet SA shall have no obligation to create Settlement Matched Pairs
in respect of such Cleared Transaction.
8.2

Registration of new Cleared Transactions and Removal of original
Cleared Transactions
To the extent that any Cleared Transaction created pursuant to Section 5.2
(Creation of Restructuring Cleared Transactions) or Section 6.3 (Physically
Settled Cleared Transactions) is not automatically registered in accordance
with the DTCC Rules, LCH.Clearnet SA shall register such new Cleared
Transaction in the TIW in accordance with the DTCC Rules prior to 6.00 p.m.
on the date on which the RMP Notification Deadline or SMP Notification
Deadline (as applicable) falls. In respect of CCMs and CCM Clients only,
such registration by LCH.Clearnet shall also result in the automatic
registration of any amendments made to the corresponding CCM Client
Transactions.
In addition, LCH.Clearnet SA will, on behalf of the relevant Clearing Member,
send an “Exit” message to the TIW in accordance with the DTCC Rules to
terminate and remove the corresponding original Cleared Transaction(s) from
the TIW prior to 6.00 p.m. on the date on which the RMP Notification
Deadline or SMP Notification Deadline (as applicable) falls.

8.3

Matched Buyer Contracts
In respect of each Matched Buyer Contract which is the subject of a Matched
Pair, LCH.Clearnet SA, pursuant to Section 11.2(c)(iv) of the 2014 ISDA
Credit Derivatives Definitions (amended as set out at Section 2.4
(Amendments to 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions)), as designator,

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

57

Published on 14 April 2016

shall be deemed to have designated Matched Seller in such Matched Pair as
its designee:
(a)

to receive on its behalf from, and to deliver on its behalf to, Matched
Buyer of the Matched Pair any applicable notices or certifications in
accordance with the terms of the applicable Cleared Transaction (other
than notices required to be delivered via a DTCC Notice Facility);

(b)

other than in respect of the Physical Settlement Amount relating to the
settlement of Non-DVP Obligations as referred to in Section 6.6
(Delivery of Non-DVP Obligations), to pay on behalf of LCH.Clearnet
SA any applicable Physical Settlement Amount in accordance with the
terms of the applicable Physically Settled Cleared Transaction, and to
pay to, and to receive from, Matched Buyer of the Matched Pair, in
each case, on behalf of LCH.Clearnet SA, any other amounts due and
payable (including costs and expenses of settlement due under the
applicable Matched Buyer Contract); and

(c)

to take Delivery, on behalf of LCH.Clearnet SA, of Deliverable
Obligations from Matched Buyer of the Settlement Matched Pair.

The relevant Matched Seller shall be deemed to have accepted such
designation upon notification of the relevant Matched Pair created and
notified in accordance with the provisions of this CDS Clearing Supplement.
8.4

Matched Seller Contracts
In respect of each Matched Seller Contract which is the subject of a Matched
Pair, LCH.Clearnet SA, pursuant to Section 11.2(c)(iv) of the 2014 ISDA
Credit Derivatives Definitions (as amended pursuant to Section 2.4
(Amendments to 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions) above), as
designator, shall be deemed to have designated Matched Buyer in such
Matched Pair as its designee:
(a)

to receive on its behalf from, and to deliver on its behalf to, Matched
Seller of the Matched Pair any applicable notices or certifications in
accordance with the terms of the applicable Cleared Transaction (other
than notices required to be delivered via a DTCC Notice Facility);

(b)

other than in respect of any Physical Settlement Amount relating to the
settlement of Non-DVP Obligations as referred to in Section 6.6
(Delivery of Non-DVP Obligations), to receive on behalf of
LCH.Clearnet SA the applicable Physical Settlement Amount in
accordance with the terms of any applicable Physically Settled Cleared
Transaction, and to pay to, and to receive from, Matched Seller of the
Matched Pair, in each case, on behalf of LCH.Clearnet SA, any other

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

58

Published on 14 April 2016

amounts due and payable (including costs and expenses of settlement
due under the Matched Seller Contract); and
(c)

to Deliver, on behalf of LCH.Clearnet SA, the relevant Deliverable
Obligations to Matched Seller of the Settlement Matched Pair.

The relevant Matched Buyer shall be deemed to have accepted such
designation upon notification of the relevant Matched Pair created and
notified in accordance with the provisions of this CDS Clearing Supplement.
8.5

Exercise of Rights
In relation to each Matched Pair:

8.6

(a)

the exercise of any rights by Matched Buyer against LCH.Clearnet SA
under a Matched Buyer Contract (other than the right to give any notice
via DTCC Notice Facility) shall be deemed to constitute the exercise of
equal and simultaneous rights by LCH.Clearnet SA against Matched
Seller under the Matched Seller Contract of the relevant Matched Pair;
and

(b)

the exercise of any rights by Matched Seller against LCH.Clearnet SA
under a Matched Seller Contract (other than a right to give notice under
a DTCC Notice Facility) shall be deemed to constitute the exercise of
equal and simultaneous rights by LCH.Clearnet SA against Matched
Buyer under the Matched Buyer Contract of the relevant Matched Pair.

Clearing Member matched with Itself
(a)

Notices
In the event that:
(i)

Matched Buyer and Matched Seller of a Matched Pair pursuant to
this Section 8 (Matched Pair Designations and Notices) is the
same Clearing Member; and

(ii)

notwithstanding Section 7.3(a) (Credit Event Notices and NEMOs
to be given via DTCC), a notice or certification is permitted to be
delivered in respect of one of the Cleared Transactions forming
part of such Matched Pair by means other than the relevant
DTCC Notice Facility pursuant to Section 7 (Delivery of Notices
and Fallbacks),

such notice shall be deemed to be given upon such Clearing Member
sending a Clearing Member Acknowledgement to LCH.Clearnet SA
pursuant to Section 7.7(a) (Duty to deliver Clearing Member
Acknowledgements) above in respect of such notice and Section 7.7(b)
LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

59

Published on 14 April 2016

(Clearing Member Acknowledgement received from both Clearing
Members) shall apply.
(b)

Payments and Deliveries
In the event that:
(iii)

Matched Buyer and Matched Seller of a Matched Pair pursuant to
this Section 8 (Matched Pair Designations and Notices) is the
same Clearing Member; and

(iv)

such Clearing Member is required to make a payment or delivery
pursuant to the terms of one of the Cleared Transactions forming
part of such Matched Pair as designate of LCH.Clearnet SA,

such payment or delivery shall be deemed to have been made upon
such Clearing Member giving notice to LCH.Clearnet SA. in accordance
with Section 7.1 (General Rules relating to Notices) that such payment
or delivery should be deemed to have been made for the purposes of
such Cleared Transaction.
8.7

Notices
In relation to each Matched Pair:
(a)

where Matched Buyer validly delivers or serves any notice to Matched
Seller as designee of LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with the terms of
a relevant Matched Buyer Contract, such notice shall additionally be
effective as a notice given by such Matched Buyer as designee of
LCH.Clearnet SA to Matched Seller for the purposes of the relevant
Matched Seller Contract; and

(b)

where Matched Seller validly delivers or serves any notice to Matched
Buyer as designee of LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with the terms of
a relevant Matched Seller Contract, such notice shall additionally be
effective as a notice given by such Matched Seller as designee of
LCH.Clearnet SA to Matched Buyer for the purposes of the relevant
Matched Buyer Contract.

9.

SELF-REFERENCING TRANSACTIONS

9.1

Occurrence of Self Referencing Transaction
(a)

Duty to notify
In respect of a Single Name Cleared Transaction that is registered in
the House Account Structure of a Clearing Member, the relevant
Clearing Member shall, unless prohibited from so doing by applicable

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

60

Published on 14 April 2016

law or its internal policies, notify LCH.Clearnet SA as soon as
reasonably practicable if:

(b)

(i)

such Clearing Member is or consolidates or amalgamates with, or
merges into, or transfers all or substantially all of its assets to, the
Reference Entity in relation to such Single Name Cleared
Transaction, or enters into any agreement in respect of any of the
foregoing;

(ii)

such Clearing Member and the Reference Entity in relation to
such Single Name Cleared Transaction are or become Affiliates;
or

(iii)

in respect of a Restructuring Cleared Transaction, such Clearing
Member is or becomes the Reference Entity in relation to such
Restructuring Cleared Transaction as a result of the occurrence
of the relevant Restructuring Credit Event.

Auction of Affected Transactions
Following receipt of any such notification, LCH.Clearnet SA will, unless
otherwise agreed in consultation with the CDS Default Management
Group and the affected Clearing Member, and with the assistance of
the CDS Default Management Group, conduct an auction process to
liquidate the relevant Single Name Cleared Transaction and enter into
an equivalent Single Name Cleared Transaction with a Clearing
Member other than the affected Clearing Member.

(c)

Alternative Action
If LCH.Clearnet SA, after consultation with the CDS Default
Management Group and the affected Clearing Member, believes that
the circumstances are such that an auction may be inappropriate,
LCH.Clearnet SA may take such other action in consultation with the
Risk Committee as it considers reasonably necessary to achieve its
primary aim in these circumstances of addressing the risks resulting
from a Clearing Member being party to a Self Referencing Transaction
where the Reference Entity is that Clearing Member, while
endeavouring, as far as is reasonably practicable in the circumstances
without prejudicing the achievement of the primary aim, to avoid
materially and adversely affecting the relevant Clearing Member.

(d)

Compression of Affected Transactions prior to Auction
Prior to determining the Single Name Cleared Transactions to be
subject to any auction pursuant to paragraph (b) above, where the
affected Clearing Member acts as CDS Buyer and CDS Seller in

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

61

Published on 14 April 2016

respect of fungible Single Name Cleared Transactions, LCH.Clearnet
SA shall, in consultation with the CDS Default Management Committee
as to the transaction sizes of resulting Single Name Cleared
Transactions to be auctioned, compress such Single Name Cleared
Transactions up to the extent that, following such compression, Single
Name Cleared Transactions representing in aggregate the Open
Position of the affected Clearing Member in respect of such fungible
Single Name Cleared Transactions are recognised.
For these purposes, LCH.Clearnet SA will provide the affected Clearing
Member with a report detailing the Single Name Cleared Transactions
to be subject to such compression.
The affected Clearing Member will be deemed to have submitted a
request to LCH.Clearnet SA prior to 5.00 p.m. on the day on which
LCH.Clearnet SA carries out the compression for ad hoc compression
of such Single Name Cleared Transactions in accordance with Section
5 of the Procedures and such compression shall be carried out in
accordance with Section 5 of the Procedures on the basis of such
deemed request for ad hoc compression.
(e)

Auction Terms
LCH.Clearnet SA shall determine the timing and other particular
characteristics of each such auction in consultation with the CDS
Default Management Committee, including determining the size of the
bid/offer spread and/or of the Single Name Cleared Transactions to be
auctioned, whether one or more such auctions are to be held and the
timing and structure of such auctions (including the frequency at which
firm bid and firm offer quotations will be requested and the transaction
size (that is, the Floating Rate Payer Calculation Amount)).
Clearing Members (excluding the affected Clearing Member) may be
requested, and will not be required, to submit actionable quotations in
such an auction.

(f)

Creation of New Transactions and Termination of Existing
Transactions
LCH.Clearnet SA will enter into Single Name Cleared Transactions with
Clearing Members, other than the affected Clearing Member, in the
amount and at the prices determined pursuant to such auction.
At the time of entering into such Single Name Cleared Transactions,
the corresponding Single Name Cleared Transactions of the affected
Clearing Member shall be terminated by reference to the prices at

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

62

Published on 14 April 2016

which LCH.Clearnet SA enters into such new Single Name Cleared
Transactions.
The affected Clearing Member, LCH.Clearnet SA and the other
Clearing Members, as applicable, shall submit such information as is
required in accordance with the DTCC Rules so as to reflect the terms
of any reduction to, termination of or entry into of any Single Name
Cleared Transaction as a result of any such auction(s).
(g)

Costs of LCH.Clearnet SA
The affected Clearing Member will bear the cost of the associated
bid/offer spread and any reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses
of LCH.Clearnet SA in connection with such auction(s) and its entering
into such new Single Name Cleared Transactions.

(h)

LCH.Clearnet SA to determine Amounts Owed and Payable
Amounts owed by the affected Clearing Member to, or receivable by it
from, LCH.Clearnet SA in connection with any such auction shall be
determined by LCH.Clearnet SA.
In addition, any amounts payable (and the dates of settlement with
respect thereto) relating to any Single Name Cleared Transactions
created, reduced or terminated pursuant to any such auction shall be
determined by LCH.Clearnet SA.

9.2

Occurrence of Self Referencing Transactions in respect of Clients
(a)

Notification
In respect of a Single Name Cleared Transaction registered in the
Client Account Structure of a Clearing Member, the relevant Clearing
Member, as applicable, shall, unless prohibited from so doing by
applicable law or its internal policies, notify LCH.Clearnet SA as soon
as reasonably practicable if:
(i)

such Clearing Member is or consolidates or amalgamates with, or
merges into, or transfers all or substantially all of its assets to, the
Reference Entity in relation to such Single Name Cleared
Transaction, or enters into any agreement in respect of any of the
foregoing;

(ii)

such Clearing Member and the Reference Entity in relation to
such Single Name Cleared Transaction are or become Affiliates;
or

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

63

Published on 14 April 2016

(iii)

in respect of a Restructuring Cleared Transaction, such Clearing
Member is or becomes the Reference Entity in relation to such
Restructuring Cleared Transaction as a result of the occurrence
of the relevant Restructuring Credit Event;

or if it receives a notice from the Client that:

(b)

(i)

the Client is or has consolidated or amalgamated with, or merged
into, or has transferred all or substantially all of its assets to, the
Reference Entity in relation to such Single Name Cleared
Transaction or entered into any agreement in respect of any of
the foregoing;

(ii)

the Client and the Reference Entity in relation to such Single
Name Cleared Transaction are or have become Affiliates; or

(iii)

in respect of a Restructuring Cleared Transaction, the Client is or
has become the Reference Entity in relation to such Restructuring
Cleared Transaction as a result of the occurrence of the relevant
Restructuring Credit Event.

Transfer and Auction Process
Following the giving of any such notification or occurrence of a Self
Referencing Transactions due to a Transfer under Title V Chapter 3,
Title VI Chapter 3 or article 4.3 of the Default Management Process,
(i)

if the Self Referencing Transaction is a Clearing Member Self
Referencing Transaction, the relevant Client may request the
transfer of such Self Referencing Transaction to a Receiving
Clearing Member which is not, and none of its Affiliates are, the
Reference Entity of the affected Single Name Cleared
Transaction, in accordance with Title V Chapter 3 or Title VI
Chapter 3 as applicable of the CDS Clearing Rule Book;

(ii)

if such transfer has not been completed in a reasonable
timeframe as determined by LCH.Clearnet SA in consultation with
the Carrying Clearing Member, or the Self Referencing
Transaction is a Client Self Referencing Transaction,
LCH.Clearnet SA will, unless otherwise agreed in consultation
with the CDS Default Management Group and the relevant
Clearing Member, conduct an auction process in consultation with
the CDS Default Management Group and the relevant Clearing
Member, to liquidate the relevant Single Name Cleared
Transaction and enter into an equivalent Single Name Cleared
Transaction with another Clearing Member; and

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

64

Published on 14 April 2016

(iii)

(c)

the provisions of Section 9.1. (Occurrence of Self Referencing
Transaction) will apply mutatis mutandis, provided that:
(A)

Section 9.1(a) (Duty to Notify) and 9.1(b) (Auction of
Affected Transactions) shall not apply;

(B)

Section 9.1(d) (Compression of Affected Transactions prior
to Auction) is amended by deleting the words "to paragraph
(b) above" and replacing them with the words "as a result of
Section 9.2 (Occurrence of Self Referencing Transactions
in respect of Clients)";

(C)

Section 9.1(d) (Compression of Affected Transactions prior
to Auction) is amended in the case of CCM Clients only by
inserting the words "that have a corresponding CCM Client
Transaction with the affected CCM Client" immediately after
the words "in respect of fungible Single Name Cleared
Transactions";

(D)

Section 9.1(e) (Auction Terms) is amended by inserting the
words ", where the relevant Self Referencing Transaction is
a Clearing Member Self Referencing Transaction only,”
immediately after the word “excluding” in the final
paragraph thereof;

(E)

Section 9.1(f) (Creation of New Transactions and
Termination of Existing Transactions) is amended by
inserting the words "if the relevant Self Referencing
Transaction is a Clearing Member Self Referencing
Transaction” immediately after the words "other than the
affected Clearing Member" in the first paragraph thereof;
and

(F)

Each reference to "affected Clearing Member" in Section
9.1 (Occurrence of Self Referencing Transaction) is deleted
and replaced with a reference to "relevant Clearing
Member".

Costs of LCH.Clearnet SA
The cost of the associated bid/offer spread and any reasonable out-ofpocket costs and expenses of LCH.Clearnet SA in connection with
such auction(s) or any alternative action shall be allocated to the CCM
Client Collateral Account or the FCM Client Collateral Account as
applicable.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

65

Published on 14 April 2016

10.

MANDATORY PROVISIONS FOR CCM CLIENT TRANSACTIONS
In Appendix XIII, certain provisions are set-out (the "Mandatory Provisions")
for incorporation into a CCM Client Transaction between a CCM and its CCM
Client that corresponds to a CCM Client Cleared Transaction registered in
the CCM Client Trade Account in the name of such CCM for such CCM
Client. The CDS Clearing Supplement and these Mandatory Provisions have
been drafted so as to complement each other.
LCH.Clearnet SA shall not be responsible for any loss suffered or expense
incurred by a CCM or any CCM Client as a result of the inclusion or noninclusion of the Mandatory Provisions in the CCM Client Transaction
Documents.

11.

AMENDMENTS
LCH.Clearnet SA may amend the provisions of this CDS Clearing
Supplement (including, without limitation, the Mandatory Provisions) from
time to time so as to comply with any legal or regulatory developments or any
recommendations adopted by the industry in respect of CDS or Cleared
Transactions or CCM Client Transactions, as applicable, or so as to reflect
any technological advancements, in each case in accordance with the
provisions of Section 1.2.2 (Modification) of Chapter 2 (General Provisions)
of the CDS Clearing Rule Book.

12.

FORMS OF NOTICES
A form of Credit Event Notice, Notice to Exercise Movement Option, Notice of
Physical Settlement, NOPS Amendment Notice, Asset Package Notice,
notice to exercise alternative delivery procedure pursuant to Section 6.7
(Alternative Delivery Procedure), notice to fallback to Cash Settlement in
respect of Non-Deliverable Obligations pursuant to Section 6.12 (Fallback to
Cash Settlement in respect of Non-Deliverable Obligations), Physical
Settlement Confirmation, No Physical Settlement Confirmation, notice of
Clearing Member Communications Failure Event and where no longer
subject to a Clearing Member Communications Failure Event, in each case
pursuant to Section 7.6 (Clearing Member Communications Failure Event),
notice of dispute relating to any Matched Pair as contemplated by Section
7.11 (Dispute as to Notices) and notice relating to Self-Referencing
Transactions as contemplated by Section 9 (Self-Referencing Transactions)
is set out in Appendix I, II, III, IVA, IVB, V, VI, VII, VIII, IX, X, XI and XII
respectively hereto.
Any of the above referenced notices shall be delivered in substantially the
form appended hereto, provided, for the avoidance of doubt, that such
notices may refer to multiple transactions and may have certain firm-specific
variations.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

66

Published on 14 April 2016

For the avoidance of doubt, the above referenced notices shall be governed
by and construed in accordance with English law.
13.

EXCLUSION OF LIABILITY
Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 1.2.10.3 of the CDS Clearing
Rule Book:
(a)

No liability for Failure of Designee to perform in respect of
Matched Pair
Without prejudice to its obligations under or in respect of a Cleared
Transaction, LCH.Clearnet SA shall not be liable for any loss or cost
arising out of any failure of any Clearing Member comprised in a
Matched Pair to perform its obligations as designee of LCH.Clearnet
SA against a related Matched Buyer or Matched Seller, as applicable.

(b)

No liability for Fault of Third Party or Force Majeure
LCH.Clearnet SA shall have no liability to any person where
Restructuring Cleared Transactions are not or are improperly created,
Restructuring Cleared Transactions are not or are improperly
terminated or the Movement Option process is not or is improperly
implemented, in each case for the purposes of the DTCC Rules,
because of a third party’s fault or a force majeure event. In particular,
LCH.Clearnet SA shall not incur any liability arising as a result of any
action or omission of DTCC.

(c)

No Obligation to verify Notices received
LCH.Clearnet SA shall have no responsibility to verify the contents of
any notice received by it from any Clearing Member under the terms of
any Cleared Transaction.

14.

DISPUTE RESOLUTION
For the avoidance of doubt, all Disputes shall be referred to and finally
resolved by arbitration or by litigation, as applicable, in accordance with the
CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol, subject to the provisions of Sections 8 and
9 of the Procedures.

15.

GOVERNING LAW
For the avoidance of doubt, the governing law applicable to this CDS
Clearing Supplement (excluding the Mandatory Provisions to the extent that
such terms are incorporated by reference in the CCM Client Transaction
Documents entered into between a CCM and its CCM Client in respect of a
CCM Client Transaction), the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions and

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

67

Published on 14 April 2016

any Cleared Transactions (and any related definitions or Clearing Notices
issued in respect of the CDS Clearing Supplement, the 2014 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions or any Cleared Transactions) and any non-contractual
obligations arising out of, relating to or having any connection with them shall
be as set out in Section 1.2.14 (Governing Law) of the CDS Clearing Rule
Book.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

68

Published on 14 April 2016

APPENDIX I: FORM OF CREDIT EVENT NOTICE
To: [Restructuring Matched Pair Counterparty Address and Contact Information]
[To/Copy to:]
LCH.Clearnet SA
18, rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris
France
[Contact details]

CREDIT EVENT NOTICE:
Credit Derivative Transaction Details: As set out in the Schedule hereto10.
Reference is made to the Credit Derivative Transaction[s] described in the Schedule
hereto (the Transaction[s]). Capitalised terms used and not otherwise defined in
this letter shall have the meanings given them in the confirmation of the relevant
Transaction.
This letter is our Credit Event Notice to you that a [insert type] Credit Event occurred
with respect to [insert name of Reference Entity] on or about [insert date], when
[describe Credit Event].
Nothing in this letter shall be construed of a waiver of any rights we may have with
respect to the Transaction.
Sincerely

[Clearing Member]

________________________
Name:
Title:

10

A single Credit Event Notice may be submitted for multiple trades in respect of the same Counterparty

69

SCHEDULE
Credit Derivative Transaction Details
[Clearing
Member]
acting as
Seller/Buyer
[Seller]
[Buyer]

11

Restructuring Trade ID
Matched Pair
ID
[ ]

[ ]

Reference Trade Date
Entity

Effective
Date

Exercise
Amount11

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

Where different to the outstanding Floating Rate Payer Calculation Amount

70

APPENDIX II: FORM OF NOTICE TO EXERCISE MOVEMENT OPTION
To: [Restructuring Matched Pair Counterparty Address and Contact Information]
[To/Copy to:]
LCH.Clearnet SA
18, rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris
France
[Contact details]
Dear Sir/Madam
Notice to Exercise Movement Option
Credit Derivative Transaction Details: As set out in the Schedule hereto12.
Reference is made to: (a) the Credit Derivative Transaction[s] described in the
Schedule hereto (the Transaction[s]) between [
], as Seller, and [
], as
Buyer; (b) the Credit Event Notice dated insert date], previously delivered to you on
[insert date]; and (c) the occurrence of the No Auction Announcement Date on [insert
date] pursuant to Section 6.11(b) or Section 6.11(c)(ii) of the 2014 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions (the Definitions).
This letter constitutes a Notice to Exercise Movement Option. Any capitalised term
not otherwise defined in this letter will have the meaning, if any, assigned to such
term in the confirmation of the relevant Transaction or, if no meaning is specified
therein, in the Definitions.
We hereby exercise the Movement Option, confirm that each Transaction will be
settled in accordance with the relevant Credit Derivatives Auction Settlement Terms
specified in the column entitled "Auction Settlement Terms" corresponding to such
Transaction in the Schedule hereto and require performance by you in accordance
therewith.
Yours faithfully,
[Matched Buyer/Matched Seller]
________________________
Name:
Title:

12

A single Notice to Exercise Movement Option may be submitted for multiple trades in respect of the same
Counterparty

71

SCHEDULE
Credit Derivative Transaction Details
Restructuring Trade ID
Matched Pair
ID

Reference
Entity

Trade Date

Effective
Date

Auction
Settlement
Terms

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[]

[]

72

APPENDIX III: FORM OF NOTICE OF PHYSICAL SETTLEMENT
To: Settlement Matched Pair Matched Seller Address and Contact Information
Copy to:
LCH.Clearnet SA
18, rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris
France
[Contact details]
Notice of Physical Settlement
Credit Derivative Transaction Details: As set out in the Schedule hereto13.
Reference is made to: (a) the Credit Derivative Transaction[s] described in the
Schedule hereto (the Transaction[s]) between [
], as Seller, and [
], as
Buyer. Reference is also made to the Credit Event Notice [and Notice of Publicly
Available Information] dated [insert date], previously delivered to you on [insert date].
This letter constitutes a Notice of Physical Settlement. Any capitalised term not
otherwise defined in this letter will have the meaning, if any, assigned to such term in
the confirmation of the relevant Transaction (the Relevant Confirmation) or, if no
meaning is specified therein, in the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions (the
Definitions).
We hereby confirm that we will settle the Transaction[s] and require performance by
you in accordance with the provisions of the Relevant Confirmation and the
Definitions relating to Physical Settlement. Subject to the terms of the relevant
Transaction, we will Deliver to you on or before the Physical Settlement Date, an
amount of the Deliverable Obligation(s) described in the column entitled "Deliverable
Obligation(s)" in the Schedule hereto, corresponding to such Transaction:

Yours faithfully,
[Matched Buyer]

________________________
Name:
Title:
13

A single Notice of Physical Settlement may be submitted for multiple trades in respect of the same
Counterparty

73

74

SCHEDULE
Credit Derivative Transaction Details
Settlement
Matched Pair ID

Trade ID

Reference Entity Trade Date

Effective Date

Deliverable
Obligation(s)14

[ ]

[]

[ ]

[ ]

[Currency][Due
and
Payable
Amount]][]

[ ]

14

describe the Deliverable Obligation(s) to be Delivered, including the currency and outstanding principal balance or Due and Payable Amount for each such Deliverable
Obligation and, if available and applicable, the CUSIP or ISIN number (or, if such identifying number is not available, the rate and tenor of the Deliverable Obligation)

75

APPENDIX IVA: FORM OF NOPS AMENDMENT NOTICE
To: Settlement Matched Pair Matched Seller Address and Contact Information
Copy to:
LCH.Clearnet SA
18, rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris
France
[Contact details]
Settlement Matched Pair ID: []
Trade ID: []
NOPS Amendment Notice
Credit Derivative Transaction Details: [Trade Date], [Effective Date], [Reference
Entity]
Reference is made to the Credit Derivative Transaction described above (the
Transaction) between [
], as Seller, and [
], as Buyer.
Reference is also made to the Notice of Physical Settlement] NOPS Amendment
Notice] dated [insert date], previously delivered to you on [insert date] dated [insert
date].
This letter constitutes a NOPS Amendment Notice. Any capitalised term not
otherwise defined in this letter will have the meaning, if any, assigned to such term in
the Confirmation of the Transaction or, if no meaning is specified therein, in the CDS
Clearing Supplement.
We hereby notify you that we are replacing the following Deliverable Obligation(s)
specified in the Notice of Physical Settlement] NOPS Amendment Notice] specified
above with the following Replacement Deliverable Obligation(s):
[describe the Deliverable Obligation(s) to be replaced, including the Replaced
Deliverable Obligation Amount for each such Deliverable Obligation and, if available
and applicable, the CUSIP or ISIN number (or, if such identifying number is not
available, the rate and tenor of the Deliverable Obligation) and the Replacement
Deliverable Obligation(s) for each Replaced Deliverable Obligation Amount so
specified and, if available and applicable, the CUSIP or ISIN number (or, if such
identifying number is not available, the rate and tenor of the Replacement
Deliverable Obligation)].

Yours faithfully,
76

[Matched Buyer]

________________________
Name:
Title:

77

APPENDIX IVB: FORM OF ASSET PACKAGE NOTICE
To: Settlement Matched Pair Matched Seller Address and Contact Information
Copy to:
LCH.Clearnet SA
18, rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris
France
[Contact details]
Settlement Matched Pair ID: []
Trade ID: []
Asset Package Notice
Credit Derivative Transaction Details: [Trade Date], [Effective Date], [Reference
Entity]
Reference is made to the Credit Derivative Transaction described above (the
Transaction) between [
], as Seller, and [
], as Buyer.
Reference is also made to the Notice of Physical Settlement] [NOPS Amendment
Notice] dated [insert date], previously delivered to you on [insert date] dated [insert
date].
This letter constitutes an Asset Package Notice. Any capitalised term not otherwise
defined in this letter will have the meaning, if any, assigned to such term in the
Confirmation of the Transaction or, if no meaning is specified therein, in the CDS
Clearing Supplement.
We hereby notify you that our obligation to Deliver the following Deliverable
Obligation(s) specified in the Notice of Physical Settlement] NOPS Amendment
Notice] specified above shall be satisfied by Delivery of the following Asset Package:
[describe the Deliverable Obligation(s) to which the Asset Package relates, including
the Deliverable Obligation Amount for each such Deliverable Obligation and, if
available and applicable, the CUSIP or ISIN number (or, if such identifying number is
not available, the rate and tenor of the Deliverable Obligation) and the Assets
comprising the Asset Package for each such Deliverable Obligation(s) and, if
available and applicable, the CUSIP or ISIN number (or, if such identifying number is
not available, the rate and tenor of the Asset, if applicable)].

78

Yours faithfully,
[Matched Buyer]

________________________
Name:
Title:

79

APPENDIX V: FORM OF NOTICE TO EXERCISE ALTERNATIVE DELIVERY
PROCEDURE PURSUANT TO SECTION 6.7 (ALTERNATIVE DELIVERY
PROCEDURE)
To:
LCH.Clearnet SA
18, rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris
France
[Contact details]
[date]
Dear Sir/Madam
Notice to Exercise Alternative Delivery Procedure15
Reference is made to: the Settlement Matched Pairs described in the Schedule
hereto, being the Settlement Matched Pairs to which this notice relates and Section
6.7 (Alternative Delivery Procedure) of the CDS Clearing Supplement. Defined
terms shall have the meanings assigned to them in the CDS Clearing Supplement,
unless otherwise defined herein.
The Settlement Matched Pair Delivery Amount relating to each Settlement Matched
Pair is that amount specified in the column entitled "Settlement Matched Pair
Delivery Amount" in the Schedule hereto, corresponding to such Settlement Matched
Pair.
In respect of each Settlement Matched Pair and in accordance with Section 6.7
(Alternative Delivery Procedure) we hereby elect to exercise our rights against and
perform obligations to you in accordance with the alternative delivery procedure in
relation to such percentage and amount of the Settlement Matched Pair Delivery
Amount as set out in the column entitled "Percentage and Amount of Settlement
Matched Pair Delivery Amount" in the Schedule hereto corresponding to such
Settlement Matched Pair.
This notice may be executed in any number of counterparts which together shall
constitute one notice.
By countersigning this notice, you are deemed to have given your consent to the
above in satisfaction of the requirement to obtain your consent contained in Section
6.7 (Alternative Delivery Procedure) of the CDS Clearing Supplement.

15

A single Notice to Exercise Alternative Delivery Procedure may be submitted for multiple trades in respect of
the same Counterparty

80

This notice (and any dispute, controversy, proceedings or claim of whatever nature
arising out of or in any way relating to this agreement or its formation) shall be
governed by and construed in accordance with English law.
Yours faithfully,
[Matched Buyer/ Matched Seller]

________________________
Name:
Title:

Countersigned by LCH.Clearnet SA

________________________
Name:
Title:

81

SCHEDULE
Credit Derivative Transaction Details
Settlement
Matched Pair ID

Trade ID

Reference
Entity

Trade Date

Effective Date

Settlement
Matched Pair
Delivery
Amount

Percentage and
amount of
Settlement
Matched Pair
Delivery
Amount

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

82

APPENDIX VI: FORM OF NOTICE OF FALLBACK TO CASH SETTLEMENT OF
NON-DELIVERABLE OBLIGATIONS PURSUANT TO SECTION 6.12 (FALLBACK
TO CASH SETTLEMENT IN RESPECT OF NON-DELIVERABLE OBLIGATIONS)
To: Settlement Matched Pair Matched Seller Address and Contact Information
To:
LCH.Clearnet SA
18, rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris
France
[Contact details]
Settlement Matched Pair ID: []
Trade ID: []
Dear Sir/Madam
Notice of fallback to Cash Settlement in respect of Non-Deliverable Obligations
pursuant to Section 6.12 (Fallback to Cash Settlement in respect of NonDeliverable Obligations) of the CDS Clearing Supplement
Reference is made to Section 6.12 (Fallback to Cash Settlement in respect of NonDeliverable Obligations) of the CDS Clearing Supplement and [insert details of the
relevant Settlement Matched Pair(s)], being the Settlement Matched Pair[s] to which
this notice relates and to the [Notice of Physical Settlement][NOPS Amendment
Notice] previously delivered to you on [insert date] dated [insert date]. Defined terms
shall have the meanings assigned to them in the CDS Clearing Supplement, unless
otherwise defined herein.
In accordance with Section 6.12 (Fallback to Cash Settlement in respect of NonDeliverable Obligations) of the CDS Clearing Supplement we hereby notify you we
are not permitted to Deliver the Deliverable Obligations specified below (such
Deliverable Obligations, the Non-Deliverable Obligations) as specified in the
[Notice of Physical Settlement][NOPS Amendment Notice] specified above for the
following reasons:
[Insert details of the relevant Non-Deliverable Obligations and reasonable detail of
the relevant circumstances, as described paragraphs (a)(i) and (a)(ii) of Section 6.12
of the CDS Clearing Supplement].
This notice (and any dispute, controversy, proceedings or claim of whatever nature
arising out of or in any way relating to this agreement or its formation) shall be
governed by and construed in accordance with English law.
Yours faithfully,
83

[Matched Buyer]

________________________
Name:
Title:

84

APPENDIX VII: FORM OF PHYSICAL SETTLEMENT CONFIRMATION AS
CONTEMPLATED BY SECTION 6.19 (MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
RELATING TO PHYSICAL SETTLEMENT)
To:
LCH.Clearnet SA
18, rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris
France
[Contact details]
[date]
Dear Sir/Madam
Physical Settlement Confirmation
Reference is made to Section 6.19(b) (Notification of Completion of Physical
Settlement) of the CDS Clearing Supplement and the Settlement Matched Pair[s]
described in the Schedule hereto, being the Settlement Matched Pair[s] to which this
notice relates. Defined terms shall have the meanings assigned to them in the CDS
Clearing Supplement, unless otherwise defined herein.
In accordance with Section 6.19(b) (Notification of Completion of Physical
Settlement) of the CDS Clearing Supplement, we hereby notify you that we have
completed Physical Settlement with respect to such Settlement Matched Pair[s].
This notice is delivered in satisfaction of the requirement in Section 6.19(b)
(Notification of Completion of Physical Settlement) of the CDS Clearing Supplement
to inform you of such completion.
This notice (and any dispute, controversy, proceedings or claim of whatever nature
arising out of or in any way relating to this agreement or its formation) shall be
governed by and construed in accordance with English law.
Yours faithfully,
[Matched Buyer]/[Matched Seller]

________________________
Name:
Title:

85

SCHEDULE
Settlement Matched Pair Details
Settlement
Matched Pair ID

Trade ID

Reference
Entity

Trade Date

Effective Date

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

86

APPENDIX VIII: FORM OF NO PHYSICAL SETTLEMENT CONFIRMATION AS
CONTEMPLATED BY SECTION 6.19 (MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
RELATING TO PHYSICAL SETTLEMENT)
To:
LCH.Clearnet SA
18, rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris
France
[Contact details]
[date]
Settlement Matched Pair ID: []
Trade ID: []
Dear Sir/Madam
No Physical Settlement Confirmation
Reference is made to Section 6.19(c) (Notification that Physical Settlement will not
occur) of the CDS Clearing Supplement and the Settlement Matched Pair[s]
described in the Schedule hereto, being the Settlement Matched Pair[s] to which this
notice relates. Defined terms shall have the meanings assigned to them in the CDS
Clearing Supplement, unless otherwise defined herein.
In accordance with Section 6.19(c) (Notification that Physical Settlement will not
occur) of the CDS Clearing Supplement, we hereby notify you that no Notice of
Physical Settlement has been delivered within the relevant time period permitted for
such delivery in accordance with the terms of the relevant Physically Settled Cleared
Transactions and, accordingly, that Physical Settlement will not, under the terms of
such Physically Settled Cleared Transactions, occur.
This notice is delivered in satisfaction of the requirement in Section 6.19(c)
(Notification that Physical Settlement will not occur) of the CDS Clearing Supplement
to inform you of such completion.
This notice (and any dispute, controversy, proceedings or claim of whatever nature
arising out of or in any way relating to this agreement or its formation) shall be
governed by and construed in accordance with English law.
Yours faithfully,
[Matched Buyer]/[Matched Seller]

________________________
87

Name:
:
Title:

88

SCHEDULE
Settlement Matched Pair Details
Settlement
Matched Pair ID

Trade ID

Reference
Entity

Trade Date

Effective Date

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

89

APPENDIX IX: FORM OF NOTICE OF CLEARING MEMBER COMMUNICATIONS
FAILURE EVENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 7.6 (CLEARING MEMBER
COMMUNICATIONS FAILURE EVENT)
To:
LCH.Clearnet SA
18, rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris
France
[Contact details]
[date]
Dear Sir/Madam
Notice certifying occurrence of a Clearing Member Communications Failure
Event
Reference is made to Section 7.6(b) (Clearing Member to notify LCH.Clearnet SA of
Occurrence of Clearing Member Communications Failure Event) of the CDS
Clearing Supplement. Defined terms shall have the meanings assigned to them in
the CDS Clearing Supplement, unless otherwise defined herein.
In accordance with Section 7.6(b) (Clearing Member to notify LCH.Clearnet SA of
Occurrence of Clearing Member Communications Failure Event) of the CDS
Clearing Supplement, notice is hereby given that we are affected by a Clearing
Member Communications Failure Event [insert details of such failure].
This notice (and any dispute, controversy, proceedings or claim of whatever nature
arising out of or in any way relating to this agreement or its formation) shall be
governed by and construed in accordance with English law.
Yours faithfully,
[Clearing Member]

________________________
Name:
Title:
[Signed by a senior officer (such as a managing director or equivalent) on behalf of
the Clearing Member]

90

APPENDIX X: FORM OF NOTICE FOR CEASING TO BE SUBJECT TO A
CLEARING MEMBER COMMUNICATIONS FAILURE EVENT PURSUANT TO
SECTION 7.6 (CLEARING MEMBER COMMUNICATIONS FAILURE EVENT)
To:
LCH.Clearnet SA
18, rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris
France
[Contact details]
[date]
Dear Sir/Madam
Notice that a Clearing Member is no longer subject to Clearing Member
Communications Failure Event
Reference is made to Section 7.6(d) (Notification of Resolution of Clearing Member
Communications Failure Event) of the CDS Clearing Supplement and the notice
certifying the occurrence of a Clearing Member Communications Failure Event
delivered by us to LCH.Clearnet SA on [] (the Notice of Clearing Member
Communications Failure Event). Defined terms shall have the meanings assigned
to them in the CDS Clearing Supplement, unless otherwise defined herein.
In accordance with Section 7.6(d) (Notification of Resolution of Clearing Member
Communications Failure Event) of the CDS Clearing Supplement, notice is hereby
given that we are no longer subject to the relevant Clearing Member
Communications Failure Event described in the Notice of Clearing Member
Communications Failure Event.
This notice (and any dispute, controversy, proceedings or claim of whatever nature
arising out of or in any way relating to this agreement or its formation) shall be
governed by and construed in accordance with English law.
Yours faithfully,
[Clearing Member]

________________________
Name:
Title:

91

APPENDIX XI: FORM OF NOTICE OF DISPUTE RELATING TO ANY MATCHED
PAIR
To:
LCH.Clearnet SA
18, rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris
France
[Contact details]
[date]
[Restructuring][Settlement] Matched Pair ID: []
Trade ID: []

Dear Sir/Madam
Notice of dispute relating to [insert details of the relevant Matched Pairs
subject to a dispute]
Reference is made to Section 7.11 (Disputes as to Notices) of the CDS Clearing
Supplement. Defined terms shall have the meanings assigned to them in the CDS
Clearing Supplement, unless otherwise defined herein.
In accordance with Section 7.11 (Disputes as to Notices) of the CDS Clearing
Supplement, notice is hereby given of the following dispute(s):
[insert details of Matched Pair(s) affected and the relevant dispute].
This notice (and any dispute, controversy, proceedings or claim of whatever nature
arising out of or in any way relating to this agreement or its formation) shall be
governed by and construed in accordance with English law.
Yours faithfully,
[Matched Buyer]/[Matched Seller]

________________________
Name:
Title:

92

APPENDIX XII: FORM OF NOTICE RELATING TO SELF-REFERENCING
TRANSACTIONS
To:
LCH.Clearnet SA
18, rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris
France
[Contact details]
[date]
Dear Sir/Madam
Notice relating to Self-Referencing Transactions
Credit Derivative Transaction Details: As set out in the Schedule hereto16.
Reference is made to the Credit Derivative Transaction[s] described in the Schedule
hereto (the Transaction[s]) between [], as Seller and [], as Buyer and to Section
9.1(a) (Duty to notify) of the CDS Clearing Supplement. Defined terms shall have
the meanings assigned to them in the CDS Clearing Supplement, unless otherwise
defined herein.
In accordance with Section 9.1(a) (Duty to notify) of the CDS Clearing Supplement,
notice is hereby given of the following: [insert details of one or more of the relevant
events, as set out in paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) of Section 9.1(a) (Duty to notify) of
the CDS Clearing Supplement].
This notice (and any dispute, controversy, proceedings or claim of whatever nature
arising out of or in any way relating to this agreement or its formation) shall be
governed by and construed in accordance with English law.
Yours faithfully,
[Clearing Member]

________________________
Name:
Title:

16

A single Credit Event Notice may be submitted for multiple trades in respect of the same Counterparty

93

SCHEDULE
Credit Derivative Transaction Details
[Restructuring]
Matched Pair
ID

Trade ID

Reference
Entity

Trade Date

Effective Date

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

94

APPENDIX XIII: CCM CLIENT TRANSACTION REQUIREMENTS
The following provisions (the "Mandatory Provisions") are to be incorporated into a
CCM Client Transaction between a CCM and its CCM Client that corresponds to a
CCM Client Cleared Transaction registered in the CCM Client Trade Account in the
name of such CCM for such CCM Client. The terms of the corresponding CCM
Client Cleared Transaction will be governed by the CDS Clearing Supplement. The
CDS Clearing Supplement and these Mandatory Provisions have been drafted so as
to complement each other.
LCH.Clearnet SA shall not be responsible for any loss suffered or expense incurred
by a CCM or any CCM Client as a result of the inclusion in the CCM Client
Transaction Documents of the requirements set-out in this Appendix XIII.
The Mandatory Provisions, when they are incorporated into any CCM Client
Transaction Documents, shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the
governing law applicable to such CCM Client Transaction Documents of which they
form part, or if different and applicable, in accordance with such CCM Client
Transaction Documents, the governing law applicable to transactions entered into
under such CCM Client Transaction Documents. The Mandatory Provisions shall be
subject to such dispute resolution mechanisms and procedures and such courts or
other forum for hearing disputes as are applicable in respect of such CCM Client
Transaction Documents of which they form part. Each CCM and its CCM Client to
which the Mandatory Provisions apply will waive any right to object to any such
choice of law or proceedings on the basis of forum non conveniens, that the
governing law or forum is not specified on the face of this document or otherwise.
In this Appendix XIII:
"CCM Client Buyer" means a CCM Client that is party to a CCM Client Transaction
as protection buyer;
"CCM Client Seller" means a CCM Client that is party to a CCM Client Transaction
as protection seller;
"CCM Buyer/Matched Seller" means a CCM that is party to a CCM Client
Transaction as protection buyer and to the corresponding CCM Client Cleared
Transaction as protection seller; and
"CCM Seller/Matched Buyer" means a CCM that is party to a CCM Client
Transaction as protection seller and to the corresponding CCM Client Cleared
Transaction as protection buyer.
1.

Defined Terms
Terms used in the Mandatory Provisions and not otherwise defined herein or
in the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions shall have the meanings
given to them in the CDS Clearing Supplement.
95

2.

Terms of CCM Client Transactions

2.1

2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions
The definitions and provisions contained in the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association
(the "2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions"), are incorporated into each
CCM Client Transaction.

2.2

Single Name CCM Client Transactions - Reference Obligation
With effect from the date on which the CCM Client Cleared Transaction
corresponding to a Single Name CCM Client Transaction is registered in the
TIW, such Single Name CCM Client Transaction shall be deemed to
reference the Standard Reference Obligation, provided that if there is no
Standard Reference Obligation, such Single Name CCM Client Transaction
shall be deemed to reference the CDSClear Preferred Reference Obligation.

2.3

Single Name CCM Client Transactions - Updating Physical Settlement Matrix
With effect from the date on which the CCM Client Cleared Transaction
corresponding to a Single Name CCM Client Transaction is registered in the
TIW, such Single Name CCM Client Transaction shall be deemed to
reference the Relevant Physical Settlement Matrix.
With effect from the close of business on any Matrix Re-versioning Date, any
Single Name CCM Client Transaction referencing the Existing Matrix will be
deemed to have been amended so as to reference the Revised Matrix.

2.4

Index Client CCM Transactions - Updating Eligible Index Versions
Upon the occurrence of a DTCC Re-versioning Date, any Index CCM Client
Transaction shall be automatically amended so as to reference the portfolio
of Reference Entities specified in the revised version of the index published
by the Index Publisher and referenced in the TIW with effect from such DTCC
Re-versioning Date.

2.5

Initial Payment Date
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions, if the Initial Payment Date specified in the CCM Client
Transaction Documents in respect of any CCM Client Transaction is a date
falling after the Clearing Day on which the Cleared Transactions related to
such CCM Client Transaction are created by novation pursuant to Title III
(Clearing Operations) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, the Initial Payment
Date in respect of such CCM Client Transaction shall be deemed to be the
Transaction Business Day immediately following the Clearing Day on which
the Cleared Transactions relating to such CCM Client Transaction are
created.
96

3.

Additional CCM Client Transactions, Compression and Succession
Events

3.1

Creation of Additional CCM Client Transactions
Immediately following:
(a)

the creation of Matched Pairs by LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to Section
8.1 (Creation of Matched Pairs) of the CDS Clearing Supplement; or

(b)

the creation of Resulting Single Name Cleared Transactions pursuant
to Section 4.4 (Re-couponing of Restructuring Cleared Transactions) of
the CDS Clearing Supplement,

if a CCM Client Transaction has been specified to have been split into or
replaced by two or more separate CCM Client Transactions in the TIW as a
result of the creation of such Matched Pairs or Resulting Single Name
Cleared Transactions, such CCM Client Transaction shall be split into or
terminated and replaced by two or more (as applicable) corresponding CCM
Client Transactions. The Floating Rate Payer Calculation Amount and Fixed
Rate of each such CCM Client Transaction shall correspond to the Floating
Rate Payer Calculation Amount and Fixed Rate specified in TIW for such
CCM Client Transaction. In respect of CCM Client Transactions created as a
result of the creation of Resulting Single Name Cleared Transactions, the
Trade Date of such new CCM Client Transactions shall be the same as the
Trade Date of the equivalent Resulting Single Name Cleared Transactions.
Otherwise, each new CCM Client Transaction shall have the same terms as
the original CCM Client Transaction.
3.2

Reversal of Creation of Additional CCM Client Transactions
If a CCM Client Transaction has been split into two or more CCM Client
Transactions pursuant to Mandatory Provision 3.1 (Creation of Additional
CCM Client Transactions) above and the relevant DC Credit Event
Announcement that led to the creation of the Matched Pairs is reversed such
that Section 5.5 (Reversal of DC Credit Event Announcements) of the CDS
Clearing Supplement applies, then, subject to Section 11.1(c)(iii)(B) of the
2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions, any additional CCM Client
Transactions created pursuant to Mandatory Provision 3.1 (Creation of
Additional CCM Client Transactions) above shall be deemed not to have
been created and any Credit Event Notices delivered in connection with such
CCM Client Transactions shall be deemed to be ineffective.

3.3

Compression of CCM Client Transactions
If two or more CCM Client Transactions are specified in TIW to have been
compressed into a single CCM Client Transaction pursuant to Chapter 3
(Compression) of Title III (Clearing Operations) of the CDS Clearing Rule
97

Book, such CCM Client Transactions shall be compressed into a single CCM
Client Transaction with a Floating Rate Payer Calculation Amount equal to
the aggregate Floating Rate Payer Calculation Amounts of the original CCM
Client Transactions.
3.4

Succession Events and Cleared Transactions
If LCH.Clearnet SA takes any action with respect to a CCM Client Cleared
Transaction pursuant to Section 4.5 (Succession Events and Cleared
Transactions) of the CDS Clearing Supplement so as to give effect to a
Succession Event, such action shall also be deemed to have been taken with
respect to the corresponding CCM Client Transaction.

4.

Notices

4.1

Validity of Notices
Save if and as expressly stated to the contrary in the Mandatory Provisions,
any notice delivered by a CCM Client to its CCM in respect of a CCM Client
Transaction (including, without limitation, a Credit Event Notice, Notice of
Physical Settlement, Notice to Exercise Movement Option or NOPS
Amendment Notice) at a time or in a manner in which the CCM would not be
permitted to deliver such a notice to LCH.Clearnet (or to a relevant Matched
Buyer or Matched Seller as designee of LCH.Clearnet (as applicable)) in
respect of the corresponding CCM Client Cleared Transaction pursuant to the
terms of the CDS Clearing Supplement shall be deemed not to have been
delivered.

4.2

Credit Event Notices and NEMOs given via DTCC
(a)

Credit Event Notices and NEMOs to be given via DTCC
Credit Event Notices and Notices to Exercise Movement Option shall
be delivered by way of the relevant DTCC Notice Facility, save if and as
expressly stated to the contrary in the Mandatory Provisions or
otherwise agreed between the parties to the CCM Client Transaction.
The deemed time of delivery of any such notices shall be as set out in
the DTCC Rules from time to time.

(b)

Credit Event Notices and NEMOs delivered in respect of corresponding
CCM Client Cleared Transaction
In respect of a CCM Client Transaction, if:
(i)

CCM Seller/Matched Buyer or CCM Buyer/Matched Seller
delivers a valid Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise
Movement Option in respect of the corresponding CCM Client
Cleared Transaction by way of the relevant DTCC Notice Facility;
or
98

(ii)

a Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise Movement Option is
deemed to have been delivered in respect of the corresponding
CCM Client Cleared Transaction pursuant to Section 7.3(b)
(Credit Event Notices and NEMOs delivered in respect of CCM
Client Transaction) of the CDS Clearing Supplement as a result
of the receipt of a valid Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise
Movement Option (as applicable) by way of the relevant DTCC
Notice Facility in respect of the CCM Client Transaction between
the other CCM of a Matched Pair and its CCM Client,

and a Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise Movement Option (as
applicable) has not already been given in respect of such CCM Client
Transaction in accordance with Mandatory Provision 4.4
(Communications Failure Event) such notice (or deemed notice) shall
be deemed also to be a Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise
Movement Option (as applicable) for the purposes of such CCM Client
Transaction.
4.3

Consequences of DTCC Failure
If a DTCC Failure Event occurs, from (and including) the DTCC Failure Event
Time to (but excluding) the DTCC Resolution Time:
(a)

Mandatory Provision 4.2(a) (Credit Event Notices and NEMOs to be
given via DTCC) shall not apply and accordingly Credit Event Notices
and Notices to Exercise Movement Option shall be delivered directly
(and not via the relevant DTCC Notice Facility);

(b)

any notice delivered via the relevant DTCC Notice Facility prior to the
DTCC Failure Event Time will be valid and will not be affected by such
DTCC Failure Event; and

(c)

any notice delivered or purported to be delivered via the relevant DTCC
Notice Facility at or following the DTCC Failure Event Time but prior to
the DTCC Resolution Time will not be valid and effective.

Mandatory Provision 4.2(a) (Credit Event Notices and NEMOs to be given via
DTCC) shall apply with effect from the DTCC Resolution Time and,
accordingly, any notice thereafter delivered or purported to be delivered
directly (and not via the relevant DTCC Notice Facility) will not be valid and
effective.

99

4.4

Communications Failure Event
(a)

Right to deliver Notices manually following Communications Failure
Event
If a party is affected by a significant communications or information
technology failure resulting in it being impossible or impractical for such
party to deliver any Credit Event Notice in relation to a Restructuring
Credit Event or any Notice to Exercise Movement Option via a relevant
DTCC Notice Facility (a "Communications Failure Event") it may,
notwithstanding Mandatory Provision 4.2(a) (Credit Event Notices and
NEMOs to be given via DTCC), deliver Credit Event Notices and
Notices to Exercise Movement Option directly (and not via the relevant
DTCC Notice Facility).
Such party shall deliver, together with any Credit Event Notice or Notice
to Exercise Movement Option delivered by it directly, a notice signed by
a senior officer (such as a managing director or equivalent) of such
party certifying that it is affected by a Communications Failure Event
(or, if such party is unable to deliver such notice in writing, orally by
telephone).

(b)

Notices to party affected by Communications Failure Event
For the avoidance of doubt, Mandatory Provision 4.2(a) (Credit Event
Notices and NEMOs to be given via DTCC) shall continue to apply in
respect of notices given by the party not affected by the
Communications Failure Event to the party affected by the
Communications Failure Event.

(c)

Notification of Resolution of Communications Failure Event
As soon as reasonably practicable upon a party ceasing to be subject
to a Communications Failure Event, it shall notify the other party
accordingly and thereupon Mandatory Provision 4.2(a) (Credit Event
Notices and NEMOs to be given via DTCC) shall apply and,
accordingly, any notice thereafter delivered or purported to be delivered
directly (and not via the relevant DTCC Notice Facility) will not be valid
and effective.

(d)

Duty to Mitigate
A party which is subject to a Communications Failure Event shall use
reasonable endeavours to mitigate the operational impact on the other
party of any Communications Failure Event, to cure such
Communications Failure Event as soon as possible and to ensure that
the circumstances giving rise to the relevant Communications Failure
Event do not recur.
100

(e)

Breach does not Invalidate Valid Notices
Without prejudice to any other rights or remedies of the parties, any
breach by a party of the provisions of this Mandatory Provision 4.4 shall
not cause any Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise Movement
Option delivered otherwise than in accordance with the terms of the
relevant CCM Client Transaction, which would otherwise be valid and
effective, to be invalid or ineffective.

4.5

Uncertain Delivery
(a)

Manual Notice permitted if Delivery of Notice in DTCC uncertain
Notwithstanding Mandatory Provision 4.2(a) (Credit Event Notices and
NEMOs to be given via DTCC), where such notices are permitted to be
delivered by means other than the relevant DTCC Notice Facility
pursuant to this Mandatory Provision 4 (Notices), and a party is
uncertain as to whether or not a Credit Event Notice or Notice to
Exercise Movement Option (as applicable) it attempted to deliver via a
DTCC Notice Facility has:
(i)

actually been delivered; or

(ii)

was delivered prior to the DTCC Failure Time,

that party shall be entitled to deliver such a notice directly to the other
party specifying that such notice is only to be effective to the extent that
the other purported notice is not effective.
(b)

Details to be provided of Uncertain Notice
If a party delivers a manual notice pursuant to Mandatory Provision
4.5(a) (Manual Notice permitted if Delivery of Notice in DTCC
uncertain) above, such party shall be required to provide (together with
such notice) sufficient details of the notice attempted to be given by
way of the relevant DTCC Notice Facility so as to allow the other party
to identify the communication concerned.

(c)

DTCC Notice delivered successfully
If the first Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise Movement Option
(as applicable) to which the manual notice delivered pursuant to
Mandatory Provision 4.5(a)‎ (Manual Notice permitted if Delivery of
Notice in DTCC uncertain) above related was actually delivered
successfully, any subsequent Credit Event Notice or Notice to Exercise
Movement Option delivered shall be deemed not to have been
delivered.

101

5.

Determination of Credit Events and Succession Events
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary:

6.

(a)

the Calculation Agent shall not make any determination in respect of
any matter which is or may be subject to resolution under Sections 3.5
(Successor Resolutions) or 3.6 (Substitute Reference Obligation
Resolutions) of the DC Rules; and

(b)

neither party shall be entitled to deliver a Successor Notice or a Credit
Event Notice (other than Credit Event Notices in relation to a
Restructuring Credit Event in accordance with the terms of any
Restructuring CCM Client Transaction (including the Mandatory
Provisions) and, where applicable, the DTCC Rules).

Timings for the Delivery of Manual Notices

The following provisions shall solely be applicable in respect of a CCM Client
Transaction between a CCM Client Buyer and its CCM Seller/Matched Buyer:
6.1

Delivery of Manual Notices by CCM Client Buyer
For the purposes of the delivery by CCM Client Buyer of any notice in respect
of a CCM Client Transaction which is permitted pursuant to the terms of such
CCM Client Transaction (including the Mandatory Provisions) to be delivered
manually (rather than via the relevant DTCC Notice Facility), Section 1.38
(Requirements Regarding Notices) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions shall be amended so as to provide that, solely in respect of the
final day on which such manual notice could validly be delivered pursuant to
the terms of such CCM Client Transaction (including the Mandatory
Provisions), any such notice shall be required to be delivered on or prior to
2:00 p.m. (Calculation Agent City time) in order to be effective.
A manual notice (including, without limitation, a Credit Event Notice or a
Notice to Exercise Movement Option) delivered after 2:00 p.m. (Calculation
Agent City time) on the final day on which such notice could validly be
delivered pursuant to the terms of the relevant CCM Client Transaction
(including the Mandatory Provisions) shall be deemed not to have been
delivered.

6.2

Onward Delivery of Certain Notices by CCM Seller/Matched Buyer to
Matched Seller
Any Credit Event Notice, Notice to Exercise Movement Option, Physical
Settlement Notice, NOPS Amendment Notice, any notice given pursuant to
Section 8.2 (Notice of Physical Settlement) of the 2014 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions in respect of any Asset or Asset Package, any notice
given pursuant to Section 9.7 (Buy-in of Bonds Not Delivered) of the 2014
102

ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions or any notice given pursuant to Section
9.8 (Alternative Procedures Relating to Loans Not Delivered) of the 2014
ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions which is permitted to be and is delivered
manually by CCM Client Buyer to CCM Seller/Matched Buyer in respect of
and pursuant to the terms of a CCM Client Transaction (including the
Mandatory Provisions) shall not be effective unless and until CCM
Seller/Matched Buyer effectively delivers the relevant equivalent notice to the
relevant Matched Seller in respect of and pursuant to the terms of the
corresponding Restructuring Cleared Transaction or Physically Settled
Cleared Transaction, as applicable.
CCM Seller/Matched Buyer undertakes to deliver such a notice to the
relevant Matched Seller within two hours of its receipt of the equivalent notice
from CCM Client Buyer if such notice is received between 9:00 a.m.
(Calculation Agent City time) and 4:00 p.m. (Calculation Agent City time) on a
Calculation Agent City Business Day. Any such notice received by CCM
Seller/Matched Buyer after 4:00 p.m. (Calculation Agent City time) on a
Calculation Agent City Business Day shall be deemed to have been received
at 9:00 a.m. (Calculation Agent City time) on the following Calculation Agent
City Business Day. Any such notice received by CCM Seller/Matched Buyer
before 9:00 a.m. (Calculation Agent City time) on a Calculation Agent City
Business Day shall be deemed to have been received at 9:00 a.m.
(Calculation Agent City time) on such Calculation Agent City Business Day.
Any such notice delivered on a day that is not a Calculation Agent City
Business Day shall be deemed to have been delivered at 9.00 a.m.
(Calculation Agent City time) on the following Calculation Agent City Business
Day.
The following provision shall solely be applicable in respect of a CCM Client
Transaction between a CCM Client Seller and its CCM Buyer/Matched Seller:
6.3

Receipt of Certain Notices by CCM Buyer/Matched Seller deemed to be
Receipt by CCM Client Seller
Any Credit Event Notice, Notice to Exercise Movement Option, Physical
Settlement Notice NOPS Amendment Notice, any notice given pursuant to
Section 8.2 (Notice of Physical Settlement) of the 2014 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions in respect of any Asset or Asset Package, any notice
given pursuant to Section 9.7 (Buy-in of Bonds Not Delivered) of the 2014
ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions or any notice given pursuant to Section
9.8 (Alternative Procedures Relating to Loans Not Delivered) of the 2014
ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions which is permitted to be and is delivered
manually by the relevant Matched Buyer to CCM Buyer/Matched Seller in
respect of and pursuant to the terms of a Restructuring Cleared Transaction
or Physically Settled Cleared Transaction (as applicable) relating to a CCM
Client Transaction between such CCM Buyer/Matched Seller and CCM Client
shall be deemed to constitute simultaneous delivery by CCM Buyer/Matched
103

Seller to CCM Client Seller of such notice in respect of such CCM Client
Transaction.
CCM Buyer/Matched Seller undertakes to deliver such a notice to CCM Client
Seller within two hours of its receipt of the equivalent notice from the relevant
Matched Buyer if such notice is received between 9:00 a.m. (Calculation
Agent City time) and 4:00 p.m. (Calculation Agent City time) on a Calculation
Agent City Business Day. Any such notice received by CCM Buyer/Matched
Seller after 4:00 p.m. (Calculation Agent City time) on a Calculation Agent
City Business Day shall be deemed to have been received at 9:00 a.m.
(Calculation Agent City time) on the following Calculation Agent City Business
Day. Any such notice received by CCM Buyer/Matched Seller before 9:00
a.m. (Calculation Agent City time) on a Calculation Agent City Business Day
shall be deemed to have been received at 9:00 a.m. (Calculation Agent City
time) on such Calculation Agent City Business Day. Any such notice
delivered on a day that is not a Calculation Agent City Business Day shall be
deemed to have been delivered at 9.00 a.m. (Calculation Agent City time) on
the following Calculation Agent City Business Day.
7.

Physical Settlement

7.1

Fallback to Cash Settlement resulting from corresponding CCM Client
Cleared Transaction
If a CCM notifies its CCM Client that the Physically Settled Cleared
Transaction corresponding to their CCM Client Transaction is to be settled (in
whole or in part) by Cash Settlement pursuant to Section 6 (Physical
Settlement) of the CDS Clearing Supplement and such CCM Client
Transaction has not already been settled by Physical Settlement, such CCM
Client Transaction shall also be settled (in whole or in part, as applicable) by
Cash Settlement and the Cash Settlement Amount and the Cash Settlement
Date shall be the same as the Cash Settlement Amount and the Cash
Settlement Date determined in respect of the corresponding Physically
Settled Cleared Transaction.
In respect of the CCM Client Transaction between CCM Client Buyer and
CCM Seller/Matched Buyer, if CCM Client Buyer has already Delivered the
Deliverable Obligations to CCM Seller/Matched Buyer, CCM Seller/Matched
Buyer shall redeliver equivalent Deliverable Obligations to CCM Client Buyer
in whole (if Cash Settlement applies) or in part (if Partial Cash Settlement
applies in which case CCM Seller/Matched Buyer shall retain a proportion of
the Deliverable Obligations equal to the proportion of the Transaction to be
settled by Physical Settlement).

7.2

Fallback to Cash Settlement in respect of Non-Deliverable Obligations
If, in respect of a CCM Client Transaction, Buyer is not permitted to Deliver
one or more Deliverable Obligations (such Deliverable Obligations, the Non104

Deliverable Obligations) specified in the relevant Notice of Physical
Settlement or NOPS Amendment Notice to Seller because:
(i)

the amount of such Deliverable Obligation is less than the
relevant minimum denomination of such Deliverable Obligation;
or

(ii)

Seller is not a permitted transferee under such Deliverable
Obligation (and, in the case of this sub-section (ii), such
circumstance would not constitute an illegality or impossibility
outside the control of a relevant party for the purposes of Section
9.1 (Partial Cash Settlement Due to Impossibility or Illegality) of
the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions),

then it shall notify Seller accordingly describing in reasonable detail the
relevant circumstances.
With effect from such notification, such occurrence shall be treated, in relation
to such CCM Client Transaction, as an illegality or impossibility outside the
control of a relevant party for the purpose of Section 9.1 (Partial Cash
Settlement Due to Impossibility or Illegality) of the 2014 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions and "Cash Settlement" pursuant to the Partial Cash
Settlement Terms shall be deemed to apply to such CCM Client Transaction
with respect to the Non-Deliverable Obligations as though the NonDeliverable Obligations were Undeliverable Obligations and the provisions
set out in Mandatory Provision 7.3 (Consequences of Cash Settlement)
below shall apply.
7.3

Consequences of Cash Settlement
If the circumstances set out in either Section ‎9.1 (Partial Cash Settlement
Due to Impossibility or Illegality) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions or Mandatory Provision ‎7.2 (Fallback to Cash Settlement in
respect of Non-Deliverable Obligations) apply to a CCM Client Transaction,
then:
(a)

the Latest Permissible Physical Settlement Date in respect of such
CCM Client Transaction will be deemed to be the first date on which the
relevant Buyer or Seller effectively gave the relevant notice to the other
pursuant to either Section ‎9.1 (Partial Cash Settlement Due to
Impossibility or Illegality) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions or Mandatory Provision ‎7.2 (Fallback to Cash Settlement in
respect of Non-Deliverable Obligations) above, as applicable, (and for
these purposes, Section 9.5 (Latest Permissible Physical Settlement
Date) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions shall not apply);
and

105

(b)

7.4

where sub-paragraph (ii) of Mandatory Provision ‎7.2 (Fallback to Cash
Settlement in respect of Non-Deliverable Obligations) applies,
Indicative Quotations shall not be applicable.

Asset Package Delivery
If Asset Package Delivery is applicable in respect of a Physically Settled
Cleared Transaction and an Asset to be delivered is a Non-Transferable
Instrument or Non-Financial Instrument, then the Asset shall be deemed to be
an amount of cash equal to the value determined by the CDSClear Product
Committee (which, notwithstanding anything to the contrary shall be the
"Calculation Agent" for the purposes of Section 8.15 (Asset Market Value) of
the 2014 IDSA Credit Derivatives Definitions).
If a CCM notifies its CCM Client that Asset Package Delivery is applicable in
respect of the Physically Settled Cleared Transaction corresponding to their
CCM Client Transaction and such CCM Client Transaction has not already
been settled by Physical Settlement and the relevant Asset Package
comprises Assets in the form of cash in the Settlement Currency (whether
pursuant to Section 8.12(b)(v) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions
or otherwise) then Asset Package Delivery shall also apply in respect of such
CCM Client Transaction and
(i)

the Physical Settlement Amount in respect of such CCM Client
Transaction shall be an amount equal to the Physical Settlement
Amount minus the Asset Package Cash Settlement Amount
determined in respect of the corresponding Physically Settled
Cleared Transaction; and

(ii)

the only Assets to be Delivered in respect of such CCM Client
Transaction shall be such Assets as are Delivered in respect of
the corresponding Physically Settled Cleared Transaction.

The following provisions shall solely be applicable in respect of a CCM Client
Transaction between a CCM Client Buyer and its CCM Seller/Matched Buyer:
7.5

Delivery of Deliverable Obligations by CCM Client Buyer to CCM
Seller/Matched Buyer
This Mandatory Provision 7.5 shall be applicable unless the CCM Client
Buyer and CCM Seller/Matched Buyer agree that it shall not apply in
respect of a specific CCM Client Transaction.
In respect of a CCM Client Transaction, the Delivery of any Deliverable
Obligations (or if Asset Package Delivery is applicable, the Assets) to be
Delivered by CCM Client Buyer to CCM Seller/Matched Buyer shall be
deemed not to have occurred for the purposes of such CCM Client
Transaction unless and until CCM Seller/Matched Buyer Delivers equivalent
106

Deliverable Obligations or Assets to Matched Seller pursuant to the Physical
Settlement of the corresponding Physically Settled Cleared Transaction.
Unless in respect of the corresponding Physically Settled Cleared
Transactions:
(a)

Cash Settlement is applicable (in whole or in part);

(b)

a Buy-in Period is applicable or Buy-in Price has been determined
pursuant to Section 9.7 (Buy-in of Bonds Not Delivered) of the 2014
ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions;

(c)

a Deemed Buy-in Period is applicable pursuant to Section 6.8(b)(i) of
the CDS Clearing Supplement or Section 6.8(b)(ii) of the CDS Clearing
Supplement is applicable;

(d)

Section 9.8(i) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions is
applicable or Matched Seller has required Matched Buyer to Deliver a
Bond or Loan pursuant to Section 9.8(ii) of the 2014 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions; or

(e)

Matched Seller has required Matched Buyer to Deliver a Deliverable
Obligation pursuant to Section 9.9 (Alternative Procedures Relating to
Assets Not Delivered) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions,

(each such event, a "Non-delivery Event"), CCM Seller/Matched Buyer
undertakes to Deliver the Deliverable Obligations (or such portion of the
Deliverable Obligations not affected by a Non-delivery Event) or, if Asset
Package Delivery is applicable, the Assets, to Matched Seller not later than
the first Business Day after the day on which a trade in such Deliverable
Obligation(s) or Assets would, if effected on the day on which CCM
Seller/Matched Buyer received the Deliverable Obligations or Assets from
CCM Client Buyer or on which the relevant Non-delivery Event ceased to
apply, as applicable, (or if such day is not a Business Day, the following
Business Day), be settled in accordance with then current market practice of
such Deliverable Obligations or Assets, as the case may be, as determined
by the Calculation Agent after consultation with the parties.
For the purposes of Article VIII (Terms relating to Physical Settlement) of the
2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions, the Physical Settlement Amount
shall not be payable by CCM Seller/Matched Buyer to CCM Client Buyer in
respect of the CCM Client Transaction until the Physical Settlement of the
corresponding Physically Settled Cleared Transaction has occurred.
7.6

Buy-in of Bonds not Applicable
Section 9.7 (Buy-in of Bonds Not Delivered) of the 2014 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions shall not apply.
107

7.7

Buyer's Right to Deliver suspended during Buy-in Period
If CCM Seller/Matched Buyer notifies CCM Client Buyer in respect of a CCM
Client Transaction that (i) it has received a Buy-in Notice from Matched Seller
in respect of the Matched Contracts of the related Settlement Matched Pair or
(ii) it has been notified by Matched Seller in respect of the Matched Contracts
of the related Settlement Matched Pair pursuant to Section 6.8(b) (Deemed
Buy-in of Bonds resulting from CCM Client Transaction of Matched Seller) of
the CDS Clearing Supplement that such Matched Seller has received a Buyin Notice from its CCM Client in respect of the CCM Client Transaction
between such Matched Seller and its CCM Client, such notice from CCM
Seller/Matched Buyer specifying:
i)

the Buy-in Date;

ii)

the Relevant Bonds; and

iii)

the outstanding principal balance thereof sought to be bought-in,

then CCM Client Buyer's right to Deliver the specified Relevant Bonds shall
be suspended until the fourth Business Day (inclusive) following such Buy-in
Date.
7.8

Buy-in of Bonds in respect of Matched Contracts of the Settlement Matched
Pair
Provided that Physical Settlement has not already occurred in respect of a
CCM Client Transaction, if CCM Seller/Matched Buyer notifies CCM Client
Buyer that a Buy-in Price has been (i) determined or (ii) deemed to be
determined pursuant to Section 6.8(b) (Deemed Buy-in of Bonds resulting
from CCM Client Transaction of Matched Seller) of the CDS Clearing
Supplement, in respect of Relevant Bonds for the purposes of the Matched
Contracts of the related Settlement Matched Pair, then on the Buy-in
Effective Date:
i)

CCM Client Buyer will be deemed to have Delivered to CCM
Seller/Matched Buyer an outstanding principal balance of the
Deliverable Obligations equal to the outstanding principal balance of
the Deliverable Obligations Delivered or deemed to be Delivered by
CCM Seller/Matched Buyer to Matched Seller in respect of the
Matched Contracts; and

ii)

the Physical Settlement Amount to be paid by CCM Seller/Matched
Buyer to CCM Client Buyer in respect of this CCM Client Transaction
shall be reduced (but not below zero) by an amount equal to the
amount by which the Physical Settlement Amount to be paid to CCM
Seller/Matched Buyer by Matched Seller in respect of the Matched
Contracts is to be reduced.
108

CCM Seller/Matched Buyer shall notify CCM Client Buyer of such outstanding
principal balance of the Deliverable Obligations and such Physical Settlement
Amount reduction for the purposes of ‎i) and ‎ii) above and of the Buy-in
Effective Date.
If CCM Client Buyer has already Delivered Deliverable Obligations to CCM
Seller/Matched Buyer, CCM Seller/Matched Buyer shall redeliver equivalent
Deliverable Obligations to CCM Client Buyer and such equivalent Deliverable
Obligations shall have an outstanding principal balance equal to the
outstanding principal balance of the Deliverable Obligation(s) specified by
CCM Seller/Matched Buyer in the above notice and deemed to have been
Delivered by CCM Client Buyer to CCM Seller/Matched Buyer pursuant to
this Mandatory Provision 7.8.
7.9

Alternative Procedures relating to Loans – Seller Right to Select
Section 9.8(ii) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions shall not apply.

7.10

Alternative Procedures relating to Loans – Seller designates alternative Loan
or Bond
In respect of a CCM Client Transaction, CCM Seller/Matched Buyer shall
notify CCM Client Buyer if it has purchased Bond(s) and/or Loan(s) pursuant
to Section 9.8(ii) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions on the
instructions of the Matched Seller in respect of the corresponding CCM Client
Cleared Transaction.
Following such notification, such Bond(s) and/or Loan(s) shall be deemed to
have been Delivered by CCM Client Buyer to CCM Seller/Matched Buyer in
Physical Settlement of the CCM Client Transaction and the Physical
Settlement Amount payable by CCM Seller/Matched Buyer to CCM Client
Buyer shall be reduced (but not below zero) by an amount equal to the price
at which such Bond(s) and or Loan(s) were purchased.
CCM Seller/Matched Buyer shall provide CCM Client Buyer with details of
such Bond(s) and/or Loan(s) and the related purchase price(s) in such notice.
If CCM Client Buyer has already Delivered Deliverable Obligations to CCM
Seller/Matched Buyer, CCM Seller/Matched Buyer shall redeliver equivalent
Deliverable Obligations to CCM Client Buyer and such equivalent Deliverable
Obligations shall have an outstanding principal balance equal to the
outstanding principal balance of the Bond(s) and/or Loan(s) specified by
CCM Seller/Matched Buyer in the above notice and deemed to have been
Delivered by CCM Client Buyer to CCM Seller/Matched Buyer pursuant to
this Mandatory Provision 7.10.

109

7.11

Alternative Procedures relating to Assets Not Delivered
Section 9.9 (Alternative Procedures Relating to Assets Not Delivered) of the
2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions shall not apply.

7.12

Alternative Procedures relating to Assets Not Delivered – Seller designates
alternative Deliverable Obligation(s)
In respect of a CCM Client Transaction, CCM Seller/Matched Buyer shall
notify CCM Client Buyer if it has purchased one or more Deliverable
Obligations pursuant to Section 9.9 (Alternative Procedures Relating to
Assets Not Delivered) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives on the instructions
of the Matched Seller in respect of the corresponding CCM Client Cleared
Transaction.
Following such notification, such Deliverable Obligations shall be deemed to
have been Delivered by CCM Client Buyer to CCM Seller/Matched Buyer in
Physical Settlement of the CCM Client Transaction and the Physical
Settlement Amount payable by CCM Seller/Matched Buyer to CCM Client
Buyer shall be reduced (but not below zero) by an amount equal to the price
at which such Deliverable Obligations were purchased.
CCM Seller/Matched Buyer shall provide CCM Client Buyer with details of
such Deliverable Obligation(s) and the related purchase price(s) in such
notice.
If CCM Client Buyer has already Delivered Deliverable Obligations to CCM
Seller/Matched Buyer, CCM Seller/Matched Buyer shall redeliver equivalent
Deliverable Obligations to CCM Client Buyer and such equivalent Deliverable
Obligations shall have an outstanding principal balance equal to the
outstanding principal balance of the Deliverable Obligation(s) specified by
CCM Seller/Matched Buyer in the above notice and deemed to have been
Delivered by CCM Client Buyer to CCM Seller/Matched Buyer pursuant to
this Mandatory Provision 7.12.

The following provisions shall solely be applicable in respect of a CCM Client
Transaction between CCM Client Seller and CCM Buyer/Matched Seller:
7.13

Delivery of Deliverable Obligations to CCM Client Seller
This Mandatory Provision 7.13 shall be applicable unless the CCM
Client Seller and CCM Buyer/Matched Seller agree that it shall not apply
in respect of a specific CCM Client Transaction.
Subject to the proviso below, in respect of a CCM Client Transaction, the
Delivery of any Deliverable Obligations (or if Asset Package Delivery is
applicable, the Assets) to be Delivered by CCM Buyer/Matched Seller to
110

CCM Client Seller shall be deemed to have occurred for the purposes of such
CCM Client Transaction upon receipt by CCM Buyer/Matched Seller of the
Deliverable Obligations or Assets in respect of the Physical Settlement of the
related Physically Settled Cleared Transaction; provided, however, that if the
CCM Client Transaction is to be settled by Cash Settlement (in whole or in
part) pursuant to Section 9.1 (Partial Cash Settlement Due to Impossibility or
Illegality) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions or Mandatory
Provision 7.2 (Fallback to Cash Settlement in respect of Non-Deliverable
Obligations) then such portion of the CCM Client Transaction which is to be
settled by Cash Settlement shall not be deemed to be settled until such Cash
Settlement occurs.
Provided that Cash Settlement is not applicable, CCM Buyer/Matched Seller
undertakes to Deliver the Deliverable Obligations or Assets to CCM Client
Seller not later than the first Business Day after the day on which a trade in
such Deliverable Obligations or Assets would, if effected on the day on which
CCM Buyer/Matched Seller received the Deliverable Obligations or Assets
from Matched Buyer (or if such day is not a Business Day, the following
Business Day), be settled in accordance with then current market practice of
such Deliverable Obligations or Assets, as the case may be, as determined
by the Calculation Agent after consultation with the parties.
7.14

Alternative Procedures relating to Loans – Seller Right to Select
Section 9.8(ii) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions shall not apply.

7.15

Alternative Procedures relating to Loans in respect of Matched Contracts
In respect of a CCM Client Transaction, if CCM Buyer/Matched Seller notifies
CCM Client Seller that a Bond or Loan has been deemed specified in a
NOPS Amendment Notice in respect of the Matched Contracts of the
Settlement Matched Pair that corresponds to such CCM Client Transaction
pursuant to (i) Sections 9.8(i) or (ii) or (b) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions or (ii) Section 6.9 (Alternative Procedures Relating to Loans Not
Delivered – Buyer Right to Deliver) of the CDS Clearing Supplement, then
then for the purposes of the Matched Contracts of the related Settlement
Matched Pair such Bond or Loan shall be deemed to have been specified in
a NOPS Amendment Notice in respect of such CCM Client Transaction and
such NOPS Amendment Notice will be effective notwithstanding the fact that
it is deemed specified after the Physical Settlement Date.
.

111

7.16

Alternative Procedures relating to Assets Not Delivered
Section 9.9 (Alternative Procedures relating to Assets Not Delivered) of the
2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions shall not apply.

7.17

Alternative Procedures relating to Assets Not Delivered
In respect of a CCM Client Transaction, if CCM Buyer / Matched Seller
notifies CCM Client Seller that a Deliverable Obligation has been deemed
specified in a NOPS Amendment Notice in respect of the Material Contracts
of the Settlement Pair that corresponds to such CCM Client Transaction
pursuant to Section 9.9 (Alternative Procedures Relating to Assets Not
Delivered) of the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions then for the
purposes of the Matched Contracts of the related Settlement Matched Pair
such Deliverable Obligation shall be deemed to have been specified in a
NOPS Amendment Notice in respect of such CCM Client Transaction and
such NOPS Amendment Notice will be effective notwithstanding the fact that
it is deemed specified after the Physical Settlement Date.

8.

Self Referencing Transactions

8.1

Section 11.4 (Merger of Reference Entity and Seller) of the 2014 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions
Section 11.4 (Merger of Reference Entity and Seller) of the 2014 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions shall not apply.

8.2

Notification of Self Referencing Transactions
In respect of any Single Name CCM Client Transaction, the CCM Client shall,
unless prohibited from so doing by applicable law, notify the CCM as soon as
reasonably practicable if:
iv)

the CCM Client is or consolidates or amalgamates with, or merges
into, or transfers all or substantially all of its assets to, the Reference
Entity in relation to such Single Name CCM Client Transaction or
enters into any agreement in respect of any of the foregoing;

v)

the CCM Client and the Reference Entity in relation to such Single
Name CCM Client Transaction are or become Affiliates; or

vi)

in respect of a Restructuring CCM Client Transaction, the CCM Client
is or becomes the Reference Entity in relation to such Restructuring
CCM Client Transaction as a result of the occurrence of the relevant
Restructuring Credit Event.

112

8.3

Termination of Self Referencing Transactions
A CCM Client Transaction shall be terminated (unless it has already been
terminated) at the same time as the termination of the corresponding Single
Name Cleared Transaction pursuant to Section 9.1 (Occurrence of Self
Referencing Transaction) or Section 9.2 (Occurrence of Self Referencing
Transactions in respect of Clients) of the CDS Clearing Supplement and by
reference to the price at which such Single Name Cleared Transaction is
terminated and an amount will be payable:

8.4

(a)

if the CCM receives an amount from LCH.Clearnet SA in relation to
such Single Name Cleared Transaction pursuant to Section 9.1
(Occurrence of Self Referencing Transaction) or Section 9.2 (Occurrence
of Self Referencing Transactions in respect of Clients), by the CCM to the
CCM Client equal to such amount and on the Business Day following
receipt by the CCM of such amount from LCH.Clearnet SA; and

(b)

if the CCM is obliged to pay an amount to LCH.Clearnet SA in
relation to such Single Name Cleared Transaction pursuant to Section 9.1
(Occurrence of Self Referencing Transaction) or Section 9.2 (Occurrence
of Self Referencing Transactions in respect of Clients), by the CCM Client
to the CCM equal to such amount and on the later of (I) the Business Day
prior to the day on which the CCM is obliged to pay such amount to
LCH.Clearnet SA and (II) the Business Day following the Business Day on
which the CCM gives notices to the CCM Client of the relevant amount.

Costs of Terminating Self Referencing Transactions
Without prejudice to any other indemnity agreed between the CCM and the
CCM Client in relation to CCM Client Transactions, the CCM Client agrees to
indemnify and hold harmless the CCM from and against all costs and
expenses that the CCM is obliged to bear pursuant to Section 9.1
(Occurrence of Self Referencing Transaction) or Section 9.2 (Occurrence of
Self Referencing Transactions in respect of Clients) of the CDS Clearing
Supplement.

8.5

Compression of Self Referencing Transactions
Where the CCM acts as Matched Buyer and Matched Seller in respect of
fungible Single Name Cleared Transactions that have a corresponding CCM
Client Transaction in respect of which CCM has given notice to LCH.Clearnet
SA pursuant to Section 9.1 (Occurrence of Self Referencing Transaction) of
the CDS Clearing Supplement or in respect of which CCM Client has given
notice to CCM pursuant to Mandatory Provision 8.2 (Notification of Self
Referencing Transactions) and the relevant Single Name Cleared
Transactions are compressed pursuant to Section 9.1 (Occurrence of Self
Referencing Transaction) or Section 9.2 (Occurrence of Self Referencing
Transactions in respect of Clients) of the CDS Clearing Supplement, the
113

CCM Client will be deemed to have submitted to CCM a request to compress
the corresponding CCM Client Transactions.
9.

Calculation Agent

9.1

Appointment of Calculation Agent
The Calculation Agent in respect of any CCM Client Transaction shall be the
CCM.

9.2

Calculations and Determinations of Calculation Agent
In the event that the Calculation Agent is entitled or required to make any
calculation or determination in respect of a CCM Client Transaction in respect
of a matter that has already been or will be determined in respect of and
pursuant to the terms of the corresponding CCM Client Cleared Transaction,
the Calculation Agent in respect of the CCM Client Transaction shall be
obliged to make the same calculation or determination in respect of such
CCM Client Transaction as the determination in respect of the corresponding
CCM Client Cleared Transaction (including, without limitation, any
determination of any Cash Settlement Amount payable in respect of the CCM
Client Transaction).

10.

Amendments
The Mandatory Provisions may be amended from time to time pursuant to
Section 11 (Amendments) of the CDS Clearing Supplement. The parties
agree that any amendments made to the Mandatory Provisions in
accordance with Section 11 (Amendments) of the CDS Clearing Supplement
shall be deemed to apply automatically to the CCM Client Transaction(s) with
effect from the date of such amendment to the Mandatory Provisions.

114

EXHIBIT E-6.1

LCH.Clearnet SA
CDS Clearing Procedures
Section 1 – Membership
22.09.2014

CDS Clearing Procedures

Membership

CONTENTS

SECTION 1 - MEMBERSHIP

1.1

APPLICATION PROCEDURE ................................................................................... 1

1.2

SETTLEMENT FINALITY DIRECTIVE ...................................................................... 6

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2014

ii

Published on 18 September 2014

CDS Clearing Procedures
1.1

Membership

APPLICATION PROCEDURE
(a)

Indicative timeline for an application
The following is an indicative, non-binding timeline for the processing of an
application. The exact period to process an application will depend on the
circumstances; for example, the period may be longer where LCH.Clearnet
SA requests that the Applicant provides further information or a legal opinion
is required to be issued.

(b)

Initial review
An Applicant shall first submit an initial query to LCH.Clearnet SA’s
membership department or CDSClear Client Services & Relationship
Management department, which, in turn, will request such Applicant to provide
the following:
(i)

the most recent annual financial statements along with any interim
statements of such Applicant; and

(ii)

details of any implicit or explicit support available from group or
external entities.

Following receipt of the information and documents listed in sub-paragraphs
(i) and (ii) above, LCH.Clearnet SA will carry out an initial review to assess
the credit risk of the Applicant. LCH.Clearnet SA shall endeavour to review
the information and documents within 5 Business Days from receipt by
LCH.Clearnet SA but owes no duty or obligation to the Applicant to do so.
Following completion of the initial review, LCH.Clearnet SA will:
(x)

either confirm that the Applicant may submit the LCH.Clearnet SA’s
admission form relating to the CDS Clearing Service which is available
on the Website (the “CDSClear Admission Form”). In such a case,
the next steps of the application process as set out in sub-paragraphs
(c) to (j) below will apply; or

(y)

refuses admission of the Applicant.

The decision of LCH.Clearnet SA shall be communicated to the Applicant by
registered mail. Where an Applicant was refused admission, the decision of
LCH.Clearnet SA will indicate the reasons why membership was refused.
(c)

Application process
Where the country of incorporation of the Applicant is not covered by an
existing legal opinion, which will require LCH.Clearnet SA to provide the
relevant legal opinion, the indicative timeline as set out in this sub-paragraph
(c) below will be extended from 30 Business Days to 2 months from receipt of
the CDSClear Admission Form and required supported documents by
LCH.Clearnet SA (including any additional information or documents
requested by LCH.Clearnet SA).

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2014

1

Published on 18 September 2014

CDS Clearing Procedures

Membership

Day 1
CDSClear Admission Form and other supporting documents are submitted by
an Applicant.
Day 1 to 30
Application is reviewed by LCH.Clearnet SA and due diligence is carried out
on the Applicant which may include a site visit.
Day 30
Application is either: rejected, accepted or accepted with conditions.
(d)

CDSClear Admission Form
An Applicant shall complete the CDSClear Admission Form. The Applicant
must complete all sections of the CDSClear Admission Form and provide all
documents required to be submitted with the CDSClear Admission Form. For
further information please contact the CDSClear Client Services &
Relationship
Management
department
by
email
at
cdsclear_clientservices@lchclearnet.com or on +33 1 70376776.
LCH.Clearnet SA has the right, at its sole discretion, to amend the CDSClear
Admission Form.
If an Applicant is an existing clearing member of another clearing service
provided by the LCH.Clearnet Group, then LCH.Clearnet SA may waive the
requirement to provide certain documents on the basis that LCH.Clearnet SA
already holds the relevant information. The CDSClear Client Services &
Relationship Management department will notify an Applicant that is an
existing clearing member as to the documents it will be required to provide.
Application fees are displayed on the Website.

(e)

Due diligence and review process
An Applicant must accept that during the review process LCH.Clearnet SA:
(i)

is entitled to make enquiries of any nature about the Applicant and any
person connected or associated with the Applicant;

(ii)

is entitled to ask the Applicant to supply additional information and
take whatever steps are necessary to verify information;

(iii)

is entitled to provide and/or disclose information to a Competent
Authority, Regulatory Body, LCH.Clearnet SA's insurers in connection
with any form of insurance, or otherwise in accordance with the CDS
Clearing Documentation;

(iv)

is entitled to request that operational tests are carried out to ensure
that the Applicant is operationally capable of using the CDS Clearing
Service; and

(v)

may disclose to a third party (for example, technology providers or
settlement service providers) the name, address, registered number

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2014

2

Published on 18 September 2014

CDS Clearing Procedures

Membership

and details of any exchange or clearing memberships held or applied
for to the extent that such disclosure is required to facilitate the
Applicant’s membership application.
During the review process, the Applicant must notify LCH.Clearnet SA by
email to the CDSClear Client Services & Relationship Management
department at cdsclear_clientservices@lchclearnet.com of changes to the:
(i)

information and any other documentation supplied (at any stage) to
LCH.Clearnet SA with the CDSClear Admission Form and/or in
support of the application; and

(ii)

facts and circumstances concerning the Applicant which would affect
its ability to perform its obligations under the CDS Clearing
Documentation and/or the orderly conduct of its activities as a
Clearing Member.

LCH.Clearnet SA shall endeavour to review the information and documents in
the application within one month or two months if a legal opinion is required to
be issued, if applicable, from receipt by LCH.Clearnet SA (including any
additional information or documents requested by LCH.Clearnet SA) but owes
no duty or obligation to the Applicant to do so.
As part of the review process the Applicant may expect at least one visit to
the Applicant’s operations office by one or more LCH.Clearnet SA
representatives (which may include any of LCH.Clearnet SA’s third party
advisers). LCH.Clearnet SA will give an Applicant reasonable advance notice
of any proposed visit. An Applicant may refuse access to any or all
LCH.Clearnet SA representatives or third party advisers but any such refusal
of access may result in the application process being delayed and/or
LCH.Clearnet SA being unable to process the Applicant’s application. During
this visit the Applicant should be able to show the LCH.Clearnet SA
representatives the following:
(i)

operational personnel – who may be questioned to identify their
individual knowledge of CDS;

(ii)

computer systems; and

(iii)

on-site procedures.

The decision of LCH.Clearnet SA shall be communicated to the Applicant at
the address specified in the application by registered mail.
LCH.Clearnet SA may refuse an Applicant admission to membership if the
conditions set out in Article 2.2.1.1 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book have not
been satisfied or if it considers that such admission may adversely affect the
operation of the CDS Clearing System or the provision of the CDS Clearing
Service.
Where an Applicant was refused admission the decision of LCH.Clearnet SA
will indicate the reasons why membership was refused.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2014

3

Published on 18 September 2014

CDS Clearing Procedures
(f)

Membership

Fulfilment of any conditions attached to approval
LCH.Clearnet SA may impose conditions or limitations on the exercise of
certain rights under the CDS Clearing Documentation, provided that such
conditions or limitations are imposed without discrimination.
If the Applicant is approved as a Clearing Member it shall, before submission
of its first Original Transaction for registration and clearing by LCH.Clearnet
SA:
(i)

provide LCH.Clearnet SA with (x) a duly signed copy of the CDS
Admission Agreement and the Access Agreement (which enables
access to the CDS Clearing System and is available on the Website)
and (y) any remaining documents and information as notified in the
approval letter; and

(ii)

comply with all requirements set out in Title II of the CDS Clearing
Rule Book.

A Clearing Member must begin clearing operations within six months after
LCH.Clearnet SA provides notice of its admission, unless LCH.Clearnet SA
agrees to extend the time limits. Where the Clearing Member fails to start
clearing operations within six months, the admission decision shall be
automatically revoked and any new admission will require compliance with the
provisions of this Paragraph 1.1.
(g)

The provision of CDS Client Clearing Services by a Clearing Member
Pursuant to Article 5.1.1.1 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, a Clearing
Member must, in respect of each prospective Client, provide LCH.Clearnet
SA with:
(i)

a form relating to the provision of CDS Client Clearing Services (the
“Client Clearing Form”) which is available upon request to
LCH.Clearnet SA’s CDSClear Client Services & Relationship
Management department (cdsclear_clientservices@lchclearnet.com,
+33 1 70376776); and

(ii)

all documents required to be submitted with the Client Clearing Form.

LCH.Clearnet SA shall:
(i)

review the Client Clearing Form and the related supporting
documents; and

(ii)

endeavour to confirm, within 10 Business Days from the date of their
receipt, that the Client Clearing Form and the related supporting
documents have been duly filled and submitted (the “Confirmation
Notice”).

The Confirmation Notice takes the form of an email sent to the person
designated as the relevant contact in the Client Clearing Form.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2014

4

Published on 18 September 2014

CDS Clearing Procedures

Membership

The Clearing Member may start providing CDS Client Clearing Services to
the relevant Client 5 Business Days from the receipt of the Confirmation
Notice.
In respect of a Clearing Member which submits its first Client Clearing Form,
the above-mentioned timeline is subject to:
(i)

the successful completion of the operational tests requested by
LCH.Clearnet SA to ensure that the Clearing Member is operationally
capable of using the LCH.Clearnet SA’s client clearing platform; and

(ii)

the putting in place of a Power of Attorney in respect of one of its
TARGET2 Accounts for the purposes of posting Collateral in respect
of its Client Margin Accounts in accordance with Article 2.2.7.5 of the
CDS Clearing Rule Book and Section 3 of the Procedures.

Where CDS Client Clearing Services are provided by a CCM to a CCM
Individual Segregated Account Client which is, in turn, providing indirect
clearing services to its CCM Indirect Clients, the CCM will request
LCH.Clearnet SA to open a CCM Indirect Client Segregated Account
Structure in respect of all the CCM Indirect Clients of such CCM Individual
Segregated Account Structure by submitting a form which is available upon
request to LCH.Clearnet SA’s CDSClear Client Services & Relationship
Management department (cdsclear_clientservices@lchclearnet.com, +33 1
70376776).
LCH.Clearnet SA will confirm, within 2 Business Days from the date of their
receipt, that the form has been duly filled and submitted, by sending an email
to the person designated as the relevant contact in the submitted form.
The CCM Indirect Client Segregated Account Structure will be opened by
LCH.Clearnet SA 5 Business Days from the receipt of the e-mail referred to in
the previous paragraph.
Branches
(a)

Each branch of a Clearing Member that wishes to use the CDS Clearing
Service must complete a reduced CDSClear Admission Form and be
approved by LCH.Clearnet SA at its sole discretion. Further details relating to
the CDSClear Admission Form or the application process for branches can be
obtained from the CDSClear Client Services & Relationship Management
department by email at cdsclear_clientservices@lchclearnet.com or on +33 1
70376776.

(b)

Clearing codes
This paragraph applies to a branch that has been accepted to participate in
the CDS Clearing Service.
If the branch has a TIW Participant code that is different to that of the existing
Clearing Member’s, that branch will be assigned its own separate clearing
code.
Although each branch is the same legal entity as the relevant Clearing
Member, for operational purposes, each clearing code is treated as though it

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2014

5

Published on 18 September 2014

CDS Clearing Procedures

Membership

is a separate clearing member. For example, each clearing code will be
allocated to an Account Structure that will record Cleared Transactions, will
have its own Margin Requirements and will be required to transfer requisite
Collateral in respect of such Margin Requirements. Additionally, each branch
(operating under a separate clearing code) is required make a separate
Contribution to the CDS Default Fund.
(c)

Participation in the CDS Clearing Service
Each Clearing Member participates in the CDS Clearing Service as single
entity, irrespective of the number of participating branches and clearing
codes. In particular, each Clearing Member: (i) may have a maximum of one
representative on the CDS Default Management Group; and (ii) will have one
vote for the purposes of Article 1.2.2.7. An Event of Default which is declared
in respect of a Clearing Member will apply in respect of all its clearing codes
and branches.

1.2

SETTLEMENT FINALITY DIRECTIVE
The following information is provided for the purpose of Article 1.0.1.2 of the CDS
Clearing Rule Book.
Article R.330-3 of the French Monetary and Financial Code (Code Monétaire et
Financier) which implements articles 6 and 10 of the Directive n°98/26/CE into
French law, states that any person with a legitimate interest can obtain information
about a system notified to the European Commission and its rules from its
participants, upon request. A participant can fulfil its information obligation by
referring to the rules approved by the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (www.amffrance.org). The rules approved by the Autorité des Marchés Financiers are the rules
in the CDS Clearing Documentation.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2014

6

Published on 18 September 2014

EXHIBIT E-6.2

LCH.Clearnet SA
CDS Clearing Procedures
Section 2 – Margin and Price Alignment Interest
18 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Contents
CONTENTS

SECTION 2 – MARGIN AND PRICE ALIGNMENT INTEREST

2.1

OVERVIEW ............................................................................................................... 1

2.2

MARGIN .................................................................................................................... 1

2.3

EXCESS COLLATERAL AND THE CLIENT COLLATERAL BUFFER ....................... 4

2.4

COLLATERAL AND CASH PAYMENTS ................................................................... 6

2.5

PAYMENT OF THE MARGIN REQUIREMENT, VARIATION MARGIN AND
PROVISION OF EXCESS COLLATERAL AND CLIENT COLLATERAL BUFFER .... 7

2.6

REPORTS ............................................................................................................... 10

2.7

INITIAL
MARGIN,
SHORT
CHARGE
MARGIN,
SELF-REFERENCING
PROTECTION MARGIN, RECOVERY RISK MARGIN AND INTEREST RATE RISK
MARGIN AND WRONG WAY RISK MARGIN ......................................................... 10

2.8

LIQUIDITY AND CONCENTRATION RISK MARGIN .............................................. 12

2.9

ACCRUED FIXED AMOUNT LIQUIDATION RISK MARGIN ................................... 13

2.10

CREDIT EVENT MARGIN ....................................................................................... 13

2.11

ADDITIONAL MARGIN ............................................................................................ 14

2.12

VARIATION MARGIN .............................................................................................. 14

2.13

CONTINGENCY VARIATION MARGIN ................................................................... 15

2.14

PRICE ALIGNMENT INTEREST ............................................................................. 16

2.15

CREDIT QUALITY MARGIN.................................................................................... 17

2.16

EXTRAORDINARY MARGIN .................................................................................. 17

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

- ii -

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Margin and Price Alignment Interest

Capitalised terms used in this Margin and Price Alignment Interest Procedure and not
otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning given pursuant to the remainder of the CDS
Clearing Documentation, as such term is defined in the document entitled "CDS Clearing
Rule Book" published by LCH.Clearnet SA, as amended from time to time.
2.1

Overview

All Clearing Members are required to pay Margin to LCH.Clearnet SA.
Further information about the Margin components and the calculation methodology in
respect of each such component set out in this Section 2 is available to Clearing Members
on the secure section of the Website and through any reporting mechanism specified in a
Clearing Notice and/or upon request from LCH.Clearnet SA’s Risk Management Department
on +33 1 70 37 10 43 or Lchclearnetsa_CDS_Risk@lchclearnet.com. Such information will
be updated and/or re-issued following consultation with the Risk Committee.
Section 3 of the Procedures provides further detail of how Collateral should be transferred,
and Cash Payments made, by Clearing Members to LCH.Clearnet SA.
2.2

Margin

(a)

Margin Requirement
For each Margin Account of each Clearing Member, the Margin Requirement consists
of the following components:
(i)

Initial Margin;

(ii)

Short Charge Margin;

(iii)

Recovery Risk Margin;

(iv)

Self-Referencing Protection Margin;

(v)

Interest Rate Risk Margin;

(vi)

Liquidity and Concentration Risk Margin;

(vii)

Wrong Way Risk Margin;

(viii)

Accrued Fixed Amount Liquidation Risk Margin;

(ix)

Credit Event Margin;

(x)

Additional Margin;

(xi)

in respect of the House Margin Requirement only: Credit Quality Margin;

(xii)

Contingency Variation Margin; and

(xiii)

Extraordinary Margin.

Details of each of these components are set out below.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

1

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures
(b)

Margin and Price Alignment Interest

Timing for calculation of the Margin Requirement
LCH.Clearnet SA will calculate the Margin Requirement for each Margin Account of
each Clearing Member on each Business Day:
(i)

by no later than 04:00 CET, which will be the Margin Requirement for the
Morning Call; and

(ii)

whenever a position corresponding to the relevant trade leg of an Eligible
Intraday Transaction is pre-registered in the relevant Clearing Member’s
Account Structure, in accordance with Section 3.1.7 of the CDS Clearing Rule
Book, and the Intraday Novation Margin Requirement is calculated. The most
recently calculated Margin Requirement for each Margin Account will be the
Margin Requirement used for each of the First Intraday Call and the Second
Intraday Call.

LCH.Clearnet SA will notify each Clearing Member of the Margin Requirement for
each of its Margin Accounts through the relevant Margin Requirements Results
File(s), in each case in accordance with, subject to and at the times set out in Section
5 of the Procedures.
(c)

Variation Margin Requirement
Each Clearing Member is required to pay to LCH.Clearnet SA (or is entitled to receive
from LCH.Clearnet SA, as applicable) Variation Margin to cover its Total Client
Variation Margin Requirement and/or its House Variation Margin Requirement, as
detailed in Paragraph 2.12 below and in Section 3 of the Procedures.

(d)

Aggregate Margin for Cleared Transactions which reference a single Reference
Entity
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the CDS Clearing Documentation, the
sum of the aggregate Variation Margin, Initial Margin and the Credit Event Margin
that can be called from a Clearing Member that is a CDS Seller in respect of a
Cleared Transaction referencing a single Reference Entity may not exceed the
Floating Rate Payer Calculation Amount in respect of such Cleared Transaction.

(e)

Additional Collateral in respect of Client Cleared Transactions of a “non-hedging
nature” of an FCM Clearing Member
Each FCM Clearing Member shall ensure that with respect to a Client Cleared
Transaction registered in its FCM Client Trade Account(s) that is of a “non-hedging
nature” (as such term is used in Part 39 of the CFTC Regulations), it shall collect
additional Collateral from the relevant FCM Client in respect of such Client Cleared
Transaction at a level of 10% above the FCM Client Margin Requirement that
LCH.Clearnet SA would normally require for such Client Cleared Transaction.
In connection with article 6.2.6.1 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book and this Paragraph
2.2 (e), FCM Clearing Members are not required to lodge such additional Collateral
with LCH.Clearnet SA which is in excess of the relevant FCM Client Margin
Requirement.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

2

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures
(f)

Margin and Price Alignment Interest

Determination of the Legally Segregated Value ascribed to each FCM Client
Financial Account

In accordance with Section 3.2 of the Procedures, LCH.Clearnet SA will calculate the
FCM Margin Balance with respect to each FCM Client Margin Account of an FCM
Clearing Member by determining the Legally Segregated Value recorded in the
relevant FCM Client Financial Account.
LCH.Clearnet SA will determine the Legally Segregated Value of each FCM Clearing
Member at the following times:
(i)

after the FCM Clearing Member’s satisfaction of the Morning Call to reflect
any increase or decrease in the relevant FCM Client Margin Requirement
calculated for the purpose of the Morning Call in accordance with Article
6.2.5.1 (ii) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book;

(ii)

after the FCM Clearing Member’s satisfaction of any Collateral Call (other
than the Morning Call) to reflect only any increase in the relevant FCM Client
Margin Requirement calculated for the purpose of such Collateral Call; and

(iii)

after each determination of the value of Collateral recorded in the FCM Client
Collateral Account provided that (x) there is a decrease in the value resulting
from this determination; and (y) such decrease will reduce the Legally
Segregated Value in accordance with Article 6.2.4.3 (ii) of the CDS Clearing
Rule Book.

LCH.Clearnet SA will record the amended Legally Segregated Value resulting from
such determination in the relevant FCM Client Financial Account.
(g)

Calculation of Margin following a Payment Failure or the issuance of a Default Notice
in respect of a Clearing Member
Pursuant to Article 1.2.9.2 and Article 4.3.2.3 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book,
LCH.Clearnet SA may withhold payments it would otherwise be obliged to make to a
Clearing Member under the CDS Clearing Documentation.
Where LCH.Clearnet SA withholds the payment (or repayment or reimbursement) of
Margin due in respect of a Client Margin Account of the Clearing Member,
LCH.Clearnet SA shall nevertheless continue to calculate the Margin that is due, in
accordance with the CDS Clearing Rules, and update the records which are
attributable to the relevant Client Collateral Account. As appropriate, any Margin
which is calculated to be due in respect of the relevant Client Margin Account shall be
an “accrual”, forming part of the Client Assets which will either be:
(i)

ported in accordance with Clause 4.3.1(ii) of the CDS Default Management
Process;

(ii)

taken into account when calculating the Client Clearing Entitlement pursuant
to Clause 4.4.3 of the CDS Default Management Process; or

(iii)

transferred to a Receiving Clearing Member pursuant to TITLE V, Chapter 3
for CCMs and TITLE VI, Chapter 3 for FCM Clearing Members.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

3

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Margin and Price Alignment Interest

2.3

Excess Collateral and the Client Collateral Buffer

(a)

House Excess Collateral
A Clearing Member is entitled (but not obliged) to maintain Collateral over and above
that which is needed to satisfy its House Margin Requirement. Such House Excess
Collateral will be maintained in its House Collateral Account, in which case it will be
used for the novation of House Trade Legs and taken into account by LCH.Clearnet
SA when it calculates the amount of Collateral which is needed for the House Margin
Account, as part of the Notional and Collateral Check (as set out in Paragraph 2.5(b)
(i) below).

(b)

Client Excess Collateral
A CCM is entitled to maintain Collateral over and above that which is needed to
satisfy the CCM Client Margin Requirement in respect of any of its CCM Client
Margin Accounts. Such CCM Client Excess Collateral will be maintained in a CCM
Client Collateral Account of a CCM Client Account Structure, in which case it will be
used for the novation of Client Trade Legs and taken into account by LCH.Clearnet
SA when it calculates the amount of Collateral which is needed for that CCM Client
Account Structure, as part of the Notional and Collateral Check (as set out in
Paragraph 2.5(b)(i) below).
An FCM Clearing Member is not authorised to post additional Collateral over and
above that which it needed to satisfy the FCM Client Margin Requirement in respect
of any of its FCM Client Margin Accounts. Any FCM Client Excess Collateral
recorded in any of its FCM Client Financial Accounts and resulting from any
decrease of the Initial Margin in relation to the attached FCM Client Margin Account
during a Clearing Day will be used for the novation of Client Trade Legs and taken
into account by LCH.Clearnet SA when it calculates the amount of Collateral which is
needed for the relevant FCM Client Margin Account, as part of the Notional and
Collateral Check, until the next Morning Call.

(c)

Client Collateral Buffer
A Clearing Member is entitled (but not obliged) to maintain:
(i)

in the case of a CCM, Collateral in its Buffer Collateral Account; and

(ii)

in the case of an FCM Clearing Member, an amount of Collateral recorded in its
FCM Buffer Financial Account,

specifically for the purpose of assisting Clients to satisfy the Notional and Collateral
Check performed by LCH.Clearnet SA prior to novation of a Client Trade Leg of an
Eligible Intraday Transaction.
Where a Clearing Member holds:
(i)

in the case of a CCM, Collateral in its Buffer Collateral Account; and

(ii)

in the case of an FCM Clearing Member, an amount of Collateral recorded in its
FCM Buffer Financial Account,

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

4

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Margin and Price Alignment Interest

the Available Client Collateral Buffer (or portion thereof) will be allocated to:
(a)

in the case of a CCM, its Client Account Structure(s); and

(b)

in the case of an FCM Clearing Member, its FCM Client Margin Account(s),

on an automatic ‘first in time’ basis, meaning that whenever a Client Trade Leg of an
Eligible Intraday Transaction is received by LCH.Clearnet SA and the Eligibility
Controls and Client Transaction Checks have been successfully completed pursuant
to Article 3.1.4.3, LCH.Clearnet SA will allocate the Available Client Collateral Buffer
(or portion thereof) to the relevant CCM Client Account Structure in the case of a
CCM, and to the relevant FCM Client Margin Account in the case of an FCM Clearing
Member, where the relevant Client Excess Collateral is otherwise insufficient to
satisfy the Notional and Collateral Check. For the avoidance of doubt, a Clearing
Member has no discretion or ability to instruct LCH.Clearnet SA as to which CCM
Client Account Structure(s) in the case of a CCM, and FCM Client Margin Account(s)
in the case of an FCM Clearing Member, the Available Client Collateral Buffer should
be allocated to.
LCH.Clearnet SA shall reflect how the Client Collateral Buffer has been allocated
between the CCM Client Account Structure(s) of a CCM or as the case may be, FCM
Client Margin Account(s) of an FCM Clearing Member in its books and records but
the Collateral comprising the Client Collateral Buffer shall, at all times (save where
the relevant Clearing Member is a Defaulting Clearing Member or, in respect of a
CCM, following an LCH Default), remain, in the case of a CCM, in the Buffer
Collateral Account, and in the case of an FCM Clearing Member, the amount of such
Collateral recorded in the FCM Buffer Financial Account.
Where:
(i)

Client Collateral Buffer has been allocated to a CCM Client Account Structure
of a CCM or as the case may be to an FCM Client Margin Account of an FCM
Clearing Member; and

(ii)

there is a decrease in the Client Margin Requirement(s) calculated in respect
of such CCM Client Account Structure or as the case may be, of such FCM
Client Margin Account following the novation of the Client Trade Leg of an
Eligible Intraday Transaction,

the amount of such allocated Client Collateral Buffer will be reduced by an amount
equal to the decrease in such Client Margin Requirement(s) and such amount will
then become Available Client Collateral Buffer.
Following the occurrence of an Event of Default or, in respect of a CCM, an LCH
Default, an amount of Collateral equal to the Allocated Client Collateral Buffer for the
relevant CCM Client Account Structure of a CCM or as the case may be, for the
relevant FCM Client Margin Account of an FCM Clearing Member will be transferred:
(i)

in the case of a CCM, from the Buffer Collateral Account of the Defaulting
Clearing Member to the relevant CCM Client Collateral Account of the
relevant CCM Client Account Structure; or

(ii)

in the case of an FCM Clearing Member, from the FCM Buffer Financial
Account of the Defaulting Clearing Member to the relevant FCM Client
Financial Account,

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

5

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Margin and Price Alignment Interest

in accordance with Article 1.3.1.3(iv) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book or clause 4.2 of
the CDS Default Management Process, as applicable.
(d)

The House Excess Collateral Threshold and Client Collateral Buffer Threshold
Where a Clearing Member wishes to transfer additional Collateral to
LCH.Clearnet SA with a view to maintaining House Excess Collateral and/or Client
Buffer Collateral as described in Paragraphs 2.3(a) and (c) above, it must notify
LCH.Clearnet SA of its:
(i)

House Excess Collateral Threshold; and/or

(ii)

Client Collateral Buffer Threshold.

To set its House Excess Collateral Threshold and/or Client Collateral Buffer
Threshold for a Business Day (D), a Clearing Member must notify LCH.Clearnet SA
by submitting the form (which is available on the Website) by email at the email
address specified in Paragraph 2.1. The form must be received by LCH.Clearnet SA
by no later than 12.00 CET on D-1. It is the Clearing Member’s responsibility to
ensure the due receipt by LCH.Clearnet SA of the relevant form. Accordingly, the
Clearing Member should confirm its request no later than 12:00 CET by a phone call
to LCH.Clearnet SA’s Risk Management Department on +33 1 70 37 10 43, although
a failure to do so shall not invalidate any request actually received by
LCH.Clearnet SA.
Once a Clearing Member has notified LCH.Clearnet SA of its House Excess
Collateral Threshold and/or Client Collateral Buffer Threshold, LCH.Clearnet SA will
apply this in the context of each successive Collateral Call, until such time as the
relevant Clearing Member notifies LCH.Clearnet SA of an amended House Excess
Collateral Threshold and/or Client Collateral Buffer Threshold.
2.4

Collateral and Cash Payments

(a)

Types of Collateral and currencies for Cash Payments
Section 3 of the Procedures sets out the Collateral types which a Clearing Member
can transfer, and currencies in which Cash Payments can be made, to LCH.Clearnet
SA to satisfy its obligations in respect of each of the Margin components listed in
Paragraph 2.2 above and for the purposes of maintaining Excess Collateral and/or
Client Collateral Buffer.

(b)

Transferring Collateral and making Cash Payments
Further details on the process for:
(i)

transferring Collateral to satisfy the Required Collateral Amount;

(ii)

transferring additional Collateral to LCH.Clearnet SA with a view to
maintaining Excess Collateral in one or more Collateral Account(s), if
applicable or substituting for another type of Collateral; and

(ii)

making Cash Payments, to satisfy the Total Client Variation Margin
Requirement and/or House Variation Margin Requirement of each Clearing
Member;

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

6

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Margin and Price Alignment Interest

are set out in Section 3 of the Procedures.
(c)

Repayment of Collateral
References, in this Section 2 of the Procedures, to the “repayment” or
“reimbursement” of Margin shall mean that:
(i)

the amount called from a Clearing Member in respect of the relevant Margin
component shall, from such point, be reduced to zero in respect of the
relevant Open Positions; and

(ii)

the value of any Collateral that has been transferred to LCH.Clearnet SA in
respect of such Margin component shall be taken into account by
LCH.Clearnet SA in calculating the relevant Clearing Member’s Margin
Balance in accordance with Section 3 of the Procedures.

2.5

Payment of the Margin Requirement, Variation Margin and provision of Excess
Collateral and Client Collateral Buffer

(a)

Morning Call
(i)

Scheduled Margin Calculation Time
The Margin Requirement and Variation Margin Requirement for each Margin
Account of a Clearing Member are calculated on each Business Day by
07.45 CET.
The relevant Margin Requirement Results File, provided as part of the
Backloading Transaction Reports, will notify each Clearing Member of its:
(A)

Margin Requirement for the Morning Call (and each component
thereof);

(B)

Margin Balance;

(C)

Excess Collateral or Margin Shortfall (as the case may be);

(D)

Variation Margin Requirement, and

(E)

House Excess Collateral Threshold and Client Collateral Buffer
Threshold,

for the relevant Margin Accounts in accordance with and subject to Section 5 of
the Procedures.
Each Clearing Member is required to:
(x)

transfer Collateral to satisfy the Required Collateral Amount, and

(y)

make Cash Payments in respect of its House Variation Margin
Requirement and its Total Client Variation Margin Requirement,

by such times as set out in Section 3 of the Procedures.
Following such transfer of Collateral and/or Cash Payments by an FCM
Clearing Member, any FCM Client Excess Collateral recorded in any of its FCM
LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

7

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Margin and Price Alignment Interest

Client Financial Accounts will be moved into the FCM Unallocated Client
Collateral Financial Account and recorded as FCM Unallocated Client Excess
Collateral.
If a Backloading Failure occurs, LCH.Clearnet SA will issue Intraday Call
Reports, in accordance with and subject to Section 5 of the Procedures, to all
Clearing Members, setting out the:
(A)

Margin Requirement (and each component thereof);

(B)

Margin Balance;

(C)

Excess Collateral or Margin Shortfall (as the case may be);

(D)

Variation Margin Requirement; and

(E)

House Excess Collateral Threshold and Client Collateral Buffer
Threshold

for the relevant Margin Accounts of each Clearing Member.
(b)

Margin calculations during the Real Time Session
(i)

Intraday Novation Margin Requirement
As part of the Notional and Collateral Checks performed by LCH.Clearnet SA,
in order to clear Intraday Transactions on a ‘trade by trade’ basis, LCH.Clearnet
SA will calculate the Intraday Novation Margin Requirement.
LCH.Clearnet SA will calculate the Intraday Novation Margin Requirement in
respect of the relevant Clearing Member’s Margin Account when LCH.Clearnet
SA pre-registers a position corresponding to the relevant trade leg of an Eligible
Intraday Transaction in accordance with Section 3.1.7 of the CDS Clearing
Rule Book. The calculation identifies the additional, or reduced, risk exposure
(as applicable) which would be attributable to the relevant Margin Account
following the novation of such pre-registered positions, and accordingly the
Intraday Novation Margin Requirement may either be a positive or negative
figure.
Following the calculation of such Intraday Novation Margin Requirement,
LCH.Clearnet SA will recalculate the Available Client Collateral Buffer and, in
respect of the relevant Margin Account, the Margin Requirement and the
Excess Collateral for such Margin Account or in the case of a CCM Gross
Omnibus Segregated Account Structure, the Excess Collateral for all the CCM
Client Margin Accounts attached to that CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated
Account Structure. These calculations will be undertaken on the assumption
that the relevant Eligible Intraday Transactions, accounted for in the calculation
of the Intraday Novation Margin Requirement, will be novated as contemplated.
If the relevant Eligible Intraday Transactions are not novated for any reason,
LCH.Clearnet SA will refresh its calculations to determine the Available Client
Collateral Buffer plus the Margin Requirement and Excess Collateral for the
relevant Margin Account or in the case of a CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated
Account Structure, Excess Collateral for all the CCM Client Margin Accounts
attached to that CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Structure.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

8

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Margin and Price Alignment Interest

LCH.Clearnet SA shall only calculate the Intraday Novation Margin
Requirement for a Margin Account during the Real Time Session. Where the
relevant Business Day is a Clearing Day and the Real Time Session does not
take place, no calculation of the Intraday Novation Margin Requirement will be
performed by LCH.Clearnet SA on such Business Day.
In the event LCH.Clearnet SA determines that there is a positive Intraday
Novation Margin Requirement for a Margin Account and there is insufficient:
(A)

House Excess Collateral; or

(B)

Client Excess Collateral and/or Available Client Collateral Buffer which
can be allocated to the relevant Client Margin Account or in the case of
a CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Structure, to that CCM
Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Structure,

as applicable, to satisfy such Intraday Novation Margin Requirement, the
relevant Eligible Intraday Transaction will become a Rejected Transaction.
For the avoidance of doubt, in the event LCH.Clearnet SA determines that
there is a neutral or negative Intraday Novation Margin Requirement (due to the
pre-registered position corresponding to the relevant trade leg of an Eligible
Intraday Transaction being set off against Open Positions registered in the
relevant Margin Account), none of the House Excess Collateral, Client Excess
Collateral and/or Available Client Collateral, as applicable, will be used or
applied for the purpose of satisfying the Notional and Collateral Check.
LCH.Clearnet SA will perform a reporting update in respect of each Clearing
Member’s Margin Account ten times per Business Day (by 10.00 CET, 10.55
CET, 12.30 CET, 13.30 CET, 14.15 CET, 14:55 CET, 16.15 CET, 17.00 CET,
18.00 CET and 19.00 CET) in order to inform such Clearing Member of the
updated Margin Requirement for each Margin Account, level of Excess
Collateral and/or Client Collateral Buffer recorded in, or allocated to, the
relevant Collateral Accounts.
(ii)

Intraday Call
LCH.Clearnet SA will perform an Intraday Call twice per Business Day (by
11.25 CET (the "First Intraday Call") and 15.25 CET (the "Second Intraday
Call") in order, if necessary, to transfer Collateral to satisfy the Required
Collateral Amount and to make Cash Payments.
Where the relevant Business Day is a Clearing Day, the First Intraday Call and
the Second Intraday Call will not be performed to the extent there is no Real
Time Session, on that Clearing Day.
The Margin Requirement in respect of each Margin Account of a Clearing
Member for an Intraday Call will be the latest Margin Requirement calculated
on that Clearing Day.
First Intraday Call:
During the First Intraday Call, LCH.Clearnet SA will issue to each Clearing
Member the relevant risk management and collateral management reports (as
set out in Section 5 of the Procedures), which will notify each such Clearing

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

9

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Margin and Price Alignment Interest

Member of its House Excess Collateral Threshold and Client Collateral Buffer
Threshold and the:
(A)

Margin Requirement for the First Intraday Call (and each component
thereof);

(B)

Excess Collateral or Margin Shortfall (as the case may be);

(C)

Margin Balance; and

(D)

Variation Margin Requirement (only in respect of Backloading
Transactions novated following the Morning Call on the relevant
Clearing Day);

for the relevant Margin Accounts, in accordance with and subject to Section 5
of the Procedures.
Second Intraday Call:
During the Second Intraday Call, LCH.Clearnet SA will issue to each Clearing
Member the relevant risk management and collateral management reports (as
set out in Section 5 of the Procedures), which will notify each such Clearing
Member of its House Excess Collateral Threshold and Client Collateral Buffer
Threshold and the:
(A)

Margin Requirement for the Second Intraday Call (and each
component thereof);

(B)

Excess Collateral or Margin Shortfall (as the case may be); and

(C)

Margin Balance;

for the relevant Margin Accounts, in accordance with and subject to Section 5
of the Procedures.
Each Clearing Member is required to transfer Collateral to satisfy its Required
Collateral Amount and to make Cash Payments in respect of its Variation
Margin Requirement, for the relevant Margin Accounts, as set out in Section 3
of the Procedures.
2.6

Reports
All files and reports, mentioned in this Section 2 of the Procedures, will be available
to Clearing Members through the reporting mechanism. If the reporting mechanisms
are, for any reason unavailable, LCH.Clearnet SA will otherwise make such reports
available to Clearing Members at the requisite time.
Please see Section 5 of the Procedures for further details about the relevant files and
reports.

2.7

Initial Margin, Short Charge Margin, Self-Referencing Protection Margin,
Recovery Risk Margin and Interest Rate Risk Margin and Wrong Way Risk
Margin
Initial Margin, Short Charge Margin, Self-Referencing Protection Margin, Recovery
Risk Margin, Interest Rate Risk Margin and Wrong Way Risk Margin cover the

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

10

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Margin and Price Alignment Interest

potential costs caused by a Defaulting Clearing Member and/or a double Event of
Default, i.e. a combined Credit Event of a Reference Entity and a Clearing Member
Event of Default (in which the Clearing Member is a CDS Seller).
(a)

Initial Margin
The Initial Margin is calculated using the Value-at-Risk (VaR) model which is based
on the following principles: at the Margin Account level, a distribution of potential
losses is built from simulated scenarios based on the joint credit spread variations
observed in the past. LCH.Clearnet SA then determines the Initial Margin based on a
quantile of the worst losses that the Margin Account could bear in the case of
unfavourable credit spread fluctuations.
The Initial Margin calculated in respect of the House Margin Account covers the
potential costs of liquidating House Cleared Transactions of the Defaulting Clearing
Member whilst the Initial Margin calculated in respect of each Client Margin Account
covers the potential costs of liquidating any Non-Ported Cleared Transactions
attributable to such Client Margin Account. It covers the potential future credit spread
fluctuations in case of unfavourable market movements under normal circumstances.
With respect to each Margin Account of each Clearing Member:

(b)

(i)

Cleared Transactions for which the relevant Clearing Member acts as CDS
Buyer are treated as assets with positive liquidation value; and

(ii)

Cleared Transactions for which the relevant Clearing Member acts as CDS
Seller are treated as liabilities with negative liquidation value.

Initial Margin Floor
LCH.Clearnet SA may, by Clearing Notice, specify an Initial Margin Floor applicable
to a particular CDS Type approved by the board of directors of LCH.Clearnet SA
following consultation with the Risk Committee.
Where the calculation of Initial Margin would result in the Initial Margin for any Margin
Account of a Clearing Member being less than the Initial Margin Floor, the Initial
Margin requirement for such Margin Account shall be equal to the Initial Margin Floor.

(c)

Short Charge Margin
Where a Clearing Member is acting as a CDS Seller, Short Charge Margin will be
required to cover the risk that the Clearing Member is subject to an Event of Default
at the same time as a Credit Event occurs with respect to a Reference Entity.
The Short Charge Margin is calculated using an algorithm, approved by the board of
directors of LCH.Clearnet SA following consultation with the Risk Committee, based
on the Open Positions registered in the relevant Margin Account of the Clearing
Member.

(d)

Self-Referencing Protection Margin
Where a Clearing Member is acting as a CDS Seller in respect of a Cleared
Transaction for which such Clearing Member is, or becomes, the Reference Entity,
Self-Referencing Protection Margin will be required to cover the protection that would

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

11

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Margin and Price Alignment Interest

have to be paid by LCH.Clearnet SA with respect to this Clearing Member should the
Clearing Member be subject to an Event of Default.
The Self-Referencing Protection Margin is calculated using an algorithm, approved
by the board of directors of LCH.Clearnet SA following consultation with the Risk
Committee, based on the Open Positions registered in the relevant Margin Account of
the Clearing Member.
(e)

Recovery Risk Margin
Recovery Risk Margin covers the risk of future price fluctuations in case of
unfavourable recovery rate movements under normal circumstances and when
liquidating a Defaulting Clearing Member’s portfolio of House Cleared Transactions
or Non-Ported Cleared Transactions.
The Recovery Risk Margin is calculated using an algorithm, approved by the board of
directors of LCH.Clearnet SA following consultation with the Risk Committee, based
on the Open Positions registered in the relevant Margin Account of the Clearing
Member.

(f)

Interest Rate Risk Margin
Interest Rate Risk Margin covers the risk of future price fluctuations in case of
unfavourable interest rate movements under normal circumstances and when
liquidating a Defaulting Clearing Member’s portfolio of House Cleared Transactions
or Non-Ported Cleared Transactions.
The Interest Rate Risk Margin is calculated using an algorithm, approved by the
board of directors of LCH.Clearnet SA following consultation with the Risk
Committee, based on the Open Positions registered in the relevant Margin Account
of the Clearing Member.

(g)

Wrong Way Risk Margin
Wrong Way Risk Margin is required to cover the anticipated financial contagion effect
that would arise in case of a Clearing Member being declared in default in
accordance with Title IV Chapter 3 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, such contagion
effect triggering additional spread or correlation risk not currently captured by the
Initial Margin.
The Wrong Way Risk Margin is calculated using an algorithm, approved by the board
of directors of LCH.Clearnet SA following consultation with the Risk Committee,
based on the Open Positions registered in the relevant Margin Account of the
Clearing Member.

2.8

Liquidity and Concentration Risk Margin
Liquidity and Concentration Risk Margin is required to cover the bid-ask spread
incurred when liquidating the House Cleared Transactions or the Non-Ported Cleared
Transactions of a Defaulting Clearing Member. The size of this bid-ask spread will
increase if the positions exceed predetermined thresholds in respect of the relevant
credit default swap index or Reference Entity. Further details of the thresholds are
available on a Clearing Notice published on the Website and/or upon request from
LCH.Clearnet SA’s Risk Management Department on +33 1 70 37 10 43 or
Lchclearnetsa_CDS_Risk@lchclearnet.com.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

12

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Margin and Price Alignment Interest

Liquidity and Concentration Risk Margin is calculated:
(a)

in respect of the House Margin Account of a Clearing Member to cover the
potential costs of hedging or liquidating the House Cleared Transactions in
case an Event of Default occurs in respect of such Clearing Member; and

(b)

in respect of a Client Margin Account of a Clearing Member to cover the
potential costs of hedging or liquidating the Non-Ported Cleared Transactions
attributable to such Client Margin Account in case an Event of Default occurs
in respect of such Clearing Member.

The Liquidity and Concentration Risk Margin is calculated using an algorithm
(including thresholds) approved by the board of directors of LCH.Clearnet SA
following consultation with the Risk Committee.
2.9

Accrued Fixed Amount Liquidation Risk Margin
Each Clearing Member acting as a CDS Buyer is required to pay Accrued Fixed
Amount Liquidation Risk Margin in respect of the relevant Cleared Transactions to
cover the risk that it is subject to an Event of Default and accrued Fixed Amounts are
due during the period that the relevant House Cleared Transactions or Non-Ported
Cleared Transactions, as applicable, are liquidated pursuant to the CDS Default
Management Process.
The Accrued Fixed Amount Liquidation Risk Margin is calculated daily for each
Margin Account of each Clearing Member and corresponds to the aggregate amount
of daily Fixed Amounts for such CDS Buyer pursuant to its Cleared Transactions
during a rolling forward-looking period of 5 Business Days.

2.10

Credit Event Margin
Each Clearing Member acting as a CDS Seller is required to pay Credit Event Margin
in respect of the relevant Cleared Transactions to cover the risk of non-payment by
the CDS Seller where a Credit Event occurs with respect to the Reference Entity
which is the subject of the Cleared Transaction(s).
Credit Event Margin will be calculated by LCH.Clearnet SA for each Margin Account
of each Clearing Member, on each Business Day from the date of the relevant DC
Credit Event Announcement until the settlement process in respect of such Cleared
Transaction has been completed (including Physical Settlement as set out in the
CDS Clearing Supplement, or Auction Settlement, as applicable) or any disputes in
relation thereto have been finally resolved. The calculation of the Credit Event Margin
is based on an estimated recovery rate of the Affected Cleared Transaction or the
Restructuring Cleared Transaction, as the case may be, and the exposure of
LCH.Clearnet SA by reference to the notional amount of the Clearing Member‘s
Cleared Transaction(s) affected by the Credit Event.
Credit Event Margin will be reimbursed to the CDS Seller on the Business Day
following completion or resolution of the settlement process (including Physical
Settlement, or Auction Settlement and/or index re-versioning, as applicable) or the
day on which settlement can no longer occur in respect of such Credit Event
(including without limitation because no relevant Credit Event Notice or Notice of
Physical Settlement is delivered within the required timeframes).

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

13

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Margin and Price Alignment Interest

In the event that a DC Credit Event Announcement made in relation to a Credit Event
is reversed then LCH.Clearnet SA shall reimburse each Clearing Member with the
amount of any Credit Event Margin on the next following Business Day in accordance
with Section 3 of the Procedures.
2.11

Additional Margin
A Clearing Member will be required to pay Additional Margin for each Margin Account
in respect of which the Margin Account Uncovered Risk is greater than x% of the
current value of the CDS Default Fund.
Additional Margin will be equal to the difference between x% of the current value of
the CDS Default Fund and the relevant Margin Account Uncovered Risk on such
Business Day.
The number x will depend on the internal credit score that LCH.Clearnet SA attributes
to each Clearing Member and will be the same for each Margin Account of the
Clearing Member. Any change to the number x will be communicated to the Clearing
Member.
When Additional Margin is required to be paid to LCH.Clearnet SA, or the amount of
Additional Margin payable is increased due to a change in the relevant Margin
Account Uncovered Risk, LCH.Clearnet SA will notify the Clearing Member in the
Margin Requirements Results File pursuant to Section 5 of the Procedures.

2.12

Variation Margin
Variation Margin is an amount exchanged on each Cash Payment Day between the
Clearing Member and LCH.Clearnet SA to account for the potential profit or loss on a
Cleared Transaction due to the variation of the market value of a CDS.
It covers price fluctuations which have occurred since the registration of each
Cleared Transaction. LCH.Clearnet SA will calculate the Variation Margin payable in
respect of each Margin Account of each Clearing Member as the difference between:
(i)

the net position value of the relevant Open Positions registered at the time of
calculation in the relevant Margin Account on the current Cash Payment Day;
and

(ii)

the net position value of the Open Positions registered in the relevant Margin
Account on the immediately preceding Cash Payment Day.

In respect of a Margin Account of a Clearing Member, the Variation Margin
Requirement is determined:
(x)

at the Morning Call: in respect of Open Positions already registered in a
Margin Account; and

(y)

at the First Intraday Call: in respect of Backloading Transactions novated
further to the Morning Call.

The net position value of an Open Position is equal to:
(a)

the End of Day Contributed Prices provided to LCH.Clearnet SA in
accordance with Article 4.2.9.1 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book and Section 5

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

14

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Margin and Price Alignment Interest

of the Procedures (or, where such End of Day Contributed Prices are not
available to LCH.Clearnet SA, the prices/spreads as set out in Article 4.2.9.1
of the CDS Clearing Rule Book and Section 5 of the Procedures); plus
(b)

accrued coupon payments, minus

(c)

an amount equal to the Initial Payment Amount where the Clearing Member is
required to pay the Initial Payment Amount, in accordance with Section 3 of
the CDS Clearing Supplement, but has not made such payment as at the
relevant Cash Payment Day (if applicable); plus

(d)

an amount equal to the Initial Payment Amount where the Clearing Member is
entitled to receive the Initial Payment Amount, in accordance with Section 3 of
the CDS Clearing Supplement, but has not received such payment as at the
relevant Cash Payment Day (if applicable).

Where the difference between the net position values of a Clearing Member’s Margin
Account is:
(i)

a negative amount: such Clearing Member owes Variation Margin to
LCH.Clearnet SA (and will be considered a Variation Margin debtor in relation
to such Margin Account); or

(ii)

a positive amount: LCH.Clearnet SA owes Variation Margin to such Clearing
Member.

On the basis of these calculations, LCH.Clearnet SA will determine the Total Client
Variation Margin Requirement and/or the House Variation Margin Requirement which
will trigger Cash Payment(s) to be made by the Clearing Member and/or
LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Section 3 of the Procedures.
The amount of Variation Margin paid or received by LCH.Clearnet SA to or from a
Clearing Member may be adjusted in accordance with Clause 7 of the CDS Default
Management Process.
2.13

Contingency Variation Margin
Contingency Variation Margin is calculated on any Business Day, in respect of:
(i)

Backloading Transactions and new Cleared Transactions arising from the
novation of Eligible Intraday Transactions. It is intended to cover the risk that
the Clearing Member fails to make Cash Payment(s) to meet the Variation
Margin Requirement in respect of each of its Margin Accounts at the next
relevant Collateral Call; and

(ii)

Cleared Transactions with a CDS Contractual Currency in USD provided that
such Business Day is a day on which commercial banks in New York City are
not open for business. It is intended to cover the risk that the Clearing
Member fails to satisfy its Cash Payment(s) obligations in USD to meet the
Variation Margin Requirement in respect of each of its Margin Accounts at the
next relevant Collateral Call on the following Cash Payment Day.

Contingency Variation Margin is called from a Clearing Member in place of the
Variation Margin which LCH.Clearnet SA determines would have been owed by such
Clearing Member had such Clearing Member been required to make a Cash

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

15

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Margin and Price Alignment Interest

Payment to satisfy the Variation Margin Requirement in relation to the relevant
Margin Account at that point in time (being the time of the Morning Call, the First
Intraday Call or the Second Intraday Call, as described below).
Contingency Variation Margin is called (as applicable) in relation to each Margin
Account of a Clearing Member:
(a)

in respect of Backloading Transactions: during the Morning Call.
Contingency Variation Margin paid by a Clearing Member during the Morning
Call is repaid to such Clearing Member at the First Intraday Call if the
required Variation Margin has been paid by such Clearing Member at the First
Intraday Call in accordance with Paragraph 2.12 above.

(b)

in respect of Eligible Intraday Transactions: during the First Intraday Call
and/or the Second Intraday Call.
Contingency Variation Margin paid by a Clearing Member during the First
Intraday Call and/or the Second Intraday Call is repaid to such Clearing
Member at the Morning Call on the following Business Day if the required
Variation Margin has been paid by such Clearing Member at the relevant
Morning Call in accordance with Paragraph 2.12 above; and

(c)

in respect of Cleared Transactions with a CDS Contractual Currency in USD:
during the Morning Call.
Contingency Variation Margin paid by a Clearing Member during the Morning
Call is repaid to such Clearing Member on the following Cash Payment Day if
the required Variation Margin has been paid by such Clearing Member at the
relevant Collateral Call in accordance with Paragraph 2.12 above and Section
3 of the Procedures.

2.14

Price Alignment Interest
Each Clearing Member that receives Variation Margin payments from LCH.Clearnet
SA is required to pay Price Alignment Interest. LCH.Clearnet SA shall pay Price
Alignment Interest to each Clearing Member that pays Variation Margin in
accordance with Paragraph 2.13 above. The A0102E Report published in
accordance with and subject to Section 5 of the Procedures and received by each
Clearing Member on each Cash Payment Day shall indicate the amount of Price
Alignment Interest paid or received by a Clearing Member.
These payments are made in order to minimise distortion of pricing for Original
Transactions cleared through LCH.Clearnet SA as a result of daily Variation Margin
payments and changes in the net present value of Open Positions.
Price Alignment Interest is calculated for each Clearing Member by LCH.Clearnet SA
using the interest rate prevailing on that Cash Payment Day, as published by
LCH.Clearnet SA on the Website, on the basis of the net position value of the Open
Positions registered in the Margin Accounts of the Clearing Member on the
immediately preceding Cash Payment Day.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

16

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures
2.15

Margin and Price Alignment Interest

Credit Quality Margin
LCH.Clearnet SA may require a Clearing member to provide Credit Quality Margin
when LCH.Clearnet SA determines that the credit quality of such Clearing Member
has deteriorated, depending on the internal credit score that LCH.Clearnet SA
attributes to the relevant Clearing Member: (i) following monitoring carried out in
accordance with Article 2.3.2.1 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book; and/or (ii) in the
circumstances set out in Article 4.2.1.2 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book.
On each Business Day, Credit Quality Margin will be equal to the higher of the
amounts calculated as follows:
(a)

(Y-1)*MR where Y stands for the credit multiplier applied to the Clearing
Member’s Margin Requirements and MR stands for the Clearing Member’s
Margin Requirements; or

(b)

X*(Stress Risk – MR) where X stands for the stress risk percentage and
(Stress Risk – MR) stands for the Clearing Member’s Member Uncovered
Risk.

Credit multipliers and stress risk percentage are determined in accordance with the
methodology established by LCH.Clearnet SA. Credit multipliers which can be
applied range from 1 to 1.4, meaning that the additional liability for any Clearing
Member is capped at 40% of the relevant Clearing Member’s Margin Requirement.
The stress risk percentage ranges between 0% and 100% of the Member Uncovered
Risk, meaning that the additional liability for any Clearing Member is capped at 100%
of the relevant Clearing Member’s Member Uncovered Risk.
LCH.Clearnet SA assesses the amount of the Credit Quality Margin across each of
the Margin Accounts of a Clearing Member. Credit Quality Margin will only be called
in relation to a Clearing Member’s House Margin Account.
LCH.Clearnet SA may update a Clearing Member’s credit multiplier or the stress risk
percentage that should apply: (i) following monitoring carried out in accordance with
Article 2.3.2.1 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book; and/or (ii) in the circumstances set out
in Article 4.2.1.2 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book. LCH.Clearnet SA will notify a
Clearing Member of the Credit Quality Margin that has been called in the Margin
Requirements Results File in accordance with Section 5 of the Procedures.
2.16

Extraordinary Margin
LCH.Clearnet SA may require a Clearing Member to provide Extraordinary Margin to
cover the risk of price/spread fluctuations occurring on an intraday basis or during a
day that is a holiday in the TARGET2 calendar.
Extraordinary Margin is called (as applicable) in relation to each Margin Account of a
Clearing Member at the time of the most appropriate time slot for the purpose of
making a Collateral Call. LCH.Clearnet SA will notify the relevant Clearing Member of
the amount of Extraordinary Margin in accordance with, subject to and at the times
set out in the CDS Clearing Rules.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

17

Published on 14 April 2016

EXHIBIT E-6.3

LCH.Clearnet SA
CDS Clearing Procedures
Section 3 – Collateral and Cash Payment
18 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

CONTENTS
SECTION 3 - COLLATERAL AND CASH PAYMENT

3.1

Types of Collateral ..................................................................................................... 3

3.2

Margin Balance and Client Collateral Buffer .............................................................. 3

3.3

Account Structure ...................................................................................................... 4

3.4

Transfer of Collateral ................................................................................................. 6

3.5

Eligible Currencies ..................................................................................................... 7

3.6

Substitution of Eligible Currencies ............................................................................. 7

3.7

Euro Denominated Cash Collateral............................................................................ 8

3.8

Non-Euro Denominated Cash Collateral .................................................................. 16

3.9

Eligible Collateral ..................................................................................................... 24

3.10

Eligible Collateral transferred with full title ................................................................ 26

3.11

LCH.Clearnet SA’s rights in respect of Collateral transferred with full title ................ 30

3.12

Corporate events occurring in respect of Eligible Collateral transferred with full title 32

3.13

Eligible Collateral transferred to LCH.Clearnet SA’s Pledged Accounts at Euroclear
Bank………………………………………………………………………………………….33

3.14

US T-Bills transferred to LCH.Clearnet SA’s depository account at BNYM
US…..……………………………………………………………………………………….35

3.15

Eligible Collateral transfer pursuant to the Pledge Agreement ................................. 35

3.16

Transfer of Client Pledged Eligible Collateral following an Event of Default ............. 38

3.17

Transfer of US T-Bills on behalf of FCM Clients ....................................................... 39

3.18

Cash Payments ....................................................................................................... 42

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

2

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

Capitalised terms used in this Collateral and Cash Payment Procedures and not otherwise
defined herein shall have the meaning given pursuant to the remainder of the CDS Clearing
Documentation, as such term is defined in the document entitled "CDS Clearing Rule Book"
published by LCH.Clearnet SA, as amended from time to time and including, for the
avoidance of doubt, in the case of FCM Clearing Members, the FCM CDS Clearing
Regulations.
For the purpose of this Section 3, any failure, unavailability, impairment, defect, interruption,
delay or improper functioning of any technical system, access, connection, solution,
specification, equipment, communication network or other resource used by LCH.Clearnet
SA and/or a Clearing Member, as applicable, to calculate, instruct, process, communicate
and more generally perform its obligation under this Section 3, shall be deemed to constitute
an “exceptional circumstance” which shall not give rise to a LCH Default and shall be
promptly notified by LCH.Clearnet SA to the relevant Clearing Member.
3.1

TYPES OF COLLATERAL
A Clearing Member’s obligation to provide Collateral should be fulfilled in accordance
with the following table and the remainder of this Section 3 of the Procedures.
Purpose of transfer

Collateral type

Payment of Margins (other than Variation
Margin)

Cash Collateral and/or Eligible
Collateral

Maintenance of House Excess Collateral
and Client Excess Collateral

Cash Collateral and/or Eligible
Collateral

Maintenance of Client Collateral Buffer

Cash Collateral

Payment of Contribution and Additional
Contribution Amount

Euro denominated Cash Collateral

It should be noted that, notwithstanding the above table any Margin Shortfall must be
covered by an automatic debit of Euro denominated Cash Collateral.
3.2

MARGIN BALANCE AND CLIENT COLLATERAL BUFFER
The price of Eligible Currencies (other than Euro) and Eligible Collateral (the
“Applicable Price”), which is taken into account for the purposes of calculating the
Margin Balance for each Margin Account of a Clearing Member, or in the case of a
CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Structure, for all the CCM Client Margin
Accounts attached to that CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Structure, and
the Client Collateral Buffer, is determined by LCH.Clearnet SA at 14:00 and 22:00
CET on each Business Day on the basis of the latest market prices (as published by
Reuters, Interactive Data or such other provider as is notified in a Clearing Notice).
LCH.Clearnet SA will calculate: (i) the Margin Balance for each Margin Account of a
Clearing Member, or in the case of a CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated Account
Structure, for all the CCM Client Margin Accounts attached to that CCM Gross
Omnibus Segregated Account Structure; and (ii) the Client Collateral Buffer each
Business Day (prior to 07:45 CET and whenever a position corresponding to the

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

3

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

relevant trade leg of an Eligible Intraday Transaction is pre-registered in the relevant
Clearing Member’s Account Structure, in accordance with Section 3.1.7 of the CDS
Clearing Rule Book), by determining:
i)

the value of all Collateral recorded in the relevant Collateral Account on the
basis of the Applicable Price; or

ii)

in respect of the FCM Margin Balance for each FCM Client Margin Account of
an FCM Clearing Member, the Legally Segregated Value recorded in the
relevant FCM Client Financial Account on the basis of the Applicable Price, in
accordance with Section 2.2 (f) of the Procedures.

LCH.Clearnet SA will recalculate the: (i) Margin Balance for each Margin Account of
a Clearing Member, or in the case of a CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated Account
Structure, for all the CCM Client Margin Accounts attached to that CCM Gross
Omnibus Segregated Account Structure; and (ii) Client Collateral Buffer, following
each Collateral Call.
Where Pledged Eligible Collateral is recorded in a Clearing Member’s Collateral
Account, LCH.Clearnet SA shall use the most recent Collateral Holding Report
received from Euroclear Bank, in accordance with Paragraph 5.13(f) of Section 5 of
the Procedures, to determine what Pledged Eligible Collateral should be taken into
account for the purposes of calculating the Margin Balance in respect of a particular
Account Structure in accordance with this Paragraph 3.2.
Where Eligible Collateral consisting of U.S. Treasury Bills (the “US T-Bills”) is
recorded in a FCM Clearing Member’s FCM Client Collateral Account, LCH.Clearnet
SA shall use the most recent collateral holding report received from Bank of New
York Mellon (“BNYM US”), in accordance with Paragraph 5.13(f) of Section 5 of the
Procedures, to determine what US T-Bills should be taken into account for the
purposes of calculating the FCM Client Margin Balance in respect of each of its FCM
Client Margin Account(s) in accordance with this Paragraph 3.2.
3.3

ACCOUNT STRUCTURE
(a)

Collateral Accounts in respect of a CCM
In the books of LCH.Clearnet SA, each CCM has:
i)

one CCM House Collateral Account in which (x) Collateral provided to
cover its CCM House Margin Requirement and (y) CCM House
Excess Collateral which can be used to novate House Trade Legs of
Eligible Intraday Transactions, is recorded;

ii)

a CCM Client Collateral Account in respect of each CCM Client
Account Structure and in which (x) Collateral provided to cover the
relevant CCM Client Margin Requirement(s) and (y) CCM Client
Excess Collateral which can be used to novate the relevant Client
Trade Legs of Eligible Intraday Transactions, is recorded;

iii)

a Buffer Collateral Account in which the CCM Client Collateral Buffer is
recorded; and

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

4

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

iv)

Collateral and Cash Payment

a CCM Unallocated Client Collateral Account in which CCM
Unallocated Client Collateral is recorded.

In accordance with Article 5.2.1.1 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, CCMs are
permitted to offer a CCM Individual Segregated Account Structure, a CCM
Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Structure and/or a CCM Net Omnibus
Segregated Account Structure to CCM Clients.
Where:
i)

a CCM Individual Segregated Account Structure is offered, the
relevant CCM Client Collateral Account will record (x) the value and
denomination of Cash Collateral and (y) the precise Eligible
Collateral provided by the CCM in respect of that CCM Individual
Segregated Account Client;

ii)

a CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Structure is offered, the
relevant CCM Client Collateral Account will record (x) the value and
denomination of Cash Collateral and (y) the precise Eligible
Collateral provided by the CCM in respect of that CCM Gross
Omnibus Client Set; and

iii)

a CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account Structure is offered, the
relevant CCM Client Collateral Account will record (x) the value and
denomination of Cash Collateral and (y) the precise Eligible
Collateral provided by the CCM in respect of that CCM Net Omnibus
Client Set.

To the extent a CCM transfers additional Euro-denominated Cash Collateral,
non-Euro denominated Cash Collateral or Eligible Collateral to LCH.Clearnet
SA, such CCM must identify which CCM Client Collateral Account Collateral it
is provided for in accordance with Paragraphs 3.7 to 3.10 below.
(b)

Collateral Accounts in respect of an FCM Clearing Member
In the books of LCH.Clearnet SA, each FCM Clearing Member has:
i)

one FCM House Collateral Account in which (x) Collateral provided to
cover its FCM House Margin Requirement and (y) FCM House Excess
Collateral which can be used to novate House Trade Legs of Eligible
Intraday Transactions, is recorded; and

ii)

one FCM Client Collateral Account to record the Collateral held by
LCH.Clearnet SA for the benefit of such FCM Clearing Member’s FCM
Clients, the aggregate value of such Collateral being divided amongst,
and recorded in:

(x)

the FCM Client Financial Account(s);

(y)

the FCM Buffer Financial Account; and

(z)

the FCM Unallocated Client Collateral Financial Account,

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

5

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

(c)

Collateral and Cash Payment

Segregation of Contribution Balance
The Cash Collateral transferred by a Clearing Member to satisfy its
Contribution Requirement is not recorded in any of the Collateral Accounts.
The Contribution Balance is segregated from (x) the Margin Balance for each
Margin Account; (y) the Client Collateral Buffer; and (z) the CCM Unallocated
Client Collateral, by crediting the Cash Collateral comprising the Contribution
Balance to a dedicated LCH.Clearnet SA TARGET2 Account.

3.4

TRANSFER OF COLLATERAL
The type and nature of the Collateral as well as the positions being secured will
determine how a Clearing Member is required to transfer Collateral to LCH.Clearnet
SA:
(a)

(b)

(c)

Euro denominated Cash Collateral:
i)

may be transferred by any Clearing Member to be recorded in any of
its Collateral Accounts; and

ii)

must be transferred to LCH.Clearnet SA TARGET2 Accounts (as such
term is defined in Paragraph 3.7(a)) in accordance with the procedure
set out in Paragraph 3.7.

Non-Euro denominated Cash Collateral:
i)

may be transferred by any Clearing Member to be recorded in any of
its Collateral Accounts; and

ii)

must be credited to accounts opened in the name of LCH.Clearnet SA
with Euroclear Bank in accordance with the procedure set out in
Paragraph 3.8 (f).

USD denominated Cash Collateral:
i)

may be transferred by a Clearing Member to be recorded in any of its
Collateral Accounts; and

ii)

must be credited:
(x)

if USD denominated Cash Collateral is transferred to be
recorded in its House Collateral Account, or in the case of a
CCM, in any of its CCM Client Collateral Accounts, to accounts
opened in the name of LCH.Clearnet SA with Euroclear Bank in
accordance with the procedure set out in Paragraph 3.8 (f); or

(y)

if USD denominated Cash Collateral is transferred to be
recorded in the FCM Client Collateral Account of an FCM
Clearing Member, to an account opened in the name of
LCH.Clearnet SA with BNYM US in accordance with the
procedure set out in Paragraph 3.8 (g).

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

6

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

(d)

3.5

Collateral and Cash Payment

Subject to the special provisions for US T-Bills transferred by an FCM
Clearing Member on behalf of FCM Clients set out in Paragraph 3.4 (e)
below, Eligible Collateral must be provided:
i)

by way of full title transfer to be recorded in its House Collateral
Account, and in the case of a CCM only, in any of its CCM Client
Collateral Accounts, in which case the relevant securities will be
transferred to LCH.Clearnet SA, its nominated custodian or Central
Securities Depository by instruction through Euroclear Bank or ESES
(Euroclear France) in accordance with the procedure set out in
Paragraph 3.10; or

ii)

by way of security interest under the Pledge Agreement to be recorded
in its House Collateral Account, and in the case of a CCM only, in any
of its CCM Client Collateral Accounts, in which case relevant securities
will be transferred to the relevant LCH.Clearnet SA pledged account(s)
opened in the books of Euroclear Bank by instruction through
Euroclear Bank, in accordance with the procedure set out in
Paragraph 3.15.

(e)

US T-Bills transferred by an FCM Clearing Member on behalf of FCM Clients
must be provided by way of security interest to be recorded in its FCM Client
Collateral Account, in which case relevant US T-Bills will be deposited in
LCH.Clearnet SA’s relevant segregated depository account opened in the
books of BNYM US in accordance with the procedure set out in Paragraph
3.17.

(f)

LCH.Clearnet SA will hold all Collateral transferred on behalf of FCM Clients
in accordance with the requirements set out in the FCM CDS Clearing
Regulations.

ELIGIBLE CURRENCIES
The following currencies are Eligible Currencies:
(a)

Euro;

(b)

GBP; and

(c)

USD.

LCH.Clearnet SA may amend this list in accordance with Article 4.2.6.1 and
Article 4.4.2.3 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book.
3.6

SUBSTITUTION OF ELIGIBLE CURRENCIES
If an Eligible Currency is substituted by another currency, the conversion of the
replaced currency to the substitute currency shall be effected on the basis of the
Applicable Price and taking into account market practice and/or industry
determinations at LCH.Clearnet SA’s reasonable discretion. The results of any
calculations to be made under this Paragraph 3.6 shall be rounded up to the fourth
decimal place. If the fifth decimal is equal to or more than five, the fourth decimal
shall be rounded up, and if the fifth decimal is less than five, the fourth decimal shall
be rounded down, respectively.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

7

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

3.7

Collateral and Cash Payment

EURO DENOMINATED CASH COLLATERAL
(a)

LCH.Clearnet SA TARGET2 Accounts
LCH.Clearnet SA performs its Collateral Calls by using the following three
TARGET2 Accounts opened in its name:
i)

a TARGET2 Account used to make Collateral Calls in relation to the
House Margin Requirement, the House Excess Collateral Threshold
and in respect of a CCM only, the CCM Client Collateral Buffer
Threshold (the “LCH House TARGET2 Account”); and

ii)

with respect to Clients of a Clearing Member:
(x)

a TARGET2 Account used to make Collateral Calls in relation
to the Total Client Margin Requirement of each CCM (the “LCH
CCM Client TARGET2 Account”); or

(y)

a TARGET2 Account used to make Collateral Calls in relation
to the Total Client Margin Requirement and FCM Client
Collateral Buffer Threshold of each FCM Clearing Member (the
“LCH FCM Client TARGET2 Account”), which for the
avoidance of doubt forms part of the LCH Cleared Swaps
Client Segregated Depository Account for purposes of the FCM
CDS Clearing Regulations,

together referred to as the “LCH Client TARGET2 Accounts” and
individually as a “LCH Client TARGET2 Account”.
The LCH House TARGET2 Account and the LCH Client TARGET2 Accounts
shall be together referred to as the “LCH TARGET2 Accounts”.
(b)

Clearing Member TARGET2 Accounts
A CCM has no obligation to hold two TARGET2 Accounts (or arrange its
Payment Agent holding a TARGET2 Account (the “TARGET2 Payment
Agent”) to hold two cash account(s)) for the purposes of the Collateral Calls
in respect of (i) its CCM House Margin Requirement, CCM House Excess
Collateral Threshold and CCM Client Collateral Buffer Threshold and (ii) its
Total Client Margin Requirement. It may either:
i)

hold one TARGET2 Account (or one cash account of its TARGET2
Payment Agent), in which case such TARGET2 Account will be used
for the debits and credits made out of both the LCH Client TARGET2
Account and the LCH House TARGET2 Account; or

ii)

hold two TARGET2 Accounts (or two cash accounts of its TARGET2
Payment Agent), in which case one TARGET2 account will be used
for the debits and credits made out of the LCH Client TARGET2
Account and the other will be used for the debits and credits made
out of the LCH House TARGET2 Account.

An FCM Clearing Member has an obligation to hold two TARGET2 Accounts
(or arrange its TARGET2 Payment Agent to hold two cash account(s)) for the
LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

8

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

purposes of the Collateral Calls in respect of (i) its FCM House Margin
Requirement and FCM House Excess Collateral Threshold and (ii) its Total
Client Margin Requirement and FCM Client Collateral Buffer Threshold (which
for the avoidance of doubt forms part of the FCM Cleared Swaps Client
Segregated Depository Accounts for purposes of the FCM CDS Clearing
Regulations). Therefore, an FCM Clearing Member will hold two TARGET2
Accounts (or two cash accounts of its TARGET2 Payment Agent), in which
case one TARGET2 account will be used for the debits and credits made out
of the LCH FCM Client TARGET2 Account and the other will be used for the
debits and credits made out of the LCH House TARGET2 Account.
If a Clearing Member wishes to add a new TARGET2 Account or replace an
existing TARGET2 Account with another for the purposes of the Collateral
Calls, it may do so by providing LCH.Clearnet SA with the details of the
relevant TARGET2 Account with at least 15 days’ prior notice.
(c)

Timing of Collateral Calls
Where a Clearing Member is required to transfer Euro denominated Cash
Collateral at a Collateral Call, LCH.Clearnet SA will automatically debit such
Clearing Member’s relevant TARGET2 Account(s) (or the relevant cash
account(s) of its TARGET2 Payment Agent) on the basis of its Power of
Attorney and credit the relevant LCH TARGET2 Account with the
corresponding amounts.
Where a Clearing Member is due to receive Euro denominated Cash
Collateral, LCH.Clearnet SA will automatically credit such Clearing Member’s
TARGET2 Account(s) (or the relevant cash account(s) of its TARGET2
Payment Agent) with the relevant amounts.
The debits or credits on each Clearing Member’s TARGET2 Account(s) (or
the relevant cash account(s) of its TARGET2 Payment Agent) will occur in
accordance with the following time slots:
i)

initial slot: 08:00-08:55 CET (used for the purposes of the Morning
Call) (the “Initial Slot”);

ii)

first intraday slot: 11:25-11:50 CET (used for the purposes of the First
Intraday Call) (the “First Intraday Slot”);

iii)

additional specific collateral slot: 12:25-12:55 CET (used for the
purposes of Collateral substitution upon a Clearing Member’s request)
(the “Additional Specific Collateral Slot”);

iv)

second intraday slot: 15:25-15:55 CET (used for the purposes of the
Second Intraday Call) (the “Second Intraday Slot”); or

v)

any other slot available to LCH.Clearnet SA in exceptional
circumstances (the “Exceptional Slot”);

Once the Euro denominated Cash Collateral has been debited by
LCH.Clearnet SA it will immediately form part of the Margin Balance for the
relevant Margin Account, or in the case of a CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated
Account Structure, for all the CCM Client Margin Accounts attached to that
LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

9

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Structure, and/or the Client
Collateral Buffer or the Contribution Balance, as applicable.
(d)

Netting of payments made through TARGET2
i)

Aggregation of payments made in respect of a CCM
At the times set out in Paragraph 3.7(c) above LCH.Clearnet SA will
aggregate:
(x) in respect of the CCM House Margin Account:
(A)

the Cash Payments (being the House Variation Margin
Requirement plus any other Cash Payments due in respect
of the House Account Structure) and Euro denominated
Cash Collateral transfers (being the CCM House Margin
Shortfall, the CCM House Excess Collateral Shortfall, the
CCM Client Collateral Buffer Shortfall and the Contribution
Shortfall) which are due to be made by a CCM to
LCH.Clearnet SA through TARGET2; and

(B)

the Cash Payments due to be made, and Euro
denominated Cash Collateral due to be returned, by
LCH.Clearnet SA to a CCM through TARGET2; and

(y) in respect of the CCM Client Margin Accounts:
(A) the Cash Payments (being the Total Client Variation Margin
Requirement plus any other Cash Payments due in respect
of the CCM Client Account Structure) and Euro
denominated Cash Collateral transfers (being the Total
Client Margin Shortfall) which are due to be made by a
CCM to LCH.Clearnet SA through TARGET2; and
(B)

ii)

the Cash Payments due to be made, and Euro
denominated Cash Collateral due to be returned, by
LCH.Clearnet SA to a CCM through TARGET2.

Aggregation of payments made in respect of an FCM Clearing
Member
At the times set out in Paragraph 3.7(c) above LCH.Clearnet SA will
aggregate:
(x) in respect of the FCM House Margin Account:
(A)

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

the Cash Payments (being the House Variation Margin
Requirement plus any other Cash Payments due in respect
of the House Account Structure) and Euro denominated
Cash Collateral transfers (being the FCM House Margin
Shortfall, the FCM House Excess Collateral Shortfall and
the Contribution Shortfall) which are due to be made by an
FCM Clearing Member to LCH.Clearnet SA through
TARGET2; and
10

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

(B)

the Cash Payments due to be made, and Euro
denominated Cash Collateral due to be returned, by
LCH.Clearnet SA to an FCM Clearing Member through
TARGET2; and

(y) in respect of the FCM Client Margin Accounts:
(A)

the Cash Payments due in respect of the FCM Client
Account Structure (other than the Total Client Variation
Margin Requirement due in respect of the FCM Client
Account Structure) and Euro denominated Cash Collateral
transfers (being the Total Client Margin Shortfall and the
FCM Client Buffer Collateral Shortfall) which are due to be
made by an FCM Clearing Member to LCH.Clearnet SA
through TARGET2; and

(B)

the Cash Payments due to be made (other than the Total
Client Variation Margin Requirement due in respect of the
FCM Client Account Structure), and Euro denominated
Cash Collateral due to be returned, by LCH.Clearnet SA to
an FCM Clearing Member through TARGET2.

With the exception of the Total Client Variation Margin Requirement of an
FCM Clearing Member (as set out in Paragraph 3.7(e)(ii)(y) above) which
shall never be netted with other amounts for the purposes of making a
payment through TARGET2, if the aggregate amount that would be payable
by one party (in respect either of the House Margin Account, the CCM Client
Margin Accounts or the FCM Client Margin Accounts of a Clearing Member)
exceeds the amount that would otherwise have been payable by the other
party (in respect of such House Margin Account, CCM Client Margin Accounts
or FCM Client Margin Accounts), then the obligations of each party pursuant
to this Paragraph 3.7 and Paragraph 3.18 below shall be automatically
satisfied and discharged on payment by the party by whom the larger
aggregate amount would have been payable to the other party of the excess
of the larger aggregate amount over the smaller aggregate amount.
Notwithstanding the payment netting contemplated by this Paragraph 3.7(e),
LCH.Clearnet SA shall ensure that its books and records properly reflect the
transfer of Euro-denominated Cash Collateral and payment of Cash
Payments, made in respect of the relevant Margin Account(s), on a gross
basis.
(e)

Interest
LCH.Clearnet SA pays interest on Euro denominated Cash Collateral.
The applicable interest rate is published by LCH.Clearnet SA on the Website.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

11

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

(f)

Collateral and Cash Payment

Transfer of Euro denominated Cash Collateral
On a given Business Day (“Day”) (before 17:15 CET)
If:
(i)

a Clearing Member wishes to transfer Euro denominated Cash
Collateral to be recorded in its House Collateral Account and in the
case of a CCM, in any of its CCM Client Collateral Accounts (other
than in the case that a Clearing Member is called to transfer Euro
denominated Cash Collateral to LCH.Clearnet SA to satisfy the
Required Collateral Amount pursuant to a Collateral Call, in
accordance with Article 4.2.3.2 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book); or

(ii)

a Clearing Member wishes to transfer Euro denominated Cash
Collateral to be recorded in any of its Collateral Accounts for the
purpose of substituting such Euro denominated Cash Collateral for
any Collateral recorded in its Collateral Accounts,

it shall notify LCH.Clearnet SA by submitting the relevant form by any means
as specified in a Clearing Notice. The Clearing Member must specify to which
Collateral Account(s) such Euro denominated Cash Collateral should be
recorded. The process that a Clearing Member and LCH.Clearnet SA must
follow to process the return of substituted Collateral to the Clearing Member is
set out in paragraph 3.8(h) (for non-Euro denominated Cash Collateral), 3.8(i)
(for USD denominated Cash Collateral), 3.10(c) (for Eligible Collateral
transferred with full title), 3.15(b) (for Pledged Eligible Collateral) and 3.17(b)
(for US T-Bills transferred on behalf of FCM Clients), as applicable.
In respect of a CCM only, if such CCM notifies to LCH.Clearnet SA that Euro
denominated Cash Collateral will be transferred to the LCH CCM Client
TARGET2 Account but the CCM does not specify to which CCM Client
Collateral Account(s) some or all of such amounts should be recorded,
LCH.Clearnet will proceed with the debit of the CCM’s relevant TARGET2
Account (or the relevant cash account of its TARGET2 Payment Agent) but
will treat any amounts which have not been specifically identified as being for
a particular CCM Client Collateral Account as CCM Unallocated Client
Collateral and record such amounts in the CCM Unallocated Client Collateral
Account.
A Clearing Member must notify LCH.Clearnet SA as set out above by no later
than 10:45 CET in order for a Clearing Member’s request to be processed
and the Euro denominated Cash Collateral called at the First Intraday Slot on
the same day. A Clearing Member must notify LCH.Clearnet SA as set out
above between 10:45 and 17:15 CET in order for a Clearing Member’s
request to be processed and the Euro denominated Cash Collateral called at
the next TARGET2 time slot, including any Exceptional Slot. It is the Clearing
Member’s responsibility to ensure the due receipt by LCH.Clearnet SA of the
relevant notification. Accordingly, the Clearing Member should confirm its
request no later than 17:15 CET by a phone call to LCH.Clearnet SA’s
collateral management team on (+33) (0)1 70 37 66 86/66 37/65 35, although
a failure to do so shall not invalidate any request actually received by
LCH.Clearnet SA.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

12

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

On Day at the relevant TARGET2 time slot:
LCH.Clearnet SA will debit the Clearing Member’s relevant TARGET2
Account(s) (or the relevant cash account(s) of its TARGET2 Payment Agent)
with the amount of Euro denominated Cash Collateral notified by the Clearing
Member.
On Day at any time, a Clearing Member may transfer Euro denominated Cash
Collateral by:
i)

notifying LCH.Clearnet SA through the relevant form by any means
as specified in a Clearing Notice. The Clearing Member must specify
to which Collateral Account(s) such Euro denominated Cash
Collateral should be recorded, and

ii)

crediting LCH TARGET 2 Account before 18:00 CET.

Transfer of Euro denominated Cash Collateral at any time later than the First
Intraday Slot will be subject to a cap as defined by LCH.Clearnet SA and
made available on its website.
In respect of each Clearing Member, following the transfer of Euro
denominated Cash Collateral:

(g)

i)

the Cash Collateral will be recorded in its House Collateral Account, its
Buffer Collateral Account, the relevant Client Collateral Account(s)
and/or its CCM Unallocated Client Collateral Account, as applicable;
and

ii)

to the extent Cash Collateral has been credited to its CCM Unallocated
Client Collateral Account, such CCM must inform LCH.Clearnet SA by
no later than the End of Real Time on Day how the CCM Unallocated
Client Collateral should be recorded within its CCM Client Collateral
Account(s). Where the CCM does not provide LCH.Clearnet SA with
this information within this timeframe, the CCM Unallocated Client
Collateral shall be returned to the CCM’s relevant TARGET2 Account
(or the relevant cash account(s) of its TARGET2 Payment Agent).

Return of Euro denominated Cash Collateral
i)

In respect of a Clearing Member’s House Collateral Account
1- A Clearing Member may request LCH.Clearnet SA to
automatically credit Euro denominated Cash Collateral recorded
in its House Collateral Account which is in an amount above the
House Excess Collateral Threshold to the Clearing Member’s
TARGET2 Account (or the relevant cash account of its TARGET2
Payment Agent) provided the amount to be credited would not
result in the relevant House Margin Requirement exceeding the
Margin Balance for the House Margin Account. LCH.Clearnet SA
will credit the relevant amount of Euro denominated Cash
Collateral at the next Initial Slot.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

13

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

A Clearing Member must notify LCH.Clearnet SA of its request to
have Euro denominated Cash Collateral automatically credited to
the Clearing Member’s TARGET2 Account (or the relevant cash
account of its TARGET2 Payment Agent) by submitting the
relevant form by any means as specified in a Clearing Notice by
no later than 16:00 CET on a Business Day in order for the
Clearing Member’s request to be processed on the next following
Business Day.
Once a Clearing Member has notified LCH.Clearnet SA of its
request to have Euro denominated Cash Collateral automatically
credited, LCH.Clearnet SA will apply it, until such time as
LCH.Clearnet SA has been otherwise instructed by the relevant
Clearing Member.
2- A Clearing Member may request, on an ad hoc basis,
LCH.Clearnet SA to return Euro denominated Cash Collateral
recorded in its House Collateral Account provided the amount to
be returned would not result in the relevant House Margin
Requirement exceeding the Margin Balance for the House
Margin Account, as determined at the time when the request is
received and processed by LCH.Clearnet SA. Where this would
be the case, the Clearing Member's request will be rejected.
3- Following receipt of a request in accordance with this
Paragraph 3.7(g) i), 2, LCH.Clearnet SA will credit the relevant
amount of Euro denominated Cash Collateral to the relevant
TARGET2 Account of the Clearing Member (or the relevant cash
account of its TARGET2 Payment Agent) at the next Initial Slot,
or any TARGET2 time slot in which a Variation Margin payment
is due to be performed.
ii)

In respect of a CCM’s Client Collateral Account(s)
A CCM may request LCH.Clearnet SA to return Euro denominated
Cash Collateral recorded in any of its CCM Client Collateral Accounts
provided the amount to be returned would not result in:
(x)

the relevant CCM Client Margin Requirement(s), plus

(y)

the CCM Allocated Client Collateral Buffer, if any,

exceeding the Margin Balance for the relevant CCM Client Account
Structure, as determined at the time when the request is received and
processed by LCH.Clearnet SA. Where this would be the case, the
Clearing Member's request will be rejected.
Following receipt of a request in accordance with this Paragraph 3.7(g)
ii), LCH.Clearnet SA will credit the relevant amount of Euro
denominated Cash Collateral to the relevant TARGET2 Account of the
Clearing Member (or the relevant cash account of its TARGET2
Payment Agent) at the next Initial Slot, or any TARGET2 time slot in
which a Variation Margin payment is due to be performed.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

14

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

iii)

Collateral and Cash Payment

In respect of a CCM’s Buffer Collateral Account
1- A CCM may request LCH.Clearnet SA to automatically credit
Euro denominated Cash Collateral recorded in its Buffer
Collateral Account which is in an amount above the CCM Client
Collateral Buffer Threshold to the CCM’s TARGET2 Account (or
the relevant cash account of its TARGET2 Payment Agent)
provided the amount does not exceed the CCM Available Client
Collateral Buffer. LCH.Clearnet SA will credit the relevant amount
of Euro denominated Cash Collateral at the next Initial Slot. A
CCM must notify LCH.Clearnet SA of its request to have Euro
denominated Cash Collateral automatically credited to the CCM’s
TARGET2 Account (or the relevant cash account of its TARGET2
Payment Agent) by submitting the relevant form by any means as
specified in a Clearing Notice by no later than 16:00 CET on a
Business Day in order for the CCM’s request to be processed on
the next following Business Day.
Once a CCM has notified LCH.Clearnet SA of its request to have
Euro denominated Cash Collateral automatically credited,
LCH.Clearnet SA will apply it, until such time as LCH.Clearnet SA
has been otherwise instructed by the relevant CCM.
2- A CCM may request, on an ad hoc basis, LCH.Clearnet SA to
return Euro denominated Cash Collateral recorded in its Buffer
Collateral Account provided the amount does not exceed the
CCM Available Client Collateral Buffer, as determined at the time
when the request is received and processed by LCH.Clearnet
SA. Where this would be the case, the CCM's request will be
rejected.
Following receipt of a request in accordance with this
Paragraph 3.7(g) iii), 2, LCH.Clearnet SA will credit the relevant
amount of Euro denominated Cash Collateral to the relevant
TARGET2 Account of the CCM (or the relevant cash account of
its TARGET2 Payment Agent) at the next Initial Slot..

iv)

In respect of an FCM Unallocated Client Collateral Financial Account
The FCM Clearing Member may also request LCH.Clearnet SA to
return some or all FCM Unallocated Client Excess Collateral in the
form of Euro denominated Cash Collateral provided that the requested
amount does not exceed the FCM Unallocated Client Excess
Collateral recorded in its FCM Client Collateral Account. Where this
would be the case, the FCM Clearing Member's request will be
rejected.
LCH.Clearnet SA will credit the relevant amount of Euro denominated
Cash Collateral to the relevant TARGET2 Account of the FCM Clearing
Member (or the relevant cash account of its TARGET2 Payment
Agent) at the next Initial Slot, or any TARGET2 time slot in which a
Variation Margin payment is due to be performed.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

15

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

By exception to the time limits for notification as set out in paragraphs 3.7 (f)
and (g), in case of atypical market conditions (i.e. periods of time with
reduced activity and lowered liquidity), including but not limited to the end of
the year period (i.e. the period starting from 22 December of each year to 2
January of the following year), LCH.Clearnet SA may inform by any means
the Clearing Members that notifications of movement (transfer or return) of
Euro denominated Cash Collateral, for value on Day, must be received by
LCH.Clearnet SA on Day minus five before 16.00 CET. Such information
will contain the implementation measure of the extension of the notification
period.
(h)

Transfer of Euro denominated Cash Collateral to satisfy a Contribution
Shortfall
Where a Clearing Member is required to transfer Euro denominated Cash
Collateral to LCH.Clearnet SA to satisfy a Contribution Shortfall, in
accordance with Article 4.4.1.7 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, it shall make
arrangements to credit the LCH House TARGET2 Account with the required
amount of Euro denominated Cash Collateral.

3.8

NON-EURO DENOMINATED CASH COLLATERAL
(a)

Multi-currency accounts held by LCH.Clearnet SA
LCH.Clearnet SA holds non-Euro Cash Collateral provided by Clearing
Members in the following three multi-currency accounts opened in the books
of an eligible commercial bank selected in accordance with Paragraph 3.8(c)
below:
i)

a multi-currency account used to credit non-Euro Cash Collateral
which is transferred by a Clearing Member to be recorded in its House
Collateral Account (the “LCH House Non-Euro Account”); and

ii)

with respect to Clients of a Clearing Member:
(x)

a multi-currency account used to credit non-Euro Cash Collateral
which is transferred by a CCM to be recorded in its CCM Client
Collateral Account(s) (the “LCH CCM Client Non-Euro
Account”); or

(y)

a multi-currency account used to credit non-Euro, non-USD
Cash Collateral which is transferred by an FCM Clearing
Member to be recorded in its FCM Client Collateral Account (the
“LCH FCM Client Non-Euro Account”), which for the avoidance
of doubt forms part of the LCH Cleared Swaps Client
Segregated Depository Account for purposes of the FCM CDS
Clearing Regulations,
together referred to as the “LCH Client Non-Euro Accounts”
and individually as a “LCH Client Non-Euro Account”.

The LCH House Non-Euro Account and the LCH Client Non-Euro Accounts
shall be together referred to as the “LCH Non-Euro Accounts”.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

16

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

LCH.Clearnet SA may invest non-Euro Cash Collateral in accordance with
Paragraph 3.11(b).
(b)

USD cash account held by LCH.Clearnet SA
LCH.Clearnet SA holds USD Cash Collateral provided by FCM Clearing
Members on behalf of their FCM Clients in an USD cash account:
i)

opened in the books of BNYM US; and

ii)

used to credit USD Cash Collateral which is transferred by FCM
Clearing Members to be recorded in their FCM Client Collateral
Account (the “LCH FCM Client USD Account”), which for the
avoidance of doubt forms part of the LCH Cleared Swaps Client
Segregated Depository Account for purposes of the FCM CDS
Clearing Regulations.

LCH.Clearnet SA may invest USD Cash Collateral in accordance with
Paragraph 3.11(b) and the FCM CDS Clearing Regulations.
(c)

Eligible commercial banks
LCH.Clearnet SA will hold:
i)

non-Euro Cash Collateral, where LCH.Clearnet SA does not invest it in
accordance with Paragraph 3.11(a), in the LCH Non-Euro Accounts;
and

ii)

USD Cash Collateral provided by FCM Clearing Members on behalf of
their FCM Clients, where LCH.Clearnet SA does not invest it in
accordance with Paragraph 3.11(b) and the FCM CDS Clearing
Regulations, in the LCH FCM Client USD Account

opened in the books of any commercial bank which has been selected in
accordance with the LCH.Clearnet Group Limited risk collateral policy (the
“LCH Group Risk Collateral Policy”).
The LCH Group Risk Collateral Policy sets out, amongst other things, the
principles that LCH.Clearnet SA must adhere to when arranging for the
custody of Cash Collateral and is kept under review by the Risk Committee.
One of those principles is that LCH.Clearnet SA may select a commercial
bank to act as custodian for Cash Collateral, subject to it meeting the
following criteria:


an average credit rating of at least A-, or a guarantee from a sovereign
government or parent company with an average credit rating of at
least A-. Where there is a subsequent downgrade of the bank's credit
rating, reference will be made to the LCH Group Risk Collateral Policy
and the Risk Committee's policy; and



has demonstrable operational suitability (confirmed by LCH.Clearnet
SA’s own due diligence).

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

17

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

On the basis of these criteria, LCH.Clearnet SA has selected:
i)

Euroclear Bank to act as depository of non-Euro denominated Cash
Collateral provided by Clearing Members; and

ii)

BNYM US to act as depository of USD Cash Collateral provided by
FCM Clearing Members on behalf of their FCM Clients,

together referred to as the “Eligible Commercial Banks” and individually as
an “Eligible Commercial Bank”.
(d)

FX conversion and discounts
Whenever LCH.Clearnet SA is required to convert non-Euro denominated
Cash Collateral, transferred by a Clearing Member, to Euros such conversion
shall be effected on the basis of the Applicable Price. LCH.Clearnet SA shall
additionally be entitled to apply discounts to such non-Euro denominated
Cash Collateral, at its discretion, as published on the Website.

(e)

Interest
LCH.Clearnet SA pays interest on non-Euro denominated Cash Collateral and
USD Cash Collateral deposited in the Eligible Commercial Banks.
The applicable interest rate is published by LCH.Clearnet SA on the Website.

(f)

Transfer of non-Euro denominated Cash Collateral (other than USD
denominated Cash Collateral to be recorded in the LCH FCM Client USD
Account)
On Day minus one
If:
(i)

a Clearing Member wishes to transfer additional non-Euro
denominated Cash Collateral to be recorded in its House Collateral
Account and, in the case of a CCM, in any of its CCM Client Collateral
Accounts; or

(ii)

a Clearing Member wishes to transfer non-Euro denominated Cash
Collateral to be recorded in any of its Collateral Accounts for the
purpose of substituting such non-Euro denominated Cash Collateral
for any Collateral recorded in its Collateral Accounts,

it shall notify LCH.Clearnet SA by submitting the relevant form by any means
as specified in a Clearing Notice. The Clearing Member must specify in such
form to which Collateral Account(s) the non-Euro denominated Collateral
should be recorded. The process that a Clearing Member and LCH.Clearnet
SA must follow to process the return of substituted Collateral to the Clearing
Member is set out in paragraph 3.7(g) (for Euro denominated Cash
Collateral), 3.8(i) (for USD denominated Cash Collateral), 3.10(c) (for Eligible
Collateral transferred with full title), 3.15(b) (for Pledged Eligible Collateral) or
3.17(b) (for US T-Bills), as applicable.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

18

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

In respect of a CCM only, if such CCM notifies to LCH.Clearnet SA that nonEuro denominated Cash Collateral will be transferred to the LCH Client NonEuro Account but the CCM does not specify to which CCM Client Collateral
Account(s) some or all of such amounts should be recorded, LCH.Clearnet
SA will treat such amounts which have not been specifically identified as
being for a particular CCM Client Collateral Account as CCM Unallocated
Client Collateral and record such amounts in the CCM Unallocated Client
Collateral Account when they are received.
The Clearing Member must notify LCH.Clearnet SA as set out above by no
later than 16:45 CET on Day minus one in order for the Clearing Member’s
request to be processed on the next following Business Day and to enable
the transfer of non-Euro denominated Cash Collateral to occur on Day. It is
the Clearing Member’s responsibility to ensure the due receipt by
LCH.Clearnet SA of the relevant notification. Accordingly, the Clearing
Member should confirm its request no later than 16:45 CET by a phone call to
LCH.Clearnet SA’s collateral management team on (+33) (0)1 70 37 66 86/66
37/65 35, although a failure to do so shall not invalidate any request actually
received by LCH.Clearnet SA.
On Day
The Clearing Member transfers the amount of the non-Euro denominated
Cash Collateral notified to LCH.Clearnet SA on Day minus one to the relevant
LCH Non-Euro Account opened with the Eligible Commercial Bank.
If non-Euro denominated Cash Collateral is received:
i)

before 10:30 CET on Day, such non-Euro denominated Cash
Collateral (other than CCM Unallocated Client Collateral) will form part
of the Margin Balance and be taken into account for the purposes of
the First Intraday Call on Day;

ii)

at or after 10:30 CET but prior to 11:45 CET on Day, such non-Euro
denominated Cash Collateral (other than CCM Unallocated Client
Collateral) will form part of the relevant Margin Balance and be taken
into account for the purposes of calculations in relation to a Collateral
substitution request which is to be effected using the Additional
Specific Collateral Slot;

iii)

at or after 11:45 CET but prior to 14:30 CET on Day, such non-Euro
denominated Cash Collateral (other than CCM Unallocated Client
Collateral) will form part of the relevant Margin Balance and be taken
into account for the purposes of the Second Intraday Call on Day;

iv)

at or after 14:30 CET on Day, such non-Euro denominated Cash
Collateral (other than CCM Unallocated Client Collateral) will form part
of the relevant Margin Balance and be taken into account for the
purposes of the Morning Call on the next following Business Day.

In respect of a CCM only, to the extent Cash Collateral has been credited to
its CCM Unallocated Client Collateral Account, the CCM must inform
LCH.Clearnet SA by no later than 16:00 CET on Day how the CCM
Unallocated Client Collateral should be recorded within its CCM Client
LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

19

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

Collateral Account(s). Where the CCM does not provide LCH.Clearnet SA
with this information within this timeframe, the CCM Unallocated Client
Collateral shall be returned to the relevant account of the CCM.
(g)

Transfer of USD denominated Cash Collateral to be recorded in the LCH
FCM Client USD Account
On Day minus one (before 17:00 CET)
If an FCM Clearing Member wishes to transfer USD denominated Cash
Collateral to be recorded in its FCM Client Collateral Account for the purpose
of substituting such USD denominated Cash Collateral for any Collateral
recorded in its FCM Client Collateral Account, it shall notify LCH.Clearnet SA
by submitting the relevant form by any means as specified in a Clearing
Notice. The process that an FCM Clearing Member and LCH.Clearnet SA
must follow to process the return of substituted Collateral to the FCM Clearing
Member is set out in paragraph 3.7(g) (for Euro denominated Cash
Collateral), 3.8(h) (for non-Euro denominated Cash Collateral) or 3.17(b) (for
US T-Bills transferred on behalf of FCM Clients), as applicable.
The form Clearing Member must notify LCH.Clearnet SA by no later than
17:00 CET on a Business Day (“Day minus one”) in order for the FCM
Clearing Member’s request to be processed and to enable the transfer to
occur no later than 18:00 CET on a Business Day (“Day minus one”). It is the
FCM Clearing Member’s responsibility to ensure the due receipt by
LCH.Clearnet SA of the relevant notification. Accordingly, the FCM Clearing
Member should confirm its request no later than 17:00 CET by a phone call to
LCH.Clearnet SA’s collateral management team on (+33) (0)1 70 37 66 86/66
37/65 35, although a failure to do so shall not invalidate any request actually
received by LCH.Clearnet SA.
On Day minus one (before 18:00 CET)
A FCM Clearing Member transfers the amount of the USD denominated Cash
Collateral, notified on Day minus one before 17:00 CET, to LCH.Clearnet SA’s
relevant LCH FCM Client USD Account opened with the Eligible Commercial
Bank.
If USD denominated Cash Collateral is received before 18:00 CET on Day
minus one, such USD denominated Cash Collateral will be taken into account
in the relevant FCM Margin Balance used for the Morning Margin Call on Day.

(h)

Return of non-Euro denominated Cash Collateral (other than USD
denominated Cash Collateral to be recorded in the LCH FCM Client USD
Account)
On Day minus one
A Clearing Member must notify LCH.Clearnet SA of its request to have nonEuro denominated Cash Collateral returned to it by submitting the relevant
form by any means as specified in a Clearing Notice. A Clearing Member
must specify, on this form, the account to which the non-Euro denominated
Cash Collateral should be returned.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

20

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

The Clearing Member must notify LCH.Clearnet SA as set out above by no
later than 16:00 CET on a Day minus one in order for the Clearing Member’s
request to be processed on the next following Business Day and to allow
LCH.Clearnet SA to give instructions (in the circumstances described below)
to make the transfer on Day during the Additional Specific Collateral Slot. It is
the Clearing Member’s responsibility to ensure the due receipt by
LCH.Clearnet SA of the relevant notification. Accordingly, the Clearing
Member should confirm its request by 16:00 CET by a phone call to
LCH.Clearnet SA’s Treasury Operations team on +33 1 70 37 66 86/66 37/65
35, although a failure to do so shall not invalidate any request actually
received by LCH.Clearnet SA.
Any request received by LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to this Paragraph 3.8(h)
shall be deemed firm and irrevocable.
On Day


In respect of a Clearing Member’s House Collateral Account and Client
Collateral Account(s)
Following the First Intraday Slot and, in any event, by 12:00 CET at the
latest, LCH.Clearnet SA will re-calculate the value of the non-Euro
denominated Cash Collateral to be returned to the Clearing Member (the
“Non-Euro Cash Collateral Value”) and:
1- provided LCH.Clearnet SA holds sufficient Collateral (other than
that which is to be returned) to cover the Margin Requirement for
the relevant Margin Account and the Non-Euro Cash Collateral
Value does not exceed the amount of non-Euro denominated Cash
Collateral previously provided to LCH.Clearnet SA through a
Collateral Call, LCH.Clearnet SA will process the return of the nonEuro denominated Cash Collateral to the Clearing Member in
accordance with the remaining provisions of this Paragraph 3.8(h);
or
2- if LCH.Clearnet SA does not hold sufficient Collateral (other than
that which is to be returned) to cover the Margin Requirement for
the relevant Margin Account, LCH.Clearnet SA will debit an
amount of Euro-denominated Cash Collateral equal to the NonEuro Cash Collateral Value from the relevant TARGET2 Account of
the Clearing Member (or the relevant cash account of its
TARGET2 Payment Agent) during the Additional Specific Collateral
Slot. Provided an amount of Euro-denominated Cash Collateral
equal to the Non-Euro Cash Collateral Value is received by
LCH.Clearnet SA, LCH.Clearnet SA will process the return of the
non-Euro denominated Cash Collateral to the Clearing Member in
accordance with the remaining provisions of this Paragraph 3.8(h).

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

21

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures



Collateral and Cash Payment

In respect of a CCM’s Buffer Collateral Account
Following the First Intraday Slot and, in any event, by 12:00 CET at the
latest, LCH.Clearnet SA will re-calculate the Non-Euro Cash Collateral
Value and:
1- provided LCH.Clearnet SA holds Cash Collateral (other than that
which is to be returned) in an amount at least equal to the CCM
Available Client Collateral Buffer, as determined at the time when
the request is received and processed by LCH.Clearnet SA, and
the amount does not exceed the amount of non-Euro denominated
Cash Collateral previously provided to LCH.Clearnet SA through a
Collateral Call, LCH.Clearnet SA will process a return of the NonEuro Cash Collateral Value in accordance with the remaining
provisions of this Paragraph 3.8(h) ; or
2- if LCH.Clearnet SA holds Cash Collateral (other than that which is
to be returned) in an amount below the CCM Available Client
Collateral Buffer, LCH.Clearnet SA will debit an amount of Eurodenominated Cash Collateral equal to the Non-Euro Cash
Collateral Value from the relevant TARGET2 Account of the CCM
(or the relevant cash account of its TARGET2 Payment Agent)
during the Additional Specific Collateral Slot. Provided an amount
of Euro-denominated Cash Collateral equal to the Non-Euro Cash
Collateral Value is received by LCH.Clearnet SA, LCH.Clearnet SA
will process the return of the non-Euro denominated Cash
Collateral to the CCM in accordance with the remaining provisions
of this Paragraph 3.8(h).



In respect of an FCM Unallocated Client Collateral Financial Account
Following the First Intraday Slot and, in any event, by 12:00 CET at the
latest, LCH.Clearnet SA will re-calculate the Non-Euro Cash Collateral
Value of the requested amount of FCM Unallocated Client Excess
Collateral recorded in the FCM Unallocated Client Collateral Financial
Account to be returned and will process a return of the Non-Euro Cash
Collateral Value in accordance with the remaining provisions of this
Paragraph 3.8(h).



Return of the Non-Euro Cash Collateral Value
In the event that LCH.Clearnet SA is required to, but has not been able
to, debit an amount of Euro-denominated Cash Collateral equal to the
Non-Euro Cash Collateral Value from the Clearing Member’s TARGET2
Account(s) or the relevant cash accounts of its TARGET2 Payment
Agent), the Clearing Member’s request to have non-Euro denominated
Cash Collateral returned to it will be deemed void and LCH.Clearnet SA
shall retain the non-Euro denominated Cash Collateral which the Clearing
Member requested to be returned. LCH.Clearnet SA’s inability to debit
Euro-denominated Cash Collateral equal to the Eligible Collateral Value
intra-day through TARGET2 shall not constitute a Payment Failure in
respect of the Clearing Member.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

22

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

Save in the circumstances described above, LCH.Clearnet SA will give
instructions to the Eligible Commercial Bank to credit the relevant account(s)
of the Clearing Member (as notified in the form on Day minus one) with the
non-Euro denominated Cash Collateral between 13:00 and 15:00 CET.
(i)

Return of USD denominated Cash Collateral recorded in the LCH FCM Client
USD Account
On Day
An FCM Clearing Member must notify LCH.Clearnet SA of its request to have
USD denominated Cash Collateral recorded in the LCH FCM Client USD
Account returned to it by submitting the relevant form by any means as
specified in a Clearing Notice. An FCM Clearing Member must specify, on this
form, the FCM Cleared Swaps Client Segregated Depository Account to
which the USD denominated Cash Collateral should be returned.
The FCM Clearing Member must notify LCH.Clearnet SA by no later than
17:00 CET on a Business Day (“Day ”) in order for the FCM Clearing
Member’s request to be processed on the same Business Day (“Day”) and to
allow LCH.Clearnet SA to give instructions (in the circumstances described
below) to make the transfer on Day. It is the FCM Clearing Member’s
responsibility to ensure the due receipt by LCH.Clearnet SA of the relevant
notification. Accordingly, the FCM Clearing Member should confirm its request
by 17:00 CET by a phone call to LCH.Clearnet SA’s Treasury Operations
team on +33 1 70 37 66 86/66 37/65 35, although a failure to do so shall not
invalidate any request actually received by LCH.Clearnet SA.
Any request received by LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to this Paragraph 3.8(i)
shall be deemed firm and irrevocable.
On Day


In respect of an FCM Clearing Member’s FCM Client Collateral Account
By 17:00 CET at the latest, LCH.Clearnet SA will re-calculate the value of
the USD denominated Cash Collateral to be returned to the FCM
Clearing Member (the “USD Cash Collateral Value”) and if:
1. LCH.Clearnet SA holds sufficient Collateral (other than that which
is to be returned) to cover the FCM Client Margin Requirement for
the relevant FCM Client Margin Account, LCH.Clearnet SA will
process the return of the USD denominated Cash Collateral to the
FCM Clearing Member (up to the amount of USD denominated
Cash Collateral provided originally by the FCM Clearing Member)
before 18:00 CET; or
2. LCH.Clearnet SA does not hold sufficient Collateral (other than
that which is to be returned) to cover the FCM Client Margin
Requirement for the relevant FCM Client Margin Account,
LCH.Clearnet SA will reject FCM Clearing Member request to have
USD denominated cash collateral returned to it.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

23

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

If FCM Clearing Member’s relevant FCM Margin Requirements are
covered with sufficient alternative collateral (other than that which is to be
returned), LCH.Clearnet SA will give instructions to the Eligible
Commercial Bank to credit the FCM Clearing Member’s relevant
account(s) (as notified in the form on Day) with the USD denominated
Cash Collateral immediately.
Such instructions will, in any event, be made on the same Business Day
(“Day”) at 18:00 CET, i.e. in advance of the relevant commercial bank’s
currency cut-off time (except in exceptional circumstances, as determined
by LCH.Clearnet SA in an objective and commercially reasonable
manner).


In respect of an FCM Unallocated Client Collateral Financial Account
Client Collateral Account
By 17:00 CET at the latest, LCH.Clearnet SA will re-calculate the USD
Cash Collateral Value of the requested amount of FCM Unallocated
Client Excess Collateral recorded in the FCM Unallocated Client
Collateral Financial Account and will process a return of the USD Cash
Collateral Value in accordance with the remaining provisions of this
Paragraph 3.8(i).

By exception to the time limits for notification as set out in paragraphs 3.8 (f), (g),
(h) and (i), in case of atypical market conditions (i.e. periods of time with reduced
activity and lowered liquidity), including but not limited to the end of the year period
(i.e. the period starting from 22 December of each year to 2 January of the
following year) LCH.Clearnet SA may inform by any means the Clearing Members
that notifications of movement (transfer or return) of non-Euro Cash Collateral, for
value on Day, must be received by LCH.Clearnet SA on Day minus five before
16.00 CET. Such information will contain the implementation measures of the
extension of the notification period.
3.9

ELIGIBLE COLLATERAL
A list of the securities that constitute Eligible Collateral, together with applicable
haircuts, is set out on the Website at http://www.lchclearnet.com/risk-collateralmanagement/collateral-management/acceptable-collateral.
LCH.Clearnet SA may amend this list in accordance with Article 4.2.7.1 of the CDS
Clearing Rule Book and this Paragraph 3.9.
For risk management purposes, LCH.Clearnet SA does not permit a Clearing
Member to transfer “self-issued securities” as Eligible Collateral (i.e. securities issued
by such Clearing Member or by any of its Affiliates).
(a)

Withholding tax
Each Clearing Member should ensure that the Eligible Collateral submitted to
LCH.Clearnet SA's accounts with custodians or Central Securities
Depositories or transferred to LCH.Clearnet SA’s pledged account at
Euroclear Bank pursuant to a collateral arrangement, or BNYM US pursuant
to a security arrangement, is not subject to withholding tax.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

24

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

If the Eligible Collateral is subject to withholding tax and a Clearing Member
does not request the return of Eligible Collateral prior to the relevant record
date of the securities to enable the Clearing Member to receive the gross
coupon or dividend, any coupon or dividend will be paid to the Clearing
Member by LCH.Clearnet SA net of withholding tax.
(b)

FX conversion and discounts
A discount shall be applied to the value of Eligible Collateral transferred by a
Clearing Member. The amount of the discount shall be notified on the
Website. Such discounts may be modified at any time and at the sole
discretion of LCH.Clearnet SA.
Whenever LCH.Clearnet SA is required to convert non-Euro denominated
Eligible Collateral, transferred by a Clearing Member, to Euros such
conversion shall be effected on the basis of the Applicable Price.

(c)

Events affecting the eligibility of Eligible Collateral
Where a security which constitutes Eligible Collateral is affected by one of the
following events (each, a “Collateral Event” and together, the “Collateral
Events”):
i)

a suspension from trading of such security by an exchange, or

ii)

the public announcement of a take-over bid, public exchange offer,
split or reverse split involving the entity issuing such security,

LCH.Clearnet SA will publish a Clearing Notice on the Website notifying
Clearing Members that such security will no longer constitute Eligible
Collateral. The Clearing Notice will specify the effective date, which shall be
no later than 2 Business Days following the date of the Collateral Event, as of
which the securities will no longer constitute Eligible Collateral.
Where a Clearing Member has transferred such securities to LCH.Clearnet
SA with full title or to LCH.Clearnet SA’s pledged account(s) at Euroclear
Bank, or to LCH.Clearnet SA’s segregated depository account(s) at BNYM
US, such Clearing Member should request a return of the securities in
accordance with Paragraph 3.10(c), 3.15 (b) or 3.17 (b), as appropriate, and
transfer alternative Collateral to LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with this
Section 3 to satisfy any of its Margin Requirements and its obligation in
respect of its House Excess Collateral Threshold.
Where the Clearing Member does not request a return of the securities and/or
transfer alternative Collateral to LCH.Clearnet SA prior to the effective date
specified in the Clearing Notice published in accordance with this
Paragraph 3.9(c), LCH.Clearnet SA will calculate the Margin Balance of the
Clearing Member’s House Collateral Account and each of its affected Client
Collateral Accounts, in accordance with Paragraph 3.2, on the effective date
specified in such Clearing Notice, excluding the suspended securities. As a
result of this calculation LCH.Clearnet SA shall determine whether or not
there is a Margin Shortfall for any Margin Account or in the case of a CCM
Gross Omnibus Segregated Account Structure, for all the CCM Client Margin
Accounts attached to that CCM Gross Omnibus Segregated Account
LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

25

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

Structure, of the Clearing Member. Where there is a Margin Shortfall this will
be detailed in the AC0103E Report which is sent to the Clearing Member in
accordance with Paragraph 5.13(b) of Section 5 of the Procedures and
LCH.Clearnet SA shall be taken into account for the purposes of calculating
the Required Collateral Amount for the purposes of the Morning Call on the
next Business Day.
For the avoidance of doubt, LCH.Clearnet SA shall retain the suspended
securities until such time as the Clearing Member requests their return in
accordance with this Paragraph 3.9(c) but they shall not be taken into account
for the purposes of calculating any Margin Balance of the Clearing Member
on subsequent Business Days.
(d)

Transfer of Eligible Collateral (other than US T-Bills transferred by an FCM
Clearing Member on behalf of FCM Clients)
Subject to the requirement applicable to US T-Bills transferred by an FCM
Clearing Member on behalf of FCM Clients as set out in Paragraph 3.9 (e)
below, a Clearing Member can transfer Eligible Collateral to LCH.Clearnet
SA, either:

(e)

i)

with full title, in accordance with Paragraph 3.10 to be recorded in its
House Collateral Account and the case of a CCM only, in any of its
CCM Client Collateral Accounts; or

ii)

by way of security interest whereby the Eligible Collateral would be
transferred to the relevant LCH.Clearnet SA pledged account at
Euroclear Bank and held pursuant to a Belgian law pledge in
accordance with Paragraph 3.15 and to be recorded in its House
Collateral Account and in the case of a CCM only, in any of its CCM
Client Collateral Accounts.

Transfer of US T-Bills provided by an FCM Clearing Member on behalf of
FCM Clients
If an FCM Clearing Member wishes to transfer US T-Bills on behalf of FCM
Clients, it shall be transferred by way of security interest and recorded in
LCH.Clearnet SA’s segregated depository account held at BNYM US in
accordance with Paragraph 3.14.

3.10

ELIGIBLE COLLATERAL TRANSFERRED WITH FULL TITLE
(a)

Securities accounts
LCH.Clearnet SA holds Eligible Collateral transferred to it with full title in the
following sets of accounts opened in the books of Euroclear Bank and
Euroclear France:
i)

a security account in each of Euroclear Bank and Euroclear France
used to credit Eligible Collateral which is transferred by Clearing
Members to be recorded in their House Collateral Account (the “LCH
House Securities Account”); and

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

26

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

ii)

Collateral and Cash Payment

a security account in each of Euroclear Bank and Euroclear France
used to credit Eligible Collateral which is transferred by Clearing
Members to be recorded in any of their Client Collateral Accounts (the
“LCH Client Securities Account”).

The LCH House Securities Account and the LCH Client Securities Account
shall be together referred to as the “LCH Securities Accounts”.
LCH.Clearnet SA may invest Eligible Collateral provided to LCH.Clearnet SA
with full title in accordance with Paragraph 3.11(b).
(b)

Transfer of Eligible Collateral
On Day
If:
(i)

a Clearing Member wishes to transfer additional Eligible Collateral with
full title to be recorded in its House Collateral Account, and in the case
of a CCM, in any of its CCM Client Collateral Accounts; or

(ii)

a Clearing Member wishes to transfer Eligible Collateral with full title to
be recorded in its House Collateral Account, and in the case of a CCM,
in its CCM Client Collateral Account, for the purpose of substituting
such Eligible Collateral for any Collateral recorded in its Collateral
Accounts,

it shall notify LCH.Clearnet SA of its request to transfer such Eligible
Collateral with LCH.Clearnet SA by submitting the relevant form by any
means as specified in a Clearing Notice. The process that a Clearing Member
and LCH.Clearnet SA must follow to process the return of substituted
Collateral to the Clearing Member is set out in paragraph 3.7(g) (for Euro
denominated Cash Collateral), 3.8(h) (for non-Euro denominated Cash
Collateral), 3.8(i) (for USD denominated Cash Collateral),3.15(b) (for Pledged
Eligible Collateral) or 3.17(b) (for US T-Bills transferred on behalf of FCM
Clients), as applicable.
In respect of a CCM only, if such CCM notifies to LCH.Clearnet SA that
Eligible Collateral will be transferred to the LCH Client Securities Account but
the CCM does not specify to which CCM Client Collateral Account(s) some or
all such Eligible Collateral should be recorded, LCH.Clearnet SA will not
accept the request to transfer such Eligible Collateral.
The Clearing Member must notify LCH.Clearnet SA as set out above by no
later than 17:15 CET on a Business Day (“Day”) in order for the Clearing
Member’s request to be processed on Day and to enable the transfer to occur
on Day. It is the Clearing Member’s responsibility to ensure the due receipt by
LCH.Clearnet SA of the relevant notification. Accordingly, the Clearing
Member should confirm the request by 17:15 CET by a phone call to
LCH.Clearnet SA’s collateral management team on (+33) (0)1 70 37 66 86/66
37/65 35, although a failure to do so shall not invalidate any request actually
received by LCH.Clearnet SA.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

27

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

On Day
A Clearing Member must submit instructions (Franco or Sell Free of payment)
via Euroclear Bank or ESES (Euroclear France), as applicable, and
LCH.Clearnet SA must submit instructions (Buy free of payment) if Clearing
Member uses Sell free of payment, for matching through Euroclear Bank or
ESES (Euroclear France).
If LCH.Clearnet SA receives the confirmation of settlement from Euroclear
Bank or ESES (Euroclear France):
i)

before 10:30 CET on Day, the Eligible Collateral will form part of the
relevant Margin Balance and be taken into account for the purposes of
the First Intraday Call on Day;

ii)

at or after 10:30 CET but prior to 11:45 CET on Day, the Eligible
Collateral will form part of the relevant Margin Balance and be taken
into account for the purposes of calculations in relation to a Collateral
substitution request which is to be effected using Additional Specific
Collateral Slot;

iii)

at or after 11:45 CET but prior to 14:30 CET on Day, the Eligible
Collateral will form part of the relevant Margin Balance and be taken
into account for the purposes of the Second Intraday Call on Day;

iv)

at or after 14:30 CET but prior to 17:15 CET on Day, the Eligible
Collateral will form part of the relevant Margin Balance and be taken
into account solely for the purposes of novating Intraday
Transactions;

iv)

(c)

at or after 17:15 CET on Day, the Eligible Collateral will form part of
the relevant Margin Balance and be taken into account for the
purposes of the Morning Call on the next following Business Day.

Return of Eligible Collateral
On Day minus one
A Clearing Member must notify LCH.Clearnet SA of a request to have Eligible
Collateral returned to it by submitting the relevant form by any means as
specified in a Clearing Notice.
The Clearing Member must notify LCH.Clearnet SA by no later than 16:00
CET on a Business Day (“Day minus one”) in order for the Clearing Member’s
request to be processed on the next following Business Day (“Day”) and to
allow LCH.Clearnet SA to give instructions (in the circumstances described
below) to make the transfer to occur on Day during the Additional Specific
Collateral Slot. It is the Clearing Member’s responsibility to ensure the due
receipt by LCH.Clearnet SA of the relevant notification. Accordingly, the
Clearing Member should confirm the request by 16:00 CET by a phone call to
LCH.Clearnet SA’s collateral management team on +33 1 70 37 66 86/66
37/65 35, although a failure to do so shall not invalidate any request actually
received by LCH.Clearnet SA.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

28

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

Any request received by LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to this process shall be
deemed firm and irrevocable.
On Day
Following the First Intraday Slot and, in any event, by 12:00 CET at the latest,
LCH.Clearnet SA will re-calculate the value of the Eligible Collateral to be
returned (the “Eligible Collateral Value”) and if:
1- LCH.Clearnet SA holds sufficient Collateral (other than that which
is to be returned) to cover the Margin Requirement for the relevant
Margin Account, LCH.Clearnet SA will process the return of the
Eligible Collateral on request of the Clearing Member in
accordance with the remaining provisions of this Paragraph
3.10(c); or
2-

LCH.Clearnet SA does not hold Collateral (other than that which is
to be returned) to cover the Margin Requirement for the relevant
Margin Account, LCH.Clearnet SA will debit an amount of Eurodenominated Cash Collateral equal to the Eligible Collateral Value
from the relevant TARGET2 Account(s) of the Clearing Member
(or the relevant cash accounts of its TARGET2 Payment Agent)
during the Additional Specific Collateral Slot. Provided an amount
of Euro-denominated Cash Collateral equal to the Eligible
Collateral Value is received by LCH.Clearnet SA, LCH.Clearnet
SA will process the return of the Eligible Collateral to the Clearing
Member in accordance with the remaining provisions of this
Paragraph 3.10(c).

In the event that LCH.Clearnet SA is required to, but has not been able to,
debit an amount of Euro-denominated Cash Collateral equal to the Eligible
Collateral Value from the Clearing Member’s TARGET2 Account(s) or the
relevant cash accounts of its TARGET2 Payment Agent), the Clearing
Member’s request to have Eligible Collateral returned to it will be deemed
void and LCH.Clearnet SA shall retain the Eligible Collateral which the
Clearing Member requested to be returned. LCH.Clearnet SA’s inability to
debit Euro-denominated Cash Collateral equal to the Eligible Collateral Value
intra-day through TARGET2 shall not constitute a Payment Failure in respect
of the Clearing Member.
Save in the circumstances described above, LCH.Clearnet SA will send
instructions (Sell Free of Payment) submitted via Euroclear Bank or ESES
(Euroclear France) and the Clearing Member shall submit instructions (Buy
Free of Payment), for matching through Euroclear Bank or ESES (Euroclear
France) between 13:00 and 15:00 CET.
Such instructions will, in any event, be sent on Day in advance of the relevant
Central Securities Depository/International Central Securities Depository cutoff time (except in exceptional circumstances, as determined in an objective
and commercially reasonable manner).
By exception to the time limits for notification as set out in paragraphs 3.10 (b) and
(c), in case of atypical market conditions (i.e. periods of time with reduced activity
and lowered liquidity), including but not limited to the end of the year period (i.e. the
LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

29

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

period starting from 22 December of each year to 2 January of the following year)
LCH.Clearnet SA may inform by any means the Clearing Members that
notifications of movement (transfer or return) of Eligible Collateral transferred with
full title, for value on Day, must be received by LCH.Clearnet SA on Day minus five
before 16.00 CET. Such information will contain the implementation measure of the
extension of the notification period.
3.11

LCH.CLEARNET SA’S RIGHTS IN RESPECT OF COLLATERAL
TRANSFERRED WITH FULL TITLE
(a)

Full title
Collateral (except Pledged Eligible Collateral and US T-Bills recorded in
LCH.Clearnet SA’s segregated depository account at BNYM US) shall be
transferred to LCH.Clearnet SA with full title.

(b)

Use of Collateral
LCH.Clearnet SA may use Collateral (except Pledged Eligible Collateral and
US T-Bills recorded in LCH.Clearnet SA’s segregated depository account at
BNYM US) in accordance with the principles set out in the LCH Group Risk
Collateral Policy and all applicable legal and regulatory provisions governing
Collateral applicable to LCH.Clearnet SA acting as a clearing house and/or a
securities settlement system.
LCH.Clearnet SA shall, in its sole discretion, invest Cash Collateral in liquid
principal protected assets, as detailed on the collateral management section
of the Website, and in accordance with the principles set out in the LCH
Group Risk Collateral Policy.

(c)

French law restrictions on use
Collateral that is transferred with full title to LCH.Clearnet SA shall be subject
to all applicable legal and regulatory provisions governing Collateral provided
to a clearing house and securities settlement systems, including, without
limitation, Article L. 330-2, and L. 440-7 and L. 440-8 of the French Monetary
and Financial Code.
Under Articles L. 440-7 and L. 440-8 of the French Monetary and Financial
Code:
i)

without prejudice to Paragraph 3.11(b), Collateral transferred for the
purpose of meeting a Clearing Member’s Margin Requirements shall
only be used by LCH.Clearnet SA in the event that amounts are due in
the context of the liquidation of such Clearing Member’s Cleared
Transactions (where it is a Defaulting Clearing Member) in accordance
with Article 4.3.3.1 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book and/or in the event
that any other sums are owed by the relevant Clearing Member to
LCH.Clearnet SA; and

ii)

no creditor of either a Clearing Member or LCH.Clearnet SA, no
representative of a Clearing Member and no insolvency official
(mandataire judiciaire) appointed under French insolvency
proceedings (under Book VI of the French Commercial Code) may

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

30

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

claim any right over the Collateral transferred for the purpose of
meeting a Clearing Member’s Margin Requirements (even in the
context of an LCH Insolvency Proceeding or insolvency proceedings
opened outside of France which are equivalent or similar to those set
out in Book VI of the French Commercial Code).
Under Article L. 330-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code:
i)

without prejudice to Paragraph 3.11(b), Collateral transferred by a
Clearing Member shall be used by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance
with the CDS Clearing Rules; and

ii)

no creditor of either a Clearing Member or LCH.Clearnet SA may claim
any right over the Collateral transferred by a Clearing Member (even in
the context of an LCH Insolvency Proceeding, insolvency proceedings
opened outside France which are equivalent to those set out in Book
VI of the French Commercial Code, civil enforcement proceedings or
the exercise of an opposition right (droit d'opposition)).

In the event of any conflict between the provisions of Article L. 211-38,
whereby Collateral may be enforced in accordance with the provisions of the
Financial Collateral Directive as transposed into French law, and the
provisions of Articles L. 440-7 and L. 440-8, the provisions of Articles L. 440-7
and L. 440-8 shall prevail.
(d)

Governing law
Pursuant to Article 9(2) of the Settlement Finality Directive, the validity and
enforceability of a guarantee on book entry securities is assessed according
to the law of the Member State where the account, in which the rights with
respect to the relevant securities are recorded, is located.
Accordingly, when Eligible Collateral is posted to one of the relevant
LCH.Clearnet SA’s accounts located in France, Belgium or Portugal, the
related securities are transferred to LCH.Clearnet SA with full title, in
accordance with applicable law as follows:
i)

France: Articles L. 440-7 and L. 330-2 of the French Monetary and
Financial Code; or

ii)

Belgium: Article 12 of the Belgian law dated 15 December 2004
“relative aux sûretés financières et portant des dispositions fiscales
diverses en matière de conventions constitutives de sûreté et de prêts
portant sur des instruments financiers”; or

iii)

Portugal: Article 261 n°4 of the Portuguese Securities Code.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

31

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

3.12

Collateral and Cash Payment

CORPORATE EVENTS OCCURRING IN RESPECT OF ELIGIBLE
COLLATERAL TRANSFERRED WITH FULL TITLE
(a)

Coupons and dividends
Dividends will be remitted to the Clearing Member in one of the following
ways at the option of the Clearing Member:
i)

share dividends will be remitted to the Clearing Member's accounts
with a depository as notified to LCH.Clearnet SA for this purpose; or

ii)

cash dividends and coupons will be credited to the relevant TARGET2
Account(s) of the Clearing Member (or the relevant cash account(s) of
the Clearing Member’s TARGET2 Payment Agent) or the Clearing
Member’s accounts with a central bank as notified to LCH.Clearnet SA
for this purpose.

A minimum of 1 Business Day before the relevant record date, LCH.Clearnet
SA will contact Clearing Members by telephone to the telephone number
specified by the Clearing Member in its application for membership of the
CDS Clearing Service to ask which of the above options the Clearing Member
prefers. If a Clearing Member does not express a preference, or if
LCH.Clearnet SA has insufficient time to process a Clearing Member’s
preference, the dividend or coupon will be credited (in accordance with
Paragraph 3.7(b)) to the relevant TARGET2 Account(s) of the Clearing
Member (or the relevant cash account(s) of the Clearing Member’s TARGET2
Payment Agent).
Dividends and coupons will only be remitted or credited to the Clearing
Member’s account(s) once LCH.Clearnet SA has received the relevant
dividends and coupons. Dividends and coupons are remitted on the same
day if received before 16:00 CET, or the next Business Day if received after
16:00 CET.
(b)

Subscription or allotment rights
Where a subscription or allotment right can be detached from a security
provided as Eligible Collateral it will be remitted to the Clearing Member's
account with the relevant depository as soon as LCH.Clearnet SA has
received the relevant right. The remittance will be performed in Euroclear
Bank or Euroclear France on the same day if the right is received before
16:00 CET, or the next Business Day if received after 16:00 CET.

(c)

Maturity
If a security provided as Eligible Collateral is due to mature and a Clearing
Member wishes it to be returned, then a Clearing Member should request the
return of that security before the relevant maturity date in accordance with
Paragraph 3.10.
Where a security provided as Eligible Collateral matures, LCH.Clearnet SA
will credit (in accordance with Paragraph 3.7(b)) the Clearing Member’s
TARGET2 Accounts (or the relevant cash accounts of such Clearing
Member’s TARGET2 Payment Agent) on the same day if funds are received

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

32

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

before 16:00 CET, or will credit the Clearing Member’s TARGET2 Accounts
(or the relevant cash accounts of such Clearing Member’s TARGET2
Payment Agent) on the next day if the funds are received after 16:00 CET.
3.13

ELIGIBLE COLLATERAL TRANSFERRED TO LCH.CLEARNET SA’S
PLEDGED ACCOUNTS AT EUROCLEAR BANK
A Clearing Member may provide Eligible Collateral by way of a collateral
arrangement taking the form of a Pledge Agreement put in place in accordance with
this Paragraph 3.13.
(a)

Collateral arrangement in the form of a Pledge Agreement
The Pledge Agreement shall be implemented as follows:
i)

A Clearing Member wishing to post Eligible Collateral pursuant to the
collateral arrangement will be required to enter into a Pledge
Agreement with LCH.Clearnet SA which is governed by Belgian law (in
particular the Belgian Royal Decree n° 62 of 10 November 1967
concerning the custody and clearing of fungible financial instruments
(as coordinated in 2004) and the Law of 15 December 2004 on
financial collateral implementing the Directive 2002/47/EC on financial
collateral arrangements);

ii)

LCH.Clearnet SA and the Clearing Member will be required to enter
into standard form documentation with Euroclear Bank, taking the form
of the Single Pledgor Pledged Account Terms and Conditions
("SPPA") and the Terms and Conditions Governing Use of Euroclear;

iii)

Under the SPPA, Euroclear Bank agrees to act as pledge holder in
accordance with the terms set out in the SPPA;

iv)

LCH.Clearnet SA and each Clearing Member willing to post Pledged
Eligible Collateral under the Pledge Agreement will open the following
separate special pledged accounts in Euroclear Bank's books:
(x)

a pledged account which shall be used to register Pledged
Eligible Collateral recorded in the House Collateral Account of
such Clearing Member (the “House Pledged Account”), and

(y)

in the case of a CCM, a pledged account which shall be used
to register Pledged Eligible Collateral recorded in its CCM
Client Collateral Account(s) (the “Client Pledged Account”).

The House Pledged Account and the Client Pledged Account shall be
together referred to as the “Pledged Accounts”.
(b)

Pledged Accounts
The Pledged Accounts shall be held in the name of LCH.Clearnet SA as
pledgee. However, the title in the Pledged Eligible Collateral shall not be
transferred to LCH.Clearnet SA (see Article 2 in fine and Article 13 of the
Royal Decree 62 - the pledgee only acts as a “custodian” and does not

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

33

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

become the owner of the securities (ownership stays with the pledgor (see in
particular Article 2079 of the Belgian civil code)).
(c)

Use of Pledged Eligible Collateral
Subject to Paragraphs 3.13(d) and 3.13(e), LCH.Clearnet SA shall be
prevented from using for any purpose, re-hypothecating or transferring
Pledged Eligible Collateral which is pledged to LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to
the collateral arrangement described in this Paragraph 3.13.

(d)

Perfection and enforceability
Provided that LCH.Clearnet SA provides Euroclear Bank with a copy of the
Default Notice issued by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Article 4.3.1.3
of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, LCH.Clearnet SA shall be able to perfect and
enforce the pledge on Pledged Eligible Collateral (meaning that it shall be
entitled to apply the Pledged Eligible Collateral transferred by the Defaulting
Clearing Member as envisaged by Article 4.3.3.1 of the CDS Clearing Rule
Book), against the Defaulting Clearing Member, any other creditors of the
Defaulting Clearing Member and/or the trustee in bankruptcy, without having
to notify, or secure any further consent from the Defaulting Clearing Member
or any other person, and without having to obtain any court approval (see
article 8 of the Law of 15 December 2004).
In the event that LCH.Clearnet SA elects to enforce the pledge by
appropriating the Client Pledged Eligible Collateral in accordance with the
Article 4.3.2.6 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, the Eligible Securities so
appropriated shall be credited to the LCH Client Securities Account.

(e)

Transfer of Client Cleared Transactions and related Client Assets in respect of
a CCM
Provided that:
i)

LCH.Clearnet SA provides Euroclear Bank with a copy of the Client
Full Transfer Form transmitted by the Receiving Clearing Member to
LCH.Clearnet SA, in accordance with Section 5 of the Procedures;
and

ii)

the deadline for the Carrying Clearing Member to reject the transfer
of Client Cleared Transactions and Client Assets, by submission of
the Carrying Clearing Member Response Form in accordance with
Section 5 of the Procedures, has expired,

LCH.Clearnet SA shall be able to instruct Euroclear Bank to transfer the
relevant Client Pledged Eligible Collateral from the Carrying Clearing
Member’s Client Pledged Account to the Receiving Clearing Member’s
Client Pledged Account in accordance with the conditions and timeline set
out in Section 5 of the Procedures.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

34

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

3.14

Collateral and Cash Payment

US
T-BILLS
TRANSFERRED
TO
DEPOSITORY ACCOUNT AT BNYM US

LCH.CLEARNET

SA’S

An FCM Clearing Member may provide US T-Bills by way of security interest
governed by laws of the State of New York in accordance with this Paragraph 3.14
and the FCM CDS Clearing Regulations.
(a)

Segregated depository account opened with BNYM US
To permit an FCM Clearing Member to transfer US T-Bills on behalf of its FCM
Clients, LCH.Clearnet SA has opened a segregated depository account in
BNYM US’ books which shall be used to register US T-Bills in connection with
FCM Cleared Transactions cleared for its FCM Clients (the “LCH Client
Depository Account”).
The LCH Client Depository Account forms part of the LCH Cleared Swaps
Client Segregated Depository Account for purposes of the FCM CDS Clearing
Regulations.

(b)

Transfer of FCM Client Cleared Transactions and related Account Assets
Provided that LCH.Clearnet SA provides BNYM US with a copy of the Client
Full Transfer Form transmitted by the Receiving Clearing Member to
LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Section 5 of the Procedures,
LCH.Clearnet SA shall be able to transfer the relevant Eligible Collateral from
the Carrying Clearing Member’s LCH Client Depository Account to the
Receiving Clearing Member’s LCH Client Depository Account in accordance
with the conditions and timeline set out in Section 5 of the Procedures.

3.15

ELIGIBLE COLLATERAL TRANSFER PURSUANT TO THE PLEDGE
AGREEMENT
(a)

Transfer of Pledged Eligible Collateral
On Day
If:
(i)

a Clearing Member wishes to transfer additional Pledged Eligible
Collateral to be recorded in its House Collateral Account and, in the
case of a CCM, in any of its CCM Client Collateral Accounts; or

(ii)

a Clearing Member wishes to transfer Pledged Eligible Collateral to be
recorded in any of its Collateral Accounts for the purpose of
substituting such Pledged Eligible Collateral for any Collateral
recorded in its Collateral Accounts,

it shall notify LCH.Clearnet SA of its request to transfer Pledged Eligible
Collateral to the relevant Pledged Account by submitting the relevant form by
any means as specified in a Clearing Notice. The process that a Clearing
Member and LCH.Clearnet SA must follow to process the return of substituted
Collateral to the Clearing Member is set out in paragraph 3.7(g) (for Euro
denominated Cash Collateral), 3.8(h) (for non-Euro denominated Cash

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

35

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

Collateral), 3.8(i) (for USD denominated Cash Collateral), 3.10(c) (for Eligible
Collateral transferred with full title) or 3.17(b) (for US T-Bills), as applicable.
In respect of a CCM only, if such CCM notifies to LCH.Clearnet SA that
Pledged Eligible Collateral will be transferred to the Client Pledged Account
but the CCM does not specify to which CCM Client Collateral Account(s)
some or all such Pledged Eligible Collateral should be recorded,
LCH.Clearnet SA will not accept the request to transfer such Pledged Eligible
Collateral.
The Clearing Member must notify LCH.Clearnet SA as set out above by no
later than 17:15 CET on a Business Day (“Day minus one”) in order for the
Clearing Member’s request to be processed on the next following Business
Day (“Day”) and to enable the transfer to occur on Day. It is the Clearing
Member’s responsibility to ensure the due receipt by LCH.Clearnet SA of the
relevant notification. Accordingly, the Clearing Member should confirm the
request by 17:15 CET by a phone call to LCH.Clearnet SA’s collateral
management team on + 33 1 70 37 66 86/66 37/65 35, although a failure to
do so shall not invalidate any request actually received by LCH.Clearnet SA.
On Day
A Clearing Member must submit instructions (Franco or Sell Free of payment)
via Euroclear Bank and LCH.Clearnet SA must submit instructions (Buy free
of payment) if Clearing Member uses Sell free of payment, for matching
through Euroclear Bank.
If LCH.Clearnet SA receives the confirmation of settlement from Euroclear
Bank:
i)

before 10:30 CET on Day, the Pledged Eligible Collateral will form part
of the relevant Margin Balance and be taken into account for the
purposes of the First Intraday Call on Day;

ii)

at or after 10:30 CET and prior to 11:45 CET on Day, the Pledged
Eligible Collateral will form part of the relevant Margin Balance and be
taken into account for the purposes of calculations in relation to a
Collateral substitution request which is to be effected using the
Additional Specific Collateral Slot;

iii)

before at or after 11:45 CET and prior to 14:30 CET on Day, the
Pledged Eligible Collateral will form part of the relevant Margin
Balance and be taken into account for the purposes of the Second
Intraday Call on Day;

iv)

at or after 14:30 CET but prior to 17:15 CET on Day, the Pledged
Eligible Collateral will form part of the relevant Margin Balance and
be taken into account solely for the purposes of novating Intraday
Transactions;

v)

if LCH.Clearnet SA receives the confirmation of settlement from
Euroclear Bank at or after 17:15 CET on Day, the Pledged Eligible
Collateral will form part of the relevant Margin Balance and be taken

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

36

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

into account for the purposes of the Morning Call on the next
following Business Day.
(b)

Release of Pledged Eligible Collateral
On Day minus one
A Clearing Member must notify LCH.Clearnet SA of a request to have
Pledged Eligible Collateral released by submitting the relevant form by any
means as specified in a Clearing Notice.
The Clearing Member must notify LCH.Clearnet SA by no later than 16:00
CET on a Business Day (“Day minus one”) in order for the Clearing Member’s
request to be processed on the next following Business Day (“Day”) and to
allow LCH.Clearnet SA to give instructions (in the circumstances described
below) to make the transfer to occur on Day. It is the Clearing Member’s
responsibility to ensure the due receipt by LCH.Clearnet SA of the relevant
notification. Accordingly, the Clearing Member should confirm the request by
16:00 CET by a phone call to LCH.Clearnet SA’s collateral management team
on +33 1 70 37 66 86/66 37/65 35, although a failure to do so shall not
invalidate any request actually received by LCH.Clearnet SA. Any request
received by LCH pursuant to this process shall be deemed firm and
irrevocable
On Day
Following the first intraday TARGET2 payment window (11:25-11:50 CET)
and, in any event, by 12:00 CET latest, LCH.Clearnet SA will re-calculate the
value of the Pledged Eligible Collateral to be released (the “Pledged Eligible
Collateral Value”) and if:
1- LCH.Clearnet SA holds Collateral (other than that which is to be
released) to cover the Margin Requirement for the relevant Margin
Account, LCH.Clearnet SA will process the release of the Pledged
Eligible Collateral on request of the Clearing Member in
accordance with the remaining provisions of this Paragraph
3.15(b); or
2- LCH.Clearnet SA does not hold sufficient Collateral (other than
that which is to be released) to cover the Margin Requirement for
the relevant Margin Account, LCH.Clearnet SA will notify the
Clearing Member by 12:20 CET and debit an amount of Euro
denominated Cash Collateral equal to the Pledged Eligible
Collateral Value from the relevant TARGET2 Account(s) of the
Clearing Member (or the relevant cash account(s) of its TARGET2
Payment Agent) during the Additional Specific Collateral Slot.
Provided an amount of Euro-denominated Cash Collateral equal to
the Pledged Eligible Collateral Value is received by LCH.Clearnet
SA, LCH.Clearnet SA will process the return of the Pledged
Eligible Collateral to the Clearing Member in accordance with the
remaining provisions of this Paragraph 3.15(b).
In the event that LCH.Clearnet SA is required to, but has not been able to,
debit an amount of Euro-denominated Cash Collateral equal to the Pledged

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

37

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

Eligible Collateral Value from the Clearing Member’s TARGET2 Accounts or
the relevant cash accounts of its TARGET2 Payment Agent), the Clearing
Member’s request to have Pledged Eligible Collateral released to it will be
deemed void and LCH.Clearnet SA shall not release Pledged Eligible
Collateral to the Clearing Member. LCH.Clearnet SA’s inability to debit Eurodenominated Cash Collateral equal to the Pledged Eligible Collateral Value
intra-day through TARGET2 shall not constitute a Payment Failure in respect
of the Clearing Member.
Save in the circumstances described above, LCH.Clearnet SA will send
instructions (Sell Free of Payment) submitted via Euroclear Bank and the
Clearing Member shall submit instructions (Buy Free of Payment), for
matching through Euroclear Bank between 13:00 and 15:00.
LCH.Clearnet SA’s instructions via Euroclear Bank shall constitute the release
of the relevant Pledged Eligible Collateral.
Such instructions will, in any event, be sent on the same Business Day in
advance of the relevant International Central Securities Depository cut-off
time (except in exceptional circumstances, as judged in an objective and
commercially reasonable manner).
By exception to the time limits for notification as set out in paragraphs 3.15 (a) and
(b), in case of atypical market conditions (i.e. periods of time with reduced activity
and lowered liquidity), including but not limited to the end of the year period (i.e. the
period starting from 22 December of each year to 2 January of the following year)
LCH.Clearnet SA may inform by any means the Clearing Members that
notifications of movement (transfer or release) of Eligible Pledged Collateral, for
value on Day, must be received by LCH.Clearnet SA on Day minus five before
16.00 CET. Such information will contain the implementation measure of the
extension of the notification period.
3.16

TRANSFER OF CLIENT PLEDGED
FOLLOWING AN EVENT OF DEFAULT

ELIGIBLE

COLLATERAL

In the event that a Defaulting Clearing Member or a Backup Clearing Member is a
CCM, any transfer of Client Pledged Eligible Collateral shall be undertaken in
accordance with this Paragraph 3.16 and the CDS Clearing Documentation.
(a)

Transfer of Client Pledged Eligible Collateral to LCH.Clearnet SA
In order to transfer Client Pledged Eligible Collateral to LCH.Clearnet SA, in
order to satisfy a request made in accordance with Article 4.3.2.1(i) of the
CDS Clearing Rule Book, the Defaulting Clearing Member must provide
LCH.Clearnet SA with its consent to the debit of Client Pledged Eligible
Collateral from its Client Pledged Account by Euroclear, pursuant to an
instruction of LCH.Clearnet SA, and credit of the Client Pledged Eligible
Collateral to be credited to the LCH Client Securities Account. The Defaulting
Clearing Member must evidence its consent by submitting the relevant form
by any means as specified in a Clearing Notice.
Following the receipt of the consent of the Defaulting Clearing Member,
LCH.Clearnet SA will submit instructions via Euroclear Bank. When
LCH.Clearnet SA receives the confirmation of settlement from Euroclear Bank

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

38

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

or Euroclear France, as applicable, LCH.Clearnet SA shall update the relevant
CCM Client Collateral Account(s) of the Defaulting Clearing Member to reflect
that such Eligible Collateral has been transferred with full title to LCH.Clearnet
SA.
Provided the Defaulting Clearing Member has sent its consent in accordance
with this Paragraph 3.16(a), within the timeframe specified by LCH.Clearnet
SA pursuant to Article 4.3.2.1(i), the Defaulting Clearing Member shall be
treated as having satisfied its obligation to transfer ownership in the Client
Pledged Eligible Collateral to LCH.Clearnet SA as required by the CDS
Admission Agreement. If, however, the Defaulting Clearing Member has not
sent its consent within the timeframe specified by LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant
to Article 4.3.2.1(i), LCH.Clearnet SA shall be entitled to enforce the security
interest granted to it under, and in accordance with, the Pledge Agreement
and, in accordance with the CDS Clearing Rule Book by appropriation of the
Defaulting Clearing Member’s Client Pledged Eligible Collateral.
(b)

Transfer of Eligible Collateral to the Backup Clearing Member
On the day prior to the registration of the Relevant Client Cleared
Transactions and the Ported Collateral in the CCM Client Account Structure of
the Backup Clearing Member, in accordance with the CDS Client Clearing
DMP, LCH.Clearnet SA will update its books and records so that the Eligible
Collateral recorded in the LCH Client Securities Account is recorded as
Eligible Collateral which has been transferred with full title by the Backup
Clearing Member to be recorded in the relevant CCM Client Collateral
Account(s) of the Backup Clearing Member.
Once the books and records update has been processed, the relevant Eligible
Collateral will form part of the CCM Margin Balance for the relevant CCM
Client Margin Account of the Backup Clearing Member to be taken into
account for the purposes of the Morning Call on the next following Business
Day. If the Backup Clearing Member wishes that such Eligible Collateral be
transferred to its relevant Client Pledged Account, it shall follow the process to
substitute the Eligible Collateral for Pledged Eligible Collateral as set out in
Paragraph 3.10(c) and 3.15(a) of this Section 3.

3.17

TRANSFER OF US T-BILLS ON BEHALF OF FCM CLIENTS
(a)

Transfer of Eligible Collateral consisting of US T-Bills on behalf of FCM
Clients
On Day
If an FCM Clearing Member wishes to transfer Eligible Collateral consisting of
US T-Bills to be recorded in its FCM Client Collateral Account for the purpose
of substituting such Eligible Collateral for any Collateral recorded in its FCM
Client Collateral Account, it shall notify LCH.Clearnet SA of its request to
transfer such Eligible Collateral to the LCH Client Depository Account by
submitting the relevant form by any means as specified in a Clearing Notice.
The process that an FCM Clearing Member and LCH.Clearnet SA must follow
to process the return of substituted Collateral to the FCM Clearing Member is
set out in paragraph 3.7(g) (for Euro denominated Cash Collateral), 3.8(h) (for

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

39

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

non-Euro denominated Cash Collateral) or 3.8(i) (for USD denominated Cash
Collateral), as applicable.
The FCM Clearing Member must notify LCH.Clearnet SA as set out above by
no later than 17:15 CET on Day in order for the FCM Clearing Member’s
request to be processed before 18:00 CET on the same Day. It is the FCM
Clearing Member’s responsibility to ensure the due receipt by LCH.Clearnet
SA of the relevant notification. Accordingly, the FCM Clearing Member should
confirm the request by 17:15 CET by a phone call to LCH.Clearnet SA’s
collateral management team on + 33 1 70 37 66 86/66 37/65 35, although a
failure to do so shall not invalidate any request actually received by
LCH.Clearnet SA.
On Day
An FCM Clearing Member must submit instructions (Franco or Sell Free of
payment) via BNYM US and LCH.Clearnet SA must submit instructions (Buy
free of payment) if an FCM Clearing Member uses Sell free of payment, for
matching through BNYM US.
If LCH.Clearnet SA receives the confirmation of settlement from BNYM US
before 18:00 CET on Day, US T-Bills will be taken into account in the relevant
Margin Balance.
(b)

Release of Eligible Collateral consisting of US T-Bills on behalf of FCM Clients

On Day
An FCM Clearing Member must notify LCH.Clearnet SA of a request to have
US T-Bills released by submitting the relevant form by any means as
specified in a Clearing Notice.
The FCM Clearing Member must notify LCH.Clearnet SA as set out above by
no later than 17:00 CET on a Business Day (“Day”) in order for the FCM
Clearing Member’s request to be processed and to allow LCH.Clearnet SA to
give instructions (in the circumstances described below) to make the transfer
to occur on the Business Day (“Day”) before 18:00 CET. It is the FCM
Clearing Member’s responsibility to ensure the due receipt by LCH.Clearnet
SA of the relevant notification. Accordingly, the FCM Clearing Member should
confirm the request by 17:00 CET by a phone call to LCH.Clearnet SA’s
collateral management team on +33 1 70 37 66 86/66 37/65 35, although a
failure to do so shall not invalidate any request actually received by
LCH.Clearnet SA. Any request received by LCH pursuant to this process shall
be deemed firm and irrevocable.
On Day
By 17:00 CET at the latest, LCH.Clearnet SA will re-calculate the value of US
T-Bills to be released (the “Eligible Collateral Value”) and if:
1- LCH.Clearnet SA holds Collateral (other than that which is to be
released) to cover the FCM Client Margin Requirement for the
relevant FCM Client Margin Account, LCH.Clearnet SA will

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

40

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

process the release of the Eligible Collateral consisting of US TBills on request of the FCM Clearing Member; or
2- LCH.Clearnet SA does not hold sufficient Collateral (other than
that which is to be released) to cover the FCM Client Margin
Requirement for the relevant FCM Client Margin Account,
LCH.Clearnet SA will reject the FCM Clearing Member’s request.
LCH.Clearnet SA will send instructions (Sell Free of Payment) submitted via
BNYM US and the FCM Clearing Member shall submit instructions (Buy Free
of Payment), for matching through BNYM US between 17:00 and 18:00.
LCH.Clearnet SA’s instructions via BNYM US shall constitute the release of
the relevant US T-Bills.
Such instructions will, in any event, be made on the same Business Day
(“Day”) at 18:00 CET, i.e. in advance of the BNYM US’s cut-off time (except in
exceptional circumstances, as determined by LCH.Clearnet SA in an
objective and commercially reasonable manner).
By exception to the time limits for notification as set out in paragraphs 3.17 (a) and
(b), in case of atypical market conditions (i.e. periods of time with reduced activity
and lowered liquidity), including but not limited to the end of the year period (i.e. the
period starting from 22 December of each year to 2 January of the following year)
LCH.Clearnet SA may inform by any means the FCM Clearing Members that
notifications of movement (transfer or release) of US T-Bills, for value on Day, must
be received by LCH.Clearnet SA on Day minus five before 18.00 CET. Such
information will contain the implementation measure of the extension of the
notification period.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

41

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

3.18

Collateral and Cash Payment

CASH PAYMENTS
(a)

Currencies for Cash Payments
A Clearing Member is required to satisfy the following Cash Payment
obligations in accordance with the following table:

Cash Payment Type

Cash Payment

CDS-related payments (Initial Payment
Amount, Fixed Amounts, cash amounts due
upon the occurrence of Credit Events and cash
amounts due in connection with an MTM
change)

Cash in CDS Contractual
Currency

Variation Margin, Price Alignment Interest

Cash in CDS Contractual
Currency

Clearing House Adjustments

Cash in
Currency

Fees

Cash in Euro

Remuneration

Cash in the currency of
the relevant Cash
Collateral deposit

an Eligible

By exception to the above table, LCH.Clearnet SA shall be entitled to require
from a Clearing Member that it performs its Cash Payments obligations in a
currency other than the CDS Contractual Currency of the relevant Cleared
Transaction(s), in the conditions and manner as set out in Paragraph 3.18
(d) below.
(b)

Cash Payments in Euro
With respect to a Clearing Member’s Cleared Transactions with a CDS
Contractual Currency in Euro, the relevant Clearing Member is required to
satisfy the associated Cash Payment obligations through TARGET2. Where
a Clearing Member is required to make a Cash Payment in Euro, its relevant
TARGET2 Account(s) (or the relevant cash account(s) of its TARGET2
Payment Agent) will be automatically debited by LCH.Clearnet SA using its
Power of Attorney.
Where a Clearing Member is due to receive a Cash Payment in Euro, its
relevant TARGET2 Account(s) (or the relevant cash account(s) of its
TARGET2 Payment Agent) will be automatically credited by LCH.Clearnet
SA using its Power of Attorney.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

42

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

(c)

Collateral and Cash Payment

Cash Payments in USD
With respect to a Clearing Member’s Cleared Transactions with a CDS
Contractual Currency in USD, LCH.Clearnet SA will require such Clearing
Member to satisfy the associated Cash Payment obligations in USD. For the
purpose of making or receiving Cash Payments in USD, LCH.Clearnet SA
will use the following accounts opened in its name in the books of BNYM
US:
(i)

a cash account used to debit or credit USD to satisfy Cash Payments
obligations in USD with respect to all relevant House Cleared
Transactions of each Clearing Member (the “LCH House BNYM
Account”);

(ii)

with respect to Clients of a Clearing Member:
(x)

a cash account used to debit or credit USD to satisfy Cash
Payments obligations in USD with respect to all relevant Client
Cleared Transactions of each CCM (the “LCH CCM Client
BNYM Account”); or

(y)

a cash account used to debit or credit USD to satisfy Cash
Payments obligations in USD with respect to all relevant Client
Cleared Transactions of each FCM Clearing Member (the “LCH
FCM Client BNYM Account”),

together referred to as the “LCH Client BNYM Accounts” and
individually as a “LCH Client BNYM Account”.
The LCH House BNYM Account and the LCH Client BNYM Accounts shall
be together referred to as the “LCH BNYM Accounts”.
For the purpose of satisfying its Cash Payments obligations in USD, a
Clearing Member shall open, or use a Payment Agent having, one or more
cash account(s) in the books of BNYM US (the “BNYM Accounts”).
A CCM has no obligation to hold two BNYM Accounts (or arrange its
Payment Agent to hold two cash account(s)) for the purposes of satisfying
its Cash Payments obligations in respect of (i) its House Cleared
Transactions and (ii) its Client Cleared Transactions. It may either:
(x)

hold one BNYM Account (or one cash account of its Payment
Agent), in which case such BNYM Account will be used for the
debits and credits made out of both the LCH House BNYM
Account and the LCH Client BNYM Account; or

(y)

hold two BNYM Accounts (or two cash accounts of its Payment
Agent), in which case one BNYM Account will be used for the
debits and credits made out of the LCH House BNYM Account
and the other will be used for the debits and credits made out of
the LCH Client BNYM Account.

An FCM Clearing Member has an obligation to hold two BNYM Accounts (or
arrange its Payment Agent to hold two cash account(s)) for the purposes of
LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

43

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

satisfying its Cash Payments obligations in respect of (i) its House Cleared
Transactions and (ii) its Client Cleared Transactions. Therefore, an FCM
Clearing Member will hold two BNYM Accounts (or two cash accounts of its
Payment Agent), in which case one BNYM Account will be used for the
debits and credits made out of the LCH House BNYM Account and the other
will be used for the debits and credits made out of the LCH FCM Client
BNYM Account.
If a Clearing Member wishes to add a new BNYM Account or replace an
existing BNYM Account with another, it may do so by providing
LCH.Clearnet SA with the details of the relevant BNYM Account with at least
15 days’ prior notice (unless otherwise agreed by LCH.Clearnet SA).
Where a Clearing Member is required to make a Cash Payment in USD, its
relevant BNYM Account(s) (or the relevant cash account(s) of its Payment
Agent) will be automatically debited by LCH.Clearnet SA using its Power of
Attorney.
Where a Clearing Member is due to receive a Cash Payment in USD, its
relevant BNYM Account(s) (or the relevant cash account(s) of its BNYM
Payment Agent) will be automatically credited by LCH.Clearnet SA using its
Power of Attorney.
(d)

Timing for Cash Payments
Debiting or crediting the TARGET2 Account(s) or BNYM Account(s) will
occur on each Cash Payment Day, at the times of the Initial Slot and First
Intraday Slot set out in Paragraph 3.7(c) above except that, when such
debiting or crediting relates to Cash Payments made by an FCM Clearing
Member in respect of its Client Variation Margin Requirements, it will occur
in accordance with the following time slots:
(x)

FCM Client VM initial slot: 08:30-09:05 CET; and

(y)

FCM Client VM first intraday slot: 11:30-12:00 CET,

with the exception that crediting any BNYM Account(s) of a Clearing
Member will occur by no later than 16:30 CET on that Cash Payment Day.
In the event that (i) any BNYM Account(s) of a Clearing Member cannot be
debited within the time slots set out above in this Paragraph 3.18 (d) and (ii)
such Clearing Member has not satisfied its Cash Payments obligations in
USD by:
(x)

10:00 CET when the relevant Cash Payments were to be made
during the Initial Slot; or

(z)

(y)
12:30 CET when the relevant Cash Payments were to be
made during the First Intraday Slot,

such Clearing Member shall be required to satisfy such Cash Payments
obligations in Euro through TARGET2 at the next mandatory time slot as set
out in Paragraph 3.7 (c) above. LCH.Clearnet SA shall convert the USD
amount in respect of such Cash Payment obligation into a Euro amount at
LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

44

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Collateral and Cash Payment

the FX rate dealt by LCH.Clearnet SA on the market and shall notify the
relevant Clearing Member of such Euro amount in accordance with, subject
to and at the times set out in Section 5 of the Procedures. The relevant
Clearing Member will be liable for costs incurred by LCH.Clearnet SA in
connection with the conversion of those Cash Payments initially due in USD
into Euro, that will be debited from the relevant TARGET2 Account(s) of that
Clearing Member (or the relevant cash account(s) of its TARGET2 Payment
Agent).
Once the relevant cash amount is debited by LCH.Clearnet SA, it will satisfy
the Clearing Member’s Cash Payment obligations.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

45

Published on 14 April 2016

EXHIBIT E-6.4

LCH.Clearnet SA
CDS Clearing Procedures
Section 4 – Eligibility Requirements,
Eligible Index Versions and
Eligible Reference Entities
18 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Contents
CONTENTS

SECTION 4 – ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS, ELIGIBLE INDEX VERSIONS AND
ELIGIBLE REFERENCE ENTITIES

4.1

ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS ................................................................................. 1

4.2

ELIGIBLE INDEX VERSIONS .................................................................................. 3

4.3

ELIGIBLE REFERENCE ENTITIES........................................................................... 4

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

i

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Eligibility Requirements,
Eligible Index Versions and Eligible Reference Entities

Capitalised terms used in this Eligibility Requirements, Eligible Index Versions and Eligible
Reference Entities Procedure and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning
given pursuant to the remainder of the CDS Clearing Documentation or the ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions, as such terms are defined in the document entitled "CDS Clearing
Rule Book" published by LCH.Clearnet SA, as amended from time to time.
4.1

ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS
(a)

LCH.Clearnet SA provides CDS Clearing Services in relation to Original
Transactions which comply with the requirements set out in paragraph 4.1(c)
below (the “Eligibility Requirements”).

(b)

Following receipt from DTCC of the Gold Records File on a Weekly
Backloading Start Day, LCH.Clearnet SA will extract the Original Transaction
Data in relation to the relevant Backloading Transaction. Such Backloading
Transaction will then be subject to the Eligibility Controls pursuant to Article
3.1.1.3 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book.

(c)

The following criteria shall constitute the Eligibility Requirements of an
Original Transaction for the purposes of Section 3.1.1 (Weekly Backloading
Cycle), Section 3.1.2 (Daily Backloading Cycle) and Section 3.1.4 (Intraday
Process) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book:
(i)

the relevant Clearing Member is not: (I) a Clearing Member that has
been suspended in accordance with Section 2.4.1 (Suspension) of the
CDS Clearing Rule Book; (II) a Defaulting Clearing Member; (III) a
Clearing Member in respect of which a Payment Failure has occurred
and is continuing; or (IV) a Clearing Member that is no longer
permitted to introduce risk to LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with
Section 2.2.4 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book;

(ii)

LCH.Clearnet SA is permitted, pursuant to Applicable Law, to clear
such Original Transaction for the relevant Clearing Member’s own
account (or for that of its Client or Affiliate, as applicable);

(iii)

the Original Transaction is:
(A)

subject to paragraph 4.2 below, a CDS referencing an Index
Version provided that the following requirements, as set out in
the Eligible Index Versions List (as such terms are defined in
paragraph 4.2(d) below) are met:
(1) the Index Version is an Eligible Index Version (as such
terms are defined in paragraph 4.2(b) below);
(2) the term is an Eligible Term (as such term is defined in
paragraph 4.2(c) below); and
(3) the currency of the Original Notional Amount is eligible for
clearing; or

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

1

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures
(B)

Eligibility Requirements,
Eligible Index Versions and Eligible Reference Entities
subject to paragraph 4.3 below, a CDS referencing a single
Reference Entity, provided that the following requirements are
met:
(1) the Reference Entity is an Eligible Reference Entity (as
such term is defined in paragraph 4.3(a) below) in respect
of the relevant ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions;
(2) the Reference Obligation is an Eligible Reference
Obligation (as such term is defined in paragraph 4.3(b)(ii)
below) for such Reference Entity in respect of the relevant
ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions;
(3) in respect of an Original Transaction which incorporates
the Credit Derivatives Physical Settlement Matrix: the
Transaction Type is an Eligible Transaction Type (as such
term is paragraph 4.3(b)(iv) below);
(4) in respect of an Original Transaction which does not
incorporate the Credit Derivatives Physical Settlement
Matrix: such Original Transaction is documented by a
master confirmation which sets out terms which are
substantially similar to those provided for in the Credit
Derivatives Physical Settlement Matrix in respect of an
Eligible Transaction Type;
(5) in respect of an Eligible Transaction Type which is
“Standard North American Corporate” (as such term is
defined in the Physical Settlement Matrix), “Restructuring”
is not specified as “Applicable”;
(6) the currency of the Floating Rate Payer Calculation
Amount is eligible for clearing;
(7) the Fixed Rate is an Eligible Fixed Rate for such Reference
Entity (as such term is defined in paragraph 4.3(b)(i)
below);
(8) the Fixed Rate Payer Payment Dates are 20 March, 20
June, 20 September and 20 December (each such date, a
“Standard Payment Date”);
(9) the Scheduled Termination Date is an Eligible Scheduled
Termination Date (as such term is defined in paragraph
4.3(b)(vii) below); and
(10) the Reference Entity is neither the relevant Clearing
Member, an Affiliate of the relevant Clearing Member nor,
where the relevant Clearing Member has also entered into
a Client Transaction corresponding to such Original
Transaction, the relevant Client or an Affiliate of the Client.

The requirements mentioned in sub-paragraphs (1), (2), (6) and (8)
are set out in the Eligible Reference Entities List (as such term is
defined in paragraph 4.3(c) below).
LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

2

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Eligibility Requirements,
Eligible Index Versions and Eligible Reference Entities

For the avoidance of doubt, the requirements set out in this subparagraph 4.1(c)(iii) are checked solely on the basis of the Original
Transaction Data received from an Approved Trade Source System or
DTCC, as applicable. LCH.Clearnet SA is not aware of, and does not
check, the actual terms of the confirmation of the Original
Transactions;

4.2

(iv)

the Original Transaction references an Eligible Index Version or an
Eligible Reference Entity which has a First Novation Date that has
occurred on or prior to the Clearing Day on which the Original
Transaction is received by LCH.Clearnet SA and a Novation Cut-off
Date that has not occurred on or prior to such Clearing Day;

(v)

in respect of an Intraday Transaction, the trade reference for each of
the protection buyer and protection seller, in respect of such Original
Transaction, to be used when booking the trade in DTCC has been
included together with the Transaction Data; and

(vi)

in respect of a Daily Backloading Transaction, the Daily Backloading
Novation Day does not fall on the day preceding a Standard Payment
Date.

(d)

The Eligibility Requirements shall be deemed satisfied if the relevant Original
Transaction is not rejected, pursuant to the CDS Clearing Rule Book, prior to
the Novation Time.

(e)

If the Eligibility Requirements set out in paragraphs 4.1(c) above are deemed
satisfied at the Novation Time in respect of an Original Transaction, pursuant
to paragraph 4.1(d) above, then LCH.Clearnet SA shall, in accordance with
Section 3.1.1 (Weekly Backloading Cycle), Section 3.1.2 (Daily Backloading
Cycle) and Section 3.1.4 (Intraday Process) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book,
as applicable, novate such Original Transaction in accordance with
Section 3.1.6 (Novation Process) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book.

(f)

For the avoidance of doubt, Article 3.1.6.4 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book
shall apply regardless of whether the Eligibility Requirements were in fact
satisfied.

ELIGIBLE INDEX VERSIONS
(a)

“Index Version” is defined as a version of a CDS index series as issued by
the Index Publisher.

(b)

LCH.Clearnet SA will, in consultation with the CDSClear Product Committee,
identify the Index Versions which shall be considered as “Eligible Index
Versions”.

(c)

With respect to each Eligible Index Version, LCH.Clearnet SA will, in
consultation with the CDSClear Product Committee, determine, without
limitation:
(i)

each term which is eligible for clearing (an “Eligible Term”); and

(ii)

the currency of the Original Notional Amount which is eligible for
clearing.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

3

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures
(d)

The Eligible Index Versions identified in accordance with paragraph 4.2(a) as
well as the Eligible Terms shall be set out in a table published on the Website
(the “Eligible Index Versions List”).

(e)

LCH.Clearnet SA may, in consultation with the CDSClear Product Committee,
amend the Eligible Index Versions List and following such amendment will
inform the Clearing Members of:

(f)

4.3

Eligibility Requirements,
Eligible Index Versions and Eligible Reference Entities

(i)

in the case of an addition of an Eligible Index Version to such list, the
relevant First Novation Date; or

(ii)

in the case of a deletion of an Eligible Index Version from such list, the
relevant Novation Cut-off Date.

Notwithstanding the above:
(i)

a Novation Cut-off Date or a First Novation Date arising as a result of
the occurrence of a Credit Event or a Succession Event shall be
determined in accordance with the CDS Clearing Supplement; and

(ii)

if and for so long as any Clearing Member has one or more Open
Position(s) registered in any of its Margin Accounts, such Clearing
Member may submit for clearing an Original Transaction which does
not meet the Eligibility Requirements set out in paragraph 4.1(c)(iv)
pursuant to the CDS Clearing Documentation if such Original
Transaction is a risk reducing transaction (as determined by
LCH.Clearnet SA) in respect of the relevant Margin Account and it is
not unlawful or illegal for LCH.Clearnet SA to accept such Original
Transaction for clearing.

ELIGIBLE REFERENCE ENTITIES
(a)

LCH.Clearnet SA will, in consultation with the CDSClear Product Committee,
identify the Reference Entities which shall be considered as “Eligible
Reference Entities” under each of the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives
Definitions and the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions.

(b)

With respect to each Eligible Reference Entity under the 2003 ISDA Credit
Derivatives Definitions and/or the 2014 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions,
LCH.Clearnet SA will, in consultation with the CDSClear Product Committee,
determine, without limitation, the following characteristics:
(i)

each Fixed Rate that is eligible for clearing (an “Eligible Fixed Rate”);

(ii)

each Reference Obligation that is eligible for clearing (an “Eligible
Reference Obligation”);

(iii)

the Reference Obligation under which the Cleared Transaction(s) on
the Eligible Reference Entity will be registered (the “CDSClear
Preferred Reference Obligation”) where no Standard Reference
Obligation is published for this Eligible Reference Entity;

(iv)

the Transaction Type that will be eligible for clearing with respect to
each relevant Eligible Reference Entity (the “Eligible Transaction
Type”);

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

4

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

Eligibility Requirements,
Eligible Index Versions and Eligible Reference Entities

(v)

the currency(ies) of the Floating Rate Payer Calculation Amount that
is, or are, eligible for clearing with respect to each relevant Eligible
Reference Entity;

(vi)

the date of publication of the Credit Derivatives Physical Settlement
Matrix which the Cleared Transaction(s) on the Eligible Reference
Entity will reference (the “Relevant Physical Settlement Matrix”);
and

(vii)

each Scheduled Termination Date that is eligible for clearing (the
“Eligible Scheduled Termination Date”).

(c)

The Eligible Reference Entities identified in accordance with paragraph 4.3(a)
above as well as the characteristics mentioned in paragraph 4.3(b) above
shall be set out in a table published on the Website (the “Eligible Reference
Entities List”).

(d)

LCH.Clearnet SA may, in consultation with the CDSClear Product Committee,
amend the Eligible Reference Entities List by issuing a Clearing Notice. Any
such Clearing Notice shall specify:

(e)

(i)

in the case of an addition of an Eligible Reference Entity to such list,
the relevant First Novation Date;

(ii)

in the case of a deletion of an Eligible Reference Entity from such list,
the relevant Novation Cut-off Date; or

(iii)

in the case of an amendment to the characteristics of any Eligible
Reference Entity, the Clearing Day on which such amendment shall
take effect in accordance with Article 1.2.2.8 of the CDS Clearing Rule
Book.

Notwithstanding the above:
(i)

a Novation Cut-off Date or a First Novation Date arising as a result of
the occurrence of a Credit Event, a Succession Event or a Rename
Event shall be determined in accordance with the CDS Clearing
Supplement; and

(ii)

if and for so long as any Clearing Member has one or more Open
Position(s) registered in any of its Margin Accounts, such Clearing
Member may submit for clearing an Original Transaction which does
not meet the Eligibility Requirements set out in paragraph 4.1(c)(iv)
pursuant to the CDS Clearing Documentation if such Original
Transaction is a risk reducing transaction (as determined by
LCH.Clearnet SA) in respect of the relevant Margin Account and it is
not unlawful or illegal for LCH.Clearnet SA to accept such Original
Transaction for clearing.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

5

Published on 14 April 2016

EXHIBIT E-6.5

LCH.Clearnet SA
CDS Clearing Procedures
Section 5 - CDS Clearing Operations
18 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

CONTENTS

SECTION 5 - CDS CLEARING OPERATIONS

5.1

THE CDS CLEARING SERVICE ............................................................................... 3

5.2

BACKLOADING TRANSACTIONS ............................................................................ 3

5.3

CLEARING OF CLIENT TRADE LEGS ................................................................... 10

5.4

CDS CLEARING MEMBER REPORTING ............................................................... 12

5.5

TRADE COMPRESSION......................................................................................... 12

5.6

PRE-DEFAULT PORTABILITY................................................................................ 15

5.7

EARLY TERMINATION ........................................................................................... 21

5.8

UPDATING THE TRADE INFORMATION WAREHOUSE ....................................... 21

5.9

REGISTRATION OF SINGLE NAME CLEARED TRANSACTIONS ........................ 23

5.10

DIFFERENCES IN RECORDS ................................................................................ 24

5.11

NOTIFICATION OF REGISTRATION ...................................................................... 24

5.12

HEDGING TRANSACTIONS ................................................................................... 24

5.13

REVERSING OF TRADES ...................................................................................... 24

5.14

MAXIMUM NOTIONAL AMOUNT ............................................................................ 24

5.15

RECOUPONING ..................................................................................................... 24

5.16

REPORTS ............................................................................................................... 25

5.17

REGULATORY REPORTING .................................................................................. 40

5.18

END OF DAY PRICE CONTRIBUTION ................................................................... 41

APPENDIX 1
CLIENT – PARTIAL TRANSFER FORM ............................................................................. 46
APPENDIX 2
PART A: CCM INDIVIDUAL SEGREGATED ACCOUNT CLIENT – FULL TRANSFER
FORM………...………………………………………………………………………………………48
PART B: CCM OMNIBUS SEGREGATED ACCOUNT CLIENT – FULL TRANSFER
FORM………...………………………………………………………………………………………50
PART C : FCM CLIENT- FULL TRANSFER FORM ............................................................ 53
APPENDIX 3
CCM CLIENT TRANSFER – CARRYING CLEARING MEMBER RESPONSE FORM ........ 55
APPENDIX 4: FCM CLIENT TRANSFER – CARRYING CLEARING MEMBER RESPONSE
FORM………………………………………………………………………………………………...58

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

2

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

Capitalised terms used in this CDS Clearing Operations Procedure and not otherwise defined
herein shall have the meaning given pursuant to the remainder of the CDS Clearing
Documentation, as such term is defined in the document entitled "CDS Clearing Rule Book"
published by LCH.Clearnet SA, as amended from time to time.
5.1

THE CDS CLEARING SERVICE
(a)

Membership of Industry Organisations or Systems

Pursuant to Article 2.2.6.1 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, LCH.Clearnet SA
designates:
(i)

the Approved Trade Source Systems identified in a Clearing Notice;

(ii)

ISDA; and

(ii)

TIW,

as the industry organisations of which all Clearing Members must be a member
(provided that, with respect to Approved Trade Source System membership, a
Clearing Member must be a member of at least one (but is not required to be a
member of each identified Approved Trade Source System). LCH.Clearnet SA may,
from time to time, and where it is reasonable for it to do so or is otherwise necessary
for a Clearing Member to utilise the CDS Clearing Service, designate other industry
organisations or systems, and will issue a Clearing Notice where this is the case.
(b)

Business Days

A "Business Day" is defined in the CDS Clearing Rule Book. It is every day, except
days on which TARGET2 is closed, irrespective of public holidays in France or
elsewhere.
(c)

Opening Hours

LCH.Clearnet SA is open from 08.00 CET until 19.30 CET on all Business Days.
During the Opening Hours the operations team of LCH.Clearnet SA is available. The
operations team handles all questions relating to trade management. The customer
technical helpdesk is open from 07.00 CET until 22.00 CET for any problem
concerning accessing files.
(d)

Clearing Days

A "Clearing Day" is defined in the CDS Clearing Rule Book. It is a day on which the
CDS Clearing System is open for business. For the avoidance of doubt, all Clearing
Days will be Business Days, but not all Business Days will be Clearing Days.
5.2

BACKLOADING TRANSACTIONS
Unless otherwise provided herein, any email required to be sent to LCH.Clearnet SA
under this paragraph 5.2 should be sent to the Operations Department at the
following email address: cdsclear.ops@lchclearnet.com.
(a)

Backloading Failure
Pursuant to Article 3.1.3.1 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, if a Backloading
Failure occurs in respect of one or more Clearing Member(s), the following will

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

3

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

be removed from the relevant Weekly Backloading Cycle and/or Daily
Backloading Cycle:
(i)
the trade leg of every Backloading Transaction which was due to give
rise to the registration of a Cleared Transaction in the Trade Account(s) of the
Failed Backloading Clearing Member(s);
(ii)
the corresponding trade leg(s) for each Backloading Transaction
mentioned in Paragraph 5.2(a) (i) above and which were due to give rise to the
registration of Cleared Transaction(s) in any Trade Account(s) of any Clearing
Member other than the Failed Backloading Clearing Member(s) (the
“Counterparty Clearing Member(s)”); and
(iii)
the following Backloading Transactions, which are “linked” to the
Backloading Transactions referenced in Paragraph 5.2(a)(i) and (ii) above for
the purposes of Article 3.1.3.1 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, and comprise:
(a) the trade legs of any other Backloading Transactions due to give rise to the
registration of a Cleared Transaction in any Trade Account of the
Counterparty Clearing Member;
(b) the corresponding trade legs of each Backloading Transaction mentioned
in Paragraph 5.3 (a)(iii)(a) above and which were due to give rise to the
registration of Cleared Transaction(s) in any Trade Account(s) of any
Clearing Members other than the Failed Backloading Clearing Member(s)
and the Counterparty Clearing Member(s) (the “Indirect Counterparty
Clearing Member(s)”).
The provisions of Paragraph 5.3(a)(iii) shall apply mutatis mutandis to the Backloading
Transactions to which the Indirect Counterparty Clearing Member(s) are party;
accordingly, any Backloading Transaction which is “linked” to a Backloading
Transaction entered into by an Indirect Counterparty Clearing Member will also be
removed from the relevant Weekly Backloading Cycle and/or Daily Backloading Cycle.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

4

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

The following diagram illustrates the Backloading Transactions which will be removed
from the relevant Weekly Backloading Cycle and/or Daily Backloading Cycle.

In this diagram, Backloading Transactions entered into between seven Clearing
Members have been considered:
-

CM1 has entered into Backloading Transactions with CM2 and CM3;

-

CM2 has entered into Backloading Transactions with CM1 and CM4;

-

CM3 has entered into Backloading Transactions with CM1;

-

CM4 has entered into Backloading Transactions with CM2; and

-

CM5, CM6 and CM7 have entered into Backloading Transactions with each other.

Assuming CM1 is a Failed Backloading Clearing Member, the following Backloading
Transactions will be removed from the relevant Weekly Backloading Cycle and/or Daily
Backloading Cycle and shall become Rejected Transactions:
-

Backloading Transactions entered into by CM1;

-

Backloading Transactions entered into by CM2 and CM3, including any
Backloading Transaction which has not been entered into with CM1; and

-

Backloading Transactions entered into by CM4 (for the avoidance of doubt, which
would also include any Backloading Transaction which was not entered into with
CM2 but with other Clearing Members, should it be the case).

Only the Backloading Transactions entered into by CM5, CM6 and CM7 will be
novated.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

5

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

(b)

CDS Clearing Operations

Weekly Backloading Cycle

Pursuant to Section 3.1.1 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, LCH.Clearnet SA operates a
Weekly Backloading Cycle in accordance with the timetable set out below. For the
avoidance of doubt, only CDS with two House Trade Legs can be submitted for
clearing through the Weekly Backloading Cycle.

PROCESSING SCHEDULE OF THE WEEKLY
BACKLOADING CYCLE
Time
No.

(all references
below are to
Continental
European Time)

Monday (the
Weekly
Backloading
Start Day):

Action

LCH.Clearnet SA receives the Gold Records File from DTCC.

By 02:00
Day 1

Monday:
By:09:30

Day 2

Tuesday:
By 17:00

On the basis of the Gold Records File, LCH.Clearnet SA prepares
the Clearing Eligibility Report which it makes available to each
Clearing Member via any reporting mechanism specified in a
Clearing Notice.
The Clearing Eligibility Report contains, in respect of each Clearing
Member, the Weekly Backloading Transactions which have
successfully passed the Eligibility Controls.

Each Clearing Member shall upload on any means of access
specified in a Clearing Notice an updated Clearing Eligibility Report
containing only the Weekly Backloading Transactions that such
Clearing Member wishes to submit for clearing to LCH.Clearnet SA
(the “CM Clearing Eligibility Report”). A Clearing Member may
provide an amended CM Clearing Eligibility Report which will replace
the previous CM Clearing Eligibility Report upon receipt by
LCH.Clearnet SA.
If a Clearing Member does not return any CM Clearing Eligibility
Report by 17:00, none of its Weekly Backloading Transactions will
be included in the Weekly Backloading Cycle.

LCH.Clearnet SA shall carry out the following actions:
Wednesday:
Day 3
By 08:00

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

(i)

reconcile the CM Clearing Eligibility Reports received from all
Clearing Members in order to determine the Weekly
Backloading Transactions for which both relevant Clearing
Members have designated for clearing in their respective CM
Clearing Eligibility Reports. Such matching Weekly Backloading

6

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

Transactions will constitute the Eligible Weekly Backloading
Transactions,
(ii) reconcile the Eligible Weekly Backloading Transactions with the
latest Gold Records File to ensure that such Eligible Weekly
Backloading Transactions have not been removed from the
TIW,
(iii) provide, on the basis of the results of the reconciliations set out
in (i) and (ii) above, each Clearing Member with a DTCC
Matching and Eligibility Report containing those of their Eligible
Weekly Backloading Transactions which have not been
removed from the TIW, and
(iv) provide each Clearing Member with the Simulation Margin
Requirements Result File which is (x) prepared on the basis of
the End of Day Contributed Prices provided to LCH.Clearnet SA
on Tuesday in accordance with paragraph 5.15 below and (y)
contains an estimate of the House Margin Requirement that
would be required if the Eligible Weekly Backloading
Transactions contained in the DTCC Matching and Eligibility
Report were registered as Cleared Transactions in the Clearing
Member’s House Account Structure at the time of such
estimate.

Wednesday:
By 11:00

Wednesday:
By 11:00
Day 3

Wednesday:
By 12:00

Wednesday:
By 12:00

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

An Eligible Weekly Backloading Transaction may be removed from
the Weekly Backloading Cycle provided that (i) both relevant
Clearing Members agree to such removal and (ii) each relevant
Clearing Member sends an email to LCH.Clearnet SA which
specifies the Transaction Data of the Eligible Weekly Backloading
Transaction which should be removed from the Weekly Backloading
Cycle.

If it appears that an error has been made by LCH.Clearnet SA in a
DTCC Matching and Eligibility Report and the Eligible Weekly
Backloading Transactions included in such report are not the same
as the Weekly Backloading Transactions of the relevant Clearing
Members (save where there is a discrepancy owing to particular
Weekly Backloading Transactions having been removed from the
TIW between 19:30 on Tuesday and the issuance of the DTCC
Matching and Eligibility Report), the relevant Clearing Member shall
notify this error by email to LCH.Clearnet SA.

If LCH.Clearnet SA confirms that an error has been made in a DTCC
Matching and Eligibility Report, the Weekly Backloading Cycle will
be cancelled and LCH.Clearnet SA shall inform each Clearing
Member of such cancellation by 12:00.

LCH.Clearnet SA will confirm to each Clearing Member whether the
Weekly Backloading Cycle will proceed or not. Upon such
confirmation, all Eligible Weekly Backloading Transactions
(excluding any Weekly Backloading Transactions that have become
Rejected Transactions) shall become Irrevocable Weekly

7

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

Backloading Transactions.

Irrevocable Weekly Backloading Transactions will be pre-registered
in the House Account Structure of each relevant Clearing Member
save:
Thursday:
(the Weekly
Backloading
Novation Day)
02:00 – 04:00

Day 4

Thursday:
(the Weekly
Backloading
Novation Day)
As soon as
technologically
practicable after
the Morning
Call

(c)

(i)

Irrevocable Weekly Backloading Transactions which have been
removed from the TIW, if any, and/or

(ii) Irrevocable Weekly Backloading Transactions which no longer
meet all the Eligibility Requirements, if any.
Where an Irrevocable Weekly Backloading Transaction is not
pre-registered in a Clearing Member’s House Account Structure in
accordance with this Section 5 of the Procedures, such Irrevocable
Weekly Backloading Transaction shall become a Rejected
Transaction.

Novation of the pre-registered Irrevocable Weekly Backloading
Transactions which have not become Rejected Transactions will be
undertaken by LCH.Clearnet SA.

Daily Backloading Cycle

Pursuant to Section 3.1.2 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, LCH.Clearnet operates the
Daily Backloading Cycle in accordance with the timetable set out below. For the
avoidance of doubt, CDS having either House Trade Legs or Client Trade Legs can be
submitted for clearing through the Daily Backloading Cycle.
PROCESSING SCHEDULE OF THE DAILY
BACKLOADING PROCESS
Time
No.

Day 1

(all references
below are to
Continental
European Time)

On any
Business Day

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

Action

Upon receipt of Original Transaction Data relating to a Daily
Backloading Transaction from an Approved Trade Source System,

8

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

(D):
During the Real
Time Session

D

CDS Clearing Operations

LCH.Clearnet SA will, in the following order, perform:
(i)

the Eligibility Controls, and

(ii)

in respect of Client Backloading Transactions only, the Client
Transaction Checks (i.e. the process to ensure that each
Nominated Clearing Member has consented to the registration
of the relevant Client Trade Leg(s), in the relevant Client Trade
Account(s)).

(i)

If a Daily Backloading Transaction does not satisfy the Eligibility
Controls, or

(ii)

in respect of a Client Backloading Transactions only, if either
Nominated Clearing Member rejects, or fails to respond to, a
Consent Request (as defined in paragraph 5.3(a) below) by
19:30,

By 19:30

the relevant Daily Backloading Transaction will become a Rejected
Transaction and LCH.Clearnet SA will inform the relevant Approved
Trade Source System and each relevant Clearing Member.

D
Until 19:30

A Daily Backloading Transaction, which has successfully passed the
Eligibility Controls and the Client Transaction Checks (if applicable),
can be removed at any time prior to 19:30 from the Daily Backloading
Cycle, provided that each of the relevant Clearing Members agrees
to such removal and sends an email to LCH.Clearnet SA which
specifies the Transaction Data of the Daily Backloading Transaction
which should be removed from the Daily Backloading Cycle.

All Daily Backloading Transactions which:
D
By 19:30

(i)

have successfully passed the Eligibility Controls and Client
Transaction Checks (if applicable), and

(ii)

have not been removed from the relevant Daily Backloading
Cycle by 19:30 by the relevant Clearing Members,

will become Irrevocable Daily Backloading Transactions.

Irrevocable Daily Backloading Transactions will be pre-registered in
the relevant Client Account Structures of each Clearing Member
save:
D+1
Day 2

(provided that it
is a Clearing
Day):
02:00 – 04:00

(i)

Irrevocable Daily Backloading Transactions which have been
removed from the TIW (where LCH.Clearnet SA is able to
ascertain such fact), if any, and/or

(ii) Irrevocable Daily Backloading Transactions which no longer
meet all the Eligibility Requirements, if any.
It is anticipated that LCH.Clearnet SA will be able to ascertain the fact
mentioned in (i) above only in respect of House Trade Legs because
it is unlikely that Clients will authorise DTCC to provide LCH.Clearnet

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

9

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

SA with the details of their entire CDS portfolio.
Where an Irrevocable Daily Backloading Transaction is not
pre-registered in a Clearing Member’s Client Account Structure in
accordance with this Section 5 of the Procedures, such Irrevocable
Daily Backloading Transaction shall become a Rejected Transaction.

D+1
(provided that it
is a Clearing
Day):
As soon as
technologically
practicable
after the
Morning Call

5.3

Novation of the pre-registered Irrevocable Daily Backloading
Transactions which have not become Rejected Transactions shall be
undertaken by LCH.Clearnet SA.

CLEARING OF CLIENT TRADE LEGS
(a)

The Client Transaction Checks

Upon successful completion of the Eligibility Controls of:
(i)

an Intraday Transaction comprising one or more Client Trade Leg(s), or

(ii)

a Client Backloading Transaction,

LCH.Clearnet SA will request the consent (the “Consent Request”) of the Nominated
Clearing Member(s) by carrying out the following process:
(i)
If such Intraday Transaction or Client Backloading Transaction has two Client
Trade Legs and the relevant Clients do not have the same Nominated Clearing
Member: LCH.Clearnet SA will send a Consent Request to each Nominated Clearing
Member.
(ii)
If such Intraday Transaction or Client Backloading Transaction has two Client
Trade Legs and the relevant Clients have the same Nominated Clearing Member,
LCH.Clearnet SA will send two separate Consent Requests, in relation to the relevant
Intraday Transaction or Client Backloading Transaction, to such Nominated Clearing
Member.
(iii) If such Intraday Transaction or Client Backloading Transaction has only one
Client Trade Leg, LCH.Clearnet SA will send (x) a Consent Request to the
Nominated Clearing Member and (y) an automated message to the Clearing Member
holding the House Trade Leg confirming the submission for clearing to LCH.Clearnet
SA of such Intraday Transaction or Client Backloading Transaction.
A Consent Request shall be processed in accordance with either paragraph 5.3(a) or
paragraph 5.3(b).

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

10

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

(b)

CDS Clearing Operations

Intraday Transactions and Client Backloading Transactions – Automatic
Clearing Member take-up process

Each Clearing Member may, in respect of each of its Clients, configure the CDS
Clearing System so that Intraday Transactions and/or Client Backloading
Transactions:
(i)

which are entered into by any such Clients, and

(ii)

in respect of which it is a Nominated Clearing Member,

are deemed to be automatically accepted for clearing upon the sending of the relevant
Consent Request(s) to such Nominated Clearing Member (the “Automatic Take-up
Process”). For the avoidance of doubt, such Nominated Clearing Member shall not be
requested to respond to the relevant Consent Request(s).
(c)

Intraday Transactions and Client Backloading Transactions – Manual Clearing
Member take-up process

For each Client in respect of which no Automatic Take-up Process has been set up by
its Clearing Member:
(i)

LCH.Clearnet SA shall send a Consent Request to such Clearing Member,
acting in its capacity as Nominated Clearing Member, for each Intraday
Transaction or Client Backloading Transaction entered into by such Client; and

(ii)

the relevant Nominated Clearing Member must accept or reject such Consent
Request (the “Manual Take-up Process”). If the relevant Nominated Clearing
Member has not responded to such Consent Request by the End of Real Time
on the relevant Clearing Day, the Nominated Clearing Member will be deemed
to have rejected the Consent Request and the related Intraday Transaction or
Client Backloading Transaction will become a Rejected Transaction.

(d)

Intraday Transactions and Client Backloading Transactions - Notifications

Following the Automatic Take-up Process or the Manual Take-up Process,
LCH.Clearnet SA will notify the relevant Approved Trade Source System and Clearing
Member(s) whether the relevant Intraday Transaction or Client Backloading
Transaction has been accepted for clearing.
(e)

Indirect clearing

When a CCM Individual Segregated Account Client providing indirect clearing services
to CCM Indirect Clients submits a Client Trade Leg of a CDS for the account of a CCM
Indirect Client for clearing by LCH.Clearnet SA via an Approved Trade Source System,
that CCM Individual Segregated Account Client will indicate the specific trading code
allowing for the proper identification of Client Trade Legs submitted for all its CCM
Indirect Clients. LCH.Clearnet SA will then use that specific trading code, together with
the Original Transaction Data, received from the Approved Trade Source System to
determine whether such Client Trade Leg shall be registered in the relevant CCM
Indirect Client Segregated Account Structure or CCM Direct Client Segregated
Account Structure.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

11

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

(f)

CDS Clearing Operations

Clients’ branches

Each Client of a Clearing Member may opt for multi-branch management allowing such
Client to allocate Client Cleared Transactions registered in the relevant Client Trade
Account to one of its branches through which such Client operates. For this purpose,
the Client will provide a specific code identifying its branch for a Client Trade Leg
submitted for clearing to LCH.Clearnet SA by the relevant ATSS Participant.
The Clearing Member may update the allocation of Client Cleared Transactions
registered in a Client Trade Account of such Client between its branches, through
LCH.Clearnet Portal, Where each branch of a Client is identified in the TIW with a
specific code, LCH.Clearnet SA will reflect each reallocation in the records of the TIW
on its own behalf and on behalf of the relevant Clearing Member.
For the avoidance of doubt, identification per branch of a Client only affects Client
Cleared Transactions held in the Client Trade Account and has no effect on the net
position held in the corresponding Client Margin Account. Furthermore, identification
per branch of a Client has no effect on the risk calculation which is based on the net
position held in the Client Margin Account.
5.4

CDS CLEARING MEMBER REPORTING
(a)

Means of access and reporting mechanisms

LCH.Clearnet SA will ensure that all CDS Clearing System reports and files are
accessible by Clearing Members through any means of access or reporting
mechanism specified in a Clearing Notice.
(b)

Clearlink gateway

Messages relating to the acceptance or rejection of Consent Requests, the novation
and registration of Original Transactions and the various reports related to Cleared
Transactions will be sent and received by LCH.Clearnet SA, the Clearing Members,
the Approved Trade Source Systems using the ClearLink gateway.
5.5

TRADE COMPRESSION
LCH.Clearnet SA will provide trade compression services to Clearing Members on an
ad hoc and on an automatic basis to allow Clearing Members to reduce the number of
Cleared Transactions they hold in their House Trade Account and in each of their
Client Trade Accounts. This allows, among other things, Clearing Members to
reduce the administration associated with their portfolio of Cleared Transactions. For
the avoidance of doubt, LCH.Clearnet SA will provide trade compression to Clearing
Members on both an ad hoc and automatic basis on any Clearing Day.
Each Clearing Member may elect to compress any or all of its Cleared Transactions
in any of its Trade Accounts provided that:
(i)

such Cleared Transactions are of the same CDS Type;

(ii)
the Initial Payment Amounts relating to such Cleared Transactions have been
settled; and
(iii) where a Client has opted for multi-branch management of the corresponding
Client Trade Account of its Clearing Member, automatic trade compression will be
LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

12

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

processed at the level of the branches within the same Client Trade Account, subject
to the election by a Clearing Member to exclude some of the branches from this
process as set in Paragraph 5.5 (b) below.
The Fixed Rate Payer Calculation Amount for the new Cleared Transaction will be
the absolute value of the sum of Fixed Rate Payer Calculation Amounts for Cleared
Transactions where the Clearing Member is the CDS Buyer less the sum of Fixed
Rate Payer Calculation Amounts for Cleared Transactions where the Clearing
Member is the CDS Seller.
If the sum of Fixed Rate Payer Calculation Amounts for Cleared Transactions where
the Clearing Member is the CDS Buyer is greater than the sum of Fixed Rate Payer
Calculation Amounts for Cleared Transactions where the Clearing Member is the
CDS Seller then the Clearing Member will be the CDS Buyer on the resultant Cleared
Transaction. If the opposite is true then the Clearing Member will be the CDS Seller
on the resultant Cleared Transaction.
If the sum of Fixed Rate Payer Calculation Amounts for Cleared Transactions where
the Clearing Member is the CDS Buyer is equal to the sum of Fixed Rate Payer
Calculation Amounts for Cleared Transactions where the Clearing Member is the
CDS Seller then no resultant trade is booked.
For the avoidance of doubt, compression only affects Cleared Transactions held in
the Trade Account and has no effect on the net position held in the Margin Account.
Furthermore, compression has no effect on the risk calculation which is based on the
net position held in the Margin Account.
(a)

Ad-hoc compression

A Clearing Member may request ad-hoc compression in accordance with Title III,
Chapter 3 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book by up-loading an Ad-Hoc Compression
Order File. The Ad-Hoc Compression Order File lists the Cleared Transactions that
are to be compressed and also defines the resulting Cleared Transaction. The
Ad-Hoc Compression Order File should be up-loaded by the Clearing Member on any
means of access specified in a Clearing Notice.
Clearing Members may only request ad-hoc compression in relation to Index Cleared
Transactions and/or Single Name Cleared Transactions which have already been
registered in the TIW, in accordance with Article 3.3.1.1(i) of the CDS Clearing Rule
Book.
The Ad-Hoc Compression Order File must be received by LCH.Clearnet SA on any
Clearing Day through any means of access specified in a Clearing Notice between
09.15 CET and 19.00 CET in order for the request to be processed and the related
Cleared Transactions to be compressed on that same day (day “D”). LCH.Clearnet
SA will include the results of the compression in the Cleared Trades Report and
Compression Results File in respect of such Clearing Member. LCH.Clearnet SA will
publish such Cleared Trades Report and Compression Results File via any reporting
mechanism specified in a Clearing Notice as soon as practicable on the same
Clearing Day as such Clearing Member's request for compression and following the
implementation of such Clearing Member's request for compression. Where
LCH.Clearnet SA receives such request after 19:00 CET, such request shall be
deemed to not have been up-loaded and shall be of no effect.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

13

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

As a contingency solution in case of disruption of any means of access or reporting
mechanism specified in a Clearing Notice, the Clearing Member should send the
request to the Operations Department by email (cdsclear.ops@lchclearnet.com) by
17:00 CET. Where LCH.Clearnet SA receives such contingency request by 17:00
CET the request will be processed and the related Cleared Transactions will be
compressed on the same day (day "D"). Where LCH.Clearnet SA receives such
contingency request after 17:00 CET, LCH.Clearnet SA may, in its sole discretion,
process such request and compress the related Cleared Transactions on the same
day (day "D") provided that if LCH.Clearnet SA does not, in its sole discretion,
process such a request and compress the related Cleared Transactions on the same
day, LCH.Clearnet SA will process such request and the related Cleared Transaction
will be compressed on the next Clearing Day (day "D+1") unless the relevant Clearing
Member instructs the Operations Department to withdraw such request.
A Clearing Member may request ad hoc compression in accordance with Title III,
Chapter 3 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book and this paragraph 5.5(a) in respect of
Cleared Transactions notwithstanding that such Clearing Member has also
requested automatic compression in accordance with Title III, Chapter 3 of the CDS
Clearing Rule Book and paragraph 5.5(b) below.
(b)

Automatic Compression

Automatic Compression as described under this paragraph 5.5(b) can be set up by a
Clearing Member in respect of:
(i)

Cleared Transactions which have been novated as part of the Daily Backloading
Cycle and/or Weekly Backloading Cycle but have not been yet registered in the
TIW; such Cleared Transactions may be compressed either with:(x) other
Cleared Transactions which have been novated as part of the same Daily
Backloading Cycle or Weekly Backloading Cycle, as applicable, and/or (y) other
Cleared Transactions which have been already registered in the TIW (each a
“Backloading Compression”); and/or

(ii)

Cleared Transactions which are already registered in the TIW.

A Clearing Member may configure the CDS Clearing System to perform automatic
compression in respect of any Trade Account in accordance with Title III, Chapter 3
of the CDS Clearing Rule Book. Such a configuration allows the relevant Clearing
Member to make the following elections:
(i)
whether the automatic trade compression is processed at the level of (x) the
relevant Trade Account or (y) different desks within the same Trade Account,
(ii)
in respect of an automatic compression (other than a Backloading
Compression), whether it shall occur on a daily or weekly basis, and
(iii) whether a list of desks or in respect of Client Trade Accounts, a list of branches
of Clients, shall be excluded for the purposes of automatic trade compression.
A Clearing Member may request LCH.Clearnet SA to change its previous election in
respect of automatic compression through submitting a request via any means of
access specified in a Clearing Notice at any time. Where LCH.Clearnet SA receives
such a request by 19:00 CET via any means of access specified in a Clearing Notice
on a Clearing Day (day "D"), the election will be effective from and including the
following Clearing Day (day "D+1") unless and until a further request is made. Where
LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

14

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

LCH.Clearnet SA receives a request after 19:00 CET via any means of access
specified in a Clearing Notice, such request will be effective from and including the
second following Clearing Day (day "D+2") unless and until a further request is made.
Compression (other than a Backloading Compression) on a daily basis is performed
on each Clearing Day as part of the morning batch process before 09.15 CET and
after the registration in TIW has occurred.
Compression (other than a Backloading Compression) on a weekly basis is
performed as part of the morning batch process before 09.15 CET on Wednesdays
(or, if such Wednesday is not a Clearing Day, the next following Wednesday that is a
Clearing Day) and after the registration in TIW has occurred.
Backloading Compression is performed as part of the Daily and/or Weekly
Backloading Cycle and in any case before the registration in TIW has occurred.
(c)

Restructuring Credit Event

Upon the occurrence of a Restructuring Credit Event relating to a Single Name
Cleared Transaction, LCH.Clearnet SA will compress such Single Name Cleared
Transaction resulting in a single position for a Trade Account, on the day determined
by the industry for such purposes. If no automatic compression rules have been
specified, then compression will be made per desk in respect of each Trade Account.
(d)

Registration of Single Names Cleared Transaction

Single Name Cleared Transactions resulting from any compression as described
under this paragraph 5.5 will be registered in the Clearing System under the
CDSClear Preferred Reference Obligation as defined under Section 4 of the
Procedures.
5.6

PRE-DEFAULT PORTABILITY
In certain circumstances, LCH.Clearnet SA will transfer Client Cleared Transactions
from a Carrying Clearing Member to a Receiving Clearing Member, pursuant to Title
V Chapter 3 and Title VI Chapter 3 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book. Any actions
required to be taken by a Clearing Member or LCH.Clearnet SA, in order to effect
such transfer of Client Cleared Transactions, shall be effected in accordance with the
timetable set out in paragraph 5.6 (d) of these Procedures. In the event that the
relevant timing and notice requirements are not complied with, unless agreed
otherwise between LCH.Clearnet SA and the relevant Clearing Members, the
relevant transfer shall not take effect.
(a)

Partial Transfers

Where a Receiving Clearing Member wishes, pursuant to:
(i)

Article 5.3.3.1 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, to receive a transfer of:

(x)
a portion of the portfolio of Client Cleared Transactions registered in the CCM
Direct Segregated Account Structure of a CCM Individual Segregated Account
Client; and/or

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

15

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

(y)
a portion of the portfolio of the Client Cleared Transactions registered in the
CCM Indirect Client Segregated Account Structure of that CCM Individual
Segregated Account Client
held with a Carrying Clearing Member;
(ii)
Article 5.3.3.2 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, to receive a transfer of some but
not all of the Client Cleared Transactions held with a Carrying Clearing Member for
an CCM Net Omnibus Client Set;
(iii) Article 5.3.3.3 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, to receive a transfer of some but
not all of the Client Cleared Transactions held with a Carrying Clearing Member for a
CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Client Set;
(iii) Article 5.3.3.4 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, to receive a transfer of a portion
of the portfolio of Client Cleared Transactions registered in the CCM Gross Omnibus
Single Sub-Account Structure of a CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client
held with a Carrying Clearing Member; or
(iv) Article 6.3.3.1 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, to receive a portion of the Client
Cleared Transactions registered in the FCM Client Trade Account of an FCM Client;
it shall provide LCH.Clearnet SA with a Client Partial Transfer Form (see Appendix 1),
signed by or on behalf of the relevant Client(s). Such form shall list all of the Client
Cleared Transactions that are to be transferred to it pursuant to these Procedures.
Following receipt of a Client Partial Transfer Form, LCH.Clearnet SA shall notify the
Carrying Clearing Member that a request has been received to transfer Client
Cleared Transactions. In the event that any of the conditions set forth in Article
5.3.3.1, Article 5.3.3.2, Article 5.3.3.3, Article 5.3.3.4 or 6.3.3.1, as applicable, of the
CDS Clearing Rule Book are not satisfied, including where the Carrying Clearing
Member notifies LCH.Clearnet SA that certain of the conditions have not been
satisfied, using the Carrying Member Response Form (see Appendix 3),
LCH.Clearnet SA shall not proceed with the transfer of the Client Cleared
Transactions and shall promptly notify the Receiving Clearing Member that the
transfer will not proceed.
If the Receiving Clearing Member wishes to proceed with such transfer, it shall be
required to submit a new Client Partial Transfer Form in accordance with these
Procedures.
(b)

Full Transfer

Where a Receiving Clearing Member wishes, pursuant to:
(i)
Article 5.3.2.1 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, to receive a transfer of the entire
portfolio (and not less than an entire portfolio) of:
(x) the Client Cleared Transactions registered in the CCM Direct Segregated
Account Structure of a CCM Individual Segregated Account Client Individual
Segregated Account Client; and/or
(y)
Client Cleared Transactions registered in the CCM Indirect Client Segregated
Account Structure of that CCM Individual Segregated Account Client registered in the
CCM Client Trade Account(s) of the relevant CCM Individual Segregated Account
Structure
LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

16

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

of a Carrying Clearing Member;
(ii)
Article 5.3.2.2 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, to receive a transfer of all of the
Client Cleared Transactions registered in the CCM Client Trade Accounts of the CCM
Net Omnibus Segregated Account Clients within a CCM Net Omnibus Client Set of a
Carrying Clearing Member;
(iii) Article 5.3.2.3 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, to receive a transfer of all of the
Client Cleared Transactions registered in the CCM Client Trade Accounts of CCM
Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Clients within a CCM Gross Omnibus Multi
Sub-Account Client Set of a Carrying Clearing Member;
(iv) Article 5.3.2.4 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, to receive the entire portfolio (and
not less than an entire portfolio) of the Client Cleared Transactions registered in the
CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Structure of a CCM Gross Omnibus Single
Sub-Account Client of a Carrying Clearing Member; or
(v)
Article 6.3.2.1 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, to receive a transfer of all the
Client Cleared Transactions registered in the FCM Client Trade Account of an FCM
Client;
such Receiving Clearing Member shall provide LCH.Clearnet SA with a Client Full
Transfer Form (see Appendix 2), in respect of (and signed by or on behalf of) each
Client on behalf of whom the relevant transfer would be made. Each such form shall
confirm that all Client Cleared Transactions registered in the Client Trade Account(s)
shall be transferred pursuant to these Procedures.
Where a Receiving Clearing Member submits a Client Full Transfer Form, it must
confirm whether or not the Client(s) also wishes to transfer Client Assets. Following
receipt of a Client Full Transfer Form, LCH.Clearnet SA shall notify the Carrying
Clearing Member that a request has been received to transfer Client Cleared
Transactions.
In the event that any of the conditions set forth in Article 5.3.2.1, Article 5.3.2.2, Article
5.3.2.3, Article 5.3.2.4 or Article 6.3.2.1, as applicable, of the CDS Clearing Rule
Book are not satisfied, including where the Carrying Clearing Member notifies
LCH.Clearnet SA that certain conditions have not been satisfied, using the Carrying
Member Response Form (see Appendix 3), LCH.Clearnet SA shall not proceed with
the transfer of the Client Cleared Transactions or the transfer of Client Assets (where
applicable) and shall promptly notify the Receiving Clearing Member that the transfer
will not proceed.
If the Receiving Clearing Member wishes to proceed with such transfer or any other
transfer of the Client Cleared Transactions, it shall be required to submit a new Client
Full Transfer Form or a new Client Partial Transfer Form (see Appendix 1) in
accordance with these Procedures.
Once a Carrying Clearing Member has been informed that a Client Full Transfer
Form has been received, the Carrying Clearing Member shall not be permitted to
submit additional Original Transactions, having Client Trade Leg(s) attributable to the
relevant Client(s), for clearing. Such restriction will apply for the period commencing
at the End of Real Time on the Business Day on which the relevant Clearing Member
receives such notice from LCH.Clearnet SA and ending at the time at which the
relevant transfer (including the transfer of the relevant Client Assets, if applicable) is

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

17

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

actually effected, fails or is rejected in accordance with Section 5.3.2 or Section 6.3.2,
as applicable, of the CDS Clearing Rule Book and these Procedures.
(c)

Transfer of Client Assets

Where a Receiving Clearing Member notifies LCH.Clearnet SA that a Client wishes
to transfer Client Assets from the Carrying Clearing Member to the Receiving
Clearing Member, LCH.Clearnet SA shall notify the Carrying Clearing Member of
such request.
With respect to the transfer of a CCM Individual Segregated Account Client, in
accordance with Article 5.3.2.1, or a CCM Omnibus Client Set, in accordance with
Article 5.3.2.2 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, LCH.Clearnet SA will provide details
of the relevant Client Assets to the Receiving Clearing Member and give the
Receiving Clearing Member opportunity to reject a transfer of some or all of the Client
Assets in accordance with the timetable below.
With respect to the transfer of a CCM Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Client Set,
in accordance with Article 5.3.2.3, a CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client,
in accordance with Article 5.3.2.4, or an FCM Client, in accordance with Article
6.3.2.1, of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, the Carrying Clearing Member shall confirm
to LCH.Clearnet SA, using the Carrying Member Response Form (see Appendix 3)
which Client Assets are attributable to the CCM Gross Omnibus Gross Multi
Sub-Account Client Set, CCM Gross Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client or FCM
Client and the Client Cleared Transactions. In the event that the Carrying Clearing
Member fails to do so in accordance with the timetable below, LCH.Clearnet SA shall
determine (in its sole discretion) the Client Assets that are to be transferred from the
Carrying Clearing Member’s relevant CCM Client Collateral Account in the case of a
CCM Gross Omnibus Gross Multi Sub-Account Client Set or a CCM Gross Omnibus
Single Sub-Account Client and FCM Client Financial Account in the case of an FCM
Client. LCH.Clearnet SA shall notify the Carrying Clearing Member and the Receiving
Clearing Member of the Client Assets that will be transferred in accordance with the
timetable below. Following receipt of such notification by LCH.Clearnet SA, the
Receiving Clearing Member may elect to reject the transfer of some or all of the
relevant Client Assets in accordance with Article 5.3.4.2 or Article 6.3.4.2 of the CDS
Clearing Rule Book.
In the event that any of the conditions set forth in Article 5.3.2.1, Article 5.3.2.2, Article
5.3.2.3, Article 5.3.2.4 or Article 6.3.2.1 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, as applicable,
are not satisfied, including where the Carrying Clearing Member notifies
LCH.Clearnet SA that certain conditions have not been satisfied using the Carrying
Member Response Form (see Appendix 3), such that the Client Cleared
Transactions will not be transferred, LCH.Clearnet SA shall not proceed with the
transfer of the relevant Client Assets.
In the event that LCH.Clearnet SA transfers Client Assets pursuant to these
Procedures and the CDS Clearing Rule Book, it will also transfer the aggregate
Variation Margin and next day settlement coupons and fees associated with the
transferring Client Cleared Transactions.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

18

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

(d)
No.

CDS Clearing Operations

Timetable for Client Transfers

Time

Partial Transfer

Full Transfer (with
Collateral)

Full Transfer
(without Collateral)

(all references below are to
Continental European
Time)

1

Day 0: 17:00

Deadline for receipt from
Receiving Clearing
Member of Client Partial
Transfer Form.

Deadline for receipt
from Receiving
Clearing Member of
Client Full Transfer
Form and confirmation
that the Client(s) wish
Client Assets to be
transferred.

Deadline for receipt
from Receiving
Clearing Member of
Client Full Transfer
Form.

2

Day 0: 19:00

Deadline for
LCH.Clearnet SA to
notify Carrying Clearing
Member of receipt by
LCH.Clearnet SA of
Client Partial Transfer
Form.

Deadline for
LCH.Clearnet SA to
notify Carrying
Clearing Member of
receipt by
LCH.Clearnet SA of
Client Full Transfer
Form.

Deadline for
LCH.Clearnet SA to
notify Carrying
Clearing Member of
receipt by
LCH.Clearnet SA of
Client Full Transfer
Form.

3

Day 1: 10:00

Deadline for: (i)
notification by
LCH.Clearnet SA to the
Carrying Clearing
Member and the
Receiving Clearing
Member that
LCH.Clearnet SA
intends to transfer the
Client Cleared
Transactions pursuant to
a request from the
Receiving Clearing
Member; and (ii)
provision by
LCH.Clearnet SA of
details to the Carrying
Clearing Member and
the Receiving Clearing
Member of the Client
Cleared Transactions to
be transferred.

Deadline for: (i)
notification by
LCH.Clearnet SA to
the Carrying Clearing
Member and the
Receiving Clearing
Member that
LCH.Clearnet SA
intends to transfer the
Client Cleared
Transactions pursuant
to a request from the
Receiving Clearing
Member; and (ii)
provision of details to
the Carrying Clearing
Member and the
Receiving Clearing
Member of the Client
Cleared Transactions
to be transferred.

Deadline for: (i)
notification by
LCH.Clearnet SA to
the Carrying Clearing
Member and the
Receiving Clearing
Member that
LCH.Clearnet SA
intends to transfer the
Client Cleared
Transactions
pursuant to a request
from the Receiving
Clearing Member;
and (ii) provision of
details to the
Carrying Clearing
Member and the
Receiving Clearing
Member of the Client
Cleared Transactions
to be transferred.

4

Day 2: 12:00

Deadline for notification
(if any) from Carrying
Clearing Member that it
is rejecting the transfer
(in accordance with
Article 5.3.3.1(vi), Article
5.3.3.2(v) 5.3.3.3(v) or
Article 5.3.3.4(v) of the
CDS Clearing Rule
Book).

Deadline for
notification (if any) from
Carrying Clearing
Member that it is
rejecting the transfer
(in accordance with
Article 5.3.2.1(vii),
Article 5.3.2.2(vi),
Article 5.3.2.3(vi) or
Article 5.3.2.4(vi) of the
CDS Clearing Rule
Book (as applicable)).

Deadline for
notification (if any)
from Carrying
Clearing Member that
it is rejecting the
transfer (in
accordance with
Article 5.3.2.1(vii),
5.3.2.2(vi) Article
5.3.2.3(vi) or Article
5.3.2.4(vi) of the CDS
Clearing Rule Book
(as applicable)).

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

19

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

No.

Time

CDS Clearing Operations

Partial Transfer

Full Transfer (with
Collateral)

Full Transfer
(without Collateral)

N/A

Deadline for
confirmation from
Carrying Clearing
Member of the Client
Assets which are
available to be
transferred to the
Receiving Clearing
Member.

N/A

(all references below are to
Continental European
Time)

5

Day 2: 12:00 (For
transfer of FCM
Clients and CCM

Gross Omnibus
Segregated
Account Clients
only)

6

Day 2: 12:00 to 14:00

N/A

LCH.Clearnet SA
notifies the Receiving
Clearing Member of
the Client Assets that
would be transferred.

N/A

7

Day 2: 17:00

Deadline for receipt by
LCH.Clearnet SA of
consent to transfer of the
Client Cleared
Transactions from the
Receiving Clearing
Member.

Deadline for receipt by
LCH.Clearnet SA of
consent to transfer of
the Client Cleared
Transactions and
notification of the
rejection (if applicable)
of some or all of the
relevant Client Assets
from the Receiving
Clearing Member.

Deadline for receipt
by LCH.Clearnet SA
of consent to transfer
of the Client Cleared
Transactions from
the Receiving
Clearing Member.

8

Day 2: By 24:00

N/A

Deadline for
LCH.Clearnet SA to
instruct Euroclear to
transfer some or all of
the relevant Client
Assets from the Client
Pledged Securities
Account of the
Carrying Clearing
Member (in
accordance with
Section 3 of the
Procedures).

N/A

9

Day 3: 08:00

Target deadline for
notification by
LCH.Clearnet SA to the
Carrying Clearing
Member and/or the
Receiving Clearing
Member of whether an
increased Margin
Requirement or
Variation Margin
Requirement is required
to be satisfied effect the
transfer.

Target deadline for
notification by
LCH.Clearnet SA to
the Receiving Clearing
Member of whether an
increased Margin
Requirement or
Variation Margin
Requirement is
required to be satisfied
to effect the transfer.

Target deadline for
notification by
LCH.Clearnet SA to
the Receiving
Clearing Member of
whether an increased
Margin Requirement
or Variation Margin
Requirement is
required to be
satisfied to effect the
transfer.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

20

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

No.

Time

CDS Clearing Operations

Partial Transfer

Full Transfer (with
Collateral)

Full Transfer
(without Collateral)

The Carrying Clearing
Member and/or the
Receiving Clearing
Member must satisfy the
Margin Requirements
during the Morning Call
to effect the transfer.

The Receiving
Clearing Member must
satisfy the Margin
Requirements during
the Morning Call to
effect the transfer.

The Receiving
Clearing Member
must satisfy the
Margin Requirements
during the Morning
Call to effect the
transfer.

LCH.Clearnet SA
transfers the Client
Cleared Transactions to
the Receiving Clearing
Member.

LCH.Clearnet SA
transfers the Client
Cleared Transactions
and (if applicable)
some or all of the Client
Assets to the
Receiving Clearing
Member.

LCH.Clearnet SA
transfers the Client
Cleared Transactions
to the Receiving
Clearing Member.

(all references below are to
Continental European
Time)

10

Day 3: 08:30 - 09:00
Or in the case of an
FCM Clearing
Member (for the
purposes of Cash
Payments): 09.00 –
09.05

11

Day 3: 09:05

5.7

EARLY TERMINATION
A transfer pursuant to Article 5.4.1.1, Article 5.4.1.2 or Article 5.4.1.3 of the CDS
Clearing Rule Book will be subject to the receipt by LCH.Clearnet SA of the following:
(i)

a copy of the notice from the relevant CCM to the relevant CCM Client or from
the relevant CCM Client to the relevant CCM designating the relevant early
termination date or, if such early termination date has occurred automatically,
evidence of the relevant event of default or termination event having occurred;
and

(ii)

a copy of a notice served by the relevant CCM on the relevant CCM Client
alerting that CCM Client of its intention to request LCH.Clearnet SA to transfer
the relevant Client Cleared Transactions.

Subject to the receipt of the documents listed in paragraphs 5.7 (i) to (ii) above,
LCH.Clearnet SA will arrange a transfer of the relevant Client Cleared Transactions as
soon as reasonably practicable (and usually within 24 hours of receipt of the
documents).
5.8

UPDATING THE TRADE INFORMATION WAREHOUSE
(a)

Process

LCH.Clearnet SA will ensure that all Cleared Transactions are stored in the CDS
Clearing System and replicated in the TIW.
There are two operations involved in the TIW update process, one or both of which
will be relevant depending on the event leading to the update:


the termination of old trades; and



the creation of new trades.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

21

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

The following events will require trades in the TIW to be updated by LCH.Clearnet
SA:














Novation of a Backloading Transaction:
o

Termination of the Backloading Transaction where the upfront amount
has been paid;

o

Exit of the Backloading Transaction where the upfront amount has not
been paid; and

o

Creation of Cleared Transactions

Novation of an Intraday Transaction:
o

Termination of the Intraday Transaction, if applicable

o

Creation of Cleared Transactions

Reallocation of a Client Cleared Transaction within a Client Trade Account
between branches
o

Termination of the relevant Client Cleared Transaction allocated to the
current branch

o

Creation of the Client Cleared Transaction resulting from the
reallocation to another branch

Trade Compression:
o

Termination of Cleared Transactions to be compressed, if applicable

o

Creation of compressed Cleared Transactions, if applicable

Creation of Restructuring Cleared Transactions
o

Termination, if necessary, of Initial Single Name Cleared Transactions

o

Creation of the Restructuring Cleared Transactions

Re-couponing of the Cleared Transactions
o

Termination of Cleared Transactions affected by the re-couponing

o

Creation of Cleared Transactions resulting from the re-couponing

Completion of Physical Settlement following a Credit Event
o

Termination of Cleared Transactions

LCH.Clearnet SA will make all relevant registrations in a timely fashion subject to
receiving valid data from the relevant Clearing Members and DTCC being active and
ensure that the registration is accurate and correct based on the information available
to it.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

22

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

In respect of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) below, neither LCH.Clearnet SA nor a
Clearing Member shall:
(i)

actively do anything that alters the trade confirmation or will prevent DTCC
correctly calculating payments; or

(ii)

make any changes to trades in the TIW which prevent the automated DTCC
process being correctly executed on that trade unless authorised by
LCH.Clearnet SA. For the avoidance of doubt, the failure by a Clearing
Member to match a trade in the TIW will not affect the validity and enforceability
of the Cleared Transactions registered within the CDS Clearing System and
the related obligations of the relevant Clearing Member.

(b)

Cleared Transactions

In accordance with Article 2.2.1.1 (xx)(b) and Article 3.1.10.2 of the CDS Clearing Rule
Book each Clearing Member authorises LCH.Clearnet SA to submit Cleared
Transactions created in respect of Intraday Transactions to the TIW on the Clearing
Member's behalf.
For all Cleared Transactions, LCH.Clearnet SA will book both trade legs in the TIW.
LCH.Clearnet SA will make all relevant registrations in a timely fashion subject to
receiving valid data from the relevant Clearing Members and DTCC being active and
ensure that the registration is accurate and correct based on the information available
to it.
After a Cleared Transaction is booked in the TIW, the Clearing Member which is a
party to such Cleared Transaction may modify the Trade Reference Identifier or
workflow data (to the exclusion, for the avoidance of doubt, of any Transaction Data)
registered in the TIW. LCH.Clearnet SA will ensure its own records are consistent with
such modifications as soon as it receives the relevant TIW notification of such
modifications.
(c)

Deemed Submission Authority

A Clearing Member is deemed to have authorised LCH.Clearnet SA to book a trade on
behalf of the Clearing Member in accordance with Section 3.1.10 of the CDS Clearing
Rule Book and LCH.Clearnet SA will make all relevant registrations in a timely fashion,
subject to receiving valid data from the relevant Clearing Members and DTCC being
active, and ensure that the registration is accurate and correct based on the
information available to it.
(d)

TRIRename function

After a Clearing Member modifies its Trade Reference Identifier in respect of a Cleared
Transaction in the TIW, the TRIRename function will allow the CDS Clearing System to
be automatically updated with the new Trade Reference Identifier.
5.9

REGISTRATION OF SINGLE NAME CLEARED TRANSACTIONS
Single Name Cleared Transactions will be registered in the Clearing System under the
CDSClear Preferred Reference Obligation as defined under Section 4 of the
Procedures.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

23

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

5.10

CDS Clearing Operations

DIFFERENCES IN RECORDS
Any differences noticed by Clearing Members between the record held by the CDS
Clearing System and the TIW should be reported to LCH.Clearnet SA as soon as
reasonably practicable.
To the extent that the terms of a Cleared Transaction either in the TIW or in the
relevant report provided to the Clearing Member do not reflect, subject to and in
accordance with the provisions of the CDS Clearing Rules and the CDS Clearing
Supplement Documents, the Original Transaction that was submitted or the terms of
the Restructuring Cleared Transaction, LCH.Clearnet SA will amend the records
and/or reissue the relevant report, as applicable, to correct the differences as
appropriate, to the extent it is authorised to do so.

5.11

NOTIFICATION OF REGISTRATION
Following registration of the Cleared Transactions reflecting an Original Transaction,
the CDS Clearing System will publish the confirmation of novation via the Cleared
Trade Report available through any reporting mechanism specified in a Clearing
Notice. Details of Cleared Transactions are also available through any reporting
mechanism specified in a Clearing Notice. Confirmation of novation will also be
reported through the relevant Approved Trade Source System, if it has such
functionality.

5.12

HEDGING TRANSACTIONS
LCH.Clearnet SA may enter into a CDS with a Clearing Member for hedging purposes
(a "Hedging Transaction") pursuant to Clause 2.1.1 of the CDS Default Management
Process. A Hedging Transaction will be executed as an OTC transaction by a Clearing
Member on day D and will be cleared in the same manner as a Daily Backloading
Transaction on D+1 save that it will be between LCH.Clearnet SA and a Clearing
Member.

5.13

REVERSING OF TRADES
Where Clearing Members identify an Original Transaction that they have both cleared
in error they may reverse the transaction by submitting an equal but opposite
transaction via an Approved Trade Source System to LCH.Clearnet SA for clearing
and then using compression pursuant to paragraph 5.5 of these Procedures. In such
instances, for the avoidance of doubt the Clearing Members shall be solely responsible
for entering into any bilateral transaction necessary to reverse the Original Transaction
that was cleared in error.

5.14

MAXIMUM NOTIONAL AMOUNT
[This section is not used.]

5.15

RECOUPONING
In accordance with the CDS Clearing Supplement, LCH.Clearnet SA may, with the
prior consent of all relevant Clearing Members, perform a re-couponing on any
Restructuring Cleared Transaction (or portion thereof) in respect of which a valid Credit
Event Notice is not delivered during the relevant CEN Triggering Period if the Fixed
Rate of such Restructuring Cleared Transaction is not an Eligible Fixed Rate.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

24

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

In the case of a re-couponing, the Restructuring Cleared Transaction will be terminated
and replaced by two new Cleared Transactions: the “First Resulting Transaction” and
the “Second Resulting Transaction”.
The terms of the resulting Cleared Transactions will be identical to those of the
Restructuring Cleared Transaction except that:
the Fixed Rate applicable for the First Resulting Transaction (“C1”) will be the highest
Eligible Fixed Rate that is inferior to the Fixed Rate of the Restructuring Cleared
Transaction (“C”);
the Fixed Rate applicable for the Second Resulting Transaction (“C2”) will be the
lowest Eligible Fixed Rate that is superior to the Fixed Rate of the Restructuring
Cleared Transaction (“C”);
The Floating Rate Payer Calculation Amount of the First Resulting Transaction (“N1”)
will be calculated as per below:

Where N is the Floating Rate Payer Calculation Amount of the Restructuring Cleared
Transaction.
The Floating Rate Payer Calculation Amount of the Second Resulting Transaction
(“N2”) will be calculated as per below:

Where N is the Floating Rate Payer Calculation Amount of the Restructuring Cleared
Transaction.
The Trade Date for the First Resulting Transaction and the Second Resulting
Transaction will be the date on which the re-couponing is performed;
The Transaction Type for the First Resulting Transaction and the Second Resulting
Transaction will be Standard European Corporate.
Single Name Cleared Transactions resulting from a re-couponing will be registered in
the Clearing System under the CDSClear Preferred Reference Obligation as defined
under Section 4 of the Procedures.
5.16

REPORTS
The reports set out at paragraph 5.16(a)-(e) will be made available by LCH.Clearnet SA
to Clearing Members on each Business Day at the times specified in paragraph
5.16(a)-(e).
The reports set out at paragraph 5.16(f) will be made available by LCH.Clearnet SA to
Clearing Members on a monthly basis, on the dates and at the times specified in
Section 5.16(f).
The reports set out at paragraph 5.16 (g) and (h) will be made available by
LCH.Clearnet SA to Clearing Members on an ad hoc basis.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

25

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

(a)

Backloading Transaction Reports

(i)

Trade management reports
(A)

Clearing Eligibility Report
“Clearing Eligibility Report " means the report described in this
paragraph.
Description: sets out:
•

the Gold Records received overnight by LCH.Clearnet SA from
DTCC;

•

details of the Gold Records which have successfully passed
and those which have failed the Eligibility Controls performed
pursuant to Article 3.1.1.2 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book.

Timing: published by LCH.Clearnet SA by 09:30 CET on each Business
Day.
For the avoidance of doubt, on a day that is a Business Day but not a
Clearing Day, or on a day that is a Clearing Day on which there is no
Real Time Session, the relevant Clearing Eligibility Report will be
published.
(B)

DTCC Matching and Eligibility Report
"DTCC Matching and Eligibility Report" means the report described in
this paragraph.
Description: sets out:
•

the Gold Records of the Eligible Weekly Backloading
Transactions and Irrevocable Weekly Backloading Transactions
which have not been removed from the TIW; and

•

the Gold Records of the Eligible Weekly Backloading
Transactions and Irrevocable Weekly Backloading Transactions
which have been removed from the TIW.

Timing: published by LCH.Clearnet SA between 02:00 and 04:00 CET
on each Business Day.
For the avoidance of doubt, on a day that is a Business Day but not a
Clearing Day, or on a day that is a Clearing Day on which there is no
Real Time Session, the relevant DTCC Matching and Eligibility Report
will be published.
(C)

Simulation DTCC Matching and Eligibility Report
"Simulation DTCC Matching and Eligibility Report" means the report
described in this paragraph.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

26

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

Description: sets out:
•

the Gold Records of the Eligible Weekly Backloading
Transactions or Irrevocable Weekly Backloading Transactions
(as applicable) which have not been removed from the TIW; and

•

the Gold Records of the Eligible Weekly Backloading
Transactions or Irrevocable Weekly Backloading Transactions
(as applicable) which have been removed from the TIW.

Timing: published by LCH.Clearnet SA between 02.00 CET and 04.00
CET on each Business Day.
For the avoidance of doubt, on a day that is a Business Day but not a Clearing
Day, or on a day that is a Clearing Day on which there is no Real Time Session,
the relevant Simulation DTCC Matching and Eligibility Report will be published.
(D)

Simulation Margin Requirements Result File
Description: sets out the detailed components of the estimated
calculation relating to the Margin Requirements that would be required
to be posted if the relevant Eligible Weekly Backloading Transactions or
Irrevocable Weekly Backloading Transactions (as applicable) were
registered as Cleared Transactions in the Clearing Member’s House
Account Structure at the time of the estimate.
Timing: published by LCH.Clearnet SA between 09.15 CET and 09.30
CET on each Business Day.
For the avoidance of doubt, on a day that is a Business Day but not a
Clearing Day, or on a day that is a Clearing Day on which there is no
Real Time Session, the relevant Simulation Margin Requirements
Result File will be published.

(E)

Bilateral Trades Report
"Bilateral Trades Report" means the report described in this
paragraph.
Description: contains all Original Transactions for the current Business
Day including details of those that have successfully passed and those
which have failed the Eligibility Controls performed pursuant to
Article 3.1.1.3, Article 3.1.2.2 or Article 3.1.2.3 of the CDS Clearing Rule
Book.
Timing: published by LCH.Clearnet SA between 09.15 CET and 09.30
CET on each Business Day.
For the avoidance of doubt, on a day that is a Business Day but not a
Clearing Day, or on a day that is a Clearing Day on which there is no
Real Time Session, the relevant Bilateral Trades Report will be
published but will not contain any data.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

27

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

(F)

CDS Clearing Operations

Cleared Trades Report
"Cleared Trades Report" means the report described in this paragraph.
Description: this report will contain the private data relating to the
Cleared Transactions of each individual Clearing Member in the CDS
Clearing System, including:
•

the financial value of each Cleared Transaction as at the date and
time of publication of such Cleared Trades Report;

•

the clearing time stamp confirming the time at which a Cleared
Transaction is registered in the Trade Account of the relevant
Clearing Member; and

•

the total stock of Cleared Transactions relating to the relevant
Clearing Member as at the date and time of publication of such
Cleared Trades Report.

Timing: published by LCH.Clearnet SA by no later than 09.30 CET on
each Business Day. For the avoidance of doubt, on a day that is a
Business Day but not a Clearing Day, or on a day that is a Clearing Day
on which there is no Real Time Session, the relevant Cleared Trades
Report will be published.
(G)

TIW Operations File
"TIW Operations File" means the file described in this paragraph.
Description: sets out, for each Clearing Member, the Original
Transactions novated and the Cleared Transactions created as a result
of compression since the previous TIW Operations File was generated.
Timing: published by LCH.Clearnet SA between 09.15 CET and 09.30
CET on each Business Day,.
For the avoidance of doubt, on a day that is a Business Day but not a
Clearing Day, or on a day that is a Clearing Day on which there is no
Real Time Session, the relevant TIW Operations File will be published.

(H)

Clearing Member Restructuring Pair File
"Clearing Member Restructuring Pair File" means the file described
in this paragraph.
Description: in respect of a DC Credit Event Announcement relating to a
Restructuring Credit Event, this file will provide Clearing Members with
details of the relevant Restructuring Matched Pairs created in
accordance with the CDS Clearing Supplement.
LCH.Clearnet SA will generate a file per Clearing Member on each
Business Day, but these files will not contain any data unless a DC
Credit Event Announcement relating to a Restructuring Credit Event
occurs at any time, in which case, from (and including) the date when
any relevant Restructuring Matched Pairs are created to (and including)

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

28

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

the relevant movement option end date, the files will contain details of
the relevant Matched Buyer and Matched Seller comprised within each
relevant Restructuring Matched Pair including the identity of the other
Clearing Member and the associated Restructuring Matched Pair
Amounts.
Timing: published by LCH.Clearnet SA between 09.15 CET and 09.30
CET on each Business Day.
For the avoidance of doubt, on a day that is a Business Day but not a
Clearing Day, or on a day that is a Clearing Day on which there is no
Real Time Session, the relevant Clearing Member Restructuring Pair
File will be published.
(I)

Event Managements Reports
"Event Reports" means the reports described in this paragraph.
Description: The event reports cover the following reports made to
Clearing
Members:
“Restructuring
Credit
Event
report”,
“Bankruptcy/Failure to Pay/Governmental Intervention Credit Event
Report”, “Rename Event Report” and “Succession Event Report”. In
respect of the DC Credit Event Announcements relating to
Restructuring, Bankruptcy, Failure to Pay, Governmental Intervention
and Succession Events, or of the market decisions for Rename Events,
these reports will provide Clearing Members with the description of the
ongoing events.
Timing: published by LCH.Clearnet SA between 09.15 CET and 09.30
CET on each Business Day.
For the avoidance of doubt, on a day that is a Business Day but not a
Clearing Day, or on a day that is a Clearing Day on which there is no
Real Time Session, the relevant Event reports will be published.

(ii)

Risk management reports
The risk management reports are dedicated to providing Clearing Members
with risk/margin calculations and reporting the resulting cash call calculations
to Clearing Members.
(A)

Margin Requirements Results File
"Margin Requirements Results File" means the file described in this
paragraph.
Description: the Margin Requirements Results File is generated for each
Clearing Member with an Open Position in respect of any of its Margin
Accounts, and sets out the detailed components of the calculation
relating to the Margin required to be transferred in relation to each
related Margin Account, including the Credit Quality Margin applied to
the Margin Account of such Clearing Member, if any. The file also
specifies the Additional Margin that LCH.Clearnet SA is entitled to call
from a Clearing Member on that Business Day.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

29

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

The Margin Requirements Results File is made up of two sub-files:
•

the Margin Result House File: containing the detailed
components and the detailed calculations relating to the House
Margin Requirement; and

•

the Margin Result Client File: containing the detailed components
and the detailed calculations relating to:





the Client Margin Requirement for each Client Margin
Account ;
the hypothetical Client Margin Requirement calculated for
each CCM Net Omnibus Segregated Account Client as if
such client has opted for a CCM Direct Client Segregated
Account Structure and for each Gross CCM Omnibus Multi
Sub-Account Client as if such client has opted for a Gross
CCM Omnibus Single Sub-Account Structure; and
the hypothetical Client Margin Requirement calculated for
each branch identified as such by the relevant Client.

For the avoidance of doubt, the Margin Requirements Results File
generated at the above time will contain details of the Open Positions
(including positions pre-registered in the Account Structure of the
relevant Clearing Member in accordance with Section 3.1.7 of the CDS
Clearing Rule Book).
Timing: published by LCH.Clearnet SA on each Business Day before
08.00 CET.
For the avoidance of doubt, on a day that is a Business Day but not a
Clearing Day, the relevant Margin Requirements Results File will be
published.
(B)

Portfolio File
"Portfolio File" means the file described in this paragraph.
Description: the Portfolio File specifies, for each Margin Account, all the
Open Positions of the Clearing Member that have been entered for the
purpose of calculating the Margin which is required to be posted in
relation to such Margin Account.
Timing: published by LCH.Clearnet SA on each Business Day every
hour and at the time of a Margin Call between 09.00 CET and 19.00
CET.
For the avoidance of doubt, on a day that is a Business Day but not a
Clearing Day, or on a day that is a Clearing Day on which there is no
Real Time Session, the relevant Portfolio File will be published.

(iii)

Collateral management reports
Timing: collateral management reports and files are sent to Clearing Members
in two formats (XML and/or plain text). The following reports and files are
published by LCH.Clearnet SA on each Business Day between 05.15 CET and

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

30

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

05.45 CET (and, with respect to the AC0102E Report, AC0103E Report and
AC0113E Report, before each call for payment of the Additional Contribution
Amount as the case may be)
(A)

AC0103E Report
"AC0103E Report" means the report described in this paragraph.
(1)

CDS Global Cash Call Document
"CDS Global Cash Call Document" means the section of the
AC0103E Report described in this paragraph.
Description: the CDS Global Cash Call Document contains
details for each Clearing Member on:
•

the daily activity (including the cash available to such
Clearing Member from the previous Business Day and
cash flows associated with Cleared Transactions of such
Clearing Member); and

•

the monthly activity (including the statement of account
and invoicing fees flow) of cash flows relating to such
Clearing Member in the CDS Clearing System.

The CDS Global Cash Call Document will separately set out the
details:
-

for the House Account Structure of a Clearing Member and
for each of its Client Account Structure(s), if applicable; and
for Euro cash flows and for USD cash flows, if applicable.

Before each call for payment of the Additional Contribution
Amount on any Business Day, LCH.Clearnet SA will send to each
relevant Clearing Member the updated CDS Global Cash Call
Document.
(B)

AC0102E Report
"AC0102E Report" means the section of the AC0102E Report
described in this paragraph.
(1)

CDS Cash Call Document
"CDS Cash Call Document" means the Report described in this
paragraph.
Description: the CDS Cash Call Document contains the global
amount of clearing flows (including Fixed Amounts in relation to
Cleared Transactions of the relevant Clearing Member), credit
event flow (including Cash Settlement Amounts and Fixed
Amount rebates in relation to Cleared Transactions of the
relevant Clearing Member) and collateral flows (including initial
margin, short charge margin, recovery risk margin,

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

31

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

self-referencing protection margin, interest rate margin, coupon,
credit event margin, increase coverage, contingency variation
margin and liquidity charge), which is calculated for value day "D"
and compared to the amount of Collateral (bonds and shares,
non-Euro and Euro cash) allocated from the previous Business
Day for the relevant Clearing Member.
The CDS Cash Call Document will separately document the
clearing and collateral flows:
-

for the House Account Structure of a Clearing Member and
for each of its Client Account Structure(s), if applicable; and

-

for Euro cash flows and for USD cash flows, if applicable.

The sum of all these cash flows is reported at the end of the CDS
Cash Call Document and, also, as a specific line, in the CDS
Global Cash Call Document.
(2)

CDS Default Fund Cash Call Document
"CDS Default Fund Cash Call Document" means the section of
the AC0102E Report described in this paragraph.
Description: the CDS Default Fund Cash Call Document details
the global amount of a Clearing Member's contribution to the
CDS Default Fund which is compared to the amount of Collateral
allocated from the previous Business Day.
Before each call for payment of the Additional Contribution
Amount on any Business Day, LCH.Clearnet SA will send to each
relevant Clearing Member the updated CDS Default Fund Cash
Call Document detailing the Additional Contribution Amount to be
paid by such relevant Clearing Member in accordance with
Section 6 of the Procedures.

(C)

AC0110E Report
"AC0110E Report" means the report described in this paragraph.
(1)

Initial and Global Financial Reports
"Initial and Global Financial Reports" means the Initial
Financial Report and Global Financial Report sections of the
AC0110E Report.
Description: LCH.Clearnet SA will send the Initial and Global
Financial Reports to each Clearing Member using non-Euro
currencies, Bonds and shares, as Collateral.
(A)

Initial Financial Report
"Initial Financial Report" means the section of the
AC0110E Report described in this paragraph.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

32

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

The Initial Financial Report contains the detail of available
and allocated cash, bonds and shares and non Euro
currencies, per market and per sub-account.
Timing: published by LCH.Clearnet SA before each
TARGET2 time slot on each Business Day and upon a
Clearing Member crediting LCH.Clearnet SA TARGET2
Account as described under Section 3.7(f). In the latter
case, it will only be made available to the relevant Clearing
Member.
(B)

Global Financial Report
"Global Financial Report" means the section of the
AC0110E Report described in this paragraph.
The Global Financial Report contains details of the type of
Eligible Collateral (ISIN code or code of non euro
currency), and the related quotations, its value calculated
in Euro, the applied haircut rate and its allocated and
available amounts.
Timing: published by LCH.Clearnet SA before each
TARGET2 time slot on each Business Day and upon a
Clearing Member crediting LCH.Clearnet SA TARGET2
Account as described under Section 3.7(f). In the latter
case, it will only be made available to the relevant Clearing
Member.

(D)

AC0104E Report
"AC0104E Report" means the report described in this paragraph.
(1)

Advice Accounting Notes Report
"Advice Accounting Notes Report" means the section of the
AC0104E Report described in this paragraph.
Description: the Advice Accounting Notes Report details all
accounting operations recorded in LCH.Clearnet SA's books for
each Clearing Member on the previous Business Day in
accordance with its profile (market, sub-account, collateral, etc).
The Advice Accounting Notes Report is sent with the CDS Global
Cash Call Document.

(E)

AC0111E Report
"AC0111E Report" means the report described in this paragraph.
(1)

History of withdrawal/deposit requests and collateral
balance after settlement
Description: this report contains the recap of all the deposit and
withdrawal demands of collateral (cash or securities) accepted or

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

33

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

rejected, from the last report sent. This report contains also the
total excess collateral. For each Collateral Account a balance
after settlement is calculated with the global amount, the
allocated amount and the available amount for each authorised
type of collateral and such for each Collateral Account of the
relevant Clearing Member.
(F)

AC0112E Report
"AC0112E Report" means the report described in this paragraph.
(1)

Details of Regularisation of Cash Flow Operations
"Details of Regularisation of Cash Flow Operations" means
the section of the AC0112E Report described in this paragraph.
Description: the Details of Regularisation of Cash Flow
Operations is published only if LCH.Clearnet SA operates any
manual regularisation. The AC0112E Report will be sent with the
CDS Default Fund Cash Call Document.

(G)

AC0113E Report
"AC0113E Report" means the report described in this paragraph.
(1)

Net Payment Position of Cash Flow Operations
Description: this report contains the sum of all the balances set
out in the CDS Cash Call Document and the CDS Default Fund
Cash Call Document, that are due by the Clearing Member to
LCH.Clearnet SA. This report will separately identify the amounts
due in respect of the House Account Structure of a Clearing
Member and each of its Client Account Structure(s), if applicable

(b)

Intraday Call Reports

"Intraday Call Reports" means the reports listed in this paragraph 5.16(b) (the
descriptions of which are as set out in paragraph 5.16 (a), above unless otherwise
noted below) published by LCH.Clearnet SA on each Business Day on or around each
Intraday Call and at the End of Day, as specified below.
For the avoidance of doubt, on a day that is a Business Day but not a Clearing Day, or
on a day that is a Clearing Day on which there is no Real Time Session, the Intraday
Call Reports will still be published.
(i)

Trade management reports
(A)

Bilateral Trades Report
Description: contains all details of the Intraday Transactions which have
been novated on the current Business Day as well as details of those
that have become Rejected Transactions in accordance with the CDS
Clearing Rule Book.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

34

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

Timing: published by LCH.Clearnet SA on each Business Day between
11.55 CET and 12.25 CET (in respect of the First Intraday Call),
between 15.55 CET and 16.25 CET (in respect of the Second Intraday
Call) and by 20.00 CET (in respect of End of Day).
On a day that is a Business Day but not a Clearing Day, or on a day that
is a Clearing Day on which there is no Real Time Session, the relevant
Bilateral Trades Reports will not contain any data.
(B)

Cleared Trades Report
Timing: published by LCH.Clearnet SA on each Business Day between
11.55 CET and 12.25 CET (in respect of the First Intraday Call),
between 15.55 CET and 16.25 CET (in respect of the Second Intraday
Call) and by 20.00 CET (in respect of End of Day).

(C)

TIW Operations File
Timing: published by LCH.Clearnet SA on each Business Day between
11.55 CET and 12.25 CET (in respect of the First Intraday Call),
between 15.55 CET and 16.25 CET (in respect of the Second Intraday
Call) and by 20.00 CET (in respect of End of Day).

(ii)

Risk management reports
(A)

Margin Requirements Results File
Timing: published by LCH.Clearnet SA on each Business Day between
10.55 CET and 11.25 CET (in respect of the First Intraday Call),
between 14.55 CET and 15.25 CET (in respect of the Second Intraday
Call), and by 20.00 CET (in respect of End of Day).
At these times, LCH.Clearnet SA will provide two Margin Requirements
Results Files to each relevant Clearing Member:
(i)

the first Margin Requirements Results File will contain details of
the calculation relating to the Margin required to be posted in
relation to the Portfolio File described in paragraph 5.16(c)(ii)(B)
below in respect of the Open Positions recorded in the House
Margin Account, on the basis of the relevant Clearing Member’s
Open Positions between 11:00 and 12:00 CET on that Business
Day;

(ii)

the second Margin Requirements Results File will contain details
of the calculation relating to the Margin required to be posted in
relation to the Portfolio File described in paragraph 5.16(c)(ii)(B)
below in respect of the Open Positions registered in each Client
Margin Account which is calculated based on the Clearing
Member’s Open Positions at about 11.30 CET on that Business
Day.

and in each case an indicator of whether such Margin Requirement
Results File has been used for the purposes of the applicable Intraday
Call.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

35

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

(B)

CDS Clearing Operations

Portfolio Files
Description: the Portfolio File specifies, for each Margin Account, all the
Open Positions of the Clearing Member and the positions
corresponding to Eligible Transactions pre-registered in the Account
Structure of the relevant Clearing Member that have been entered for
the purpose of calculating the Margin which is required to be posted in
relation to such Margin Account.
Timing: published by LCH.Clearnet SA on each Business Day between
11.55 CET and 12.25 CET (in respect of the First Intraday Call),
between 14.55 CET and 15.25 CET (in respect of the Second Intraday
Call), and by 20.00 CET (in respect of End of Day).

(iii)

Collateral management reports
Description:
(A)

AC0103E Report

(B)

AC0102E Report

(C)

AC0110E Report

(D)

AC0104E Report

(E)

AC0111E Report

(F)

AC0112E Report

(G)

AC0113E Report

Timing: the above mentioned reports and files are published by LCH.Clearnet
SA on each Business Day between 11.05 CET and 11.20 CET (in respect of
the First Intraday Call), and between 15.05 CET and 15.20 CET (in respect of
the Second Intraday Call) (the descriptions of the following reports are as set
out in Section 5.16(a)(iii), above).
(c)
(i)

Other daily reports
Product File
"Product File" means the file described in this paragraph.
Description: the Product File contains the details of all the types of CDS then
eligible for clearing in the CDS Clearing System and all the types of CDS which
have ceased to be eligible for clearing within the period commencing 60
Clearing Days prior to the date of publication of the relevant Product File and
ending on the date of publication of such Product File.
Timing: published by LCH.Clearnet SA on each Business Day by 21.00 CET.
For the avoidance of doubt, on a day that is a Business Day but not a Clearing
Day, or on a day that is a Clearing Day on which there is no Real Time Session,
the relevant Product File will be published.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

36

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

(ii)

CDS Clearing Operations

Open Interest Report
"Open Interest Report" means the report described in this paragraph.
Description: the Open Interest Report is a public report which contains the open
interest per CDS Type registered in the CDS Clearing System. The open
interest is calculated to be the sum of the net notional amounts for all Clearing
Members who are net CDS Buyers for each CDS Type.
Timing: published by LCH.Clearnet SA (i) between 09.15 CET and 09.30 CET
on each Business Day.
For the avoidance of doubt, on a day that is a Business Day but not a Clearing
Day, or on a day that is a Clearing Day on which there is no Real Time Session,
the relevant Open Interest Report will be published.

(iii)

Cross Trades Report
"Cross Trades Report" means the reports described in this paragraph.
Description: the Cross Trades Report contains details of those cross trades
which are required to be executed by a Clearing Member in accordance with
Paragraph 5.18.5.
Timing: published by LCH.Clearnet SA by 18.30 CET on each Clearing Day.
Where a Cross Trade Report is published on a Clearing Day that:
(a) is not a Firm Day; or
(b) is a Firm Day but, on which, none of the prices provided by the
Clearing Member in accordance with Paragraph 5.18.5 result in the
creation of cross trades,
then the Cross Trades Report will be published but will not contain any data.
For the avoidance of doubt, on a day that is a Clearing Day on which there is no
Real Time Session, the relevant Cross Trades Report will be published.

(iv)

Variation Margin Report
Description: the Variation Margin Report is generated for each Clearing
Member and sets out the detailed components of the calculation relating to the
Variation Margin Requirement. The Variation Margin Report is made up of two
sub-files: the Variation Margin House File with respect to the House Variation
Margin Requirement and the Variation Margin Client File with respect to the
Client Variation Margin Requirement for each Client Margin Account. Each of
these sub-files specifies:
•

with respect to each Cleared Transaction registered in the relevant
Account Structure of the relevant Clearing Member, the Variation Margin
which shall be paid to LCH.Clearnet SA or, as applicable, received from
LCH.Clearnet SA at the same time as the following Morning Call; and

•

with respect to each Irrevocable Backloading Transaction pre-registered in
the relevant Account Structure of the relevant Clearing Member, the

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

37

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

Variation Margin which shall be paid to LCH.Clearnet SA or, as applicable,
received from LCH.Clearnet SA at the same time as the following First
Intraday Call, provided that such Irrevocable Backloading Transaction is
novated following the Morning Call on the relevant Clearing Day.
Timing: published by LCH.Clearnet SA between 02:00 CET and 04:00 CET on
each Business Day.
For the avoidance of doubt, on a day that is a Business Day but not a Clearing
Day, or on a day that is a Clearing Day on which there is no Real Time Session,
the relevant Variation Margin Report will be published.
(d)

Monthly reports

(i)

AC0101E Report
"AC0101E Report" means the report described in this paragraph.
(A)

Invoicing Cash Call Report
"Invoicing Cash Call Report" means the section of the AC0101E
Report described in this paragraph.
LCH.Clearnet SA will send the Invoicing Cash Call Report to each
Clearing Member on the tenth Clearing Day of the month, listing the
references and amounts of the invoices relating to the CDS Clearing
System. Once available, this information is also set out as a specific
line item in the CDS Global Cash Call Document.

(ii)

AC0106E Report
"AC0106E Report" means the report described in this paragraph.
(A)

Interest Report
"Interest Report" means the section of the AC0106E Report
described in this paragraph.
LCH.Clearnet SA will send the Interest Report to each Clearing
Member on the third Clearing Day of each month, containing the global
monthly calculation per Margin/Collateral Account and a detailed
calculation of interest to be paid to LCH.Clearnet SA, or due from
LCH.Clearnet SA, relating to the Collateral transferred by such
Clearing Member pursuant to Section 3 of the Procedures. The sum of
interest is also reported as a specific line in the CDS Global Cash Call
Document.

(iii)

AC0126E Report
"AC0126E Report" means the report described in this paragraph.
(A)

Interest Scales Report Section
"Interest Scales Report" means the section of the AC0126E Report
described in this paragraph.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

38

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

LCH.Clearnet SA will send the Interest Scales Report to each Clearing
Member on the third Clearing Day of each month, containing the detail
of the daily calculation of interest and fees for each Margin Account,
including for each date, the amount of allocated collateral and applied
daily rate.
(iv)

AC0129E Report
"AC0129E Report" means the report described in this paragraph.
(A)

CDS Default Fund Contribution
"CDS Default Fund Contribution" means the section of the AC0129E
Report described in this paragraph.
LCH.Clearnet SA will send the CDS Default Fund Contribution to each
Clearing Member on the fourth Business Day of the month, setting out
the new calculation of such Clearing Member's monthly contribution to
the CDS Default Fund for the next period.
This new contribution is also reported in the CDS Default Fund Cash
Call Document.

(v)

AC0105E Report
"AC0105E Report" means the report described in this paragraph.
(A)

Monthly Accounting Notes Report
"Monthly Accounting Notes Report " means the section of the
AC0105E Report described in this paragraph.
LCH.Clearnet SA will send the Monthly Accounting Notes Report to
each Clearing Member on the first Clearing Day of each month detailing
all accounting operations recorded in LCH.Clearnet SA's book for the
relevant Clearing Member during the month in accordance with its
profile (market, sub-account, collateral, etc.
Each AC0105E Report is sent with the CDS Global Cash Call
Document.

(vi)

Billing and Invoicing Reports
"Billing and Invoicing Report" means the report described in this paragraph.

LCH.Clearnet SA will send to each Clearing Member a CDS Billing and Invoicing
Report on a monthly basis.
(e)

Collateral Holding Report
"Collateral Holding Report" means the report described in this paragraph.

Euroclear Bank SA/NV will provide LCH.Clearnet SA and each Clearing Member with
a Collateral Holding Report via SWIFT each time there is a movement on the pledged
securities account contemplated by paragraph 3.13 of Section 3 of the Procedures
(the “Pledged Account”) on a Business Day. Such report will include: (i) details of the
LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

39

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

Eligible Collateral held in the Pledged Account; (ii) the ISIN code(s) of the relevant
Eligible Collateral, if applicable; and (iii) the outstanding principal amount of the
relevant Eligible Collateral. LCH.Clearnet SA shall grant Clearing Members
simultaneous access to each such Collateral Holding Report via Euclid PC between
05.00 CET and 20.00 CET on each Business Day.
(f)

Compression Results File
"Compression Results File " means the report described in this paragraph.

Description: A Compression Results File will contain confirmation of the details of the
resultant compressed trades that have been created following the submission of an
ad-hoc compression request by a Clearing Member.
Timing: Shortly after a Clearing Member submits an ad-hoc compression request in
accordance with Section 5.5(a) above, LCH.Clearnet SA will publish a Compression
Results File in respect of such request.
5.17

REGULATORY REPORTING
(a)

Reporting obligation under EMIR
Pursuant to EMIR, LCH.Clearnet SA will report the details of any Cleared
Transaction subject to the reporting obligation in accordance with EMIR Article
9.1 to a trade repository duly registered or recognised in accordance with EMIR.
For this purpose, LCH.Clearnet SA will be using UnaVista Ltd as a trade
repository (“UnaVista”).
LCH.Clearnet SA will not report the details of any Cleared Transaction on
behalf of the relevant Clearing Member and/or its Clients.
The details of any Cleared Transaction and any modification (including any
correction of errors or inconsistencies contained in a report) or termination of
such Cleared Transaction shall be reported to UnaVista no later than the
Business Day following the day of occurrence of the event triggering the
obligation to report pursuant to EMIR.
For the purpose of the above reporting, LCH.Clearnet SA will generate a
Unique Trade ID (“UTI”) to identify a Cleared Transaction and will communicate
such UTI to the relevant Clearing Members in due time. Such UTI will be used
from the creation of the Cleared Transaction until its termination.

(b)

Reporting obligation under CFTC Regulations Part 45
Pursuant to CFTC Regulations Part 45, LCH.Clearnet SA will send reports to a
Swap Data Repository (“SDR”). For this purpose LCH.Clearnet SA will be using
DTCC Data Repository (U.S.) LLC (“DDR”) as an SDR.
The reporting to DDR will include creation data, continuation data and valuation
data on any relevant Cleared Transaction as described below and according to
the below timing:
1. Creation data: any creation of a Cleared Transaction as a result of the
novation process will be reported by LCH.Clearnet SA to DDR, upon

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

40

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

occurrence of registration of the Cleared Transaction in accordance with
Section 3.1.10 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book;
2. Continuation data: information on lifecycle events of the Cleared
Transaction, including any termination, compression, credit events will be
reported by LCH.Clearnet SA to DDR, upon occurrence of the relevant
registration of such event;
3. Valuation data: the value of each relevant Cleared Transaction will be
reported on a daily basis by LCH.Clearnet SA to DDR.
For the purpose of the above reporting, LCH.Clearnet SA will use:

5.18

(i)

a Unique Swap Identifier (“USI”) to identify a Cleared Transaction and
such USI will be used from the creation of the Transaction until its
termination;

(ii)

the CFTC Interim Compliant Identifier (“CICI”) of each Party to the
Transaction.

END OF DAY PRICE CONTRIBUTION
References to times and deadlines in this paragraph 5.18 are to London local time
(being Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) or British Summer Time (BST) as applicable).

5.18.1 Market Data submission obligation
LCH.Clearnet SA has appointed the Index Publisher to be a Third Party Data
Aggregator for the purposes of the CDS Admission Agreement.
On each Price Contribution Day, LCH.Clearnet SA will request the Index Publisher to
obtain Market Data from each Price Contribution Participant for CDS in respect of
which they have Open Positions.
Price Contribution Participants are required to submit Market Data between 16.30 and
16.35 on each Price Contribution Day.
If a Clearing Member wishes to appoint a Price Contribution Delegate, it shall first
obtain the prior approval of LCH.Clearnet SA. For that purpose, the relevant Clearing
Member shall contact LCH.Clearnet SA’s CDSClear Member Sales & Relationship
Management team (CDSClearMemberSalesRM@lchclearnet.com, +44 (0) 203 137
4516) and shall provide such information as may be required by LCH.Clearnet SA. For
the avoidance of doubt, LCH.Clearnet SA has full discretion as to the approval of a
Price Contribution Delegate for any Clearing Member.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

41

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

5.18.2 Calculation of End of Day Contributed Prices
The following diagram illustrates the procedures and flows for the calculation of the
End of Day Contributed Prices.

At a high level, for the Index Publisher, there are effectively 5 steps in the process.
(a)

Receipt of Price Contribution Participants’’ Market Data

(b)

Application of bid/ask constraint




Selection of Benchmark Instruments
o

Index: iTraxx Europe Main, HiVol, Cross Over, Senior Financials and
CDX.NA.IG “On the Run” 5yr

o

Single Name: 5 Year Standard Coupon and Currency

Observe “High Quality” Dealer Quoted Bid/Ask Spread
o

Observation Window: 14.00 to 16.00

o

Definition of Unique Quote: 2 minutes since last seen identical quote

o

Quote Markit Quality Score of 8 or higher

o

Minimum Quoting Dealers: To be set out in a risk notice

o

Quoting Dealers: Only Quotes from
Contribution Participants used

o

Minimum Unique Quotes: 20 for Indices/10 for Single Name

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

42

LCH.Clearnet

SA Price

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

o

CDS Clearing Operations

Non-Observed Process: 10 day rolling average

- If the 10 day moving average is used for more than 1 day, the
Risk Committee should be notified.
o

Fixed Initial Bid/Ask Spread: Used if no 10 Day rolling average
available.

(c)

Determination of clearing price

(d)

Determination of any trades (potential)

(e)

Communication of clearing price

5.18.3 Price submission procedure
Price Contribution Participants should submit Market Data in accordance with the
following procedure:
●

LCH.Clearnet SA will transmit to the Index Publisher, on a daily basis, the
Market Data for Clearing Members with Open Positions in Cleared
Transactions;

●

Price Contribution Participants will receive price requirement files listing the
Open Positions in respect of which they are required to submit Market Data;

●

The price requirement files will be available from the Index Publisher’s website
for download daily between 14.30 and 15.00;

●

Price Contribution Participants upload Market Data submissions to the Index
Publisher for the Cleared Transactions listed in the price requirement file
between 16.00 and 16.35;

●

Market Data can be re-submitted during this time; where a Price Contribution
Participant does this the latest submitted Market Data will be taken into account
by the Index Publisher;

●

Market Data should be supplied via a Markit spreadsheet or a Markit API;

●

Price Contribution Participants’ Market Data submission can either be Bid/Ask
pairs or Mids;

●

The Index Publisher carries out real time checks on the data submitted to take
account of fat-fingering, invalid reference data, etc. A validation log will be
available
to
Price
Contribution
Participants
for
erroneous
submissions/warnings.

5.18.4 Use of composite spreads/prices
To the extent LCH.Clearnet SA has not received End of Day Contributed Prices from
the Index Publisher by 17:15 it will use:
(a) With respect to Index Cleared Transactions, composite prices/spreads for the
purposes of calculating the Variation Margin Requirement for each Margin Account of
a Clearing Member on the next following Business Day;
LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

43

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

(b) With respect to Single Names Cleared Transactions, a computation of end of
day contributed spreads and composite spreads for the purpose of calculating the
Variation Margin Requirement for each Margin Account of a Clearing Member on the
next following Business Day;
in accordance with Article 4.2.7.1 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book.
5.18.5 Trade crossing
In order to validate the Market Data submitted by Price Contribution Participants in
accordance with this Paragraph 5.18, LCH.Clearnet SA shall require Price
Contribution Participants to undertake trade crossing in accordance with Article 4.2.7.7
of the CDS Clearing Rule Book.
(a)

Firm Days
LCH.Clearnet SA shall determine a number of "Firm Days" being the last Clearing Day
of each quarter and 30 other Clearing Days in any calendar year chosen at
LCH.Clearnet SA’s sole discretion, and shall communicate such Firm Days to Price
Contribution Participants promptly after the closure of the submission window at 16:35
on each such Firm Day.

(b)

Determination of cross trades
The Index Publisher will inform LCH.Clearnet SA on each Price Contribution Day
where prices submitted by Price Contribution Participants in accordance with this
Paragraph 5.18 do not reflect the quoted daily spread for a particular CDS. On each
Firm Day, Price Contribution Participants whose price(s) do not reflect the quoted
daily spread for a particular CDS on such Firm Day will be required to execute a CDS
with another Price Contribution Participant on pre-determined terms, as set out in
Paragraph 5.18.5(c) below. CDS must be executed by a Price Contribution Participant
prior to End of Day on the Price Contribution Day following the relevant Firm Day.

(c)

Terms of cross trades
LCH.Clearnet SA shall notify the relevant Price Contribution Participant of the
following required CDS terms by issuing a Cross Trade Report in accordance with
Paragraph 5.16(c)(iii) above:














Index Version or Reference Entity as applicable
Red code
Original Notional Amount or Floating Rate Payer Calculation Amount as
applicable
Currency
Fixed Rate
Fixed Rate Payer
Floating Rate Payer
Scheduled Termination Date
applicable ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions
Initial Payment Amount
Initial Payment Payer
Initial Payment Receiver
Transaction Type

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

44

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

(d)

CDS Clearing Operations

Notification of execution
Price Contribution Participants required to execute cross trades in accordance with
this Paragraph 5.18.5 must provide LCH.Clearnet SA with the DTCC trade reference
identifier (TRI) before End of Day on the Clearing Day following the relevant Firm Day
by emailing this to LCH.Clearnet SA’s Operations department at
cdsclear.ops@lchclearnet.com.

5.18.6 Failure to submit prices
In the event that a Price Contribution Participant does not submit prices to the Index
Publisher in accordance with Section 5.18.3, or execute cross trades in accordance
with Section 5.18.5, of these Procedures, LCH.Clearnet SA shall be permitted to
invoke Disciplinary Proceedings in respect of the Price Contribution Participant, and as
the case may be, the affiliated Clearing Member for which such Price Contribution
Participant acts, in accordance with Section 8 of these Procedures.
In circumstances where a failure to provide prices or execute cross trades in
accordance with Section 5.18 of these Procedures is the only breach by that Price
Contribution Participant, and as the case may be, the affiliated Clearing Member for
which such Price Contribution Participant acts, of its obligations under the CDS
Clearing Documentation, LCH.Clearnet SA shall not be permitted to declare an Event
of Default in respect of that Price Contribution Participant, and as the case may be, the
affiliated Clearing Member for which such Price Contribution Participant acts, pursuant
to Article 4.3.1.2 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

45

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

APPENDIX 1

CLIENT – PARTIAL TRANSFER FORM
CLIENT - PARTIAL TRANSFER
FORM
V.[ ]: [ ] 20[ ]
Terms used in this form are as defined in LCH.Clearnet SA's CDS Clearing Rule Book unless defined
herein

To:

From:

LCH.Clearnet SA

Receiving Clearing Member

Date:

We, .............................. [insert name of Receiving Clearing Member] (the “Receiving Clearing
Member”) have received a request from ...................................................... [insert
name
of
transferring Client] (the “Client”) to transfer (i) in the case of a Client which is either a CCM Individual
Segregated Account Client or an FCM Client, part of its portfolio of Client Cleared Transactions
registered in the relevant Client Account Structure; and (ii) in the case of a Client which is a CCM
Omnibus Segregated Account Client, part or all of its portfolio of Client Cleared Transactions registered
in the relevant Client Account Structure, from ....[insert name of Carrying Clearing Member] to us. We
hereby request the transfer of the Client Cleared Transactions as identified below pursuant to Article
5.3.3.1, 5.3.3.2, Article 5.3.3.3, Article 5.3.3.4 or 6.3.3.1, as applicable, of the CDS Clearing Rule Book
and Section 5 of the Procedures.
Please insert the LCH trade IDs of the transferring Client Cleared Transactions, using the Schedule
below:
**Please insert the LCH trade ID and Approved Trade Source System ID of the transferring Client
Cleared Transactions.
**Please append a list of additional Client Cleared Transactions to this form, if required
LCH Trade ID

Approved Trade Source System Trade ID

Signatories for and on behalf of the Receiving Clearing Member:
We acknowledge and confirm the above and are authorised to sign for and on behalf of the Receiving
Clearing Member

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

46

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

1.
(Authorised Signatory)

Name

Position

Date

(Authorised Signatory)

Name

Position

Date

2.

Signatories for and on behalf of the transferring Client:
To: Receiving Clearing Member
We acknowledge and confirm:
i.
the request to transfer as detailed above;
ii.
that LCH.Clearnet SA will contact our Carrying Clearing Member in relation to this transfer
and will disclose our identity to such Carrying Clearing Member;
iii.
that, in accordance with LCH.Clearnet SA’s CDS Clearing Rule Book, LCH.Clearnet SA is
entitled to rely conclusively on the instructions and information received from the Receiving Clearing
Member and the Carrying Clearing Member and shall have no liability or responsibility therefor;
iv.
that the transfer detailed above may require that additional Collateral be provided to
LCH.Clearnet SA in satisfaction of an increased Margin Requirement (and/or by us to the Receiving
Clearing Member listed above and/or by us to our Carrying Clearing Member), and that
LCH.Clearnet SA is not required to effect the transfer if it has not received adequate Collateral in
respect of the transfer or if any of the other conditions set forth in LCH.Clearnet SA’s CDS Clearing
Rule Book applicable to the transfer are unsatisfied;
v.
that in order for the transfer detailed above to be effected, we will be required to satisfy any
requirements as between ourselves and the Carrying Clearing Member at the time of, or arising as a
result of, such transfer, to the extent LCH.Clearnet SA’s CDS Clearing Rule Book states that such
requirements must be satisfied in order for the transfer to be effected, including, without limitation,
any outstanding obligations that are due and payable to the Carrying Clearing Member at the time
of, or arising as a result of, such transfer, as provided for in Article 5.3.3.1(vi), 5.3.3.2(v), Article
5.3.3.3 (v) or Article 5.3.3.4 (v), as applicable, of the CDS Clearing Rule Book; and
vi.
that we are authorised to make these acknowledgements and confirmations and do so on
behalf of the Client listed above in accordance with Section 5.3.3 or 6.3.3, as applicable, of the CDS
Clearing Rule Book.
For and on behalf of the Client:

Authorised signatory
Authorised signatory

Date
Date
All forms should be returned to LCH.Clearnet SA for the attention of the CDSClear Operations
department.
Email: CDSClear.ops@LCHClearnet.com
Telephone: + 33 1 70 37 42 24
LCH.Clearnet SA - CDSClear Operations
department
18, rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

47

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

APPENDIX 2
PART A: CCM INDIVIDUAL SEGREGATED ACCOUNT CLIENT – FULL TRANSFER
FORM

CCM CLIENT - FULL TRANSFER FORM
V.[ ]: [ ] 20[ ]
Terms used in this form are as defined in LCH.Clearnet SA's CDS Clearing Rule Book unless defined herein

To:

LCH.Clearnet SA

From:

Receiving Clearing Member

Date:
We, ............................... [insert name of Receiving Clearing Member] (the “Receiving Clearing
Member”) have received a request from ............... ...................................................... [insert name of
transferring Client] (the “Client”) to transfer its entire portfolio of Client Cleared Transactions registered
in the relevant [[insert [CCM Direct Client Segregated Account Structure] [and/or]* [CCM Indirect Client
Segregated Account Structure]*] from .............. [insert name of Carrying Clearing Member] to us. We
hereby request the transfer of all Client Cleared Transactions registered in the name of the Carrying
Clearing Member on behalf of the relevant Client pursuant to Article 5.3.2.1 of the CDS Clearing Rule
Book (as applicable) and the Procedures.
* Delete as appropriate

Please insert:
Name of Carrying Clearing Member:
.....................................................................................................................
in order to enable LCH.Clearnet SA to identify the Client Cleared Transactions that are to be
transferred.
Please tick the relevant box below to confirm whether the Client wishes to transfer the Client Assets
in accordance with Article5.3.2.2 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book (as applicable).
The Client wishes to transfer Client Assets
The Client does NOT wish to transfer Client Assets

Signatories for and on behalf of the Receiving Clearing Member:
We acknowledge and confirm the above and are authorised to sign for and on behalf of the Receiving Clearing
Member
1.
(Authorised Signatory)

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

Name

Position

48

date

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

2.
(Authorised Signatory)

Name

Position

date

Signatories for and on behalf of the transferring Client:
To: Receiving Clearing Member
We acknowledge and confirm:
i.
the request to transfer as detailed herein;
ii.
that our Carrying Clearing Member shall not be permitted to register additional Cleared
Transactions on our behalf during the period commencing at the end of the CDS Clearing Services
operating hours on the day on which it received notice that a Client Full Transfer Form has been received
and ending at the time at which the relevant transfer (including the transfer of the relevant Client Assets,
if applicable) is actually effected or is rejected;
iii.
that LCH.Clearnet SA will contact our Carrying Clearing Member in relation to this transfer and
will disclose our identity to such Carrying Clearing Member;
iv.
that, in accordance with LCH.Clearnet SA’s CDS Clearing Rule Book, LCH.Clearnet SA is
entitled to rely conclusively on the instructions and information received from the Receiving Clearing
Member and the Carrying Clearing Member and shall have no liability or responsibility therefore;
v.
that the transfer detailed above may require that additional Collateral be provided to
LCH.Clearnet SA to satisfy an increased Margin Requirement (and/or by us to the Receiving Clearing
Member) even where Client Assets are transferred, and that LCH.Clearnet SA is not required to effect
the transfer if it has not received adequate Collateral in respect of the transfer or if any of the other
conditions set forth in LCH.Clearnet SA’s CDS Clearing Rule Book applicable to the transfer are
unsatisfied;
vi.
in order for the transfer detailed above to be effected, we will be required to satisfy any
requirements as between ourselves and the Carrying Clearing Member at the time of, or arising as a
result of, such transfer, to the extent LCH.Clearnet SA’s CDS Clearing Rule Book states that such
requirements must be satisfied in order for the transfer to be effected, including, without limitation, any
outstanding obligations that are due and payable to the Carrying Clearing Member at the time of, or
arising as a result of, such transfer, as provided for in Article 5.3.2.1(vii) of the CDS Clearing Rule
Book (as applicable);
vii.
that we are authorised to make these acknowledgements and confirmations and do so on behalf
of the Client listed above in accordance with the Section 5.3.2 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book.

For and on behalf of the Client:

Authorised signatory

Authorised signatory

Date

Date

All forms should be returned to LCH.Clearnet SA for the attention of the CDSClear Operations department.
Email: CDSClear.ops@LCHClearnet.com
Telephone: + 33 1 70 37 42 24
LCH.Clearnet SA - CDSClear Operations
department
18, rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

49

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

PART B: CCM OMNIBUS SEGREGATED ACCOUNT CLIENT – FULL TRANSFER FORM

CCM CLIENT - FULL TRANSFER FORM
V.[ ]: [ ] 20[ ]
Terms used in this form are as defined in LCH.Clearnet SA's CDS Clearing Rule Book unless defined herein

To:

LCH.Clearnet SA

From:

Receiving Clearing Member

Date:
We, ............................... [insert name of Receiving Clearing Member] (the “Receiving Clearing
Member”) have received a request from ................ ...................................................... [insert name of
all the CCM Omnibus Segregated Account Clients within a CCM Omnibus Client Set] (the “Clients”) to
transfer their entire portfolio of Client Cleared Transactions registered in the relevant CCM Client
Account Structure from .............. [insert name of Carrying Clearing Member] to us. We hereby request
the transfer of all Client Cleared Transactions registered in the name of the Carrying Clearing Member
on behalf of the relevant Clients pursuant to Article 5.3.2.1 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book (as
applicable) and the Procedures.
Please insert:
Name of Carrying Clearing Member:
.....................................................................................................................
in order to enable LCH.Clearnet SA to identify the Client Cleared Transactions that are to be
transferred.
Please tick the relevant box below to confirm whether the Clients wish to transfer the Client Assets in
accordance with Article5.3.2.2 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book (as applicable).
The Clients wish to transfer Client Assets
The Clients do NOT wish to transfer Client Assets

Signatories for and on behalf of the Receiving Clearing Member:
We acknowledge and confirm the above and are authorised to sign for and on behalf of the Receiving Clearing
Member
1.
(Authorised Signatory)

Name

Position

date

(Authorised Signatory)

Name

Position

date

2.

Signatories for and on behalf of the transferring CCM Omnibus Segregated Account Clients:
To: Receiving Clearing Member
We acknowledge and confirm:

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

50

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

i. the request to transfer as detailed herein;
ii.
that our Carrying Clearing Member shall not be permitted to register additional Cleared
Transactions on our behalf during the period commencing at the end of the CDS Clearing Services
operating hours on the day on which it received notice that a Client Full Transfer Form has been received
and ending at the time at which the relevant transfer (including the transfer of the relevant Client Assets,
if applicable) is actually effected or is rejected;
iii.
that LCH.Clearnet SA will contact our Carrying Clearing Member in relation to this transfer and
will disclose our identity to such Carrying Clearing Member;
iv.
that, in accordance with LCH.Clearnet SA’s CDS Clearing Rule Book, LCH.Clearnet SA is
entitled to rely conclusively on the instructions and information received from the Receiving Clearing
Member and the Carrying Clearing Member and shall have no liability or responsibility therefore;
v.
that the transfer detailed above may require that additional Collateral be provided to
LCH.Clearnet SA to satisfy an increased Margin Requirement (and/or by us to the Receiving Clearing
Member) even where Client Assets are transferred, and that LCH.Clearnet SA is not required to effect
the transfer if it has not received adequate Collateral in respect of the transfer or if any of the other
conditions set forth in LCH.Clearnet SA’s CDS Clearing Rule Book applicable to the transfer are
unsatisfied;
vi.
in order for the transfer detailed above to be effected, we will be required to satisfy any
requirements as between ourselves and the Carrying Clearing Member at the time of, or arising as a
result of, such transfer, to the extent LCH.Clearnet SA’s CDS Clearing Rule Book states that such
requirements must be satisfied in order for the transfer to be effected, including, without limitation, any
outstanding obligations that are due and payable to the Carrying Clearing Member at the time of, or
arising as a result of, such transfer, as provided for in Article 5.3.2.2(vi) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book
(as applicable);
vii.
that we are authorised to make these acknowledgements and confirmations and do so on behalf
of the Client listed above in accordance with the Section 5.3.2 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book.

For and on behalf of the Clients:

Authorised signatory

Authorised signatory

Date

Date

Authorised signatory

Authorised signatory

Date

Date

Authorised signatory

Authorised signatory

Date

Date

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

51

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

Authorised signatory

Authorised signatory

Date

Date

All forms should be returned to LCH.Clearnet SA for the attention of the CDSClear Operations department.
Email: CDSClear.ops@LCHClearnet.com
Telephone: + 33 1 70 37 42 24
LCH.Clearnet SA - CDSClear Operations
department
18, rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

52

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

PART C : FCM CLIENT- FULL TRANSFER FORM

FCM CLIENT - FULL TRANSFER FORM
V.[ ]: [ ] 20[ ]
Terms used in this form are as defined in LCH.Clearnet SA's CDS Clearing Rule Book unless defined herein

To:

LCH.Clearnet SA

From:

Receiving Clearing Member

Date:
We, ............................... [insert name of Receiving Clearing Member] (the “Receiving Clearing
Member”) have received a request from ................ ...................................................... [insert name of
transferring Client] (the “Client”) to transfer its entire portfolio of Client Cleared Transactions registered
in the relevant FCM Client Account Structure from .............. [insert name of Carrying Clearing Member]
to us. We hereby request the transfer of all Client Cleared Transactions registered in the name of the
Carrying Clearing Member on behalf of the relevant Client pursuant to Article 6.3.2.1 of the CDS
Clearing Rule Book (as applicable) and the Procedures.
Please insert:
Name of Carrying Clearing Member:
.....................................................................................................................
in order to enable LCH.Clearnet SA to identify the Client Cleared Transactions that are to be
transferred.
Please tick the relevant box below to confirm whether the Client wishes to transfer the Client Assets
in accordance with Article 6.3.2.1 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book (as applicable).
The Client wishes to transfer Client Assets
The Client does NOT wish to transfer Client Assets

Signatories for and on behalf of the Receiving Clearing Member:
We acknowledge and confirm the above and are authorised to sign for and on behalf of the Receiving Clearing
Member
1.
(Authorised Signatory)

Name

Position

date

(Authorised Signatory)

Name

Position

date

2.

Signatories for and on behalf of the transferring Client:
To: Receiving Clearing Member
We acknowledge and confirm:

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

53

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

viii.
the request to transfer as detailed herein;
ix.
that our Carrying Clearing Member shall not be permitted to register additional Cleared
Transactions on our behalf during the period commencing at the end of the CDS Clearing Services
operating hours on the day on which it received notice that a FCM Client Full Transfer Form has been
received and ending at the time at which the relevant transfer (including the transfer of the relevant Client
Assets, if applicable) is actually effected or is rejected;
x.
that LCH.Clearnet SA will contact our Carrying Clearing Member in relation to this transfer and
will disclose our identity to such Carrying Clearing Member;
xi.
that, in accordance with LCH.Clearnet SA’s CDS Clearing Rule Book, LCH.Clearnet SA is entitled
to rely conclusively on the instructions and information received from the Receiving Clearing Member
and the Carrying Clearing Member and shall have no liability or responsibility therefore;
xii.
that the transfer detailed above may require that additional Collateral be provided to
LCH.Clearnet SA to satisfy an increased Margin Requirement (and/or by us to the Receiving Clearing
Member) even where Client Assets are transferred, and that LCH.Clearnet SA is not required to effect
the transfer if it has not received adequate Collateral in respect of the transfer or if any of the other
conditions set forth in LCH.Clearnet SA’s CDS Clearing Rule Book applicable to the transfer are
unsatisfied;
xiii.
that, where we have requested the transfer of Client Assets, (x) we should contact our Carrying
Clearing Member to ensure that they contact LCH.Clearnet SA to identify the correct Client Assets
available for transfer, and (y) where our Carrying Clearing Member does not so identify the correct Client
Assets available for transfer, LCH.Clearnet SA is permitted to transfer alternative Collateral as it deems
appropriate in accordance with LCH.Clearnet SA’s CDS Clearing Rule Book;
xiv.
that we are authorised to make these acknowledgements and confirmations and do so on behalf
of the Client listed above in accordance with the Section 6.3.2 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book.

For and on behalf of the Client:

Authorised signatory

Authorised signatory

Date

Date

All forms should be returned to LCH.Clearnet SA for the attention of CDSClear Operations department.
Email: CDSClear.ops@LCHClearnet.com
Telephone: + 33 1 70 37 42 24
LCH.Clearnet SA - CDSClear Operations
department
18, rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

54

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

APPENDIX 3
PART A: CCM CLIENT TRANSFER – CARRYING CLEARING MEMBER RESPONSE
FORM

CCM CLIENT TRANSFER – CARRYING
CLEARING MEMBER RESPONSE FORM
[V[ ] : [ ]
Terms used in this form are as defined in LCH.Clearnet SA's CDS Clearing Rule Book unless defined herein

To:

LCH.Clearnet SA

From:

Carrying Clearing Member

Date:
We, ............................... [insert name of Carrying Clearing Member] (the “Carrying Clearing Member”) have
received a request from LCH.Clearnet SA in relation to ...................................................................’s [insert
name of transferring Client or Clients] [(the “Client”)]/[(the “Clients”)]* request to transfer [[its entire]/[part of
its/their]*] portfolio of Client Cleared Transactions registered in the relevant CCM Client Account Structure held
by us. We are writing to inform you that:
* Delete as appropriate

(Please tick if applicable)

(Please tick if applicable)

(Please tick if applicable)

[The]/[A]* transferring Client has become insolvent and no Client Cleared
Transactions should therefore be transferred in accordance with Articles
5.3.2.1, 5.3.2.2, 5.3.2.3, 5.3.2.4, 5.3.3.1, 5.3.3.2, 5.3.3.3 or 5.3.3.4 of the
CDS Clearing Rule Book as applicable.
If the transferring Client requests to transfer the entire, or a part of, the
portfolio of Client Cleared Transactions registered in the relevant CCM
Indirect Segregated Account Structure, one or more relevant CCM Indirect
Clients have become insolvent and no relevant Client Cleared Transactions
should therefore be transferred in accordance with Articles 5.3.2.1 or 5.3.3.1
of the CDS Clearing Rule Book as applicable.
[The]/[A]* transferring Client has, or would have as a consequence of the
occurrence of the requested transfer, unsatisfied requirements which
LCH.Clearnet SA’s CDS Clearing Rule Book states must be satisfied in order
for the transfer to be effected as between itself and us at the time of, or
arising as a result of, such transfer, including, without limitation, outstanding
obligations as described in Articles 5.3.2.1(vii), 5.3.2.2(vi), 5.3.2.3(vi),
5.3.2.4(vi), 5.3.3.1(vi), 5.3.3.2(v), 5.3.3.3(v) or 5.3.3.4(v) of the CDS
Clearing Rule Book (as applicable) and therefore no Client Cleared
Transactions should not be transferred.
[This paragraph below is only relevant where the CCM Client is a CCM Gross
Omnibus Single Sub-Account Client and has requested the transfer of its
entire portfolio of Client Clearing Transactions – if this is not the case, please
delete this paragraph]

(Please tick if applicable)

The transferring Client has requested that Client Assets be transferred and
the relevant Client Assets are described in the schedule below.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

55

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

[This paragraph below is only relevant where the CCM Clients are all CCM
Gross Omnibus Multi Sub-Account Clients within the same CCM Omnibus
Gross Multi Sub-Account Client Set and have requested the transfer of all of
their Client Cleared Transactions – if this is not the case, please delete this
paragraph]

(Please tick if applicable)

All of the transferring Clients have requested that Client Assets be
transferred and the relevant Client Assets are described in the schedule
below.
* Delete as appropriate

[Schedule of Client Assets:]*

(Please tick if
applicable)

The Client Assets of the Client[s] consist solely of cash in the following amount and
currency:

CASH AMOUNT & CURRENCY

(Please tick if
applicable)

The Client Assets of the Client[s] consist of the following cash and non-cash collateral:

CASH AMOUNT & CURRENCY

ISIN

Notional Value

* Please delete this Schedule if no Client Asset is to be transferred.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

56

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

All forms should be returned to LCH.Clearnet SA for the attention of the CDSClear Operations department.
Email: CDSClear.ops@LCHClearnet.com
Telephone: + 33 1 70 37 42 24
LCH.Clearnet SA - CDSClear Operations
department
18, rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris

Signatories for and on behalf of the Carrying Clearing Member:
We acknowledge and confirm the above and that we are authorised to sign for and on behalf of the Carrying
Clearing Member:
1.
(Authorised Signatory)

Name

Position

Date

(Authorised Signatory)

Name

Position

Date

2.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

57

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

PART B : FCM CLIENT TRANSFER – CARRYING CLEARING MEMBER RESPONSE
FORM

FCM CLIENT TRANSFER – CARRYING
CLEARING MEMBER RESPONSE FORM
[V[ ] : [ ]
Terms used in this form are as defined in LCH.Clearnet SA's CDS Clearing Rule Book unless defined herein

To:

LCH.Clearnet SA

From:

Carrying Clearing Member

Date:
We, ................................................... [insert name of Carrying Clearing Member] (the “Carrying Clearing
Member”)
have
received
a
request
from
LCH.Clearnet
SA
in
relation
to ...................................................................’s [insert name of transferring Client] (the “Client”) request to
transfer [[its entire]/[part of its]*] portfolio of Client Cleared Transactions registered in the relevant FCM Client
Account Structure held by us. We are writing to inform you that:
* Delete as appropriate

(Please tick if applicable)

(Please tick if applicable)

The transferring FCM Client has become insolvent and no Client Cleared
Transactions should therefore be transferred in accordance with Articles
6.3.2.1 or 6.3.3.1 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book as applicable.
The transferring Client has requested that Client Assets be transferred and
the relevant Client Assets are described in the schedule below.

Schedule of Client Assets:

(Please tick if
applicable)

The Client Assets of the FCM Client consist solely of cash in the following amount and
currency:

CASH AMOUNT & CURRENCY

(Please tick if
applicable)

The Client Assets of the FCM Client consist of the following cash and non-cash collateral:

CASH AMOUNT & CURRENCY

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

58

Published on 14 April 2016

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Clearing Operations

ISIN

Notional Value

All forms should be returned to LCH.Clearnet SA for the attention of the CDSClear Operations department.
Email: CDSClear.ops@LCHClearnet.com
Telephone: + 33 1 70 37 42 24
LCH.Clearnet SA - CDSClear Operations
department
18, rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris

Signatories for and on behalf of the Carrying Clearing Member:
We acknowledge and confirm the above and that we are authorised to sign for and on behalf of the Carrying
Clearing Member:
1.
(Authorised Signatory)

Name

Position

Date

(Authorised Signatory)

Name

Position

Date

2.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2016

59

Published on 14 April 2016

EXHIBIT E-6.6

LCH.Clearnet SA
CDS Clearing Procedures
Section 6 – CDS Default Fund
16 December 2014

CDS Clearing Procedures

Contents
CONTENTS

SECTION 6 – CDS DEFAULT FUND

6.1 SCOPE ………………………………………………………………………………………1
6.2 COLLATERAL PAYMENT ARRANGEMENT............................................................. 1
6.3 ELIGIBLE CURRENCIES .......................................................................................... 1
6.4 CALCULATION OF THE CDS DEFAULT FUND AMOUNT ....................................... 1
6.5 CALCULATION OF A CLEARING MEMBER’S CONTRIBUTION.............................. 1
6.6 ADDITIONAL CONTRIBUTION AMOUNT ................................................................. 1
6.7 CDS DEFAULT FUND FLOOR.................................................................................. 2
6.8 CAPPING OF THE CDS DEFAULT FUND ................................................................ 2
6.9 RETURN OF CASH COLLATERAL ........................................................................... 2

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2014

ii

Published on 16 December 2014

CDS Clearing Procedures

6.1

CDS Default Fund

SCOPE
This Section 6 of the Procedures sets out the method for calculating the size of the
CDS Default Fund and certain related matters.

6.2

COLLATERAL PAYMENT ARRANGEMENT
A Clearing Member’s Contribution must be made by way of Cash Collateral.
For further details about the transfer of Cash Collateral, please refer to Section 3 of
the Procedures.

6.3

ELIGIBLE CURRENCIES
Cash Collateral transferred to satisfy a Clearing Member’s Contribution Requirement
must be made in an Eligible Currency.
For a list of Eligible Currencies please refer to Section 3 of the Procedures.

6.4

CALCULATION OF THE CDS DEFAULT FUND AMOUNT
The size of the CDS Default Fund is equal to the Combined Unmargined Risk.

where UR stands for the Member Uncovered Risk.
The Member Uncovered Risk covers the Margin Account Uncovered Risks with
respect to the Clearing Member’s Margin Accounts. It is computed on a daily basis
for each stress-test scenario.
The Margin Account Uncovered Risk and the Member Uncovered Risk are calculated
in accordance with the methodology established by LCH.Clearnet SA after
consultation with the Risk Committee. The parameters used to calculate the Member
Uncovered Risk and the Margin Account Uncovered Risk and the funded
contributions are set out in a Clearing Notice and published on the Website.
6.5

CALCULATION OF A CLEARING MEMBER’S CONTRIBUTION
Article 4.4.1.3 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book sets out the method by which a
Clearing Member’s Contribution shall be calculated.

6.6

ADDITIONAL CONTRIBUTION AMOUNT
This Paragraph 6.6 applies if, in accordance with Article 4.4.1.4 of the CDS Clearing
Rule Book, LCH.Clearnet SA calls on Clearing Members to make an Additional
Contribution Amount.
Each Clearing Member shall pay the Additional Contribution Amount with Eurodenominated Cash Collateral.
If notified on or before 14:00, each Clearing Member shall pay the Additional
Contribution Amount to LCH.Clearnet SA by 09:00 on the next TARGET2 open day.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2014

1

Published on 16 December 2014

CDS Clearing Procedures

CDS Default Fund

However, if Competitive Bidding has been conducted in accordance with the CDS
Default Management Process and LCH.Clearnet SA is due to register Transfer
Positions on the following calendar day, then LCH.Clearnet SA may, through
TARGET2, request that each Clearing Member pay its Additional Contribution
Amount:
(a)

where the request for an Additional Contribution Amount was sent by
LCH.Clearnet SA on or before 14:00 – by 15:55 on the same day; or

(b)

where the request for an Additional Contribution Amount was sent by
LCH.Clearnet SA after 14:00 – by 09:00 on the next TARGET2 open day.

LCH.Clearnet SA will provide Clearing Members with as much notice as is
reasonably practicable of its intention to call for payment of the Additional
Contribution Amount. Notice will be given by publication of the AC0102E and
AC0103E Treasury Reports through any reporting mechanism specified in a Clearing
Notice and by telephone call to the telephone number notified to LCH.Clearnet SA as
part of the relevant Clearing Member's admission application.
6.7

CDS DEFAULT FUND FLOOR
The floor to the CDS Default Fund is EUR 100 million.

6.8

CAPPING OF THE CDS DEFAULT FUND
The CDS Default Fund is not capped at a specific amount.

6.9

RETURN OF CASH COLLATERAL
For the conditions and timetable for the return of Cash Collateral by LCH.Clearnet SA
please refer to Section 3 of the Procedures.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2014

2

Published on 16 December 2014

EXHIBIT E-6.7

LCH.Clearnet SA
CDS Clearing Procedures
Section 7 – Business Continuity
16 December 2014

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2013

CDS Clearing Procedures

Business Continuity

CONTENTS

SECTION 7 - BUSINESS CONTINUITY

7.1

INTRODUCTION ....................................................................................................... 1

7.2

SCOPE...................................................................................................................... 1

7.3

LIMITS....................................................................................................................... 1

7.4

BUSINESS CONTINUITY EVENTS AFFECTING A CLEARING MEMBER ............... 1

7.5

FORCE MAJEURE EVENT AFFECTING LCH.CLEARNET SA – HQ ISSUE
(INACCESSIBILITY/EVACUATION AND RELOCATION).......................................... 4

7.6

FORCE MAJEURE EVENT AFFECTING LCH.CLEARNET SA – PRIMARY DATA
CENTRE FAILURE.................................................................................................... 5

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2014

2

Published on 16 December 2014

CDS Clearing Procedures

7.1

Business Continuity

INTRODUCTION
The Procedures set out in this section are intended to provide Clearing Members with
a guide to the possible steps that can be taken in the event of a Force Majeure Event
affecting LCH.Clearnet SA or a Clearing Member, for the avoidance of doubt, subject
always to Article 1.2.11.2 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book.
Due to the unpredictable nature of a Force Majeure Event, LCH.Clearnet SA
reserves the right at its sole discretion and without consulting with the Clearing
Members to depart from this Section 7 of the Procedures to meet the requirements of
the specific situation, provided that, for the avoidance of doubt, LCH.Clearnet SA
shall, in all cases, act in accordance with Article 1.2.11.2 of the CDS Clearing Rule
Book.

7.2

SCOPE
The scope of this Section 7 of the Procedures covers:
(a)

(b)

7.3

Force Majeure Event affecting a Clearing Member:
(i)

during office hours; and

(ii)

outside office hours.

Force Majeure Event affecting LCH.Clearnet SA where the:
(i)

headquarters (“HQ”) is unavailable or inaccessible; and

(ii)

primary data centre fails.

LIMITS
Where a Clearing Member is affected by a Force Majeure Event, LCH.Clearnet SA
will provide assistance purely on a “reasonable endeavours” basis and will be under
no obligation to assist in anyway it considers being detrimental to its business or the
CDS Clearing Service.

7.4

BUSINESS CONTINUITY EVENTS AFFECTING A CLEARING MEMBER
(a)

During office hours (07:00-20:00 CET)
In case of a Force Majeure Event affecting the continuity of its activities, a
Clearing Member should contact LCH.Clearnet SA as soon as reasonably
practicable:
Initial Contact

Customer technical helpdesk (“CTH”)

+33 1 70 37 66 00
Lchclearnetsa_CTH@lchclearnet.com

Additional contacts

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2014

1

Published on 16 December 2014

CDS Clearing Procedures

Business Continuity

Account manager

firstname.name@Lchclearnet.com

Operations team (“OPS”)

LCHClearnetSA_DO_CDS@Lchclearnet.com

Business continuity team (“BCS”)

ALL_SA_BCS@Lchclearnet.com

The Clearing Member must provide LCH.Clearnet SA with the following
information:
Clearing Member identification
(i)

company name;

(ii)

Clearing Member code;

(iii)

location (HQ or data centre and country);

(iv)

caller name; and

(v)

caller email address.

Clearing Member issue description
(i)

details of the nature of the Force Majeure Event;

(ii)

expected time to resolve or mitigate the Force Majeure Event; and

(iii)

whether any assistance is requested from LCH.Clearnet SA.

Process
As soon as the Clearing Member informs LCH.Clearnet SA about a Force
Majeure Event, LCH.Clearnet SA will organise the following assistance if it
deems it appropriate:
(i)

CTH will reply to the Clearing Member; and

(ii)

CTH, depending of the nature of the Force Majeure Event will
organise a conference call with:
(A)

Clearing Member representatives;

(B)

LCH.Clearnet SA operational departments (OPS, Risk and
Treasury); and

(C)

depending on the type of problem other relevant LCH.Clearnet
SA departments, for example, IT.

Resolution
As soon as the Force Majeure Event has been resolved, the Clearing
Member must inform LCH.Clearnet SA through the CTH.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2014

2

Published on 16 December 2014

CDS Clearing Procedures

(b)

Business Continuity

Outside office hours
In case of a Force Majeure Event affecting the continuity of its activities, the
Clearing Member should contact LCH.Clearnet SA as soon as reasonably
practicable:
Initial contact
Business continuity team (“BCS”)

+33 1 70 37 66 62

ALL_SA_BCS@Lchclearnet.com
The Clearing Member must provide LCH.Clearnet SA with the following
information:
Clearing Member identification
(i)

company name;

(ii)

Clearing Member code;

(iii)

location (HQ or data centre and country);

(iv)

caller name; and

(v)

caller email address.

Clearing Member issue description
(i)

details of the nature of the Force Majeure Event;

(ii)

expected time to resolve or mitigate the Force Majeure Event; and

(iii)

whether any assistance is requested from LCH.Clearnet SA.

Process
As soon as the Clearing Member informs LCH.Clearnet SA about a Force
Majeure Event, LCH.Clearnet SA will organise the following assistance if it
deems it appropriate:
(i)

(ii)

BCS will depending of the nature of the Force Majeure Event organise
a conference call with:
(A)

Clearing Member representatives; and

(B)

depending on the type of problem the relevant LCH.Clearnet
SA departments, for example, OPS, Risk and Treasury.

BCS will notify relevant information to the CTH.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2014

3

Published on 16 December 2014

CDS Clearing Procedures

Business Continuity

Resolution
As soon as the Force Majeure Event has been resolved, the Clearing
Member must inform LCH.Clearnet SA through the CTH.
7.5

FORCE MAJEURE EVENT AFFECTING LCH.CLEARNET SA – HQ ISSUE
(INACCESSIBILITY/EVACUATION AND RELOCATION)
(a)

Business continuity plan principles
LCH.Clearnet SA has organised a dedicated secondary office to be used
where the LCH.Clearnet SA HQ is unavailable. The agreement between
LCH.Clearnet SA and the secondary office provider stipulates that dedicated
work areas will be available immediately.
If LCH.Clearnet SA has to relocate to the secondary office, the secondary
office will be fully operational within four hours of the decision to move to it.
If, due to the nature of the Force Majeure Event, LCH.Clearnet SA is required
to interrupt the CDS Clearing Service such interruption should not be for
longer than one hour.
LCH.Clearnet SA can, depending on the type of Force Majeure Event, run the
CDS Clearing Service jointly from both HQ and the secondary office or just
from the secondary office.

(b)

Communication
LCH.Clearnet SA will notify Clearing Members of the following:
(i)

the decision to relocate;

(ii)

the change to any telephone or fax numbers;

(iii)

confirmation of whether all operations will be continuing during the
relocation or not; and

(iv)

if required, any: amendments to delivery procedures; extensions to
deadlines for the use of options, registration of contracts and/or
delivery of reports; and/or amendments or suspension of certain
Treasury processes,

by the following methods:
(A)

Website;

(B)

email to each Clearing Member at the email address
previously notified to LCH.Clearnet SA; and

(C)

telephone calls to each Clearing Member at the telephone
number previously notified to LCH.Clearnet SA.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2014

4

Published on 16 December 2014

CDS Clearing Procedures

(c)

Business Continuity

Resolution
As soon as the Force Majeure Event has been resolved, LCH.Clearnet SA
will inform all Clearing Members through the Website and by email to the
email address notified by the relevant Clearing Member as part of their
admission application. This may include notification that the address,
telephone numbers and fax numbers have permanently changed.

7.6

FORCE MAJEURE EVENT AFFECTING LCH.CLEARNET SA – PRIMARY DATA
CENTRE FAILURE
(a)

Data replication principles
LCH.Clearnet SA has in place a fully synchronised primary and secondary
data centre. This means that data is stored at data centres immediately on a
real time basis. The two data centres are run independently of each other.
Accordingly the failure of one data centre should not impact the other.
The maximum time to switch from the primary to the secondary data centre is
two hours. During the switch from the primary to the secondary data centre
the CDS Clearing Service will not be operational.
Due to the fully synchronised nature of the primary and secondary data
centres there will be no impact on the Website, access to any mean specified
in a Clearing Notice, and no data will be lost.

(b)

Communication
LCH.Clearnet SA will notify Clearing Members that the decision has been
made to switch to the secondary data centre and what the impacts will be in
relation to:
(i)

if required, any: amendments to delivery procedures; extensions to
deadlines for the use of options, registration of contracts and/or
delivery of reports; and/or amendments or suspension of certain
Treasury processes;

(ii)

the expected time resumption of the normal CDS Clearing Service will
be; and

(iii)

the order in which the CDS Clearing Service systems will be
transferred to the secondary data centre and available to be used by a
Clearing Member,

by the following methods:
(A)

Website;

(B)

email to each Clearing Member at the email address
previously notified to LCH.Clearnet SA; and

(C)

telephone calls to each Clearing Member at the telephone
number previously notified to LCH.Clearnet SA.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2014

5

Published on 16 December 2014

CDS Clearing Procedures

(c)

Business Continuity

Resolution
As soon as the Force Majeure Event has been resolved, LCH.Clearnet SA
will inform all Clearing Members through the Website and by email to the
email address notified by the relevant Clearing Member as part of their
admission application.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2014

6

Published on 16 December 2014

EXHIBIT E-6.8

LCH.Clearnet SA
CDS Clearing Procedures
Section 8: Disciplinary Proceedings
09.05.2012

CDS Clearing Procedures

Section 8 – Disciplinary Proceedings

SECTION 8 – DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS

CONTENTS

8.1

SCOPE OF THIS PROCEDURE .................................................................... 1

8.2

INVESTIGATION PROCEDURE .................................................................... 1

8.3

SUMMARY INVESTIGATION PROCEDURE................................................. 7

8.4

SANCTIONS .................................................................................................. 8

8.5

DISPUTING A DECISION .............................................................................. 8

8.6

REPORTING AND PUBLICATION ................................................................ 8

8.7

INFRINGEMENT OF APPLICABLE LAW....................................................... 9

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2012

i

Published on 9 May 2012

CDS Clearing Procedures

SECTION 8
8.1

Section 8 – Disciplinary Proceedings

Disciplinary Proceedings

SCOPE OF THIS PROCEDURE
All Clearing Members are subject to Disciplinary Proceedings pursuant to Section 8
of these Procedures (the “Disciplinary Procedures”).
Any alleged breach by a Clearing Member of an obligation set out in the CDS
Clearing Rules (the “Alleged Breach”) is eligible to be dealt with in accordance with
the provisions of these Disciplinary Procedures, provided that LCH.Clearnet SA shall
not be permitted to invoke these Disciplinary Procedures where action has already
been commenced or concluded in respect of the same Alleged Breach pursuant to
the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol.
Once these Disciplinary Proceedings have been invoked by LCH.Clearnet SA,
LCH.Clearnet SA shall be prohibited from commencing concurrent action under the
CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol in respect of the same Alleged Breach, subject to
its rights pursuant to sub-paragraph (c) below.
These Disciplinary Procedures are without prejudice to:

8.2

(a)

any action and/or measures that may be taken by LCH.Clearnet SA based on
any other procedure set out in the CDS Clearing Rules (including, without
limitation, the right of LCH.Clearnet SA to suspend or terminate a Clearing
Member's membership of the CDS Clearing Service pursuant to Section 2.4.1
or Section 2.4.2 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, and the right of
LCH.Clearnet SA to determine that an Event constitutes an Event of Default
pursuant to Section 4.3.1 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book and to take any
measure pursuant to Section 4.3.2 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book);

(b)

LCH.Clearnet SA’s right to take no action
disproportionate or otherwise, in its discretion;

(c)

LCH.Clearnet SA’s right to commence action in accordance with the CDS
Dispute Resolution Protocol in respect of the Alleged Breach, subsequent to
the conclusion of these Disciplinary Procedures, save that LCH.Clearnet SA’s
rights in this circumstance shall be limited to pursuing recovery of Damage,
incurred by LCH.Clearnet SA, that has not otherwise been recovered
pursuant to these Disciplinary Procedures and/or the CDS Clearing Rules and
no such action shall be permitted where LCH.Clearnet SA decides not to take
any action, or impose any sanction, against the Clearing Member; and

(d)

any provision of Applicable Law concerning enforcement by the Competent
Authority or Regulatory Body.

where

it

considers

it

INVESTIGATION PROCEDURE
Subject to the provisions of Paragraph 8.3, the investigation of an Alleged Breach
pursuant to these Disciplinary Proceedings shall be handled in accordance with this
Paragraph 8.2.
(a)

Opening of the investigation procedure
When LCH.Clearnet SA commences proceedings to investigate an Alleged
Breach:

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2012

1

Published on 9 May 2012

CDS Clearing Procedures

Section 8 – Disciplinary Proceedings

(i)

LCH.Clearnet SA shall send a written notice to the Clearing Member,
setting out details of the Alleged Breach, including a summary of the
facts relied on in sufficient detail for a reasonable person in the
Clearing Member’s position to properly understand and respond to the
allegations made against it;

(ii)

LCH.Clearnet SA shall identify a suitably senior representative of any
entity of the LCH.Clearnet group organisation that shall lead the
investigation procedure on behalf of LCH.Clearnet SA and shall inform
the Clearing Member who this representative will be in the written
notice which is sent in accordance with sub-paragraph (i) above;

(iii)

Following receipt of the written notice sent in accordance with subparagraph (i) above, the Clearing Member shall be permitted to raise
any objections to the identity of the representative that is to lead the
investigation procedure, on grounds of conflicts of interest, within 48
hours. Where an objection is raised, either the Chief Executive Officer
of LCH.Clearnet SA or the CDSClear Chief Executive Officer shall
discuss the perceived conflict of interest with the Clearing Member
within 24 hours and shall make a decision on whether an alternative
representative needs to be identified for the purposes of subparagraph (ii) above;

(iv)

the Clearing Member shall be required to provide any information,
copies or records and documents that may be reasonably requested,
in connection with the examination of the Alleged Breach, to
LCH.Clearnet SA, save that the Clearing Member shall not be
compelled to disclose any information which it is prohibited from
disclosing by virtue of Applicable Law or regulation (if and to the
extent that the Clearing Member provides LCH.Clearnet SA with duly
documented proof of this prohibition), as a result of legal professional
privilege or as a result of agreements signed with third parties;

(v)

LCH.Clearnet SA may send a representative (being either the
representative identified as leading the investigation procedure on
behalf of LCH.Clearnet SA or another representative) to the Clearing
Member’s offices at any time during normal business hours, having
provided reasonable notice (being proportionate to the seriousness of
the Alleged Breach) to the Clearing Member as part of the
investigation procedure. The Clearing Member shall only be entitled to
refuse access to such representative in the event of a substantiated
conflict of interest. The Clearing Member shall make available all
information, records, and documents kept by the Clearing Member,
that may be reasonably required for the examination of the Alleged
Breach, to LCH.Clearnet SA’s representative;

(vi)

the Clearing Member shall exercise best endeavours to procure the
attendance of any of its directors, officers, employees, agents and
representatives, as may be reasonably requested, at a specified time
on reasonable notice (at either the offices of LCH.Clearnet SA or
those of the Clearing Member) in order to answer questions or provide
explanations that may be relevant for the examination of the Alleged
Breach; and

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2012

2

Published on 9 May 2012

CDS Clearing Procedures
(vii)

(b)

Section 8 – Disciplinary Proceedings

the Clearing Member shall not be permitted to commence action
pursuant to the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol in respect of the
same Alleged Breach until a decision has been made by
LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Paragraph 8.4 below.

Confidentiality
LCH.Clearnet SA and each of its employees, officers or representatives shall
hold any information obtained in the course of the investigation procedure set
out in Paragraph 8.2(a) in accordance with the provisions of Section 1.2.12 of
the CDS Clearing Rule Book.

(c)

Report
Following the conclusion of the investigation procedure, LCH.Clearnet SA
shall: (i) notify the Clearing Member; and (ii) produce a written report (the
“Report”) in relation to the Alleged Breach and provide it to the Clearing
Member, within no more than 14 days as from the notification by
LCH.Clearnet SA of the conclusion of the investigation procedure.
The Report shall contain the findings of the investigation, reference the CDS
Clearing Rule allegedly breached by the relevant Clearing Member and
indicate LCH.Clearnet SA’s intended course of action in relation to the
Alleged Breach, being either:

(d)

(i)

to proceed with Disciplinary Proceedings, in accordance with these
Disciplinary Procedures, if LCH.Clearnet SA believes there to be
prima facie evidence of the Alleged Breach having been committed;

(ii)

to discontinue these Disciplinary Proceedings and refer the matter to
the Chief Executive Officer of LCH.Clearnet SA to take action in
accordance with the provisions of the CDS Clearing Rules and/or the
CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol if LCH.Clearnet SA believes there to
be prima facie evidence of the Alleged Breach having been committed
but the sanctions set out in Paragraph 8.4 of these Disciplinary
Procedures are, in LCH.Clearnet SA’s reasonable opinion,
inadequate; or

(iii)

to take no further action.

Disciplinary Committee formation
Where LCH.Clearnet SA determines that it wishes to proceed with
Disciplinary Proceedings in accordance with Paragraph 8.2(c)(i) above, it will
convene a “Disciplinary Committee” consisting of:
(i)

Two of: (a) the Chief Executive Officer of LCH.Clearnet SA; (b) the
CDSClear Chief Executive Officer (or another member of the CDS
Business Unit having suitable seniority); and (c) a member of the
executive committee of any entity of the LCH.Clearnet group
organisation (the “Comex”) who is not one of the above listed people;

(ii)

a representative of LCH.Clearnet SA's risk, membership or legal
department (depending upon the character of the Alleged Breach);
and

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2012

3

Published on 9 May 2012

CDS Clearing Procedures
(iii)

Section 8 – Disciplinary Proceedings

two independent representatives (who shall not be employees or
directors of LCH.Clearnet SA and/or the Clearing Member that is
subject to the Disciplinary Proceedings or its affiliate(s)), drawn from
market participants, experts, lawyers or other persons having suitable
experience, appointed in LCH.Clearnet SA’s discretion and one of
these two persons being designated by LCH.Clearnet SA as chairman
of the Disciplinary Committee (the "Chairman").

Details of the precise composition of the Disciplinary Committee shall be
provided to the Clearing Member as part of the Report, as appropriate.
(e)

Clearing Member Response
The Clearing Member shall respond to the Disciplinary Committee, within 14
days of receiving a Report which indicates that LCH.Clearnet SA intends to
proceed with Disciplinary Proceedings, providing a statement of defence
responding to the allegations.
If no response has been received by the Disciplinary Committee within 14
days or such extended period as has been agreed between the Clearing
Member and the Disciplinary Committee, LCH.Clearnet SA shall be relieved
of its obligations to follow the remaining steps of the investigation procedure
(as set out in Paragraph 8.2(f) below) and the Disciplinary Committee may
instead make a determination in respect of the Alleged Breach and issue its
Recommendation to LCH.Clearnet SA as provided for in Paragraphs 8.2(g)
and 8.2(h) below.

(f)

Exploratory meetings
Once the Clearing Member has responded to the Report, either the Clearing
Member or the Disciplinary Committee can, within 7 days, request a meeting
with the other party to ask further questions and discuss the Alleged Breach
(the “Meeting”).
Unless otherwise agreed between the Clearing Member and the Disciplinary
Committee, the Meeting will be held at LCH.Clearnet SA’s offices within 14
days from the request for a Meeting.
The Disciplinary Committee and the relevant Clearing Member are each
entitled to bring to the Meeting any person relevant to the Disciplinary
Proceedings which includes but is not limited to the following:
(i)

relevant experts;

(ii)

legal advisors; and

(iii)

accounting advisors.

LCH.Clearnet SA and/or the Clearing Member shall only be entitled to object
to the attendance by any of the above if there is a substantiated conflict of
interest.
The Disciplinary Committee shall, in addition, invite the LCH.Clearnet SA
representative that led the investigation procedure to attend the Meeting.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2012

4

Published on 9 May 2012

CDS Clearing Procedures

Section 8 – Disciplinary Proceedings

The Disciplinary Committee shall, subject to the provisions of these
Disciplinary Proceedings, decide upon its own procedure for conducting the
Meeting and considering and determining the matters to be discussed in the
course of the Meeting, on the basis of the Report, the Clearing Member’s
response to the Report, and such other information and documentation as the
Disciplinary Committee considers appropriate.
The Disciplinary Committee may reasonably request further or other
documentation and information from the Clearing Member, save that the
Clearing Member shall not be compelled to disclose any information which it
is prohibited from disclosing by virtue of Applicable Law or regulation (if and
to the extent that the Clearing Member provides LCH.Clearnet SA with duly
documented proof of this prohibition), as a result of legal professional
privilege or as a result of agreements signed with third parties.
The matters discussed at the Meeting are confidential. The Disciplinary
Committee and the Clearing Member must ensure that any persons attending
the Meeting are subject to a confidentiality agreement. Such confidentiality
agreement shall include provisions equivalent to those contained in Section
1.2.12 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book.
To ensure the efficiency of the Meeting, neither the Disciplinary Committee
nor the Clearing Member shall bring more than six representatives, unless
otherwise agreed.
(g)

Determination
Having considered the Report, the Clearing Member’s response to the
Report, any other information and documentation provided to the Disciplinary
Committee in accordance with Paragraph 8.2(f) above and conducted the
Meeting, the Disciplinary Committee must determine whether, in its view, the
Alleged Breach has been committed.
The Disciplinary Committee shall make its determination, in accordance with
this Paragraph 8.2(g), by a majority of the attendees, provided that no
determination shall be made without a quorum of three (3) Disciplinary
Committee members being in attendance.
In the event of a tie, the Chairman shall have a casting vote.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Disciplinary Committee shall not be bound to
comply with any rule of Applicable Law or court procedure in respect of the
admissibility of evidence and may, in its discretion, accept, any finding of fact
by:
•

a Regulatory Body;

•

a Governmental Authority;

•

the Paris courts in connection with a Dispute; or

•

the Arbitral Tribunal, where such finding was made in respect of the
Clearing Member in arbitral proceedings between LCH.Clearnet SA
and the Clearing Member in connection with a Dispute and pursuant
to the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2012

5

Published on 9 May 2012

CDS Clearing Procedures
(h)

Section 8 – Disciplinary Proceedings

Recommendation
Within 7 days of the later of:
•

the Clearing Member’s response to the Report; and

•

the date of the Meeting, if applicable,

the Disciplinary Committee shall communicate its determination, made in
accordance with Paragraph 8.2(g) above, to LCH.Clearnet SA (the
“Recommendation”).
The Disciplinary Committee shall set out in its Recommendation the grounds
on which the Disciplinary Committee has determined that the Alleged Breach
has or has not been committed and its proposal as to the sanctions, if any,
that should be imposed by LCH.Clearnet SA upon the Clearing Member
pursuant to Paragraph 8.4 of these Disciplinary Procedures.
This Paragraph 8.2(h) is without prejudice to the rights of the Disciplinary
Committee to recommend that these Disciplinary Proceedings be
discontinued and refer the matter to the Chief Executive Officer of
LCH.Clearnet SA to take action in accordance with the provisions of the CDS
Clearing Rules and/or the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol if the Disciplinary
Committee has determined that the Alleged Breach has been committed but
the sanctions set out in Paragraph 8.4 of these Disciplinary Procedures are,
in the Disciplinary Committee’s reasonable opinion, inadequate.
(i)

Decision Notice
Following receipt of a Recommendation, pursuant to Paragraph 8.2(h) above,
LCH.Clearnet SA must decide whether or not to sanction the Clearing
Member in accordance with Paragraph 8.4 of these Disciplinary Procedures
or otherwise in accordance with the provisions of the CDS Clearing Rules.
For the avoidance of doubt, LCH.Clearnet SA shall not be bound by the terms
of the Recommendation of the Disciplinary Committee.
A decision by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with this Paragraph 8.2(i) will
be made by the Chief Executive Officer of LCH.Clearnet SA or another
suitably senior executive of LCH.Clearnet SA.
Within 14 days of receiving a Recommendation, LCH.Clearnet SA must notify
the Clearing Member of its decision by registered mail to the address notified
to LCH.Clearnet SA in its admission application (the “Decision Notice”).
A Decision Notice shall include details of the grounds on which LCH.Clearnet
SA has come to its decision and the sanction(s), if any, to be imposed against
the Clearing Member by LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to Paragraph 8.4 below
or otherwise in accordance with the provisions of the CDS Clearing Rules.

(j)

Action
Notwithstanding any decision by LCH.Clearnet SA to convene a Disciplinary
Committee and proceed with Disciplinary Proceedings in accordance with

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2012

6

Published on 9 May 2012

CDS Clearing Procedures

Section 8 – Disciplinary Proceedings

Paragraphs 8.2(c) to 8.2(i) above, LCH.Clearnet SA may at any time choose
to:

8.3

•

discontinue the Disciplinary Proceedings;

•

determine that, in light of the relevant facts and circumstances, no
sanction should be imposed upon the relevant Clearing Member
pursuant to Paragraph 8.4 below or otherwise in accordance with the
provisions of the CDS Clearing Rules;

•

take alternative action in accordance with the provisions of the CDS
Clearing Rules (including, without limitation, suspension or
termination of the Clearing Member's membership of the CDS
Clearing Service pursuant to Section 2.4.1 or Section 2.4.2 of the
CDS Clearing Rule Book and/or declaration of an Event of Default in
respect of the Clearing Member pursuant to Section 4.3.1 of the CDS
Clearing Rule Book), in which case LCH.Clearnet SA shall be
deemed to have instituted Disciplinary Proceedings in respect of the
Alleged Breach for all purposes under Sections 2.4.1 or 4.3.1 of the
CDS Clearing Rule Book; or

•

amend the scope of matters being considered by the Disciplinary
Committee by amending the Report to add, delete or alter any detail
of the Alleged Breach or to add detail of an additional Alleged Breach.
For the avoidance of doubt, where the Report is amended in this way,
the provisions of this Paragraph 8.2 will apply (and, unless otherwise
agreed between the Clearing Member and the Disciplinary
Committee, any timing specified in this Paragraph 8.2 will restart) in
respect of the amended Report.

IMMEDIATE MEASURE
(a)

Application

Where:
(i) LCH.Clearnet SA is expressly instructed to do so by a Competent Authority or
Regulatory Body; or
(ii) the Alleged Breach comprises a failure to provide a complete price submission file
on a Clearing Day as part of the price submission procedure set out in Section 5 of
the Procedures,
the Chief Executive Officer of LCH.Clearnet SA or the CDSClear Chief Executive
Officer shall be entitled to impose a fine on the Clearing Member, without being
required to follow the procedure set out in Paragraph 8.2 above.
(b)

Fines

Any fine imposed by LCH.Clearnet SA:
(i) upon the express instruction of a Competent Authority or Regulatory Body in
accordance with Paragraph 8.3(a)(i), shall be for an amount of no more than EUR
500,000 and must be proportionate and commensurate with the seriousness of the
Alleged Breach; and
LCH.Clearnet SA © 2012

7

Published on 9 May 2012

CDS Clearing Procedures

Section 8 – Disciplinary Proceedings

(ii) where the Alleged Breach comprises a failure to provide a complete price
submission file on any Clearing Day as part of the price submission procedure set
out in Section 5 of the Procedures, shall be for an amount capped at the level set out
in Schedule 3 to the CDS Admission Agreement.
(c)

Decision Notice

Where LCH.Clearnet SA is instructed, or decides to, impose a fine in accordance
with this Paragraph 8.3, it must notify the Clearing Member and the fine that is to be
imposed by way of a Decision Notice.
8.4

SANCTIONS
Following the conclusion of the Investigation Procedure in accordance with
Paragraph 8.2 (and excluding, for the avoidance of doubt, where Immediate
Measures have been taken in accordance with Paragraph 8.3), LCH.Clearnet SA
shall be entitled, in its absolute discretion, to impose the following sanctions against a
Clearing Member, pursuant to these Disciplinary Procedures, provided that any such
sanction is proportionate and commensurate with the seriousness of the Alleged
Breach:

8.5

(a)

a fine (capped at a maximum amount of EUR 500,000) to be paid in
accordance with terms prescribed by LCH.Clearnet SA;

(b)

public censure, by way of publishing all or part of the decision taken by
LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to Disciplinary Proceedings on the Website;

(c)

issuance of a private warning or reprimand; and/or

(d)

any combination of the above.

DISPUTING A DECISION
Where a Clearing Member wishes to dispute LCH.Clearnet SA’s decision to impose
sanctions in accordance with Paragraphs 8.2 and/or 8.3 or the level of sanctions
imposed pursuant to Paragraph 8.4, a Clearing Member may, within 14 days (or such
longer period as the Chief Executive Officer of LCH.Clearnet SA may, at his
discretion, direct) of receiving the Decision Notice in accordance with Paragraph
8.2(g) or 8.3(c), refer the Dispute to be resolved by arbitration in accordance with the
expedited procedure set out in the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol or by litigation,
as applicable, in accordance with the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol.
It is agreed that a Clearing Member shall not be permitted to dispute the amount of a
fine imposed by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with Paragraph 8.3(b)(ii) on the
grounds that the sanction is not proportionate and commensurate with the
seriousness of the Alleged Breach.

8.6

REPORTING AND PUBLICATION
LCH.Clearnet SA shall:
(a)

report on its monitoring procedures in respect of the CDS Clearing
Documentation, compliance and breaches of the CDS Clearing
Documentation to its Competent Authorities and/or Regulatory Bodies

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2012

8

Published on 9 May 2012

CDS Clearing Procedures

Section 8 – Disciplinary Proceedings

pursuant to Applicable Law and/or on the basis of any arrangements between
LCH.Clearnet SA and any Competent Authority or Regulatory Body;

8.7

(b)

immediately notify its Competent Authority of a decision to suspend or
terminate a Clearing Member’s membership rights or declare a Clearing
Member to be subject to an Event of Default (in each case in accordance with
the CDS Clearing Rule Book); and

(c)

prepare and publish a general report on the application of these Disciplinary
Proceedings, from time to time but at least once a year, provided however
that only the details of those Clearing Members who have defaulted or whose
membership rights have been suspended or terminated by LCH.Clearnet SA
shall be disclosed.

INFRINGEMENT OF APPLICABLE LAW
If LCH.Clearnet SA finds, in the course of the investigation procedure, or otherwise,
serious indications of a possible infringement of Applicable Law, it shall report the
matter to the relevant Competent Authority or Regulatory Body as soon as possible.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2012

9

Published on 9 May 2012

EXHIBIT E-6.9

LCH.Clearnet SA
CDS Clearing Procedures
Section 9: Complaint Resolution
09.05.2012

CDS Clearing Procedures

Section 9 - Complaint Resolution

SECTION 9 - COMPLAINT RESOLUTION

CONTENTS

9.1

INTRODUCTION ....................................................................................................... 1

9.2

HOW TO MAKE A COMPLAINT................................................................................ 1

9.3

INVESTIGATION PROCEDURE ............................................................................... 2

9.4

RESULT OF THE INVESTIGATION .......................................................................... 3

9.5

DISPUTES ................................................................................................................ 3

9.6

RECORD KEEPING .................................................................................................. 3

9.7

CONFIDENTIALITY................................................................................................... 3

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2012

Published on 9 May 2012

CDS Clearing Procedures
9.1

Complaint Resolution

INTRODUCTION
This Section 9 of the Procedures describes how a Clearing Member (the
“Complainant”) who has a complaint arising in connection with the performance, or
failure to perform, by LCH.Clearnet SA of any of its regulatory functions, may make a
formal complaint in writing to LCH.Clearnet SA (a “Complaint”) and the
arrangements that are in place with regards to the investigation and resolution of
such complaints.
LCH.Clearnet SA is a clearing house within the meaning of Article L. 440-1 of the
French Monetary and Financial Code and has been notified to the European
Commission as a securities settlement system pursuant to the Settlement Finality
Directive. In accordance with the framework of its statutory and regulatory
prerogatives, LCH.Clearnet SA, amongst other matters, clears Original Transactions,
supervises the Cleared Transactions registered in the name of the Clearing
Members, calculates the associated risk, calls Margin to cover this risk, ensures the
proper settlement of the Cleared Transactions as central counterparty, and manages
the CDS Default Management Process. Any formal complaint in writing, arising in
connection with the performance or failure by LCH.Clearnet SA to fulfil any such
regulatory function, will be a Complaint for the purpose of this Section 9 of the
Procedures, save that a Complaint will not be eligible to be dealt with in accordance
with this Section 9 if:

9.2

(i)

it relates to a decision made by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance with
Section 8 of the Procedures;

(ii)

it relates to LCH.Clearnet SA’s relationship with its employees;

(iii)

it relates to the content of the CDS Clearing Documentation;

(iv)

it is in connection with a contractual or commercial dispute involving
LCH.Clearnet SA and is not connected in any way with LCH.Clearnet
SA’s regulatory functions;

(v)

it is made three (3) months after the date on which the Complainant
becomes aware or should have become aware of the circumstances
giving rise to the Complaint (unless the Complainant can evidence
reasonable grounds for the delay);

(vi)

the subject matter of the Complaint is something which has already
been referred to arbitration or litigation, as applicable in accordance
with the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol; and/or

(vii)

it amounts, in LCH.Clearnet SA’s reasonable opinion, to an abuse of
rights by the Complainant.

HOW TO MAKE A COMPLAINT
A Complaint should be made in writing, being clearly identified as a Complaint made
under Section 9 of the Procedures, dated and addressed to the Company Secretary
and sent to the following address:
Banque Centrale de Compensation (“LCH.Clearnet SA”)
18, Rue du Quatre Septembre
75002 Paris

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2012

1

Published on 9 May 2012

CDS Clearing Procedures

Complaint Resolution

Or by e-mail to: Lchclearnetsa_Info@lchclearnet.com
The Complaint should be signed on behalf of the Complainant by a director or
equivalent officer with appropriate authority.
The Complaint should include sufficient information to allow LCH.Clearnet SA to
properly identify and assess the matters to which the Complaint relates, the activities
complained of, and the basis for any alleged loss.
In the event LCH.Clearnet SA deems the provided information insufficient, it may
request further information and the Complaint may not be investigated further until
such information is received.
Upon receipt of a written Complaint (which, for the avoidance of doubt, shall include
those Complaints transmitted by email) pursuant to these Procedures, LCH.Clearnet
SA shall acknowledge receipt of the Complaint within 7 days.
The Complainant shall not be permitted to commence action pursuant to Section
1.2.15 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book concurrently with or subsequent to any
Complaint made pursuant to these Procedures in respect of the same subject matter
of the Complaint until a decision has been made by LCH.Clearnet SA in accordance
with Paragraph 9.4 below.
After receiving the Complaint, LCH.Clearnet SA will conduct an internal investigation
and review of such Complaint in accordance with the procedures set out below.
9.3

INVESTIGATION PROCEDURE
LCH.Clearnet SA will convene an “Investigation Committee” to investigate the
Complaint. The Investigation Committee will be comprised of any three of the
following persons:
(a)

the Chief Executive Officer of LCH.Clearnet SA or the CDS Business Unit
Managing Director;

(b)

the Managing Director, Operations, of LCH.Clearnet SA;

(c)

the Managing Director, Risk, of LCH.Clearnet SA; or

(d)

any suitably senior representative of LCH.Clearnet SA.

No later than 7 days from the receipt of a Complaint, LCH.Clearnet SA shall notify
the Complainant of the persons comprising the Investigation Committee.
Within 21 days of receiving any Complaint which LCH.Clearnet SA considers to be
ineligible, LCH.Clearnet SA will inform the Complainant that it proposes not to
investigate the Complaint and shall communicate the ground on which it believes
such Complaint to be ineligible, in accordance with Paragraph 9.1(i) to (vii).
LCH.Clearnet SA will deliver the Investigation Committee's report in relation to the
eligible Complaint within eight weeks from the date of acknowledgement of receipt of
the Complaint. However, where the scope of the Complaint reasonably demands
further investigation, LCH.Clearnet SA will write to the Complainant, prior to the
expiration of the eight week period, explaining why the report will not be finalised
within eight weeks from the date of acknowledgement of receipt of the Complaint,
LCH.Clearnet SA © 2012

2

Published on 9 May 2012

CDS Clearing Procedures

Complaint Resolution

and indicating when a final response is likely to be made. A final response must, in all
cases, be delivered within twelve weeks (unless otherwise agreed between
LCH.Clearnet SA and the Complainant).
If a Complaint has not been responded by LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to Paragraph
9.4 below within twelve weeks from the date of acknowledgement of receipt of the
Complaint and LCH.Clearnet SA and the Complainant have not agreed to extend the
period for investigation, the Complaint shall be referred to the Chief Executive Officer
of LCH.Clearnet SA. Following the referral to the Chief Executive Officer of
LCH.Clearnet SA, a meeting should be convened within 14 days between the
Complainant, the Chief Executive Officer of LCH.Clearnet SA and members of the
Investigations Committee, as requested by either the Complainant or
LCH.Clearnet SA, at the offices of LCH.Clearnet SA (or at the offices of the
Complainant if agreed between the parties). The purpose of such meeting shall be
for LCH.Clearnet SA to agree and communicate the outcome of the investigation to
the Complainant, together with any proposed remedial action.
LCH.Clearnet SA may at any time obtain professional advice as appropriate.
The costs of the internal investigation and review shall be borne by LCH.Clearnet SA.
9.4

RESULT OF THE INVESTIGATION
Once the Investigation Committee has concluded its investigation in accordance with
Paragraph 9.3, LCH.Clearnet SA will inform the Complainant of the outcome of the
investigation, together with any remedial action proposed by LCH.Clearnet SA. The
remedial action taken may include, but will not be limited to, offering an apology,
taking steps to rectify the error, the offer of a compensatory payment or a
combination of the above. If a Complaint is rejected, LCH.Clearnet SA will give its
reason for doing so.

9.5

DISPUTES
Where a Complainant disputes the outcome of the investigation and/or the remedial
actions proposed by LCH.Clearnet SA it may, within 14 days (or such longer period
as LCH.Clearnet SA may, at his discretion, direct) of receiving notice of the
Investigation Committee’s findings and/or proposed remedial measures, refer the
Dispute to be resolved by arbitration in accordance with the expedited procedure set
out in the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol.

9.6

RECORD KEEPING
A copy of all documents and materials relating to a Complaint shall be sent to
LCH.Clearnet SA. LCH.Clearnet SA will retain all documents and materials for a
minimum of three years from the conclusion of a Complaint.

9.7

CONFIDENTIALITY
LCH.Clearnet SA and the Complainant must each observe strict confidentiality in
respect of the investigation of a Complaint and shall procure that all information
provided in the course of the Complaint Resolution procedure is held in a confidential
manner in accordance with Article [8] of the CDS Admission Agreement and Section
1.2.12 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2012

3

Published on 9 May 2012

EXHIBIT E-7

LCH.Clearnet SA
FCM CDS Clearing Regulations
23.12.2013

FCM CDS Clearing Regulations
CONTENTS

FCM CDS CLEARING REGULATIONS .............................................................................. 1
Regulation 1........ Governing Law and Jurisdiction ............................................................... 3
Regulation 2........ Depository Accounts ................................................................................ 4
Regulation 3........ Collateral .................................................................................................. 5
Regulation 4........ Transfer ................................................................................................... 6
Regulation 5........ Security Interest ....................................................................................... 7
Regulation 6........ Rules Relating to FCM Cleared Swaps Client Segregated Accounts........ 8

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2013

- ii -

Published on 5 December 2013

FCM CDS Clearing Regulations
FCM CDS CLEARING REGULATIONS
Scope
FCM Clearing Members are bound by these FCM CDS Clearing Regulations and the
remainder of the CDS Clearing Documentation applicable to FCM Clearing Members, in
connection with the clearing of FCM Cleared Transactions by FCM Clearing Members
through LCH.Clearnet SA. These FCM CDS Clearing Regulations do not govern any other
clearing services provided by LCH.Clearnet SA (including, without limitation, the clearing of
CCM Cleared Transactions in respect of the CDS Clearing Service) which are governed by a
separate set of rules.
Any FCM CDS Clearing Regulation or group of FCM CDS Clearing Regulations expressly
stated not to apply to a category, or categories, of FCM Cleared Transactions shall not apply
to such category, or categories, of FCM Cleared Transactions.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2013

-1-

Published on 5 December 2013

FCM CDS Clearing Regulations
Definitions
In these FCM CDS Clearing Regulations, the CDS Clearing Rule Book (including the CDS
Default Management Process appended thereto), the Procedures and any related Clearing
Notice, except where the context otherwise requires, the following words and expressions
shall have the following meanings. All capitalised terms not otherwise defined herein have
the meanings ascribed to them in the CDS Clearing Rule Book.
FCM Cleared Swaps Client
Segregated Depository
Account

- Means an omnibus account (which will consist of one or
more accounts at one or more Permitted Depositories
which are commingled for purposes of the applicable
provisions of the CEA and CFTC Regulations)
maintained by an FCM Clearing Member for its FCM
Clients with a Permitted Depository, which is segregated
in accordance with the CEA and CFTC Regulations and
contains Collateral deposited by such FCM Clients in
connection with FCM Cleared Transactions cleared for
such FCM Clients by such FCM Clearing Member.

LCH Cleared Swaps Client
Segregated Depository
Account

- Means the omnibus account (which will consist of one or
more accounts at one or more Permitted Depositories
which are commingled for purposes of the applicable
provisions of the CEA and CFTC Regulations)
maintained by LCH.Clearnet SA for the benefit of FCM
Clients of its FCM Clearing Members with a Permitted
Depository, which is segregated in accordance with the
CEA and CFTC Regulations, is part of the cleared swaps
derivatives account class under Part 190 of the CFTC
Regulations and contains the Collateral deposited by
such FCM Clearing Members on behalf of their FCM
Clients (other than, for the avoidance of doubt, Collateral
provided to satisfy the Contribution Requirement of such
FCM Clearing Members) in connection with FCM Cleared
Transactions cleared for such FCM Clients by such FCM
Clearing Members.

LCH Cleared Swaps
Proprietary Depository
Account

- Means the account (which may consist of one or more
accounts) with a depository designated for such purpose
by LCH.Clearnet SA which contains Collateral deposited
by an FCM Clearing Member for its own account and the
account of its Affiliates (but never accounts of its FCM
Clients).

Permitted Depository

- Means “Permitted Depository” as such term is defined in
CFTC Regulations 22.1 and 22.4.

Proprietary Account

- Means, as the context requires, the House Trade
Account of an FCM Clearing Member or an FCM House
Collateral Account to which FCM Cleared Transactions
made by the FCM Clearing Member for its own account
or accounts of its Affiliates (but never accounts of its
FCM Clients) are registered and to which monies in
respect of such FCM Cleared Transactions are credited.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2013

-2-

Published on 5 December 2013

FCM CDS Clearing Regulations
Regulation 1

Governing Law and Jurisdiction

(a)

These FCM CDS Clearing Regulations shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to any conflicts
of laws principles, and the laws of the United States of America, including the CEA
and applicable bankruptcy and insolvency laws.

(b)

All Disputes arising under these FCM CDS Clearing Regulations and the
Procedures shall be referred to and resolved in accordance with the CDS Dispute
Resolution Protocol.

(c)

Notwithstanding any other provision of the CDS Clearing Rules, with respect to
any FCM Cleared Transaction involving an FCM Client cleared by an FCM
Clearing Member, such FCM Clearing Member shall act solely as agent of its FCM
Client in connection with the clearing of such FCM Cleared Transaction, provided
that such FCM Clearing Member shall remain fully liable for all obligations owed to
LCH.Clearnet SA arising in connection with such FCM Cleared Transaction.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2013

-3-

Published on 5 December 2013

FCM CDS Clearing Regulations
Regulation 2

Depository Accounts

(a)

Each FCM Clearing Member shall establish and maintain an FCM Cleared Swaps
Client Segregated Depository Account on behalf of its FCM Clients, in accordance
with applicable provisions of the CEA and CFTC regulations, including but not
limited to Part 1, Part 22 and Part 190 of the CFTC regulations, and as further set
forth in FCM CDS Clearing Regulation 6. The FCM Cleared Swaps Client
Segregated Depository Account shall be maintained with a Permitted Depository
in accordance with the CEA and CFTC Regulations and the FCM Clearing
Member may commingle assets of all of its FCM Clients in such Account in a
single omnibus account established and maintained in accordance with CFTC
Regulations. The FCM Cleared Swaps Client Segregated Depository Account
maintained by each FCM Clearing Member shall be designated as a “Cleared
Swaps Customer Account” (as that term is defined in CFTC Regulation 22.1) for
purposes of Part 22 of the CFTC regulations and Section 4d(f) of the CEA.

(b)

LCH.Clearnet SA shall establish and maintain:

(c)

(i)

an LCH Cleared Swaps Client Segregated Depository Account on
behalf of the FCM Clients of FCM Clearing Members, in accordance
with applicable provisions of the CEA and CFTC Regulations, including
but not limited to Part 1, Part 22 and Part 190 of such CFTC
Regulations; and

(ii)

an LCH Cleared Swaps Proprietary Depository Account.

The LCH Cleared Swaps Client Segregated Depository Account shall be
maintained with a Permitted Depository in accordance with the CEA and CFTC
Regulations and LCH.Clearnet SA may commingle assets of all of the FCM
Clients in such Account in a single omnibus account established and maintained
in accordance with CFTC Regulations. All Collateral deposited by FCM Clearing
Members in connection with FCM Cleared Transactions cleared on behalf of FCM
Clients (other than, for the avoidance of doubt, Collateral provided to satisfy the
Contribution Requirement of such FCM Clearing Members) shall be held in such
LCH Cleared Swaps Client Segregated Depository Account. The LCH Cleared
Swaps Client Segregated Depository Account shall be maintained by
LCH.Clearnet SA separately from any and all assets of the FCM Clearing
Members, or any other assets that LCH.Clearnet SA is holding for clients (other
than FCM Clients) and shall contain no assets other than Collateral deposited by
FCM Clearing Members in connection with the clearing of FCM Cleared
Transactions on behalf of their FCM Clients. The LCH Cleared Swaps Client
Segregated Depository Account maintained by LCH.Clearnet SA shall be
designated as a “Cleared Swaps Customer Account” for purposes of Part 22 of
the CFTC regulations and Section 4d(f) of the CEA.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2013

-4-

Published on 5 December 2013

FCM CDS Clearing Regulations
Regulation 3

Collateral

(a)

FCM Clearing Members may deposit securities or cash with LCH.Clearnet SA as
Collateral in respect of FCM Cleared Transactions cleared on behalf of FCM
Clients, in accordance with Section 4.2.3 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book and
Section 3 of the Procedures. Securities or cash deposited will be subject to a
security interest in accordance with Regulation 5 and held in an LCH Cleared
Swaps Client Segregated Depository Account.

(b)

Security Arrangements. FCM Clearing Members wishing to deposit securities or
cash with LCH.Clearnet SA as Collateral in respect of FCM Cleared Transactions
cleared on behalf of FCM Clients must do so under the security arrangements set
out in these FCM CDS Clearing Regulations.

(c)

Collateral deposited in an FCM Clearing Member’s LCH Cleared Swaps
Proprietary Depository Account may be applied by LCH.Clearnet SA towards the
payment of any sum whatsoever due by the FCM Clearing Member to
LCH.Clearnet SA. No Collateral deposited in an FCM Clearing Member’s LCH
Cleared Swaps Client Segregated Depository Account shall be applied on or in
respect of payment or satisfaction of any of the FCM Clearing Member’s liabilities
to LCH.Clearnet SA as recorded in any of the FCM Clearing Member’s Proprietary
Accounts.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2013

-5-

Published on 5 December 2013

FCM CDS Clearing Regulations

Regulation 4

Transfer

(a)

If an FCM Clearing Member is a Defaulting Clearing Member, any action taken by
LCH.Clearnet SA pursuant to the CDS Clearing Rule Book (including the CDS
Default Management Process appended thereto), including but not limited to the
disposal by LCH.Clearnet SA of FCM Cleared Transactions held on behalf of FCM
Clients of the Defaulting Clearing Member, shall be taken in compliance with the
CEA, CFTC Regulations and applicable bankruptcy laws regarding the liquidation
or transfer of FCM Cleared Transactions carried by such FCM Clearing Member
on behalf of its FCM Clients. LCH.Clearnet SA shall have no responsibility or
liability whatsoever for any action taken or not taken with respect to the accounts
and FCM Cleared Transactions of FCM Clients of the Defaulting Clearing Member
in accordance with such laws or regulations or the directions of any Regulatory
Body or bankruptcy trustee.

(b)

If and to the extent any transfer by an FCM Clearing Member of open contracts
between its Proprietary Account and accounts of its FCM Clients, and vice versa,
upon an FCM Client default, is permitted pursuant to the CDS Clearing Rule Book
(including the CDS Default Management Process appended thereto) and the
Procedures, such transfer shall be made subject to applicable provisions of the
CEA and CFTC Regulations regarding segregation of assets.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2013

-6-

Published on 5 December 2013

FCM CDS Clearing Regulations
Regulation 5

Security Interest

Each FCM Clearing Member hereby grants LCH.Clearnet SA a first security interest in and a
first priority and unencumbered first lien upon any and all cash, securities, receivables, rights
and intangibles and any other Collateral or assets deposited with or transferred to
LCH.Clearnet SA, or otherwise held by LCH.Clearnet SA (including without limitation all
property deposited in an LCH Cleared Swaps Proprietary Depository Account and in an LCH
Cleared Swaps Client Segregated Depository Account, or any amounts owing to an FCM
Clearing Member as recorded in a Proprietary Account), including all substitutions for and
proceeds of, any such property, in connection with any FCM Cleared Transaction cleared for
such FCM Clearing Member or on behalf of its FCM Clients or Affiliates, as security for
unconditional payment and satisfaction of the obligations and liabilities of the FCM Clearing
Member to LCH.Clearnet SA. The FCM Clearing Member agrees to take any and all
actions, including but not limited to the execution of any and all documents, requested by
LCH.Clearnet SA in order to perfect, maintain or enforce the security interest granted to
LCH.Clearnet SA hereunder. LCH.Clearnet SA may exercise any and all rights available to
it with respect to the security interest granted hereunder, in accordance with the FCM CDS
Clearing Regulations and applicable laws. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall
LCH.Clearnet SA’s security interest in the Collateral in an LCH Cleared Swaps Client
Segregated Depository Account held on behalf of the FCM Clearing Member’s Clients be
exercised to satisfy any obligations or liabilities of such FCM Clearing Member other than in
connection with obligations or liabilities relating to FCM Cleared Transactions cleared by
such FCM Clearing Member on behalf of its FCM Clients.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2013

-7-

Published on 5 December 2013

LCH.Clearnet SA: FCM CDS Clearing Regulations
Regulation 6

Rules Relating to FCM Cleared Swaps Client Segregated Accounts

(a)

Notice of Deficiency in FCM Cleared Swaps Client Segregated Depository Account.
Whenever an FCM Clearing Member knows or should know that the aggregate
amount of funds on deposit in its FCM Cleared Swaps Client Segregated
Depository Account is less than the total amount of such funds required by the
CEA, CFTC Regulations and/or the CDS Clearing Rule Book to be on deposit, the
FCM Clearing Member must report such deficiency immediately by telephone
notice, confirmed immediately in writing by facsimile notice, to the LCH.Clearnet
SA and the principal office of the CFTC in Washington, DC, to the attention of the
Director and the Chief Accountant of the Division of Clearing and Intermediary
Oversight, and, if the FCM Clearing Member is a securities broker or dealer, to the
Securities and Exchange Commission, in accordance with 17 C.F.R. § 240.17a11.

(b)

Segregation of Funds.
(i)

With respect to FCM Client funds deposited in connection with FCM
Cleared Transactions:
(A)

all such funds shall be separately accounted for and segregated
as belonging to FCM Clients by the FCM Clearing Member and, in
the event of an FCM Clearing Member’s bankruptcy administered
under the US bankruptcy laws, are intended to be part of a
separate account class, treated as a Cleared Swaps Account
Class;

(B)

all such funds must be held by the applicable FCM Clearing
Member or deposited with a Permitted Depository, and such funds
shall be deposited under an account name which complies with
the requirements of CFTC Regulation 22.6 and shows that they
are segregated as required by the CDS Clearing Rule Book and
Part 22 of the CFTC Regulations; and

(C)

each FCM Clearing Member shall obtain and retain in its files for
the period provided in CFTC Regulation 1.31 a written
acknowledgment, in accordance with CFTC Regulations 22.5, 1.20
and/or 1.26 (as applicable) from such Permitted Depository that it
was informed that such funds deposited in the FCM Cleared
Swaps Client Segregated Depository Account maintained by such
Permitted Depository for the FCM Clearing Member are those of
FCM Clients and are being held in accordance with the provisions
of the CEA, CFTC Regulations and the CDS Clearing Rule Book.

For the avoidance of doubt, the FCM Cleared Swaps Client Segregated
Depository Account maintained by an FCM Clearing Member shall be
treated as segregated accounts and shall be subject to the requirements
of the CEA and CFTC Regulations applicable to segregated accounts and
to this FCM Regulation 6, regardless of the location of any such account.
Without limitation of the foregoing, under no circumstances shall any
portion of FCM Client funds held in FCM Cleared Swaps Client
Segregated Depository Accounts be obligated to LCH.Clearnet SA, an
FCM Clearing Member, any Permitted Depository, or any other person
except to purchase, margin, guarantee, secure, transfer, adjust or settle

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2013

-8-

Published on 5 December 2013

LCH.Clearnet SA: FCM CDS Clearing Regulations
trades, contracts or transactions of FCM Clients. No person, including
LCH.Clearnet SA or any Permitted Depository, that has received FCM
Client funds for deposit in an FCM Cleared Swaps Client Segregated
Depository Account, as provided in this rule, may hold, dispose of, or use
any such funds as belonging to any person other than the FCM Clients of
the FCM Clearing Member which deposited such funds.
(ii)

All FCM Client funds received by LCH.Clearnet SA from an FCM
Clearing Member to purchase, margin guarantee, secure or settle FCM
Cleared Transactions cleared on behalf of FCM Clients and all money
accruing to such FCM Clients as the result of trades, contracts or
transactions so carried shall be separately accounted for and
segregated as belonging to such FCM Clients, and LCH.Clearnet SA
shall not hold, use or dispose of such FCM Client funds except as
belonging to such FCM Clients. Such FCM Client funds, when
deposited in a Permitted Depository, shall be deposited under an
account name which complies with the requirements of CFTC
Regulation 22.6 and shows that they are segregated as required by the
CEA and the CFTC Regulations. LCH.Clearnet SA shall obtain and
retain in its files for the period provided by CFTC Regulation 1.31, an
acknowledgment from such Permitted Depository that it was informed
that the funds deposited in any LCH Cleared Swaps Client Segregated
Depository Accounts maintained by LCH.Clearnet SA are those of FCM
Clients of FCM Clearing Members and are being held in accordance
with the provisions of the CEA, CFTC Regulations and the CDS
Clearing Rule Book.

(iii)

Each FCM Clearing Member shall treat and deal with FCM Client funds
as belonging to such FCM Clients. All FCM Client funds shall be
separately accounted for, and shall not be commingled with the money,
securities or property of an FCM Clearing Member or of any other
person, or be used to secure or guarantee the trades, contracts or
transactions, or to secure or extend the credit, of any person other than
the one for whom the same are held; provided, however, that FCM
Client funds of an FCM Clearing Member may for convenience be
physically commingled (although separately accounted for in
accordance with the CDS Clearing Rule Book and these FCM CDS
Clearing Regulations), subject to and in accordance with the CEA, the
CFTC Regulations and the CDS Clearing Rule Book; provided, further,
that FCM Client funds may be invested in accordance with FCM CDS
Clearing Regulation 6(g).

(iv)

In accordance with CFTC Regulation 22.15 (and subject to CFTC
Regulation 22.3(d)), LCH.Clearnet SA shall treat the value of all
collateral received on behalf of each FCM Client in connection with
FCM Cleared Transactions as belonging to each such individual FCM
Client, and such amount shall be credited to such FCM Client’s
applicable FCM Client Financial Account as provided in the CDS
Clearing Rule Book and Procedures, and shall not be used to margin,
guarantee, or secure the FCM Contracts or other obligations of the
applicable FCM Clearing Member, other FCM Clients or any other
person, except as permitted under the CDS Clearing Rule Book (and
not prohibited by the CEA or CFTC Regulations) or as permitted under
Part 22 of the CFTC Regulations.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2013

-9-

Published on 5 December 2013

LCH.Clearnet SA: FCM CDS Clearing Regulations
(c)

Care of Money and Securities Accruing to FCM Clients. All money received
directly or indirectly by, and all money and securities accruing to, an FCM Clearing
Member from LCH.Clearnet SA or from any FCM Clearing Member or from any
other person incident to or resulting from any FCM Cleared Transactions made by
or through such FCM Clearing Member on behalf of any FCM Client shall be
considered as accruing to such FCM Client within the meaning of the CDS
Clearing Rule Book. Such money and securities shall be treated and dealt with as
belonging to such FCM Client in accordance with the provisions of the CEA, CFTC
Regulations and the CDS Clearing Rule Book. The value of money and securities
accruing in connection with FCM Cleared Transactions cleared on behalf of FCM
Clients shall be separately recorded in the relevant FCM Client Financial Account
of each FCM Client.

(d)

Use of FCM Client Funds Restricted. No FCM Clearing Member shall use, or
permit the use of, FCM Client funds to purchase, margin or settle the trades,
contracts or transactions of, or to secure or extend the credit of, any person other
than its FCM Clients. FCM Client funds shall not be used to carry trades or
positions of the same FCM Client other than in connection with FCM Cleared
Transactions or other Cleared Swaps (as that term is defined in CFTC Regulation
22.1) cleared through the facilities of a derivatives clearing organization that has
established rules or bylaws which require Cleared Swaps, along with the money,
securities and/or other property margining, guaranteeing or securing such
derivatives, to be held in a separate account.

(e)

Interest of FCM Clearing Members in FCM Client Funds; Additions and
Withdrawals.
FCM CDS Clearing Regulation 6(b), which prohibits the
commingling of FCM Client funds with the funds of an FCM Clearing Member,
shall not be construed to prevent an FCM Clearing Member from having a residual
financial interest in FCM Client funds, segregated as required by the CEA, CFTC
Regulations and the CDS Clearing Rule Book and set apart for the benefit of FCM
Clients; nor shall such provisions be construed to prevent an FCM Clearing
Member from adding to the segregated FCM Client funds such amount or
amounts of money, from its own funds or unencumbered securities from its own
inventory, of the type permitted under FCM CDS Clearing Regulation 6(g), as it
may deem necessary to ensure that its FCM Cleared Swaps Client Segregated
Depository Account holds at all times, at a minimum, an aggregate amount equal
to the amount required by the CEA, CFTC Regulations and the CDS Clearing
Rule Book. The books and records of an FCM Clearing Member shall at all times
accurately reflect its interest in the segregated FCM Client funds. An FCM
Clearing Member may draw upon such FCM Client funds to its own order, to the
extent of its actual interest therein, including the withdrawal of securities held FCM
Cleared Swaps Client Segregated Depository Accounts held by LCH.Clearnet SA
or a Permitted Depository, provided that any such withdrawals do not result in any
such account holding less in segregated FCM Client assets than such account is
required to contain at such time. Such withdrawal shall not result in FCM Client
funds being used to purchase, margin or carry the trades, contracts or
transactions, or extend the credit of any other FCM Client or other person.

(f)

Assets Not Permitted to be Held in FCM Cleared Swaps Client Segregated
Depository Accounts. Money held in FCM Cleared Swaps Client Segregated
Depository Accounts by an FCM Clearing Member shall not include (i) money
invested in obligations or stocks of any clearing organization or in memberships in
or obligations of any contract market or (ii) money held by any clearing
organization which it may use for any purpose other than to purchase, margin,

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2013

- 10 -

Published on 5 December 2013

LCH.Clearnet SA: FCM CDS Clearing Regulations
guarantee, secure, transfer, adjust, or settle the FCM Cleared Transactions of the
FCM Clients of such FCM Clearing Member.
(g)

Investments of FCM Client Funds. An FCM Clearing Member or LCH.Clearnet SA
may invest FCM Client funds subject to the terms and conditions set forth in CFTC
Regulation 1.25, which regulation shall apply to such funds in accordance with the
provisions of the CEA and CFTC Regulation 22.2(e)(1) thereunder relating to
transactions in Cleared Swaps.

(h)

Deposit of Instruments Purchased with FCM Client Funds.

(i)

(i)

Each FCM Clearing Member that invests FCM Client funds in
instruments permitted under FCM CDS Clearing Regulation 6(g) shall
separately account for such instruments and segregate such
instruments as belonging to such FCM Clients to the extent required
under the CEA and CFTC Regulations. Such instruments, when
deposited with LCH.Clearnet SA or a Permitted Depository, shall be
deposited under an account name which clearly shows that they belong
to FCM Clients and are segregated as required by the CEA, CFTC
Regulations and the CDS Clearing Rule Book. Upon opening any such
account, an FCM Clearing Member shall obtain and retain in its files an
acknowledgment from such Permitted Depository that it was informed
that the instruments belong to FCM Clients and are being held in
accordance with the CEA and CFTC Regulations.
Such
acknowledgment shall be retained in accordance with CFTC Regulation
1.31. Such Permitted Depository shall allow inspection of the records
of such assets at any reasonable time by representatives of
LCH.Clearnet SA.

(ii)

When it invests money belonging or accruing to FCM Clients of its FCM
Clearing Members in instruments permitted under FCM CDS Clearing
Regulation 6(g), LCH.Clearnet SA shall separately account for such
instruments and segregate such instruments as belonging to such FCM
Clients (provided that any such instruments may be held in commingled
accounts, on behalf of all FCM Clients of all FCM Clearing Members, at
one or more Permitted Depositories).
Such instruments, when
deposited with a Permitted Depository, shall be deposited under an
account name which will clearly show that they belong to FCM Clients
and are segregated as required by the CEA, CFTC Regulations and the
CDS Clearing Rule Book.
Upon opening any such account,
LCH.Clearnet SA shall obtain and retain in its files a written
acknowledgment from such bank or trust company that it was informed
that the instruments belong to FCM Clients of FCM Clearing Members
and are being held in accordance with the provisions of the CEA and
CFTC Regulations.
Such acknowledgment shall be retained in
accordance with CFTC Regulation 1.31. Such Permitted Depository
shall allow inspection of such instruments at any reasonable time by
representatives of LCH.Clearnet SA.

Record of Investments.
(i)

Each FCM Clearing Member that invests FCM Client funds shall keep a
record showing the following:

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2013

- 11 -

Published on 5 December 2013

LCH.Clearnet SA: FCM CDS Clearing Regulations

(ii)

(iii)

(A)

The date on which such investments were made;

(B)

The name of the person through whom such investments
were made;

(C)

The amount of money or current market value of securities so
invested;

(D)

A description of the instruments in which such investments
were made, including the CUSIP or ISIN numbers;

(E)

The identity of the depositories or other places where such
instruments are held;

(F)

The date on which such investments were liquidated or
otherwise disposed of and the amount of money or current
market value of securities received of such disposition, if any;

(G)

The name of the person to or through whom such
investments were disposed of; and

(H)

Daily valuation for each instrument and readily available
documentation supporting the daily valuation for each
instrument. Such supporting documentation must be sufficient
to enable auditors to verify the valuations and the accuracy of
any information from external sources used in those
valuations.

When LCH.Clearnet SA receives documents from its FCM Clearing
Members representing or evidencing investment of FCM Client funds,
LCH.Clearnet SA shall keep a record showing separately for each FCM
Clearing Member the following:
(A)

The date on which such documents were received from the
FCM Clearing Member;

(B)

A description of such documents, including the CUSIP or ISIN
numbers; and

(C)

The date on which such documents were returned to the FCM
Clearing Member or the details of disposition by other means.

Such records shall be retained in accordance with CFTC Regulation
1.31. No such investments shall be made except in instruments
permitted under FCM CDS Clearing Regulation 6(g).

(j)

Valuation of Instruments Purchased with FCM Client Funds. FCM Clearing
Members that invest FCM Client funds in instruments permitted under FCM CDS
Clearing Regulation 6(g) shall include such instruments in their FCM Cleared
Swaps Client Segregated Depository Account records and reports at values which
at no time exceed their then current market value, determined as of the close of
the market on the date for which such computation is made.

(k)

Increment or Interest Resulting from Investment of FCM Client Funds. The
investment of FCM Client funds in instruments permitted under FCM CDS

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2013

- 12 -

Published on 5 December 2013

LCH.Clearnet SA: FCM CDS Clearing Regulations
Clearing Regulation 6(g) shall not prevent the FCM Clearing Member or
LCH.Clearnet SA so investing such funds from receiving and retaining as its own
any increment or interest resulting therefrom.
(l)

FCM Cleared Swaps Client Segregated Depository Accounts; Daily Computation
and Record.
(i)

(m)

Each FCM Clearing Member must compute as of the close of the
previous Business Day:
(A)

the aggregate amount of FCM Client funds on deposit in its
FCM Cleared Swaps Client Segregated Depository Account
on behalf of FCM Clients;

(B)

the amount of such FCM Client funds required by the CEA,
CFTC Regulations and the CDS Clearing Rule Book to be on
deposit in its FCM Cleared Swaps Client Segregated
Depository Account on behalf of such FCM Clients, including
the amount attributable to each individual FCM Client; and

(C)

the amount of the FCM Clearing Member’s residual interest in
such FCM Client funds.

(ii)

In computing the aggregate amount of funds required to be in its FCM
Cleared Swaps Client Segregated Depository Account, an FCM
Clearing Member may offset any net deficit in a particular FCM Client’s
account against the then current market value of readily marketable
securities, less applicable percentage deductions (i.e., “securities
haircuts”) as set forth in Rule 15c3–1(c)(2)(vi) of the Securities and
Exchange Commission (17 CFR § 241.15c3–1(c)(2)(vi)), held for the
same customer’s account. The FCM Clearing Member must maintain a
security interest in the securities, including a written authorization to
liquidate the securities at the FCM Clearing Member’s discretion, and
must segregate the securities in a safekeeping account with
LCH.Clearnet SA or a Permitted Depository. For purposes of this FCM
CDS Clearing Regulation 6(l), a security will be considered readily
marketable if it is traded on a “ready market” as defined in Rule 15c3–
1(c)(11)(i) of the Securities and Exchange Commission (17 CFR
§ 240.15c3–1(c)(11)(i)).

(iii)

The daily computations required by this FCM CDS Clearing
Regulation 6(l) must be completed by the FCM Clearing Member prior
to noon on the next Business Day and must be kept, together with all
supporting data, in accordance with the requirements of CFTC
Regulation 1.31.

Classification of Positions. Each FCM Clearing Member shall maintain, as
provided in CFTC Regulation 1.31, a record of all securities and property received
from FCM Clients in lieu of money to purchase, margin, guarantee or settle the
FCM Cleared Transactions cleared on behalf of such FCM Clients. Such record
shall show separately for each FCM Client: a description of the securities or
property received; the name and address of such FCM Client; the dates when the
securities or property were received; the identity of the Permitted Depositories or
other places where such securities or property are segregated; the dates of

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2013

- 13 -

Published on 5 December 2013

LCH.Clearnet SA: FCM CDS Clearing Regulations
deposits and withdrawals from such Permitted Depositories; and the dates of
return of such securities or property to such FCM Client, or other disposition
thereof, together with the facts and circumstances of such other disposition.
(n)

Change in Law or Regulations. LCH.Clearnet SA shall enforce the rules set forth
in this FCM CDS Clearing Regulation 6 (and set forth in these FCM CDS Clearing
Regulations generally) at all times in accordance with and subject to the CEA and
CFTC Regulations. In the event that a change in law or in CFTC Regulations
occurs but has not yet been reflected appropriately in the CDS Clearing Rule
Book, the CFTC Regulations (to the extent compliance therewith has become
mandatory) and Applicable Law will prevail, the provisions of the CDS Clearing
Rule Book shall be deemed to be modified accordingly and LCH.Clearnet SA will
enforce these FCM CDS Clearing Regulations in accordance with CFTC
Regulations and applicable law.

LCH.Clearnet SA © 2013

- 14 -

Published on 5 December 2013

EXHIBIT G
Attach as Exhibit G, copies of all contracts with any national securities exchange,
national securities association or clearing agency or securities market for which the
registrant acts as a clearing agency or performs clearing agency functions.
For the purpose of its CDS clearing activity, LCH SA has entered into agreements with:
(i)

(ii)

two matching platforms:


Exhibit G-1: Agreement with DTCC Deriv/SERV LLC and MarkitSERV,
LLC;



Exhibit G-2: Agreement with MarkitSERV MarkitWire.

an electronic execution facility: Exhibit G 3: Agreement with Bloomberg Global
Ltd.

LCH SA_FORM CA-1 APPLICATION_EXHIBIT G

EXHIBIT H
Attach as Exhibit H, a balance sheet and statement of income and expenses, and all notes
or schedules thereto of registrant, as of registrant’s most recent fiscal year for which
such information is available, certified by an independent accountant. (If certified
financial information is not available, uncertified financial information should be
submitted).
A copy of LCH SA’s audited financial statements for 2015 is attached as Exhibit H-1.

LCH SA_FORM CA-1 APPLICATION_EXHIBIT H

EXHIBIT H-1
KPMG AUDIT F S I SAS

ERNST & YOUNG Audit

8aalque Centraie de Compensat rro n

Year ended December 31, 2015

Statutory auditors' report on the separate financial statements

KPMG Audit F S I SAS
Tour Eqho
2, avenue Gambetta

ERNST & YOUNG Audit
1/2, place des Saisons
92400 Courbevoie - Paris-La Defense 1
S.A.S. capital variable

a

cs 60055
92066 Paris-La Defense Cedex
Commissa ire aux Comptes
Membre de la compagnie
regionale de Versailles

:0
-=:-. :••"'
... '1 ·~ r--~·=
-'~
.;.;::;;ii
•y"'1'.:
-;.,.,;~ s .d c;:;J; t;

. . . r-o-n
~

~I;

~

• d~

Commissaire aux Comptes
Membre de la compagnie
regionale de Versailles

sat~on

LCH. Clearnet S.A.
Year ended December 31, 2015

Statutory auditors' report on the separate financ ial statements

To the CEO,
At your request and in our capacity as statutory auditors of LCH.Clearnet S.A. in the context of the
American regulator CFTC requirements as registered Derivative Clearing Organization, we have
audited the accompanying separate financial statements of LCH. Clearnet S.A., which comprise the
separate financial position as at December 31, 2015, the separate statements of profit and loss and
other comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the year then ended, and a
summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. The separate financial
statements have been prepared by management using International Financial Reporting Standards as
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB").

Management's Responsibility for the Separate Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these separate financial
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the
International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB") and for such internal control as management
determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditors' Responsibility

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these separate financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing. Those standards
require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the separate financial statements are free from material misstatement.

An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in
the separate financial statements. The procedures selected depend on our judgment including the
assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the separate financial statements, whether due to
fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, we consider internal control relevant to the entity's
preparation and fair presentation of the separate financial statements in order to design audit
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion
on the effectiveness of the entity's internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the
appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by
management as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the separate financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for
our audit opinion.
Opinion

In our opinion, the separat e financial statements give a true and fair view of the separate financial
position of the company as at December 31, 2015, and of its separate financial performance and its
separate cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards as issued by the IASB.
This report is addressed to the managementof the company in the context described above and is not
to be used, circulated, quoted or otherwise referred to for any other purposes. We assume or take no
responsibility in respect of third party which may use this report.
This report shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with French law. The courts of France
shall have exclusive jurisdiction in relation to any claim, dispute or difference concerning the
engagement letter or this report and any matter arising from them. Each party irrevocably waives any
right it may have to object to an action being brought in any of those courts, to claim that the action
has been brought in an inconvenient forum or to claim that those courts do not have jurisdiction.

Paris-La Defense, March 30, 2016
The statutory auditors
KPMG AUDIT F SI SAS

ERNST & YOUNG Audit

~'' .

r l-

Francis Janssens

LCH . Clearnet S. A.

Marc Charles

2

Company number: 692 032 485

LCH.CLEARNET SA
SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
UNDER IFRS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED
31 DECEMBER 2015

Page 0
Page 0

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015

Board of Directors

Type of Director

Name

Other Directorship at 31 December 2015

Chairman

Lex Hoogduin

London Stock Exchange Group
LCH.Clearnet Group Limited
LCH.Clearnet Limited
LCH.Clearnet LLC
Lex Hoogduin B.V.
Supervisory Board of Centre for Integral Revalidation
GloComNet BV

Alain Demarolle

GlobeSettle SA

Director

Christophe Hémon

LCH.Clearnet (Luxembourg) S.à.r.l.

Director

Ian Abrams

LCH.Clearnet Group Limited
LCH.Clearnet Limited
LCH.Clearnet LLC
Highplus Ltd
Orchard Wealth Management Ltd (Jersey)
Orchard Funds PLC (Dublin)

Director

Neil Walker

LCH.Clearnet Group Limited
Financial Services Limited

Director

Dennis McLaughlin

LCH.Clearnet Limited
LCH.Clearnet LLC

Director

Serge Harry

GlobeSettle SA
MTS France SA
LSEG Luxco 1 S.à.r.l.
LSEG Luxco 2 S.à.r.l.
SH Consulting SASU

Director

Eric Litvack

International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc.

Director

Rémi Bourrette

Collège Français Bilingue de Londres

Director

Anthony Attia

Euronext Paris SA
Euronext France (Holding) SAS
EnterNext SA
Euronext Technologies Holding SAS
Euronext N.V.

Director

Suneel Bakhshi

LCH.Clearnet Group Limited
LCH.Clearnet Limited
LCH.Clearnet LLC

Director

Yves Perrier

LCH.Clearnet Group Limited
Amundi SA
Amundi Group
Conseil de Surveillance CA Titres
CACEIS
Crédit Agricole SA
Euro Securities Partners SAS
Société Générale Gestion

Page 1

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015

Director

Jonathan Eliot

MAN Group Plc
GLG Partners (Cayman) Ltd
GLG Partners Asset Management Ltd
MAN AHL (USA) Ltd
Man Investments Ltd
MAN MASH Ltd

Auditors
Ernst & Young, Tour First, 1 Place des Saisons, 92037 Paris La Défense
KPMG, 2, avenue Gambetta, 92066 Paris La Défense
Substitute auditors:
KPMG Audit FS2
PICARLE ET ASSOCIES

Registered office
18, rue du Quatre Septembre 75002 Paris
Telephone: +33 (0) 1 70 37 65 00
Registered in France number 692 032 485
As of 31 December 2015, LCH.Clearnet SA is fully consolidated in the accounts of LCH.Clearnet Group Limited,
the head office of which is located at Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, London. The Company’s ultimate
parent since 1 May 2013 is the London Stock Exchange Group plc.

Page 2

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Income statement

2015

2014 (restated*)

Before
impairment Impairment
& non& nonrecurring
recurring
items
items
Note
124.3
11.9
(27.0)
109.2
18
18

Settlement and other income
Settlement fees payable
Net settlement and other income

Total

Before
impairment
& nonrecurring
items

Impairment
& nonrecurring
items

Total

-

124.3
11.9
(27.0)
109.2

115.2
9.3
(20.2)
104.3

-

115.2
9.3
(20.2)
104.3

89.4
(63.5)
25.9

-

89.4
(63.5)
25.9

64.4
(48.4)
16.0

-

64.4
(48.4)
16.0

13.3
(8.6)
4.7

-

13.3
(8.6)
4.7

13.0
(8.6)
4.4

-

13.0
(8.6)
4.4

Total income

139.8

-

139.8

124.7

-

124.7

Cost of sales

(9.0)

-

(9.0)

(8.3)

-

(8.3)

130.8
(85.5)

0.7

130.8
(84.8)

116.4
(87.1)

(6.8)

116.4
(93.9)

45.3

0.7

46.0

29.3

(6.8)

22.5

€'m
Clearing fees
Other fee income
Revenue sharing arrangements
Revenue
Treasury income
Treasury expense
Net treasury income

Gross profit
Operating expenses

3

Operating profit
Finance income
Profit before taxation

5

3.2
48.5

0.7

3.2
49.2

0.3
29.6

(6.8)

0.3
22.8

Taxation expense

6

(15.1)

-

(15.1)

(6.3)

-

(6.3)

33.4

0.7

34.1

23.3

(6.8)

16.5

Profit for the year

The results for both years are in respect of continuing operations.
The notes on pages 9 to 47 form an integral part of these financial statements.
* For details of the restatement, see page 10.

Page 3
Page 3

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Statement of comprehensive income

Note
Profit for the year
Amount that will not subsequently be reclassified to profit for the
year:
Remeasurement gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans
Deferred tax relating to remeasurement gains/(losses) on defined benefit
plans
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax
Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax

The results for both years are in respect of continuing operations.
The notes on pages 9 to 47 form an integral part of these financial statements.

Page 4

6

2015
€'m

2014
€'m

34.1

16.5

0.8
(0.3)

(0.6)
0.2

0.5

(0.4)

34.6

16.1

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Statement of financial position

2015
€'m

2014
€'m

7
9
10
12
6

43.8
0.9
19.8
0.1
4.0
68.6

37.2
2.0
19.9
0.1
6.2
65.4

11
12
13

245,488.2
6.2
10,548.0
0.2
3,577.8
259,620.4

226,676.7
6.4
5,515.6
12.0
3,086.8
235,297.5

259,689.0

235,362.9

257,234.5
48.4
8.8
2,089.9
259,381.6

232,312.9
43.2
2,722.4
235,078.5

4.8
4.8

5.4
5.4

259,386.4

235,083.9

302.6

279.0

Note
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Intangible assets
Property, plant and equipment
Investment in associate
Trade and other receivables
Deferred tax asset
Total non-current assets
Current assets
Balances with clearing members (A)
Trade and other receivables (Cur.)
Cash and cash equivalents
Income tax receivable
Other financial assets
Total current assets

18

Total assets
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Balances with clearing members (L)
Trade and other payables
Income tax payable
Default funds
Total current liabilities

11
14
16

Non-current liabilities
Employee benefits
Total non-current liabilities

17

Total liabilities
Net assets

Page 5
Page 5

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Statement of financial position (continued)

Note
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital
Share premium
Capital reserves
Retained earnings
Total equity

20
20
20
20

Lex Hoogduin
Chairman
The notes on pages 9 to 47 form an integral part of these financial statements.

Page 6

2015
€'m

2014
€'m

113.1
0.7
43.1
145.7
302.6

113.1
0.7
42.6
122.6
279.0

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Statement of cash flows

2015
€'m

2014
€'m

Profit for the year
Tax expense
Depreciation and amortisation
Share-based payments expense
Decrease in trade and other receivables
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables
Unrealised fair value gains on financial instruments
Margin monies cash inflow/(outflow)
(Decrease)/increase in default funds
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operations
Tax received
Tax paid
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities

34.1
15.1
9.5
0.3
0.2
7.0
6,110.1
(632.5)
5,543.8
11.9
(5.9)
5,549.8

16.5
6.3
8.4
0.1
10.9
(34.4)
(11.1)
(1,375.5)
490.5
(888.3)
4.9
(11.4)
(894.8)

Investing activities
Investment in intangible assets
Purchase of property, plant and equipment
Acquisition of other financial assets
Increase/(decrease) in investments
Net cash outflow from investing activities

(14.7)
(0.3)
(491.0)
(0.1)
(506.1)

(14.9)
(20.4)
(35.3)

(0.3)
(11.0)
(11.3)

(0.1)
(0.1)

5,032.4

(930.2)

5,515.6
10,548.0

6,445.8
5,515.6

9,970.2
577.8
10,548.0

1,173.2
4,342.4
5,515.6

Note
Cash flows arising from operating activities

Financing activities
Share-based payments contribution
Dividend paid
Net cash outflow from financing activities
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December comprise:
Cash at bank and in hand
Investments in secured short term deposits
13

The notes on pages 9 to 47 form an integral part of these financial statements.

Page 7
Page 7

LCH.Clearnet SA
Financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Statement of changes in equity

Shareholders’ equity at 1 January 2014
Profit for the year to 31 December 2014
Other comprehensive expense
Total comprehensive income
Dividends paid
Share-based payment contribution
Share-based payment expense
Shareholders’ equity 31 December 2014

Called up
share
capital
€'m

Share
premium
€'m

Other
capital
reserves
€'m

Retained
earnings
€'m

Total
€'m

113.1
113.1

0.7
0.7

43.0
(0.4)
(0.4)
42.6

106.1
16.5
16.5
0.1
(0.1)
122.6

262.9
16.5
(0.4)
16.1
0.1
(0.1)
279.0

-

-

0.5
0.5
-

34.1
34.1
(11.0)
0.3
(0.3)

34.1
0.5
34.6
(11.0)
0.3
(0.3)

113.1

0.7

43.1

145.7

302.6

Profit for the year to 31 December 2015
Other comprehensive income
Total comprehensive income
Dividends paid
Share-based payment contribution
Share-based payment expense
Shareholders’ equity at 31 December 2015

The notes on pages 9 to 47 form an integral part of these financial statements.

Page 8
Page 8

LCH.Clearnet SA
Financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with IFRS
Authorisation for publication
The financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2015 under IFRS as issued by the
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) have been prepared for the sole purpose of reporting to the
American regulator CFTC as part of the registration of LCH.Clearnet SA on CDS business clearing activity.
The presentation under IFRS does not affect the Company’s cash flows or the underlying economics of the
business although the presentation of certain items in the statement of financial position and income statement
differ.
LCH.Clearnet SA is a private limited company incorporated and domiciled in France.
Principal activities
The Company continues to satisfy the requirements of the Autorité de Contrôle Prudentiel et de Résolution as a
Recognised Clearing House in France, and the requirements of all other regulatory bodies to whose rules the
Company is subject. It provides central counterparty services in respect of a broad range of cash and derivative
products traded on platforms or in OTC markets in Europe.
Statement of compliance
The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the financial statements are set out in note 1.
Unless otherwise stated these policies have been applied to the years ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December
2014.
1. Summary of significant accounting policies and basis of preparation
Basis of preparation
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs and International Financial Reporting
Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) interpretations issued by the IASB effective for 2015 reporting.
The separate financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the
valuation of financial assets and liabilities held at fair value. A summary of significant accounting policies is set out
below, together with an explanation of changes to previous policies on the adoption of new accounting standards.
The Company uses a columnar format for the presentation of its income statement. This aids the understanding of
its results by presenting profit for the year before non-recurring items. Profit before non-recurring items is
reconciled to profit before taxation on the face of the income statement.
The separate financial statements are presented in millions of euros except where otherwise indicated.

Page 9
Page 9

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

Changes in accounting treatment
The results for the period ended 31 December 2014 have been restated as follows:
i) to classify fees related to clearing activities with actual clearing fees under a revenue heading
ii) to reflect the presentation of two additional performance measures, being cost of sales and gross profit, on
the face of the income statement
These changes in presentation are to further assist users in understanding financial performance and do not impact
previously reported profit before tax or profit after tax. The impact on the income statement is as follows:

Revenue
Clearing fees
Net treasury income
Net settlement and other income
Revenue sharing arrangements
Total income (2)
Cost of sales
Gross profit
Operating expenses
Operating profit
(1)

2014
As originally
reported
€'m

2014

2014

2014

Adjustment (i)
€'m

Adjustment (ii)
€'m

As restated
€'m

- (1)
115.2
16.0
13.7
(20.2)
124.7

104.3
(115.2)
(9.3)
20.2
-

-

104.3
16.0
4.4
124.7

- (1)
124.7
(102.2)
22.5

-

(8.3)
(8.3)
8.3
-

(8.3)
116.4
(93.9)
22.5

measure not originally reported
named net revenue

(2) previously

The composition of revenue and cost of sales are detailed further on the face of the income statement. This
restatement has no other impact on the income statement or statement of financial position. There are no other
restatements in the financial statements as a result of the adoption of new accounting standards or prior year
adjustments.
Going concern
The Directors have made an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern and to meet
current and future regulatory capital requirements and are satisfied that it has the resources to continue in business
for the foreseeable future, being at least 12 months from the date on which these accounts were approved by the
Board.
Contracts for the majority of the exchanges for which the Company clears have a notice period of at least one year.
It has a large number of clearing members and is not unduly reliant on any single clearing member or group of
clearing members. Furthermore, the Directors are not currently aware of any material uncertainties that may cast
significant doubt upon the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Therefore the financial statements
continue to be prepared on the going concern basis.
Presentational currency
The Company’s financial statements are presented in euros, which is the functional currency of the Company.
Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires the use of estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Although these estimates are based on
management’s best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those
estimates.
Page 10

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustments to the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are:
• the measurement and impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets. The Company determines
whether indefinite life goodwill is impaired on an annual basis and this requires an estimation of the value
in use of cash generating units to which the goodwill is allocated. Intangible assets are assessed when an
indication of impairment arises. This requires the estimation of future cash flows and choosing a suitable
discount rate (see note 8).
• the measurement of defined benefit pension obligations. Measurement of defined benefit pension
obligations requires estimation of future changes in salaries and inflation as well as mortality rates, the
expected return on assets and the choice of a suitable discount rate (see note 17)
Investments
The Company recognises its investments in its associates at cost less the value of any impairment provision that
may be necessary. Income is recognised from these investments in relation to any distributions received.
Foreign currencies
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the Company are
translated into the functional currency of the Company at the rates of exchange ruling on the statement of financial
position date and the resulting exchange differences are recorded in the income statement. Transactions in foreign
currencies are recorded at the prevailing foreign exchange rates at the date of the transaction in the income
statement and are not revalued.
In the statement of cash flows, cash flows denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional
currency of the Company at the average exchange rates for the year or at the rate prevailing at the time of the
transaction where more appropriate.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on an acquisition is the fair value of consideration less the fair value of the net assets acquired.
Goodwill is capitalised in the statement of financial position within intangible assets. Following initial recognition
goodwill is measured at initial value less any accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets other than goodwill
Intangible assets other than goodwill are initially recognised at cost and are capitalised on the statement of
financial position. Where assets are acquired as a result of a business acquisition or the negotiation of an operating
agreement, fair values are attributed to the assets acquired. Following initial recognition the assets are amortised at
rates calculated to write off their cost on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives.
An internally generated intangible asset arising from the Company’s business development is created if the asset
can be identified, its cost measured reliably and it is probable that it will generate future economic benefits.
Amortisation is charged from the date the developed product, service, process or system is available for use. Selfdeveloped software is amortised over periods between three and five years.
Other intangible assets in 2014 represented investment in business development. Amortisation is charged from the
date of recognition over a five year period.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is initially recognised at cost and capitalised in the statement of financial position
and is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Depreciation is provided
on all property, plant and equipment at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value based on
current prices, of each asset over its expected useful life as follows:
• leasehold refurbishment over the term of the lease (up to a maximum of ten years)
• computer equipment and purchased software over three years
• office equipment and other fixed assets between three and five years
Page 11

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are
expected to arise from continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset (calculated
as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item) is included in the income
statement in the year the item is derecognised.
Impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment
Goodwill and intangible assets in the course of development are subject to an annual impairment review or a more
frequent review if there are events or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying amount of the asset
may not be fully recoverable. Other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are subject to an
impairment review if there are events or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying amount of the
fixed asset may not be fully recoverable.
For the purpose of impairment testing assets are allocated to cash generating units monitored by management,
usually at statutory company level. The impairment review involves a comparison of the carrying amount of the
goodwill or other asset allocated to the related cash generating units, with its recoverable amount, which is the
higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. Fair value less costs to sell is calculated by reference to the
amount at which the asset could be disposed of less the costs associated with the sale.
Value in use is calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows obtainable as a result of the assets
continued use, including those resulting from its ultimate disposal, at a market based discount rate on a pre-tax
basis. The carrying values of intangible assets or property, plant and equipment are written down by the amount of
any impairment and this loss is recognised in the income statement in the year in which it occurs.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a cash generating unit is taken into account when determining the
gain or loss on disposal of the unit.
Financial instruments
The Company classifies its financial instruments into the following categories: financial assets and liabilities at fair
value through profit or loss, held to maturity investments, loans and receivables, cash and short term deposits,
trade and other payables, interest bearing loans and borrowings and derivative financial instruments and classes.
Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are financial instruments which are either acquired
for trading purposes, or as designated by management. Financial instruments held in this category are initially
recognised and subsequently measured at fair value with transaction costs taken directly to the income statement.
Changes in fair value are recorded within net treasury income. Interest earned or incurred is accrued in interest
income or expense, or finance income or cost according to the purpose of the financial instrument.
Balances with clearing members are included in this category upon initial recognition and are recorded on a
settlement date basis. Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the statement of
financial position when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an
intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Held to maturity financial investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and
fixed maturities which the Company has the intention and ability to hold to maturity. After initial measurement held
to maturity financial investments are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate less
impairment. The amortisation of any premium or discount is included in interest income.
If the Company sells or reclassifies a significant amount of held to maturity investments before maturity (other than
in certain specific circumstances) the entire category would have to be reclassified as available for sale. The
Company would then be prohibited from classifying any financial asset as held to maturity during the following two
years.
Securities sold under agreements to repurchase at a specified future date are not derecognised from the statement
of financial position as the Company retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership. The corresponding
cash received is recognised in the statement of financial position as an asset with a corresponding obligation to
return it, including accrued interest as a liability, reflecting the transaction’s economic substance as a loan to the
Company. The difference between the sale and repurchase prices is treated as interest expense and is accrued
Page 12

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

over the life of the agreement using the effective interest rate method.
Conversely, securities purchased under agreements to resell at a specified future date are not recognised in the
statement of financial position. The consideration paid, including accrued interest, is recorded in the statement of
financial position, reflecting the transaction’s economic substance as a loan by the Company. The difference
between the purchase and resale prices is recorded in interest income and is accrued over the life of the
agreement using the effective interest rate method.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted
in an active market. After initial recognition at fair value, loans and receivables are subsequently measured at
amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less allowance for impairment.
Cash and short term deposits comprise cash in hand and current balances with banks and similar institutions which
are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and
have an original maturity of six months or less. For the purposes of the cash flow statement cash and cash
equivalents are as defined above, but with an original maturity of three months or less, net of bank overdrafts
(which are included within interest bearing loans and borrowings in current liabilities on the statement of financial
position).
Other financial assets include government backed certificates of deposit issued by banks, notes and treasury bills
directly issued by state or national governments. These assets are initially recognised and subsequently measured
at fair value.
Interest bearing loans and other borrowings and default funds are initially recorded at fair value. Subsequent
measurement is at amortised cost using the effective interest method, and amortised cost is calculated by taking
into account any discount or premium on the issue and costs that are an integral part of the effective interest rate.
Where derivative financial instruments are used, such as interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward
exchange contracts, they reduce exposure to interest rate movements and foreign currency movements. The
change in fair value of these hedging instruments is recognised in the income statement. The Company does not
hold derivative financial instruments for trading purposes, but derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting
are accounted for as trading instruments and are initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair value.
The Company establishes fair value using recognised valuation techniques. These include the use of externally
available market prices, discounted cash flow analysis and other valuation techniques commonly used by market
participants. Where discounted cash flow analysis and other valuation techniques are used assumptions are
validated against market observable inputs.
Default fund and margin deposits
Default fund contributions paid by clearing members are mainly in cash. Clearing members may elect to use cash
or securities to cover initial margin requirements; realised variation margin may only be covered in cash. Members
may pledge securities directly using a bilateral delivery mechanism. Cash initial margin, variation margin and
default fund deposits are reflected in the statement of financial condition as assets and liabilities.
The amount of margin deposits on hand will fluctuate over time as a result of, among other things, the extent of
open positions held at any point in time by market participants in contracts and the margin rates then in effect for
such contract.
Non-cash initial margin is not reflected in the statement of financial position. These non-cash assets are held in
safekeeping, and the Company does not take legal ownership of the assets as the risks and rewards remain with
the clearing members, unless and until such time as a clearing member defaults on its obligations to the Company.
Derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities
A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold,
cancelled or expires. Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on
substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or
modification is treated as a de-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the
difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in the income
Page 13

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

statement.
Taxation
Deferred and current tax assets and liabilities are only offset when they arise in the same reporting tax group and
where there is both a legal right of offset and the intention to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle
the liability simultaneously.
Income tax relating to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income is charged or credited as
appropriate to other comprehensive income and there is no effect on profit for the year.
Current tax
Current tax assets and liabilities for current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be
recovered from or paid to relevant taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are
those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the date on which the Board approves the separate financial
statements.
Deferred tax
Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the statement of financial
position date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting
purposes using tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted by the date on which the Board approves the
financial statements.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences. Deferred income tax assets are recognised for
all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which
the deductible temporary differences can be utilised, except where the deferred income tax asset arises through
investments in subsidiaries and it is not probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable
future.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised for current obligations arising as consequences of past events where it is probable that a
transfer of economic benefits will be necessary to settle the obligation and it can be reliably estimated. All
provisions, except for those arising under pension liabilities, are undiscounted.
In the normal course of business, the Company receives legal claims in respect of commercial, employment and
other matters. Where a claim is more likely than not to result in an economic outflow of benefits from the Company
(and is measureable), a provision is made representing the expected cost of settling such claims.
Share capital
Called up share capital comprises ordinary shares. Other capital reserves are described in note 20. Other
instruments are classified as liabilities if there is an obligation to transfer economic benefits and if not they are
included in Shareholders’ funds. The finance cost recognised in the income statement in respect of capital
instruments other than equity shares is allocated to periods over the term of the instrument at a constant rate on
the carrying amount.
The share premium comprises the difference between the issue proceeds of shares and their nominal value.
Revenue recognition
Clearing fee income and rebates, together with other fee income and net settlement fees, are recognised on a
transaction by transaction basis in accordance with the Company’s fee scales. Non-cash collateral fees are
charged on non-cash collateral provided by members and are included in other fee income.
Net treasury income is the total of revenue earned on the cash and other financial assets held that have been
generated from clearing member activity, less interest paid to clearing members on their margin and other monies
lodged with the Company. Interest expense or income is recorded using the effective interest rate method, which is
Page 14

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial
instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial instrument.
Finance income is revenue earned on the Company’s own cash and financial assets balances and is also
recognised on an effective interest rate basis.
Revenue sharing arrangements
Amounts deducted from revenue relate to surplus or revenue share arrangements whereby, as part of an operating
agreement, amounts are due back to either the other party to the operating agreement or the actual clearing
customers.
Cost of sales
Items of expense that are directly attributable to creating a product or provide a service that directly generates
revenue or has the ability to generate revenue are classified as cost of sales.
Employee benefits
The Company has committed to assume obligations in respect of certain staff in the Euronext defined benefit
pension scheme in Porto who transferred their employment to LCH Clearnet SA in 2006. A full actuarial valuation of
these funds was carried out at 31 December 2015 by a qualified independent actuary. Major assumptions used by
the actuary are included within note 17.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plans is determined using the projected unit method, which
attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period (to determine current service cost) and to the current and
prior periods (to determine the present value of defined benefit obligations) and is based on actuarial advice. Past
service costs are recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period or immediately
if the benefits have vested. When a settlement or a curtailment occurs, the change in the present value of the
scheme liabilities and the fair value of the plan assets reflects the gain or loss which is recognised in the income
statement.
The net interest amount is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset at the
start of each annual reporting period.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the statement of other comprehensive income in the period in which
they occur. The defined benefit pension liability in the statement of financial position comprises the total for each
plan of the present value of the defined benefit obligation (using a discount rate based on high quality corporate
bonds that have been rated at AA or equivalent status), less the fair value of plan assets out of which the
obligations are to be settled directly. Fair value is based on market price information, and in the case of quoted
securities is the published mid market price.
The contribution payable to a defined contribution plan is in proportion to the services rendered to LCH.Clearnet SA
by the employees and is recorded as an expense in the income statement within employee benefits.
Share-based compensation
The Company operates share-based compensation plans for employees, settled in shares of the ultimate parent
company, London Stock Exchange Group plc. The charge to the income statement is determined by the fair value
of the options granted or shares awarded at the date of the grant as an indirect measure of the value of employee
services received by the Company and recognised over the relevant vesting period.
The share-based compensation plans are accounted for as equity settled. The Company does record a cost for
these transactions, representative of the fact that the company has received a capital contribution from LSEG
which has been spent on share-based compensation, with the corresponding credit recorded in equity. A debit will
then also be recorded in equity and an intercompany payable recorded reflecting the company’s investment.
Dividends
Revenue is recognised when the Company’s right to receive payment is established.
Page 15

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

Leases
The Company is a lessee. Leases of property, plant and equipment where substantially all the risks and rewards of
ownership have passed to the Company are capitalised in the statement of financial position as property, plant and
equipment. Finance leases are capitalised at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present
value of the minimum lease payments. The capital element of future obligations under finance leases is included as
a liability in the statement of financial position. The interest element of rental obligations is charged to the income
statement over the period of the lease and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments
outstanding. Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the
useful economic life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases of property, plant and equipment where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are
retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Rentals payable under operating leases are charged in
the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term. Lease incentives are recognised over the lease
term.
Where a lease becomes onerous the full value of net future costs is immediately recognised in the income
statement.
Fair value measurement
The Company measures financial instruments such as derivatives at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants in an arm’s length transaction at the measurement date. The fair value measurement
is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either in the
principal market for the asset or liability or in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market
for the asset or liability.
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when
pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
The Company uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are
available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of
unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised
within the fair value hierarchy, described in note 18.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Company
determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation (based
on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting
period.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Company has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis
of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained
above.

Page 16

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

Non-recurring items
Items of income and expense that are material by size and/or nature and are non-recurring are classified as nonrecurring items on the face of the income statement within their relevant category. The separate reporting of these
items together with impairment of intangible assets helps give an indication of underlying performance.
Government grants
Grants receivable are recognised in the income statement over the period in which the expenses are incurred when
there is an expectation that the amounts will be received.
New accounting standards, amendments and interpretations
Standards issued and adopted for the financial year beginning 1 January 2015

Effective date for
periods beginning on
or after
Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions

1 July 2014

Annual improvements 2010 – 2012

1 July 2014

Annual improvements 2011 – 2013

1 July 2014

Standards issued but not effective for the financial year beginning 1 January 2015 and not early adopted
The following standards, amendments and interpretations have been issued by the IASB and IFRIC with an
effective date. With the exception of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, the Directors do not expect
adoption of these standards to have a material effect on the results. The implementation date for IFRS 15 has
been postponed until 1 January 2018. Further consideration of the effects of this standard is ongoing and its likely
effects will be reported in due course.
Effective date for
periods beginning on
or after
Amendments to IFRS 11 Joint arrangements on accounting for acquisitions of interest in
a joint operations

1 January 2016

Amendment to IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment and IAS 38 Intangible assets on
Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation

1 January 2016

Proposed amendment to IAS 27 Separate financial statements on equity method in
separate financial statements

1 January 2016

Annual improvements 2012-2014

1 January 2016

IAS 1 : Disclosure initiative

1 January 2016

IFRS 10, IFRS 12, and IAS 28 investments Entities : Applying the consolidation exception

1 January 2016

IFRS 14 Regulatory deferral accounts

1 January 2016

IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers

1 January 2018

IFRS 9 Financial Instruments

1 January 2018

Page 17

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

2. Risk management
Introduction
The Company’s activities expose it to a number of financial risks, principally market risk (interest rate risk, volatility
in financial markets), sovereign risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and pension risk. In addition to the financial risks, the
Group is also exposed to operational, compliance, legal and reputational risk. The Company manages these risks
through various control mechanisms and its approach to risk management is to be prudent yet responsive to
changes in the risk environment.
Overall responsibility for risk management rests with the Company’s Board. Day to day responsibility is delegated
to the executives of the Company on the basis of risk policies which are calibrated to the Board’s risk appetite and
are discussed and agreed by the Company’s Risk Committees and Boards. The application of these policies is
undertaken by the Company’s Risk department, who control and manage the exposures arising from the various
clearing activities
Enterprise Risk management framework
Each of the risks identified in this section are governed by the Risk Governance Framework issued and refreshed
annually by the Board. This framework describes the overall risk appetite of the Company and defines each risk
type and specifies ownership and the tolerance levels. The framework also requires that all risks are measured,
monitored and reported via an Enterprise Risk Management framework which is coordinated by the Chief Risk
Officer.
For each of the principal risk types, a description and outline of the risk management approach is provided below.
Financial market volatility (latent market risk)
Risk description
Volatility within the financial markets in which the Company operates can adversely affect its earnings and its ability
to meet its business objectives. The Company runs a balanced position in all cleared contracts and runs no
significant market risk unless a clearing member defaults. In such an event the Company faces market risk which is
correlated to clearing member positions and market conditions.
Risk management approach
The market and credit risk management policies of the Company are reviewed and approved by its Risk
Committees and Boards at least annually. A variety of measurement methodologies, including both empirical and
analytical margin models, stress testing and scenario analysis, are used daily to quantify and assess the levels of
credit and market risk to which the Company is exposed, and hence the amount of resources that should be held to
cover such risks, under both normal and extreme but plausible, market conditions.
Initial margins for all clearing services are calibrated and back-tested to a 99.7% confidence level which has the
effect of reducing the probability of loss from the default of a clearing member with the worst acceptable credit to
the level of an AAA rated credit for the next 12 months.
Potential market risk is reduced by collecting variation margin on marked to market positions and by establishing
initial margin requirements which are the Company’s estimate of likely future market risk under normal market
conditions, calibrated to a 99.7% confidence level for all products. Variation margin add-ons are calculated for
clearing member specific concentration, liquidity, wrong way risk and credit risk. Both variation and initial margin
are collected daily and replenished intraday subject to credit related thresholds.
The Company accepts both cash and high quality non-cash collateral to cover margin requirements. The list of
acceptable non-cash collateral is restricted and haircuts are set for each security type taking into account market,
credit, foreign exchange, country and liquidity risks and calibrated to a 99.7% confidence level. All non-cash
collateral is revalued daily.
As at 31 December 2015 the total margin liability of clearing members amounted to €24.8 billion (2014: €21.2
billion), against which the Company had received €14.9 billion in cash (2014: €10.1 billion), €8.9 billion in non-cash
Page 18

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

securities (2014: €9.7 billion) and €1.0 billion in bank guarantees (2014: €1.4 billion). The maximum margin liability
during the year was €29.3 billion (2014: €28.2 billion).
New applicants for clearing must meet strict credit, financial and operational criteria, which are regularly reviewed
as part of the Company’s risk policies and subject to independent validation at least annually.
The operating subsidiaries also require all clearing members to contribute to pre-funded default funds to be used
should the margins of a defaulted clearing member not fully cover close out costs. Supplementary financial
resources include a proportion of the CCP’s own capital and further clearing member contributions to ensure the
continuity of ongoing operations. The operating subsidiary pre-funded default funds are segregated by clearing
service and designated to be sufficient at all times to cover the default of the two clearing member groups giving
rise to the greatest losses above margin under extreme but plausible market conditions.
As at 31 December 2015 the total of clearing member contributions to the default funds amounted to €2.1 billion
(2014: €2.7 billion) (note 16). The maximum amount during the year was €3.1 billion (2014: €3.1 billion). Clearing
members are committed to contribute further amounts in the event of a clearing member default equivalent to
approximately twice this amount.
The models which calculate margins and default fund contributions are independently validated at least annually
and meet all applicable regulatory requirements.
Sovereign risk
Risk description
Distress amongst sovereigns through market concerns over the levels of government debt and the ability of certain
governments to service their debts over time could have adverse effects on the value and liquidity of the
Company’s cleared products, margin collateral and investments, and on the clearing membership and the financial
industry as a whole.
.
Risk management approach
Specific risk frameworks manage sovereign risk for both fixed income clearing and margin collateral, and all
clearing members portfolios are monitored regularly against a suite of sovereign stress scenarios which model
escalations in sovereign risk. In addition, investment limits and both counterparty and clearing membership
monitoring frameworks are sensitive to changes in ratings and other financial market indicators, to ensure that the
Company is able to measure, monitor and mitigate exposures to sovereign risk and respond quickly to anticipated
changes.
The Risk Committees and Boards continually monitor such risks and to the risk framework continues to protect the
Company against potentially severe market volatility in the sovereign debt markets.
The Company has investments in the following Sovereigns (or equivalent issuer) as at 31 December 2015:

Sovereign (or equivalent)

2015
Investment value Proportion
€ billion

2014
Investment value Proportion
€ billion

France
European Union
Belgium
Germany
Netherlands

12.6
0.5
0.4
-

94%
3%
3%
0%
0%

3.5
0.6
0.1
0.1

82%
0%
14%
2%
2%

Total

13.5

100%

4.3

100%

The total investment includes all other financial assets of €3,577.8 million (2014: €3,086.8 million) along with
Page 19

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

central bank cash deposits.
Credit risk
Risk description
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty of the Company will be unable or unwilling to meet a financial commitment
to the Company. Credit risk exposure arises as a direct result of the reinvestment of the cash the Company holds
primarily as part of its CCP activities, in collecting margin and default fund contributions from its clearing members.
Risk management approach
The investment portfolio is invested in accordance with clear risk policies which require secure investment of a
significant portion of the portfolio either via reverse repurchase agreements with credit and financial institutions,
receiving high quality government, government guaranteed or supranational securities as collateral, by investing
directly in such securities or by the placement of cash with central banks
The Investment Risk Policy requires that securities received as collateral are subject to a haircut on their market
value, that the average maturity of the portfolio will not exceed two years, and that while cash may be deposited on
an unsecured basis, this can only be short term with high quality banking institutions and limited to a 12 month
average of 5% and a maximum of 10% of all credit institution investment.
The investment portfolio at 31 December 2015 was €14.1 billion (2014: €8.6 billion), of which 99.96% (2014:
99.95%) was invested securely with an overall average maturity of 43 days (2014: 59 days). The maximum portfolio
size during the year was €14.1 billion (2014: €11.2 billion). Note 18 contains further analysis of the investment
portfolio including by type and fair value hierarchy.
All counterparties, including clearing members, interoperating CCPs, investment counterparties, custodians and
settlement and payment institutions, are assessed according to an internal credit scoring framework. This
framework incorporates elements of the counterparty’s financial profile, including funding, liquidity, capital and
profitability, and a detailed operational capability assessment. The scoring framework is independently validated at
least annually and is continuously monitored for performance. A minimum credit score is set for joining any clearing
service and for institutions to be eligible for investment or as interoperating CCPs and payment, settlement and
custodial intermediaries. Increased margins are applied to clearing members when their credit score deteriorates
below the entry level. Other actions may include reduced credit tolerances and forced reduction of exposures.
The Company currently interoperates with several other CCPs in Europe for cash cleared products. Interoperability
with another CCP poses risks similar to the risks to which the Company is exposed with its clearing members.
Credit risk is managed according to the same credit assessment framework applied to clearing members and other
counterparties. To cover the latent market risk arising on interoperating exposures, all interoperating CCPs are
subject to daily margining.
As at 31 December 2015 the total interoperating margin placed with and received under reciprocal arrangements
with other CCPs amounted to €3.7 billion and €3.3 billion (2014: €1.2 billion and €1.8 billion) respectively.
Financial assets are neither past due nor impaired. The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is
represented by the carrying value as at the statement of financial position date.
Analysis by credit rating
The table below shows the Company’s clearing member balances and investment portfolio by reference to the
credit rating of the counterparty. The treasury portfolio includes cash at bank and other financial assets.

Page 20

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

2015
€'m

2014
€'m

12

963.1
8,021.0
28,985.1
80,564.2
10,513.3
90,824.4
2,033.8
14,305.0
3,815.6
240,025.5

0.2
14,433.8
17,956.1
58,768.4
40,251.0
24,009.9
56,895.1
10,956.7
3,405.5
226,676.7

18

13,542.3
577.9
5.6
14,125.8

4,255.8
4,342.4
4.2
8,602.4

Note
Fair value of balances with clearing members
(rating assigned with reference to major agencies)
Members rated AAA
AA+
AA
AAA+
A
ABBB+
BBB
Other, <BBB
Unrated

Company investment portfolio
(rating assigned with reference to major agencies)
AAA/AA+/AA/AA- Government backed
AA/AA+/AAA Secured
AA/AA+/AAA Unsecured
A/A+/A-/AA- Secured
A/A+/AA- Unsecured

The total credit risk of the Company is represented by the total financial assets of the Company as disclosed in
note 18.
Concentration risk
Risk description
Concentration risk may arise through having large connected individual exposures and significant exposures to
groups of counterparts whose likelihood of default is driven by common underlying factors.
Risk management approach
Direct concentration risk arises in several areas of the Company’s activities, and in order to avoid excessive
concentrations of risk the Company maintains a diversified portfolio of high quality liquid investments and uses a
diversified range of custodians, payment and settlement banks and agents.
Indirect concentration risks, conditional upon a clearing member default, are managed within risk policy through
various means, including restrictions on certain non-cash collateral issuers and the monitoring of aggregated
exposures to member groups across clearing and investment activities.
The largest concentration of treasury exposures as at 31 December 2015 was 24% of the total investment portfolio
to the French Government (2014: 34% to the French Government).
Procyclicality
Risk description
Systemically important CCPs recognise that they have an important responsibility towards their clearing members
Page 21

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

and other market participants to ensure that their actions do not unnecessarily amplify existing market stresses.
Indeed, risk mitigating actions that are excessively pro-cyclical are undesirable to the group CCPs from a narrow
risk management perspective as well as from a macro-economic and regulatory perspective.
Risk management approach
The LCH.Clearnet CCPs acknowledge that while some level of procyclicality may be unavoidable, as they must
protect themselves by ensuring adequate margins are held against risk, standards have been introduced for
ensuring that procyclicality concerns are appropriately addressed in the risk framework and the margin, haircut and
credit scoring models. These standards require all models which are used for setting the levels of resources called
from participants, and which therefore may be sources of procyclical outputs, to be tested using an extended period
of historical inputs.
Interest rate risk
Risk description
The Company is exposed to interest rate risk arising from the cash and investment balances it maintains, the
margin and default fund balances it holds from clearing members and the loans and borrowings it has issued.
Risk management approach
Interest bearing assets are generally invested for a longer term than the interest bearing liabilities, whose interest
rate is generally reset daily. This makes investment revenue vulnerable to volatility in overnight rates and shifts in
spreads between overnight and term rates. Interest rate exposures are managed within defined risk appetite
parameters against which sensitivities are monitored daily. The risk to the Company’s capital is managed within
interest rate risk limits expressed as a percentage of each subsidiary’s capital and calculated under stressed
scenarios.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis
The Group aims to minimise its exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Any exposure is predominantly due to the
mismatch between the Group’s interest bearing assets and interest bearing member liabilities. Since the return paid
on member liabilities is generally reset to prevailing market interest rates on an overnight basis the Group is
exposed for the time it takes to reset the interest rates on its investments and the shifts in spreads between
overnight and term rates. The maximum fixed exposure on any asset in the treasury portfolio is one year and the
portfolio is subject to an overall interest rate risk limit.
The following table shows the estimated impact on the consolidated profit after tax and the effect on retained
earnings within shareholders’ equity [extend description of the table sensitivity]:

€'m
Net exposure of cash and member margin balances
Tax effect of above
Decrease in profit after tax

Net exposure of cash and member margin balances
Tax effect of above
Increase in profit after tax

+25bp

2015
+50bp

+100bp

+25bp

2014
+50bp

+100bp

(8.9)
3.0
(5.9)

(17.7)
5.8
(11.9)

(35.5)
11.7
(23.8)

(3.0)
1.0
(2.0)

(6.0)
2.0
(4.0)

(12.0)
4.0
(8.0)

-25bp

-50bp

-100bp

-25bp

-50bp

-100bp

8.9
(3.0)
5.9

17.7
(5.8)
11.9

35.5
(11.7)
23.8

3.0
(1.0)
2.0

6.0
(2.0)
4.0

12.0
(4.0)
8.0

Page 22

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

Liquidity risk
Risk description
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company is unable to meet its payment obligations when they fall due.
Liquidity risk exists as a result of day to day operational flows such as repayments of cash collateral to clearing
members, provision of liquidity to facilitate settlement and cash flows resulting from investment activity. In the case
of a clearing member default, the Company must transfer or liquidate the defaulter’s portfolio. The default
management process may give rise to additional liquidity requirements to meet losses arising to meet the
defaulter’s settlement and margin obligations until the portfolio is closed out or transferred.
Risk management approach
Liquidity risk is managed by ensuring that the Company has sufficient cash to meet their payment obligations
supported facilities to meet short term imbalances between available cash and payment obligations. The Company
maintains liquidity buffers against expected daily operational liquidity needs, based on the maximum relevant
liquidity outflow observed from an extensive data history, and against the default of one or more clearing members
when additional liquidity will be required so that the Company can continue to meet its obligations to clearing
members and other counterparties.
The Company’s liquidity management is subject to strict minimum liquidity targets set by senior executives within its
Risk and Collateral & Liquidity Management (CaLM) departments. These targets are reviewed regularly and
reported to the Risk Committees and Boards. On a day to day basis CaLM is tasked with ensuring that the
Company can meet its financing needs at all times, in particular to ensure the business continues to operate
smoothly in the event of the default of one or more clearing members.
The ability to access liquidity under extreme market conditions is modelled daily. Liquid resources include available
cash balances, secured financing facilities and access to central bank liquidity. LCH.Clearnet uses central bank
money where such facilities are available to it as a CCP and are practicable as determined through internal review.
The table below analyses the Company’s financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the
remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table
are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Three
More
Less than months One to
than
On
three
to one
five
five
demand
months
year
years
years
Total
As at 31 December 2015
€'m
€'m
€'m
€'m
€'m
€'m
Fair value of transactions with clearing
members
Initial margin and other clearing member
balances
Default funds
Trade and other payables

As at 31 December 2014
Fair value of transactions with clearing
members
Initial margin and other clearing member
balances
Default funds
Trade and other payables

- (240 025.5)

-

-

- (240 025.5)

-

(17 209.0)

-

-

-

(17 209.0)

-

- (2 089.9)
(48.0)
Three
Less than months
three
to one
months
year
€'m
€'m

-

-

(2 089.9)
(48.0)

One to
More
five than five
years
years
€'m
€'m

Total
€'m

On
demand
€'m

- (224 695.5)

-

-

- (224 695.5)

-

-

-

-

(7 617.5)

- (2 722.4)
(41.1)
-

-

-

(2 722.4)
(41.1)

Page 23

(7 617.5)

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

For the default funds, the tenor of the liability is matched with the interest reset dates of the asset. The weighted
average maturity of the treasury portfolio is 43 days (2014: 59 days), with strict risk criteria related to interest rate
exposure being applied.
Interest due on the financial liabilities is based upon rates set on a daily basis.
Settlement risk
Risk description
Settlement risk is the risk that the Company makes a payment or delivery without simultaneously receiving the
delivery or payment from the counterparty.
Risk management approach
The Company materially mitigates this risk through the use of guaranteed and irrevocable delivery versus payment
mechanisms where available.
Settlement bank risk
Risk description
The Company is exposed to the risk that a settlement bank could fail, creating credit losses and liquidity pressures
for the Company.
Risk management approach
The Company uses a combination of central bank, payment agent and commercial settlement bank models. The
policy requires that only minimal unsecured balances at commercial settlement banks remain overnight, placing the
majority at available central banks. Any such unsecured balances are deducted from commercial bank deposit
limits. Intraday exposures to commercial banks are also monitored and closely controlled.
For monies due from clearing members, if the payment agent or commercial settlement bank is not able to transfer
funds to the Company, the clearing members remain liable for the fulfilment of their payment obligations.
Risk policies specify minimum credit scores for all payment and settlement intermediaries and that these are
monitored continually, with a full counterparty credit review conducted annually and a full due diligence exercise
carried out at least every two years. The counterparty credit scores are derived from the framework described
under Credit Risk above.
Custody risk
Risk description
Custody risk is the risk of loss on securities in safekeeping as a result of the custodian’s insolvency, negligence,
misuse of assets, poor administration or inadequate record keeping.
Risk management approach
Although the risk of insolvency of central securities depositories or custodian banks used by the Company is low
the Company mitigates this risk through a due diligence framework ensuring appropriate legal arrangements and
operational processes, in addition, policy sets minimum eligibility requirements and requires regular credit
assessment and back-up contingency arrangements to be in place.

Page 24

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

Capital risk
Risk description
Capital risk is the risk that the Company may not maintain sufficient capital to meet its obligations. This includes
the risks that regulators may increase capital requirements or that own capital levels may become eroded. Capital
is specifically allocated, and therefore at risk ahead of clearing member resources, in the event of either a clearing
member or investment counterparty default. In addition, capital may be at risk to operational losses in excess of
insurance protection.
Risk management approach
The Company’s approach to capital management and a review of the current regulatory requirements are detailed
in note 21. In addition:
• the default waterfalls for each clearing service feature the Company’s capital, to be utilised after the
defaulted clearing member’s collateral and default fund contributions and before the balance of the
mutualised default funds and further, non-prefunded, resources available from the clearing members. In
aggregate this capital at risk is equivalent to 25% of regulatory capital requirement
• the Company can manage its capital structure by varying returns to shareholders, issuing new shares or
increasing or reducing borrowings
Operational risk
Risk description
Operational risk is the risk of loss arising through failures associated with personnel, processes or systems or from
external events. It is inherent in every business organisation and covers a wide spectrum of issues. First line
operational risk is managed by the business, for example through procedures, documentation of processes,
independent authorisation and reconciliation of transactions.
Risk management approach
The Company has adopted a framework, supported by tailored enterprise-wide software, systematically to identify,
assess, monitor and manage operational risks. This is achieved through self assessment of risks and controls, the
collection and analysis of loss data and the development of key risk indicators as appropriate, enabling the
embedding of operational risk awareness within the corporate culture. An independent department performs
second line operational risk management, validating the self-assessments of risks and controls and reporting on
operational risk to senior management and Board.
Business operations are subject to a programme of internal audit reviews, which are independent of line
management, and the results are reported directly to the Company’s senior management and Audit Committees.
Following each review, management will put in place an action plan to address any issues identified. Internal Audit
evaluates the adequacy and effectiveness of the Company’s systems of internal control, as well as the level of
compliance with policies, and reports, in addition to management’s own combined assurance reporting, to the Audit
Committees and senior management. Any significant weaknesses are reported to the Board.
The Company maintains comprehensive contingency plans to support its operations and ensure business
continuity. These facilities are regularly tested.
Other risks
Pension risk
Pension risk arises from the potential deficit in the Company’s defined benefit pension plans due to a number of
factors such as mortality rates or changes in inflation assumptions. The schemes are exposed to inflation, interest
rate risks and changes in the life expectancy for members.

Page 25

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

Legal, compliance and regulatory risk
These risk categories include the risk arising from the potential that unenforceable contracts, lawsuits, or adverse
judgements can disrupt or otherwise negatively affect the operations or condition of the organisation, and the risk of
loss of license or other penalties imposed due to non-compliance with regulations governing clearing house
activities in each jurisdiction in which the Company operates. It is the responsibility of the Heads of the Legal,
Regulatory and Compliance functions to provide assurance to the Board that these risks are measured and
monitored, while the responsibility for any mitigation actions resides with the relevant business and functional
heads.
In the normal course of business, the Company receives legal claims in respect of commercial, employment and
other matters. Where a claim is more likely than not to result in an economic outflow of benefits from the Company
(and is measureable), a provision is made representing the expected cost of settling such claims.
Reputational risk
The maintenance of the Company’s strong reputation is key to its continued profitability and is the responsibility of
the Board, management and staff. In particular the efficiency, reliability and effectiveness of the day to day
operations of the Company are paramount to its reputation.
Business and strategic risks
Business risk is the risk of loss or profit decrease where declining volumes lead to lower revenues which cannot be
offset by adjusting variable costs within a reasonable time period, while strategic risk is the risk of reduction in
earnings or capital arising from adverse business decisions, improper implementation of decisions, or lack of
responsiveness to industry changes. Business heads are responsible for managing these risks and liaising closely
with the Board when issues arise.
Project risk and business continuity, information security and cyber risks
These risk categories include the risk to earnings and capital arising from project execution deficiencies, the risk of
loss arising from the disruption of critical business or IT processes due to adverse circumstances or events, and the
risk that valuable and sensitive Company data is compromised, lost and/or misused. The heads of dedicated
business functions and of each business are responsible for managing these risks.
Model risk
This is the risk that, for example, a margin model may not capture the essence of the stress loss/events being
modelled, or that there are mistakes in the underlying calculation, which may result in systemic under-margining for
the products in question. Model risk management is the responsibility of the heads of business lines which place
reliance on the models, and is effected through appropriate testing and maintenance of the models and in particular
through the strict governance required for model change, including independent expert validation and senior
executive approval.
Default management risk
The additional risk arising from not having a well defined process in place prior to a default event, so that valuable
time may be lost trying to reconcile positions, contacting the relevant people, etc, leading to a material deterioration
in the market value of assets held. For each service, it is the joint responsibility of the Chief Risk Officer and the
relevant business head to ensure that a functioning Default Management Group is in place in accordance with
Company policies and guidelines, and that drills are held regularly to ensure the default management process
functions smoothly.

Page 26

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

3.

Operating expenses

The following items are included in operating expenses (total operating expenses include impairment and nonrecurring items; a full analysis is given in note 4):

Employee costs (note 17)
Depreciation and amortisation (see below)
Other operating expenses
Total operating expenses

Depreciation and amortisation
Amortisation of intangible assets
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
Impairment of intangible assets

2015
€'m

2014
€'m

31.9
9.5
43.4
84.8

32.2
8.4
53.3
93.9

2015
€'m

2014
€'m

8.1
1.4
9.5

6.4
2.0
8.4

3.5

3.9

0.7
0.7

0.7
0.2
0.9

2015
€'m

2014
€'m

0.1
0.6
0.7

(8.5)
1.7
(6.8)

Other operating expenditure includes
Property lease rentals
Auditor's remuneration
Audit fees
Other assurance services

4.

Impairment and non-recurring items

Net settlement costs in relation to past default exercise
Synergy plan credits including social plan
Other
Net impairment and non-recurring items

Page 27

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

5. Finance income
2015
€'m

2014
€'m

3.4
(0.2)
3.2

0.3
0.3

2015
€'m

2014
€'m

France current tax charge
Adjustments in respect of current taxation in previous years
Other European locations current tax charge

(11.4)
(1.9)

1.0
(0.9)

Total current taxation

(13.3)

0.1

Relating to the origination and reversal of temporary differences
Use of tax loss carryforwards

(1.1)
(0.7)

(6.4)
-

Total deferred taxation

(1.8)

(6.4)

(15.1)

(6.3)

Tax relating to remeasurement gains on French defined benefit plans
Tax relating to remeasurement (gains)/losses on other European defined
benefit plans

(0.2)

-

(0.1)

0.2

Tax (expense)/credit reported in the statement of comprehensive income

(0.3)

0.2

Finance income
Dividends received
Interest received on own funds
Total finance income

6. Taxation
The major components of taxation expense are:

Current tax

Deferred tax

Tax expense reported in the income statement

Consolidated statement of comprehensive income

Page 28

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

Reconciliation of tax expense
The income statement tax charge for the year differs from the standard rate of corporate tax in France as explained
below:

Reconciliation of tax expense

2015
€'m

2014
€'m

Accounting profit before taxation
Tax at French statutory corporation tax rate of 33.33%

49.2
16.4

22.8
7.6

-

(1.0)

(0.5)

(0.3)

(0.8)
15.1
33.3%

6.3
33.3%

Effect of:
Adjustments in respect of prior periods
Net effect of different tax rates of other European locations
Others
Total tax charge
Effective corporate tax rate
Deferred tax
Statement of financial
position
2015
2014
€'m
€'m

Income
statement
2015
€'m

2014
€'m

Post-employment benefits

0.9

1.6

(0.3)

(0.9)

Deferred compensation

2.4

1.7

0.7

0.4

Tax on provisions and other temporary differences
Deferred tax charge
Deferred tax asset

0.7

2.9

(2.2)
(1.8)

(5.9)
(6.4)

4.0

6.2

2015
€'m

2014
€'m

6.2
(1.9)

12.3
(6.3)

(0.3)

0.2

4.0

6.2

Net deferred tax asset at 1 January
Deferred tax in income statement
Deferred tax relating to remeasurement gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension
plans
Net deferred tax asset at 31 December

Page 29

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

7. Intangible assets

2015
Selfdeveloped
software

€'m
Cost at 1 January
De-recognition
Additions
Disposals
At 31 December
Accumulated
amortisation at 1
January
De-recognition
Depreciation charge
for the year
Disposals
At 31 December
Net book value at
31 december

2014

Other Goodwill

Selfdeveloped
Total
software

Other

Goodwill

Total

71.3
14.7
(0.2)
85.8

-

52.7
52.7

124.0
14.7
(0.2)
138.5

43.7
17.8
14.8
(5.0)
71.3

17.8
(17.8)
-

52.7
52.7

114.2
14.8
(5.0)
124.0

43.2
-

-

43.6
-

86.8
-

37.6
4.2

4.2
(4.2)

43.6
-

85.4
-

8.1
(0.2)
51.1

-

43.6

8.1
(0.2)
94.7

6.4
(5.0)
43.2

-

43.6

6.4
(5.0)
86.8

34.7

-

9.1

43.8

28.1

-

9.1

37.2

The 2014 comparatives have been amended to correct errors in the movement table. The opening and closing net
book value is unaffected but cost and accumulated amortisation have both been reduced by €16.8 million at 31
December 2014 (31 December 2013: €8.4 million).
The portion of capitalised self-developed software costs disclosed above that relates to software not currently
brought into use amounted to €10.0 million (2014: €3.3 million). No depreciation has been charged during the year
against these assets (2014: €nil), but instead they are tested for impairment (see note 8).
Goodwill consists of the value resulting from the merger of the Company’s branches into LCH.Clearnet SA as
follows: €43.6 million for the Amsterdam branch, €6.5 million for the Porto branch and €2.6 million for the Brussels
branch.
8.

Impairment testing of intangible assets

The Group carries out annual impairment testing on goodwill and intangible assets in December of each year, or
more often if circumstances show that impairment may be likely.
Goodwill is carried in relation to LCH.Clearnet SA, a wholly owned subsidiary, which is also the cash generating unit
(CGU) to which the goodwill is allocated. The recoverable amount associated with this subsidiary is determined based on
value in use calculations.
For intangible assets, impairment is assessed by reviewing the carrying value of the asset against its recoverable
amount, which is determined by value in use calculations for the relevant cash generating unit using discounted cash flow
projections.

Page 30

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

Assumptions
The key assumptions used in the valuations relate to discounted cash flow projections prepared by management
covering a five year period. The cash flow projections are based on the Group’s budget for 2016 and the approved
plan for the two financial years following the last financial year in the budget. Cash flows beyond this period are
extrapolated using the estimated long term growth rates and applying the pre-tax discount rates.
Management has based its value in use calculations for each CGU on key assumptions about short and medium
term revenue and cost growth, long term economic growth rates (used to determine terminal values) and pre-tax
discount rates, as follows:
i) The values assigned to short and medium term revenue and cost growth are based on the 2016 budget
and the Group approved plan. The assumptions are derived from an assessment of current trends,
anticipated market and regulatory developments, discussions with customers and suppliers and
management’s experience. These factors are considered in conjunction with the Group’s long-term
strategic objectives to determine appropriate short and medium growth assumptions
ii) Long term growth rates of 2% (2014: 2%) represent management’s internal forecasts based on external
estimates of GDP and inflation
iii) The pre-tax discount rate of 10.5% (2014: 10.1%) is based on a number of factors including the risk-free
rate, the Group’s estimated market risk premium and a premium to reflect inherent risks
Impairment results
Having completed the tests as described above, goodwill and self developed software were not found to be
impaired.
Sensitivity analysis
Reasonably possible changes in key assumptions and rates at 31 December 2015 are detailed below and the
impact on the impairment recognised noted:
Goodwill
Base case

Adjusted

Increase in
impairment
€’m

Reduction in clearing revenues

various

-10.0%

-

2.0%

0%

-

10.5%

13.5%

-

Base case

Adjusted

Increase in
impairment

Cash flow growth beyond the five year period
Pre-tax discount rate
Self-developed software

€’m
Reduction in clearing revenues
Pre-tax discount rate

Page 31

various

-10.0%

-

10.5%

13.5%

-

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

9. Property, plant and equipment
Leasehold
refurbishment

Computer
equipment

Office
equipment

Total

2.8
-

5.8
(1.6)

0.9
1.6

9.5
-

-

-

0.3

0.3

Disposals
At 31 December

(0.4)
2.4

4.2

(0.1)
2.7

(0.5)
9.3

Accumulated amortisation at 1
January
Reclassification
Depreciation charge for the year
Disposals
At 31 December

2.3
0.1
(0.4)
2.0

4.4
(1.3)
1.1
4.2

0.8
1.3
0.2
(0.1)
2.2

7.5
1.4
(0.5)
8.4

Net book value at 31 december

0.4

-

0.5

0.9

Leasehold
refurbishment

Computer
equipment

Office
equipment

Total

3.2

5.8

0.9

9.9

-

-

-

-

Disposals
At 31 December

(0.4)
2.8

5.8

0.9

(0.4)
9.5

Accumulated amortisation at 1 January
Depreciation charge for the year
Disposals
At 31 December

2.4
0.3
(0.4)
2.3

2.8
1.6
4.4

0.7
0.1
0.8

5.9
2.0
(0.4)
7.5

0.5

1.4

0.1

2.0

As at 31 December 2015 €'m
Cost at 1 January
Reclassification
Additions

As at 31 December 2014 €'m
Cost at 1 January
Additions

Net book value at 31 december

10. Investment in associate

Cost at 31 December

2015
€'m

2014
€'m

19.8

19.9

The Company owns 49% of LCH.Clearnet (Luxembourg) S.à.r.l., a company that holds intellectual property rights.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing consolidation annual financial statements as
its parent company, LCH.Clearnet Group Limited, prepares consolidated financial statements which are publicly
available.
At 31 December 2015, LCH.Clearnet SA owned a €300,470 equity interest in the company SWIFT (2014:
€422,780).

Page 32

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

11. Balances with clearing members

Assets
Fair value of transactions with clearing members (A)
Other clearing member balances

Liabilities
Fair value of transactions with clearing members
Initial margin and other clearing member balances

2015
€'m

2014
€'m

240,025.5
5,462.7
245,488.2

224,695.5
1,981.2
226,676.7

(240,025.5)
(17,209.0)
(257,234.5)

(224,695.5)
(7,617.4)
(232,312.9)

The balances due from clearing members recorded in the statement of financial position of €240,025.5 million
(2014: €224,695.5 million) are fully secured by collateral held by the Company. To date this collateral has not been
utilised.
At 31 December 2015 the total of fully collateralised loans in respect of fixed income transactions was €240,025.5
million (2014: €224,695.5 million). This collateral has in turn, been passed on to fixed income counterparties to
secure the Company’s liabilities in respect of fixed income contracts.
The total net amount of non-cash collateral not recognised on the balance sheet, including that in respect of initial
margin, was €8,899.1 million (2014: €9,688.2 million) and the total amount of guarantees held was €1,007.8 million
(2014: €1,403.7 million). To date this collateral has not been utilised.
Balances with clearing members include €3,678.2 million (2014: €1,744.5 million) due from and €3,323.8 million
(2014: €1,201.7 million) due to Cassa di Compensazione Garanzia S.p.A (CC&G), a fellow LSEG subsidiary
company.

12. Trade and other receivables
2015
€'m

2014
€'m

Non-current
Deposits

0.1

0.1

Current
Other receivables
Prepayments
Amount owed by fellow subsidiary companies
Amount owed by parent company

4.7
0.8
0.7

4.8
1.4
0.2

6.2

6.4

There are no trade and other receivables that are past due or impaired.

Page 33

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

13. Cash and cash equivalents

Cash at bank and in hand
Short-term deposits

2015
€'m

2014
€'m

9,970.2

1,173.2

577.8
10,548.0

4,342.4
5,515.6

The short-term deposits are fully collateralised by sovereign and investment grade corporate securities in
accordance with eligibility criteria approved by the Risk Committee.
Of the total cash and cash equivalents total, €267.2 million (2014: €233.0 million) is own cash. €44.9 million (2014:
€43.1 million) of this amount is restricted as the Company’s own resources to be used in the default waterfall. The
skin in the game is allocated by business line in using the prorate of their contribution to the default fund, with the
exception of CDS for which the amount is fixed; as follows at 31 December 2015: €20.0 million on CDS, €12.2
million on Cash and Derivatives, €11.7 million on Fixed Income and €1.0 million on Collateral basket.
The remaining cash represents the balance of default funds and margin monies placed on deposit for the purpose
of earning investment income.
14. Trade and other payables
2015
€'m

2014
€'m

4.8

5.4

8.9
23.2
2.0
1.4
5.2
4.9
0.4
2.4

6.0
20.4
2.0
0.9
6.5
2.0
5.4

48.4

43.2

Non-current
Employee benefits
Current
Trade payables
Other taxation and social security
Payable related to default
Amount owed to parent company
Amount owed to fellow subsidiary company
Amount owed to associate
Provision for liabilities
Other payables

Provision for liability is related to the restructuring of the derivatives activity.
15. Interest bearing loans and borrowings
There were no outstanding interest bearing loans as at 31 December 2015 (2014: none).
Bank overdrafts
In order to assist with day to day liquidity management the Company maintains a number of uncommitted money
market and overdraft facilities with a number of major banks. Effective interest rates on these facilities vary
depending on market conditions.

Page 34

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

16. Default funds
The purpose of the default funds is to absorb any losses incurred by the Company in the event of clearing member
default if margin collateral is insufficient to cover the management and close out of the positions of the defaulting
clearing member. Default funds are segregated to cover the different business lines of the Company, The total
default funds held by the Company at 31 December 2015 were €2,089.9 million (2014: €2,722.4 million).
17. Employee benefits
i)

Staff costs

All employees and directors
2015
€'m

2014
€'m

Wages and salaries

21.6

21.3

Social security costs

9.7

9.6

Share-based payment costs

0.3

0.1

0.4
32.0
(0.1)
31.9

(0.6)
30.4
1.8
32.2

Pension costs
Staff costs before non-recurring items
Staff costs included in non-recurring items
Total staff costs
Key management personnel

Remuneration
Deferred bonus and other long-term benefits

2015
€’m

2014
€’m

1.2

1.2

-

0.4

0.3

-

Pension contributions

-

-

Compensation for loss of office

-

-

1.5

1.6

Share-based payment costs

Aggregate emoluments of key management personnel

The costs above include deferred bonuses, other long-term incentive plan (LTIP) awards and share-based payment
costs on an accrued basis. Key management personnel consists of the executive director and certain senior staff
who are regarded as running the business on a day to day basis.
The average number of employees during the year was 174 (2014: 178).
Independent directors’ remuneration

Remuneration
Total

2015
€’m

2014
€’m

0.1
0.1

0.2
0.2

Independent non-executive directors received fees for their services. The Board determines fees that reflect the
level of individual responsibilities, attendance of meetings and membership of Board committees. Non-executive
directors representing shareholders did not receive fees.

Page 35

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

ii) Share-based payments
Company employees were eligible to participate in one or more of the following LSEG share option based
arrangements during the financial year:
i.
ii.

The LCH.Clearnet Group Long Term Incentive Plan (LCH LTIP)
The LSEG International Sharesave Plan (SAYE)

The LCH LTIP for the Company involves a conditional award of Performance Shares. Awards are made in the form
of nil-cost options.
Vesting of the LCH LTIP award is initially dependent upon the achievement of a risk management gateway. If this is
achieved, the degree of vesting of the award is assessed against three conditions, measured independently over
three years:
1) Regulatory metric: a qualitative assessment of LCH Group performance on regulatory matters
(comprising up to 34% of the award)
2) Cost metric: a quantitative assessment of qualifying cost savings during the performance period
(comprising up to 33% of the award)
3) EBIT metric: a quantitative assessment of LCH Group earnings before interest/tax (EBIT) performance
at the end of the performance period (comprising up to 33% of the award)
For Internal Audit, Risk and Compliance participants, the Cost and EBIT metrics do not apply. Assuming the risk
management gateway is achieved, the vesting of the award is assessed against the Regulatory metric only.
The risk management gateway will be assessed by the Group Remuneration Committee (‘Committee’) who will
assess if the LCH.Clearnet Group has managed its risk effectively over the three year period. The award lapses in
full if any of the LCH.Clearnet Group CCPs suffers an aggregate loss of more than €12 million (Higher Level
Losses). Equally, if, during the performance period any of the LCH.Clearnet Group CCPs suffers losses below this
level or circumstances arise in the reasonable opinion of the Committee that have or could have resulted in a
significant adverse event which did or could have materially damaged future business operations, the Committee
shall determine whether Management could or should have taken action to prevent such circumstances and may
lapse the award accordingly.
The Regulatory metric shall vest at 100% if it is determined that LCH.Clearnet Group management actions in
relation to regulatory matters were wholly effective during the performance period. If it is determined that
management actions in relation to regulatory matters were not wholly effective during the performance period, then
the Remuneration Committee shall determine a lesser level of vesting as it deems appropriate.
In order for the portion of the Performance Share Award subject to the Cost metric to vest, the Committee, must
determine the amount of cumulative net consolidated qualifying cost savings of the London Stock Exchange Group
achieved over the performance period by reference to specified cost saving projections and adjustments set out in
the rules of the Plan.

Page 36

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

The Cost and EBIT metrics shall vest as follows:
Cost metric: amount of qualifying cost
savings determined to have been
achieved

EBIT metric: EBIT level

Percentage of shares
that vest

2014 award:
€100 million or more
€75 million
€50 million
Below €50 million

€120 million or more
€106 million
€92 million
Below €92 million

100%
62.5%
25%
0%

2015 award:
€50 million or more
€40 million
€30 million
Below €30 million

€152 million or more
€138 million
€124 million
Below €124 million

100%
62.5%
25%
0%

Straight line vesting applies between the relevant percentages listed above in respect of the Cost and EBIT metrics.

At the end of the performance period, the Committee shall calculate LCH Group EBIT for the last financial year in
the performance period, as approved by the LCH.Clearnet Group Limited Audit Committee. EBIT means earnings
before interest, tax and non-recurring items, as reported in the consolidated accounts for LCH.Clearnet Group
Limited, subject to such adjustments as the Remuneration Committee considers necessary to take account of
matters that it considers to be appropriate.
If circumstances occur, which, in the reasonable opinion of the Committee, justify a reduction to awards granted the
Committee may at its discretion reduce an award or not grant future awards. In the event that an award has already
vested, the Committee may determine that a repayment is made. The circumstances and timeframe in which the
Committee may consider it appropriate to exercise such discretions are covered in the Plan Rules.
The SAYE scheme provides for grants of options to employees who enter into a SAYE savings contract; options
are granted at 20% below fair market value. The options vest in full after three years, providing the employee
remains employed by the LCH.Clearnet Group or wider LSEG group of companies.
Movements in the number of share options and awards outstanding and their weighted average exercise price are
as follows:
LCH LTIP

1 January 2014
Granted in year
Exercised in year
Lapsed/forfeited in year
31 December 2014
Granted in year
Exercised in year
Lapsed/forfeited in year
31 December 2015

SAYE schemes

Number

Number

Weighted
average
exercise
price (£)

20,299
20,299
13,040
33,339

22,182
22,182
22,182

12.85
12.85
12.85

None of the options were exercisable as at 31 December 2015 (2014: none). The weighted average exercise price
is nil for the LCH LTIP. The weighted average share price of LSEG plc shares during the year was £24.89 (2014:
£19.56).
Page 37

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

The range of exercise prices and weighted average remaining contractual life of awards and options outstanding
are as follows:

Number
outstanding

Weighted average
remaining
contractual life
Years

LCH LTIP - nil

33,339

1.89

SAYE - over £11.00

22,182

1.28

Total

55,521

1.65

As at 31 December 2015

The fair value of share options granted during the year was determined using a stochastic valuation model. The key
assumptions used in the valuation were as follows:

Grant date
Grant date share price
Options granted
Expected life (years)
Dividend yield
Risk-free interest rate
Volatility
Fair value – non market conditions

LCH LTIP
Performance
shares
2/4/15
£24.84
13,040
3.00
1.4%
0.7%
23%
£23.81

The volatility is based on a statistical analysis of LSEG’s weekly share price since its flotation in July 2001.
The fair value for the options are based on a Black-Scholes model. Holders of share awards and share options are
not entitled to receive dividends declared during the vesting period.
ii) Pension commitments
Defined contribution schemes
The Company pays fixed contributions to the defined contribution scheme in Portugal and there is no legal or
constructive obligation to pay further contributions. The assets of the plan are held separately from those of the
Company in a fund under the control of the trustees. There is no expense charged to the income statement in 2015
and 2014 representing contributions payable to the plan by the Company at rates specified in the rules of the plan.
Defined benefit schemes
The Company has obligations in respect of retirement indemnity and long-service award schemes in Paris. The
provisions have been calculated by a qualified actuary as at 31 December 2015.
The obligations in respect of certain staff in an independent defined scheme in Porto were assumed in 2006. An
updated valuation of these funds was carried out at 31 December 2015 by a qualified independent actuary.
The Company is not aware of any events subsequent to 31 December 2015, which would have a material impact
on the results of the valuations.

Page 38

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

2015
France
Weighted-average assumptions to determine benefit obligations:
2.0%
Discount rate
3.0%
Rate of salary increase
2.0%
Rate of price inflation
n/a
Rate of pension increases

Porto
2.0%
3.0%
2.0%
1.5%

2015
France
Life expectancy from age 60 (years):
Non-retired male member
Non-retired female member
Retired male member
Retired female member

23.3
27.5
23.3
27.5

Porto
20.6
20.6
20.6
20.6

2014
France
1.7%
3.0%
2.0%
n/a
2014
France
23.3
27.5
23.3
27.5

Porto
1.7%
3.0%
2.0%
1.5%

Porto
20.6
20.6
20.6
20.6

Changes in benefit obligation
2015

Benefit obligation as at 1 January
Pension (income)/expense:
Current service cost
Past service gain (curtailment gain)
Net interest
Re-measurement (losses)/gains:
Effect of changes in demographic assumptions
Effect of changes in financial assumptions
Effect of experience adjustments
Reduction in obligation due to settlement
Benefits paid
Foreign exchange
Benefit obligation as at 31 December

2014

France
€’m
5.4

Porto
€’m
0.5

France
€’m
5.0

Porto
€’m
0.4

0.4
0.1

-

0.3
(0.6)
0.2

-

(0.6)
(0.3)
(0.1)
4.9

(0.1)
0.4

0.9
(0.3)
(0.1)
5.4

0.2
(0.1)
0.5

Changes in scheme assets

Fair value of scheme assets as at 1 January
Pension income:
Net interest
Re-measurement gains:
Return on plan assets (excluding interest income)
Employer contributions
Benefits paid
Reduction in assets due to settlement (Amsterdam)
Fair value of scheme assets as at 31 December
Page 39

France
€’m
-

2015
Porto
€’m
0.5

France
€’m
-

2014
Porto
€’m
0.4

-

-

-

-

0.1
(0.1)
-

0.5

0.2
(0.2)
-

0.2
(0.1)
0.5

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

An analysis of the pension assets is set out below:

Fair value of scheme assets with a quoted market price:
Cash and cash equivalents
Equity instruments
Debt / LDI instruments
Real estate
Total

2015
Porto

2014
Porto

0.1
0.1
0.3
0.5

0.1
0.1
0.2
0.1
0.5

Sensitivity analysis
The sensitivity of the value of the benefit obligation to the discount rate is shown below:

Discount rate
Discount rate

2015
France
€’m
4.7
5.1

+25 basis points
-25 basis points

Porto
€’m
0.4
0.5

2014
France
€’m
5.2
5.6

Porto
€’m
0.5
0.5

The sensitivity analyses above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on the
benefit obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting
period.
Payments from the defined benefit schemes
The following payments are expected to be made in future years out of the defined benefit plans’ obligations:
France
€’m
0.1
0.6
1.8
2.5

Within the next 12 months
Between 2 and 5 years
Following 5 years
Total

Page 40

Porto
€’m
-

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

18. Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities
Note
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Fair value of transactions with clearing members

11

Government issued bonds
Available for sale assets
Government issued bonds
Other financial assets in the statement of financial position

2015
€'m

2014
€'m

240,025.5

224,695.5

3,115.1

2,984.3

462.7
3,577.8

102.5
3,086.8

Loans and receivables
Trade and other receivables
Other clearing member balances
Cash and short-term deposits

12
11
13

6.2
5,462.7
10,548.0

6.4
1,981.2
5,515.6

Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
Fair value of transactions with clearing members

11

(240,025.5)

(224,695.5)

Financial liabilities at amortised cost
Trade and other payables (non-cur.)
Initial margin and other member balances
Default funds

14

(48.0)

(41.1)

11
16

(17,209.0)
(2,089.9)

(7,617.4)
(2,722.4)

Prepayments, other taxes and accrued income within trade and other receivables are not classified as financial
assets. Other taxes and deferred income within trade and other payables are not classified as financial liabilities.
Certificates of deposit (both bank issued and government backed) are all carried at fair value. For assets not
marked to market there is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value.
All financial assets held at fair value are designated as such on initial recognition by the Company.
Fair value hierarchy
The Company uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by
valuation technique:
• Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
• Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs, which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are
observable, either directly or indirectly
• Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not
based on observable market data. The Company has no financial instruments in this category

Page 41

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

As at 31 December 2015 the Company held the following significant financial instruments measured at fair value:

€'m

2015
Level 2

Total Level 1

2014
Level 2

Total

240,025.5
-

240,025.5
3,115.1 2,984.3

224,695.5
-

224,695.5
2,984.3

Level 1

Assets measured at fair value
Fair value of transactions with clearing
members
3,115.1
Treasury bills
Government backed, bank issued
462.7
certifactes of deposits
Liabilities measured at fair value
Fair value of transactions with clearing
members

-

-

462.7

102.5

-

102.5

(240,025.5)

(240,025.5)

-

(224,695.5)

(224,695.5)

For assets and liabilities classified as level 1, the fair value is based on market price quotations at the reporting
date.
For assets and liabilities classified as level 2, the fair value is calculated using valuation techniques with market
observable inputs. Frequently applied techniques include forward pricing and swap models using present value
calculations. The models incorporate various inputs including foreign exchange spot and forward rates, interest rate
curves and forward rate curves.
Income statement
Amounts included in the income statement in relation to financial instruments are as follows:
2015
€'m

2014
€'m

Treasury income on assets held at fair value through the income statement

-

0.7

Treasury income on liabilities held at amortised cost
Net fair value gain/(loss) on revaluation of other financial assets held at fair
value included in net interest income

87.9

64.7

1.5

(1.0)

Treasury income

89.4

64.4

(18.8)

(16.5)

(6.9)

(0.7)

Treasury expense on liabilities held at amortised cost

(37.8)

(31.2)

Treasury expense

(63.5)

(48.4)

Net treasury income

25.9

16.0

Finance income on assets held at amortised cost

(0.2)

0.3

Finance expense on liabilities held at amortised cost
Net finance income from financial instruments

(0.2)

0.3

Treasury expense on assets held at fair value
Treasury expense on assets held at amortised cost

Page 42

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

Treasury income includes amounts earned from clearing members’ cash collateral deposits which attract negative
interest rates. Interest expense includes amounts where the Company incurs negative interest in its cash deposits.
The 2014 comparatives have been amended from those previously reported (an increase of €24.8 million to both
treasury income and treasury expense) as a result of amounts of negative interest previously offset against
treasury income being transferred to treasury expense. Net treasury income is unchanged.

Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities
The Company reports financial assets and financial liabilities on a net basis on the balance sheet where there is a
legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to
realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The following table shows the impact of netting
arrangements on all financial assets and liabilities that are reported net on the balance sheet.
Gross
amounts

Amount
offset

Net amount
as reported

Reverse repurchase agreements
Total assets

276,186.1
276,186.1

(36,160.6)
(36,160.6)

240,025.5
240,025.5

Reverse repurchase agreements
Total liabilities

(276,186.1)
(276,186.1)

36,160.6
36,160.6

(240,025.5)
(240,025.5)

Gross amounts

Amount
offset

Net amount
as reported

Reverse repurchase agreements
Total assets

246,066.9
246,066.9

(21,371.4)
(21,371.4)

224,695.5
224,695.5

Reverse repurchase agreements
Total liabilities

(246,066.9)
(246,066.9)

21,371.4
21,371.4

(224,695.5)
(224,695.5)

€'m
As at 31 December 2015

€'m
As at 31 December 2014

As a CCP, the Company sits in the middle of members’ transactions and holds default funds and margin amounts
as a contingency against the default of a member. As such, further amounts are available to offset in the event of a
default reducing the asset and liability of €240,025.5 million (2014: 224,695.5 million) to nil. Default funds for
equities, and derivatives, fixed income and CDS of €1,193.5 million (2014: €1,532.5 million), repos of €819.1 million
(2014: 1,109.9 million) and other transactions of €77.3 million (2014: 80.0million) are held by the Company. In
addition, the company holds margin of €3,962.0 million (2014: 5,646.5 million) for equities and derivatives,
€19,326.3 million for repos (2014: 11,926.2 million) and €1,651.0 million (2014: €1,515.4 million) for other
transactions.

Page 43

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

19. Commitments and contingencies
Operating leases
At 31 December 2015 the Company had annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases. The total
future minimum lease payments due are as follows:
2015
2014
Property
Property
€'m
€'m
Within one year
More than one year, but less than five
More than five years

2.7

2.9

10.9

9.4

8.2

10.7

21.8

23.0

A new lease for the main Paris office commenced from 1 January 2015, expiring 31 May 2024.
The Company has no finance leases.
Supplier agreements
LCH.Clearnet SA and the ATOS group agreed a five year IT service contract, effective on 1 January 2014. The
estimated maximum value of the commitment to December 2018 is up to €37.2 million (2014: €50.3 million),
assuming no early termination.
Treasury assets supporting operational facilities
At 31 December 2015, the Company had assets and collateral in support of Central bank activity which amounted
to €2,239.2 million (2014: €2,613.1 million). LCH.Clearnet SA pledges securities as collateral for clearing activity
with Banque de France for the purpose of securing overnight borrowings.
20. Issued capital and reserves
Share capital
Ordinary shares
The company has 7,416,700 fully paid-up ordinary shares of €15.24 each in issue as at 31 December 2015 (2014:
7,416,700).
No shares were issued in the year. All the Company’s shares are owned by LCH.Clearnet Group Limited.
Other reserves
Share premium
No additional share premium has been recognised on the shares issued in the year.
Other capital reserves
The balance of €43.1 million (2014: € 42.6 million) includes non-distributable reserves of €11.3 million (2014: €11.3
million in 2014).
Distributable reserves
Retained earnings of €145.7 million (2014: €122.6 million) are regarded as distributable.
Page 44

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

On 22 February 2016, the Board of Directors proposed a dividend of €18.0 million (roughly €2.43 per share), which
is scheduled for approval and payment after the General Shareholders’ meeting planned on 9 March 2016.

21. Capital management
Compliance with capital adequacy regulations
The Company’s approach to capital management is to maintain a strong capital base that will support the
development of the business, meet regulatory requirements at all times and maintain good credit ratings. This is
managed with reference to external capital requirements, including a consideration of future impacts of LCH.
Capital plans are included within the Company’s medium-term financial plan which is presented to the Board
annually. The capital plans take into account current and future regulatory requirements and the development of
the Company’s business. The Company monitors capital resources in relation to its capital requirements.
LCH.Clearnet SA is considered a Qualifying Central Counterparty (QCCP) under the European Capital
Requirements Regulations (CRR) as it has received authorisation under European Market Infrastructure
Regulations (EMIR). The Company is registered as a Derivatives Clearing Organization (DCO) in the USA affording
QCCP status for USA members.
LCH.Clearnet SA is regulated as a credit institution by the ACPR and as a CCP and an investment service provider
by l’Autorité des marchés financiers (AMF) in Paris, France. It is subject to standard capital adequacy rules under
EMIR and Basel III. It is also regulated by the CFTC as a DCO in the USA. LCH Clearnet SA is under the process
for registration as a Clearing Agency by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the
clearing of single-name CDS by US Clearing Members
LCH.Clearnet SA is subject to capital adequacy rules under EMIR. Since December 2013, it is also regulated by
the CFTC’s Subpart C rules.
The Company has fully complied with its externally imposed capital requirements in the year.
In particular, it is required to ensure that its EMIR capital requirement is met by both its capital and audited reserves
and adjusted liquid financial resources.
Basel III
In accordance with Basel III Pillar 1 framework, the Company is required to maintain ratio of capital to risk weighted
assets that cannot fall under a threshold of 4% of common equity, 5.5% of Tier 1 capital and 8% of total capital.
22. Related party transactions
Key management personnel
Details of key management personnel and their total remuneration are disclosed in note 17.
Ultimate parent company and group companies
London Stock Exchange Group plc (LSEG) is the ultimate parent company of the Company and the largest group
that prepares consolidated accounts. LCH.Clearnet Group Limited is the immediate parent company and the
smallest group that prepares consolidated accounts.
Copies of the consolidated financial statements for LCH.Clearnet Group Limited for the year ended 31 December
2015 are available from the Company Secretary at the registered office. Copies of the consolidated financial
statements for London Stock Exchange Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 are available from the
Company Secretary, London Stock Exchange Group plc, 10 Paternoster Square, London, EC4M 7LS.

Page 45

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

Other group companies
Sales to and purchases from other group companies are at arm’s length and at normal market rates. Outstanding
balances at the year-end are unsecured and are settled in cash. For the year ended 31 December 2015, the
Company has not raised any provision for doubtful debts relating to amounts owed by other group companies.
Details of transactions with the Company’s parent and fellow subsidiaries which have passed through the income
statement during the year, together with details of outstanding balances, are set out below.

2015
€'m

2014
€'m

0.6

0.5

(3.4)

(6.0)

(2.8)

(5.5)

0.7

1.0

Income statement
Services recharged to fellow subsidiaries
Project recharge income with other fellow companies
Project recharge cost from other fellow companies
Services recharged to other fellow subsidiaries
Services recharged from fellow subsidiaries
Total

3.7
(14.5)
1.1
(9.7)

2.9
(4.2)
0.6
(6.1)
(6.9)

Statement of financial position
Amount due to fellow companies as of 31 December

5.2

4.0

0.2
(9.7)
(9.5)

0.3
(9.1)
(8.8)

4.9

2.2

Transactions with parent companies
Income statement
Services recharged to parent companies
Services recharged from parent companies
Services recharged from parent company disclosed as non-recurring costs
Total
Statement of financial position
Amount due to parent companies as of 31 December
Transactions with fellow companies

Transactions with associate
Income statement
Project recharge income (netted with administrative expenses)
Royalties and maintenance recharged from associate
Total
Statement of financial position
Amount due to associate companies as of 31 December

Page 46

LCH.Clearnet SA
Separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes to the Company accounts (continued)

23. Provisions
In December 2013, the Company initiated a restructuring plan and a net amount of €18.9 million was provided for
on the statement of financial position. The provision was not discounted as it was expected that the provision would
be substantially utilised during 2014.

Restructuring
provision
€'m

As at 1 January 2014
Utilised in the year
As at 31 December 2014

18.9
(16.9)
2.0

As at 1 January 2015
Released in the year
Utilised in the year
As at 31 December 2015

2.0
(0.5)
(1.1)
0.4

24. Government grants
The Company qualifies for Government assistance in the form of crédit d’impôt recherche (CIR) (a research and
development tax credit).
The grant is received as a reduction of the tax expense in the year following that in which the expenditure was
incurred. A reduction to the tax charge for the year ended 31 December 2015 of €0.5 million has been recognised
as the amount due under this initiative (2014: €0.9 million).
The grant is subject to potential tax audit to ensure the eligibility of the expenses claimed. No provision has been
made for any potential refund of the amounts receivable as this is deemed highly unlikely.

Page 47

EXHIBIT J-1
CDSClear Clearable Products: Single Names
Currency

Tenors

Contractual Definitions

Doc Clause

Tier

ISIN

CDSClear Preferred
Reference Obligation
ISIN

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000486409

FR0011274026

0A477B

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010026765

FR0011274026

ACCOR

0A477B

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010720045

FR0011274026

Consumer Services

ACCOR

0A477B

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0011274026

FR0011274026

ACCOR

Consumer Services

ACCOR

0A477B

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000180192

FR0011274026

Adecco S.A.

Industrials

ADO

006DC9

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0126005429

CH0147028200

Adecco S.A.

Industrials

ADO

006DC9

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0104068548

CH0147028200

Adecco S.A.

Industrials

ADO

006DC9

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

CH0016469279

CH0147028200

Adecco S.A.

Industrials

ADO

006DC9

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

CH0189276030

CH0147028200

Adecco S.A.

Industrials

ADO

006DC9

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0250709333

CH0147028200

Adecco S.A.

Industrials

ADO

006DC9

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0425722922

CH0147028200

Adecco S.A.

Industrials

ADO

006DC9

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

CH0147028200

CH0147028200

Altice Finco S.A.

Consumer Services

ALTICFI

LL18G0

500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

XS0946155693

XS0946155693

Aktiebolaget Electrolux

Consumer Goods

ELTLX

0B11AH

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0126231199

XS1148169060

Aktiebolaget Electrolux

Consumer Goods

ELTLX

0B11AH

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0121396757

XS1148169060

Aktiebolaget Electrolux

Consumer Goods

ELTLX

0B11AH

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

SE0001930538

XS1148169060

Aktiebolaget Electrolux

Consumer Goods

ELTLX

0B11AH

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0371500025

XS1148169060

Aktiebolaget Electrolux

Consumer Goods

ELTLX

0B11AH

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1148169060

XS1148169060

Aktiebolaget Electrolux

Consumer Goods

ELTLX

0B11AH

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0356539881

XS1148169060

Aktiebolaget Volvo

Industrials

VLVY

9BAGDB

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0106998270

XS0302948319

Aktiebolaget Volvo

Industrials

VLVY

9BAGDB

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0157960815

XS0302948319

Aktiebolaget Volvo

Industrials

VLVY

9BAGDB

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0415004331

XS0302948319

Aktiebolaget Volvo

Industrials

VLVY

9BAGDB

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0302948319

XS0302948319

Akzo Nobel N.V.

Basic Materials

AKZO

0B11AI

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0060676979

XS0719962986

Akzo Nobel N.V.

Basic Materials

AKZO

0B11AI

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0170265341

XS0719962986

Akzo Nobel N.V.

Basic Materials

AKZO

0B11AI

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0404765710

XS0719962986

Akzo Nobel N.V.

Basic Materials

AKZO

0B11AI

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0719962986

XS0719962986

Akzo Nobel N.V.

Basic Materials

AKZO

0B11AI

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0422084698

XS0719962986

Alcatel Lucent

Technology

ALCLCT

FF1AAK

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000189201

FR0011527225

Alcatel Lucent

Technology

ALCLCT

FF1AAK

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000492092

FR0011527225

Alcatel Lucent

Technology

ALCLCT

FF1AAK

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0564563921

FR0011527225

Alcatel Lucent

Technology

ALCLCT

FF1AAK

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0011527225

FR0011527225

Alcatel Lucent

Technology

ALCLCT

FF1AAK

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010070805

FR0011527225

ALLIANCE BOOTS HOLDINGS LIMITED

Consumer Services

ABHLTD

GG26AM

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0097335318

XS0097335318

ALSTOM

Industrials

ALSTOM

0C3368

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000495673

FR0010850701

ALSTOM

Industrials

ALSTOM

0C3368

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010167254

FR0010850701

ALSTOM

Industrials

ALSTOM

0C3368

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010850701

FR0010850701

ALSTOM

Industrials

ALSTOM

0C3368

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0011531631

FR0010850701

ALSTOM

Industrials

ALSTOM

0C3368

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010801761

FR0010850701

ALTADIS SA

Consumer Goods

ALT

EE475E

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0176837309

XS0176838372

ALTADIS SA

Consumer Goods

ALT

EE475E

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0176838372

XS0176838372

Anglo American plc

Basic Materials

AAUK

037CDU

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0146292387

USG03762CE22

Anglo American plc

Basic Materials

AAUK

037CDU

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0177703732

USG03762CE22

Anglo American plc

Basic Materials

AAUK

037CDU

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0169443784

USG03762CE22

Anglo American plc

Basic Materials

AAUK

037CDU

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0424806734

USG03762CE22

Anglo American plc

Basic Materials

AAUK

037CDU

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

USG03762CE22

USG03762CE22

Anglo American plc

Basic Materials

AAUK

037CDU

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0358158052

USG03762CE22

Anheuser-Busch InBev

Consumer Goods

ANBUS

BB347Q

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

BE0934985020

BE0934985020

ArcelorMittal

Basic Materials

ARMLL

LL332J

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

US46489NAD49

US03938LAF13

ArcelorMittal

Basic Materials

ARMLL

LL332J

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US03938LAD64

US03938LAF13

ArcelorMittal

Basic Materials

ARMLL

LL332J

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0431928760

US03938LAF13

Markit 6 Digit RED Code
Eligible Fixed Rate
(in bps)

Reference Entity Name

Sector

Markit Ticker

ACCOR

Consumer Services

ACCOR

0A477B

ACCOR

Consumer Services

ACCOR

ACCOR

Consumer Services

ACCOR

Eligible Reference Obligations

CDSClear Clearable Products: Single Names
Currency

Tenors

Contractual Definitions

Doc Clause

Tier

ISIN

CDSClear Preferred
Reference Obligation
ISIN

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0431928414

US03938LAF13

LL332J

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US460377AB08

US03938LAF13

LL332J

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US03938LAF13

US03938LAF13

ARDAPAC

GG49CQ

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0547019777

XS0547019777

Industrials

ASTL

TT58BN

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1000393899

XS1000393899

ASTRAZENECA PLC

Healthcare

AZN

04A988

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US98934KAB61

US046353AB45

ASTRAZENECA PLC

Healthcare

AZN

04A988

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US046353AB45

US046353AB45

ASTRAZENECA PLC

Healthcare

AZN

04A988

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0321640301

US046353AB45

ATLANTIA S.P.A.

Industrials

ATSPA

TT594F

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0193945655

XS0193945655

ATLANTIA S.P.A.

Industrials

ATSPA

TT594F

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0744125302

XS0193945655

ATLANTIA S.P.A.

Industrials

ATSPA

TT594F

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0193947271

XS0193945655

BAE SYSTEMS PLC

Industrials

BAPLC

05A75U

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US05523UAA88

XS0789683462

BAE SYSTEMS PLC

Industrials

BAPLC

05A75U

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0099136532

XS0789683462

BAE SYSTEMS PLC

Industrials

BAPLC

05A75U

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0031287849

XS0789683462

BAE SYSTEMS PLC

Industrials

BAPLC

05A75U

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US05523UAE01

XS0789683462

BAE SYSTEMS PLC

Industrials

BAPLC

05A75U

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0789683462

XS0789683462

BAE SYSTEMS PLC

Industrials

BAPLC

05A75U

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

GB0001272664

XS0789683462

BASF Personal Care and Nutrition GmbH

Basic Materials

BAPCG

DD6980

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

XS0300168076

XS0300168076

BASF Personal Care and Nutrition GmbH

Basic Materials

BAPCG

DD6980

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSNOREFOBL00

XS0300168076

BASF Schweiz AG

Basic Materials

BSFSHW

HH6CEH

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0170386998

XS0170386998

BASF SE

Basic Materials

BASFSE

DD6837

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE0008846718

XS0420401779

BASF SE

Basic Materials

BASFSE

DD6837

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE000A0EUB86

XS0420401779

BASF SE

Basic Materials

BASFSE

DD6837

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0420401779

XS0420401779

BASF SE

Basic Materials

BASFSE

DD6837

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE000A0JRFB0

XS0420401779

Bayer Aktiengesellschaft

Healthcare

BYIF

0H99A3

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0145758040

XS0255605239

Bayer Aktiengesellschaft

Healthcare

BYIF

0H99A3

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

USU07229AB00

XS0255605239

Bayer Aktiengesellschaft

Healthcare

BYIF

0H99A3

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0255605825

XS0255605239

Bayer Aktiengesellschaft
Bayerische Motoren Werke
Aktiengesellschaft
Bayerische Motoren Werke
Aktiengesellschaft
Bayerische Motoren Werke
Aktiengesellschaft
Bayerische Motoren Werke
Aktiengesellschaft
Bertelsmann SE & Co. KGaA

Healthcare

BYIF

0H99A3

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0255605239

XS0255605239

Consumer Goods

BMW

0H99B7

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0124494708

XS0173501379

Consumer Goods

BMW

0H99B7

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0162732951

XS0173501379

Consumer Goods

BMW

0H99B7

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0729046218

XS0173501379

Consumer Goods

BMW

0H99B7

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0173501379

XS0173501379

Consumer Services

BERTSE

DE111Q

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0230962853

XS0268583993

Bertelsmann SE & Co. KGaA

Consumer Services

BERTSE

DE111Q

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0811690550

XS0268583993

Bertelsmann SE & Co. KGaA

Consumer Services

BERTSE

DE111Q

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0268583993

XS0268583993

BOUYGUES

Telecommunications Services

BOUY

FG25BN

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010029769

FR0010853226

BOUYGUES

Telecommunications Services

BOUY

FG25BN

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000489171

FR0010853226

BOUYGUES

Telecommunications Services

BOUY

FG25BN

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010212852

FR0010853226

BOUYGUES

Telecommunications Services

BOUY

FG25BN

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010853226

FR0010853226

BOUYGUES

Telecommunications Services

BOUY

FG25BN

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010326975

FR0010853226

BP P.L.C.

Energy

BPLN

05AB84

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US05565QAH11

US10373QAA85

BP P.L.C.

Energy

BPLN

05AB84

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0145526934

US10373QAA85

BP P.L.C.

Energy

BPLN

05AB84

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0205367997

US10373QAA85

BP P.L.C.

Energy

BPLN

05AB84

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0334269411

US10373QAA85

BP P.L.C.

Energy

BPLN

05AB84

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US10373QAA85

US10373QAA85

BRISA - CONCESSAO RODOVIARIA, S.A.

Industrials

BRISCON

XX891M

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

PTBRIHOM0001

PTBRIHOM0001

Markit 6 Digit RED Code
Eligible Fixed Rate
(in bps)

Reference Entity Name

Sector

Markit Ticker

ArcelorMittal

Basic Materials

ARMLL

LL332J

ArcelorMittal

Basic Materials

ARMLL

ArcelorMittal
ARDAGH PACKAGING FINANCE PUBLIC
LIMITED COMPANY
ASTALDI SOCIETA PER AZIONI

Basic Materials

ARMLL

Industrials

Eligible Reference Obligations

CDSClear Clearable Products: Single Names
Currency

Tenors

Contractual Definitions

Doc Clause

Tier

ISIN

CDSClear Preferred
Reference Obligation
ISIN

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

GB0001290138

XS0133582147

1C145A

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0133582147

XS0133582147

BATSLN

1C148C

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0182188366

XS0856014583

Consumer Goods

BATSLN

1C148C

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0094703799

XS0856014583

BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO p.l.c.

Consumer Goods

BATSLN

1C148C

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0171786287

XS0856014583

BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO p.l.c.

Consumer Goods

BATSLN

1C148C

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0189727869

XS0856014583

BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO p.l.c.

Consumer Goods

BATSLN

1C148C

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0856014583

XS0856014583

BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO p.l.c.

Consumer Goods

BATSLN

1C148C

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0352065584

XS0856014583

BRITISH ENERGY BOND FINANCE PLC

Utilities

BEG-Bebf

GH684I

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0210191788

XS0210191788

SKY PLC

Consumer Services

SKYPLC

GOA33D

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0233131118

XS0301676861

SKY PLC

Consumer Services

SKYPLC

GOA33D

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US111013AH19

XS0301676861

SKY PLC
BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS public
limited company
BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS public
limited company
BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS public
limited company
BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS public
limited company
BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS public
limited company
CABLE & WIRELESS LIMITED

Consumer Services

SKYPLC

GOA33D

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0301676861

XS0301676861

Telecommunications Services

BRITEL-BritTel

GH6DA2

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0123684887

XS0097283096

Telecommunications Services

BRITEL-BritTel

GH6DA2

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0103333778

XS0097283096

Telecommunications Services

BRITEL-BritTel

GH6DA2

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0076551695

XS0097283096

Telecommunications Services

BRITEL-BritTel

GH6DA2

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US11102AAA97

XS0097283096

Telecommunications Services

BRITEL-BritTel

GH6DA2

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0097283096

XS0097283096

Telecommunications Services

CAWILD

GJ476R

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0063233679

XS0050504306

CABLE & WIRELESS LIMITED

Telecommunications Services

CAWILD

GJ476R

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0050504306

XS0050504306

CABLE & WIRELESS WORLDWIDE PLC

Telecommunications Services

CAWPLC

GH9BC7

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0468712863

XS0468712863

MONDELEZ UK HLDGS SERVICES LTD

Consumer Goods

MONDUK

GM820K

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

USU12283AB03

USU12283AB03

CAP GEMINI

Technology

CAPP

14C99H

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000476442

FR0011149954

CAP GEMINI

Technology

CAPP

14C99H

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010209387

FR0011149954

CAP GEMINI

Technology

CAPP

14C99H

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010748905

FR0011149954

CAP GEMINI

Technology

CAPP

14C99H

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0011149954

FR0011149954

CASINO GUICHARD-PERRACHON

Consumer Services

GROUPE

FG554O

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000488413

FR0011301480

CASINO GUICHARD-PERRACHON

Consumer Services

GROUPE

FG554O

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000485807

FR0011301480

CASINO GUICHARD-PERRACHON

Consumer Services

GROUPE

FG554O

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0011124601

FR0011301480

CASINO GUICHARD-PERRACHON

Consumer Services

GROUPE

FG554O

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0011301480

FR0011301480

CASINO GUICHARD-PERRACHON

Consumer Services

GROUPE

FG554O

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010455626

FR0011301480

Carrefour

Consumer Services

CARR

FG4CAM

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000480691

FR0010394478

Carrefour

Consumer Services

CARR

FG4CAM

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000492282

FR0010394478

Carrefour

Consumer Services

CARR

FG4CAM

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010526848

FR0010394478

Carrefour

Consumer Services

CARR

FG4CAM

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0369258412

FR0010394478

Carrefour

Consumer Services

CARR

FG4CAM

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010394478

FR0010394478

Centrica plc

Utilities

CENTRI

16B9CT

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0137672381

XS0388006552

Centrica plc

Utilities

CENTRI

16B9CT

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0416397338

XS0388006552

Centrica plc
CIR S.P.A. - COMPAGNIE INDUSTRIALI
RIUNITE
CIR S.P.A. - COMPAGNIE INDUSTRIALI
RIUNITE
Clariant AG

Utilities

CENTRI

16B9CT

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0388006552

XS0388006552

Utilities

CIRINT

TVAHH8

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0169896817

XS0207766170

Utilities

CIRINT

TVAHH8

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0207766170

XS0207766170

Basic Materials

CLAR

HI5CC7

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

CH0010519475

CH0130164418

Clariant AG

Basic Materials

CLAR

HI5CC7

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0249417014

CH0130164418

Clariant AG

Basic Materials

CLAR

HI5CC7

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

CH0030125758

CH0130164418

Clariant AG
COLT TECHNOLOGY SERVICES GROUP
LIMITED
COMPAGNIE DE SAINT-GOBAIN

Basic Materials

CLAR

HI5CC7

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

CH0130164418

CH0130164418

Technology

CTSGL

GI552F

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSNOREFOBL00

XSNOREFOBL00

Industrials

STGOBN

FG872C

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000494973

XS0546725358

Markit 6 Digit RED Code
Eligible Fixed Rate
(in bps)

Reference Entity Name

Sector

Markit Ticker

BRITISH AIRWAYS plc

Industrials

BAB

1C145A

BRITISH AIRWAYS plc

Industrials

BAB

BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO p.l.c.

Consumer Goods

BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO p.l.c.

Eligible Reference Obligations

CDSClear Clearable Products: Single Names
Currency

Tenors

Contractual Definitions

Doc Clause

Tier

ISIN

CDSClear Preferred
Reference Obligation
ISIN

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0109134113

XS0546725358

FG872C

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0294547285

XS0546725358

STGOBN

FG872C

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0428417900

XS0546725358

Industrials

STGOBN

FG872C

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0546725358

XS0546725358

COMPAGNIE DE SAINT-GOBAIN

Industrials

STGOBN

FG872C

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010094623

XS0546725358

COMPASS GROUP PLC

Consumer Services

CPGLN

2C48D6

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0148362501

XS0741004062

COMPASS GROUP PLC

Consumer Services

CPGLN

2C48D6

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0148363814

XS0741004062

COMPASS GROUP PLC

Consumer Services

CPGLN

2C48D6

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0741004062

XS0741004062

COMPASS GROUP PLC

Consumer Services

CPGLN

2C48D6

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1079320203

XS0741004062

COMPASS GROUP PLC

Consumer Services

CPGLN

2C48D6

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0100559037

XS0741004062

Continental Aktiengesellschaft

Consumer Goods

CONTI

2D17E8

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0139722069

XS0969344083

Continental Aktiengesellschaft

Consumer Goods

CONTI

2D17E8

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE000A0BB1Z6

XS0969344083

Continental Aktiengesellschaft

Consumer Goods

CONTI

2D17E8

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE000A1A0U37

XS0969344083

Continental Aktiengesellschaft

Consumer Goods

CONTI

2D17E8

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSNOREFOBL00

XS0969344083

Continental Aktiengesellschaft

Consumer Goods

CONTI

2D17E8

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0969344083

XS0969344083

ConvaTec Healthcare E S.A.

Healthcare

CONVHEA

LMAFFH

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0568044555

XS0568044555

CORUS GROUP LIMITED

Basic Materials

TATAGP-CORUSLTD

GI67CP

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0192575925

XS0192575925

CORUS GROUP LIMITED

Basic Materials

TATAGP-CORUSLTD

GI67CP

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSNOREFOBL00

XS0192575925

Daimler AG

Consumer Goods

DAMLR

DE7C9Q

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US233835AQ08

DE000A1MA9V5

Daimler AG

Consumer Goods

DAMLR

DE7C9Q

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US233835AP25

DE000A1MA9V5

Daimler AG

Consumer Goods

DAMLR

DE7C9Q

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US233835AA55

DE000A1MA9V5

Daimler AG

Consumer Goods

DAMLR

DE7C9Q

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US233835AW75

DE000A1MA9V5

Daimler AG

Consumer Goods

DAMLR

DE7C9Q

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE000A1MA9V5

DE000A1MA9V5

DANONE

Consumer Goods

DANONE

2F999Z

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0202955547

FR0010967216

DANONE

Consumer Goods

DANONE

2F999Z

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010484766

FR0010967216

DANONE

Consumer Goods

DANONE

2F999Z

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010967216

FR0010967216

DANONE

Consumer Goods

DANONE

2F999Z

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0012432912

FR0010967216

DANONE

Consumer Goods

DANONE

2F999Z

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010612713

FR0010967216

Deutsche Bahn Aktiengesellschaft

Consumer Services

DBB

DE8FFT

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0171904583

XS0311212723

Deutsche Bahn Aktiengesellschaft

Consumer Services

DBB

DE8FFT

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE0008628678

XS0311212723

Deutsche Bahn Aktiengesellschaft

Consumer Services

DBB

DE8FFT

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE0001591089

XS0311212723

Deutsche Bahn Aktiengesellschaft

Consumer Services

DBB

DE8FFT

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0164831843

XS0311212723

Deutsche Bahn Aktiengesellschaft

Consumer Services

DBB

DE8FFT

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0311212723

XS0311212723

Deutsche Lufthansa Aktiengesellschaft

Industrials

LUFTHA

2H66B7

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0140276618

XS1109110251

Deutsche Lufthansa Aktiengesellschaft

Industrials

LUFTHA

2H66B7

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0131446055

XS1109110251

Deutsche Lufthansa Aktiengesellschaft

Industrials

LUFTHA

2H66B7

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE000A0JQA39

XS1109110251

Deutsche Lufthansa Aktiengesellschaft

Industrials

LUFTHA

2H66B7

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1109110251

XS1109110251

Deutsche Lufthansa Aktiengesellschaft

Industrials

LUFTHA

2H66B7

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0438813536

XS1109110251

Deutsche Post AG

Industrials

DPW

DEAB47

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE0009279042

XS0862952297

Deutsche Post AG

Industrials

DPW

DEAB47

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0862952297

XS0862952297

Deutsche Post AG

Industrials

DPW

DEAB47

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0862941506

XS0862952297

Deutsche Post AG

Industrials

DPW

DEAB47

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE0008016502

XS0862952297

Deutsche Telekom AG

Telecommunications Services

DT

2H66BC

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US25156PAF09

DE000A0T5X07

Deutsche Telekom AG

Telecommunications Services

DT

2H66BC

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0148956559

DE000A0T5X07

Deutsche Telekom AG

Telecommunications Services

DT

2H66BC

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US25156PAL76

DE000A0T5X07

Deutsche Telekom AG

Telecommunications Services

DT

2H66BC

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE000A0T5X07

DE000A0T5X07

DIAGEO PLC

Consumer Goods

DIAG

2H767T

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US25243EAA10

US25243YAJ82

DIAGEO PLC

Consumer Goods

DIAG

2H767T

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US25243QAB23

US25243YAJ82

DIAGEO PLC

Consumer Goods

DIAG

2H767T

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US25243YAN94

US25243YAJ82

DIAGEO PLC

Consumer Goods

DIAG

2H767T

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US25243YAM12

US25243YAJ82

DIAGEO PLC

Consumer Goods

DIAG

2H767T

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US25243YAJ82

US25243YAJ82

Markit 6 Digit RED Code
Eligible Fixed Rate
(in bps)

Reference Entity Name

Sector

Markit Ticker

COMPAGNIE DE SAINT-GOBAIN

Industrials

STGOBN

FG872C

COMPAGNIE DE SAINT-GOBAIN

Industrials

STGOBN

COMPAGNIE DE SAINT-GOBAIN

Industrials

COMPAGNIE DE SAINT-GOBAIN

Eligible Reference Obligations

CDSClear Clearable Products: Single Names
Currency

Tenors

Contractual Definitions

Doc Clause

Tier

ISIN

CDSClear Preferred
Reference Obligation
ISIN

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0157632562

XS0528872830

GI9F8T

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0804232337

XS0528872830

DIXON

GI9F8T

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0528872830

XS0528872830

Utilities

EONSE

DF6DAH

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0148579153

XS0148579153

EDISON S.P.A.

Utilities

FERRUZ

TW8A7X

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0181582056

XS0557897203

EDISON S.P.A.

Utilities

FERRUZ

TW8A7X

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0114448144

XS0557897203

EDISON S.P.A.

Utilities

FERRUZ

TW8A7X

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0196762263

XS0557897203

EDISON S.P.A.

Utilities

FERRUZ

TW8A7X

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0557897203

XS0557897203

EDISON S.P.A.

Utilities

FERRUZ

TW8A7X

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0441402681

XS0557897203

EDP - Energias de Portugal, S.A.

Utilities

EDP

X3DGB7

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0126990778

PTEDPZOM0003

EDP - Energias de Portugal, S.A.

Utilities

EDP

X3DGB7

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

PTEDPZOM0003

PTEDPZOM0003

EDP - Energias de Portugal, S.A.

Utilities

EDP

X3DGB7

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

PTEDPSOM0010

PTEDPZOM0003

Eileme 2 AB (publ)

Telecommunications Services

EILEAB

WY6955

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0731129747

XS0731129747

Electricite de France

Utilities

EDF

FHBD4H

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0179486526

XS0162990229

Electricite de France

Utilities

EDF

FHBD4H

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000481152

XS0162990229

Electricite de France

Utilities

EDF

FHBD4H

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000491367

XS0162990229

Electricite de France

Utilities

EDF

FHBD4H

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0367001574

XS0162990229

Electricite de France

Utilities

EDF

FHBD4H

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0342783692

XS0162990229

Electricite de France

Utilities

EDF

FHBD4H

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0162990229

XS0162990229

EMI GROUP LIMITED

Consumer Services

EMIG

GJ338L

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0177495107

XSNOREFOBL00

EMI GROUP LIMITED

Consumer Services

EMIG

GJ338L

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0177495289

XSNOREFOBL00

EMI GROUP LIMITED

Consumer Services

EMIG

GJ338L

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSNOREFOBL00

XSNOREFOBL00

EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG

Utilities

BAD

DF796P

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0143721727

XS0271757832

EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG

Utilities

BAD

DF796P

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0143722451

XS0271757832

EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG

Utilities

BAD

DF796P

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0271757832

XS0271757832

ENDESA, S.A.

Utilities

ELESM

2BB7DV

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0162878903

XSNOREFOBL00

ENDESA, S.A.

Utilities

ELESM

2BB7DV

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

ES0230670210

XSNOREFOBL00

ENDESA, S.A.

Utilities

ELESM

2BB7DV

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSNOREFOBL00

XSNOREFOBL00

ENEL S.P.A.

Utilities

ENEL

2BB8B1

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0090698365

XS0306644344

ENEL S.P.A.

Utilities

ENEL

2BB8B1

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0170342868

XS0306644344

ENEL S.P.A.

Utilities

ENEL

2BB8B1

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0170343247

XS0306644344

ENEL S.P.A.

Utilities

ENEL

2BB8B1

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0130266702

XS0306644344

ENEL S.P.A.

Utilities

ENEL

2BB8B1

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0306644344

XS0306644344

ENI S.P.A.

Energy

ENI

28EFBV

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

BE0119198829

XS0741137029

ENI S.P.A.

Energy

ENI

28EFBV

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0112278303

XS0741137029

ENI S.P.A.

Energy

ENI

28EFBV

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0167456267

XS0741137029

ENI S.P.A.

Energy

ENI

28EFBV

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0400780887

XS0741137029

ENI S.P.A.

Energy

ENI

28EFBV

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0451457435

XS0741137029

ENI S.P.A.

Energy

ENI

28EFBV

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

BE0934924383

XS0741137029

ENI S.P.A.

Energy

ENI

28EFBV

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0741137029

XS0741137029

ENI S.P.A.

Energy

ENI

28EFBV

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0411044653

XS0741137029

Airbus Group SE

Industrials

AIGROU

NN2A8F

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0445463887

XS0176914579

Airbus Group SE

Industrials

AIGROU

NN2A8F

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0176914579

XS0176914579

Evonik Degussa GmbH

Basic Materials

RAGAG-EVODEG

DD79BO

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0181557454

XS0181557454

EXPERIAN FINANCE PLC

Consumer Services

EXPGRL-EXPFIN

GJ57CT

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0099323999

XS0585243289

EXPERIAN FINANCE PLC

Consumer Services

EXPGRL-EXPFIN

GJ57CT

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0162820228

XS0585243289

EXPERIAN FINANCE PLC

Consumer Services

EXPGRL-EXPFIN

GJ57CT

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0162821119

XS0585243289

EXPERIAN FINANCE PLC

Consumer Services

EXPGRL-EXPFIN

GJ57CT

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

USG3257NAB22

XS0585243289

EXPERIAN FINANCE PLC

Consumer Services

EXPGRL-EXPFIN

GJ57CT

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0585243289

XS0585243289

FIAT CHRYSLER AUTOMOBILES NV

Consumer Goods

FIATCHR

NQ48AB

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0305093311

XS0305093311

FIAT CHRYSLER AUTOMOBILES NV

Consumer Goods

FIATCHR

NQ48AB

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0647264398

XS0305093311

Markit 6 Digit RED Code
Eligible Fixed Rate
(in bps)

Reference Entity Name

Sector

Markit Ticker

DIXONS RETAIL PLC

Consumer Services

DIXON

GI9F8T

DIXONS RETAIL PLC

Consumer Services

DIXON

DIXONS RETAIL PLC

Consumer Services

E.ON SE

Eligible Reference Obligations

CDSClear Clearable Products: Single Names
Currency

Tenors

Contractual Definitions

Doc Clause

Tier

ISIN

CDSClear Preferred
Reference Obligation
ISIN

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0305093311

XS0305093311

3E9829

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

IT0001469631

XS0182242247

FINMEC

3E9829

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0182242247

XS0182242247

Industrials

FKIL

GJ878Q

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSNOREFOBL00

XSNOREFOBL00

Fortum Oyj

Utilities

FORTUM

XZBGF7

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0180180985

XS0418729934

Fortum Oyj

Utilities

FORTUM

XZBGF7

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0180181447

XS0418729934

Fortum Oyj

Utilities

FORTUM

XZBGF7

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0418729934

XS0418729934

Fortum Oyj

Utilities

FORTUM

XZBGF7

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0258428712

XS0418729934

Fresenius SE & Co. KGaA

Healthcare

FSEKGA

DF9B6J

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0240918218

XS0873432511

Fresenius SE & Co. KGaA

Healthcare

FSEKGA

DF9B6J

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0873432511

XS0873432511

Fresenius SE & Co. KGaA

Healthcare

FSEKGA

DF9B6J

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0390398344

XS0873432511

GAS NATURAL SDG, S.A.

Utilities

GASSM

EJ9DCN

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0107330143

XS0479542580

GAS NATURAL SDG, S.A.

Utilities

GASSM

EJ9DCN

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0181571364

XS0479542580

GAS NATURAL SDG, S.A.

Utilities

GASSM

EJ9DCN

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0436905821

XS0479542580

GAS NATURAL SDG, S.A.

Utilities

GASSM

EJ9DCN

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0458749826

XS0479542580

GAS NATURAL SDG, S.A.

Utilities

GASSM

EJ9DCN

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0479542580

XS0479542580

ENGIE

Utilities

ENGIEAA

2BBAEJ

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000472334

FR0000472334

ENGIE

Utilities

ENGIEAA

2BBAEJ

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010952739

FR0000472334

GKN HOLDINGS PLC

Consumer Goods

GKNLN-Hldgs

3J78MG

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0147740335

XS0103214762

GKN HOLDINGS PLC

Consumer Goods

GKNLN-Hldgs

3J78MG

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0103214762

XS0103214762

Glencore International AG

Basic Materials

GLCORE

HK5754

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0177246575

XS0288783979

Glencore International AG

Basic Materials

GLCORE

HK5754

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0202202957

XS0288783979

Glencore International AG

Basic Materials

GLCORE

HK5754

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0270776411

XS0288783979

Glencore International AG

Basic Materials

GLCORE

HK5754

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0974877150

XS0288783979

Glencore International AG

Basic Materials

GLCORE

HK5754

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0288783979

XS0288783979

Grohe Holding GmbH

Consumer Goods

GROHE

DFAE7A

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0200848041

XS0847049623

Grohe Holding GmbH

Consumer Goods

GROHE

DFAE7A

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

XS0847049623

XS0847049623

Auchan Holding

Consumer Services

AUCHHOL

FF4D9P

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010746008

FR0010746008

Auchan Holding

Consumer Services

AUCHHOL

FF4D9P

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010962134

FR0010746008

HANSON LIMITED

Industrials

HEI-HANSN

GK6AEL

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US411352AA50

US411349AA15

HANSON LIMITED

Industrials

HEI-HANSN

GK6AEL

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US411349AA15

US411349AA15

HAVAS

Consumer Services

HAVAS

FJBDFF

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000180747

FR0010820217

HAVAS

Consumer Services

HAVAS

FJBDFF

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000188476

FR0010820217

HAVAS

Consumer Services

HAVAS

FJBDFF

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010820217

FR0010820217

HeidelbergCement AG

Industrials

HEI

DG48AB

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE0002966850

XS0458685913

HeidelbergCement AG

Industrials

HEI

DG48AB

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0342136313

XS0458685913

HeidelbergCement AG

Industrials

HEI

DG48AB

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0221489155

XS0458685913

HeidelbergCement AG

Industrials

HEI

DG48AB

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0458685913

XS0458685913

HeidelbergCement AG
HELLENIC TELECOMMUNICATIONS
ORGANISATION SOCIETE ANONYME
HELLENIC TELECOMMUNICATIONS
ORGANISATION SOCIETE ANONYME
HELLENIC TELECOMMUNICATIONS
ORGANISATION SOCIETE ANONYME
HELLENIC TELECOMMUNICATIONS
ORGANISATION SOCIETE ANONYME
Henkel AG & Co. KGaA

Industrials

HEI

DG48AB

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE000A0TKUU3

XS0458685913

Telecommunications Services

OTE

4G5657

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0173549659

XS0885718782

Telecommunications Services

OTE

4G5657

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0106765927

XS0885718782

Telecommunications Services

OTE

4G5657

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0885718782

XS0885718782

Telecommunications Services

OTE

4G5657

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0275776283

XS0885718782

Consumer Goods

HENAGK

467A5U

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE0006641962

XS0418268198

Henkel AG & Co. KGaA

Consumer Goods

HENAGK

467A5U

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0418268198

XS0418268198

LafargeHolcim Ltd

Industrials

LAFALTD

HLBDEM

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

CH0187218901

XS0425251542

LafargeHolcim Ltd

Industrials

LAFALTD

HLBDEM

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0425251542

XS0425251542

Iberdrola, S.A.

Utilities

IBERDU

EK77AV

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0097762065

XS0940711947

Iberdrola, S.A.

Utilities

IBERDU

EK77AV

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0163023848

XS0940711947

Markit 6 Digit RED Code
Eligible Fixed Rate
(in bps)

Reference Entity Name

Sector

Markit Ticker

FIAT CHRYSLER AUTOMOBILES NV

Consumer Goods

FIATCHR

NQ48AB

FINMECCANICA S.P.A.

Industrials

FINMEC

FINMECCANICA S.P.A.

Industrials

FKI LIMITED

Eligible Reference Obligations

CDSClear Clearable Products: Single Names
Currency

Tenors

Contractual Definitions

Doc Clause

Tier

ISIN

CDSClear Preferred
Reference Obligation
ISIN

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US81013TAB70

XS0940711947

EK77AV

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0829209195

XS0940711947

IBERDU

EK77AV

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0940711947

XS0940711947

Utilities

IBERDU

EK77AV

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0222372178

XS0940711947

Basic Materials

AKZO-ICILD

GKB89Z

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US449909AL48

US449909AL48

Consumer Goods

IMPEBRA

GKB92C

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0180407602

XS0180407602

INEOS GROUP HOLDINGS LIMITED

Basic Materials

INGHL

GKBGFL

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SECDOM

XS0242945367

XS0242945367

INVENSYS LTD

Industrials

INVENLI

GKDA4K

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSNOREFOBL00

XSNOREFOBL00

ISS A/S

Industrials

ISSNAS

KP558I

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSNOREFOBL00

XSNOREFOBL00

ITV PLC

Consumer Services

ITV

GKDHCE

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0094626941

XS0269885785

ITV PLC

Consumer Services

ITV

GKDHCE

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0076449221

XS0269885785

ITV PLC

Consumer Services

ITV

GKDHCE

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0232037233

XS0269885785

ITV PLC

Consumer Services

ITV

GKDHCE

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0269885785

XS0269885785

J SAINSBURY plc

Consumer Services

SBRY

4AC86D

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0145149539

XS1139087933

J SAINSBURY plc

Consumer Services

SBRY

4AC86D

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0132125112

XS1139087933

J SAINSBURY plc

Consumer Services

SBRY

4AC86D

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0132124735

XS1139087933

J SAINSBURY plc

Consumer Services

SBRY

4AC86D

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1139087933

XS1139087933

J SAINSBURY plc

Consumer Services

SBRY

4AC86D

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0435502769

XS1139087933

JAGUAR LAND ROVER AUTOMOTIVE PLC Consumer Goods

JAGLAN

GL501U

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1025866119

XS1025866119

JAGUAR LAND ROVER AUTOMOTIVE PLC Consumer Goods

JAGLAN

GL501U

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0765386627

XS1025866119

JAGUAR LAND ROVER AUTOMOTIVE PLC Consumer Goods

JAGLAN

GL501U

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0627215378

XS1025866119

Markit 6 Digit RED Code
Eligible Fixed Rate
(in bps)

Reference Entity Name

Sector

Markit Ticker

Iberdrola, S.A.

Utilities

IBERDU

EK77AV

Iberdrola, S.A.

Utilities

IBERDU

Iberdrola, S.A.

Utilities

Iberdrola, S.A.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
LIMITED
IMPERIAL BRANDS PLC

Kabel Deutschland Vertrieb und Service
GmbH
KELDA GROUP LIMITED

Eligible Reference Obligations

Consumer Services

KDVSGM

DJA66I

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

XS0637823864

XS0637823864

Utilities

SLTRW-Kelda

GJ553F

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSNOREFOBL00

XSNOREFOBL00

Kering

Consumer Services

KERIAA

FK976O

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010784082

FR0010784082

Kering

Consumer Services

KERIAA

FK976O

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0011236983

FR0010784082

Kering

Consumer Services

KERIAA

FK976O

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010878991

FR0010784082

KINGFISHER PLC

Consumer Services

KINGFI

4DEC96

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0178322128

XS0178322474

KINGFISHER PLC

Consumer Services

KINGFI

4DEC96

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0100937324

XS0178322474

KINGFISHER PLC

Consumer Services

KINGFI

4DEC96

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0178322474

XS0178322474

Koninklijke Ahold N.V.

Consumer Services

AHOLD

5F04AD

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0140280305

US008685AB51

Koninklijke Ahold N.V.

Consumer Services

AHOLD

5F04AD

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0140280644

US008685AB51

Koninklijke Ahold N.V.

Consumer Services

AHOLD

5F04AD

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US008685AC35

US008685AB51

Koninklijke Ahold N.V.

Consumer Services

AHOLD

5F04AD

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0128973590

US008685AB51

Koninklijke Ahold N.V.

Consumer Services

AHOLD

5F04AD

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

NL0000118560

US008685AB51

Koninklijke Ahold N.V.

Consumer Services

AHOLD

5F04AD

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US008685AB51

US008685AB51

Koninklijke DSM N.V.

Basic Materials

KDSM

NS517V

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

USN65297AR93

XS0326230181

Koninklijke DSM N.V.

Basic Materials

KDSM

NS517V

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0326230181

XS0326230181

Koninklijke DSM N.V.

Basic Materials

KDSM

NS517V

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1293087703

XS0326230181

Koninklijke DSM N.V.

Basic Materials

KDSM

NS517V

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0235117891

XS0326230181

Koninklijke KPN N.V.

Telecommunications Services

KPN

NR6BGI

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US780641AG12

XS0411850075

Koninklijke KPN N.V.

Telecommunications Services

KPN

NR6BGI

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US780641AB25

XS0411850075

Koninklijke KPN N.V.

Telecommunications Services

KPN

NR6BGI

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0411850075

XS0411850075

Koninklijke KPN N.V.

Telecommunications Services

KPN

NR6BGI

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US780641AH94

XS0411850075

Koninklijke Philips N.V.

Consumer Goods

KONIPHI

NTFGGO

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US500472AC95

US500472AB13

Koninklijke Philips N.V.

Consumer Goods

KONIPHI

NTFGGO

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US500472AB13

US500472AB13

LADBROKES PLC

Consumer Services

LADBRK

GL86AK

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0145190681

XS0491875562

LADBROKES PLC

Consumer Services

LADBRK

GL86AK

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0145190921

XS0491875562

LADBROKES PLC

Consumer Services

LADBRK

GL86AK

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0100088755

XS0491875562

CDSClear Clearable Products: Single Names
Currency

Tenors

Contractual Definitions

Doc Clause

Tier

ISIN

CDSClear Preferred
Reference Obligation
ISIN

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0491875562

XS0491875562

555DE7

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010032730

XS0562783034

LAFCP

555DE7

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000481665

XS0562783034

Industrials

LAFCP

555DE7

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US505861AB03

XS0562783034

Lafarge

Industrials

LAFCP

555DE7

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0975113498

XS0562783034

Lafarge
L'AIR LIQUIDE SOCIETE ANONYME POUR
L'ETUDE ET L'EXPLOITATION DES
PROCEDES GEORGES CLAUDE
L'AIR LIQUIDE SOCIETE ANONYME POUR
L'ETUDE ET L'EXPLOITATION DES
PROCEDES GEORGES CLAUDE
L'AIR LIQUIDE SOCIETE ANONYME POUR
L'ETUDE ET L'EXPLOITATION DES
PROCEDES GEORGES CLAUDE
L'AIR LIQUIDE SOCIETE ANONYME POUR
L'ETUDE ET L'EXPLOITATION DES
PROCEDES GEORGES CLAUDE
LANXESS Aktiengesellschaft

Industrials

LAFCP

555DE7

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0562783034

XS0562783034

Basic Materials

AIRLIQ

FG29CJ

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000475550

FR0011439835

Basic Materials

AIRLIQ

FG29CJ

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000487936

FR0011439835

Basic Materials

AIRLIQ

FG29CJ

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0011439835

FR0011439835

Basic Materials

AIRLIQ

FG29CJ

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010765354

FR0011439835

Basic Materials

LNX

DI535D

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0222550880

XS0629645531

LANXESS Aktiengesellschaft

Basic Materials

LNX

DI535D

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0629645531

XS0629645531

LANXESS Aktiengesellschaft

Basic Materials

LNX

DI535D

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0855167523

XS0629645531

LANXESS Aktiengesellschaft

Basic Materials

LNX

DI535D

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0423036663

XS0629645531

Linde Aktiengesellschaft

Basic Materials

LINDE

DI537C

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE0002465952

XS0297700006

Linde Aktiengesellschaft

Basic Materials

LINDE

DI537C

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0297699588

XS0297700006

Linde Aktiengesellschaft

Basic Materials

LINDE

DI537C

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0297700006

XS0297700006

MARKS AND SPENCER p.l.c.

Consumer Services

MKS-M+SPlc

GLDABF

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0138137285

XS0471074582

MARKS AND SPENCER p.l.c.

Consumer Services

MKS-M+SPlc

GLDABF

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0138179105

XS0471074582

MARKS AND SPENCER p.l.c.

Consumer Services

MKS-M+SPlc

GLDABF

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0141727775

XS0471074582

MARKS AND SPENCER p.l.c.

Consumer Services

MKS-M+SPlc

GLDABF

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US57069PAC68

XS0471074582

MARKS AND SPENCER p.l.c.

Consumer Services

MKS-M+SPlc

GLDABF

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0188430721

XS0471074582

MARKS AND SPENCER p.l.c.

Consumer Services

MKS-M+SPlc

GLDABF

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0471074582

XS0471074582

MELIA HOTELS INTERNATIONAL, S.A.

Consumer Services

MEHI

ELA9CI

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0909782921

XS0909782921

MELIA HOTELS INTERNATIONAL, S.A.

Consumer Services

MEHI

ELA9CI

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0469533631

XS0909782921

METRO AG

Consumer Services

METFNL

DI8CFE

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE0002017217

DE000A1MA9K8

METRO AG

Consumer Services

METFNL

DI8CFE

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE0004097142

DE000A1MA9K8

METRO AG

Consumer Services

METFNL

DI8CFE

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE000A0BCGN2

DE000A1MA9K8

METRO AG

Consumer Services

METFNL

DI8CFE

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE000A0NV975

DE000A1MA9K8

METRO AG

Consumer Services

METFNL

DI8CFE

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE000A1C92S3

DE000A1MA9K8

METRO AG

Consumer Services

METFNL

DI8CFE

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE000A1MA9K8

DE000A1MA9K8

METRO AG

Consumer Services

METFNL

DI8CFE

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE000A0XFCT5

DE000A1MA9K8

Metso Oyj

Industrials

METSO

5EB8D8

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0139918121

XS0838968849

Metso Oyj

Industrials

METSO

5EB8D8

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0205081911

XS0838968849

Metso Oyj

Industrials

METSO

5EB8D8

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0838968849

XS0838968849

Metso Oyj

Industrials

METSO

5EB8D8

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0795500437

XS0838968849

NATIONAL GRID PLC

Utilities

NGP

GM9ACP

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0133729771

XS0170798325

NATIONAL GRID PLC

Utilities

NGP

GM9ACP

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US636274AC63

XS0170798325

NATIONAL GRID PLC

Utilities

NGP

GM9ACP

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0213972614

XS0170798325

NATIONAL GRID PLC

Utilities

NGP

GM9ACP

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0170798325

XS0170798325

Nestle S.A.

Consumer Goods

NESTLE

6A516F

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0144994232

CH0028644646

Nestle S.A.

Consumer Goods

NESTLE

6A516F

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0281831270

CH0028644646

Nestle S.A.

Consumer Goods

NESTLE

6A516F

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0582697941

CH0028644646

Nestle S.A.

Consumer Goods

NESTLE

6A516F

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

CH0028644646

CH0028644646

NEW LOOK BONDCO I LIMITED

Consumer Services

NEWLOOAG

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSNOREFOBL00

XSNOREFOBL00

Markit 6 Digit RED Code
Eligible Fixed Rate
(in bps)

Reference Entity Name

Sector

Markit Ticker

LADBROKES PLC

Consumer Services

LADBRK

GL86AK

Lafarge

Industrials

LAFCP

Lafarge

Industrials

Lafarge

GMAA8Y

Eligible Reference Obligations

CDSClear Clearable Products: Single Names
Currency

Tenors

Contractual Definitions

Doc Clause

Tier

ISIN

CDSClear Preferred
Reference Obligation
ISIN

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0169287124

XS0630204351

GMB517

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0630204351

XS0630204351

NOKIA

XD79FA

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSNOREFOBL00

XS0411735482

Technology

NOKIA

XD79FA

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0411735482

XS0411735482

Orange

Telecommunications Services

ORANAA

FLEECZ

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0365094811

XS0365094811

Orange

Telecommunications Services

ORANAA

FLEECZ

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0286705321

XS0365094811

PEARSON plc

Consumer Services

PSON

7H5516

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US705015AB12

US705015AB12

PEARSON plc

Consumer Services

PSON

7H5516

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

USG69651AN02

US705015AB12

PEARSON plc

Consumer Services

PSON

7H5516

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0127535515

US705015AB12

PEARSON plc

Consumer Services

PSON

7H5516

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

GB0006777725

US705015AB12

PEARSON plc

Consumer Services

PSON

7H5516

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0106750655

US705015AB12

PEARSON plc

Consumer Services

PSON

7H5516

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US705010AB25

US705015AB12

PEARSON plc

Consumer Services

PSON

7H5516

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0102793642

US705015AB12

PERNOD RICARD

Consumer Goods

PERNOD

7I568A

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000188286

USF7061BAN04

PERNOD RICARD

Consumer Goods

PERNOD

7I568A

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010398263

USF7061BAN04

PERNOD RICARD

Consumer Goods

PERNOD

7I568A

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010398271

USF7061BAN04

PERNOD RICARD

Consumer Goods

PERNOD

7I568A

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSNOREFOBL00

USF7061BAN04

PERNOD RICARD

Consumer Goods

PERNOD

7I568A

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

USF7061BAN04

USF7061BAN04

PERNOD RICARD

Consumer Goods

PERNOD

7I568A

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010871376

USF7061BAN04

PEUGEOT SA

Consumer Goods

PEUGOT

6FC9LG

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000487159

FR0011439975

PEUGEOT SA

Consumer Goods

PEUGOT

6FC9LG

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010915116

FR0011439975

PEUGEOT SA

Consumer Goods

PEUGOT

6FC9LG

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0011439975

FR0011439975

PEUGEOT SA

Consumer Goods

PEUGOT

6FC9LG

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010957282

FR0011439975

PEUGEOT SA

Consumer Goods

PEUGOT

6FC9LG

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010780452

FR0011439975

Porsche Automobil Holding SE

Consumer Goods

PAUTO

DJ76AK

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE000A0GMHF4

DE000A0GMHG2

Porsche Automobil Holding SE

Consumer Goods

Markit 6 Digit RED Code
Eligible Fixed Rate
(in bps)

Reference Entity Name

Sector

Markit Ticker

NEXT PLC

Consumer Services

NXT

GMB517

NEXT PLC

Consumer Services

NXT

Nokia Oyj

Technology

Nokia Oyj

Eligible Reference Obligations

PAUTO

DJ76AK

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE000A0GMHG2

DE000A0GMHG2

Portugal Telecom International Finance B.V. Telecommunications Services

PLTMPL-IntFin

NU811I

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0124721027

XS0215828913

Portugal Telecom International Finance B.V. Telecommunications Services

PLTMPL-IntFin

NU811I

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0096141337

XS0215828913

Portugal Telecom International Finance B.V. Telecommunications Services

PLTMPL-IntFin

NU811I

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0215828830

XS0215828913

Portugal Telecom International Finance B.V. Telecommunications Services

PLTMPL-IntFin

NU811I

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0215828913

XS0215828913

PostNL N.V.

Industrials

PNL

NU923F

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

NL0006133175

NL0006380537

PostNL N.V.

Industrials

PNL

NU923F

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

NL0006380537

NL0006380537

PostNL N.V.

Industrials

PNL

NU923F

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

NL0000117190

NL0006380537

ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE

Consumer Services

PROSMED

DJ845W

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE000A11QFA7

DE000A11QFA7

PUBLICIS GROUPE SA

Consumer Services

PUBFP

FMD67C

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000188716

FR0012384634

PUBLICIS GROUPE SA

Consumer Services

PUBFP

FMD67C

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000180127

FR0012384634

PUBLICIS GROUPE SA

Consumer Services

PUBFP

FMD67C

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010157354

FR0012384634

PUBLICIS GROUPE SA

Consumer Services

PUBFP

FMD67C

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0012384634

FR0012384634

PUBLICIS GROUPE SA

Consumer Services

PUBFP

FMD67C

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0012384667

FR0012384634

PUBLICIS GROUPE SA

Consumer Services

PUBFP

FMD67C

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010831974

FR0012384634

RALLYE

Consumer Services

GENP

FMDCAQ

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010039107

FR0010815472

RALLYE

Consumer Services

GENP

FMDCAQ

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000473985

FR0010815472

RALLYE

Consumer Services

GENP

FMDCAQ

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010117325

FR0010815472

RALLYE

Consumer Services

GENP

FMDCAQ

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0011441831

FR0010815472

RALLYE

Consumer Services

GENP

FMDCAQ

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010815472

FR0010815472

RELX PLC

Consumer Services

RELXPLC

GNBDCO

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US758202AG01

XS0271070525

RELX PLC

Consumer Services

RELXPLC

GNBDCO

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0271070525

XS0271070525

RENAULT

Consumer Goods

RENAUL

7CEFDA

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000483083

FR0010871541

RENAULT

Consumer Goods

RENAUL

7CEFDA

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000474843

FR0010871541

CDSClear Clearable Products: Single Names
Currency

Tenors

Contractual Definitions

Doc Clause

Tier

ISIN

CDSClear Preferred
Reference Obligation
ISIN

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010483503

FR0010871541

7CEFDA

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010871541

FR0010871541

RENAUL

7CEFDA

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0011052117

FR0010871541

Consumer Goods

RENAUL

7CEFDA

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010025734

FR0010871541

RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC

Industrials

RNTKIL

GNC59O

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0249085852

XS0832466931

REPSOL, S.A.

Energy

REPSSA

EMCDAT

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0172751355

XS0733696495

REPSOL, S.A.

Energy

REPSSA

EMCDAT

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0419352199

XS0733696495

REPSOL, S.A.

Energy

REPSSA

EMCDAT

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0733696495

XS0733696495

REPSOL, S.A.

Energy

REPSSA

EMCDAT

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0831370613

XS0733696495

REPSOL, S.A.

Energy

REPSSA

EMCDAT

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0202649934

XS0733696495

REXEL DEVELOPPEMENT SAS

Industrials

RXLDEV

F7553F

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSNOREFOBL00

XSNOREFOBL00

RHODIA

Basic Materials

RHA

7D85CG

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0126682953

XS0506721827

RHODIA

Basic Materials

RHA

7D85CG

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0169064416

XS0506721827

RHODIA

Basic Materials

RHA

7D85CG

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0177187381

XS0506721827

RHODIA

Basic Materials

RHA

7D85CG

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0270503369

XS0506721827

RHODIA

Basic Materials

RHA

7D85CG

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010464487

XS0506721827

RHODIA

Basic Materials

RHA

7D85CG

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0506721827

XS0506721827

ROLLS-ROYCE PLC

Industrials

ROLLS

7ECCF9

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE0002692506

XS0426014899

ROLLS-ROYCE PLC

Industrials

ROLLS

7ECCF9

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0112533699

XS0426014899

ROLLS-ROYCE PLC

Industrials

ROLLS

7ECCF9

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0188009004

XS0426014899

ROLLS-ROYCE PLC

Industrials

ROLLS

7ECCF9

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0426014899

XS0426014899

ROLLS-ROYCE PLC

Industrials

ROLLS

7ECCF9

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0112487482

XS0426014899

ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC

Energy

RDSPLC

GNDF9A

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0147940349

US822582AC66

ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC

Energy

RDSPLC

GNDF9A

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0165544130

US822582AC66

ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC

Energy

RDSPLC

GNDF9A

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US822582AC66

US822582AC66

RWE Aktiengesellschaft

Utilities

RWE

7BDGCJ

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0158243013

XS0162513211

RWE Aktiengesellschaft

Utilities

RWE

7BDGCJ

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0172851650

XS0162513211

RWE Aktiengesellschaft

Utilities

RWE

7BDGCJ

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0147030554

XS0162513211

RWE Aktiengesellschaft

Utilities

RWE

7BDGCJ

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0127984317

XS0162513211

RWE Aktiengesellschaft

Utilities

RWE

7BDGCJ

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0196302425

XS0162513211

RWE Aktiengesellschaft

Utilities

RWE

7BDGCJ

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0162513211

XS0162513211

SABMILLER PLC

Consumer Goods

SABLN

7FDC9O

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US78572MAD74

US78572MAA36

SABMILLER PLC

Consumer Goods

SABLN

7FDC9O

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US78572MAA36

US78572MAA36

SAFEWAY LIMITED

Consumer Services

AYLL

GNEDEU

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0110106365

XS0093004736

SAFEWAY LIMITED

Consumer Services

AYLL

GNEDEU

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0100362911

XS0093004736

SAFEWAY LIMITED

Consumer Services

AYLL

GNEDEU

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0093004736

XS0093004736

SANOFI

Healthcare

SANFI

F8128F

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0456451771

XS0456451771

SANOFI

Healthcare

SANFI

F8128F

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0367072674

XS0456451771

SANOFI

Healthcare

SANFI

F8128F

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0012969020

XS0456451771

SANOFI

Healthcare

SANFI

F8128F

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

CH0035703070

XS0456451771

SES

Telecommunications Services

SESG

LTB30H

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0180191164

XS0493098486

SES

Telecommunications Services

SESG

LTB30H

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0271527599

XS0493098486

SES

Telecommunications Services

SESG

LTB30H

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0600056641

XS0493098486

SES

Telecommunications Services

SESG

LTB30H

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0493098486

XS0493098486

Siemens Aktiengesellschaft

Industrials

SIEM

8A87AG

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0131224155

XS0369461644

Siemens Aktiengesellschaft

Industrials

SIEM

8A87AG

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0084098465

XS0369461644

Siemens Aktiengesellschaft

Industrials

SIEM

8A87AG

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0413806596

XS0369461644

Siemens Aktiengesellschaft

Industrials

SIEM

8A87AG

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0369461644

XS0369461644

SMURFIT KAPPA ACQUISITIONS

Industrials

MDPAC-SMFIT

GOA7BL

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1074396927

XS1074396927

SMURFIT KAPPA ACQUISITIONS

Industrials

MDPAC-SMFIT

GOA7BL

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

XS0832432446

XS1074396927

Markit 6 Digit RED Code
Eligible Fixed Rate
(in bps)

Reference Entity Name

Sector

Markit Ticker

RENAULT

Consumer Goods

RENAUL

7CEFDA

RENAULT

Consumer Goods

RENAUL

RENAULT

Consumer Goods

RENAULT

Eligible Reference Obligations

CDSClear Clearable Products: Single Names
Currency

Tenors

Contractual Definitions

Doc Clause

Tier

ISIN

CDSClear Preferred
Reference Obligation
ISIN

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0167358331

XSNOREFOBL00

GOA86F

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0155417842

XSNOREFOBL00

MDPAC-SKF

GOA86F

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0155419038

XSNOREFOBL00

MDPAC-SKF

GOA86F

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSNOREFOBL00

XSNOREFOBL00

Industrials

AF-AirFrance

FNC9BR

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

FR0010185975

FR0010185975

SOCIETE AIR FRANCE

Industrials

AF-AirFrance

FNC9BR

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010185975

FR0010185975

SODEXO

Consumer Services

DEXO

FND50F

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000488603

XS1080163709

SODEXO

Consumer Services

DEXO

FND50F

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0408827409

XS1080163709

SODEXO

Consumer Services

DEXO

FND50F

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1080163709

XS1080163709

SODEXO

Consumer Services

DEXO

FND50F

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0292924775

XS1080163709

Solvay

Basic Materials

SOLVAY

8B787A

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

BE0378263603

BE0374557404

Solvay

Basic Materials

SOLVAY

8B787A

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

BE0357905729

BE0374557404

Solvay

Basic Materials

SOLVAY

8B787A

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

BE0374557404

BE0374557404

STATOIL ASA

Energy

STOL

RZC53W

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0099213547

US85771PAB85

STATOIL ASA

Energy

STOL

RZC53W

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US85771PAB85

US85771PAB85

Stena Aktiebolag

Industrials

STENA

W4FCDX

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0287290737

XS0285176458

Stena Aktiebolag

Industrials

STENA

W4FCDX

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0285176458

XS0285176458

STMicroelectronics N.V.

Technology

STM

8E7113

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0173918011

XSNOREFOBL00

STMicroelectronics N.V.

Technology

STM

8E7113

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000484081

XSNOREFOBL00

STMicroelectronics N.V.

Technology

STM

8E7113

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US861012AF95

XSNOREFOBL00

STMicroelectronics N.V.

Technology

STM

8E7113

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSNOREFOBL00

XSNOREFOBL00

STMicroelectronics N.V.

Technology

STM

8E7113

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1083956307

XSNOREFOBL00

STMicroelectronics N.V.

Technology

STM

8E7113

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0247802522

XSNOREFOBL00

Stora Enso Oyj

Basic Materials

STORA

8E831M

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US86210MAA45

XS0830688411

Stora Enso Oyj

Basic Materials

STORA

8E831M

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0113081474

XS0830688411

Stora Enso Oyj

Basic Materials

STORA

8E831M

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

USX8662DAV92

XS0830688411

Stora Enso Oyj

Basic Materials

STORA

8E831M

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0254593188

XS0830688411

Stora Enso Oyj

Basic Materials

STORA

8E831M

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0830688411

XS0830688411

Stora Enso Oyj

Basic Materials

STORA

8E831M

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0194948617

XS0830688411

Suedzucker AG

Consumer Goods

SUEDAG

DLA7AK

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0606202454

XS0606202454

Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA

Consumer Goods

SCACAP

8EFEDF

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0149915653

XS0942094805

Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA

Consumer Goods

SCACAP

8EFEDF

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0246077639

XS0942094805

Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA

Consumer Goods

SCACAP

8EFEDF

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0942094805

XS0942094805

Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA

Consumer Goods

SCACAP

8EFEDF

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

BE0119096775

XS0942094805

Swedish Match AB

Consumer Goods

SWEMAT

8F7339

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0102264651

XS0767319857

Swedish Match AB

Consumer Goods

SWEMAT

8F7339

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0259109154

XS0767319857

Swedish Match AB

Consumer Goods

SWEMAT

8F7339

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0562188580

XS0767319857

Swedish Match AB

Consumer Goods

SWEMAT

8F7339

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0767319857

XS0767319857

TATE & LYLE PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY Consumer Goods

TATELN

8FDBC7

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0150130879

XS0469026453

TATE & LYLE PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY Consumer Goods

TATELN

8FDBC7

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0102568523

XS0469026453

TATE & LYLE PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY Consumer Goods

TATELN

8FDBC7

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US87656XAA90

XS0469026453

TATE & LYLE PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY Consumer Goods

TATELN

8FDBC7

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0469026453

XS0469026453

Techem GmbH

Industrials

TECHGH

DLB48H

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

XS0783934911

XS0783934911

TECHNIP

Energy

TECFPN

FO96DD

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000188237

FR0010828095

TECHNIP

Energy

TECFPN

FO96DD

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010085795

FR0010828095

TECHNIP

Energy

TECFPN

FO96DD

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010828095

FR0010828095

Reference Entity Name
SMURFIT KAPPA FUNDING PUBLIC
LIMITED COMPANY
SMURFIT KAPPA FUNDING PUBLIC
LIMITED COMPANY
SMURFIT KAPPA FUNDING PUBLIC
LIMITED COMPANY
SMURFIT KAPPA FUNDING PUBLIC
LIMITED COMPANY
SOCIETE AIR FRANCE

Markit 6 Digit RED Code
Eligible Fixed Rate
(in bps)

Sector

Markit Ticker

Industrials

MDPAC-SKF

GOA86F

Industrials

MDPAC-SKF

Industrials
Industrials

Eligible Reference Obligations

CDSClear Clearable Products: Single Names
Currency

Tenors

Contractual Definitions

Doc Clause

Tier

ISIN

CDSClear Preferred
Reference Obligation
ISIN

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0124171017

XS0184373925

T2B9EF

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0142531903

XS0184373925

TIIMN

T2B9EF

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0146643191

XS0184373925

Telecommunications Services

TIIMN

T2B9EF

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0146643787

XS0184373925

TELECOM ITALIA SPA

Telecommunications Services

TIIMN

T2B9EF

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0430578632

XS0184373925

TELECOM ITALIA SPA

Telecommunications Services

TIIMN

T2B9EF

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0184373925

XS0184373925

Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson

Technology

LMETEL

WY7EBJ

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0180158387

XS0307504547

Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson

Technology

LMETEL

WY7EBJ

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0097717358

XS0307504547

Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson

Technology

LMETEL

WY7EBJ

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0097717275

XS0307504547

Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson

Technology

LMETEL

WY7EBJ

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0307504547

XS0307504547

TELEFONICA, S.A.

Telecommunications Services

TELEFO

8FGCBA

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US879385AC65

XS0934042549

TELEFONICA, S.A.

Telecommunications Services

TELEFO

8FGCBA

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0162867880

XS0934042549

TELEFONICA, S.A.

Telecommunications Services

TELEFO

8FGCBA

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0800937640

XS0934042549

TELEFONICA, S.A.

Telecommunications Services

TELEFO

8FGCBA

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0934042549

XS0934042549

TELEFONICA, S.A.

Telecommunications Services

TELEFO

8FGCBA

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0241946630

XS0934042549

Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft

Telecommunications Services

TKA

8FGD7T

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0172844283

XS0767278301

Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft

Telecommunications Services

TKA

8FGD7T

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0767278301

XS0767278301

Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft

Telecommunications Services

TKA

8FGD7T

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0409318309

XS0767278301

TELENOR ASA

Telecommunications Services

TELNOR

8FGD80

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0158765064

XS0301954771

TELENOR ASA

Telecommunications Services

TELNOR

8FGD80

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0142660462

XS0301954771

TELENOR ASA

Telecommunications Services

TELNOR

8FGD80

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0301954771

XS0301954771

TELENOR ASA

Telecommunications Services

TELNOR

8FGD80

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0498175503

XS0301954771

TELENOR ASA

Telecommunications Services

TELNOR

8FGD80

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0269252077

XS0301954771

TeliaSonera Aktiebolag

Telecommunications Services

TLIASS

W5EDH9

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0117060029

XS0592627003

TeliaSonera Aktiebolag

Telecommunications Services

TLIASS

W5EDH9

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0101443538

XS0592627003

TeliaSonera Aktiebolag

Telecommunications Services

TLIASS

W5EDH9

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0592627003

XS0592627003

TeliaSonera Aktiebolag

Telecommunications Services

TLIASS

W5EDH9

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0680904827

XS0592627003

TeliaSonera Aktiebolag

Telecommunications Services

TLIASS

W5EDH9

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0218734118

XS0592627003

TESCO PLC

Consumer Services

TSCO

8G96CC

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0146634521

XS0105244585

TESCO PLC

Consumer Services

TSCO

8G96CC

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0159012847

XS0105244585

TESCO PLC

Consumer Services

TSCO

8G96CC

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US881575AA22

XS0105244585

TESCO PLC

Consumer Services

TSCO

8G96CC

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

USG87621AK79

XS0105244585

TESCO PLC

Consumer Services

TSCO

8G96CC

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0199811265

XS0105244585

TESCO PLC

Consumer Services

TSCO

8G96CC

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0105244585

XS0105244585

THE RANK GROUP PLC

Consumer Services

RNK

7C833A

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US753035AB00

US753035AC82

THE RANK GROUP PLC

Consumer Services

RNK

7C833A

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0182099183

US753035AC82

THE RANK GROUP PLC

Consumer Services

RNK

7C833A

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US753035AC82

US753035AC82

THOMSON REUTERS GROUP LIMITED

Consumer Services

TMSNRP-TRGL

GOGAAO

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0180277393

XS0180277393

ThyssenKrupp AG

Basic Materials

TKAGR

DLBCG0

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE0008506254

DE000A1R08U3

ThyssenKrupp AG

Basic Materials

TKAGR

DLBCG0

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0188733207

DE000A1R08U3

ThyssenKrupp AG

Basic Materials

TKAGR

DLBCG0

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE000A0T61K1

DE000A1R08U3

ThyssenKrupp AG

Basic Materials

TKAGR

DLBCG0

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE000A0Z12Y2

DE000A1R08U3

ThyssenKrupp AG

Basic Materials

TKAGR

DLBCG0

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE000A1MA9H4

DE000A1R08U3

ThyssenKrupp AG

Basic Materials

TKAGR

DLBCG0

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE000A1R08U3

DE000A1R08U3

ThyssenKrupp AG

Basic Materials

TKAGR

DLBCG0

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE000A1R0410

DE000A1R08U3

ThyssenKrupp AG

Basic Materials

TKAGR

DLBCG0

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0214238239

DE000A1R08U3

GATES WORLDWIDE LIMITED

Industrials

GATEWOR

GJADBW

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0176337599

XS0176337599

TOTAL SA

Energy

TOTALN

FK9A9I

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000207003

XS0410303647

TOTAL SA

Energy

TOTALN

FK9A9I

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0184119898

XS0410303647

TOTAL SA

Energy

TOTALN

FK9A9I

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0282572956

XS0410303647

TOTAL SA

Energy

TOTALN

FK9A9I

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0303256050

XS0410303647

Markit 6 Digit RED Code
Eligible Fixed Rate
(in bps)

Reference Entity Name

Sector

Markit Ticker

TELECOM ITALIA SPA

Telecommunications Services

TIIMN

T2B9EF

TELECOM ITALIA SPA

Telecommunications Services

TIIMN

TELECOM ITALIA SPA

Telecommunications Services

TELECOM ITALIA SPA

Eligible Reference Obligations

CDSClear Clearable Products: Single Names
Currency

Tenors

Contractual Definitions

Doc Clause

Tier

ISIN

CDSClear Preferred
Reference Obligation
ISIN

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0410303647

XS0410303647

DLC98U

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0929666070

XS0929666070

TRIOHOL

DLC98U

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSNOREFOBL00

XS0929666070

Consumer Services

PREUSS

DLCCCO

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE0003659884

XS1028943162

TUI AG

Consumer Services

PREUSS

DLCCCO

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0191794782

XS1028943162

TUI AG

Consumer Services

PREUSS

DLCCCO

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0237431837

XS1028943162

TUI AG

Consumer Services

PREUSS

DLCCCO

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1028943162

XS1028943162

TUI AG

Consumer Services

PREUSS

DLCCCO

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE000TUAG158

XS1028943162

Unilever N.V.

Consumer Goods

ULVR

994BFC

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US904764AG27

XS0957258212

Unilever N.V.

Consumer Goods

ULVR

994BFC

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0957258212

XS0957258212

Unilever N.V.

Consumer Goods

ULVR

994BFC

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1178970106

XS0957258212

Unilever N.V.

Consumer Goods

ULVR

994BFC

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0230663196

XS0957258212

UNITED UTILITIES PLC

Utilities

UU

9A442R

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US91311QAE52

US91311QAC96

UNITED UTILITIES PLC

Utilities

UU

9A442R

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US91311QAA31

US91311QAC96

UNITED UTILITIES PLC

Utilities

UU

9A442R

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0248039298

US91311QAC96

UNITED UTILITIES PLC

Utilities

UU

9A442R

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US91311QAC96

US91311QAC96

Unitymedia GmbH

Telecommunications Services

UNITYGM

DLD98X

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

USD85456AB30

USD85456AB30

Unitymedia BW GmbH

Telecommunications Services

UNITBW

DLD98V

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSNOREFOBL00

XSNOREFOBL00

UPC Holding B.V.

Consumer Services

LBTG-UPC

NW945H

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0225720084

XS0909769407

UPC Holding B.V.

Consumer Services

LBTG-UPC

NW945H

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0273428416

XS0909769407

UPC Holding B.V.

Consumer Services

LBTG-UPC

NW945H

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0909769407

XS0909769407

UPC Holding B.V.

Consumer Services

LBTG-UPC

NW945H

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

XS0532178000

XS0909769407

UPM-Kymmene Oyj

Basic Materials

UPMKYM

9A6979

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0142044824

US915436AF63

UPM-Kymmene Oyj

Basic Materials

UPMKYM

9A6979

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0102433272

US915436AF63

UPM-Kymmene Oyj

Basic Materials

UPMKYM

9A6979

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US915436AF63

US915436AF63

UPM-Kymmene Oyj

Basic Materials

UPMKYM

9A6979

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US915436AE98

US915436AF63

VALEO

Consumer Goods

VLOF

9AAA47

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010007468

FR0011689033

VALEO

Consumer Goods

VLOF

9AAA47

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000486573

FR0011689033

VALEO

Consumer Goods

VLOF

9AAA47

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010206334

FR0011689033

VALEO

Consumer Goods

VLOF

9AAA47

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0011182112

FR0011689033

VALEO

Consumer Goods

VLOF

9AAA47

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0011689033

FR0011689033

VALEO

Consumer Goods

VLOF

9AAA47

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0011043124

FR0011689033

Vattenfall Aktiebolag

Utilities

VATFAL

W5GGHN

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0118010130

XS0191154961

Vattenfall Aktiebolag

Utilities

VATFAL

W5GGHN

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0109778190

XS0191154961

Vattenfall Aktiebolag

Utilities

VATFAL

W5GGHN

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0093026465

XS0191154961

Vattenfall Aktiebolag

Utilities

VATFAL

W5GGHN

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0268697223

XS0191154961

Vattenfall Aktiebolag

Utilities

VATFAL

W5GGHN

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0170239692

XS0191154961

Vattenfall Aktiebolag

Utilities

VATFAL

W5GGHN

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0191154961

XS0191154961

VEOLIA ENVIRONNEMENT

Utilities

VEOLIA

9BAD68

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010033381

FR0000474983

VEOLIA ENVIRONNEMENT

Utilities

VEOLIA

9BAD68

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0142249555

FR0000474983

VEOLIA ENVIRONNEMENT

Utilities

VEOLIA

9BAD68

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0131326315

FR0000474983

VEOLIA ENVIRONNEMENT

Utilities

VEOLIA

9BAD68

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000474975

FR0000474983

VEOLIA ENVIRONNEMENT

Utilities

VEOLIA

9BAD68

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000474983

FR0000474983

VINCI

Industrials

VINCI

FKDFG6

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000188419

FR0011164888

VINCI

Industrials

VINCI

FKDFG6

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0151548616

FR0011164888

VINCI

Industrials

VINCI

FKDFG6

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0011164888

FR0011164888

VIRGIN MEDIA FINANCE PLC

Telecommunications Services

VIRFIN

GPCA8F

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0190009232

XS0889942990

VIRGIN MEDIA FINANCE PLC

Telecommunications Services

VIRFIN

GPCA8F

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0190009588

XS0889942990

VIRGIN MEDIA FINANCE PLC

Telecommunications Services

VIRFIN

GPCA8F

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0217870434

XS0889942990

VIRGIN MEDIA FINANCE PLC

Telecommunications Services

VIRFIN

GPCA8F

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0432072295

XS0889942990

VIRGIN MEDIA FINANCE PLC

Telecommunications Services

VIRFIN

GPCA8F

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US92769VAA70

XS0889942990

Markit 6 Digit RED Code
Eligible Fixed Rate
(in bps)

Reference Entity Name

Sector

Markit Ticker

TOTAL SA

Energy

TOTALN

FK9A9I

Trionista HoldCo GmbH

Industrials

TRIOHOL

Trionista HoldCo GmbH

Industrials

TUI AG

Eligible Reference Obligations

CDSClear Clearable Products: Single Names
Currency

Tenors

Contractual Definitions

Doc Clause

Tier

ISIN

CDSClear Preferred
Reference Obligation
ISIN

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US92769VAD10

XS0889942990

GPCA8F

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0889942990

XS0889942990

VIRFIN

GPCA8F

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0850236596

XS0889942990

Telecommunications Services

VIVNDI

FOGGHN

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010160929

FR0010830034

Vivendi

Telecommunications Services

VIVNDI

FOGGHN

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010369629

FR0010830034

Vivendi

Telecommunications Services

VIVNDI

FOGGHN

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US92852EAK10

FR0010830034

Vivendi
VODAFONE GROUP PUBLIC LIMITED
COMPANY
VODAFONE GROUP PUBLIC LIMITED
COMPANY
VODAFONE GROUP PUBLIC LIMITED
COMPANY
VODAFONE GROUP PUBLIC LIMITED
COMPANY
VODAFONE GROUP PUBLIC LIMITED
COMPANY
VODAFONE GROUP PUBLIC LIMITED
COMPANY

Telecommunications Services

VIVNDI

FOGGHN

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010830034

FR0010830034

Telecommunications Services

VOD

9BADC3

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US92857TAG22

XS0169888558

Telecommunications Services

VOD

9BADC3

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

USG9387SAM73

XS0169888558

Telecommunications Services

VOD

9BADC3

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US92857TAB35

XS0169888558

Telecommunications Services

VOD

9BADC3

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0166667344

XS0169888558

Telecommunications Services

VOD

9BADC3

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1109802303

XS0169888558

Telecommunications Services

VOD

9BADC3

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0169888558

XS0169888558

VOLKSWAGEN AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT

Consumer Goods

VW

9BAEC8

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0140535229

XS0168881760

VOLKSWAGEN AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT

Consumer Goods

VW

9BAEC8

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0134597037

XS0168881760

VOLKSWAGEN AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT

Consumer Goods

VW

9BAEC8

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0168882495

XS0168881760

VOLKSWAGEN AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT

Consumer Goods

VW

9BAEC8

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0168881760

XS0168881760

Wind Acquisition Finance S.A.

Telecommunications Services

WINDAQ

LUGB7A

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0236096730

XS1055940206

Wind Acquisition Finance S.A.

Telecommunications Services

WINDAQ

LUGB7A

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

XS0560905506

XS1055940206

Wind Acquisition Finance S.A.

Telecommunications Services

WINDAQ

LUGB7A

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1055940206

XS1055940206

Wind Acquisition Finance S.A.

Telecommunications Services

WINDAQ

LUGB7A

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1082636876

XS1055940206

Wind Acquisition Finance S.A.

Telecommunications Services

WINDAQ

LUGB7A

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

XS0438150160

XS1055940206

Wolters Kluwer N.V.

Consumer Services

WOLKLU

9GEFFB

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0181273342

XS0357251726

Wolters Kluwer N.V.

Consumer Services

WOLKLU

9GEFFB

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

NL0000119634

XS0357251726

Wolters Kluwer N.V.

Consumer Services

WOLKLU

9GEFFB

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0907301260

XS0357251726

Wolters Kluwer N.V.

Consumer Services

WOLKLU

9GEFFB

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0357251726

XS0357251726

WPP 2005 LIMITED

Consumer Services

WPPGRP-2005

GPGFFQ

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US92931NAB64

XS0294391684

WPP 2005 LIMITED

Consumer Services

WPPGRP-2005

GPGFFQ

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0131030032

XS0294391684

WPP 2005 LIMITED

Consumer Services

WPPGRP-2005

GPGFFQ

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0329581333

XS0294391684

WPP 2005 LIMITED

Consumer Services

WPPGRP-2005

GPGFFQ

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0294391684

XS0294391684

XSTRATA LIMITED

Basic Materials

XSTRLIM

GPHAA6

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0305188533

XS0305188533

XSTRATA LIMITED

Basic Materials

XSTRLIM

GPHAA6

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0366204393

XS0305188533

HEATHROW FUNDING LIMITED

Industrials

HEATFUN

GK7B9K

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

XS0383001996

XS0383001996

HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft

Industrials

RWE-Hochtief

DG6447

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE000A1TM5X8

DE000A1TM5X8

INEOS Group Holdings S.A.

Basic Materials

INEOGRO

LQ57AU

500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

XS0242945367

XS0928189777

INEOS Group Holdings S.A.

Basic Materials

INEOGRO

LQ57AU

500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

XS0928189777

XS0928189777

Louis Dreyfus Commodities B.V.

Consumer Services

LOUISDR

NS9CH1

500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1000918018

XS1000918018

LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON Consumer Goods

MOET

5F2685

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000495798

FR0011033232

LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON Consumer Goods

MOET

5F2685

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000486151

FR0011033232

LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON Consumer Goods

MOET

5F2685

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0000474223

FR0011033232

LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON Consumer Goods

MOET

5F2685

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010206284

FR0011033232

LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON Consumer Goods

MOET

5F2685

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010765867

FR0011033232

Markit 6 Digit RED Code
Eligible Fixed Rate
(in bps)

Reference Entity Name

Sector

Markit Ticker

VIRGIN MEDIA FINANCE PLC

Telecommunications Services

VIRFIN

GPCA8F

VIRGIN MEDIA FINANCE PLC

Telecommunications Services

VIRFIN

VIRGIN MEDIA FINANCE PLC

Telecommunications Services

Vivendi

Eligible Reference Obligations

CDSClear Clearable Products: Single Names
Tier

ISIN

CDSClear Preferred
Reference Obligation
ISIN

LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON Consumer Goods

MOET

5F2685

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0011033232

FR0011033232

LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON Consumer Goods

MOET

5F2685

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0011625441

FR0011033232

LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON Consumer Goods

MOET

5F2685

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010754663

FR0011033232

NXP B.V.

Technology

NXP

NTBEFL

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0270227316

USN6651LAB38

NXP B.V.

Technology

NXP

NTBEFL

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

USN65965AC42

USN6651LAB38

NXP B.V.

Technology

NXP

NTBEFL

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

US62947QAG38

USN6651LAB38

NXP B.V.

Technology

NXP

NTBEFL

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0298437087

USN6651LAB38

NXP B.V.

Technology

NXP

NTBEFL

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

XS0270226185

USN6651LAB38

NXP B.V.

Technology

NXP

NTBEFL

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

USN6651LAB38

USN6651LAB38

Play Finance 1 S.A.

Telecommunications Services

PLAYFI

LSD98Z

500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

XS0982709494

XS0982709494

REXEL

Consumer Services

PRTP-Rexel

FMEFAL

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0629656496

XS0908821639

REXEL

Consumer Services

PRTP-Rexel

FMEFAL

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0908821639

XS0908821639

TVN Finance Corporation III AB (publ)

Consumer Services

TVNFI

W5GA3C

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0954674668

XS0954674668

UCB

Healthcare

UCB

BKC8B8

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

BE0002428036

BE0002428036

VOUGEOT BIDCO P.L.C.

Consumer Services

VOUGBID

GPCBGG

500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

XS0953085114

XS0953085114

CARLSBERG BREWERIES A/S

Consumer Goods

BRYBDC-Brew

KN9C8H

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0854746343

XS0548805299

CARLSBERG BREWERIES A/S

Consumer Goods

BRYBDC-Brew

KN9C8H

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0548805299

XS0548805299

CARE UK HEALTH & SOCIAL CARE PLC

Healthcare

CARUK

GHAHEH

500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

XS1084823548

XS1084823548

Reference Entity Name

Sector

Markit Ticker

Markit 6 Digit RED Code
Eligible Fixed Rate
(in bps)

Currency

Tenors

Contractual Definitions

Doc Clause

Eligible Reference Obligations

DRY MIX SOLUTIONS INVESTISSEMENTS Industrials

DRYMIX

FI37DX

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

XS1076527875

XS1076527875

GALAPAGOS HOLDING S.A.

Industrials

GALAPHO

LP533U

500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

XS1071420027

XS1071420027

Grupo Isolux Corsan Finance B.V.

Industrials

GRUPOIS

NQAF87

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1046702293

XS1046702293

HEMA BondCo I B.V.

Consumer Services

HEMABON

NQCFAW

500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

XS1075833860

XS1075833860

MATALAN FINANCE PLC

Consumer Services

MATAFIN

5CDB9G

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

XS1070709313

XS1070709313

Monitchem Holdco 3 S.A.

Basic Materials

MONITHO

LRACEI

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

XS1074935229

XS1074935229

NOVAFIVES

Industrials

NOVAFIV

FLC8BW

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

XS1028950886

XS1028950886

Numericable-SFR S.A.

Telecommunications Services

NUMERIAA

FLC895

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

XS1028956222

XS1028956222

Numericable-SFR S.A.

Telecommunications Services

NUMERIAA

FLC895

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1028956149

XS1028956222

PREMIER FOODS FINANCE PLC
Consumer Goods
PUBLIC POWER CORPORATION FINANCE
Utilities
PLC
R&R ICE CREAM PLC
Consumer Goods

PREMFOO

GN93B0

500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

XS1043621090

XS1043621090

PUBLIPO

GN9BGQ

500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1063837741

XS1063837741

RRICEAA

GNE763

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

XS1067602331

XS1067602331

Selecta Group B.V.
STONEGATE PUB COMPANY FINANCING
PLC
Iceland Bondco PLC

Consumer Services

SELEGRO

NUFF79

500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

XS1078234330

XS1078234330

Consumer Services

STONPUB

GOD56N

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

XS1054987216

XS1054987216

Consumer Services

ICELBON

GKBAC5

500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

XS1087777295

XS1087777295

Pizzaexpress Financing 1 PLC

Consumer Services

PIZZAFI

GN8230

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1028948047

XS1028948047

GALP ENERGIA, SGPS, S.A.

Energy

GALPENE

XA37FT

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

PTGALIOE0009

PTGALIOE0009

The Nielsen Company B.V.

Consumer Services

NIECO

NT952F

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0168516713

XS0168516713

The Nielsen Company B.V.

Consumer Services

NIECO

NT952F

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0308136695

XS0168516713

The Nielsen Company B.V.

Consumer Services

NIECO

NT952F

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0168516713

XS0168516713

The Nielsen Company B.V.

Consumer Services

NIECO

NT952F

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0308136695

XS0168516713

UniCredit Bank AG

Financials

UCBAG

DLD61N

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

DE000HV2AHU4

DE000HV2AHU4

UniCredit Bank AG

Financials

UCBAG

DLD61N

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE000HV2AHU4

XSSNRREFOBL0

UniCredit Bank AG

Financials

UCBAG

DLD61N

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSSNRREFOBL0

XSSNRREFOBL0

BNP PARIBAS

Financials

BNP

05ABBF

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0772265756

XS0772265756

BNP PARIBAS

Financials

BNP

05ABBF

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0872705057

XS0772265756

BNP PARIBAS

Financials

BNP

05ABBF

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0895249620

XS0772265756

BNP PARIBAS

Financials

BNP

05ABBF

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0772265756

XSSNRREFOBL0

BNP PARIBAS

Financials

BNP

05ABBF

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0872705057

XSSNRREFOBL0

CDSClear Clearable Products: Single Names
Currency

Tenors

Contractual Definitions

Doc Clause

Tier

ISIN

CDSClear Preferred
Reference Obligation
ISIN

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0895249620

XSSNRREFOBL0

05ABBF

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSSNRREFOBL0

XSSNRREFOBL0

BCPN

05EDBG

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0288641086

PTBITIOM0057

Financials

BCPN

05EDBG

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

PTBITIOM0057

PTBITIOM0057

Banco Comercial Portugues, S.A.

Financials

BCPN

05EDBG

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0288641086

XSSNRREFOBL0

Banco Comercial Portugues, S.A.

Financials

BCPN

05EDBG

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

PTBITIOM0057

XSSNRREFOBL0

Banco Comercial Portugues, S.A.

Financials

BCPN

05EDBG

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSSNRREFOBL0

XSSNRREFOBL0

BARCLAYS BANK PLC

Financials

BACR-Bank

06DABK

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0232785880

XS0768454844

BARCLAYS BANK PLC

Financials

BACR-Bank

06DABK

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0233885531

XS0768454844

BARCLAYS BANK PLC

Financials

BACR-Bank

06DABK

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0445843526

XS0768454844

BARCLAYS BANK PLC

Financials

BACR-Bank

06DABK

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0768454844

XS0768454844

BARCLAYS BANK PLC

Financials

BACR-Bank

06DABK

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0232785880

XSSNRREFOBL0

BARCLAYS BANK PLC

Financials

BACR-Bank

06DABK

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0233885531

XSSNRREFOBL0

BARCLAYS BANK PLC

Financials

BACR-Bank

06DABK

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0445843526

XSSNRREFOBL0

BARCLAYS BANK PLC

Financials

BACR-Bank

06DABK

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0768454844

XSSNRREFOBL0

BARCLAYS BANK PLC

Financials

BACR-Bank

06DABK

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSSNRREFOBL0

XSSNRREFOBL0

COMMERZBANK Aktiengesellschaft

Financials

CMZB

2C27EG

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0100221349

DE000CZ226Y9

COMMERZBANK Aktiengesellschaft

Financials

CMZB

2C27EG

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

DE000CZ302M3

DE000CZ226Y9

COMMERZBANK Aktiengesellschaft

Financials

CMZB

2C27EG

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

DE000CZ226Y9

DE000CZ226Y9

COMMERZBANK Aktiengesellschaft

Financials

CMZB

2C27EG

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0100221349

XSSNRREFOBL0

COMMERZBANK Aktiengesellschaft

Financials

CMZB

2C27EG

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE000CZ302M3

XSSNRREFOBL0

COMMERZBANK Aktiengesellschaft

Financials

CMZB

2C27EG

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE000CZ226Y9

XSSNRREFOBL0

COMMERZBANK Aktiengesellschaft
DEUTSCHE BANK
AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT
DEUTSCHE BANK
AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT
DEUTSCHE BANK
AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT
DEUTSCHE BANK
AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT
ING Bank N.V.

Financials

CMZB

2C27EG

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSSNRREFOBL0

XSSNRREFOBL0

Financials

DB

2H6677

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

DE000DB5S5U8

DE000DB5S5U8

Financials

DB

2H6677

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE000DB5S5U8

XSSNRREFOBL0

Financials

DB

2H6677

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE000DB5S6U6

XSSNRREFOBL0

Financials

DB

2H6677

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSSNRREFOBL0

XSSNRREFOBL0

Financials

INTNED-BankNV

48DGFE

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

NL0000122489

USN4578BQC10

ING Bank N.V.

Financials

INTNED-BankNV

48DGFE

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

USN4578BQC10

USN4578BQC10

ING Bank N.V.

Financials

INTNED-BankNV

48DGFE

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

NL0000122489

XSSNRREFOBL0

ING Bank N.V.

Financials

INTNED-BankNV

48DGFE

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

USN4578BQC10

XSSNRREFOBL0

ING Bank N.V.

Financials

INTNED-BankNV

48DGFE

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSSNRREFOBL0

XSSNRREFOBL0

HSBC BANK PLC

Financials

HSBC-HSBCBank

4I75AU

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0470370932

XS0470370932

HSBC BANK PLC

Financials

HSBC-HSBCBank

4I75AU

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0526606537

XS0470370932

HSBC BANK PLC

Financials

HSBC-HSBCBank

4I75AU

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

USG4639DVV48

XS0470370932

HSBC BANK PLC

Financials

HSBC-HSBCBank

4I75AU

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0470370932

XSSNRREFOBL0

HSBC BANK PLC

Financials

HSBC-HSBCBank

4I75AU

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0526606537

XSSNRREFOBL0

HSBC BANK PLC

Financials

HSBC-HSBCBank

4I75AU

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

USG4639DVV48

XSSNRREFOBL0

HSBC BANK PLC

Financials

HSBC-HSBCBank

4I75AU

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSSNRREFOBL0

XSSNRREFOBL0

SOCIETE GENERALE

Financials

SOCGEN

8B69AP

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0542607683

XS0751525311

SOCIETE GENERALE

Financials

SOCGEN

8B69AP

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0751525311

XS0751525311

SOCIETE GENERALE

Financials

SOCGEN

8B69AP

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0542607683

XSSNRREFOBL0

SOCIETE GENERALE

Financials

SOCGEN

8B69AP

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0751525311

XSSNRREFOBL0

SOCIETE GENERALE

Financials

SOCGEN

8B69AP

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0821220281

XSSNRREFOBL0

SOCIETE GENERALE

Financials

SOCGEN

8B69AP

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSSNRREFOBL0

XSSNRREFOBL0

STANDARD CHARTERED BANK

Financials

STAN-Bank

8D8575

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS1284564579

XS1284564579

STANDARD CHARTERED BANK

Financials

STAN-Bank

8D8575

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0130721169

XS1284564579

STANDARD CHARTERED BANK

Financials

STAN-Bank

8D8575

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0796176799

XS1284564579

STANDARD CHARTERED BANK

Financials

STAN-Bank

8D8575

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1284564579

XS1284564579

Markit 6 Digit RED Code
Eligible Fixed Rate
(in bps)

Reference Entity Name

Sector

Markit Ticker

BNP PARIBAS

Financials

BNP

05ABBF

BNP PARIBAS

Financials

BNP

Banco Comercial Portugues, S.A.

Financials

Banco Comercial Portugues, S.A.

Eligible Reference Obligations

CDSClear Clearable Products: Single Names
Currency

Tenors

Contractual Definitions

Doc Clause

Tier

ISIN

CDSClear Preferred
Reference Obligation
ISIN

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0130721169

XS1284564579

8D8575

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0796176799

XS1284564579

BBVSM

EF2985

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0872702112

ES0214974091

Financials

BBVSM

EF2985

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

ES0214974091

ES0214974091

Financials

BBVSM

EF2985

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0872702112

XSSNRREFOBL0

Financials

BBVSM

EF2985

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

ES0214974091

XSSNRREFOBL0

Financials

BBVSM

EF2985

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSSNRREFOBL0

XSSNRREFOBL0

Financials

SANTNDR

EFAGG9

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0589920205

XS0759014375

BANCO SANTANDER, S.A.

Financials

SANTNDR

EFAGG9

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0877984459

XS0759014375

BANCO SANTANDER, S.A.

Financials

SANTNDR

EFAGG9

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0759014375

XS0759014375

BANCO SANTANDER, S.A.

Financials

SANTNDR

EFAGG9

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0589920205

XSSNRREFOBL0

BANCO SANTANDER, S.A.

Financials

SANTNDR

EFAGG9

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0877984459

XSSNRREFOBL0

BANCO SANTANDER, S.A.

Financials

SANTNDR

EFAGG9

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0759014375

XSSNRREFOBL0

BANCO SANTANDER, S.A.

Financials

SANTNDR

EFAGG9

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSSNRREFOBL0

XSSNRREFOBL0

CREDIT AGRICOLE SA

Financials

ACAFP

FH49GG

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0315528850

FR0010743088

CREDIT AGRICOLE SA

Financials

ACAFP

FH49GG

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0746002392

FR0010743088

CREDIT AGRICOLE SA

Financials

ACAFP

FH49GG

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

FR0010743088

FR0010743088

CREDIT AGRICOLE SA

Financials

ACAFP

FH49GG

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0315528850

XSSNRREFOBL0

CREDIT AGRICOLE SA

Financials

ACAFP

FH49GG

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0746002392

XSSNRREFOBL0

CREDIT AGRICOLE SA

Financials

ACAFP

FH49GG

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010743088

XSSNRREFOBL0

CREDIT AGRICOLE SA

Financials

ACAFP

FH49GG

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSSNRREFOBL0

XSSNRREFOBL0

LLOYDS BANK PLC

Financials

LLOYDBA

GLA88B

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0778434000

XS0778434000

LLOYDS BANK PLC

Financials

LLOYDBA

GLA88B

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0435070288

XS0778434000

LLOYDS BANK PLC

Financials

LLOYDBA

GLA88B

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0550541691

XS0778434000

LLOYDS BANK PLC

Financials

LLOYDBA

GLA88B

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0778434000

XS0778434000

LLOYDS BANK PLC

Financials

LLOYDBA

GLA88B

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0778434000

XSSNRREFOBL0

LLOYDS BANK PLC

Financials

LLOYDBA

GLA88B

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0435070288

XSSNRREFOBL0

LLOYDS BANK PLC

Financials

LLOYDBA

GLA88B

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0550541691

XSSNRREFOBL0

LLOYDS BANK PLC
The Royal Bank of Scotland public limited
company
The Royal Bank of Scotland public limited
company
The Royal Bank of Scotland public limited
company
The Royal Bank of Scotland public limited
company
The Royal Bank of Scotland public limited
company
The Royal Bank of Scotland public limited
company
The Royal Bank of Scotland public limited
company
Bank of Scotland plc

Financials

LLOYDBA

GLA88B

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSSNRREFOBL0

XSSNRREFOBL0

Financials

RBOS-RBOSplc

GNDEGI

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0235714804

XS0254035768

Financials

RBOS-RBOSplc

GNDEGI

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0497707744

XS0254035768

Financials

RBOS-RBOSplc

GNDEGI

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0254035768

XS0254035768

Financials

RBOS-RBOSplc

GNDEGI

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0235714804

XSSNRREFOBL0

Financials

RBOS-RBOSplc

GNDEGI

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0497707744

XSSNRREFOBL0

Financials

RBOS-RBOSplc

GNDEGI

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0254035768

XSSNRREFOBL0

Financials

RBOS-RBOSplc

GNDEGI

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSSNRREFOBL0

XSSNRREFOBL0

Financials

HBOS-ScotBkPLC

GPF79N

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0267635331

XS0267635331

Bank of Scotland plc

Financials

HBOS-ScotBkPLC

GPF79N

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0267635331

XSSNRREFOBL0

Bank of Scotland plc

Financials

HBOS-ScotBkPLC

GPF79N

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSSNRREFOBL0

XSSNRREFOBL0

Credit Suisse Group Ltd

Financials

CSGAG

HK9FHL

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0099472994

XS0099472994

Credit Suisse Group Ltd

Financials

CSGAG

HK9FHL

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0099472994

XSSNRREFOBL0

Credit Suisse Group Ltd

Financials

CSGAG

HK9FHL

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSSNRREFOBL0

XSSNRREFOBL0

UBS AG

Financials

UBS

HPHB2J

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0304031775

XS0304031775

UBS AG

Financials

UBS

HPHB2J

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0359388690

XS0304031775

Markit 6 Digit RED Code
Eligible Fixed Rate
(in bps)

Reference Entity Name

Sector

Markit Ticker

STANDARD CHARTERED BANK

Financials

STAN-Bank

8D8575

STANDARD CHARTERED BANK
BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA,
SOCIEDAD ANONIMA
BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA,
SOCIEDAD ANONIMA
BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA,
SOCIEDAD ANONIMA
BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA,
SOCIEDAD ANONIMA
BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA,
SOCIEDAD ANONIMA
BANCO SANTANDER, S.A.

Financials

STAN-Bank

Financials

Eligible Reference Obligations

CDSClear Clearable Products: Single Names
Markit 6 Digit RED Code
Eligible Fixed Rate
(in bps)

Reference Entity Name

Sector

Markit Ticker

UBS AG

Financials

UBS

HPHB2J

UBS AG

Financials

UBS

UBS AG

Financials

UBS AG

Financials

UBS AG

Eligible Reference Obligations

CDSClear Preferred
Reference Obligation
ISIN

Currency

Tenors

Contractual Definitions

Doc Clause

Tier

ISIN

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0683779275

XS0304031775

HPHB2J

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0304031775

XSSNRREFOBL0

UBS

HPHB2J

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0359388690

XSSNRREFOBL0

UBS

HPHB2J

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0683779275

XSSNRREFOBL0

Financials

UBS

HPHB2J

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSSNRREFOBL0

XSSNRREFOBL0

UNICREDIT, SOCIETA PER AZIONI

Financials

USPA

T2F69Z

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0207065110

XS1055725730

UNICREDIT, SOCIETA PER AZIONI

Financials

USPA

T2F69Z

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0619885725

XS1055725730

UNICREDIT, SOCIETA PER AZIONI

Financials

USPA

T2F69Z

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS1055725730

XS1055725730

UNICREDIT, SOCIETA PER AZIONI

Financials

USPA

T2F69Z

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0207065110

XSSNRREFOBL0

UNICREDIT, SOCIETA PER AZIONI

Financials

USPA

T2F69Z

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0619885725

XSSNRREFOBL0

UNICREDIT, SOCIETA PER AZIONI

Financials

USPA

T2F69Z

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1055725730

XSSNRREFOBL0

UNICREDIT, SOCIETA PER AZIONI
BANCA MONTE DEI PASCHI DI SIENA
S.P.A.
BANCA MONTE DEI PASCHI DI SIENA
S.P.A.
BANCA MONTE DEI PASCHI DI SIENA
S.P.A.
BANCO POPOLARE SOCIETA
COOPERATIVA
BANCO POPOLARE SOCIETA
COOPERATIVA
BANCO POPOLARE SOCIETA
COOPERATIVA
BANCO POPOLARE SOCIETA
COOPERATIVA
INTESA SANPAOLO SPA

Financials

USPA

T2F69Z

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSSNRREFOBL0

XSSNRREFOBL0

Financials

MONTE

TU29GI

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

IT0004804362

IT0004804362

Financials

MONTE

TU29GI

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

IT0004804362

XSSNRREFOBL0

Financials

MONTE

TU29GI

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSSNRREFOBL0

XSSNRREFOBL0

Financials

BPSC

TU9F9X

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS1070681397

XS1070681397

Financials

BPSC

TU9F9X

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0280733725

XS1070681397

Financials

BPSC

TU9F9X

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1070681397

XS1070681397

Financials

BPSC

TU9F9X

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0280733725

XS1070681397

Financials

SANPAO

TYA56D

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0213927667

XS0213927667

INTESA SANPAOLO SPA

Financials

SANPAO

TYA56D

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0304508921

XS0213927667

INTESA SANPAOLO SPA

Financials

SANPAO

TYA56D

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0486454530

XS0213927667

INTESA SANPAOLO SPA

Financials

SANPAO

TYA56D

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0213927667

XSSNRREFOBL0

INTESA SANPAOLO SPA

Financials

SANPAO

TYA56D

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0304508921

XSSNRREFOBL0

INTESA SANPAOLO SPA

Financials

SANPAO

TYA56D

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0486454530

XSSNRREFOBL0

INTESA SANPAOLO SPA

Financials

SANPAO

TYA56D

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSSNRREFOBL0

XSSNRREFOBL0

NOVO BCO SA

Financials

NOVOBAN

X2CB9K

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0772553037

XS0772553037

NOVO BCO SA

Financials

NOVOBAN

X2CB9K

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0210031315

XS0772553037

NOVO BCO SA

Financials

NOVOBAN

X2CB9K

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0772553037

XSSNRREFOBL0

NOVO BCO SA

Financials

NOVOBAN

X2CB9K

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

PTBEQKOM0019

XSSNRREFOBL0

NOVO BCO SA

Financials

NOVOBAN

X2CB9K

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0210031315

XSSNRREFOBL0

NOVO BCO SA

Financials

NOVOBAN

X2CB9K

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSSNRREFOBL0

XSSNRREFOBL0

INTERNATIONAL POWER LTD.

Utilities

INPOWE

GKCH9J

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSNOREFOBL00

XSNOREFOBL00

INTERNATIONAL POWER LTD.
ONO FINANCE II PUBLIC LIMITED
COMPANY
RENTOKIL INITIAL 1927 PLC
YORKSHIRE WATER SERVICES FINANCE
LIMITED
YORKSHIRE WATER SERVICES FINANCE
LIMITED
YORKSHIRE WATER SERVICES FINANCE
LIMITED
COMPAGNIE FINANCIERE DU GROUPE
MICHELIN, "Senard et Cie"
COMPAGNIE FINANCIERE DU GROUPE
MICHELIN, "Senard et Cie"
TDC A/S

Utilities

INPOWE

GKCH9J

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0173110262

XSNOREFOBL00

Consumer Services

ONOSM-ONOFin2

GMDC6Q

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0584389448

XS0584389448

Industrials

RENTPL

GNC58N

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0832466931

XS0832466931

Utilities

KEL-YorkWatfltd

GPHDE2

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0109437441

XS0302074678

Utilities

KEL-YorkWatfltd

GPHDE2

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0163115701

XS0302074678

Utilities

KEL-YorkWatfltd

GPHDE2

100

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0302074678

XS0302074678

Consumer Goods

COMPFIAA

HK7D9F

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0424686573

XS0794392588

Consumer Goods

COMPFIAA

HK7D9F

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0794392588

XS0794392588

Telecommunications Services

TELDAN

KTD999

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0473999984

XS0593960304

TDC A/S

Telecommunications Services

TELDAN

KTD999

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0593960304

XS0593960304

CDSClear Clearable Products: Single Names
Currency

Tenors

Contractual Definitions

Doc Clause

Tier

ISIN

CDSClear Preferred
Reference Obligation
ISIN

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1189795591

XS1189795591

LTH98G

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

XS0548102531

XS1189795591

CNHIND

NP29D8

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0604641034

XS0604641034

Industrials

CNHIND

NP29D8

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1046851025

XS0604641034

Schaeffler Finance B.V.

Consumer Goods

SCHAFIN

NUED68

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

XS0741938624

XS1067864881

Schaeffler Finance B.V.

Consumer Goods

SCHAFIN

NUED68

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1067864881

XS1067864881

Metsa Board Corporation

Basic Materials

METSBOA

XC859Y

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FI4000085550

FI4000085550

UNIBAIL-RODAMCO SE

Financials

UNROSE

FF3BEL

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0451418619

XS0451418619

UNIBAIL-RODAMCO SE

Financials

UNROSE

FF3BEL

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0686597286

XS0451418619

UNIBAIL-RODAMCO SE

Financials

UNROSE

FF3BEL

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0894202968

XS0451418619

GECINA

Financials

GFCFP

FJ68E2

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0011001361

FR0011001361

GECINA

Financials

GFCFP

FJ68E2

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0011233337

FR0011001361

GECINA

Financials

GFCFP

FJ68E2

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0012059202

FR0011001361

GECINA

Financials

GFCFP

FJ68E2

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0010881573

FR0011001361

WENDEL

Financials

WENL

FOHB91

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0011694496

FR0011694496

WENDEL

Financials

WENL

FOHB91

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0253989635

FR0011694496

FCE BANK PLC

Financials

F-FCEBank

GJ669B

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0838847381

XS0838847381

FCE BANK PLC
BENI STABILI SOCIETA PER AZIONI
SOCIETA DI INVESTIMENTO
IMMOBILIARE QUOTATA
Unilabs SubHolding AB (publ)

Financials

F-FCEBank

GJ669B

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0933505967

XS0838847381

Financials

BSTSQ

TUAH8F

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1019171427

XS1019171427

Financials

UNILSUB

500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SECDOM

XS0943769470

XS0943769470

Aegon N.V.

Financials

AEGON

007GB6

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0105290349

XS0805452405

Aegon N.V.

Financials

AEGON

007GB6

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0207767574

XS0805452405

Aegon N.V.
ASSICURAZIONI GENERALI - SOCIETA
PER AZIONI
ASSICURAZIONI GENERALI - SOCIETA
PER AZIONI
ASSICURAZIONI GENERALI - SOCIETA
PER AZIONI
DANSKE BANK A/S

Financials

AEGON

007GB6

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0805452405

XS0805452405

Financials

ASSGEN

0E996B

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0218469962

XS1014759648

Financials

ASSGEN

0E996B

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0452314536

XS1014759648

Financials

ASSGEN

0E996B

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1014759648

XS1014759648

Financials

DANBNK

2F9999

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1072384685

XSSNRREFOBL0

DANSKE BANK A/S

Financials

DANBNK

2F9999

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSSNRREFOBL0

XSSNRREFOBL0

Hannover Rueck SE

Financials

HANNRUE

4F16FD

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSNOREFOBL00

XSNOREFOBL00

Svenska Handelsbanken AB

Financials

SVSKHB

8EFEEL

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0490111563

XS0490111563

Allianz SE

Financials

ALZSE

DD359M

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0275880267

XS0275880267

Allianz SE

Financials

ALZSE

DD359M

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE000A1G0RU9

XS0275880267

AXA

Financials

AXAF

FF667M

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0011380468

FR0011380468

AVIVA PLC

Financials

AVLN

GG6EBT

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0066877258

XS0066877258

Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd

Financials

SWREL

HOB65N

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

CH0012491335

USU7514EAU48

Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd

Financials

SWREL

HOB65N

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

CH0249483683

USU7514EAU48

Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd

Financials

SWREL

HOB65N

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

USU7514EAU48

USU7514EAU48

Zurich Insurance Company Ltd

Financials

ZINCO

HQHEFU

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0423888667

CH0133090610

Zurich Insurance Company Ltd

Financials

ZINCO

HQHEFU

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

CH0133090610

CH0133090610

Cooeperatieve Rabobank U.A.

Financials

COOERAB

NP489I

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0244347612

XSSNRREFOBL0

Cooeperatieve Rabobank U.A.

Financials

COOERAB

NP489I

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0503734872

XSSNRREFOBL0

Cooeperatieve Rabobank U.A.

Financials

COOERAB

NP489I

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0619051971

XSSNRREFOBL0

Cooeperatieve Rabobank U.A.
MEDIOBANCA BANCA DI CREDITO
FINANZIARIO SOCIETA PER AZIONI
MEDIOBANCA BANCA DI CREDITO
FINANZIARIO SOCIETA PER AZIONI
MEDIOBANCA BANCA DI CREDITO
FINANZIARIO SOCIETA PER AZIONI

Financials

COOERAB

NP489I

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSSNRREFOBL0

XSSNRREFOBL0

Financials

BACRED

TZCEH2

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0242820586

IT0004713787

Financials

BACRED

TZCEH2

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

XS0333457983

IT0004713787

Financials

BACRED

TZCEH2

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

IT0004713787

IT0004713787

Markit 6 Digit RED Code
Eligible Fixed Rate
(in bps)

Reference Entity Name

Sector

Markit Ticker

Sunrise Communications Holdings S.A.

Telecommunications Services

SUNRICO

LTH98G

Sunrise Communications Holdings S.A.

Telecommunications Services

SUNRICO

CNH Industrial N.V.

Industrials

CNH Industrial N.V.

W5GGCB

Eligible Reference Obligations

CDSClear Clearable Products: Single Names
Currency

Tenors

Contractual Definitions

Doc Clause

Tier

ISIN

CDSClear Preferred
Reference Obligation
ISIN

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0242820586

XSSNRREFOBL0

TZCEH2

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0333457983

XSSNRREFOBL0

BACRED

TZCEH2

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

IT0004713787

XSSNRREFOBL0

BACRED

TZCEH2

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSSNRREFOBL0

XSSNRREFOBL0

Financials

BYLAN

DD7E9A

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE000BLB5NS5

XSSNRREFOBL0

Bayerische Landesbank

Financials

BYLAN

DD7E9A

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE000BLB1AT9

XSSNRREFOBL0

Bayerische Landesbank

Financials

BYLAN

DD7E9A

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSSNRREFOBL0

XSSNRREFOBL0

Bayerische Landesbank

Financials

BYLAN

DD7E9A

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

DE000BLB5NS5

DE000BLB1AT9

Bayerische Landesbank

Financials

BYLAN

DD7E9A

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2003CREDIT

MM

SNRFOR

DE000BLB1AT9

DE000BLB1AT9

MUNRE

687DNG

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

DE0002452547

DE0002452547

Industrials

SAS-ScanAirSys

W3CA79

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSNOREFOBL00

XSNOREFOBL00

Financials

ISSAS-Global

KP55EY

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1145526585

XS1145526585

Financials

ISSAS-Global

KP55EY

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSNOREFOBL00

XS1145526585

ROYAL & SUN ALLIANCE INSURANCE PLC Financials

RSA-InsPLC

7F80FP

100; 500; 25; 300

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XSNOREFOBL00

XSNOREFOBL00

AIR FRANCE - KLM

Industrials

AF

009A2A

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

FR0011965177

FR0011965177

Boparan Finance PLC

Financials

BOPAFIN

GH376G

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1082473395

XS1082473395

International Game Technology PLC

Consumer Services

INTEGAM

GKCE9D

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1204434028

XS1204434028

Lock Lower Holding AS

Financials

LOCKLOW

RV75B0

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1094674642

XS1094674642

LOXAM

Industrials

LOXAAA

FKDBAW

500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1089828450

XS1089828450

Ziggo Bond Finance B.V.

Consumer Services

ZIGGOBO

NWHBA0

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1170079443

XS1170079443

Matterhorn Telecom Holding S.A.

Telecommunications Services

MATTETE

LR87EO

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1219475792

XS1219475792

Financiere Quick

Consumer Services

FNCREQCK

FIA9AL

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1054086928

XS1054086928

NEW LOOK SR ISSUER PLC

Consumer Services

NEWLOOAC

GMAA9C

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1248518158

XS1248518158

SYNLAB UNSECURED BONDCO

Healthcare

SYNLUNS

GOEABL

100; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1268471494

XS1268471494

Alcoa Inc.

Basic Materials

AA

014B98

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US013817AP64

US013817AP64

Alcoa Inc.
Basic Materials
AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY,
Utilities
INC.
APACHE CORPORATION
Energy

AA

014B98

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US013817AL50

US013817AP64

AEP

027A8A

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US025537AF85

US025537AF85

APA

03AB52

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US037411AN57

US037411AN57

APACHE CORPORATION

Energy

APA

03AB52

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US037411AZ87

US037411AN57

Avnet, Inc.

Consumer Goods

AVT

058B87

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US053807AM57

US053807AR45

Avnet, Inc.

Consumer Goods

AVT

058B87

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US053807AN31

US053807AR45

Avnet, Inc.

Consumer Goods

AVT

058B87

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US053807AR45

US053807AR45

BARRICK GOLD CORPORATION

Basic Materials

ABX

06DG91

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US067901AA64

US067901AA64

BARRICK GOLD CORPORATION

Basic Materials

ABX

06DG91

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US725906AH40

US067901AA64

Beam Suntory Inc.

Consumer Goods

BEAMSUN

07AAAI

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US073730AG89

US073730AG89

Beam Suntory Inc.

Consumer Goods

BEAMSUN

07AAAI

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US349631AL52

US073730AG89

Beam Suntory Inc.

Consumer Goods

BEAMSUN

07AAAI

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US349631AN19

US073730AG89

Beam Suntory Inc.

Consumer Goods

BEAMSUN

07AAAI

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US073730AD58

US073730AG89

The Black & Decker Corporation

Consumer Goods

BDK

09A8GG

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

XSNOREFOBL00

XSNOREFOBL00

Block Financial LLC

Financials

HRB-Fllc

09C9BK

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US093662AE40

US093662AE40

Boeing Capital Corporation

Financials

BA-CapCorp

09G715

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US09700WEG42

US09700WEG42

Boeing Capital Corporation

Financials

BA-CapCorp

09G715

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US097014AL88

US09700WEG42

THE BOEING COMPANY

Industrials

BA

09G725

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US097023AD79

US097023AD79

THE BOEING COMPANY

Industrials

BA

09G725

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US097023AZ81

US097023AD79

AT&T Inc.

Telecommunications Services

ATTINC

0A226X

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US00206RAV42

US00206RBC51

Reference Entity Name
MEDIOBANCA BANCA DI CREDITO
FINANZIARIO SOCIETA PER AZIONI
MEDIOBANCA BANCA DI CREDITO
FINANZIARIO SOCIETA PER AZIONI
MEDIOBANCA BANCA DI CREDITO
FINANZIARIO SOCIETA PER AZIONI
MEDIOBANCA BANCA DI CREDITO
FINANZIARIO SOCIETA PER AZIONI
Bayerische Landesbank

Markit Ticker

Financials

BACRED

TZCEH2

Financials

BACRED

Financials
Financials

Muenchener RueckversicherungsFinancials
Gesellschaft Aktiengesellschaft in Muenchen
SCANDINAVIAN AIRLINES SYSTEM
DENMARK-NORWAY-SWEDEN
ISS GLOBAL A/S
ISS GLOBAL A/S

Markit 6 Digit RED Code
Eligible Fixed Rate
(in bps)

Sector

Eligible Reference Obligations

CDSClear Clearable Products: Single Names
Currency

Tenors

Contractual Definitions

Doc Clause

Tier

ISIN

CDSClear Preferred
Reference Obligation
ISIN

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US00206RBC51

US00206RBC51

0A3576

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US032511AN73

US032511BF31

APC

0A3576

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US032511AX55

US032511BF31

ANADARKO PETROLEUM CORPORATION Energy

APC

0A3576

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US032511BF31

US032511BF31

Aetna Inc.

Healthcare

AET

0A8985

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US00817YAF51

US00817YAF51

ALLTEL Corporation

Telecommunications Services

ALTEL

0C204K

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US020039DC48

US020039DC48

Altria Group, Inc.

Consumer Goods

MO

0C4291

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US718154CF28

US02209SAD53

Altria Group, Inc.

Consumer Goods

MO

0C4291

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US02209SAD53

US02209SAD53

Altria Group, Inc.

Consumer Goods

MO

0C4291

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US02209SAL79

US02209SAD53

Amgen Inc.

Healthcare

AMGN

0D4278

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US031162BL37

US031162BU36

Amgen Inc.

Healthcare

AMGN

0D4278

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US031162BU36

US031162BU36

ARROW ELECTRONICS, INC.

Industrials

ARW

0E69A8

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US042735AL41

US042735AL41

ARROW ELECTRONICS, INC.

Industrials

ARW

0E69A8

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US042735BA76

US042735AL41

AutoZone, Inc.

Consumer Services

AZO

0F8665

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US053332AF92

US053332AJ15

AutoZone, Inc.

Consumer Services

AZO

0F8665

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US053332AG75

US053332AJ15

AutoZone, Inc.

Consumer Services

AZO

0F8665

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US053332AJ15

US053332AJ15

Avon Products, Inc.

Consumer Goods

AVP

0F9733

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US054303AR34

US054303AW29

Avon Products, Inc.

Consumer Goods

AVP

0F9733

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US054303AW29

US054303AW29

Baxter International Inc.

Healthcare

BAX

0H8994

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US071813AM10

US071813AY57

Baxter International Inc.

Healthcare

BAX

0H8994

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US071813AY57

US071813AY57

Belo Corp.

Consumer Services

BILLO

0I85AL

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US080555AE54

US080555AE54

CBS Corporation

Consumer Services

CBSCOR

136CDC

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US925524AU41

US925524AU41

CBS Corporation

Consumer Services

CBSCOR

136CDC

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US124857AE30

US925524AU41

CIGNA Corporation

Healthcare

CI

137A59

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US125509AZ26

US125509AZ26

CIGNA Corporation

Healthcare

CI

137A59

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US125509BK48

US125509AZ26

CSX Corporation

Industrials

CSX

138A48

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US126408GJ61

US126408GJ61

CSX Corporation

Industrials

CSX

138A48

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US126408GM90

US126408GJ61

CVS Health Corporation

Healthcare

CVSHEA

138CBK

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US126650BU33

US126650BU33

CVS Health Corporation

Healthcare

CVSHEA

138CBK

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US126650BE90

US126650BU33

CA, Inc.

Technology

CAINC

138DAS

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US12673PAC95

US12673PAC95

CA, Inc.

Technology

CAINC

138DAS

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

XSNOREFOBL00

US12673PAC95

Caterpillar Inc.

Industrials

CAT

15DA35

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US149123BJ96

US149123BZ39

Caterpillar Inc.

Industrials

CAT

15DA35

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US149123BM26

US149123BZ39

Caterpillar Inc.

Industrials

CAT

15DA35

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US149123BZ39

US149123BZ39

CenturyLink, Inc.

Telecommunications Services

CLINKI

16BCFO

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US156700AL08

US156700AL08

CenturyLink, Inc.

Telecommunications Services

CLINKI

16BCFO

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US156700AN63

US156700AL08

Boston Scientific Corporation

Healthcare

BSX

1B124A

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US101137AK32

US101137AM97

Boston Scientific Corporation

Healthcare

BSX

1B124A

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US101137AM97

US101137AM97

Bristol-Myers Squibb Company

Healthcare

BMY

1C1134

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US110122AB49

US110122AB49

Bristol-Myers Squibb Company

Healthcare

BMY

1C1134

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US110122AW85

US110122AB49

BRUNSWICK CORPORATION

Consumer Goods

BC

1C8747

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US117043AG45

US117043AG45

BRUNSWICK CORPORATION

Consumer Goods

BC

1C8747

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US117043AE96

US117043AG45

Burlington Northern Santa Fe, LLC

Industrials

BRK-BRLF

1D39HN

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US12189TBA16

US12189TBA16

Burlington Northern Santa Fe, LLC

Industrials

BRK-BRLF

1D39HN

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US12189TBC71

US12189TBA16

CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY

Consumer Goods

CPB

1E786B

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US134429AW93

US134429AV11

CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY
CANADIAN NATURAL RESOURCES
LIMITED
CANADIAN NATURAL RESOURCES
LIMITED

Consumer Goods

CPB

1E786B

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US134429AV11

US134429AV11

Energy

CNATUR

1E99BR

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US136385AK78

US136385AK78

Energy

CNATUR

1E99BR

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US136385AL51

US136385AK78

Markit 6 Digit RED Code
Eligible Fixed Rate
(in bps)

Reference Entity Name

Sector

Markit Ticker

AT&T Inc.

Telecommunications Services

ATTINC

0A226X

ANADARKO PETROLEUM CORPORATION Energy

APC

ANADARKO PETROLEUM CORPORATION Energy

Eligible Reference Obligations

CDSClear Clearable Products: Single Names
Currency

Tenors

Contractual Definitions

Doc Clause

Tier

ISIN

CDSClear Preferred
Reference Obligation
ISIN

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US14040HAL96

US14040HAL96

1F444H

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US14040HAY18

US14040HAL96

CAH

1F55D7

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US14149YAU29

US14149YAU29

Consumer Services

CCL

1F79BD

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US143658AH53

US143658AH53

Consumer Goods

CTX

1G7543

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US152312AT17

US152312AT17

Cisco Systems, Inc.

Technology

CSCO

1I99CW

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US17275RAC60

US17275RAE27

Cisco Systems, Inc.

Technology

CSCO

1I99CW

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US17275RAE27

US17275RAE27

ConAgra Foods, Inc.

Consumer Goods

CAG

225DGF

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US205887AR36

US205887AR36

ConAgra Foods, Inc.

Consumer Goods

CAG

225DGF

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US205887BF88

US205887AR36

ConocoPhillips

Energy

COP

228A7H

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US20825CAF14

US20825CAF14

ConocoPhillips

Energy

COP

228A7H

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US20825CAR51

US20825CAF14

Darden Restaurants, Inc.

Consumer Services

DRI

25A8AD

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US237194AE57

US237194AE57

Darden Restaurants, Inc.

Consumer Services

DRI

25A8AD

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US237194AG06

US237194AE57

Dell Inc.

Technology

DELLN

26B72T

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US247025AE93

US247025AE93

The Walt Disney Company

Consumer Services

DIS

279AEF

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US25468PCE43

US25468PCT12

The Walt Disney Company

Consumer Services

DIS

279AEF

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US25468PCT12

US25468PCT12

Dominion Resources, Inc.

Utilities

D

27CBAF

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US25746UBE82

US25746UBE82

Domtar Corporation

Basic Materials

DOMC

27CCAE

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US257559AD63

US257559AG94

Domtar Corporation

Basic Materials

DOMC

27CCAE

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US257559AC80

US257559AG94

Domtar Corporation

Basic Materials

DOMC

27CCAE

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US257559AG94

US257559AG94

R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company

Industrials

DNY

27CFED

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US257867AT88

US257867AW18

R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company

Industrials

DNY

27CFED

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US257867AU51

US257867AW18

R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company

Industrials

DNY

27CFED

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US257867AW18

US257867AW18

R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company

Industrials

DNY

27CFED

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US74978DAA28

US257867AW18

Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC

Utilities

DUKECO

28A85G

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US26442CAA27

US26442CAA27

EOP Operating Limited Partnership

Financials

EOP-EOPOpLP

28EFDC

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

XSNOREFOBL00

XSNOREFOBL00

ERP Operating Limited Partnership

Financials

EQR-ERPOperLP

28EGCE

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US26884AAU79

US26884AAX19

ERP Operating Limited Partnership

Financials

EQR-ERPOperLP

28EGCE

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US26884AAX19

US26884AAX19

Eastman Chemical Company

Basic Materials

EMN

29EB75

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US277432AB66

US277432AD23

Eastman Chemical Company

Basic Materials

EMN

29EB75

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US277432AD23

US277432AD23

Embarq Corporation

Telecommunications Services

EMBRQ

2B97FM

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US29078EAB11

US29078EAB11

Enbridge Inc.

Energy

ENB

2BB75N

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

CA29251ZAW73

US29250NAH89

Enbridge Inc.

Energy

ENB

2BB75N

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US29250NAH89

US29250NAH89

Comcast Cable Communications, LLC

Consumer Services

CMCSA-CableLLC

2C02BL

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US20029PAH29

US20029PAG46

Comcast Cable Communications, LLC

Consumer Services

CMCSA-CableLLC

2C02BL

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US20029PAG46

US20029PAG46

Comcast Corporation

Consumer Services

CMCSA

2C033N

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US20030NAJ00

US20030NAP69

Comcast Corporation

Consumer Services

CMCSA

2C033N

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US20030NAP69

US20030NAP69

Comcast Corporation

Consumer Services

CMCSA

2C033N

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US20030NAZ42

US20030NAP69

Computer Sciences Corporation

Technology

CSC

2C5899

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US205363AL84

US205363AL84

Computer Sciences Corporation

Technology

CSC

2C5899

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US205363AN41

US205363AL84

Cox Communications, Inc.

Consumer Services

COX-CommInc

2E6448

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US224044BH95

US224044AN72

Cox Communications, Inc.

Consumer Services

COX-CommInc

2E6448

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US224044AN72

US224044AN72

DE US, Inc.

Consumer Services

DEUSAA

2G58AI

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

XSNOREFOBL00

XSNOREFOBL00

Deere & Company

Industrials

DE

2G85AI

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US244199BE40

US244199BC83

Deere & Company

Industrials

DE

2G85AI

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US244199BC83

US244199BC83

Devon Energy Corporation

Energy

DVN

2H68GV

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US251799AA02

US251799AA02

DIRECTV Holdings LLC

Consumer Services

DTV-Hldgs

2H99EY

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US25459HAY18

US25459HBA23

DIRECTV Holdings LLC

Consumer Services

DTV-Hldgs

2H99EY

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US25459HAZ82

US25459HBA23

DIRECTV Holdings LLC

Consumer Services

DTV-Hldgs

2H99EY

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US25459HBA23

US25459HBA23

The Dow Chemical Company

Basic Materials

DOW

2I6597

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US260543BJ10

US260543BJ10

The Dow Chemical Company

Basic Materials

DOW

2I6597

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US260543CC57

US260543BJ10

Markit 6 Digit RED Code
Eligible Fixed Rate
(in bps)

Reference Entity Name

Sector

Markit Ticker

Capital One Financial Corporation

Financials

COF

1F444H

Capital One Financial Corporation

Financials

COF

Cardinal Health, Inc.

Consumer Services

CARNIVAL CORPORATION
CENTEX CORPORATION

Eligible Reference Obligations

CDSClear Clearable Products: Single Names
Currency

Tenors

Contractual Definitions

Doc Clause

Tier

ISIN

CDSClear Preferred
Reference Obligation
ISIN

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US263534BQ16

US263534BT54

2I9887

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US263534BT54

US263534BT54

FDC

34AIF9

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US319963BA14

US319963BP82

Industrials

FDC

34AIF9

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US319963BP82

US319963BP82

Industrials

FDC

34AIF9

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US319963BB96

US319963BP82

First Data Corporation

Industrials

FDC

34AIF9

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

USU3198DAP97

US319963BP82

FirstEnergy Corp.

Utilities

FE

36AGC5

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US337932AC13

US337932AC13

Freeport-McMoRan Inc.

Basic Materials

FREEPIN

38BD8L

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US35671DAU90

US35671DAU90

THE GAP, INC.

Consumer Services

GPS

39ABD6

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US364760AK48

US364760AK48

General Electric Company

Financials

GE

39FF64

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

XS0092499077

US36962G3H54

General Electric Capital Corporation

Financials

GE-CapCorp

39FF64

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US36962G3H54

US36962G3H54

General Mills, Inc.

Consumer Goods

GIS

3A7367

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US370334BB91

US370334BB91

Goodrich Corporation

Industrials

GR

3BA5BG

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US38238QAM87

US38238QAM87

Exelon Corporation

Utilities

EXC

3D177O

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US210371AL43

US210371AL43

Expedia, Inc.

Consumer Services

EXPD

3D233R

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US30212PAB13

US30212PAB13

Ford Motor Company

Consumer Goods

F

3H98A7

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US345370CA64

US345370BX76

Ford Motor Company

Consumer Goods

F

3H98A7

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US345370BX76

US345370BX76

GATX Corporation

Financials

GMT

3J758C

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US36804PAK21

US361448AF09

GATX Corporation

Financials

GMT

3J758C

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US361448AF09

US361448AF09

HP Inc.

Technology

HPINCAA

4E477P

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US428236AM52

US428236AM52

HP Inc.

Technology

HPQ

4E477P

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US428236AS23

US428236AM52

The Home Depot, Inc.

Consumer Services

HD

47A77D

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US437076AP79

US437076AS19

The Home Depot, Inc.

Consumer Services

HD

47A77D

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US437076AS19

US437076AS19

Honeywell International Inc.

Industrials

HON

47BD67

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US438516AR73

US438516AR73

Honeywell International Inc.

Industrials

HON

47BD67

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US438516AZ99

US438516AR73

Ingersoll-Rand Company

Industrials

IR-NJ

49BEEC

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US456866AG74

US456866AG74

IBM

49EB20

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US459200GJ41

US459200GJ41

Industrials

AIG-IntLeaseFin

49EGB9

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US459745GF62

US459745GF62

Industrials

AIG-IntLeaseFin

49EGB9

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US459745GE97

US459745GF62

Basic Materials

IP

4A615A

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US460146CD38

US460146CE11

INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY

Basic Materials

IP

4A615A

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US460146CE11

US460146CE11

Interval Acquisition Corp.

Consumer Services

IACI-IntAcq

4A724Y

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US46113VAC28

US46113VAC28

Johnson Controls, Inc.

Consumer Goods

JCI

4BFB9C

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US478366AG24

US478366AG24

Johnson Controls, Inc.

Consumer Goods

JCI

4BFB9C

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US478366AR88

US478366AG24

Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, L.P.

Energy

KMP

4DD9A5

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US494550BG00

US494550BL94

Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, L.P.

Energy

KMP

4DD9A5

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US494550BL94

US494550BL94

HALLIBURTON COMPANY

Energy

HAL

4E6837

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US406216AH42

US406216AH42

HALLIBURTON COMPANY

Energy

HAL

4E6837

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US406216AV36

US406216AH42

Kraft Heinz Foods Company

Consumer Goods

HNZ

5F07CP

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US423074AF08

US423074AF08

Kraft Heinz Foods Company

Consumer Goods

HNZ

5F07CP

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US423074AN32

US423074AF08

The Hillshire Brands Company

Consumer Goods

THHILL

4H57DH

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US803111AS27

US803111AS27

Lockheed Martin Corporation

Industrials

LMT

58CHB3

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US539830AE98

US539830AT67

Lockheed Martin Corporation

Industrials

LMT

58CHB3

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US539830AT67

US539830AT67

Lowe's Companies, Inc.

Consumer Services

LOW

59CEC7

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US548661CH80

US548661CQ89

Lowe's Companies, Inc.

Consumer Services

LOW

59CEC7

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US548661CK10

US548661CQ89

Lowe's Companies, Inc.

Consumer Services

LOW

59CEC7

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US548661CQ89

US548661CQ89

M.D.C. Holdings, Inc.

Consumer Goods

MDC

5A78DD

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US552676AR93

US552676AP38

M.D.C. Holdings, Inc.

Consumer Goods

MDC

5A78DD

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US552676AP38

US552676AP38

Macy's, Inc.

Consumer Services

M

5AB77V

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US55616XAA54

US55616XAA54

Markit 6 Digit RED Code
Eligible Fixed Rate
(in bps)

Reference Entity Name

Sector

Markit Ticker

E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company

Basic Materials

DD

2I9887

E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company

Basic Materials

DD

First Data Corporation

Industrials

First Data Corporation
First Data Corporation

International Business Machines Corporation Technology
INTERNATIONAL LEASE FINANCE
CORPORATION
INTERNATIONAL LEASE FINANCE
CORPORATION
INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY

Eligible Reference Obligations

CDSClear Clearable Products: Single Names
Currency

Tenors

Contractual Definitions

Doc Clause

Tier

ISIN

CDSClear Preferred
Reference Obligation
ISIN

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US571900AZ26

US571903AJ23

5C8A93

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US571903AF01

US571903AJ23

MAR

5C8A93

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US571903AJ23

US571903AJ23

Consumer Goods

MAS

5CB9EI

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US574599BF29

US574599BD70

Masco Corporation

Consumer Goods

MAS

5CB9EI

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US574599BD70

US574599BD70

McDONALD'S CORPORATION

Consumer Services

MCD

5D8148

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US58013MEB63

US58013MEB63

McDONALD'S CORPORATION

Consumer Services

MCD

5D8148

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

XS0433152690

US58013MEB63

WESTROCK MWV LLC

Industrials

WESTMWV

9F758Y

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US961548AY02

US961548AY02

WESTROCK MWV LLC

Industrials

WESTMWV

9F758Y

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US583334AE71

US961548AY02

Kohl's Corporation

Consumer Services

KSS

5F027A

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US500255AP93

US500255AR59

Kohl's Corporation

Consumer Services

KSS

5F027A

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US500255AR59

US500255AR59

Kohl's Corporation

Consumer Services

KSS

5F027A

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US500255AQ76

US500255AR59

THE KROGER CO.

Consumer Services

KR

5F1148

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US501044CH20

US501044CH20

THE KROGER CO.

Consumer Services

KR

5F1148

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US501044CP46

US501044CH20

L Brands, Inc.

Consumer Services

LBRAAA

5F78AG

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US532716AR89

US532716AM92

L Brands, Inc.

Consumer Services

LBRAAA

5F78AG

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US532716AM92

US532716AM92

Lennar Corporation

Consumer Goods

LEN

5H865C

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US526057AW40

US526057BJ20

Lennar Corporation

Consumer Goods

LEN

5H865C

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US526057BJ20

US526057BJ20

Mondelez International, Inc.

Consumer Goods

MONDINT

669B27

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

XS0377058614

US50075NAS36

Mondelez International, Inc.

Consumer Goods

MONDINT

669B27

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US50075NAS36

US50075NAS36

Mondelez International, Inc.

Consumer Goods

MONDINT

669B27

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US50075NAU81

US50075NAS36

Nabors Industries, Inc.

Energy

NBR-Inc

68BEBE

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US629568AQ91

US629568AQ91

Nabors Industries, Inc.
Energy
National Rural Utilities Cooperative Finance
Financials
Corporation
Navient Corporation
Financials

NBR-Inc

68BEBE

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US629568AT31

US629568AQ91

NRUC

69AB75

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US637432CT02

US637432CT02

NAVIECO

69CCBK

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US78442FEK03

US78442FEQ72

Navient Corporation

Financials

NAVIECO

69CCBK

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US78442FEQ72

US78442FEQ72

The New York Times Company

Consumer Services

NYT

6B5122

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US650111AG26

US650111AG26

Newell Rubbermaid Inc.

Consumer Goods

NWL

6B634B

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US651229AG15

US651229AG15

Newell Rubbermaid Inc.

Consumer Goods

NWL

6B634B

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US651229AP14

US651229AG15

Newmont Mining Corporation

Basic Materials

NEM

6B67AL

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US651639AE60

US651639AE60

Nordstrom, Inc.

Consumer Services

JWN

6BABCA

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US655664AH33

US655664AH33

Nordstrom, Inc.

Consumer Services

JWN

6BABCA

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US655664AK61

US655664AH33

Nordstrom, Inc.

Consumer Services

JWN

6BABCA

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US655664AL45

US655664AH33

NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION

Industrials

NSC

6BADC8

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US655844AE88

US655844AE88

Northrop Grumman Corporation

Industrials

NORGRM

6CCE9H

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US666807AW21

US666807AW21

Olin Corporation

Basic Materials

OLN

6E86CB

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US680665AH97

US680665AH97

Omnicom Group Inc.

Consumer Services

OMC

6E9AAA

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US681919AS54

US682134AC59

Omnicom Group Inc.

Consumer Services

OMC

6E9AAA

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US682134AC59

US682134AC59

Mohawk Industries, Inc.

Consumer Goods

MHK

6G89A9

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US608190AH76

US608190AJ33

Mohawk Industries, Inc.

Consumer Goods

MHK

6G89A9

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US608190AJ33

US608190AJ33

Motorola Solutions, Inc.

Technology

MOTSOL

6I209O

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US620076AK59

US620076AH21

Motorola Solutions, Inc.

Technology

MOTSOL

6I209O

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US620076AH21

US620076AH21

The Procter & Gamble Company

Consumer Goods

PG

7B6989

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

XS0237323943

US742718EE59

The Procter & Gamble Company

Consumer Goods

PG

7B6989

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

XS0327237300

US742718EE59

The Procter & Gamble Company

Consumer Goods

PG

7B6989

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US742718EE59

US742718EE59

Progress Energy, Inc.

Utilities

PGN

7B7589

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US743263AL93

US743263AR63

Progress Energy, Inc.

Utilities

PGN

7B7589

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US743263AR63

US743263AR63

PulteGroup, Inc.

Consumer Goods

PHMG

7B9DFM

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US745867AT82

US745867AM30

PulteGroup, Inc.

Consumer Goods

PHMG

7B9DFM

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US745867AM30

US745867AM30

Quest Diagnostics Incorporated

Healthcare

DGX

7BCB7P

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US74834LAN01

US74834LAN01

Markit 6 Digit RED Code
Eligible Fixed Rate
(in bps)

Reference Entity Name

Sector

Markit Ticker

MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC.

Consumer Services

MAR

5C8A93

MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC.

Consumer Services

MAR

MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC.

Consumer Services

Masco Corporation

Eligible Reference Obligations

CDSClear Clearable Products: Single Names
Currency

Tenors

Contractual Definitions

Doc Clause

Tier

ISIN

CDSClear Preferred
Reference Obligation
ISIN

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US74834LAR15

US74834LAN01

7CA622

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US755111AF81

US755111AF81

RAI

7D7884

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SECDOM

US761713AU09

US761713AX48

Consumer Goods

RAI

7D7884

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US761713AX48

US761713AX48

Consumer Goods

RAI

7D7884

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SECDOM

US761713AY21

US761713AX48

RIO TINTO ALCAN INC.

Basic Materials

RIOALC

7DD92F

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US013716AU93

US013716AU93

Rohm and Haas Company

Basic Materials

ROH

7EC8A8

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US775371AU10

US775371AU10

Rohm and Haas Company

Basic Materials

ROH

7EC8A8

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US775371AV92

US775371AU10

Ryder System, Inc.

Industrials

R

7FB89D

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US783549AZ16

US78355HJW07

Ryder System, Inc.

Industrials

R

7FB89D

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US78355HJK68

US78355HJW07

Ryder System, Inc.

Industrials

R

7FB89D

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US78355HJN08

US78355HJW07

Ryder System, Inc.

Industrials

R

7FB89D

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US78355HJW07

US78355HJW07

Sabre Holdings Corporation

Consumer Services

TSG

7FDE95

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US785905AB66

US785905AB66

Safeway Inc.

Consumer Services

SWY

7FEB65

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US786514BA67

US786514BA67

Safeway Inc.

Consumer Services

SWY

7FEB65

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US786514BP37

US786514BA67

Pfizer Inc.

Healthcare

PFE

7I8789

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US717081AQ68

US717081AQ68

Pitney Bowes Inc.

Technology

PBI

7J68BG

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US724479AH32

US724479AH32

Sempra Energy

Utilities

SRE

897ED6

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US816851AJ81

US816851AJ81

Sempra Energy

Utilities

SRE

897ED6

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US816851AS80

US816851AJ81

The Sherwin-Williams Company

Consumer Goods

SHW

8A677C

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US824348AL09

US824348AL09

Southwest Airlines Co.

Industrials

LUV

8C8BB5

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US844741AX63

US844741AX63

Sprint Communications, Inc.

Telecommunications Services

SPRICOM

8D7273

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US852060AD48

US852061AF78

Sprint Communications, Inc.

Telecommunications Services

SPRICOM

8D7273

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US852061AD21

US852061AF78

Sprint Communications, Inc.

Telecommunications Services

SPRICOM

8D7273

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US852061AF78

US852061AF78

Staples, Inc.

Consumer Services

SPLS

8DA533

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US855030AL63

US855030AL63

Staples, Inc.

Consumer Services

SPLS

8DA533

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US855030AM47

US855030AL63

Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc.

Consumer Services

HOT

8DAE9A

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US85590AAL89

US85590AAL89

Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc.

Consumer Services

HOT

8DAE9A

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US85590AAN46

US85590AAL89

THE TJX COMPANIES, INC.

Consumer Services

TJX

8F9794

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US872540AM11

US872540AM11

Target Corporation

Consumer Services

TGT

8FD73G

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US87612EAP16

US87612EAP16

Target Corporation

Consumer Services

TGT

8FD73G

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US87612EAV83

US87612EAP16

Teck Resources Limited

Energy

TECKRS

8FFFB8

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US878742AU97

US878742AU97

Teck Resources Limited

Energy

TECKRS

8FFFB8

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US878742AY10

US878742AU97

TEGNA Inc.

Consumer Services

TEGNINC

8FG91K

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

USU36473AJ20

USU36473AJ20

Temple-Inland Inc.

Industrials

TIN

8FGHEE

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US879868AK38

US879868AL11

Temple-Inland Inc.

Industrials

TIN

8FGHEE

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US879868AL11

US879868AL11

Textron Financial Corporation

Industrials

TXT-FinCorp

8GB4AI

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

XSNOREFOBL00

XSNOREFOBL00

Time Warner Inc.

Consumer Services

TW

8GFA48

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US00184AAG04

US887317AT21

Time Warner Inc.

Consumer Services

TW

8GFA48

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US887317AC95

US887317AT21

Time Warner Inc.

Consumer Services

TW

8GFA48

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US887317AT21

US887317AT21

Time Warner Cable Inc.

Consumer Services

TW-Cab

8GFA5L

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US88732JAH14

US88732JAH14

Time Warner Cable Inc.

Consumer Services

TW-Cab

8GFA5L

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

XS0630584166

US88732JAH14

Toll Brothers, Inc.

Consumer Goods

TOL

8GHDBF

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US88947EAH36

US88947EAH36

Transocean Inc.

Energy

RIG

8HCBB3

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US893830AK59

US893830AK59

Transocean Inc.

Energy

RIG

8HCBB3

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US893830AX70

US893830AK59

Union Pacific Corporation

Industrials

UNP

997F99

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US907818CF33

US907818CF33

Union Pacific Corporation

Industrials

UNP

997F99

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US907818CW65

US907818CF33

United Parcel Service, Inc.

Industrials

UPS

9A2443

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

XS0124554618

US911308AB04

United Parcel Service, Inc.

Industrials

UPS

9A2443

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US911308AB04

US911308AB04

UnitedHealth Group Incorporated

Healthcare

UNH

9A456T

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US91324PBJ03

US91324PBJ03

Markit 6 Digit RED Code
Eligible Fixed Rate
(in bps)

Reference Entity Name

Sector

Markit Ticker

Quest Diagnostics Incorporated

Healthcare

DGX

7BCB7P

Raytheon Company

Industrials

RTN

Reynolds American Inc.

Consumer Goods

Reynolds American Inc.
Reynolds American Inc.

Eligible Reference Obligations

CDSClear Clearable Products: Single Names
Markit 6 Digit RED Code
Eligible Fixed Rate
(in bps)

Reference Entity Name

Sector

Markit Ticker

UnitedHealth Group Incorporated

Healthcare

UNH

9A456T

Universal Health Services, Inc.

Healthcare

UHS

Valero Energy Corporation

Energy

Valero Energy Corporation

Energy

Verizon Communications Inc.

Eligible Reference Obligations

CDSClear Preferred
Reference Obligation
ISIN

Currency

Tenors

Contractual Definitions

Doc Clause

Tier

ISIN

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US91324PBY79

US91324PBJ03

9A4C93

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SECDOM

US913903AN05

US913903AN05

VLOC

9AAA4I

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US91913YAB65

US91913YAB65

VLOC

9AAA4I

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US91913YAR18

US91913YAB65

Telecommunications Services

VRZN

9B579L

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US92343VCB80

US92343VCB80

Viacom Inc.

Consumer Services

VIAINC

9B7A8S

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US925524AX89

US925524AX89

Viacom Inc.

Consumer Services

VIAINC

9B7A8S

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US925524BB50

US925524AX89

Viacom Inc.

Consumer Services

VIAINC

9B7A8S

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US92553PAD42

US925524AX89

WAL-MART STORES, INC.

Consumer Services

WMT

9C4256

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

XS0121617517

US931142CH46

WAL-MART STORES, INC.

Consumer Services

WMT

9C4256

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US931142CH46

US931142CH46

Weyerhaeuser Company

Basic Materials

WY

9F837C

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US962166AS33

US962166AS33

Weyerhaeuser Company

Basic Materials

WY

9F837C

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US969133AK36

US962166AS33

Weyerhaeuser Company

Basic Materials

WY

9F837C

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US962166BV52

US962166AS33

Whirlpool Corporation

Consumer Goods

WHR

9F9652

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US963320AH94

US96332HCD98

Whirlpool Corporation

Consumer Goods

WHR

9F9652

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US963320AN62

US96332HCD98

Whirlpool Corporation

Consumer Goods

WHR

9F9652

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US96332HCD98

US96332HCD98

Wyeth LLC

Healthcare

WYELLC

9HB32H

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US983024AN02

US983024AM29

Wyeth LLC

Healthcare

WYELLC

9HB32H

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US983024AM29

US983024AM29

XEROX CORPORATION

Technology

XRX

9HC533

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US98412JBM53

US984121BW26

XEROX CORPORATION

Technology

XRX

9HC533

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US984121BW26

US984121BW26

YUM! Brands, Inc.

Consumer Services

YUM

9HGCDH

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US988498AC50

US988498AC50

YUM! Brands, Inc.

Consumer Services

YUM

9HGCDH

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US988498AE17

US988498AC50

21st Century Fox America, Inc.

Consumer Services

STCENT

9J143F

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US90131HAE53

US90131HAE53

Tyson Foods, Inc.

Consumer Goods

TSN

9J26DD

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US902494AF03

US902494AT07

Tyson Foods, Inc.

Consumer Goods

TSN

9J26DD

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US902494AN37

US902494AT07

Tyson Foods, Inc.

Consumer Goods

TSN

9J26DD

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US902494AT07

US902494AT07

Weatherford International Ltd.

Energy

WFT

GPE58H

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US947075AF47

US94707VAC46

Weatherford International Ltd.

Energy

WFT

GPE58H

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US94707VAC46

US94707VAC46

J. C. Penney Company, Inc.

Consumer Services

JCP

UB78A0

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US708130AC31

US708130AC31

J. C. Penney Company, Inc.

Consumer Services

JCP

UB78A0

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US708130AB57

US708130AC31

iHeartCommunications, Inc.

Consumer Services

IHEAINC

UY955C

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US184502AD42

US184502AD42

McKesson Corporation

Healthcare

MCK

UZDD52

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US581557AM75

US581557AM75

McKesson Corporation

Healthcare

MCK

UZDD52

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US581557AV74

US581557AM75

GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC

Autos & Industrials

GSK

3AEA6Z

100 ; 25

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0866588527

XS0866588527

GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC

Autos & Industrials

GSK

3AEA6Z

100 ; 25

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0140516864

XS0866588527

Heineken N.V.

Consumers

HEIANA

NQCD69

100 ; 25

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0758419658

XS0758419658

Heineken N.V.

Consumers

HEIANA

NQCD69

100 ; 25

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS0811554962

XS0758419658

CMA CGM S A

Industrials

CMACGM

FH222U

100 ; 500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1244815111

XS1244815111

Elis

Industrials

ELISSA

FHBGDL

500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1225112272

XS1225112272

GARFUNKELUX HOLDCO 2 SA

Financials

GARFUNH

LP56AP

500

EUR

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

MM14

SNRFOR

XS1308316568

XS1308316568

Hess Corp

Energy

HESS

46A89Q

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US42809HAB33

US42809HAB33

Johnson & Johnson

Healthcare

JNJ

4BF976

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US478160BS27

US478160BS27

Johnson & Johnson

Healthcare

JNJ

4BF976

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US478160AY04

US478160BS27

Johnson & Johnson

Healthcare

JNJ

4BF976

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US478160AQ79

US478160BS27

Packaging Corporation of America

Industrials

PACKAM

6FE66B

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US695156AP42

US695156AP42

Best Buy Co., Inc.

Consumer Services

BBY

08EB67

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US086516AL50

US086516AL50

Best Buy Co., Inc.

Consumer Services

BBY

08EB67

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US086516AM34

US086516AL50

Best Buy Co., Inc.

Consumer Services

BBY

08EB67

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

XSNOREFOBL00

US086516AL50

General Motors Company

Consumer Services

GENMC

3A749R

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US37045VAD29

US37045VAD29

General Motors Company

Consumer Services

GENMC

3A749R

100; 500

USD

0M-10Y

ISDA2014CREDIT

XR14

SNRFOR

US37045VAC46

US37045VAD29

EXHIBIT J-2

CDSClear Clearable Products: Indices
#

Instrument

Series

Version

RED Code

Term Period

Maturity Date

Fixed Rate (bps)

Index Factor

Currency

1

iTraxx Europe

25

1 2I666VBF1

3Y

20/06/2019

100

1

EUR

2

iTraxx Europe

25

1 2I666VBF1

5Y

20/06/2021

100

1

EUR

3

iTraxx Europe

25

1 2I666VBF1

7Y

20/06/2023

100

1

EUR

4

iTraxx Europe

25

1 2I666VBF1

10Y

20/06/2026

100

1

EUR

5

iTraxx Europe

24

1 2I666VBE4

3Y

20/12/2018

100

1

EUR

6

iTraxx Europe

24

1 2I666VBE4

5Y

20/12/2020

100

1

EUR

7

iTraxx Europe

24

1 2I666VBE4

7Y

20/12/2022

100

1

EUR

8

iTraxx Europe

24

1 2I666VBE4

10Y

20/12/2025

100

1

EUR

9

iTraxx Europe

23

1 2I666VBD6

3Y

20/06/2018

100

1

EUR

10

iTraxx Europe

23

1 2I666VBD6

5Y

20/06/2020

100

1

EUR

11

iTraxx Europe

23

1 2I666VBD6

7Y

20/06/2022

100

1

EUR

12

iTraxx Europe

23

1 2I666VBD6

10Y

20/06/2025

100

1

EUR

13

iTraxx Europe

22

1 2I666VBC8

3Y

20/12/2017

100

1

EUR

14

iTraxx Europe

22

1 2I666VBC8

5Y

20/12/2019

100

1

EUR

15

iTraxx Europe

22

1 2I666VBC8

7Y

20/12/2021

100

1

EUR

16

iTraxx Europe

22

1 2I666VBC8

10Y

20/12/2024

100

1

EUR

17

iTraxx Europe

21

1 2I666VBB0

3Y

20/06/2017

100

1

EUR

18

iTraxx Europe

21

1 2I666VBB0

5Y

20/06/2019

100

1

EUR

19

iTraxx Europe

21

1 2I666VBB0

7Y

20/06/2021

100

1

EUR

20

iTraxx Europe

21

1 2I666VBB0

10Y

20/06/2024

100

1

EUR

21

iTraxx Europe

20

1 2I666VBA2

3Y

20/12/2016

100

1

EUR

22

iTraxx Europe

20

1 2I666VBA2

5Y

20/12/2018

100

1

EUR

23

iTraxx Europe

20

1 2I666VBA2

7Y

20/12/2020

100

1

EUR

24

iTraxx Europe

20

1 2I666VBA2

10Y

20/12/2023

100

1

EUR

25

iTraxx Europe

19

1 2I666VAZ8

3Y

20/06/2016

100

1

EUR

26

iTraxx Europe

19

1 2I666VAZ8

5Y

20/06/2018

100

1

EUR

27

iTraxx Europe

19

1 2I666VAZ8

7Y

20/06/2020

100

1

EUR

28

iTraxx Europe

19

1 2I666VAZ8

10Y

20/06/2023

100

1

EUR

29

iTraxx Europe

18

1 2I666VAY1

5Y

20/12/2017

100

1

EUR

30

iTraxx Europe

18

1 2I666VAY1

7Y

20/12/2019

100

1

EUR

31

iTraxx Europe

18

1 2I666VAY1

10Y

20/12/2022

100

1

EUR

32

iTraxx Europe

17

1 2I666VAX3

5Y

20/06/2017

100

1

EUR

33

iTraxx Europe

17

1 2I666VAX3

7Y

20/06/2019

100

1

EUR

34

iTraxx Europe

17

1 2I666VAX3

10Y

20/06/2022

100

1

EUR

35

iTraxx Europe

16

1 2I666VAW5

5Y

20/12/2016

100

1

EUR

36

iTraxx Europe

16

1 2I666VAW5

7Y

20/12/2018

100

1

EUR

37

iTraxx Europe

16

1 2I666VAW5

10Y

20/12/2021

100

1

EUR

38

iTraxx Europe

15

1 2I666VAV7

5Y

20/06/2016

100

1

EUR

39

iTraxx Europe

15

1 2I666VAV7

7Y

20/06/2018

100

1

EUR

40

iTraxx Europe

15

1 2I666VAV7

10Y

20/06/2021

100

1

EUR

41

iTraxx Europe

14

1 2I666VAU9

7Y

20/12/2017

100

1

EUR

42

iTraxx Europe

14

1 2I666VAU9

10Y

20/12/2020

100

1

EUR

43

iTraxx Europe

13

1 2I666VAT2

7Y

20/06/2017

100

1

EUR

44

iTraxx Europe

13

1 2I666VAT2

10Y

20/06/2020

100

1

EUR

45

iTraxx Europe

12

1 2I666VAS4

7Y

20/12/2016

100

1

EUR

46

iTraxx Europe

12

1 2I666VAS4

10Y

20/12/2019

100

1

EUR

47

iTraxx Europe

11

1 2I666VAK1

7Y

20/06/2016

170

1

EUR

48

iTraxx Europe

11

1 2I666VAK1

10Y

20/06/2019

150

1

EUR

49

iTraxx Europe

10

1 2I666VAJ4

10Y

20/12/2018

130

1

EUR

50

iTraxx Europe

9

1 2I666VAI6

10Y

20/06/2018

175

1

EUR

51

iTraxx Europe

8

1 2I666VAH8

10Y

20/12/2017

70

1

EUR

52

iTraxx Europe

7

2 2I666VAR6

10Y

20/06/2017

50

0,992

EUR

53

iTraxx Europe

6

2 2I666VAQ8

10Y

20/12/2016

50

0,992

EUR

54

iTraxx Europe

5

2 2I666VAP0

10Y

20/06/2016

60

0,992

EUR

55

iTraxx Europe Crossover

25

1 2I667KEE4

3Y

20/06/2019

500

1

EUR

56

iTraxx Europe Crossover

25

1 2I667KEE4

5Y

20/06/2021

500

1

EUR

57

iTraxx Europe Crossover

25

1 2I667KEE4

7Y

20/06/2023

500

1

EUR

58

iTraxx Europe Crossover

25

1 2I667KEE4

10Y

20/06/2026

500

1

EUR

CDSClear Clearable Products: Indices
#

Instrument

Series

Version

RED Code

Term Period

Maturity Date

Fixed Rate (bps)

Index Factor

Currency

59

iTraxx Europe Crossover

24

1 2I667KEA2

3Y

20/12/2018

500

1

EUR

60

iTraxx Europe Crossover

24

1 2I667KEA2

5Y

20/12/2020

500

1

EUR

61

iTraxx Europe Crossover

24

1 2I667KEA2

7Y

20/12/2022

500

1

EUR

62

iTraxx Europe Crossover

24

1 2I667KEA2

10Y

20/12/2025

500

1

EUR

63

iTraxx Europe Crossover

23

3 2I667KEV6

3Y

20/06/2018

500

0,97333

EUR

64

iTraxx Europe Crossover

23

3 2I667KEV6

5Y

20/06/2020

500

0,97333

EUR

65

iTraxx Europe Crossover

23

3 2I667KEV6

7Y

20/06/2022

500

0,97333

EUR

66

iTraxx Europe Crossover

23

3 2I667KEV6

10Y

20/06/2025

500

0,97333

EUR

67

iTraxx Europe Crossover

22

3 2I667KEU8

3Y

20/12/2017

500

0,97333

EUR

68

iTraxx Europe Crossover

22

3 2I667KEU8

5Y

20/12/2019

500

0,97333

EUR

69

iTraxx Europe Crossover

22

3 2I667KEU8

7Y

20/12/2021

500

0,97333

EUR

70

iTraxx Europe Crossover

22

3 2I667KEU8

10Y

20/12/2024

500

0,97333

EUR

71

iTraxx Europe Crossover

21

3 2I667KET1

3Y

20/06/2017

500

0,96666

EUR

72

iTraxx Europe Crossover

21

3 2I667KET1

5Y

20/06/2019

500

0,96666

EUR

73

iTraxx Europe Crossover

21

3 2I667KET1

7Y

20/06/2021

500

0,96666

EUR

74

iTraxx Europe Crossover

21

3 2I667KET1

10Y

20/06/2024

500

0,96666

EUR

75

iTraxx Europe Crossover

20

2 2I667KES3

3Y

20/12/2016

500

0,98

EUR

76

iTraxx Europe Crossover

20

2 2I667KES3

5Y

20/12/2018

500

0,98

EUR

77

iTraxx Europe Crossover

20

2 2I667KES3

7Y

20/12/2020

500

0,98

EUR

78

iTraxx Europe Crossover

20

2 2I667KES3

10Y

20/12/2023

500

0,98

EUR

79

iTraxx Europe Crossover

19

3 2I667KER5

3Y

20/06/2016

500

0,96

EUR

80

iTraxx Europe Crossover

19

3 2I667KER5

5Y

20/06/2018

500

0,96

EUR

81

iTraxx Europe Crossover

19

3 2I667KER5

7Y

20/06/2020

500

0,96

EUR

82

iTraxx Europe Crossover

19

3 2I667KER5

10Y

20/06/2023

500

0,96

EUR

83

iTraxx Europe Crossover

18

3 2I667KEQ7

5Y

20/12/2017

500

0,96

EUR

84

iTraxx Europe Crossover

18

3 2I667KEQ7

7Y

20/12/2019

500

0,96

EUR

85

iTraxx Europe Crossover

18

3 2I667KEQ7

10Y

20/12/2022

500

0,96

EUR

86

iTraxx Europe Crossover

17

3 2I667KEP9

5Y

20/06/2017

500

0,96

EUR

87

iTraxx Europe Crossover

17

3 2I667KEP9

7Y

20/06/2019

500

0,96

EUR

88

iTraxx Europe Crossover

17

3 2I667KEP9

10Y

20/06/2022

500

0,96

EUR

89

iTraxx Europe Crossover

16

3 2I667KEO2

5Y

20/12/2016

500

0,96

EUR

90

iTraxx Europe Crossover

16

3 2I667KEO2

7Y

20/12/2018

500

0,96

EUR

91

iTraxx Europe Crossover

16

3 2I667KEO2

10Y

20/12/2021

500

0,96

EUR

92

iTraxx Europe Crossover

15

3 2I667KEN4

5Y

20/06/2016

500

0,95

EUR

93

iTraxx Europe Crossover

15

3 2I667KEN4

7Y

20/06/2018

500

0,95

EUR

94

iTraxx Europe Crossover

15

3 2I667KEN4

10Y

20/06/2021

500

0,95

EUR

95

iTraxx Europe Crossover

14

5 2I667KEM6

7Y

20/12/2017

500

0,92

EUR

96

iTraxx Europe Crossover

14

5 2I667KEM6

10Y

20/12/2020

500

0,92

EUR

97

iTraxx Europe Crossover

13

6 2I667KEL8

7Y

20/06/2017

500

0,92

EUR

98

iTraxx Europe Crossover

13

6 2I667KEL8

10Y

20/06/2020

500

0,92

EUR

99

iTraxx Europe Crossover

12

6 2I667KEK0

7Y

20/12/2016

500

0,92

EUR

100

iTraxx Europe Crossover

12

6 2I667KEK0

10Y

20/12/2019

500

0,92

EUR

101

iTraxx Europe Crossover

11

6 2I667KEJ3

7Y

20/06/2016

880

0,8888

EUR

102

iTraxx Europe Crossover

11

6 2I667KEJ3

10Y

20/06/2019

820

0,8888

EUR

103

iTraxx Europe Crossover

10

9 2I667KEI5

10Y

20/12/2018

540

0,86

EUR

104

iTraxx Europe Crossover

9

10 2I667KEH7

10Y

20/06/2018

640

0,84

EUR

105

iTraxx Europe Crossover

8

10 2I667KEG9

10Y

20/12/2017

460

0,84

EUR

106

iTraxx Europe Crossover

7

9 2I667KEF1

10Y

20/06/2017

320

0,86

EUR

107

iTraxx Europe Crossover

6

6 2I667KCT3

10Y

20/12/2016

345

0,911

EUR

108

iTraxx Europe Crossover

5

6 2I667KDC9

10Y

20/06/2016

350

0,9111

EUR

109

iTraxx Europe HiVol

20

1 2I667LAX4

3Y

20/12/2016

100

1

EUR

110

iTraxx Europe HiVol

20

1 2I667LAX4

5Y

20/12/2018

100

1

EUR

111

iTraxx Europe HiVol

20

1 2I667LAX4

7Y

20/12/2020

100

1

EUR

112

iTraxx Europe HiVol

20

1 2I667LAX4

10Y

20/12/2023

100

1

EUR

113

iTraxx Europe HiVol

19

1 2I667LAW6

3Y

20/06/2016

100

1

EUR

114

iTraxx Europe HiVol

19

1 2I667LAW6

5Y

20/06/2018

100

1

EUR

115

iTraxx Europe HiVol

19

1 2I667LAW6

7Y

20/06/2020

100

1

EUR

116

iTraxx Europe HiVol

19

1 2I667LAW6

10Y

20/06/2023

100

1

EUR

CDSClear Clearable Products: Indices
#

Instrument

Series

Version

RED Code

Term Period

Maturity Date

Fixed Rate (bps)

Index Factor

Currency

117

iTraxx Europe HiVol

18

1 2I667LAV8

5Y

20/12/2017

100

1

EUR

118

iTraxx Europe HiVol

18

1 2I667LAV8

7Y

20/12/2019

100

1

EUR

119

iTraxx Europe HiVol

18

1 2I667LAV8

10Y

20/12/2022

100

1

EUR

120

iTraxx Europe HiVol

17

1 2I667LAU0

5Y

20/06/2017

100

1

EUR

121

iTraxx Europe HiVol

17

1 2I667LAU0

7Y

20/06/2019

100

1

EUR

122

iTraxx Europe HiVol

17

1 2I667LAU0

10Y

20/06/2022

100

1

EUR

123

iTraxx Europe HiVol

16

1 2I667LAT3

5Y

20/12/2016

100

1

EUR

124

iTraxx Europe HiVol

16

1 2I667LAT3

7Y

20/12/2018

100

1

EUR

125

iTraxx Europe HiVol

16

1 2I667LAT3

10Y

20/12/2021

100

1

EUR

126

iTraxx Europe HiVol

15

1 2I667LAS5

5Y

20/06/2016

100

1

EUR

127

iTraxx Europe HiVol

15

1 2I667LAS5

7Y

20/06/2018

100

1

EUR

128

iTraxx Europe HiVol

15

1 2I667LAS5

10Y

20/06/2021

100

1

EUR

129

iTraxx Europe HiVol

14

1 2I667LAR7

7Y

20/12/2017

100

1

EUR

130

iTraxx Europe HiVol

14

1 2I667LAR7

10Y

20/12/2020

100

1

EUR

131

iTraxx Europe HiVol

13

1 2I667LAQ9

7Y

20/06/2017

100

1

EUR

132

iTraxx Europe HiVol

13

1 2I667LAQ9

10Y

20/06/2020

100

1

EUR

133

iTraxx Europe HiVol

12

1 2I667LAP1

7Y

20/12/2016

100

1

EUR

134

iTraxx Europe HiVol

12

1 2I667LAP1

10Y

20/12/2019

100

1

EUR

135

iTraxx Europe HiVol

11

1 2I667LAK2

7Y

20/06/2016

350

1

EUR

136

iTraxx Europe HiVol

11

1 2I667LAK2

10Y

20/06/2019

325

1

EUR

137

iTraxx Europe HiVol

10

1 2I667LAJ5

10Y

20/12/2018

230

1

EUR

138

iTraxx Europe HiVol

9

1 2I667LAI7

10Y

20/06/2018

270

1

EUR

139

iTraxx Europe HiVol

8

1 2I667LAH9

10Y

20/12/2017

100

1

EUR

140

iTraxx Europe HiVol

7

2 2I667LAO4

10Y

20/06/2017

85

0,9667

EUR

141

iTraxx Europe HiVol

6

2 2I667LAN6

10Y

20/12/2016

85

0,9667

EUR

142

iTraxx Europe HiVol

5

2 2I667LAM8

10Y

20/06/2016

100

0,9667

EUR

143

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

25

1 2I667DAY0

5Y

20/06/2021

100

1

EUR

144

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

25

1 2I667DAY0

10Y

20/06/2026

100

1

EUR

145

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

24

1 2I667DAX2

5Y

20/12/2020

100

1

EUR

146

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

24

1 2I667DAX2

10Y

20/12/2025

100

1

EUR

147

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

23

1 2I667DAW4

5Y

20/06/2020

100

1

EUR

148

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

23

1 2I667DAW4

10Y

20/06/2025

100

1

EUR

149

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

22

1 2I667DAV6

5Y

20/12/2019

100

1

EUR

150

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

22

1 2I667DAV6

10Y

20/12/2024

100

1

EUR

151

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

21

1 2I667DAU8

5Y

20/06/2019

100

1

EUR

152

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

21

1 2I667DAU8

10Y

20/06/2024

100

1

EUR

153

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

20

1 2I667DAT1

5Y

20/12/2018

100

1

EUR

154

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

20

1 2I667DAT1

10Y

20/12/2023

100

1

EUR

155

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

19

1 2I667DAS3

5Y

20/06/2018

100

1

EUR

156

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

19

1 2I667DAS3

10Y

20/06/2023

100

1

EUR

157

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

18

1 2I667DAR5

5Y

20/12/2017

100

1

EUR

158

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

18

1 2I667DAR5

10Y

20/12/2022

100

1

EUR

159

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

17

1 2I667DAQ7

5Y

20/06/2017

100

1

EUR

160

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

17

1 2I667DAQ7

10Y

20/06/2022

100

1

EUR

161

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

16

1 2I667DAP9

5Y

20/12/2016

100

1

EUR

162

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

16

1 2I667DAP9

10Y

20/12/2021

100

1

EUR

163

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

15

1 2I667DAO2

5Y

20/06/2016

100

1

EUR

164

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

15

1 2I667DAO2

10Y

20/06/2021

100

1

EUR

165

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

14

1 2I667DAN4

10Y

20/12/2020

100

1

EUR

166

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

13

1 2I667DAM6

10Y

20/06/2020

100

1

EUR

167

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

12

1 2I667DAL8

10Y

20/12/2019

100

1

EUR

168

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

11

1 2I667DAK0

10Y

20/06/2019

190

1

EUR

169

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

10

1 2I667DAJ3

10Y

20/12/2018

130

1

EUR

170

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

9

1 2I667DAI5

10Y

20/06/2018

175

1

EUR

171

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

8

1 2I667DAH7

10Y

20/12/2017

55

1

EUR

172

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

7

1 2I667DAG9

10Y

20/06/2017

20

1

EUR

173

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

6

1 2I667DAF1

10Y

20/12/2016

20

1

EUR

174

iTraxx Europe Senior Financials

5

1 2I667DAE4

10Y

20/06/2016

25

1

EUR

CDSClear Clearable Products: Indices
#

Instrument

Series

Version

RED Code

Term Period

Maturity Date

Fixed Rate (bps)

Index Factor

Currency

175

CDX.NA.IG

26

1 2I65BYDK8

3Y

20/06/2019

0,01

1

USD

176

CDX.NA.IG

26

1 2I65BYDK8

5Y

20/06/2021

0,01

1

USD

177

CDX.NA.IG

26

1 2I65BYDK8

7Y

20/06/2023

0,01

1

USD

178

CDX.NA.IG

26

1 2I65BYDK8

10Y

20/06/2026

0,01

1

USD

179

CDX.NA.IG

25

1 2I65BYDJ1

3Y

20/12/2018

0,01

1

USD

180

CDX.NA.IG

25

1 2I65BYDJ1

5Y

20/12/2020

0,01

1

USD

181

CDX.NA.IG

25

1 2I65BYDJ1

7Y

20/12/2022

0,01

1

USD

182

CDX.NA.IG

25

1 2I65BYDJ1

10Y

20/12/2025

0,01

1

USD

183

CDX.NA.IG

24

1 2I65BYDI3

3Y

20/06/2018

0,01

1

USD

184

CDX.NA.IG

24

1 2I65BYDI3

5Y

20/06/2020

0,01

1

USD

185

CDX.NA.IG

24

1 2I65BYDI3

7Y

20/06/2022

0,01

1

USD

186

CDX.NA.IG

24

1 2I65BYDI3

10Y

20/06/2025

0,01

1

USD

187

CDX.NA.IG

23

1 2I65BYCZ6

3Y

20/12/2017

0,01

1

USD

188

CDX.NA.IG

23

1 2I65BYCZ6

5Y

20/12/2019

0,01

1

USD

189

CDX.NA.IG

23

1 2I65BYCZ6

7Y

20/12/2021

0,01

1

USD

190

CDX.NA.IG

23

1 2I65BYCZ6

10Y

20/12/2024

0,01

1

USD

191

CDX.NA.IG

22

1 2I65BYCY9

3Y

20/06/2017

0,01

1

USD

192

CDX.NA.IG

22

1 2I65BYCY9

5Y

20/06/2019

0,01

1

USD

193

CDX.NA.IG

22

1 2I65BYCY9

7Y

20/06/2021

0,01

1

USD

194

CDX.NA.IG

22

1 2I65BYCY9

10Y

20/06/2024

0,01

1

USD

195

CDX.NA.IG

21

1 2I65BYCX1

3Y

20/12/2016

0,01

1

USD

196

CDX.NA.IG

21

1 2I65BYCX1

5Y

20/12/2018

0,01

1

USD

197

CDX.NA.IG

21

1 2I65BYCX1

7Y

20/12/2020

0,01

1

USD

198

CDX.NA.IG

21

1 2I65BYCX1

10Y

20/12/2023

0,01

1

USD

199

CDX.NA.IG

20

1 2I65BYCW3

3Y

20/06/2016

0,01

1

USD

200

CDX.NA.IG

20

1 2I65BYCW3

5Y

20/06/2018

0,01

1

USD

201

CDX.NA.IG

20

1 2I65BYCW3

7Y

20/06/2020

0,01

1

USD

202

CDX.NA.IG

20

1 2I65BYCW3

10Y

20/06/2023

0,01

1

USD

203

CDX.NA.IG

19

1 2I65BYCV5

5Y

20/12/2017

0,01

1

USD

204

CDX.NA.IG

19

1 2I65BYCV5

7Y

20/12/2019

0,01

1

USD

205

CDX.NA.IG

19

1 2I65BYCV5

10Y

20/12/2022

0,01

1

USD

206

CDX.NA.IG

18

1 2I65BYCO1

5Y

20/06/2017

0,01

1

USD

207

CDX.NA.IG

18

1 2I65BYCO1

7Y

20/06/2019

0,01

1

USD

208

CDX.NA.IG

18

1 2I65BYCO1

10Y

20/06/2022

0,01

1

USD

209

CDX.NA.IG

17

1 2I65BYCN3

5Y

20/12/2016

0,01

1

USD

210

CDX.NA.IG

17

1 2I65BYCN3

7Y

20/12/2018

0,01

1

USD

211

CDX.NA.IG

17

1 2I65BYCN3

10Y

20/12/2021

0,01

1

USD

212

CDX.NA.IG

16

1 2I65BYCM5

5Y

20/06/2016

0,01

1

USD

213

CDX.NA.IG

16

1 2I65BYCM5

7Y

20/06/2018

0,01

1

USD

214

CDX.NA.IG

16

1 2I65BYCM5

10Y

20/06/2021

0,01

1

USD

215

CDX.NA.IG

15

1 2I65BYCL7

7Y

20/12/2017

0,01

1

USD

216

CDX.NA.IG

15

1 2I65BYCL7

10Y

20/12/2020

0,01

1

USD

217

CDX.NA.IG

14

1 2I65BYCK9

7Y

20/06/2017

0,01

1

USD

218

CDX.NA.IG

14

1 2I65BYCK9

10Y

20/06/2020

0,01

1

USD

219

CDX.NA.IG

13

1 2I65BYBX2

7Y

20/12/2016

0,01

1

USD

220

CDX.NA.IG

13

1 2I65BYBX2

10Y

20/12/2019

0,01

1

USD

221

CDX.NA.IG

12

2 2I65BYCJ2

7Y

20/06/2016

0,01

0,992

USD

222

CDX.NA.IG

12

2 2I65BYCJ2

10Y

20/06/2019

0,01

0,992

USD

223

CDX.NA.IG

11

2 2I65BYCI4

10Y

20/12/2018

0,014

0,992

USD

224

CDX.NA.IG

10

4 2I65BYCH6

10Y

20/06/2018

0,015

0,968

USD

225

CDX.NA.IG

9

4 2I65BYCG8

10Y

20/12/2017

0,008

0,968

USD

226

CDX.NA.IG

8

5 2I65BYCU7

10Y

20/06/2017

0,006

0,96

USD

227

CDX.NA.IG

7

8 2I65BYDH5

10Y

20/12/2016

0,0065

0,94

USD

EXHIBIT O
Attach as Exhibit O, a description of any specifications, qualifications, or other criteria which
limit, are interpreted to limit, or have the effect of limiting access to, or use of, any clearing
agency service furnished by the registrant and state the reasons for imposing such specifications,
qualifications, or other criteria.

Below are LCH SA’s initial admissions and ongoing membership requirements for its CDS
Clearing Service, as provided in Title II of the LCH SA CDS Clearing Rule Book. These admissions
and ongoing membership requirements, all of which are objective, are necessary to protect LCH
SA and are appropriate for the CDS clearing service offered. LCH SA (“LCH”) has carefully
designed the requirements to be risk appropriate, without being unnecessarily restrictive.
Furthermore, the admission and ongoing membership requirements permit fair and open access
and do not unfairly discriminate in the admission of members or among members. These
provisions satisfy applicable regulatory requirements, including (among others) those imposed
by the Exchange Act and SEC rules hereunder. Among other things, the admissions and ongoing
membership requirements:


provide the opportunity for a person that does not perform any dealer or security-based
swap dealer services to obtain membership on fair and reasonable terms to clear for
itself or on behalf of other persons;



do not require participants to maintain a portfolio of any minimum size or that
participants maintain a minimum transaction volume; and



provide a person that maintains net capital equal to or greater than US$50 million with
the ability to obtain membership.

“TITLE II: MEMBERSHIP
CHAPTER 1
Section 1.1.1

- GENERAL PROVISIONS

Participants

Article 1.1.1.1
As a securities settlement system within the meaning of the Settlement Finality Directive, LCH SA
has only direct participants, being the Clearing Members. It does not have any indirect
participants.

1
LCH SA_FORM CA-1 APPLICATION_EXHIBIT O

Article 1.1.1.2
The following entities are eligible to become a Clearing Member, pursuant to Article L. 440-2 of
the French Monetary and Financial Code:
(i)

Credit Institutions, having their head office in a Member State;

(ii)

Investment Firms, having their head office in a Member State;

(iii)

legal persons whose members or shareholders have unlimited joint and several liability
for their debts and obligations, provided that such members or shareholders are
institutions or firms mentioned under Article 1.1.1.2(i) and/or (ii) above;

(iv)

legal persons having their head office in metropolitan France or in French overseas
departments or in Saint-Barthélemy or Saint-Martin and whose principal or sole object is
the clearing of financial instruments; and

(v)

in the circumstances set out in the general regulations of the AMF and with the prior
approval of the AMF, Credit Institutions and Investment Firms not having their head
office in a Member State, and legal persons whose principal or sole object is the clearing
of financial instruments, that are not established in metropolitan France or in French
overseas departments or in Saint-Barthélemy or Saint-Martin. An agreement between
the AMF and the relevant Governmental Authority(ies) may provide for an exemption
from prior authorisation for a category of entities.

Without prejudice to the membership requirements set out in the CDS Clearing Rules and
Applicable Law, FCMs are eligible to become FCM Clearing Members.

2
LCH SA_FORM CA-1 APPLICATION_EXHIBIT O

CHAPTER 2

- LEGAL OBLIGATIONS

Article 2.2.0.1
An Applicant shall be required to evidence its ability to comply with the obligations set out in
this Chapter 2. LCH SA may refuse to admit an Applicant as a Clearing Member if the conditions
set out in Article 1.2.1.1 have not been satisfied, or if it considers that admission of such
Applicant as a Clearing Member may adversely affect the operation of the CDS Clearing System
or the provision of the CDS Clearing Service.
LCH SA shall be entitled, in consultation with the Risk Committee, at any time to impose, amend
or withdraw additional requirements in relation to the membership requirements set out in this
Chapter 2, provided that, if such additional requirements are imposed or amended, they are
non-discriminatory and their objective is to control the risk for LCH SA.
Further information in respect of the application procedure can be obtained from LCH SA’s
CDSClear Member Sales & Relationship Management team whose contact details are set out in
Section 1 of the Procedures.
Article 2.2.0.2
Application for Clearing Member status in LCH SA shall be made in accordance with Section 1 of
the Procedures. A Clearing Member’s status in LCH SA and all Clearing Services shall be governed
by the CDS Clearing Rules. Additionally, a Clearing Member’s status in LCH SA shall be governed
by any CDS Admission Agreement to which it is for the time being party. Clearing Member status
does not provide or entitle a Clearing Member to any other clearing member status with LCH SA,
or to any shareholding membership of LCH Limited or any shareholding or other membership of
any other member of the LCH Group or any entitlement to membership of or participation in
LCH SA, each of which has separate and distinct membership requirements.
Section 1.2.1

Membership requirements

Article 1.2.1.1
Any Applicant wishing to be admitted as a Clearing Member by LCH SA should satisfy the
following conditions:
(vi)

be validly incorporated and existing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation
and (if relevant in such jurisdiction) be in good standing;

(vii)

be the subject of supervision by its Competent Authorities;

(viii)

undertake to accept and comply with the CDS Clearing Documentation by executing the
CDS Admission Agreement;

3
LCH SA_FORM CA-1 APPLICATION_EXHIBIT O

(ix)

have a CDS Client Clearing Agreement, meeting the requirements Erreur ! Source du
renvoi introuvable. (i) (in the case of a CCM) or Erreur ! Source du renvoi introuvable.
(in the case of an FCM Clearing Member), in place with each of its Clients;

(x)

provide LCH SA with updated documentation and information required pursuant to
Section 1 of the Procedures, in respect of each of its Clients;

(xi)

to accept to comply with all Applicable Law relating to its status as a Clearing Member
and the performance of its obligations pursuant to the CDS Clearing Documentation;

(xii)

not be subject to Insolvency Proceedings;

(xiii)

meet the Capital requirements as specified in Section 1.2.3, and any further liquidity
and/or solvency requirements as may be set by LCH SA from time to time in accordance
with this CDS Clearing Rule Book, taking into account notably the indicators mentioned
in Erreur ! Source du renvoi introuvable.;

(xiv)

satisfy a minimum internal credit score which is determined by LCH SA as set out in
Article 1.2.4.1 below;

(xv)

satisfy LCH SA that it has sufficient expertise in relation to clearing activities, that its
Systems and Operations are operationally reliable and capable of supporting the proper
performance of its business as a Clearing Member and that its risk management policy is
adequate;

(xvi)

participate, or demonstrate that it has: (A) an affiliated Clearing Member or,
alternatively, a non-clearing member Affiliate that clears through the Clearing Member,
that can successfully participate; or (B) an LCH Approved Outsourcing Agent that can
successfully participate in the implementation of the CDS Default Management Process,
and participate in (and satisfy LCH SA's requirements with respect to the carrying out of)
regular fire drills run by LCH SA from time to time, in accordance with this CDS Clearing
Rule Book;

(xvii)

have nominated and notified to LCH SA:
(a)

a Person, having director, general partner, trustee or officer status at the Clearing
Member (or a Person occupying a similar status or performing similar functions)
who is both responsible for the clearing operations of the Clearing Member and
authorised to act on behalf of the Clearing Member in respect of all transactions
with or involving LCH SA; and

(b)

an alternate Person that satisfies the requirements set out in sub-paragraph (a)
above and who is authorised to act on behalf of the Clearing Member in the
event that the first Person is incapable or unable to act;

4
LCH SA_FORM CA-1 APPLICATION_EXHIBIT O

(xviii)

pay all fees and other amounts required by LCH SA in accordance with the CDS Clearing
Documentation, including, without limitation, satisfying its Margin Requirement, its
Contribution Requirement and its Cash Payment obligations;

(xix)

be in a position to provide Collateral in satisfaction of its Margin Requirements and its
Contribution Requirement, and to perform Cash Payment obligations, including:
(a)

submitting evidence and details of duly existing cash accounts (including, at
least, one TARGET2 Account and one cash account in US Dollar) for the purposes
of payment of cash amounts, as well as evidence that a Power of Attorney has
been issued in favor of LCH SA to allow the debiting or crediting of such cash
accounts for the performance of Cash Payment obligations and the provision of
Cash Collateral; and

(b)

having in place all appropriate settlement solutions (direct access or indirect
access to at least one settlement system) in case of Physical Settlement;

(xx)

have at its disposal the technical environment, including facilities, equipment,
operational capability, personnel, hardware and software systems as may be required to
support the proper performance of its business as a Clearing Member, including such IT
links as may be necessary for it to be connected to the CDS Clearing System managed by
LCH SA;

(xxi)

have operational competence in CDS substantially similar to Original Transactions eligible
for clearing by LCH SA;

(xxii)

be a TIW Participant for the purposes of maintaining Original Transactions and Cleared
Transactions in the TIW;

(xxiii)

be an ATSS Participant for the purpose of submitting Original Transactions for clearing;

(xxiv)

have access to one of the means of access and reporting mechanism as specified in a
Clearing Notice to obtain CDS Clearing System reports;

(xxv)

be party to any required documentation with DTCC allowing LCH SA as "Service Provider"
to :
(a)

arrange for the removal of Backloading Transactions or if applicable, Intraday
Transactions, from the TIW in accordance with ‎Section 3.1.10;

(b)

arrange for the registration of Cleared Transactions in the TIW in accordance
with ‎Section 3.1.10; and

(c)

send to DTCC messages by which Cleared Transactions would be adhered to
Credit Events;

5
LCH SA_FORM CA-1 APPLICATION_EXHIBIT O

(xxvi)

if it is incorporated or registered in the United States of America, be an eligible contract
participant, as defined in Section 1a(12) of the Commodity Exchange Act (other than
paragraph (C) thereof);

(xxvii) satisfy any additional membership requirements as set out in Section 1 of the

Procedures, including without limitation any caps on the aggregate amount of Initial
Margin it may have on deposit at any given time with LCH SA.;
(xxviii) accept to comply with the performance of its obligations pursuant to the Pledge

Agreement;
(xxix)

in respect of any Applicant that is an FCM, be registered with the CFTC as an FCM and a
member in good standing with NFA; and

(xxx)

in respect of any Applicant that is an FCM wishing to be admitted as a CCM, provide LCH
SA with an opinion of counsel letter confirming that its performance of the obligations of
a CCM would not be contrary to Applicable Law relating to such status, in form and
content acceptable to LCH SA.

Article 1.2.1.2
In addition each FCM Clearing Member must at all times be registered with the CFTC as an FCM
and a member in good standing with NFA.
Article 1.2.1.3
In the event a Clearing Member breaches any of the membership requirements set out in ‎Article
1.2.1.1, LCH SA shall consult with the French Competent Authorities to determine whether such
breach shall be publically disclosed in accordance with EMIR.
Section 1.2.2

Continuing obligations

Article 2.2.2.1
Each Clearing Member must at all times:
(xxxi)

comply with the membership requirements set out in Section 2.2.1;

(xxxii) be a party to the CDS Admission Agreement;
(xxxiii) comply with the CDS Clearing Documentation;
(xxxiv) have a CDS Client Clearing Agreement, meeting the requirements of Erreur ! Source du
renvoi introuvable. (i) (in the case of a CCM) or Erreur ! Source du renvoi introuvable.

(in the case of an FCM Clearing Member), in place with each of its Clients;
(xxxv) comply with all Applicable Law relating to its status as a Clearing Member and the

performance of its obligations pursuant to the CDS Clearing Documentation;

6
LCH SA_FORM CA-1 APPLICATION_EXHIBIT O

(xxxvi) comply with the performance of its obligations pursuant to the Pledge Agreement; and
(xxxvii) not be subject to Insolvency Proceedings.

Section 1.2.3

Capital requirements

Article 1.2.3.1
A Clearing Member must maintain a minimum net capital of at least EUR 37,000,000 in respect
of a Clearing Member which is a CCM (other than a CCM that is an FCM) or $50,000,000 (fifty
million US Dollars) in respect of a Clearing Member which is an FCM. Such net capital shall be
calculated as follows:
(xxxviii) the net capital of an FCM means its adjusted net capital, as defined in CFTC Regulation

1.17; and
(xxxix) the net capital of a CCM (other than a CCM that is an FCM) means its own original funds

as defined in the Capital Requirements Directive;
provided that LCH SA shall be permitted (in its sole and reasonable discretion), to scale (A) a
Clearing Member’s required level of net capital in accordance with the level of risk introduced to
LCH SA by such Clearing Member; and (B) a Clearing Member’s level of risk introduced to LCH SA
by such Clearing Member in accordance with its level of net capital (and regardless of whether
such Clearing Member has a minimum net capital exceeding EUR 37,000,000 or $50,000,000, as
applicable);
provided, further, that each Clearing Member or Clearing Member applicant must maintain
compliance with all regulatory financial requirements (whether relating to capital, equity, risk or
otherwise) applicable to it (including in the case of an FCM Clearing Member or CCM that is an
FCM, compliance with the applicable requirements of CFTC Regulation 1.17 and Part 23 of the
CFTC Regulations.
Section 1.2.4

Internal credit scoring

Article 1.2.4.1
The Clearing Member must satisfy the credit risk assessment minimum requirements. LCH SA
assesses the credit risk of the Clearing Member in accordance with the internal credit score
based on a range of quantitative and qualitative data. These include financial analysis, external
market data as well as consideration of any implicit or explicit support available to the Clearing
Member. The analysis is performed on a predetermined methodology applicable to any Clearing
Member.

7
LCH SA_FORM CA-1 APPLICATION_EXHIBIT O

Section 1.2.5

Corporate organisation

Article 1.2.5.1
A Clearing Member may organise itself in such manner as it sees fit in relation to the
performance of its clearing and back office obligations pursuant to the CDS Clearing
Documentation, provided that it can satisfy LCH SA that it maintains sufficient oversight over the
performance of such function.
Article 1.2.5.2
Subject to Article 1.2.5.3, a Clearing Member may outsource the performance of all or part of its
clearing activities, subject that the Clearing Member shall remain responsible to LCH SA for the
performance of all such activities pursuant to the CDS Clearing Documentation. In respect of any
such outsourcing, the Clearing Member shall ensure that:
(xl)

any entity to whom such activities are outsourced have the ability, capacity and
authorisation to carry out such functions;

(xli)

it supervises and monitors the performance of the outsourced activities; and

(xlii)

it has effective access to data related to the outsourced activities and to the business
premises of the entity to whom the activities have been outsourced and is able to
provide such access to LCH SA as would apply to the Clearing Member under this CDS
Clearing Rule Book.

Article 1.2.5.3
A Clearing Member may only outsource a material part of its clearing activities with the prior
consent of LCH SA. In this context, an outsourcing will be "material" if a failure in the
performance of the outsourcee entity would be such as to materially impair the ability of the
Clearing Member to perform its obligations to LCH SA. LCH SA may decline to approve such an
outsourcing if a failure in such arrangement could be such as to materially impair the ongoing
financial soundness or the proper performance of the CDS Clearing Service.
Section 1.2.6

Membership of industry organisations or systems relating to CDS contracts

Article 1.2.6.1
Clearing Members must be members of industry organisations or systems relating to CDS, as
designated by LCH SA from time to time as such in accordance with Section 5 of the Procedures.
LCH SA may only make a designation where it is reasonable to do so or it is otherwise necessary
for a Clearing Member to utilise the CDS Clearing Service.

8
LCH SA_FORM CA-1 APPLICATION_EXHIBIT O

Section 1.2.7

Third party contractual obligations

Article 1.2.7.1
The payment of Physical Settlement Amounts shall not be subject to the provisions of this
Section 1.2.7 save as set out in the CDS Clearing Supplement.
Relationship with Securities Settlement Agents and Payment Agents
Article 1.2.7.2
A Clearing Member that wishes to use a Securities Settlement Agent and/or a Payment Agent to:
(xliii)

deliver Eligible Collateral;

(xliv)

provide Cash Collateral; or

(xlv)

perform Cash Payment obligations

in accordance with the CDS Clearing Documentation, must enter into an agreement with a
Securities Settlement Agent and/or a Payment Agent, on such terms as allow the Clearing
Member to perform its obligations under the CDS Clearing Documentation as required by LCH
SA.
Article 1.2.7.3
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 1.2.7.2 above, the use of a Securities Settlement Agent
and a Payment Agent shall not relieve the Clearing Member of its obligations under the CDS
Clearing Documentation.
Provisions related to Payment Agents
Article 1.2.7.4
Clearing Members must ensure that they are able to comply with their Cash Payment obligations
to LCH SA and their obligations to provide Cash Collateral, in respect of Euro, through TARGET2
and, in respect of US Dollar, through their cash account(s) in US Dollar, in each case as provided
for in Section 3 of the Procedures.
Article 1.2.7.5
Each Clearing Member must provide LCH SA with a Power of Attorney enabling it to directly
debit or credit the Clearing Member’s TARGET2 Account(s) and/or cash account(s) in US Dollar or
the cash account(s) of any Payment Agent, being used to satisfy the Clearing Member’s
obligations under Article 1.2.7.2.

9
LCH SA_FORM CA-1 APPLICATION_EXHIBIT O

Provisions related to Securities Settlement Agents
Article 1.2.7.6
Each Clearing Member shall ensure that it has entered into arrangements with the relevant
central securities depository or securities settlement system enabling them to provide Eligible
Collateral through such central securities depository or securities settlement system if required.
Relationship with the Approved Trade Source System(s)
Article 1.2.7.7
Clearing Members and LCH SA use the services offered by Approved Trade Source System(s)
(which, for the avoidance of doubt, include DTCC) in accordance with their own contractual
arrangements.
LCH SA shall not be responsible for verifying the content of such contractual arrangements
between Clearing Members and the Approved Trade Source System(s).
Section 1.2.8

Test processing

Article 1.2.8.1
Each Clearing Member must participate in technical and operational tests, organised reasonably
at the discretion of LCH SA, in order, amongst other things, to ensure the continuity and orderly
functioning of the CDS Clearing Service.

10
LCH SA_FORM CA-1 APPLICATION_EXHIBIT O

EXHIBIT P
Attach as Exhibit P, copies of any form of contracts governing the terms on which
persons may subscribe to clearing agency services provided by the registrant.
Each prospective clearing member must enter into:
(i)

a CDS Admission Agreement, which requires each clearing member to represent
and undertake, among other things, that it has the resources and expertise required
to perform its clearing activities and that it will comply at all times with the CDS
Clearing Documentation (i.e., the CDS Clearing Rules, the CDS Clearing
Supplement, the CDS Admission Agreement, etc.); and

(ii)

an Access Agreement, which sets out the terms and conditions under which LCH
SA provides clearing access solutions and support services to clearing members
and clearing members’ third party software and technology providers.

In addition, FCM clearing members must enter into a separate FCM CDS Admission
Agreement, the content of which is materially similar to that of the CDS Admission
Agreement. Copies of the current CDS Admission Agreement, FCM CDS Admission
Agreement and Access Agreement are attached as Exhibit P-1, Exhibit P-2 and Exhibit P3 (including Exhibit P-3.1, Exhibit P-3.2 and Exhibit P-3.3 for schedules), respectively.

LCH SA_FORM CA-1 APPLICATION_EXHIBIT P

EXHIBIT P-1

CDS ADMISSION AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is made on []

BETWEEN
(1)

"Banque Centrale de Compensation", a clearing house for financial instruments, incorporated as a
French law société anonyme with its registered office at 18, rue du Quatre Septembre 75002 Paris,
France, registered in the Commerce and Companies Register of Paris under the number 692 032
485, for the purposes hereof duly represented by Jean-Marie Boudet, acting in the capacity of
Chief Risk Officer Europe, ("LCH SA"); and

(2)

[], with its registered office at [], incorporated in [], [[recorded in][registered at]] [
under the number [], (the "CDS Clearing Member"),

],

(each a “Party” and collectively, the "Parties").

WHEREAS
(A)

LCH SA is a clearing house within the meaning of Article L. 440-1 of the French Monetary and
Financial Code and Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) n° 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of
the Council of 4 July 2012 on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories.

(B)

LCH SA acts as a central counterparty for clearing Original Transactions entered into between the
CDS Buyer and the CDS Seller in accordance with the CDS Clearing Documentation. LCH SA is under
the supervision of its Competent Authorities within the scope of their respective remit as granted
by their national law and has additionally been notified to the European Commission as a securities
settlement system for the purposes of the Settlement Finality Directive.

(C)

In this capacity, within the framework of its statutory and regulatory prerogatives, LCH SA has
established the CDS Clearing Documentation, in accordance with which it clears Original
Transactions, supervises the Cleared Transactions registered in the name of the Clearing Members,
calculates the associated risk, calls Margin to cover this risk, ensures the proper settlement of the
Cleared Transactions as central counterparty, manages the CDS Default Management Process and
performs all other functions specified in the CDS Clearing Documentation.

(D)

The CDS Clearing Member desires to be admitted to membership of the CDS Clearing System for
the purpose of clearing Original Transactions and LCH SA, having determined that the CDS Clearing
Member satisfies for the time being the relevant criteria for admission, agrees to admit the CDS
Clearing Member to membership of the CDS Clearing System, subject to the terms and conditions
of this Agreement, as amended from time to time.

1

1

PURPOSE AND SCOPE

1.1

This Agreement sets out the terms and conditions on which LCH SA agrees to admit the CDS
Clearing Member to membership of the CDS Clearing Service pursuant to the CDS Clearing
Documentation, and those on which the CDS Clearing Member shall undertake its CDS clearing
activities pursuant to and in accordance with the CDS Clearing Documentation.

1.2

Execution of this Agreement supersedes and terminates any previous membership agreement
which may have been in place between the Parties with respect to the CDS Clearing Service.

1.3

Without prejudice to Section 20 below, this Agreement, together with:
1.3.1

the terms of any other agreement relating to the provision of the CDS Clearing Service by
LCH SA to which the Parties are party;

1.3.2

the terms of and applicable to each and every Cleared Transaction;

1.3.3

the CDS Clearing Documentation; and

1.3.4

all amendments duly made to any of the foregoing,

shall together constitute a single agreement between the Parties, and both Parties acknowledge
that all Cleared Transactions are entered into in reliance upon the fact that all such items constitute
a single agreement between the Parties.

2

DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION

2.1

Capitalised terms used in this Agreement shall, unless specifically provided otherwise, have the
meanings stipulated in the document entitled "CDS Clearing Rule Book" published by LCH SA, as
amended from time to time (the "CDS Clearing Rule Book").

2.2

References in this Agreement to a Section are to a Section of this Agreement unless otherwise
indicated, and Section headings are for ease of reference only.

2.3

Unless the context otherwise requires, words (including defined terms) denoting the singular shall
include the plural and vice versa.

2.4

References to writing include typing, printing, lithography, photography, facsimile transmission,
and other modes of representing or reproducing words in a visual form.

2.5

References in this Agreement to statutes, statutory instruments, the CDS Clearing Documentation
(or any document forming part of the CDS Clearing Documentation) or provisions thereof, are to
those statutes, statutory instruments, the CDS Clearing Documentation (or any document forming
part of the CDS Clearing Documentation) or provisions thereof as amended, modified or replaced
from time to time.

3

CLEARING MEMBERSHIP

3.1

The CDS Clearing Member is hereby admitted as a clearing member of the CDS Clearing Service on
the terms set out in this Agreement. The CDS Clearing Member shall be eligible to clear all
categories of Original Transactions contemplated under the CDS Clearing Service from time to time,

2

subject in each case to meeting any additional requirements specified in the Procedures from time
to time.

3.2

The CDS Clearing Member warrants that the information supplied to LCH SA for the purposes of
determining whether it has satisfied the conditions for admission, as set out in Title II
(Membership) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book and Section 1 of the Procedures (Membership), was
when provided and is at the date of this Agreement true and accurate in all material respects.

3.3

The Parties undertake to comply at all times with this Agreement and the CDS Clearing
Documentation, as amended from time to time.

3.4

LCH SA and the CDS Clearing Member each represent to the other that, as at the date of this
Agreement, and at all times prior to the termination of this Agreement:
3.4.1

it is duly incorporated or otherwise organised and validly existing under the laws of its
jurisdiction of incorporation;

3.4.2

it has the power and authority to enter into this Agreement and has taken all necessary
corporate actions to authorise the execution of this Agreement;

3.4.3

to the extent it is required under Applicable Law to be authorised, licensed or approved in
relation to activities undertaken by it, that all required governmental and/or regulatory
and other consents with respect to this Agreement, have been obtained and are in full
force and effect and that any or all conditions of any such consents have been and are
complied with;

3.4.4

it has full knowledge and understanding of the provisions of the CDS Clearing
Documentation and shall abide by its obligations under the CDS Clearing Documentation;

3.4.5

execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement do not violate or conflict with any
law applicable to it, any provision of its constitutional documents, any order or judgment
of any court or other agency of government applicable to it or any of its assets or any
contractual restriction binding on or affecting it or any of its assets;

3.4.6

its obligations under this Agreement constitute its legal, valid and binding obligations,
enforceable in accordance with their respective terms (subject to applicable bankruptcy,
reorganisation, insolvency, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors’ rights generally
and subject, as to enforceability, to equitable principles of general application (regardless
of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding in equity or at law));

3.4.7

no Event of Default or LCH Default, as applicable, with respect to it has occurred and is
continuing and no Event of Default or LCH Default, as applicable, would occur as a result of
its entering into or performing its obligations under this Agreement; and

3.4.8

there is not pending or, to its knowledge, threatened against it, any action, suit or
proceeding at law or in equity or before any court, tribunal, governmental body, agency or
official or any arbitrator that is likely to affect the legality, validity or enforceability against
it of this Agreement or its ability to perform its obligations under this Agreement.

3

3.5

The Parties agree that the maximum amount of any fine that LCH SA can impose on the CDS
Clearing Member, pursuant to Paragraph 8.3 of Section 8 of the Procedures (Disciplinary
Proceedings), is as set out in the fine grid at Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

4

DELEGATION
The CDS Clearing Member irrevocably delegates LCH SA, in favour of each of its Clients, in the
payment to each of its Clients of an amount equal to the CDS Client Clearing Entitlement calculated
in respect of each of its Clients, if any. The Delegation is a délégation imparfaite governed by
articles 1275 et seq. of the French Civil Code and the CDS Clearing Documentation. Accordingly, the
CDS Clearing Member irrevocably:
(i)

directs LCH SA to pay to each of its Clients, an amount equal to the relevant CDS Client
Clearing Entitlement, if positive; and

(ii)

agrees that, upon LCH SA paying the amount due in accordance with the Delegation to
each Client of the CDS Clearing Member, LCH SA shall irrevocably be discharged pro tanto
from paying an amount equal to the relevant CDS Client Clearing Entitlement to the CDS
Clearing Member automatically without further notice;

For the avoidance of doubt, this Delegation shall not restrict or otherwise prejudice the
entitlement of the CDS Clearing Member to any Collateral in relation to its House Margin Account
save as expressly provided above.

5

TRANSFER OF CLIENT PLEDGED ELIGIBLE COLLATERAL FOLLOWING AN EVENT OF
DEFAULT
The CDS Clearing Member covenants that, immediately upon LCH SA issuing a Default Notice
declaring it to be a Defaulting Clearing Member and requesting it to transfer Client Pledged Eligible
Collateral, in accordance with the CDS Clearing Rule Book and Section 3 of the Procedures, the CDS
Clearing Member will transfer the ownership of the Client Pledged Eligible Collateral to LCH SA to
facilitate:
(i)

the transfer of Ported Collateral to an appointed Backup Clearing Member; and/or

(ii)

the payment of the CDS Client Clearing Entitlement,

in accordance with the CDS Clearing Rules.

6

FEES, COSTS AND PAYMENT TERMS

6.1

In consideration of being granted membership of the CDS Clearing Service, the CDS Clearing
Member shall pay LCH SA fees in accordance with Section 1.2.6 (Fees) of the CDS Clearing Rule
Book.

6.2

All fees shall be payable by the CDS Clearing Member to LCH SA, in Euro, on a monthly basis in
accordance with Section 6.5.

6.3

The CDS Clearing Member shall issue a Power of Attorney in favour of LCH SA to allow the debiting
or crediting of the TARGET2 Account (or the relevant cash account of its TARGET2 Payment Agent),

4

which is used to satisfy Collateral Calls made by LCH SA using its LCH House TARGET2 Account in
accordance with Section 3 of the Procedures, for the purposes of fee payments pursuant to Section
6.1.

6.4

LCH SA may index or adjust the fees published on the Website from time to time at its discretion.
LCH SA shall give the CDS Clearing Member no less than thirty (30) calendar days’ prior notice of
any such change.

6.5

On the date falling ten (10) Business Days after the end of each calendar month, LCH SA shall debit
any due and payable fees (the “Fee Balance”) from the relevant CDS Clearing Member’s TARGET2
Account (or the relevant cash account of its TARGET2 Payment Agent) using its Power of Attorney.
On or before the fifth Business Day after the end of each calendar month, LCH SA shall issue an
invoice to the CDS Clearing Member detailing the Fee Balance to be debited pursuant to this
Section 6.5 (the “Fee Notice”).

6.6

In circumstances where LCH SA is not able to debit the Fee Balance from the relevant CDS Clearing
Member’s TARGET2 Account (or the relevant cash account of its TARGET2 Payment Agent) using its
Power of Attorney, the CDS Clearing Member shall pay the Fee Balance to LCH SA within thirty (30)
calendar days of receiving the Fee Notice from LCH SA and in such manner as specified in the Fee
Notice.

7

MARKET DATA, END OF DAY CONTRIBUTED PRICES AND MARKIT LCH SETTLEMENT
PRICES

7.1

Subject to Section 7.3, LCH SA may require the CDS Clearing Member to provide it with Market
Data. The CDS Clearing Member will satisfy its obligation to provide LCH SA with Market Data by
acting in accordance with the procedure set out in Section 5 (CDS Clearing Operations) of the
Procedures.

7.2

The CDS Clearing Member hereby warrants that it has put in place such arrangements as are
necessary for it to provide LCH SA with Market Data in accordance with Section 5 (CDS Clearing
Operations) of the Procedures and will inform LCH SA of any termination or material change to
such agreement that will impede its fulfilment of obligations with respect to the provision of
Market Data.

7.3

LCH SA acknowledges that the CDS Clearing Member shall not be obliged to provide Market Data
which it is restricted from disclosing by law or regulation or as a result of agreements with third
parties which predate the date of this Agreement. In the absence of any notification at the date of
this Agreement by the CDS Clearing Member, LCH SA shall be entitled to assume no such third
party agreements exist.

7.4

In respect of any Market Data provided to LCH SA in accordance with this Agreement and the CDS
Clearing Documentation:
7.4.1

the CDS Clearing Member will retain all ownership and intellectual property rights or other
rights in respect of that Market Data;

7.4.2

LCH SA will keep that Market Data securely and properly protected against theft, damage,
loss and unauthorised access;

5

7.4.3

7.4.4

7.5

LCH SA will treat the CDS Clearing Member’s Market Data as strictly confidential and shall
not display, disclose, distribute, identify or otherwise make it available to any person other
than to:
(i)

a third party data aggregator that is responsible for compiling the End of Day
Contributed Prices in accordance with the CDS Clearing Documentation (a “Third
Party Data Aggregator”); or

(ii)

the CDS Clearing Member that has provided it;

LCH SA may only use the Market Data to aggregate it, or permit a Third Party Data
Aggregator to aggregate it, with the Market Data received from all other Clearing
Members for the purpose of creating the End of Day Contributed Prices for the CDS
Clearing Service and LCH SA will not use the Market Data received from the CDS Clearing
Member for any other purpose.

LCH SA may only use any data aggregated from the Market Data, including the End of Day
Contributed Prices (the “Aggregated Data”):
7.5.1

7.5.2

for the purpose of the CDS Clearing Service, for clearing and settlement, including:
(i)

to calculate the Margin Requirements, Variation Margin Requirements or
Contribution Requirement of each Clearing Member;

(ii)

to calculate Markit LCH Settlement Prices;

(iii)

to value Cleared Transactions; and

(iv)

to distribute Markit LCH Settlement Prices and provide valuation reporting to each
Clearing Member; and

for the purpose of responding to:
(i)

ad hoc queries from Clearing Members and industry bodies (but not systematic,
regular distribution) relating to the CDS Clearing Service; and

(ii)

surveys conducted by relevant international organisations (such as IOSCO) relating
to the CDS Clearing Service.

provided that where the responses to queries or surveys pursuant to this Section 7.5.2 are
to include the Markit LCH Settlement Prices, this data may be communicated only with the
prior consent of the Third Party Data Aggregator, such consent not to be unreasonably
withheld.

7.6

LCH SA shall not use or share any Aggregated Data with third parties other than a Third Party Data
Aggregator (whether for fees or otherwise), save with the written prior consent or at the written
proposal of at least 50% of Clearing Members by reference to the volume of Open Positions held in
the Clearing Members’ House Margin Accounts.

7.7

LCH SA hereby undertakes that it has full rights and authority to provide Markit LCH Settlement
Prices to the CDS Clearing Member and to allow the CDS Clearing Member to use and/or disclose

6

the Markit LCH Settlement Prices for the purposes set out in Section 4.2.8 (Markit LCH Settlement
Price) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book.

7.8

The CDS Clearing Member acknowledges and agrees that any Third Party Data Aggregator shall be
an intended third party beneficiary of Section 4.2.8 (Markit LCH Settlement Price) of the CDS
Clearing Rule Book.

7.9

Nothing in Section 7.7 shall prevent the CDS Clearing Member from using the Markit LCH
Settlement Prices (and any other Aggregated Data provided to it) for any purpose where it is
permitted to do so by the relevant Third Party Data Aggregator or any other third party with the
requisite authority.

7.10

Where LCH SA makes Market Data available to a Third Party Data Aggregator, LCH SA shall procure
that the Third Party Data Aggregator:

7.11

7.12

7.13

7.10.1

acknowledges, and agrees to, the CDS Clearing Member rights as set out in Section 7.4.1;

7.10.2

maintains protections in order to ensure that Market Data is securely and properly
protected against theft, damage, loss and unauthorised access;

7.10.3

does not display, disclose, distribute, identify or otherwise make the Market Data
available, other than in connection with the Third Party Data Aggregator’s permitted use of
End of Day Contributed Prices;

7.10.4

consents to the CDS Clearing Member using the Markit LCH Settlement Prices for the
purposes set out in Section 7.7 above.

Nothing in this Section 7 or Section 11 prevents LCH SA from:
7.11.1

using or disclosing Market Data, Markit LCH Settlement Prices or Aggregated Data where
it is required to do so by Applicable Law or where required or formally requested to do so
pursuant to an order of a competent court or by a Regulatory Body; or

7.11.2

using (but not displaying, disclosing or identifying) Market Data, Markit LCH Settlement
Prices or Aggregated Data (i) upon the advice of the Risk Committee and (ii) in accordance
with the terms of the licence granted to LCH SA by the Third Party Data Aggregator.

Nothing in this Section 7 or Section 11 prevents the CDS Clearing Member from using or disclosing
Markit LCH Settlement Prices, or other Aggregated Data provided to it, for whatsoever purpose
where such Markit LCH Settlement Prices, or other Aggregated Data, as the case may be, are:
7.12.1

made available to the public by either LCH SA or a Third Party Data Aggregator, by virtue
of Applicable Law, the order of a Regulatory Body or otherwise; or

7.12.2

received by the CDS Clearing Member other than as a result of a breach of any agreement
entered into between LCH SA and the CDS Clearing Member (including this Agreement).

Amendments to this Section 7 will become effective if LCH SA obtains the written prior consent of,
or receives a written proposal from, at least 50% of Clearing Members by reference to the volume
of Open Positions held in the Clearing Members’ House Margin Accounts.

7

8

LANGUAGE

8.1

This Agreement and the CDS Clearing Documentation shall be drawn up and issued in English,
provided that the CDS Clearing Rule Book shall be drawn up and issued in French for the purpose
of its approval by the AMF. Different language versions or translations of this Agreement and/or
the CDS Clearing Documentation may also be issued for information purposes.

8.2

Subject to Article 1.1.3.8 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, in the event of inconsistency between
different language versions or translations of this Agreement or the CDS Clearing Documentation,
the English language version shall prevail.

8.3

General communications of LCH SA as well as all applications, filings, correspondence with, and
submissions to LCH SA by the CDS Clearing Member may be in either English or in French, unless
expressly agreed otherwise by LCH SA. Upon the request of the CDS Clearing Member, any
communications issued by LCH SA in French will also be provided in English.

8.4

The Persons nominated and notified to LCH SA, pursuant to Article 2.2.1.1(xiii) of the CDS Clearing
Rule Book, as being responsible for the clearing operations of the CDS Clearing Member and
authorised to act on behalf of the CDS Clearing Member in respect of all transactions with or
involving LCH SA under the CDS Clearing Documentation, shall be either English or Frenchspeaking, unless expressly agreed otherwise by LCH SA.

9

TERM AND TERMINATION

9.1

This Agreement has been entered into for an indefinite period of time and takes effect on
notification by LCH SA of its acceptance of the CDS Clearing Member’s application for membership
of the CDS Clearing Service and the fulfilment of all conditions precedent imposed by LCH SA on
the CDS Clearing Member.

9.2

This Agreement shall terminate on the date that termination of the CDS Clearing Member’s
membership is deemed effective in accordance with the CDS Clearing Rule Book.

9.3

The termination of this Agreement is without prejudice to accrued rights and obligations of the
CDS Clearing Member under the CDS Clearing Documentation or arising from Cleared Transactions
entered into prior to such termination and settlement of all amounts due and payable to, or by, the
CDS Clearing Member from, or to, LCH SA (as the case may be) shall be dealt with in accordance
with the CDS Clearing Documentation.

9.4

Any termination of this Agreement shall be co-ordinated with termination of any agreement
providing technical access to LCH SA for the purpose of the CDS Clearing Service provided by LCH
SA in accordance with the CDS Clearing Documentation.

10

AMENDMENTS

10.1

Subject to Section 7.13, LCH SA shall be permitted to amend this Agreement, as necessary, to
comply with a change in Applicable Law or the CDS Clearing Documentation, as soon as such
change takes effect, or in accordance with the procedure described in Section 1.2.2 (Modification)
of the CDS Clearing Rule Book.

8

10.2

LCH SA shall be permitted to amend Schedule 3 to this Agreement from time to time following
consultation with the Risk Committee.

10.3

The terms of this Agreement (other than the tax representations set out in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement and the tax forms set out in Schedule 2 to this Agreement) must at all times be
materially equivalent to the terms included in the CDS Admission Agreement that LCH SA has
entered into with each other Clearing Member, admitted on the same basis, in relation to the CDS
Clearing Service.

11

CONFIDENTIALITY

11.1

Each Party (“Recipient”) undertakes to the other Party (each, a “Disclosing Party”) to treat as
confidential all the information and/or documents, in any form whatsoever, obtained:
11.1.1

in performing this Agreement;

11.1.2

participating in any Clearing Member or LCH SA committees which may be established by
LCH SA from time to time;

11.1.3

from the Disclosing Party either directly or from any other person which concerns the
business, operations, customers or users of the Disclosing Party including any data and/or
electronic data files,

whether or not such items are associated with a notice of confidentiality (the “Confidential
Information”).

11.2

The Recipient may only use and disclose the Confidential Information for the purposes of, and in
accordance with, this Agreement and the CDS Clearing Documentation (the "Permitted Purpose").

11.3

The Recipient may only provide its employees, directors, subcontractors and professional advisers
(together with their respective employees, directors or any other representatives, subcontractors
and professional advisers (“Permitted Users”)) with access to the Confidential Information on a
strict “need-to-know” basis. The Recipient shall ensure that each of its Permitted Users is bound to
hold all Confidential Information in confidence to the standard required under this Agreement.
Where a Permitted User is not an employee or director of the Recipient (and is not under a
professional duty to protect confidentiality) the Recipient shall ensure that the Permitted User
shall, prior to receiving the Confidential Information, enter into a written confidentiality
undertaking with the Recipient on substantially equivalent terms to this Agreement, a copy of
which shall be provided to the Disclosing Party upon request.

11.4

In consideration of being given some information or having it made available, the Recipient agrees
it shall treat as strictly confidential and shall not disclose or allow to be disclosed to any person:
11.4.1

the Confidential Information;

11.4.2

the fact it has received any Confidential Information;

11.4.3

the existence of any discussions or negotiations between the Parties in this matter; or

11.4.4

details of the Permitted Purpose and any of the proposals, terms, conditions, facts or other
matters relating to any of the foregoing,

9

unless and to the extent it is authorised to do so pursuant to this Section 11.

11.5

The Parties acknowledge that property in the Confidential Information shall not pass to the
Recipient, and the property of the media on which it is conveyed shall not pass to the Recipient.

11.6

This Section 11 does not apply to any information which:
11.6.1

is in or subsequently enters the public domain other than as a result of a breach of this
Section 11; or

11.6.2

has been or is subsequently received by the Recipient from a third party and the Recipient
is under no confidentiality obligation in respect of that information other than under this
Agreement; or

11.6.3

has been or is subsequently independently developed by the Recipient without use of the
Disclosing Party’s Confidential Information; or

11.6.4

the Disclosing Party has agreed in writing may be disclosed.

11.7

The CDS Clearing Member agrees to establish and adhere to adequate procedures (including,
without limitation, the establishment of appropriate information barriers) and take all steps to
ensure that any Permitted User to whom Confidential Information has been disclosed shall not use
any part or all of that Confidential Information for any purpose outside the scope of the Permitted
Purpose.

11.8

Each Permitted User may disclose Confidential Information (or, where the Permitted User is an
individual, his or her employer) and give the Disclosing Party prompt advance written notice of the
disclosure in accordance with Section 1.2.12 (Confidentiality) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book.

11.9

Notwithstanding the foregoing, either Party may, in their commercial activities, publicly refer to the
name of the CDS Clearing Member and its membership to LCH SA, and LCH SA may (without
identifying the CDS Clearing Member) use figures as to the CDS Clearing Member’s activity in the
compilation of statistics for publication, and for similar purposes provided that the identity of the
CDS Clearing Member is not attributable.

11.10 The provisions of this Section 11 shall survive any termination of this Agreement but shall expire on
the third anniversary of the date the Confidential Information was first provided to the Recipient,
without prejudice to confidentiality obligations under any Applicable Law which would prevent the
Recipient from disclosing or using the Confidential Material other than pursuant to and in
accordance with this Section 11.

11.11 Upon request by the Disclosing Party, the Recipient shall, as far as practicably possible, promptly
return to the Disclosing Party, or destroy (at its discretion), the Confidential Information and all
copies thereof in the possession or control of the Recipient, and shall certify in writing that the
Permitted User has not retained any of the Confidential Information, except to the extent that the
Confidential Information forms part of:
11.11.1 the permanent records of the Recipient which it is bound by applicable legal or regulatory

requirement or any compliance policy applicable to it to preserve; or

10

11.11.2 any electronic records which are customarily backed up in the normal course of the

Recipient’s business,
in which event the Recipient may retain the Confidential Information in strictest confidence in
accordance with the provisions of this Section 11.

11.12 Where the CDS Clearing Member ceases to participate in any Clearing Member or LCH SA
committee as may be established by LCH SA from time to time, the CDS Clearing Member shall, to
the extent reasonably practicable to do so, promptly:
11.12.1 return to LCH SA by a secure method of transportation all or any part of the Confidential

Information; or
11.12.2 destroy such information and shall certify to LCH SA in writing that it has done so,

(at its discretion), provided that the CDS Clearing Member is permitted to retain a copy to the
extent that the Confidential Information forms part of the CDS Clearing Member’s permanent
records which it is bound by applicable legal or regulatory requirement or any compliance policy
applicable to it to preserve.

11.13 Without affecting any other rights or remedies that each Party may have, each Party acknowledges
that the other may be irrevocably harmed by any breach of the terms of this Section 11 and that
damages alone may not necessarily be an adequate remedy. Accordingly, each Party will be
entitled to the remedies of injunction, specific performance and other equitable relief, or any
combination of these remedies, for any threatened or actual breach of the terms of this Section 11,
and no proof of special damages will be necessary to enforce this Agreement.

11.14 The provisions of this Section 11 shall not restrict or otherwise affect the rights of LCHSA to
disclose Confidential Information pursuant to and in accordance with Section 1.2.12
(Confidentiality) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book. By entering into this Agreement, the CDS Clearing
Member expressly consents to the disclosure of information by LCH SA pursuant to and in
accordance with the CDS Clearing Rule Book.

12

TAX

12.1

All payments made under or in connection with this Agreement shall be subject to the tax
provisions set out in Section 1.2.17 (Tax) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book.

12.2

LCH SA and the CDS Clearing Member each make to the other, as at the date of this Agreement and
at all times prior to termination of this Agreement, the tax representations specified as applicable
to it in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

12.3

The tax representations described in Articles 1.2.10.3(xii) and 1.2.17.2 of the CDS Clearing Rule
Book are those tax representations set out in Schedule 1 to this Agreement and made pursuant to
Section 12.2, as applicable to the relevant Party.

12.4

LCH SA and the CDS Clearing Member will deliver to each other the relevant forms, documents or
certificates specified as applicable to it in Schedule 2 to this Agreement in each case by the date so
specified or, if none is specified, as soon as reasonably practicable following reasonable request
from the other Party.

11

12.5

The forms, documents and certificates described at Articles 1.2.17.2, 1.2.17.5 and 1.2.17.6 of the
CDS Clearing Rule Book are those forms, documents and certificates specified in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and that are to be delivered pursuant to Section 12.4 above, as applicable to the
relevant Party.

13

HEDGING ISDA AGREEMENT

13.1

The Parties agree that:
13.1.1

all transactions entered into between them for the purpose of Hedging (each, a "Hedging
Transaction") will be governed by; and

13.1.2

any document, exchange of telexes, exchange of electronic messages on an electronic
messaging system or an exchange of emails confirming any such Hedging Transaction
(each, a "Confirmation") will supplement, form a part of and be subject to,

an agreement in the form of the ISDA 2002 Master Agreement as published by ISDA (the “Hedging
ISDA Agreement”) as if they had executed an agreement in such form (but without any Schedule
except for the elections and provisions set out in Section 13.2 below) on the Trade Date of the first
such Hedging Transaction between them, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in a
Confirmation.

13.2

13.3

The following elections and provisions will be incorporated into the Hedging ISDA Agreement:
13.2.1

English law will be the governing law;

13.2.2

the Automatic Early Termination provision of Section 6(a) of the Hedging ISDA Agreement
will not apply to LCH SA;

13.2.3

the Automatic Early Termination provision of Section 6(a) of the Hedging ISDA Agreement
[[will]/[will not]] apply to the CDS Clearing Member;

13.2.4

for the purposes of Sections 3(e) and 3(f), as applicable, of the Hedging ISDA Agreement,
LCH SA and the CDS Clearing Member each make the representations specified as
applicable to it in Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

13.2.5

for the purposes of Sections 4(a)(i) and 4(a)(ii) of the Hedging ISDA Agreement, LCH SA and
the CDS Clearing Member each agree to deliver the tax forms, documents or certificates
specified as applicable to it in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

Each Party:
13.3.1

represents to the other Party, on the date of this Agreement and on each date on which it
enters into a Hedging Transaction, that it has full knowledge and understanding of the
provisions of the Hedging ISDA Agreement; and

13.3.2

agrees that it will perform its obligations under the Hedging ISDA Agreement in
accordance with the terms of such Hedging ISDA Agreement.

12

14

SEVERABILITY
If one or more provisions of this Agreement are deemed to be invalid or ruled to be invalid in
application of a statute or regulation or following a final decision of a competent court, the other
provisions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.

15

GENERAL

15.1

Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to constitute a partnership between the Parties, nor
constitute either Party the agent of the other Party for any purpose.

15.2

The rights, powers, remedies and privileges of each Party under this Agreement:
15.2.1

may be exercised as often as necessary;

15.2.2

are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, powers, remedies and privileges provided
by Applicable Law; and

15.2.3

may be waived in writing and specifically. Delay or failure in exercising any right is not a
waiver of that right.

15.3

The CDS Clearing Documentation constitutes the entire agreement and understanding of LCH SA
and the CDS Clearing Member with respect to its subject matter. LCH SA and the CDS Clearing
Member acknowledge that in entering into this Agreement it has not relied on any oral or written
representation, warranty or other assurance (except as provided for or referred to in the CDS
Clearing Documentation) and waives all rights and remedies which might otherwise be available to
it in respect thereof, except that nothing in the CDS Clearing Documentation will limit or exclude
any liability of a Party for fraud.

16

TRANSFER
Subject to the CDS Clearing Documentation, neither this Agreement nor any interest or obligation
in or under this Agreement may be transferred (whether by way of security or otherwise) by LCH
SA or the CDS Clearing Member without the prior written consent of the other Party.

17

NOTICES

17.1

Any notice or communication to be made under or in connection with this Agreement shall be
made in writing to:

17.2

17.1.1

The CDS Clearing Member at its registered office or branch (in case the activity is located
at the latter), as specified in its application for membership of the CDS Clearing Service;
and

17.1.2

LCH SA at its head office at 18, rue du Quatre Septembre, 75002 Paris, France.

LCH SA shall deliver any notice or communication which is required to be given to the CDS Clearing
Member pursuant to the CDS Clearing Documentation by electronic transmission, email, facsimile
or telephone to the email address, facsimile number or telephone number specified by the CDS
Clearing Member in its application for membership of the CDS Clearing Service. The CDS Clearing

13

Member may, by notice to LCH SA, change the details at which notices or communications are to
be given to it.

17.3

The CDS Clearing Member consents to LCH SA providing the address specified pursuant to Section
1.6(ii) of the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol to any other Clearing Member of the CDS Clearing
Service solely for the purposes of sections 1.6(ii) and 9.3 of the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol.

18

DISPUTE RESOLUTION

18.1

For the avoidance of doubt, all Disputes shall be referred to and finally resolved by arbitration or by
litigation, as applicable, in accordance with the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol, subject to the
provisions of Sections 8 (Disciplinary Proceedings) and 9 (Complaint Resolution) of the Procedures.

18.2

The version of the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol in force as at the date of execution of this
Agreement is attached as Schedule 4 to this Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, the CDS
Dispute Resolution Protocol may be amended from time to time by LCH SA in accordance with
Section 1.2.2 (Modification) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book.

19

ELECTION OF DOMICILE / PROCESS AGENT

19.1

Without prejudice to the dispute resolution provisions set out in Section 18 above:
19.1.1

the CDS Clearing Member irrevocably elects domicile with [] at [] [CDS Clearing
Member: Please specify an entity and address in Paris] for the purposes of any litigation
in accordance with Section 6 of the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol;

19.1.2

if it is not incorporated in England or Wales, the CDS Clearing Member either:
(i)

irrevocably appoints [] [CDS Clearing Member: Please specify an entity in
England or enter “NOT APPLICABLE”] as its agent under the CDS Clearing
Documentation (including this Agreement) for service of process; or

(ii)

consents to having service effected upon it at [ ][CDS Clearing Member: Please
specify an entity in England or enter “NOT APPLICABLE”], and agrees that valid
service at such branch shall constitute effective service on it,

in any ancillary proceedings before the English courts in connection with any arbitration
proceedings pursuant to the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol; and
19.1.3

19.2

LCH SA irrevocably appoints LCH Group Limited at Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street,
London EC3N 1EA as its agent under the CDS Clearing Documentation (including this
Agreement) for service of process in any ancillary proceedings before the English courts in
connection with any arbitration proceedings pursuant to the CDS Dispute Resolution
Protocol.

The CDS Clearing Member may, at its discretion, change its elected domicile in Paris for the
purposes of Section 19.1.1 above by giving notice of its new elected domicile in Paris to LCH SA in
accordance with Section 17 above. Any document served on the CDS Clearing Member at its
former elected domicile (i) before such notification is received by the serving Party or (ii) 15
Business Days after such notification is received by the serving Party will be deemed validly served.

14

For the avoidance of doubt, any document served on the CDS Clearing Member at its new elected
domicile in Paris will be deemed validly served as from the date of the relevant notification sent by
the CDS Clearing Member.

19.3

If any person appointed as process agent under this Section 19 is unable for any reason to so act,
the appointing Party must immediately give notice of this to the other Party in accordance with
Section 17 above, and must immediately (and in any event within 7 days of the event taking place)
appoint a substitute process agent, in accordance with sub-section 19.1.2(i) or 19.1.3 as applicable,
or, in the case of the CDS Clearing Member, an applicable branch located in England or Wales at
which it consents to have service effected upon it, in accordance with sub-section 19.1.2(ii).

19.4

If, where applicable, the branch specified under this Section 19 ceases to be able to act in such
capacity or no longer has an address in England or Wales, the CDS Clearing Member must
immediately give notice of this to LCH SA in accordance with Section 17 above, and must
immediately (and in any event within 2 days of the event taking place) select a substitute branch at
which it consents to have service effected upon it, in accordance with sub-section 19.1.2(ii), or a
process agent, in accordance with sub-section 19.1.2(i).

19.5

Each Party agrees that: (i) service shall be deemed completed on delivery to the relevant process
agent appointed under this Section 19; and (ii) failure by such process agent to notify such Party of
any process, or failure by such Party to receive such notification, will not invalidate the relevant
proceedings.

19.6

The CDS Clearing Member agrees that, where applicable: (i) service shall be deemed completed on
delivery to the branch appointed under this Section 19; and (ii) failure by such branch to notify the
CDS Clearing Member of any process, or failure by the CDS Clearing Member to receive such
notification will not invalidate the relevant proceedings.

19.7

This Section 19 does not affect any other method of service allowed by law.

20

GOVERNING LAW

For the avoidance of doubt, the governing law applicable to this Agreement and any non-contractual
obligations arising out of, relating to or having any connection with this Agreement shall be as set out in
Section 1.2.14 (Governing Law) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book.

15

SCHEDULE 1
TAX REPRESENTATIONS
Part 1 – Representations made by LCH SA
For the purposes of Sections 12 and 13 of this Agreement, LCH SA makes the following representation(s):
Payee Tax Representation(s)
(i)

[]

Payer Tax Representation(s)
(ii)

[]

Part 2 – Representations made by the CDS Clearing Member
For the purposes of Sections 12 and 13 of this Agreement, the CDS Clearing Member makes the following
representation(s):
Payee Tax Representation(s)
(i)

[]

Payer Tax Representation(s)
(ii)

[]

16

SCHEDULE 2
TAX FORMS TO BE DELIVERED
Part 1 – Tax forms to be provided by LCH SA
For the purposes of Sections 12 and 13 of this Agreement, LCH SA agrees to deliver the following
document(s) in each case by the date specified:
Form/Document/Certificate

Date by which to be
delivered

Any form or document accurately completed and in a manner
reasonably satisfactory to the CDS Clearing Member that may be
required or reasonably requested in order to allow the CDS Clearing
Member to make a payment without any deduction or withholding
for or on account of any Tax or with deduction or withholding at a
reduced rate, including, without limitation, an executed United
States Internal Revenue Service Form W-9 or Form W-8BEN and/or
W-8ECI (or any successor thereto).

Promptly upon reasonable
demand by the CDS Clearing
Member.

Part 2 – Tax forms to be provided by the CDS Clearing Member
For the purposes of Sections 12 and 13 of this Agreement, the CDS Clearing Member agrees to deliver the
following document(s) in each case by the date specified:
Form/Document/Certificate

Date by which to be
delivered

Any form or document accurately completed and in a manner
reasonably satisfactory to LCH SA that may be required or reasonably
requested in order to allow LCH SA to make a payment without any
deduction or withholding for or on account of any Tax or with
deduction or withholding at a reduced rate, including, without
limitation, an executed United States Internal Revenue Service Form
W-9 or Form W-8BEN and/or W-8ECI (or any successor thereto).

Promptly upon reasonable
demand by LCH SA.

17

SCHEDULE 3
FINE GRID
Breach

Fine (EUR)

Failure to provide a complete price submission file
on a Clearing Day as part of the price submission
procedure set out in Section 5 of the Procedures.

10,000

18

SCHEDULE 4
CDS DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROTOCOL

[VERSION IN FORCE AS AT THE DATE OF EXECUTION OF THE AGREEMENT TO BE INSERTED]

19

THIS AGREEMENT has been duly signed in duplicate in __________________ (place) on

________________ (date),

By
LCHSA
Name:
Title:

By
[CDS Clearing Member]
Name:
Title:

20

EXHIBIT P-2

Final version

CDS ADMISSION AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is made on []

BETWEEN
(1)

"Banque Centrale de Compensation", a clearing house for financial instruments, incorporated as a
French law société anonyme with its registered office at 18, rue du Quatre Septembre 75002 Paris,
France, registered in the Commerce and Companies Register of Paris under the number 692 032
485, for the purposes hereof duly represented by Jean-Marie Boudet, acting in the capacity of
Chief Risk Officer Europe, ("LCH SA"); and

(2)

[], with its registered office at [], incorporated in [], [recorded in][registered at] [], under the
number [], (the "CDS FCM Clearing Member"),
(each a “Party” and collectively, the "Parties").

WHEREAS
(A)

LCH SA is a clearing house within the meaning of Article L. 440-1 of the French Monetary and
Financial Code and Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) n° 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of
the Council of 4 July 2012 on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories.

(B)

LCH SA acts as a central counterparty for clearing Original Transactions entered into between AMP
Participants in accordance with the CDS Clearing Documentation. LCH SA is under the supervision
of its Competent Authorities within the scope of their respective remit as granted by their national
law and has additionally been notified to the European Commission as a securities settlement
system for the purposes of the Settlement Finality Directive.

(C)

In this capacity, within the framework of its statutory and regulatory prerogatives, LCH SA has
established the CDS Clearing Documentation, in accordance with which it clears Original
Transactions, supervises the Cleared Transactions registered in the name of the Clearing Members,
calculates the associated risk, calls Margin to cover this risk, ensures the proper settlement of the
Cleared Transactions as central counterparty, manages the CDS Default Management Process and
performs all other functions specified in the CDS Clearing Documentation.

(D)

The CDS FCM Clearing Member desires to be admitted to membership of the CDS Clearing System
for the purpose of clearing Original Transactions and LCH SA, having determined that the CDS FCM
Clearing Member satisfies for the time being the relevant criteria for admission, agrees to admit
the CDS FCM Clearing Member to membership of the CDS Clearing System, subject to the terms
and conditions of this Agreement, as amended from time to time.

1

Final version

1

PURPOSE AND SCOPE

1.1

This Agreement sets out the terms and conditions on which LCH SA agrees to admit the CDS FCM
Clearing Member to membership of the CDS Clearing Service pursuant to the CDS Clearing
Documentation, and those on which the CDS FCM Clearing Member shall undertake its CDS
clearing activities pursuant to and in accordance with the CDS Clearing Documentation.

1.2

Execution of this Agreement supersedes and terminates any previous membership agreement
which may have been in place between the Parties with respect to the CDS Clearing Service.

1.3

Without prejudice to Section 18 below, this Agreement, together with:
1.3.1

the terms of any other agreement relating to the provision of the CDS Clearing Service by
LCH SA to which the Parties are party;

1.3.2

the terms of and applicable to each and every Cleared Transaction;

1.3.3

the CDS Clearing Documentation; and

1.3.4

all amendments duly made to any of the foregoing,

shall together constitute a single agreement between the Parties, and both Parties acknowledge
that all Cleared Transactions are entered into in reliance upon the fact that all such items constitute
a single agreement between the Parties.

2

DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION

2.1

Capitalised terms used in this Agreement shall, unless specifically provided otherwise, have the
meanings stipulated in the document entitled "CDS Clearing Rule Book" published by LCH SA, as
amended from time to time (the "CDS Clearing Rule Book").

2.2

References in this Agreement to a Section are to a Section of this Agreement unless otherwise
indicated, and Section headings are for ease of reference only.

2.3

Unless the context otherwise requires, words (including defined terms) denoting the singular shall
include the plural and vice versa.

2.4

References to writing include typing, printing, lithography, photography, facsimile transmission,
and other modes of representing or reproducing words in a visual form.

2.5

References in this Agreement to statutes, statutory instruments, the CDS Clearing Documentation
(or any document forming part of the CDS Clearing Documentation) or provisions thereof, are to
those statutes, statutory instruments, the CDS Clearing Documentation (or any document forming
part of the CDS Clearing Documentation) or provisions thereof as amended, modified or replaced
from time to time.

2

Final version

3

CLEARING MEMBERSHIP

3.1

The CDS FCM Clearing Member is hereby admitted as a clearing member of the CDS Clearing
Service on the terms set out in this Agreement. The CDS FCM Clearing Member shall be eligible to
clear all categories of Original Transactions contemplated under the CDS Clearing Service from time
to time, subject in each case to Applicable Law and meeting any additional requirements specified
in the Procedures from time to time.

3.2

The CDS FCM Clearing Member warrants that the information supplied to LCH SA for the purposes
of determining whether it has satisfied the conditions for admission, as set out in Title II
(Membership) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book and Section 1 of the Procedures (Membership), was
when provided and is at the date of this Agreement true and accurate in all material respects.

3.3

The Parties undertake to comply at all times with this Agreement and the CDS Clearing
Documentation, as amended from time to time.

3.4

LCH SA and the CDS FCM Clearing Member each represent to the other that, as at the date of this
Agreement, and at all times prior to the termination of this Agreement:
3.4.1

it is duly incorporated or otherwise organised and validly existing under the laws of its
jurisdiction of incorporation;

3.4.2

it has the power and authority to enter into this Agreement and has taken all necessary
corporate actions to authorise the execution of this Agreement;

3.4.3

to the extent it is required under Applicable Law to be authorised, licensed or approved in
relation to activities undertaken by it, that all required governmental and/or regulatory
and other consents with respect to this Agreement, have been obtained and are in full
force and effect and that any or all conditions of any such consents have been and are
complied with;

3.4.4

it has full knowledge and understanding of the provisions of the CDS Clearing
Documentation and shall abide by its obligations under the CDS Clearing Documentation;

3.4.5

execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement do not violate or conflict with any
law applicable to it, any provision of its constitutional documents, any order or judgment
of any court or other agency of government applicable to it or any of its assets or any
contractual restriction binding on or affecting it or any of its assets;

3.4.6

its obligations under this Agreement constitute its legal, valid and binding obligations,
enforceable in accordance with their respective terms (subject to applicable bankruptcy,
reorganisation, insolvency, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors’ rights generally
and subject, as to enforceability, to equitable principles of general application (regardless
of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding in equity or at law);

3.4.7

no Event of Default or LCH Default, as applicable, with respect to it has occurred and is
continuing and no Event of Default or LCH Default, as applicable, would occur as a result of
its entering into or performing its obligations under this Agreement; and

3

Final version

3.4.8

there is not pending or, to its knowledge, threatened against it, any action, suit or
proceeding at law or in equity or before any court, tribunal, governmental body, agency or
official or any arbitrator that is likely to affect the legality, validity or enforceability against
it of this Agreement or its ability to perform its obligations under this Agreement.

3.5

The Parties agree that the maximum amount of any fine that LCH SA can impose on the CDS FCM
Clearing Member, pursuant to Paragraph 8.3 of Section 8 of the Procedures (Disciplinary
Proceedings), is as set out in the fine grid at Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

4

FEES, COSTS AND PAYMENT TERMS

4.1

In consideration of being granted membership of the CDS Clearing Service, the CDS FCM Clearing
Member shall pay LCH SA fees in accordance with Section 1.2.6 (Fees) of the CDS Clearing Rule
Book.

4.2

All fees shall be payable by the CDS FCM Clearing Member to LCH SA, in Euro, on a monthly basis in
accordance with Section 4.5.

4.3

The CDS FCM Clearing Member shall issue a Power of Attorney in favour of LCH SA to allow the
debiting or crediting of the TARGET2 Account (or the relevant cash account of its TARGET2 Payment
Agent), which is used to satisfy Collateral Calls made by LCH SA using its LCH House TARGET2
Account in accordance with Section 3 of the Procedures, for the purposes of fee payments
pursuant to Section 4.1.

4.4

LCH SA may index or adjust the fees published on the Website from time to time at its discretion.
LCH SA shall give the CDS FCM Clearing Member no less than thirty (30) calendar days’ prior notice
of any such change.

4.5

On the date falling ten (10) Business Days after the end of each calendar month, LCH SA shall debit
any due and payable fees (the “Fee Balance”) from the relevant CDS FCM Clearing Member’s
TARGET2 Account (or the relevant cash account of its TARGET2 Payment Agent) using its Power of
Attorney. On or before the fifth Business Day after the end of each calendar month, LCH SA shall
issue an invoice to the CDS FCM Clearing Member detailing the Fee Balance to be debited pursuant
to this Section 4.5 (the “Fee Notice”).

4.6

In circumstances where LCH SA is not able to debit the Fee Balance from the relevant CDS FCM
Clearing Member’s TARGET2 Account (or the relevant cash account of its TARGET2 Payment Agent)
using its Power of Attorney, the CDS FCM Clearing Member shall pay the Fee Balance to LCH SA
within thirty (30) calendar days of receiving the Fee Notice from LCH SA and in such manner as
specified in the Fee Notice.

5

MARKET DATA, END OF DAY CONTRIBUTED PRICES AND MARKIT LCH SETTLEMENT
PRICES

5.1

Subject to Section 5.3, LCH SA may require the CDS FCM Clearing Member to provide it with
Market Data. The CDS FCM Clearing Member will satisfy its obligation to provide LCH SA with

4

Final version

Market Data by acting in accordance with the procedure set out in Section 5 (CDS Clearing
Operations) of the Procedures.

5.2

The CDS FCM Clearing Member hereby warrants that it has put in place such arrangements as are
necessary for it to provide LCH SA with Market Data in accordance with Section 5 (CDS Clearing
Operations) of the Procedures and will inform LCH SA of any termination or material change to
such agreement that will impede its fulfilment of obligations with respect to the provision of
Market Data.

5.3

LCH SA acknowledges that the CDS FCM Clearing Member shall not be obliged to provide Market
Data which it is restricted from disclosing by law or regulation or as a result of agreements with
third parties which predate the date of this Agreement. In the absence of any notification at the
date of this Agreement by the CDS FCM Clearing Member, LCH SA shall be entitled to assume no
such third party agreements exist.

5.4

In respect of any Market Data provided to LCH SA in accordance with this Agreement and the CDS
Clearing Documentation:
5.4.1

the CDS FCM Clearing Member will retain all ownership and intellectual property rights or
other rights in respect of that Market Data;

5.4.2

LCH SA will keep that Market Data securely and properly protected against theft, damage,
loss and unauthorised access;

5.4.3

LCH SA will treat the CDS FCM Clearing Member’s Market Data as strictly confidential and
shall not display, disclose, distribute, identify or otherwise make it available to any person
other than to:

5.4.4

5.5

(i)

a third party data aggregator that is responsible for compiling the End of Day
Contributed Prices in accordance with the CDS Clearing Documentation (a “Third
Party Data Aggregator”); or

(ii)

the CDS FCM Clearing Member that has provided it;

LCH SA may only use the Market Data to aggregate it, or permit a Third Party Data
Aggregator to aggregate it, with the Market Data received from all other Clearing
Members for the purpose of creating the End of Day Contributed Prices for the CDS
Clearing Service and LCH SA will not use the Market Data received from the CDS FCM
Clearing Member for any other purpose.

LCH SA may only use any data aggregated from the Market Data, including the End of Day
Contributed Prices (the “Aggregated Data”):
5.5.1

for the purpose of the CDS Clearing Service, for clearing and settlement, including:
(i)

to calculate the Margin Requirements, Variation Margin Requirements or
Contribution Requirement of each Clearing Member;

(ii)

to calculate Markit LCH Settlement Prices;

5

Final version

5.5.2

(iii)

to value Cleared Transactions; and

(iv)

to distribute Markit LCH Settlement Prices and provide valuation reporting to each
Clearing Member; and

for the purpose of responding to:
(i)

ad hoc queries from Clearing Members and industry bodies (but not systematic,
regular distribution) relating to the CDS Clearing Service; and

(ii)

surveys conducted by relevant international organisations (such as IOSCO) relating
to the CDS Clearing Service.

provided that where the responses to queries or surveys pursuant to this Section 5.5.2 are
to include the Markit LCH Settlement Prices, this data may be communicated only with the
prior consent of the Third Party Data Aggregator, such consent not to be unreasonably
withheld.

5.6

LCH SA shall not use or share any Aggregated Data with third parties other than a Third Party Data
Aggregator (whether for fees or otherwise), save with the written prior consent or at the written
proposal of at least 50% of Clearing Members by reference to the volume of Open Positions held in
the Clearing Members’ House Margin Accounts.

5.7

LCH SA hereby undertakes that it has full rights and authority to provide Markit LCH Settlement
Prices to the CDS FCM Clearing Member and to allow the CDS FCM Clearing Member to use and/or
disclose the Markit LCH Settlement Prices for the purposes set out in Section 4.2.7 (Markit LCH
Settlement Price) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book.

5.8

The CDS FCM Clearing Member acknowledges and agrees that any Third Party Data Aggregator
shall be an intended third party beneficiary of Section 4.2.7 (Markit LCH Settlement Price) of the
CDS Clearing Rule Book.

5.9

Nothing in Section 5.7 shall prevent the CDS FCM Clearing Member from using the Markit LCH
Settlement Prices (and any other Aggregated Data provided to it) for any purpose where it is
permitted to do so by the relevant Third Party Data Aggregator or any other third party with the
requisite authority.

5.10

Where LCH SA makes Market Data available to a Third Party Data Aggregator, LCH SA shall procure
that the Third Party Data Aggregator:
5.10.1

acknowledges, and agrees to, the CDS FCM Clearing Member rights as set out in Section
5.4.1;

5.10.2

maintains protections in order to ensure that Market Data is securely and properly
protected against theft, damage, loss and unauthorised access;

5.10.3

does not display, disclose, distribute, identify or otherwise make the Market Data
available, other than in connection with the Third Party Data Aggregator’s permitted use of
End of Day Contributed Prices;

6

Final version

5.10.4

5.11

5.12

consents to the CDS FCM Clearing Member using the Markit LCH Settlement Prices for the
purposes set out in Section 5.7 above.

Nothing in this Section 5 or Section 9 prevents LCH SA from:
5.11.1

using or disclosing Market Data, Markit LCH Settlement Prices or Aggregated Data where it
is required to do so by Applicable Law or where required or formally requested to do so
pursuant to an order of a competent court or by a Regulatory Body; or

5.11.2

using (but not displaying, disclosing or identifying) Market Data, Markit LCH Settlement
Prices or Aggregated Data (i) upon the advice of the Risk Committee and (ii) in accordance
with the terms of the licence granted to LCH SA by the Third Party Data Aggregator.

Nothing in this Section 5 or Section 9 prevents the CDS FCM Clearing Member from using or
disclosing Markit LCH Settlement Prices, or other Aggregated Data provided to it, for whatsoever
purpose where such Markit LCH Settlement Prices, or other Aggregated Data, as the case may be,
are:
5.12.1

made available to the public by either LCH SA or a Third Party Data Aggregator, by virtue
of Applicable Law, the order of a Regulatory Body or otherwise; or

5.12.2

received by the CDS FCM Clearing Member other than as a result of a breach of any
agreement entered into between LCH SA and the CDS FCM Clearing Member (including
this Agreement).

5.13

Amendments to this Section 5 will become effective if LCH SA obtains the written prior consent of,
or receives a written proposal from, at least 50% of Clearing Members by reference to the volume
of Open Positions held in the Clearing Members’ House Margin Accounts.

6

LANGUAGE

6.1

This Agreement and the CDS Clearing Documentation shall be drawn up and issued in English,
provided that the CDS Clearing Rule Book shall be drawn up and issued in French for the purpose
of its approval by the AMF. Different language versions or translations of this Agreement and/or
the CDS Clearing Documentation may also be issued for information purposes.

6.2

Subject to Article 1.1.3.8 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book, in the event of inconsistency between
different language versions or translations of this Agreement or the CDS Clearing Documentation,
the English language version shall prevail.

6.3

General communications of LCH SA as well as all applications, filings, correspondence with, and
submissions to LCH SA by the CDS FCM Clearing Member may be in either English or in French,
unless expressly agreed otherwise by LCH SA. Upon the request of the CDS FCM Clearing Member,
any communications issued by LCH SA in French will also be provided in English.

6.4

The Persons nominated and notified to LCH SA, pursuant to Article 2.2.1.1(xii) of the CDS Clearing
Rule Book, as being responsible for the clearing operations of the CDS FCM Clearing Member and
authorised to act on behalf of the CDS FCM Clearing Member in respect of all transactions with or

7

Final version

involving LCH SA under the CDS Clearing Documentation, shall be either English or Frenchspeaking, unless expressly agreed otherwise by LCH SA.

7

TERM AND TERMINATION

7.1

This Agreement has been entered into for an indefinite period of time and takes effect on
notification by LCH SA of its acceptance of the CDS FCM Clearing Member’s application for
membership of the CDS Clearing Service and the fulfilment of all conditions precedent imposed by
LCH SA on the CDS FCM Clearing Member.

7.2

This Agreement shall terminate on the date that termination of the CDS FCM Clearing Member’s
membership is deemed effective in accordance with the CDS Clearing Rule Book.

7.3

The termination of this Agreement is without prejudice to accrued rights and obligations of the
CDS FCM Clearing Member under the CDS Clearing Documentation or arising from Cleared
Transactions entered into prior to such termination and settlement of all amounts due and payable
to, or by, the CDS FCM Clearing Member from, or to, LCH SA (as the case may be) shall be dealt
with in accordance with the CDS Clearing Documentation.

7.4

Any termination of this Agreement shall be co-ordinated with termination of any agreement
providing technical access to LCH SA for the purpose of the CDS Clearing Service provided by LCH
SA in accordance with the CDS Clearing Documentation.

8

AMENDMENTS

8.1

Subject to Section 5.13, LCH SA shall be permitted to amend this Agreement, as necessary, to
comply with a change in Applicable Law or the CDS Clearing Documentation, as soon as such
change takes effect, or in accordance with the procedure described in Section 1.2.2 (Modification)
of the CDS Clearing Rule Book.

8.2

LCH SA shall be permitted to amend Schedule 3 to this Agreement from time to time following
consultation with the Risk Committee.

8.3

The terms of this Agreement (other than the tax representations set out in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement and the tax forms set out in Schedule 2 to this Agreement) must at all times be
materially equivalent to the terms included in the CDS Admission Agreement that LCH SA has
entered into with each other Clearing Member, admitted on the same basis, in relation to the CDS
Clearing Service.

9

CONFIDENTIALITY

9.1

Each Party (“Recipient”) undertakes to the other Party (each, a “Disclosing Party”) to treat as
confidential all the information and/or documents, in any form whatsoever, obtained:
9.1.1

in performing this Agreement;

8

Final version

9.1.2

participating in any Clearing Member or LCH SA committees which may be established by
LCH SA from time to time;

9.1.3

from the Disclosing Party either directly or from any other person which concerns the
business, operations, customers or users of the Disclosing Party including any data and/or
electronic data files,

whether or not such items are associated with a notice of confidentiality (the “Confidential
Information”).

9.2

The Recipient may only use and disclose the Confidential Information for the purposes of, and in
accordance with, this Agreement and the CDS Clearing Documentation (the "Permitted Purpose").

9.3

The Recipient may only provide its employees, directors, subcontractors and professional advisers
(together with their respective employees, directors or any other representatives, subcontractors
and professional advisers (“Permitted Users”)) with access to the Confidential Information on a
strict “need-to-know” basis. The Recipient shall ensure that each of its Permitted Users is bound to
hold all Confidential Information in confidence to the standard required under this Agreement.
Where a Permitted User is not an employee or director of the Recipient (and is not under a
professional duty to protect confidentiality) the Recipient shall ensure that the Permitted User
shall, prior to receiving the Confidential Information, enter into a written confidentiality
undertaking with the Recipient on substantially equivalent terms to this Agreement, a copy of
which shall be provided to the Disclosing Party upon request.

9.4

In consideration of being given some information or having it made available, the Recipient agrees
it shall treat as strictly confidential and shall not disclose or allow to be disclosed to any person:
9.4.1

the Confidential Information;

9.4.2

the fact it has received any Confidential Information;

9.4.3

the existence of any discussions or negotiations between the Parties in this matter; or

9.4.4

details of the Permitted Purpose and any of the proposals, terms, conditions, facts or other
matters relating to any of the foregoing,
unless and to the extent it is authorised to do so pursuant to this Section 9.

9.5

The Parties acknowledge that property in the Confidential Information shall not pass to the
Recipient, and the property of the media on which it is conveyed shall not pass to the Recipient.

9.6

This Section 9 does not apply to any information which:
9.6.1

is in or subsequently enters the public domain other than as a result of a breach of this
Section 9; or

9.6.2

has been or is subsequently received by the Recipient from a third party and the Recipient
is under no confidentiality obligation in respect of that information other than under this
Agreement; or

9

Final version

9.6.3

has been or is subsequently independently developed by the Recipient without use of the
Disclosing Party’s Confidential Information; or

9.6.4

the Disclosing Party has agreed in writing may be disclosed.

9.7

The CDS FCM Clearing Member agrees to establish and adhere to adequate procedures (including,
without limitation, the establishment of appropriate information barriers) and take all steps to
ensure that any Permitted User to whom Confidential Information has been disclosed shall not use
any part or all of that Confidential Information for any purpose outside the scope of the Permitted
Purpose.

9.8

Each Permitted User may disclose Confidential Information (or, where the Permitted User is an
individual, his or her employer) and give the Disclosing Party prompt advance written notice of the
disclosure in accordance with Section 1.2.12 (Confidentiality) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book.

9.9

Notwithstanding the foregoing, either Party may, in their commercial activities, publicly refer to the
name of the CDS FCM Clearing Member and its membership to LCH SA, and LCH SA may (without
identifying the CDS FCM Clearing Member) use figures as to the CDS FCM Clearing Member’s
activity in the compilation of statistics for publication, and for similar purposes provided that the
identity of the CDS FCM Clearing Member is not attributable.

9.10

The provisions of this Section 9 shall survive any termination of this Agreement but shall expire on
the third anniversary of the date the Confidential Information was first provided to the Recipient,
without prejudice to confidentiality obligations under any Applicable Law which would prevent the
Recipient from disclosing or using the Confidential Material other than pursuant to and in
accordance with this Section 9.

9.11

Upon request by the Disclosing Party, the Recipient shall, as far as practicably possible, promptly
return to the Disclosing Party, or destroy (at its discretion), the Confidential Information and all
copies thereof in the possession or control of the Recipient, and shall certify in writing that the
Permitted User has not retained any of the Confidential Information, except to the extent that the
Confidential Information forms part of:
9.11.1

the permanent records of the Recipient which it is bound by applicable legal or regulatory
requirement or any compliance policy applicable to it to preserve; or

9.11.2

any electronic records which are customarily backed up in the normal course of the
Recipient’s business,

in which event the Recipient may retain the Confidential Information in strictest confidence in
accordance with the provisions of this Section 9.

9.12

Where the CDS FCM Clearing Member ceases to participate in any Clearing Member or LCH SA
committee as may be established by LCH SA from time to time, the CDS FCM Clearing Member
shall, to the extent reasonably practicable to do so, promptly:
9.12.1

return to LCH SA by a secure method of transportation all or any part of the Confidential
Information; or

10

Final version

9.12.2

destroy such information and shall certify to LCH SA in writing that it has done so,

(at its discretion), provided that the CDS FCM Clearing Member is permitted to retain a copy to the
extent that the Confidential Information forms part of the CDS FCM Clearing Member’s permanent
records which it is bound by applicable legal or regulatory requirement or any compliance policy
applicable to it to preserve.

9.13

Without affecting any other rights or remedies that each Party may have, each Party acknowledges
that the other may be irrevocably harmed by any breach of the terms of this Section 9 and that
damages alone may not necessarily be an adequate remedy. Accordingly, each Party will be
entitled to the remedies of injunction, specific performance and other equitable relief, or any
combination of these remedies, for any threatened or actual breach of the terms of this Section 9,
and no proof of special damages will be necessary to enforce this Agreement.

9.14

The provisions of this Section 9 shall not restrict or otherwise affect the rights of LCH SA to disclose
Confidential Information pursuant to and in accordance with Section 1.2.12 (Confidentiality) of the
CDS Clearing Rule Book. By entering into this Agreement, the CDS FCM Clearing Member expressly
consents to the disclosure of information by LCH SA pursuant to and in accordance with the CDS
Clearing Rule Book.

10

TAX

10.1

All payments made under or in connection with this Agreement shall be subject to the tax
provisions set out in Section 1.2.17 (Tax) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book.

10.2

LCH SA and the CDS FCM Clearing Member each make to the other, as at the date of this
Agreement and at all times prior to termination of this Agreement, the tax representations
specified as applicable to it in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

10.3

The tax representations described in Articles 1.2.10.3(xii) and 1.2.17.2 of the CDS Clearing Rule
Book are those tax representations set out in Schedule 1 to this Agreement and made pursuant to
Section 10.2, as applicable to the relevant Party.

10.4

LCH SA and the CDS FCM Clearing Member will deliver to each other the relevant forms,
documents or certificates specified as applicable to it in Schedule 2 to this Agreement in each case
by the date so specified or, if none is specified, as soon as reasonably practicable following
reasonable request from the other Party.

10.5

The forms, documents and certificates described at Articles 1.2.17.2, 1.2.17.5 and 1.2.17.6 of the
CDS Clearing Rule Book are those forms, documents and certificates specified in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and that are to be delivered pursuant to Section 10.4 above, as applicable to the
relevant Party.

11

Final version

11

HEDGING ISDA AGREEMENT

11.1

The Parties agree that:
11.1.1

all transactions entered into between them for the purpose of Hedging (each, a "Hedging
Transaction") will be governed by; and

11.1.2

any document, exchange of telexes, exchange of electronic messages on an electronic
messaging system or an exchange of emails confirming any such Hedging Transaction
(each, a "Confirmation") will supplement, form a part of and be subject to,

an agreement in the form of the ISDA 2002 Master Agreement as published by ISDA (the “Hedging
ISDA Agreement”) as if they had executed an agreement in such form (but without any Schedule
except for the elections and provisions set out in Section 11.2 below) on the Trade Date of the first
such Hedging Transaction between them, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in a
Confirmation.

11.2

11.3

12

The following elections and provisions will be incorporated into the Hedging ISDA Agreement:
11.2.1

English law will be the governing law;

11.2.2

the Automatic Early Termination provision of Section 6(a) of the Hedging ISDA Agreement
will not apply to LCH SA;

11.2.3

the Automatic Early Termination provision of Section 6(a) of the Hedging ISDA Agreement
[will]/[will not] apply to the CDS FCM Clearing Member;

11.2.4

for the purposes of Sections 3(e) and 3(f), as applicable, of the Hedging ISDA Agreement,
LCH SA and the CDS FCM Clearing Member each make the representations specified as
applicable to it in Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

11.2.5

for the purposes of Sections 4(a)(i) and 4(a)(ii) of the Hedging ISDA Agreement, LCH SA and
the CDS FCM Clearing Member each agree to deliver the tax forms, documents or
certificates specified as applicable to it in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

Each Party:
11.3.1

represents to the other Party, on the date of this Agreement and on each date on which it
enters into a Hedging Transaction, that it has full knowledge and understanding of the
provisions of the Hedging ISDA Agreement; and

11.3.2

agrees that it will perform its obligations under the Hedging ISDA Agreement in
accordance with the terms of such Hedging ISDA Agreement.

SEVERABILITY
If one or more provisions of this Agreement are deemed to be invalid or ruled to be invalid in
application of a statute or regulation or following a final decision of a competent court, the other
provisions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.

12

Final version

13

GENERAL

13.1

Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to constitute a partnership between the Parties, nor
constitute either Party the agent of the other Party for any purpose.

13.2

The rights, powers, remedies and privileges of each Party under this Agreement:
13.2.1

may be exercised as often as necessary;

13.2.2

are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, powers, remedies and privileges provided
by Applicable Law; and

13.2.3

may be waived in writing and specifically. Delay or failure in exercising any right is not a
waiver of that right.

13.3

The CDS Clearing Documentation constitutes the entire agreement and understanding of LCH SA
and the CDS FCM Clearing Member with respect to its subject matter. LCH SA and the CDS FCM
Clearing Member acknowledge that in entering into this Agreement it has not relied on any oral or
written representation, warranty or other assurance (except as provided for or referred to in the
CDS Clearing Documentation) and waives all rights and remedies which might otherwise be
available to it in respect thereof, except that nothing in the CDS Clearing Documentation will limit
or exclude any liability of a Party for fraud.

14

TRANSFER
Subject to the CDS Clearing Documentation, neither this Agreement nor any interest or obligation
in or under this Agreement may be transferred (whether by way of security or otherwise) by LCH
SA or the CDS FCM Clearing Member without the prior written consent of the other Party.

15

NOTICES

15.1

Any notice or communication to be made under or in connection with this Agreement shall be
made in writing to:

15.2

15.1.1

The CDS FCM Clearing Member at its registered office or branch (in case the activity is
located at the latter), as specified in its application for membership of the CDS Clearing
Service; and

15.1.2

LCH SA at its head office at 18, rue du Quatre Septembre, 75002 Paris, France.

LCH SA shall deliver any notice or communication which is required to be given to the CDS FCM
Clearing Member pursuant to the CDS Clearing Documentation by electronic transmission, email,
facsimile or telephone to the email address, facsimile number or telephone number specified by
the CDS FCM Clearing Member in its application for membership of the CDS Clearing Service. The
CDS FCM Clearing Member may, by notice to LCH SA, change the details at which notices or
communications are to be given to it.

13

Final version

15.3

The CDS FCM Clearing Member consents to LCH SA providing the address specified pursuant to
Section 1.6(ii) of the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol to any other Clearing Member of the CDS
Clearing Service solely for the purposes of sections 1.6(ii) and 9.3 of the CDS Dispute Resolution
Protocol.

16

DISPUTE RESOLUTION

16.1

For the avoidance of doubt, all Disputes shall be referred to and finally resolved by arbitration or by
litigation, as applicable, in accordance with the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol, subject to the
provisions of Sections 8 (Disciplinary Proceedings) and 9 (Complaint Resolution) of the Procedures.

16.2

The version of the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol in force as at the date of execution of this
Agreement is attached as Schedule 4 to this Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, the CDS
Dispute Resolution Protocol may be amended from time to time by LCH SA in accordance with
Section 1.2.2 (Modification) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book.

17

ELECTION OF DOMICILE / PROCESS AGENT

17.1

Without prejudice to the dispute resolution provisions set out in Section 16 above:
17.1.1

the CDS FCM Clearing Member irrevocably elects domicile with [] at [] [CDS FCM
Clearing Member: Please specify an entity and address in Paris] for the purposes of any
litigation in accordance with Section 6 of the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol;

17.1.2

if it is not incorporated in England or Wales, the CDS FCM Clearing Member either:
(i)

irrevocably appoints [] [CDS Clearing FCM Member: Please specify an entity in
England or enter “NOT APPLICABLE”] as its agent under the CDS Clearing
Documentation (including this Agreement) for service of process; or

(ii)

consents to having service effected upon it at [ ][CDS FCM Clearing Member:
Please specify an entity in England or enter “NOT APPLICABLE”], and agrees that
valid service at such branch shall constitute effective service on it,

in any ancillary proceedings before the English courts in connection with any arbitration
proceedings pursuant to the CDS Dispute Resolution Protocol; and
17.1.3

17.2

LCH SA irrevocably appoints LCH Group Limited at Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street,
London EC3N 1EA as its agent under the CDS Clearing Documentation (including this
Agreement) for service of process in any ancillary proceedings before the English courts in
connection with any arbitration proceedings pursuant to the CDS Dispute Resolution
Protocol.

The CDS FCM Clearing Member may, at its discretion, change its elected domicile in Paris for the
purposes of Section 17.1.1 above by giving notice of its new elected domicile in Paris to LCH SA in
accordance with Section 15 above. Any document served on the CDS FCM Clearing Member at its
former elected domicile (i) before such notification is received by the serving Party or (ii) 15

14

Final version

Business Days after such notification is received by the serving Party will be deemed validly served.
For the avoidance of doubt, any document served on the CDS FCM Clearing Member at its new
elected domicile in Paris will be deemed validly served as from the date of the relevant notification
sent by the CDS FCM Clearing Member.

17.3

If any person appointed as process agent under this Section 17 is unable for any reason to so act,
the appointing Party must immediately give notice of this to the other Party in accordance with
Section 15 above, and must immediately (and in any event within 7 days of the event taking place)
appoint a substitute process agent, in accordance with sub-section 17.1.2(i) or 17.1.3 as applicable,
or, in the case of the CDS FCM Clearing Member, an applicable branch located in England or Wales
at which it consents to have service effected upon it, in accordance with sub-section 17.1.2(ii).

17.4

If, where applicable, the branch specified under this Section 17 ceases to be able to act in such
capacity or no longer has an address in England or Wales, the CDS FCM Clearing Member must
immediately give notice of this to LCH SA in accordance with Section 15 above, and must
immediately (and in any event within 2 days of the event taking place) select a substitute branch at
which it consents to have service effected upon it, in accordance with sub-section 17.1.2(ii), or a
process agent, in accordance with sub-section 17.1.2(i).

17.5

Each Party agrees that: (i) service shall be deemed completed on delivery to the relevant process
agent appointed under this Section 17; and (ii) failure by such process agent to notify such Party of
any process, or failure by such Party to receive such notification, will not invalidate the relevant
proceedings.

17.6

The CDS FCM Clearing Member agrees that, where applicable: (i) service shall be deemed
completed on delivery to the branch appointed under this Section 17; and (ii) failure by such
branch to notify the CDS FCM Clearing Member of any process, or failure by the CDS FCM Clearing
Member to receive such notification will not invalidate the relevant proceedings.

17.7

This Section 17 does not affect any other method of service allowed by law.

18

GOVERNING LAW

For the avoidance of doubt, the governing law applicable to this Agreement and any non-contractual
obligations arising out of, relating to or having any connection with this Agreement shall be as set out in
Section 1.2.14 (Governing Law) of the CDS Clearing Rule Book.

15

Final version

SCHEDULE 1
TAX REPRESENTATIONS
Part 1 – Representations made by LCH SA
For the purposes of Sections 10 and 11 of this Agreement, LCH SA makes the following representation(s):
Payee Tax Representation(s)
(i)

[]

Payer Tax Representation(s)
(ii)

[]

Part 2 – Representations made by the CDS FCM Clearing Member
For the purposes of Sections 10 and 11 of this Agreement, the CDS FCM Clearing Member makes the
following representation(s):
Payee Tax Representation(s)
(i)

[]

Payer Tax Representation(s)
(ii)

[]

16

Final version

SCHEDULE 2
TAX FORMS TO BE DELIVERED
Part 1 – Tax forms to be provided by LCH SA
For the purposes of Sections 10 and 11 of this Agreement, LCH SA agrees to deliver the following
document(s) in each case by the date specified:
Form/Document/Certificate

Date by which to be
delivered

Any form or document accurately completed and in a manner
reasonably satisfactory to the CDS FCM Clearing Member that may
be required or reasonably requested in order to allow the CDS FCM
Clearing Member to make a payment without any deduction or
withholding for or on account of any Tax or with deduction or
withholding at a reduced rate, including, without limitation, an
executed United States Internal Revenue Service Form W-9 or Form
W-8BEN and/or W-8ECI (or any successor thereto).

Promptly upon reasonable
demand by the CDS FCM
Clearing Member.

[]

[]

Part 2 – Tax forms to be provided by the CDS FCM Clearing Member
For the purposes of Sections 10 and 11 of this Agreement, the CDS FCM Clearing Member agrees to deliver
the following document(s) in each case by the date specified:
Form/Document/Certificate

Date by which to be
delivered

Any form or document accurately completed and in a manner
reasonably satisfactory to LCH SA that may be required or reasonably
requested in order to allow LCH SA to make a payment without any
deduction or withholding for or on account of any Tax or with
deduction or withholding at a reduced rate, including, without
limitation, an executed United States Internal Revenue Service Form
W-9 or Form W-8BEN and/or W-8ECI (or any successor thereto).

Promptly upon reasonable
demand by LCH SA.

[]

[]

17

Final version

SCHEDULE 3
FINE GRID
Breach

Fine (EUR)

Failure to provide a complete price submission file
on a Clearing Day as part of the price submission
procedure set out in Section 5 of the Procedures.

10,000

18

Final version

SCHEDULE 4
CDS DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROTOCOL

[VERSION IN FORCE AS AT THE DATE OF EXECUTION OF THE AGREEMENT TO BE INSERTED]

19

Final version

THIS AGREEMENT has been duly signed in duplicate in __________________ (place) on

________________ (date),

By
LCH SA
Name:
Title:

By
[CDS FCM Clearing Member]
Name:
Title:

20

access-agreement-legal-fmwk-15-february-2013.docx

EXHIBIT P-3

AGREEMENT GOVERNING TECHNICAL ACCESS TO LCH SA
CLEARING SOLUTIONS
BETWEEN
BANQUE CENTRALE DE COMPENSATION
AND
...............................................................
...............................................................

1

LCH SA

Users Initials

access-agreement-legal-fmwk-15-february-2013.docx

The undersigned:
LA BANQUE CENTRALE DE COMPENSATION (BCC), trading as LCH SA, a company incorporated under the laws of
France, having its registered office at 18 Rue du Quatre Septembre, 75002 - Paris, France, registered in the
Commercial and Companies registry of Paris under the number B 692 032 485, represented by Mr. Jean-Marie
BOUDET, duly authorised (LCH SA);
and

…………………………..........................................,
a [……………………………………………………………] (limited) company incorporated under the

laws of [………………………………………..…..………],

having its registered office at ………………………….,
………………………….,
………………………….,
registered on the [………………………….] Companies Register / Chamber of Commerce under
the number [………………………….……..],

duly represented by its director(s),
M.. [………………………….………………..]

(and M…………….…………. ………………..),
hereinafter referred to as “User”;
Hereinafter jointly to be referred to as the “Parties” and individually referred to as the “Party”;

2

LCH SA

Users Initials

access-agreement-legal-fmwk-15-february-2013.docx

WHEREAS
LCH SA acts as a central counterparty for Clearing Members and provides clearing services for Transactions executed
on any Market cleared through any Clearing solution as may be specified in accordance with the provisions of this
Access Agreement.
The Clearing Member becomes a member of LCH SA by signing the Admission Agreement. The Clearing Rules, the
CDS Clearing Rules or the Operating Rules, the related Instructions, Notices and Specifications as amended from time
to time and available on LCH SA website (hereafter referred as “Documentation”) are applicable to the relationship
between the Clearing member and LCH SA.
The clearing services are described in details in the above Documentation.
The Clearing Members shall implement or have implemented the required technical environment to be connected to
the relevant Clearing Access Solution and therefore benefit from the Services as defined in Clause 1 below and
related Schedules. LCH SA also offers the Clearing Member the possibility to appoint a Clearing Access Solution Third
Party Provider to provide the Services. In this latter case, a direct contractual relationship will be set up between the
Clearing Member and the Clearing Access Solution Third Party Provider. The Clearing Member remains solely
responsible for the appointment of the Clearing Access Solution Third Party Provider.
Should the Clearing Member delegate a Clearing Access Solution Third Party Provider, this Access Agreement shall be
signed by both the Clearing Member and the Clearing Access Solution Third Party Provider.
This Access Agreement has been drawn up with the willingness to clarify both the Services provided and LCH SA’s
commitments and liabilities.
This Access Agreement is notably structured around the following main elements:
• Clearing Access Solutions description further to the implementation of the following: Group Member Access
and LCAP (Logical Centralised Access Point),
• integration of the Clearing Access Solution ordering process further to its global review (new standard
forms),
• Support Services description further to their internalisation within LCH SA in the first quarter 2008,
• integration of the data (list of files, messages and reports) to be accessed via the Clearing Access Solution,
The Clearing Member and the Clearing Access Solutions Third Party Provider (together referred as Users) wish to
benefit from the Services and LCH SA agrees to provide the same, and the Parties have agreed to enter into this
Access Agreement that sets out the terms and conditions of the provision of the Services to the Users.

3

LCH SA

Users Initials

access-agreement-legal-fmwk-15-february-2013.docx

TABLE OF CONTENT
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.

DEFINITIONS ...............................................................................................................................................................5
SCOPE OF THE ACCESS AGREEMENT ........................................................................................................................6
STRUCTURE OF THE DOCUMENTS ............................................................................................................................6
SERVICE PROVISION ...................................................................................................................................................7
CLEARING ACCESS SOLUTIONS ..................................................................................................................................8
USERS OBLIGATIONS ..................................................................................................................................................8
AVAILABILITY ............................................................................................................................................................10
HARDWARE, ACCESS EQUIPMENT AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS NETWORKS...................................................11
SECURITY AND BUSINESS CONTINUITY...................................................................................................................11
OWNERSHIP/INTELECTUAL PROPERTY AND LICENCES .........................................................................................11
WARRANTIES ............................................................................................................................................................13
INVOICING ................................................................................................................................................................13
LIABILITY....................................................................................................................................................................14
SUBCONTRACTORS...................................................................................................................................................16
FORCE MAJEURE.......................................................................................................................................................17
TERM AND TERMINATION .......................................................................................................................................17
REVERSIBILITY ...........................................................................................................................................................19
CONFIDENTIALITY.....................................................................................................................................................19
ASSIGNMENT ............................................................................................................................................................20
HEADINGS .................................................................................................................................................................20
GENERAL ...................................................................................................................................................................20
LANGUAGE ................................................................................................................................................................21
APPLICABLE LAW AND JURISDICTION .....................................................................................................................21

4

LCH SA

Users Initials

access-agreement-legal-fmwk-15-february-2013.docx

1. DEFINITIONS
Capitalised terms used in this Access Agreement shall have the meaning as set forth in this clause.
Access Agreement: means this Agreement including its Schedules and any amendments to this Access Agreement.
Admission Agreement: means the written agreement entered into between LCH SA and the Clearing Member.
Anomaly: means any defect that can be reproduced by the Clearing Member and that does not arise from noncompliant use of technical specifications and/or the Documentation or use which does not comply with technical
specifications and/or the Documentation, or any defect resulting from operating anomalies, or structural, functional,
organisational or conceptual problem encountered by the Users in using the Services.
Change Request: means any kind of changes requested by the Users to LCH SA regarding their Clearing Access
Solutions governed by this Agreement and specified in each relevant applicable Schedule.
Clearing Access Solutions: means the access provided by LCH SA and selected by the Users through a Request Form.
At the date of this Agreement the eCCW, Web OTC, LCAP and Network Services are the Clearing Access Solutions that
can be ordered by Users.
Clearing Access Solution Third Party Provider: means a third party provider (information software vendor,
information technology managed services (hosting, outsourcing)) duly appointed by the Clearing Member to
subscribe to the Services. The Clearing Access Solution Third Party Provider is responsible for setting up the accurate
network links between itself and the Clearing Member and is also responsible for the transmission of the relevant
files and/or messages generated by the Clearing Solution and related to the relevant Clearing Member activity.
Clearing Hours: means the clearing hours set forth in the Documentation.
Clearing Member: means any General Clearing Member, Individual Clearing Member and Clearer, as these terms are
defined in LCH SA applicable Documentation.
Clearing Solution: means LCH SA’s clearing system(s) used to provide clearing services to the Users.
Customer Technical Helpdesk: means LCH SA desk providing technical Support Services for the purpose of
centralising Clearing Members requests to resolve any Anomaly and/or manage any Change Request regarding the
Services.
Force Majeure Events : means, according to French case law, any extraordinary events independent of the Parties’
will that cannot be foreseen or avoided by them even with due diligence, being beyond their control preventing the
Parties to comply with their obligations undertaken in this Access Agreement (including without limitation disasters,
such as hurricane, earthquake, international conflicts, stroke of lighting and war).
Market means any Regulated Market, Multilateral Trading Facilities and Designated LCH SA Gateways benefiting
from clearing services provided by LCH SA.
Network Services means the network services as described in Schedule 2.
Request Forms means the LCH SA forms that the Users shall duly fill-in, sign and send back to LCH SA any time it
requires a new Clearing Access Solution or requires a modification/addition/suppression on its Clearing Access
Solution.
Schedules: means the schedules including any appendices thereto (hereafter “Appendices”) attached to this Access
Agreement that have been initialised by the Parties and which shall form an integral part of this Access Agreement.
5

LCH SA

Users Initials

access-agreement-legal-fmwk-15-february-2013.docx

Service(s): means the Clearing Access Solutions and/or Support Services enabling the Users to access the Clearing
Solution.
Services Hours: means the hours and dates or any period during which the Services are available as defined in
Schedule 3, Appendix 1.
Subcontractor: means a sub-contractor of LCH SA for the performance of LCH SA's obligations under this Access
Agreement.
Support Services: means the support services provided by the Customer Technical Helpdesk as detailed in Schedule
3.
Users: means any Clearing Member and Clearing Access Solution Third Party Provider.
2.

SCOPE OF THE ACCESS AGREEMENT

2.1. This Access Agreement sets out the terms and conditions under which LCH SA provides the Services to the
Users enabling them to have access to the Clearing Solution covering both test and production environments.
2.2. The Parties agree that, with regards to the test environment, LCH SA shall make its best endeavours to provide
the Users with similar service as for production environment.
2.3. However, the test environment has been designed to handle lower volumes of transactions and therefore the
Users are expressly requested not to perform any kind of tests (notably but not exclusively (performance
tests)) which could lead to the unavailability of the test environment. Consequently, any test performed on
the test environment, shall not be qualified, howsoever, as a benchmark for production environment.
2.4. Furthermore, the Users acknowledge and agree that any incident detected on the test environment shall be
processed with a lower priority than any incident occurring on the production environment. However LCH SA
reserves the right to prioritise differently any incidents.
2.5. This Access Agreement repeals and replaces any agreement previously entered into by the Users and related
to the provision of any similar Services.

3.

STRUCTURE OF THE DOCUMENTS

3.1. In this Agreement, Network and Network Services shall have the same meaning.
3.2. In this Agreement, Days shall be read as calendar days.
3.3. This Access Agreement encompasses the following Schedules:
Schedule 1 Security of the Clearing Access Solutions;
Schedule 2 Clearing Access Solutions description;
Schedule 3 LCH SA Support Services;

3.4. By signing this Access Agreement, the Users agree to comply with the terms herein including the Schedules,
and the related Documentation.
3.5. This Access Agreement and its Schedules shall form one integral document. Any modification of this Access
Agreement may be made pursuant to and in accordance with the conditions described in clause 21.3.

6

LCH SA

Users Initials

access-agreement-legal-fmwk-15-february-2013.docx

3.6. The most recent version of any constituent part of this Access Agreement shall always take priority over
former version of the same constituent part.
3.7. If there is a conflict or inconsistency between the provisions of this Access Agreement and the Schedules or
any other constituent part of this Access Agreement, the provisions of this Access Agreement shall prevail,
unless the relevant document provides otherwise.
3.8. An obligation by a Party in this Agreement to use “best endeavours” shall require the Party to take :
all necessary steps that a prudent person would take in the circumstances, acting in its own interests
and anxious to obtain the desired results; and
all positive steps and possible courses of action that would be reasonably apparent to such person
under the circumstances
in each case, with no requirement to take such action unless and until the relevant obligation
crystallises. Such obligation shall not be regarded as an “obligation de résultat”.
4.

SERVICE PROVISION

4.1. LCH SA shall (i) grant the Users access to the Clearing Solution through one or several Clearing Access
Solutions selected by the Users and (ii) supply the corresponding Services.
4.2. The Users hereby acknowledge that they can have access to the Clearing Solutions and receive the Services
only through one or several Clearing Access Solutions and to the extent that it complies with the obligations
set out in this Access Agreement.
4.3. The access to the Clearing Solution is subject to the completion of all installation and verification tests as
further described in Schedule 3.
4.4. If the Services include the provision by LCH SA of equipment specified in a Request Form, this equipment will
be installed and maintained by LCH SA. Should the installation require the removal or disconnect of any
existing equipment, the Users will permit, and obtain all necessary consents for, the removal or disconnect
and will give LCH SA or its Subcontractors all necessary assistance to enable such work to be carried out.
Neither LCH SA nor the Subcontractor shall be obligated to connect any equipment in the presence of any
hazardous condition or material. The Users will be responsible for the correction of any such condition or the
removal of such material, and LCH SA may, without suffering any penalty, delay the provision of the Services
until the Users have completed those actions.

4.5. LCH SA shall have the right, if necessary, to modify, enhance its Services and the related Documentation, as
described in the attached Schedules, or add new Services upon reasonable prior notice. LCH SA shall make its
best endeavours to comply with a six-month prior notice to inform and consult the Users regarding the actions
mentioned above. However, this prior notice cannot be less than three (3) months unless otherwise agreed. In
case of substantial modification of the Services and the related Documentation, LCH SA shall, prior to the
implementation of such modification, consult the Users and make its reasonable endeavours to take into
account their remarks. In addition, LCH SA shall communicate in writing to Users, for each such modification, a
specific implementation plan including a testing plan, a description of the launch strategy, documentation and
any such communication as LCH SA deems appropriate.
4.6. If any modification of the Services or the Documentation adversely affects the Users’ activity, the Users shall
be entitled to terminate this Access Agreement subject to and in accordance with the provisions of clause
16.3.2.

7

LCH SA

Users Initials

access-agreement-legal-fmwk-15-february-2013.docx

4.7. In the event that access to the Clearing Solution is denied to the Users due to LCH SA's act or omission, LCH SA
shall, as far as LCH SA is aware of such access denial, immediately inform the Users and make its best
endeavours to restore the access in the shortest delay and as soon as practicably possible.
4.8. LCH SA shall promptly notify the Users in case of delay in the performance of a substantial obligation set out in
the Access Agreement.
4.9. LCH SA's responsibility is limited to:
the integrity, confidentiality, authenticity and completeness of all types of instructions/messages
generated by the relevant Clearing Solution,
the transmission of all types of instructions/messages or files in the appropriate format to the Users
through the Clearing Access Solution.
4.10. Both Parties shall adopt good industry practice with regard to virus in relation to their own systems and shall
use at all times the current release of virus detection software.

5.

CLEARING ACCESS SOLUTIONS

5.1. Having assessed the respective Clearing Access Solutions capabilities, purpose, functionalities and operating
method, and found it suitable for their own needs for access to the Clearing Solution, the Users will request
LCH SA to supply the requested Clearing Access Solutions under the terms of Schedule 2.
5.2. The Users agree to inform LCH SA of their choice in accordance with the provisions set out in the appropriate
Request Form attached in Schedule 2. Furthermore, the Users agree to inform LCH SA, in the same manner,
for any change, move, addition, or deletion in their choice.
5.3. The Users shall ensure that they have the skills necessary to use the Clearing Access Solutions, in particular
that their staffs are capable of using the Clearing Access Solutions with the requisite degree of efficiency.
5.4. In all cases the Clearing Access Solutions shall be used by the Users under their sole control, direction and
responsibility.
5.5. With respect to the use of any Clearing Access Solution, the Users accept that it is not advisable to connect the
Clearing Access Solutions to other networks or to share files or data with other networks or applications. For
the avoidance of doubt, LCH SA would not suffer any liability regarding any adverse effect resulting from the
non respect of the above provision.
5.6. Pursuant to and in accordance with clause 4.5 of this Agreement and with respect to any new Clearing Access
Solution, LCH SA shall consult the Users regarding (i) the selection criteria to be commonly agreed and (ii) the
description of the expected new Clearing Access Solution encompassing the associated services, if any.
6.

USERS OBLIGATIONS

6.1. The Users acknowledge having received from LCH SA sufficient information, advice and Documentation that
enabled them to make their choice with respect to the type and number of Clearing Access Solutions to be set
up. This discretionary choice being made on the basis of their own needs, LCH SA shall not be held liable for
the choices made by the Users with respect to the Clearing Access Solutions. Pursuant to and in accordance
with Clause 4.5 above, the Users are aware that LCH SA may modify from time to time the Documentation
and/or add any additional documents; such documents being enforceable between the Parties.
8

LCH SA

Users Initials

access-agreement-legal-fmwk-15-february-2013.docx

6.2. The Users shall comply with any relevant provision of any relevant Schedule and associated Appendices,
Documentation, and with the provisions set out in the relevant Request Form, and satisfy all requirements
applicable to their selected Clearing Access Solution. Notwithstanding any other obligations under this Access
Agreement, the Users shall ensure that environmental conditions at each Users’ premises as communicated by
LCH SA or its Subcontractors are maintained for any equipment provided by LCH SA (such as routers, cables,
connectors…) and that the exterior surfaces are kept clean and in good working conditions. Subject to
applicable law, any individual engaged in the performance of the Services shall comply with any relevant
company procedure and/or policy.
6.3. The Users shall be liable for the implementation and continuous operation of the data storage link to their
Clearing Access Solutions.
6.4. The Users shall be solely responsible for the proper use and application within their organisation of the
Services, as described in Schedule 2. The Users shall ensure that the Services are used in a competent and
conscientious manner by their duly skilled personnel, in accordance with the Access Agreement and the
Documentation.
6.5. The Users shall render such assistance, close and continuous collaboration and provide all data and
information as LCH SA deems reasonably necessary for the performance of the Services. In particular, the
Users shall grant LCH SA and/or any of its Subcontractors, with the right to access their premises at any
reasonable time pursuant to and in accordance with Schedules 2 and 3. LCH SA shall comply with the Users
security, health and safety requirements that shall be communicated to LCH SA by the Users. When, at the
request of the Users, and under their sole liability the Clearing Access Solution has to be installed, on a non
Users’ premises, the Users commit to provide LCH SA, its Subcontractors with the right to access at any
reasonable time the non Users premises.
6.6. The Users shall provide to LCH SA or any Subcontractor in a timely manner, all information reasonably needed
to install and provide the Services. LCH SA will not be liable if it is unable to install or provide the Network
Services on a timely basis due to any delay or failure by the Users or any third party appointed by the User in
providing accurate information on a timely basis. LCH SA may charge the Users (i) an additional fee for each
instance the Users refuse to give LCH SA or its Subcontractors access to the Users premises after an
appointment has been made for installation work, or if the Users cause LCH SA to incur significant
unanticipated costs due to the Users’ delays or errors in the information provided; or (ii) cancellation charges
if, in LCH SA's reasonable discretion, the Users have implicitly cancelled the Request Form for granting access
to Clearing Access Solution by continually refusing to allow LCH SA or the Subcontractor to complete the
installation.

6.7. When this is necessary for the proper fulfilment of the Services as described in the Access Agreement, the
Users shall grant LCH SA, its Subcontractors with a right to access remotely the Clearing Access Solution.
6.8. The Users may neither use the Services for any purpose other than for which it is intended, and as exclusively
determined by this Access Agreement and the Documentation nor connect to another supplier network, nor
use hardware (or any data transmission facility to which the hardware is connected), not supplied by LCH SA
and/or its Subcontractors
In the event of a use of Services otherwise than as described above which results in materially adverse
consequences for any other users the Users accept irrevocably that LCH SA will reject any claim based on
damages resulting from any non compliance with the provisions set out in this clause and that LCH SA
reserves the right to disconnect immediately (or requires the immediate disconnection of) any equipment or
network connected in breach of this clause.

6.9. The right to use the Services is not transferable unless LCH SA has explicitly given its prior written consent.
9

LCH SA

Users Initials

access-agreement-legal-fmwk-15-february-2013.docx

6.10. The Users shall:
ensure that their installations comply with prevailing industry standards and is compatible with the
Clearing Access Solution chosen;
initiate all reasonable measures needed to guarantee the protection of their access codes from
unauthorised third parties;
ensure that the specifications of the Clearing Access Solution(s) selected are consistent with their needs;
6.11. The Users shall ensure that the characteristics of their hardware and software environment will not disturb or
interfere with any of the Services provided by LCH SA.
6.12. The Users shall comply with their obligations regarding security as described in clause 9 and any relevant
Schedules.
6.13. The Users shall implement a back up Clearing Access Solutions, according to their needs pursuant to and in
accordance with clause 9.3 of this Access Agreement.

7.

AVAILABILITY

7.1. LCH SA may interrupt the provision of the Services when any modifications or adjustments are made. LCH SA
shall make its best endeavours to comply with a 5-days prior notice and only interrupt the Services outside
Clearing Hours. However, under exceptional circumstances, (such as for instance the intervention to resolve
an Anomaly immediately in order to maintain or resume the provision of the Services), LCH SA may interrupt
the Services within a shorter prior notice and within the Clearing Hours.
7.2. LCH SA shall have the right to suspend the use of the Clearing Access Solution to the Clearing Solution, and
hence to the Services, in order to carry out maintenance work on equipment and/or the Software and/or the
infrastructure. However and unless exceptional circumstances require otherwise, any such suspension of the
access to the Clearing Solution due to maintenance work, shall take place outside the Clearing Hours and upon
reasonable prior notice.
7.3. To this extent, LCH SA will make its best endeavours to limit the periods during which the Services remain
unavailable.
7.4. In case of breakdown or unavailability of the Services attributable to network operators selected as
Subcontractors by LCH SA to provide Network Services as described in Schedule 2, LCH SA undertakes to make
its best endeavours to ensure that the network operators make their best endeavours to restore the Services
covered by this Access Agreement as quickly as possible being agreed between the Parties that LCH SA shall
not suffer any other liabilities than those set out in the agreement entered into between LCH SA and any
network operator as reproduced in clause 13 of this Access Agreement.

7.5. Should any Anomaly arise with respect to the provision of the Services, the procedure sets out in Schedule 3
shall be implemented.

10

LCH SA

Users Initials

access-agreement-legal-fmwk-15-february-2013.docx

8.

HARDWARE, ACCESS EQUIPMENT AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS NETWORKS

The Clearing Member, at its sole expense, shall be responsible for providing and maintaining, if relevant, any
hardware, facilities, telecommunication and Internet access, software, services and access equipment needed, and
not provided by LCH SA or its Subcontractors under this Access Agreement, in accordance with the specifications set
out in the Documentation.
9.

SECURITY AND BUSINESS CONTINUITY

9.1. LCH SA complies with the best security and business continuity practices commonly implemented by banking
and financial institutions from time to time.
9.2. LCH SA has implemented and shall maintain the necessary actions and policies in order to guarantee the
continuity and the security in its Services to Users at all times either on its primary site or back-up sites.
9.3. The Users shall ensure that they have in place at all times appropriate business continuity arrangements,
having regard to the nature of the Services. Business continuity arrangements shall include (i) the provision of
off-site continuity facilities at (a) separate location(s) from the main facilities of the Users and (ii) the
implementation of a resilient network infrastructure, in compliance with their business continuity needs in
order to enforce the system resiliency so as to allow them to continue benefiting from the Services and
guarantee business continuity.
9.4. Notwithstanding the above provision, the Users undertake to comply with any specific security and business
continuity requirements LCH SA may determine at any time. Such requirements may be as follows: restriction
of use of the Clearing Access Solution (only within the Users’ premises), communication of the Users security
policy related to Clearing Access Solutions or any components used to access the Clearing Solution, resiliency
of the Clearing Access Solution on the Users primary site and back up site, obligation to proceed to real switchover tests from the primary site to back-up site). The above list shall not be construed as an exhaustive list. If
need be such requirements will be attached to this Access Agreement in due time and a dedicated schedule
will be drawn up.
9.5. Moreover, when a Clearing Member delegates its access to the Clearing Solution to a Clearing Access Solution
Third Party Provider, LCH SA strongly recommends, and the Clearing Members expressly acknowledge that the
network connection, which might be set up by the Clearing Member to the Clearing Access Solution, complies
with minimum network security specifications as set out in Schedule 2.

10. OWNERSHIP/INTELECTUAL PROPERTY AND LICENCES

10.1. Copyright and all other intellectual property rights regarding all Documentation and other material made
available by LCH SA, including any preparatory material pertaining thereto, shall vest exclusively in LCH SA or
its licensors as the case may be.
10.2. Neither Party grants to the other the right to use its trademarks, trade name, service marks or any other
proprietary designations without the prior written consent of such Party.
10.3. The Users shall refrain from infringing the rights of LCH SA, whether directly or indirectly.
10.4. The Users may not remove or change any indications of copyright, trademarks, trade names or any other signs
of intellectual property rights from software, Documentation or other material.
11

LCH SA

Users Initials

access-agreement-legal-fmwk-15-february-2013.docx

10.5. Each Party retains ownership of the documents, data and information of any kind transmitted to the other
Party in connection with the performance of this Access Agreement and to which either Party may have
access.
10.6. All the component items of any software or updates, including studies, analyses, documentation, offers, test
suites and any other information and document given by LCH SA or any third party to the Users, including in
connection with Support Services (hereafter referred as “Component Items”), are and shall remain the sole
and exclusive property of the holder of the rights to such component items.
10.7. LCH SA warrants that it holds the necessary copyrights or licence to sub-licence if need be and authorisations
allowing it to grant the licence hereunder.
LCH SA shall indemnify the Users against claims by third parties in respect of any infringement of third party
intellectual property rights.
This undertaking is subject to the following express conditions:
that the Users have promptly notified LCH SA in writing of the notice of the claim, proceedings for
infringement or the announcement of such proceedings;
that the Users provide all information, documents, and reasonable assistance and:
o either permit LCH SA or LCH SA's licensor to control the defence, settlement, adjustment
or compromise of any such claim. The Users may appoint a counsel at their own expense
to assist them with respect to any such claim.
o or, if the Users refuse that LCH SA control the defence, the Users shall not take any
decision related to the strategy, the admission of any liability or other statement or enter
into any settlement or other agreement which would bind LCH SA without LCH SA’s prior
written approval, which shall not be unreasonably withheld.
If it is judicially established by a final court judgment or order that a claim is made correctly or in LCH SA's
reasonable opinion is likely to be made correctly, LCH SA will attempt, at its own choice and its own expense,
either:
to obtain the right for the Users to continue using the Component Items ;
to replace the Component Items by an equivalent application with the same functionality that is
not the subject of an action for infringement;
to modify the Component Items in such a way as to avoid the said infringement.
In the event of summary and temporary court decision preventing either LCH SA or Users from using any
Component Items, LCH SA shall use its best endeavours to implement a temporary work around solution until the
Court decision on the merits.
LCH SA shall have no obligation under this clause 10 to the extent any claim of infringement results from: (i) use of
the Component Items in combination with any other software, hardware, firmware, or product or service if the
infringement would not have occurred but for such combination; (ii) modification, alteration or change made to
the Component Items by any person or entity other than LCH SA; (iii) use of the Component Items for
purposes for which it was not specified in the Documentation; or (iv) use of other than the most recent release
or version of the Component Items .
The above provisions establish LCH SA’s sole liability and the Users’ exclusive remedy in relation to actions for
infringement arising from use of the Component Items.
12

LCH SA

Users Initials

access-agreement-legal-fmwk-15-february-2013.docx

11. WARRANTIES
11.1. Each Party represents and warrants to the other Party that:
it is, and shall remain, duly organised and validly existing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its
incorporation and has been in continuous existence since incorporation;
it has the right, power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute, deliver and
exercise its rights, and perform its obligations under this Access Agreement;
it has, and shall continue to have, the right, power and authority to enter into all the transactions
contemplated by this Access Agreement;
it has obtained and complied with all applicable regulations;
it holds all the authorisations, property rights and licence contracts:
o
o

for all the hardware, configurations, facilities, firmware, access equipment, and specific
software; and
for the content of legally protected databases.

11.2. The Users represent and warrant that they hold all the authorisations, property rights and licence contracts :
for all the hardware, configurations, facilities, firmware, access equipment, and specific software;
and
for the content of legally protected databases.
to which LCH SA, or its Subcontractors may need to have access to perform the Services in connection with
this Access Agreement.
11.3. LCH SA does not make any warranty or representation other than those formally expressed in this Access
Agreement and the Documentation and LCH SA expressly disclaims any and all other warranties, express or
implied including warranties against inherent defects and hazardous products. In particular LCH SA expressly
disclaims any implied warranty of fitness for a particular purpose.
12. INVOICING
12.1. Fees
12.1.1. LCH SA will charge the Users the fees specified in the Request Forms and/or in LCH SA Fee Grid available on
LCH SA web site. Upon sixty (60) Days written notice, LCH SA may increase the fees; such increase being
effective as of the expiry of the above notice unless otherwise specified. For the avoidance of doubt, any
increase shall apply regardless of the date on which Users subscribed or renewed the Services. Should the
User disagree with such increase, he may be entitled to terminate this Access Agreement pursuant to the
conditions set out in Clause 16.3.2 below.
12.1.2. All fees are in euros and exclusive of applicable taxes and other impositions, including without limitation,
value added tax and similar taxes that may be imposed by competent authority.

13

LCH SA

Users Initials

access-agreement-legal-fmwk-15-february-2013.docx

12.2. Invoicing and Payment
12.2.1. Regarding the Clearing Member: on the 10 th Business Day following the end of each month during which the
provision of the Services occurred, LCH SA directly debits the due and payable amounts from the relevant
account as for any cash payment obligation as described in the Documentation. Prior to such debits, the
Clearing Member receives an invoice detailing those amounts.
12.2.2. Regarding the Clearing Access Solution Third Party Provider, LCH SA will issue an invoice which shall be paid
within thirty (30) Days upon receipt of the invoice. If the Clearing Access Solution Third Party Provider fails
to pay the invoice, LCH SA shall be entitled to suspend the provision of the Services upon the expiry of a ten
(10) Days period from the date of a written notice requesting the payment of the fees.
12.2.3

Notwithstanding the provisions of Clause 12.2.2 above and if the Clearing Access Solutions Third Party
Provider duly appointed through a Request for Delegation Form by one or several Clearing Members fails to
pay the amounts due pursuant to the process detailed above, LCH SA reserves the right to debit directly the
full amount due by the delegated Clearing Access Solutions Third Party Provider from the account of one of
the delegating Clearing Member.

12.2.3. If the Users fail to pay any amount due within the timeframe described in Clauses 12.2.1 and 12.2.2, the
Users shall pay interest in relation to that amount, accruing daily from the due date to the date of actual
payment (both dates inclusive) at a rate equal to one and a half times the most recent refinancing rate of
the European Central Bank. LCH SA may assign its claim for payment to one or more third parties, in which
case the Users, in addition to the aggregate amount due, shall be liable for any legal and/or extra-legal
collection costs incurred.
12.2.4. Payment shall be made without offset or postponement on any grounds whatsoever, except to the extent
that an arbitration award or court decision has determined that the Users has a counterclaim eligible for
offset or valid grounds for postponement.
12.2.5. LCH SA shall neither have any obligation to reimburse any Users for any payment already made in the event
that the Users have not started their clearing activities or for any other reason whatsoever, nor shall there
be any such obligation to reimburse any payments made for the provision of Services after the termination
of this Access Agreement.

13. LIABILITY
13.1. Taking into account the special characteristics of LCH SA’s business and the nature of the Services, the Parties
expressly agree that LCH SA is subject to a best-endeavours obligation as regards to the performance of all the
obligations referred to in this Access Agreement. The Users are also under a best endeavours obligation.
13.2. LCH SA shall only be liable for direct losses or damages if it is evidenced that LCH SA or its Subcontractors have
breached any of their obligations under this Access Agreement or have acted with negligence.
Notwithstanding any other provisions hereunder, in no circumstances shall LCH SA be liable for the
reinstatement of data nor for indirect or consequential damages or loss which shall include inter alia loss of
profits, loss of opportunities or income, loss of sales, loss of image or commercial reputation, or (except as set
out in and subject to Clause 10.7 of this Access Agreement) third party's claims or actions.
Whenever data are lost due to a breakdown in the Network Services, LCH SA may, in cooperation with the
Users, make its best endeavours to set up a contingency procedure to deliver the lost data to its Users. The
Users undertake to fully collaborate and to dedicate as many duly skilled resources as necessary to implement
the contingency procedure
14

LCH SA

Users Initials

access-agreement-legal-fmwk-15-february-2013.docx

13.3. In the event of loss of or damage to tangible property caused by LCH SA’s or its Subcontractors negligent act or
omissions, LCH SA’s liability shall not exceed the amount of one million Euros (€1,000,000).
13.4. As far as the performance of the Network Services set out in Schedule 2 of this Access Agreement is
concerned, LCH SA’s total liability, howsoever such liability arises, whether in contract, tort (including, without
limitation, negligence) or otherwise, in respect of any claim or series of connected claims, which have become
final, is capped to the amount (excluding any applicable taxes) paid by each User during the period of twelve
(12) months prior to the occurrence of the event or series of connected events giving rise to a claim or series
of claims.
For the sake of clarity LCH SA undertakes to refund the relevant Users with all the sums received from the
Subcontractor without retaining any fee.
13.5. Except as set out in and subject to Clause 10.7, 13.3 and 13.4 of this Access Agreement or if LCH SA or its
Subcontractors act with fraud, wilful misconduct or gross negligence, LCH SA’S liability, whether in breach of
contract, misrepresentation or otherwise, towards all Users which have entered into this Access Agreement
shall be limited to an aggregate amount of five million Euros per calendar year for all claims made by one or
several Users which have become final during the relevant year.
This maximum amount applies to all final claims made by Users under this Access Agreement. A claim shall
become final:
(i) on the date of its receipt by LCH SA if LCH SA has not disputed it, neither as to its principle nor as to its
amount, within the time period provided for in Clause 23.5.; or
(ii) if LCH SA has disputed the claim, on the date on which LCH SA has been found liable either as a result of
the amicable settlement procedure provided for in Clauses 23.1 and 23.2 or by a final and enforceable
decision rendered by the French court or the arbitration centre which is competent pursuant to Clause 23.3
.
In the course of each calendar year, LCH SA shall pay the final claims, within a reasonable timeframe, up to an
amount of fifty thousand Euros per User. LCH SA shall postpone any complementary payment until the end of
the relevant calendar year at which time it shall determine the global amount of claims which became final
during that calendar year. LCH SA will deduct this amount from the global annual amount of 5 million Euros. If
the global annual amount of five million Euros has been partially used, LCH SA will pay prior to the 31 stof
March of the next calendar year and subject to the above conditions, in proportion to the Users’ damages, any
remaining amount to the Users having made such final claims.
13.6. LCH SA shall not be held liable for:
problems caused by the hardware, equipment, firmware and software used by the Users to gain access to
the Clearing Access Solution, unless such hardware and/or software is owned by and under the control
("sous la garde") of LCH SA;
the actions, omissions, Service interruptions, quality defects or delays caused by third parties such as
regulators, Clearing Access Solution Third Party Providers, or any other providers of services or
equipment;
anomalies occurring in the transmission facilities supplied to the Users or, broadly, on any equipment of
any nature whatsoever unless such deficiencies result from LCH SA's acts;
for any loss resulting from the Users non compliance with the security and business continuity
requirements set out in Clause 9.
for any loss resulting from the Users’ absence or deficiency of their back up Clearing Access Solution.
15

LCH SA

Users Initials

access-agreement-legal-fmwk-15-february-2013.docx

13.7. If the Users have contributed to the occurrence of the loss by their act or negligence, any loss or damages shall
be allocated between LCH SA and the Users in accordance with their respective contributions to such loss.
13.8. In case the Clearing Member delegates its access to the Clearing Solution to a Clearing Access Solution Third
Party Provider, the Clearing Member expressly renounces, for the Services subscribed through the Clearing
Access Solution Third Party Provider, to its rights to directly sue LCH SA in case of failure of the latter’s
obligations. Should this situation occur, only the Clearing Access Solution Third Party Provider may be entitled
to claim LCH SA for compensation.
In such situation, the Clearing Member acknowledges and agrees it has no recourse to LCH SA, save for
seeking reimbursement for any sums directly debited by LCH SA for the same Services under Clause 12.2.3.
13.9. LCH SA agrees to provide the Services at the premises of a non Clearing Member upon the Clearing Member’s
request, under the Clearing Member's sole liability. In that respect, the Clearing Member shall hold harmless
and indemnify LCH SA against any losses arising out or in connection with the provision of the Services at the
premises of a non Clearing Member. The Clearing Member shall procure that the non Clearing Member fully
complies with the requirements set out in this Access Agreement and shall be liable for any act or omission of
the non Clearing Member.
13.10. The Users shall only be held liable for direct losses or damages, including notably any losses or damages to
the hardware and other material and equipment under their control ("gardien") even those provided by LCH
SA, if it is evidenced that the Users have breached any of their obligations under this Access Agreement or has
acted with negligence.
Notwithstanding any other provisions hereunder, in no circumstances shall the Users be held liable for the
reinstatement of data nor for indirect or consequential damages or loss which shall include inter alia loss of
profits, loss of opportunities or income, loss of sales, loss of image or commercial reputation, or third party's
claims or actions.
13.11. Unless the Users act with wilful misconduct, fraud or gross negligence, the Users’ liability, whether in breach
of contract, misrepresentation or otherwise, towards LCH SA shall be limited to a global annual amount of
100 000 Euros for all claims made by LCH SA which have become final during the relevant calendar year.
This maximum amount applies to all final claims made by LCH SA under this Access Agreement. A claim shall
become final:
(i) on the date of its receipt by any User if the User has not disputed it, neither as to its principle nor as to
its amount, within the time period provided for in Clause 23.5; or
(ii) if the User has disputed the claim, on the date on which the User has been found liable either as a result
of the amicable settlement procedure provided for in Clauses 23.1 and 23.2 or by a final and enforceable
decision rendered by the French court or the arbitration centre which is competent pursuant to Clause 23.3.
13.12. The Parties shall effect and maintain at all times from the Effective Date as this term is defined in Clause 16
below , policies of insurance with a solvent insurance company in relation to their potential liabilities under or
in connection with this Access Agreement and the Services.
14. SUBCONTRACTORS
14.1. LCH SA shall be entitled to engage Subcontractors to perform certain Services.
14.2. The Clearing Member shall be informed with reasonable prior notice as soon as LCH SA designates such a
Subcontractor.
16

LCH SA

Users Initials

access-agreement-legal-fmwk-15-february-2013.docx

14.3. LCH SA remains fully liable for the performance of the Access Agreement even in case of use of Subcontractors
whatever the level of subcontracting without prejudice to the provisions of Clause 13.4.
15. FORCE MAJEURE
15.1. Neither party shall be held liable to the other Party for any delay or non-performance of its obligations under
this Access Agreement arising from any Force Majeure Event.
15.2. The affected Party shall promptly notify the other Party in writing of the cause of the delay or nonperformance and the likely duration of the delay or non-performance with all supporting documents and
evidences. The affected Party shall use its reasonable endeavours to limit the effect of that delay or nonperformance on the other Party. The performance of the affected Party's obligations, to the extent affected by
the cause, will be suspended during the period that the cause persists. If performance is not resumed within
90 days after that notice and the Parties shall have failed to resolve through the dispute resolution
mechanism, the other Party may terminate this Access Agreement immediately by written notice to the
affected Party subject to and in accordance with Clause 16.
15.3. During such period of ninety days, the Parties shall co-operate in view of resolving the interruption of Services.

16. TERM AND TERMINATION
16.1. DURATION
The Access Agreement shall enter into force on the date of signing by both Parties (the Effective Date) and shall
remain in force for an indefinite duration.
16.2. SUSPENSION
16.2.1. LCH SA may suspend the Services in the event that the Clearing Member's membership is suspended for any
reason whatsoever as stated in the Documentation. During such suspension, the Clearing Member shall
remain liable for payment of all fees due to LCH SA under this Access Agreement.
16.2.2. In the event of temporary suspension of clearing activities, of the services provided by the Clearing Access
Solution Third Party Provider, or temporary unavailability of the Clearing Access Solution, the Parties
expressly agree that this Access Agreement shall remain in effect. The Users agree to maintain the Clearing
Access Solutions in proper working conditions and to make timely payments of any amounts owed for the
provision of the Clearing Access Solutions and for the provision of the Services themselves unless LCH SA is
responsible for the temporary suspension.

16.3. TERMINATION
16.3.1. Either Party shall have the right to terminate this Access Agreement with immediate effect by registered
letter to the other Party, without prejudice to any rights and remedies:
if the other Party is unable to pay its debt or becomes insolvent or an order or application is made or a
resolution passed for the bankruptcy, administration, winding-up or dissolution of the other Party or to
17

LCH SA

Users Initials

access-agreement-legal-fmwk-15-february-2013.docx

a significant extent discontinues part or all of such of its activities that relate to the object of this
Access Agreement to the extent permitted by law;
if the other Party is in material breach of its obligations under this Access Agreement and if this
obligation is capable of remedy fails to remedy such breach within fourteen (14) days after receiving
written notice requiring it to do so;
in the event of Force Majeure in accordance with Clause 15.
if the Admission Agreement is terminated for any reason whatsoever.

16.3.2. Notwithstanding the above provisions, the Access Agreement may only be terminated in accordance with
the Documentation.
16.3.3. Notwithstanding Clause 16.3.1, the LCAP Clearing Access Solution and Network Services, ordered pursuant
to the terms of the relevant Request Form, shall run for a 12 months period starting, at the earlier, (i) from
the date on which the Services are operational (Operational Service Date) or (ii) from the date mentioned
on the first invoice issued by LCH SA following the implementation of the relevant Clearing Access Solution.
At the term of the initial 12 months period, the LCAP Clearing Access Solution and Network Services will
automatically renew for successive one month periods unless the Users decide to terminate them by giving
a 60 Days written notice.
In case of termination prior to the expiry of the Initial 12 months period, the Users shall owe LCH SA the fees
due up to the expiry of this initial 12 months period. In case of termination after the expiry of the 12 months
period, the Users shall owe LCH SA the fees due up to the expiry of the 60 Days notice period mentioned
above.
Unless otherwise specified, the above provisions are not applicable to the other Clearing Access Solutions,
being, at the date of this Access Agreement, eCCW, Web OTC, which can be terminated in writing at any
time. For the sake of clarity, the fees corresponding to the month during which the termination notice is
given will be fully invoiced without any prorata temporis.
16.3.4. Where this Access Agreement ceases to be in force by operation of law, it shall terminate with immediate
effect, without any requirement for notice of default and without prejudice to the right of the Parties to
claim compensation for any damages or losses.
16.4. CONSEQUENCES OF TERMINATION
16.4.1. Any termination of this Access Agreement for whatever reason shall not affect the accrued rights or
liabilities of either Party nor shall it affect the coming into force or continuation into force of any other of its
clauses or provisions which are expressly or by implication intended to come into force or continue in force
on or after termination of this Access Agreement including Clauses 11 "Warranties", 13 "Liability", and 18
"Confidentiality”.
16.4.2. Termination of the Access Agreement for whatever reason shall render all outstanding amounts due by the
Users under the Access Agreement immediately payable and will require the performance of any
outstanding commitment on their part.

16.4.3. Upon termination of this Access Agreement for any reason, the Users shall return to LCH SA, no later than
one month after such termination, the Documentation and all other equipment and material provided by
LCH SA, in good condition, reasonable wear and tear excepted. The said material shall be returned directly,
or placed at the disposal of LCH SA or its Subcontractors with the Users duly informing LCH SA by registered
mail with return receipt. If the Users do not return any equipment or material, LCH SA will have the right, in
18

LCH SA

Users Initials

access-agreement-legal-fmwk-15-february-2013.docx

its sole discretion, to remove the equipment or material and to charge the Users for the equipment or
material based on their then current value.
16.4.4. Upon return of the material, the Parties agree to sign a certificate of recovery of possession.

17. REVERSIBILITY
In case of LCH SA decision to:
- either appoint a new Network Services Subcontractor, or replace the existing Network Services
Subcontractor,
- or retrieve, replace or add one or several Clearing Access Solutions,
LCH SA undertakes to cooperate with the Users in order to ensure an orderly transition of the Services.
LCH SA will in due time issue a general communication to the Users detailing the conditions under which (planning,
testing plan….) such transition will take place.

18. CONFIDENTIALITY
18.1. Each Party (Recipient) undertakes to the other Party (each, a Disclosing Party) to treat as confidential all the
information and/or documents, in any form whatsoever, obtained in performing this Access Agreement that
the Recipient receives from the Disclosing Party either directly or from any other person which concerns the
business, operations, customers or users of the Disclosing Party including any data and/or electronic data files,
whether or not such items are associated with a notice of confidentiality (the Confidential Information).
18.2. The Recipient may only use the Confidential Information for the purposes of, and in accordance with, this
Access Agreement. The Recipient may only provide its employees, directors, Subcontractors, and professional
advisers together with their respective employees, directors, subcontractors and professional advisers
(Permitted Users) with access to the Confidential Information on a strict "need-to-know" basis. The Recipient
shall ensure that each of its Permitted Users is bound to hold all Confidential Information in confidence to the
standard required under this Access Agreement. Where a Permitted User is not an employee or director of the
Recipient (and is not under a professional duty to protect confidentiality) the Recipient shall ensure that the
Permitted User shall, prior receiving the Confidential Information, enter into a written confidentiality
undertaking with the Recipient on substantially equivalent terms to this Access Agreement, a copy of which
shall be provided to the Disclosing Party upon request.
18.3. This Clause 18 shall not apply to any information which:
18.3.1. is in or subsequently enters the public domain other than as a result of a breach of this Clause 18;
18.3.2. has been or is subsequently received by the Recipient from a third party and the Recipient is under no
confidentiality obligation in respect of that information other than under this Access Agreement; or
18.3.3. has been or is subsequently independently developed by the Recipient without use of the Disclosing Party's
Confidential Information; or
18.3.4. the Disclosing Party has agreed in writing may be disclosed.

18.4. Each Permitted User may disclose Confidential Information where that Permitted User (or, where the
Permitted User is an individual, his or her employer) is required to do so by law, by the Clearing Rules or by
19

LCH SA

Users Initials

access-agreement-legal-fmwk-15-february-2013.docx

any competent court or by any clearing organisation or competent regulatory authority. In these
circumstances the Recipient shall give the Disclosing Party prompt advance written notice of the disclosure
(where lawful and practical to do so) so that the Disclosing Party has sufficient opportunity (where possible) to
prevent or control the manner of disclosure by appropriate legal means.
18.5. This obligation shall remain in effect for three years after termination of this Access Agreement.

19. ASSIGNMENT
The Users shall not under any circumstances assign or transfer this Access Agreement in whole or in part without the
prior written consent of LCH SA.
Nothing in this Access Agreement shall prevent or restrict LCH SA from assigning, transferring or otherwise disposing
of any of its rights and obligations under this Access Agreement to any of its affiliated company as defined in French
Commercial Code.
20. HEADINGS
The headings in this Access Agreement do not affect its interpretation. In case of conflict between any heading to a
provision and any provision itself, the heading shall be deemed non-existent.
21. GENERAL
21.1. No partnership or agency: Nothing in this Access Agreement shall be deemed to constitute a partnership
between the Parties, nor constitute either Party the agent of the other Party for any purpose.
21.2. Waiver: The rights of each Party under this Access Agreement:
21.2.1. may be exercised as often as necessary;
21.2.2. are cumulative and not exclusive of rights or remedies provided by law; and
21.2.3. may be waived only in writing and specifically.
Delay in exercising or non-exercise of any right is not a waiver of that right.
21.3. Amendments: Any amendment of this Access Agreement shall not be binding on the Parties unless set out in
writing, expressed to amend this Access Agreement and signed by authorised representatives of each of the
Parties. Notwithstanding the above provision, the Parties agree that LCH SA may decide to add or remove
documents as Schedules to this Access Agreement pursuant to Clause 4.5 of this Access Agreement. Any new
Schedule will either repeal and replace the relevant former Schedule or be added to the contractual
documentation governing the Access Agreement and shall enter into force 30 days after LCH SA sent, through
email, general information to the Clearing Member. These new documents shall be deemed to form integral
part of this Access Agreement.
21.4. Severability: If any term of this Access Agreement is or becomes illegal, invalid or unenforceable in any
jurisdiction, that shall not affect:
21.4.1. the legality, validity or enforceability in that jurisdiction of any other term of this Access
Agreement; or

20

LCH SA

Users Initials

access-agreement-legal-fmwk-15-february-2013.docx

21.4.2. the legality, validity or enforceability in other jurisdictions of that or any other provision of this
Access Agreement,
and the Parties shall use all reasonable endeavours to agree to replace such a term with one that reflects
the meaning and purpose of the relevant term within this Access Agreement as closely as possible without
being illegal, invalid or unenforceable.

22. LANGUAGE
All notifications or correspondence between the Parties shall be made in English, but may be translated in the
language of the Users at their request. In case of any discrepancy between these versions, the signed version shall
prevail.

23. APPLICABLE LAW AND JURISDICTION
This Access Agreement shall be governed and interpreted in accordance with French Law.
23.1. In the event of a dispute, the Parties shall try and seek an amicable settlement to their conflict.
23.2. Where such an amicable settlement cannot be reached within one month, the Parties agree that any dispute
shall be resolved in accordance with Clause 23.3 of this Access Agreement.
23.3. Any dispute between the Parties that may arise out of or in connection with this Access Agreement shall be
dealt with either by the French courts having jurisdiction or the arbitration centre chosen in the Admission
Agreement if the Clearing Member agreed to refer their dispute to arbitration. In the latter case, the Parties
acknowledge that they have the capacity to enter into an arbitration agreement.
23.4. The language to be used in arbitration proceedings shall be English unless the Parties agree otherwise.
23.5. On pain of forfeiture of the rights to claim for compensation, the Users shall notify LCH SA of every claim for
compensation within and no later than twelve (12) months from the day the Users become aware, or should
have become aware using due diligence, of the occurrence of the harmful event.

Agreed and signed in two original copies, each Party acknowledging receipt of one such copy,
on
21

LCH SA

Users Initials

access-agreement-legal-fmwk-15-february-2013.docx

………..…………….,

LCH SA

User

_________________________

____________________

M_ : _______________

M_ : _____________

title: ______________

title: _____________

date: _______________

date: _____________

User’s contact details for Support Services:
telephone number ………...........................
fax number………........................................
email address…….......................................

22

LCH SA

Users Initials

EXHIBIT P-3.1

Schedule 1
SECURITY and CONTINUITY OF THE CLEARING ACCESS SOLUTIONS
1

GENERALITIES

1.1

The Users accept notably but not exclusively the following obligations to maintain, throughout the term
of this Access Agreement, the level of logical security and control of access to the Network Services,
whatever the chosen Clearing Access Solution, governed by this Access Agreement;

1.2

The Users must promptly cooperate with LCH SA in responding to security incidents and report to
LCH SA any event, condition, or activity that Users become aware of that indicates a possible or actual
violation of the Users access rights, deviation or breach or compromise of the security of the Network
Services.

1.3

The Users retain full control, either directly or indirectly, over the design and implementation of its
policy of administering authorisations for logical access to the Clearing Access Solution on all of its sites
(production site, back-up site).

1.4

Any change implemented at the Users’ initiative must remain compliant with security standards.

1.5

The Users and LCH SA will jointly investigate on all attempts at unauthorised access with a view to
determining the causes and implement the most appropriate corrective solutions.

2
2.1

CONTINUITY AND SECURITY REGARDING NETWORK SERVICES
Continuity

All network infrastructures shall comply with the following :
resilient network equipment on Users’ premises along with failover mechanisms
resilient Users’ access with no SPOF (Single Point Of Failure) based on dual carriers
secured and fully-meshed network
resilient central infrastructures
2.2

Security

Security regarding encryption and authentication are guaranteed by the Network Services provided by LCH SA,
with end-to-end VPN (Very Private Network) tunnelling based on IPSec protocol (VPN gateway fully-managed
by LCH SA Network Services Subcontractors).
All clearing data sent through the Network Services are secured by this VPN layer:
Real-time messaging MMTP
File transfer FTP
Secure file transfer SFTP
Application Programming Interfaces (API)
In addition, each LCAP is isolated on a separate DMZ on LCH SA central infrastructure.
1

3
3.1

CONTINUITY AND SECURITY REGARDING LCAP CLEARING ACCESS SOLUTION
Continuity

In order to guarantee high availability and accurate performances of the LCAP, LCH SA has implemented an
architecture built on 3 levels of resiliency :
Level 1 resiliency : Distributed Resource Scheduler (DRS) process;
Level 2 resiliency : clusters architecture;
Level 3 resiliency : Data Centres architecture with Disaster Recovery site;
3.2

Security

The access to LCAP is handled through a Logical Dongle authentication.

4
4.1
4.1.1

SECURITY REGARDING ECCW CLEARING ACCESS SOLUTION
ECCW Member Security Administrator
EMSA definition

The legal representative or any duly empowered representative of each User shall appoint at least one eCCW
Member Security Administrator (EMSA) in charge of the management of the access to the eCCW Clearing
Access Solution.
The EMSA shall have sufficient skills and independence to perform his/her tasks.
The EMSA shall be the sole point of contact for all security issues, and mainly:
Definition/modification of member users profiles (reading / writing rights)
Management of eCCW access cards.
The EMSA shall not use the eCCW Clearing Access Solution for any other purposes than those set out above.
LCH SA strongly recommends the appointment of a supplemental EMSA in the event of any unavailability of the
EMSA.
4.2
4.2.1

EMSA responsibilities
User profiles management

LCH SA will set up access to eCCW services in accordance with the terms set out on the eCCW Request Form
and any instructions notified by the EMSA. LCH SA shall make its reasonable endeavours to take into account
this instruction within a reasonable delay upon receipt of the same and to the extent that such instruction is
complete and compliant with the terms hereunder. This definition of profile(s) relies under the sole
responsibility of the EMSA.
All following events shall be immediately communicated to LCH SA by the EMSA in order to update Users’
accesses:
leavers (e.g. resignation, dismissal, any cause of leaving)
change of function
2

re assignation of eCCW access cards
loss of token or activation of eCCW access cards following de-synchronisation or loss of PIN
code.
4.2.2

Handling eCCW access cards

The EMSA shall distribute eCCW access cards to the duly appointed eCCW Users.
The EMSA shall further refer and comply with the appropriate Documentation.
The EMSAs shall train the eCCW Users in particular, with respect to the Security Policy detailed hereafter.

4.3

Security and continuity

The following Security and Authentication Policy defines the eCCW security policies.
While signing the eCCW Request Form, the Users agree to comply with such Policy as detailed below and as
amended from time to time.

4.3.1

Security and authentication policy

Authentication policy
The access to the eCCW Clearing Access Solution requires a unique username, a PIN code and a eCCW access
card to generate the one-time password.
The user name identifies the eCCW services user and the PIN code enables the user to obtain a password from
the eCCW access card. The eCCW access card generates a new password each time the user enters the PIN
code.
To log into the eCCW services, the user shall enter his user name and password. The server authenticates the
user and the eCCW system grants access to the user in accordance with the specifications set out in the
Request Form.
A user name within the Users or any other entity identified in the Request Form enables the use of only one
eCCW access card in a given environment (i.e. production and test platform for the main eCCW access card and
production only for the eCCW backup access card).
User names will be provided by LCH SA on request of the EMSA.
User names shall be meaningful enough to uniquely identify the user.
Very short names and generic names related to functions shall be prohibited.
The initial PIN is provided by LCH SA for a fixed term. When an eCCW access card is used for the first time, the
user will be requested to create a new PIN which can be changed at any time by the eCCW services user.
PINs shall be kept securely and shall not be disclosed. Any change of the PIN shall be undertaken under the
responsibility of the relevant eCCW services user.
The eCCW Clearing Access Solution users shall securely store their eCCW access card when they do not use the
same.

3

Security and Back up Policy
eCCW user sessions shall expire after a 20 minutes period of inactivity. The workstation which gives access to
the eCCW services should also be configured with a separate, shorter local time-out option (e.g. Windows
Screensaver).
In any case, the Users shall be responsible for the security and correct use of the eCCW access cards provided
to them by LCH SA. Any loss or misuse of eCCW access cards shall be the sole responsibility of the Users. In that
respect, LCH SA recommends EMSAs to order eCCW backup access cards to be assigned to eCCW users in back
up situations.

Those eCCW backup access cards will be active and pre assigned to any eCCW user (i.e., duplication of the
eCCW main access card), and as such to be used only in replacement of eCCW main access cards.
eCCW main access cards and eCCW backup access cards shall not be and cannot be used simultaneously.

5

SECURITY REGARDING LCH SA WEB FIXED INCOME
CLEARING ACCESS SOLUTIONS

The following Security and Authentication Policy defines the Web Fixed Income security policies.
While ordering a Web Fixed Income access Clearing Access Solutions, the Users agree to comply with such
Policy as detailed below and as amended from time to time.
5.1

Authentication policy

The access to LCH SA relevant website (Web Fixed Income) is done through a secured link and requires a
unique user ID, a PIN code and an access card to generate a one-time Pass Code.
The user ID identifies the user and the PIN code is used to activate the access card that will generate one-time
Pass Codes on a regular basis. Those Pass Codes are synchronized with the relevant web site in order to be
recognized.
To log into the Web Fixed Income services, the user shall enter his user ID and the one-time generated Pass
Code that appears on his access card at login time. The server authenticates the user and the system grants
access to the user.
5.2

Security and Back up Policy

5.2.1

5.2.1.1

Member Security Administrator

MSA definition

The legal representative or any duly empowered representative of each User shall appoint at least one
Member Security Administrator (MSA) in charge of the management of the access to the Web Fixed Income
Clearing Access Solution.
The MSA shall have sufficient skills and independence to perform his/her tasks.
The MSA shall be the sole point of contact for all security issues, and notably the management of Web Fixed
Income access cards.
4

LCH SA strongly recommends the appointment of a supplemental MSA in the event of any unavailability of the
MSA.

5.2.1.2

MSA responsibilities

5.2.1.2.1

User management

LCH SA will set up access to Web Fixed Income services in accordance with the terms set out on the Web Fixed
Income Request Form and any instructions notified by the MSA. LCH SA shall make its reasonable endeavours
to take into account this instruction within a reasonable delay upon receipt of the same and to the extent that
such instruction is complete and compliant with the terms hereunder.
All following events shall be immediately communicated to LCH SA by the MSA in order to update Users’
accesses:
leavers (e.g. resignation, dismissal, any cause of leaving)
change of function
re assignation of Web Fixed Income cards
loss of token or activation of Web Fixed Income cards following de-synchronisation or loss of
PIN code.

5.2.1.2.2

Handling Web Fixed Income access cards

The MSA shall distribute Web Fixed Income cards to the duly appointed Web Fixed Income Users.
The MSA shall further refer and comply with the appropriate Documentation.
The MSAs shall train the Web Fixed Income Users in particular, with respect to the Security Policy detailed
hereafter.
5.2.2

Security

The Users are informed that this system creates an audit trail that cannot be repudiated. The users shall be
held accountable for activities recorded identifying them as the perpetrators. Impersonation (Unauthorized use
of one’s identity and privileges) shall be avoided by protecting the secrecy user ID and access card.
The Users are responsible for taking the following precautions:
PIN code shall not be spread over
PIN code shall not be written on accessible documents
access card shall be protected from the theft. If the access card is misled or stolen, LCH SA
CTH shall be informed at once to neutralize it so that it becomes unusable. LCH SA CTH can
generate a temporary password having made sure of the identity of the user.
The Users are responsible for the protection of their access cards:
It shall not be immersed in a liquid
It shall not be exposed to extreme temperatures
It shall not be put under pressure
It shall not be folded

5

6

SECURITY REGARDING LCH SA WEB EGCP

The following Security and Authentication Policy defines the Web EGCP security policies.
While ordering a Web EGCP access Clearing Access Solutions, the Users agree to comply with such Policy as
detailed below and as amended from time to time.
6.1

Authentication policy

The access to LCH SA relevant website (Web EGCP) is done through a secured link and requires a unique user
ID, a PIN code and an access card to generate a one-time Pass Code.
The user ID identifies the user and the PIN code is used to activate the access card that will generate one -time
Pass Codes on a regular basis. Those Pass Codes are synchronized with the relevant web site in order to be
recognized.
To log into the Web EGCP services, the user shall enter his user ID and the one-time generated Pass Code that
appears on his access card at login time. The server authenticates the user and the system grants access to the
user.
6.2

Security and Back up Policy

6.2.1

Member Security Administrator

6.2.1.1

MSA definition

The legal representative or any duly empowered representative of each User shall appoint at least one
Member Security Administrator (MSA) in charge of the management of the access to the Web EGCP Clearing
Access Solution.
The MSA shall have sufficient skills and independence to perform his/her tasks.
The MSA shall be the sole point of contact for all security issues, and notably the management of Web EGCP
access cards.
LCH SA strongly recommends the appointment of a supplemental MSA in the event of any unavailability of the
MSA.

6.2.1.2
6.2.1.2.1

MSA responsibilities
User management

LCH SA will set up access to Web EGCP services in accordance with the terms set out on the Web EGCP Request
Form and any instructions notified by the MSA. LCH SA shall make its reasonable endeavours to take into
account this instruction within a reasonable delay upon receipt of the same and to the extent that such
instruction is complete and compliant with the terms hereunder.
All following events shall be immediately communicated to LCH SA by the MSA in order to update Users’
accesses:
leavers (e.g. resignation, dismissal, any cause of leaving)
change of function
re assignation of Web EGCP cards
6

loss of token or activation of Web EGCP cards following de-synchronisation or loss of PIN
code.

6.2.1.2.2

Handling Web EGCP access cards

The MSA shall distribute Web EGCP cards to the duly appointed Web EGCP Users.
The MSA shall further refer and comply with the appropriate Documentation.
The MSAs shall train the Web EGCP Users in particular, with respect to the Security Policy detailed hereafter.
6.2.2

Security

The Users are informed that this system creates an audit trail that cannot be repudiated. The users shall be
held accountable for activities recorded identifying them as the perpetrators. Impersonation (Unauthorized use
of one’s identity and privileges) shall be avoided by protecting the secrecy user ID and access card.
The Users are responsible for taking the following precautions:
PIN code shall not be spread over
PIN code shall not be written on accessible documents
access card shall be protected from the theft. If the access card is misled or stolen, LCH SA
CTH shall be informed at once to neutralize it so that it becomes unusable. LCH SA CTH can
generate a temporary password having made sure of the identity of the user.
The Users are responsible for the protection of their access cards:
It shall not be immersed in a liquid
It shall not be exposed to extreme temperatures
It shall not be put under pressure
It shall not be folded

7

SECURITY REGARDING CMS CLEARING ACCESS SOLUTIONS

The following Security and Authentication Policy defines the CMS security policies.
While signing the LCH SA Portal / CMS Request Form, the Clearing Members agree to comply with such Policy
as detailed below and as amended from time to time.

7.1

Security and authentication policy

Authentication policy
The access to the CMS requires a unique username and a password.
To log into CMS, the user shall enter his user name and password. The server authenticates the user and the
system grants access to the user in accordance with the specifications set out in the Request Form.
User names will be provided by LCH SA on request of the user
User names shall be meaningful enough to uniquely identify the user.
Very short names and generic names related to functions shall be prohibited.

7

The initial password is provided by LCH SA for a fixed term. When user logs in for the first time, the user will be
requested to create a new password which can be changed at any time by the user.
7.2

Security and Back up Policy

CMS user sessions shall expire after a 20 minutes period of inactivity. The workstation which gives access to the
CMS services shall also be configured with a separate, shorter local time-out option (e.g. Windows
Screensaver).
The Clearing Member shall have in place all necessary security measures and procedures to prevent any
unauthorised access to, or use of, CMS and CMS Content and the Clearing Member shall immediately notify
LCH SA in the event of any such unauthorised access or use, or if any Access Details are lost, stolen, misused or
become known by any person other than the relevant Authorised User.
In any case, the Clearing Member shall be responsible for the security and correct use of the credentials
provided to them by LCH SA. Any misuse of the credentials shall be the sole responsibility of the Clearing
Members.
The Clearing Member shall immediately notify LCH SA on becoming aware of any unauthorised access or use,
or if any of its Access Details are lost, stolen, misused or become known by any other person.

7.3

Continuity

The Clearing Member shall procure that the Authorised Users shall comply with the terms of this Access
Agreement and shall ensure that only Authorised Users to whom valid Access Details have been issued will
access or use (or attempt to access or use) CMS and that Access Details are at all times kept confidential. If an
Authorised User ceases to be authorised to act by the Clearing Member, the Clearing Member will immediately
notify LCH SA by using the contact details provided for this purpose to the Clearing Member by LCH SA from
time to time. The Clearing Member shall ensure the Authorised User ceases to access and use CMS
immediately if it ceases to be authorised to act by the Clearing Member.
LCH SA shall be entitled to suspend access to CMS by the Clearing Member, suspend and/or terminate access
to CMS in respect of each Authorised User, and amend any or all Access Details, in each case from time to time
and without prior notice to the Clearing Member or any Authorised User. Where LCH SA notifies the Clearing
Member that it is suspending or terminating an Authorised User's right to access CMS the Clearing Member
shall ensure that each Authorised User ceases to access CMS until, in the case of suspension, LCH SA advises it
that such Authorised User is no longer so suspended.

8

8

SECURITY REGARDING CDSCLEAR PORTFOLIO MARGIN CALCULATION TOOL

The following Security and Authentication Policy defines the CDSClear Portfolio Margin Calculation tool (PMC)
security policies.
While signing the LCH SA Portal / PMC Request Form, the Clearing Members agree to comply with such Policy
as detailed below and as amended from time to time.

8.1

Security and authentication policy

Authentication policy
Clearing Members ID are assigned to individual users. They are created by nominated member Super Users or
internal LCH SA business Super Users.
User authentication to the LCH SA Portal and its applications is two-factor.
1) A user ID and password will be required to login to the service
2) And a 2nd factor of authentication – based on source IP address (user’s computer location) is invoked
via a risk-based approach. i.e. users will be prompted for additional One-Time Access Code (sent to the
registered corporate email address) when the source IP in non-white listed or is form a different
location
Key Rules and Controls:
A named User ID and password are issued to each individual user. User IDs must not be shared and must only
be used by the named individual. User IDs must be named and not generic and associated with a recognised
corporate email account. 3rd party email addresses are not be allowed.
Passwords must conform to the following rules:
1)
2)
3)
4)
5)

Minimum 8 characters.
At least one upper case.
One number
Passwords cannot be re-used (remembers 17 recently used passwords)
Passwords must be changed on first login or after reset by LCH SA Security Admin teams

The access to the PMC requires a unique username and a password.
To log into PMC, the user shall enter his user name and password. The server authenticates the user and the
system grants access to the user in accordance with the specifications set out in the Request Form.
User names will be provided by LCH SA on request of the Clearing Member. User names shall be meaningful
enough to uniquely identify the user. Very short names and generic names related to functions shall be
prohibited.
The initial password is provided by LCH SA for a fixed term. When user logs in for the first time, the user will be
requested to create a new password which can be changed at any time by the user.
8.2

Security and Back up Policy

PMC user sessions shall expire after a 30 minutes period of inactivity. The workstation which gives access to the
PMC services shall also be configured with a separate, shorter local time-out option (e.g. Windows
Screensaver).
Accounts that are not used for a period of 3 months will be made inactive and a further 3 months, deleted.
9

The Clearing Member shall have in place all necessary security measures and procedures to prevent any
unauthorised access to, or use of, PMC and PMC Content and the Clearing Member shall immediately notify
LCH SA in the event of any such unauthorised access or use, or if any Access Details are lost, stolen, misused or
become known by any person other than the relevant Authorised User.
In any case, the Clearing Member shall be responsible for the security and correct use of the credentials
provided to them by LCH SA. Any misuse of the credentials shall be the sole responsibility of the Clearing
Members.
The Clearing Member shall immediately notify LCH SA on becoming aware of any unauthorised access or use,
or if any of its Access Details are lost, stolen, misused or become known by any other person.
8.3

Continuity

The Clearing Member shall procure that the Authorised Users shall comply with the terms of this Access
Agreement and shall ensure that only Authorised Users to whom valid Access Details have been issued will
access or use (or attempt to access or use) PMC and that Access Details are at all times kept confidential. If an
Authorised User ceases to be authorised to act by the Clearing Member the Clearing Member will immediately
notify LCH SA by using the contact details provided for this purpose to the Clearing Member by LCH SA from
time to time. The Clearing Member shall ensure the Authorised User ceases to access and use PMC
immediately it ceases to be authorised to act by the Clearing Member.
LCH SA shall be entitled to suspend access to PMC by the Clearing Member, suspend and/or terminate access
to PMC in respect of each Authorised User, and amend any or all Access Details, in each case from time to time
and without prior notice to the Clearing Member or any Authorised User. Where LCH SA notifies the Clearing
Member that it is suspending or terminating an Authorised User's right to access PMC the Clearing Member
shall ensure that each Authorised User ceases to access PMC until, in the case of suspension, LCH SA advises it
that such Authorised User is no longer so suspended.
8.4

Auditing

All account activity with the LCH SA Portal and its applications is logged. Logs include: user name, source IP
address, date, time, URL clicks and application action.
All changes to an individual access levels is tracked for audit purposes.

10

9

SECURITY REGARDING CDSCLEAR REPORTING APPLICATION

The following Security and Authentication Policy defines the CDSClear Reporting application security policies.
While signing the LCH SA Portal / CDSClear Reporting application Request Form, the Clearing Members agree to
comply with such Policy as detailed below and as amended from time to time.

9.1

Security and authentication policy

Authentication policy
User IDs are assigned to individual users. They are created by nominated member Super Users or internal
LCH SA business Super Users.
User authentication to the LCH SA Portal and its applications is two-factor.
1) A user ID and password will be required to login to the service
2) And a 2nd factor of authentication – based on source IP address (user’s computer location) is invoked
via a risk-based approach. i.e. users will be prompted for additional One-Time Access Code (sent to the
registered corporate email address) when the source IP in non-white listed or is form a different
location
Key Rules and Controls:
A named User ID and password are issued to each individual user. User IDs must not be shared and only used
by the named individual. User IDs must be named and not generic and associated with a recognised corporate
email account. 3rd party email addresses are not be allowed.
Passwords must conform to the following rules:
1)
2)
3)
4)
5)

Minimum 8 characters.
At least one upper case.
One number
Passwords cannot be re-used (remembers 17 recently used passwords)
Passwords must be changed on first login or after reset by LCH SA Security Admin teams

The access to the CDSClear Reporting application requires a unique username and a password.
To log into the CDSClear Reporting application, the user shall enter his user name and password. The server
authenticates the user and the system grants access to the user in accordance with the specifications set out in
the Request Form.
User names will be provided by LCH SA on request of the Clearing Member. User names shall be meaningful
enough to uniquely identify the user. Very short names and generic names related to functions shall be
prohibited.
The initial password is provided by LCH SA for a fixed term. When user logs in for the first time, the user will be
requested to create a new password which can be changed at any time by the user.

11

9.2

Security and Back up Policy

The CDSClear Reporting application user sessions shall expire after a 30 minutes period of inactivity. The
workstation which gives access to the CDSClear Reporting application services shall also be configured with a
separate, shorter local time-out option (e.g. Windows Screensaver).
Accounts that are not used for a period of 3 months will be made inactive and a further 3 months, deleted.
The Clearing Member shall have in place all necessary security measures and procedures to prevent any
unauthorised access to, or use of, the CDSClear Reporting application and the CDSClear Reporting application
Content and the Clearing Member shall immediately notify LCH SA in the event of any such unauthorised
access or use, or if any Access Details are lost, stolen, misused or become known by any person other than the
relevant Authorised User.
In any case, the Clearing Member shall be responsible for the security and correct use of the credentials
provided to them by LCH SA. Any misuse of the credentials shall be the sole responsibility of the Clearing
Members.
The Clearing Member shall immediately notify LCH SA on becoming aware of any unauthorised access or use,
or if any of its Access Details are lost, stolen, misused or become known by any other person.
9.3

Continuity

The Clearing Member shall procure that the Authorised Users shall comply with the terms of this Access
Agreement and shall ensure that only Authorised Users to whom valid Access Details have been issued will
access or use (or attempt to access or use) the CDSClear Reporting application and that Access Details are at all
times kept confidential. If an Authorised User ceases to be authorised to act by the Clearing Member the
Clearing Member will immediately notify LCH SA by using the contact details provided for this purpose to the
Clearing Member by LCH SA from time to time. The Clearing Member shall ensure the Authorised User ceases
to access and use the CDSClear Reporting application immediately it ceases to be authorised to act by the
Clearing Member.
LCH SA shall be entitled to suspend access to the CDSClear Reporting application by the Clearing Member,
suspend and/or terminate access to the CDSClear Reporting application in respect of each Authorised User, and
amend any or all Access Details, in each case from time to time and without prior notice to the Clearing
Member or any Authorised User. Where LCH SA notifies the Clearing Member that it is suspending or
terminating an Authorised User's right to access the CDSClear Reporting application the Clearing Member shall
ensure that each Authorised User ceases to access the CDSClear Reporting application until, in the case of
suspension, LCH SA advises it that such Authorised User is no longer so suspended.
9.4

Auditing

All account activity with the LCH SA Portal and its applications is logged. Logs include: user name, source IP
address, date, time, URL clicks and application action.
All changes to an individual access levels is tracked for audit purposes.

12

10 SECURITY REGARDING CDSCLEAR TRADE MANAGEMENT APPLICATION

The following Security and Authentication Policy defines the CDSClear Trade Management application security
policies.
While signing the LCH SA Portal / the CDSClear Trade Management application Request Form, the Clearing
Members agree to comply with such Policy as detailed below and as amended from time to time.

10.1

Security and authentication policy

Authentication policy
Users ID are assigned to individual users. They are created by nominated member Super Users or internal
LCH SA business Super Users.
User authentication to the LCH SA Portal and its applications is two-factor.
1) A user ID and password will be required to login to the service
2) And a 2nd factor of authentication – based on source IP address (user’s computer location) is invoked
via a risk-based approach. i.e. users will be prompted for additional One-Time Access Code (sent to the
registered corporate email address) when the source IP in non-white listed or is form a different
location
Key Rules and Controls:
A named User ID and password are issued to each individual user. User Ids must not be shared and only used
by the named individual. User IDs must be named and not generic and associated with a recognised corporate
email account. 3rd party email addresses are not be allowed.
Passwords must conform to the following rules:
1)
2)
3)
4)
5)

Minimum 8 characters.
At least one upper case.
One number
Passwords cannot be re-used (remembers 17 recently used passwords)
Passwords must be changed on first login or after reset by LCH SA Security Admin teams

The access to the CDSClear Trade Management application requires a unique username and a password.
To log into the CDSClear Trade Management application, the user shall enter his user name and password. The
server authenticates the user and the system grants access to the user in accordance with the specifications set
out in the Request Form.
User names will be provided by LCH SA on request of the Clearing Member. User names shall be meaningful
enough to uniquely identify the user. Very short names and generic names related to functions shall be
prohibited.
The initial password is provided by LCH SA for a fixed term. When user logs in for the first time, the user will be
requested to create a new password which can be changed at any time by the user.

13

10.2

Security and Back up Policy

The CDSClear Trade Management application user sessions shall expire after a 30 minutes period of inactivity.
The workstation which gives access to the CDSClear Reporting application services shall also be configured with
a separate, shorter local time-out option (e.g. Windows Screensaver).
Accounts that are not used for a period of 3 months will be made inactive and a further 3 months, deleted.
The Clearing Member shall have in place all necessary security measures and procedures to prevent any
unauthorised access to, or use of, the CDSClear Trade Management application and the CDSClear Trade
Management application Content and the Clearing Member shall immediately notify LCH SA in the event of any
such unauthorised access or use, or if any Access Details are lost, stolen, misused or become known by any
person other than the relevant Authorised User.
In any case, the Clearing Member shall be responsible for the security and correct use of the credentials
provided to them by LCH SA. Any misuse of the credentials shall be the sole responsibility of the Clearing
Members.
The Clearing Member shall immediately notify LCH SA on becoming aware of any unauthorised access or use,
or if any of its Access Details are lost, stolen, misused or become known by any other person.
10.3

Continuity

The Clearing Member shall procure that the Authorised Users shall comply with the terms of this Access
Agreement and shall ensure that only Authorised Users to whom valid Access Details have been issued will
access or use (or attempt to access or use) the CDSClear Trade Management application and that Access Details
are at all times kept confidential. If an Authorised User ceases to be authorised to act by the Clearing Member
the Clearing Member will immediately notify LCH SA by using the contact details provided for this purpose to
the Clearing Member by LCH SA from time to time. The Clearing Member shall ensure the Authorised User
ceases to access and use the CDSClear Trade Management application immediately it ceases to be authorised
to act by the Clearing Member.
LCH SA shall be entitled to suspend access to the CDSClear Trade Management application by the Clearing
Member, suspend and/or terminate access to the CDSClear Trade Management application in respect of each
Authorised User, and amend any or all Access Details, in each case from time to time and without prior notice
to the Clearing Member or any Authorised User. Where LCH SA notifies the Clearing Member that it is
suspending or terminating an Authorised User's right to access the CDSClear Trade Management application
the Clearing Member shall ensure that each Authorised User ceases to access the CDSClear Trade Management
application until, in the case of suspension, LCH SA advises it that such Authorised User is no longer so
suspended.
10.4

Auditing

All account activity with the LCH SA Portal and its applications is logged. Logs include: user name, source IP
address, date, time, URL clicks and application action.
All changes to an individual access levels is tracked for audit purposes.

14

11 SECURITY REGARDING CDSCLEAR BACKLOADING APPLICATION

The following Security and Authentication Policy defines the CDSClear Backloading application security policies.
While signing the LCH SA Portal / the CDSClear Backloading application Request Form, the Clearing Members
agree to comply with such Policy as detailed below and as amended from time to time.

11.1

Security and authentication policy

Authentication policy
Users ID are assigned to individual users. They are created by nominated member Super Users or internal
LCH SA business Super Users.
User authentication to the LCH SA Portal and its applications is two-factor.
1) A user ID and password will be required to login to the service
2) And a 2nd factor of authentication – based on source IP address (user’s computer location) is invoked
via a risk-based approach. i.e. users will be prompted for additional One-Time Access Code (sent to the
registered corporate email address) when the source IP in non-white listed or is form a different
location
Key Rules and Controls:
A named User ID and password are issued to each individual user. User IDs must not be shared and only used
by the named individual. User IDs must be named and not generic and associated with a recognised corporate
email account. 3rd party email addresses are not be allowed.
Passwords must conform to the following rules:
1)
2)
3)
4)
5)

Minimum 8 characters.
At least one upper case.
One number
Passwords cannot be re-used (remembers 17 recently used passwords)
Passwords must be changed on first login or after reset by LCH SA Security Admin teams

The access to the CDSClear Backloading application requires a unique username and a password.
To log into the CDSClear Backloading application, the user shall enter his user name and password. The server
authenticates the user and the system grants access to the user in accordance with the specifications set out in
the Request Form.
User names will be provided by LCH SA on request of the Clearing Member. User names shall be meaningful
enough to uniquely identify the user. Very short names and generic names related to functions shall be
prohibited.
The initial password is provided by LCH SA for a fixed term. When user logs in for the first time, the user will be
requested to create a new password which can be changed at any time by the user.

15

11.2

Security and Back up Policy

The CDSClear Backloading application user sessions shall expire after a 30 minutes period of inactivity. The
workstation which gives access to the CDSClear Backloading application services shall also be configured with a
separate, shorter local time-out option (e.g. Windows Screensaver).
Accounts that are not used for a period of 3 months will be made inactive and a further 3 months, deleted.
The Clearing Member shall have in place all necessary security measures and procedures to prevent any
unauthorised access to, or use of, the CDSClear Backloading application and the CDSClear Backloading
application Content and the Clearing Member shall immediately notify LCH SA in the event of any such
unauthorised access or use, or if any Access Details are lost, stolen, misused or become known by any person
other than the relevant Authorised User.
In any case, the Clearing Member shall be responsible for the security and correct use of the credentials
provided to them by LCH SA. Any misuse of the credentials shall be the sole responsibility of the Clearing
Members.
The Clearing Member shall immediately notify LCH SA on becoming aware of any unauthorised access or use,
or if any of its Access Details are lost, stolen, misused or become known by any other person.
11.3

Continuity

The Clearing Member shall procure that the Authorised Users shall comply with the terms of this Access
Agreement and shall ensure that only Authorised Users to whom valid Access Details have been issued will
access or use (or attempt to access or use) the CDSClear Backloading application and that Access Details are at
all times kept confidential. If an Authorised User ceases to be authorised to act by the Clearing Member the
Clearing Member will immediately notify LCH SA by using the contact details provided for this purpose to the
Clearing Member by LCH SA from time to time. The Clearing Member shall ensure the Authorised User ceases
to access and use the CDSClear Backloading application immediately it ceases to be authorised to act by the
Clearing Member.
LCH SA shall be entitled to suspend access to the CDSClear Backloading application by the Clearing Member,
suspend and/or terminate access to the CDSClear Backloading application in respect of each Authorised User,
and amend any or all Access Details, in each case from time to time and without prior notice to the Clearing
Member or any Authorised User. Where LCH SA notifies the Clearing Member that it is suspending or
terminating an Authorised User's right to access the CDSClear Backloading application the Clearing Member
shall ensure that each Authorised User ceases to access the CDSClear Backloading application until, in the case
of suspension, LCH SA advises it that such Authorised User is no longer so suspended.
11.4

Auditing

All account activity with the LCH SA Portal and its applications is logged. Logs include: user name, source IP
address, date, time, URL clicks and application action.
All changes to an individual access levels is tracked for audit purposes.

16

12 SECURITY REGARDING CDSCLEAR COMPRESSION APPLICATION

The following Security and Authentication Policy defines the CDSClear Compression application security
policies.
While signing the LCH SA Portal / the CDSClear Compression application Request Form, the Users agree to
comply with such Policy as detailed below and as amended from time to time.

12.1

Security and authentication policy

Authentication policy
Users ID are assigned to individual users. They are created by nominated member Super Users or internal
LCH SA business Super Users.
User authentication to the LCH SA Portal and its applications is two-factor.
1) A user ID and password will be required to login to the service
2) And a 2nd factor of authentication – based on source IP address (user’s computer location) is invoked
via a risk-based approach. i.e. users will be prompted for additional One-Time Access Code (sent to the
registered corporate email address) when the source IP in non-white listed or is form a different
location
Key Rules and Controls:
A named User ID and password are issued to each individual user. User Ids must not be shared and only used
by the named individual. User IDs must be named and not generic and associated with a recognised corporate
email account. 3rd party email addresses are not be allowed.
Passwords must conform to the following rules:
1)
2)
3)
4)
5)

Minimum 8 characters.
At least one upper case.
One number
Passwords cannot be re-used (remembers 17 recently used passwords)
Passwords must be changed on first login or after reset by LCH SA Security Admin teams

The access to the CDSClear Compression application requires a unique username and a password.
To log into the CDSClear Compression application, the user shall enter his user name and password. The server
authenticates the user and the system grants access to the user in accordance with the specifications set out in
the Request Form.
User names will be provided by LCH SA on request of the User. User names shall be meaningful enough to
uniquely identify the user. Very short names and generic names related to functions shall be prohibited.
The initial password is provided by LCH SA for a fixed term. When user logs in for the first time, the user will be
requested to create a new password which can be changed at any time by the user.

17

12.2

Security and Back up Policy

The CDSClear Compression application user sessions shall expire after a 30 minutes period of inactivity. The
workstation which gives access to the CDSClear Compression application services shall also be configured with
a separate, shorter local time-out option (e.g. Windows Screensaver).
Accounts that are not used for a period of 3 months will be made inactive and a further 3 months, deleted.
The Clearing Member shall have in place all necessary security measures and procedures to prevent any
unauthorised access to, or use of, the CDSClear Compression application and the CDSClear Compression
application Content and the Clearing Member shall immediately notify LCH SA in the event of any such
unauthorised access or use, or if any Access Details are lost, stolen, misused or become known by any person
other than the relevant Authorised User.
In any case, the Clearing Member shall be responsible for the security and correct use of the credentials
provided to them by LCH SA. Any misuse of the credentials shall be the sole responsibility of the Users.
The Clearing Member shall immediately notify LCH SA on becoming aware of any unauthorised access or use,
or if any of its Access Details are lost, stolen, misused or become known by any other person.
12.3

Continuity

The Clearing Member shall procure that the Authorised Users shall comply with the terms of this Access
Agreement and shall ensure that only Authorised Users to whom valid Access Details have been issued will
access or use (or attempt to access or use) the CDSClear Compression application and that Access Details are at
all times kept confidential. If an Authorised User ceases to be authorised to act by the Clearing Member the
Clearing Member will immediately notify LCH SA by using the contact details provided for this purpose to the
Clearing Member by LCH SA from time to time. The Clearing Member shall ensure the Authorised User ceases
to access and use the CDSClear Compression application immediately it ceases to be authorised to act by the
Clearing Member.
LCH SA shall be entitled to suspend access to the CDSClear Compression application by the Clearing Member,
suspend and/or terminate access to the CDSClear Compression application in respect of each Authorised User,
and amend any or all Access Details, in each case from time to time and without prior notice to the Clearing
Member or any Authorised User. Where LCH SA notifies the Clearing Member that it is suspending or
terminating an Authorised User's right to access the CDSClear Compression application the Clearing Member
shall ensure that each Authorised User ceases to access the CDSClear Compression application until, in the case
of suspension, LCH SA advises it that such Authorised User is no longer so suspended.

12.4

Auditing

All account activity with the LCH SA Portal and its applications is logged. Logs include: user name, source IP
address, date, time, URL clicks and application action.
All changes to an individual access levels is tracked for audit purposes.

18

13 CONTINUITY AND SECURITY REGARDING THE CDSCLEAR REPORTING SFTP CLEARING
ACCESS SOLUTION
The following Security and Authentication Policy defines the CDSClear SFTP solution security policies.
While signing the LCH SA Portal / CDSClear Reporting SFTP solution Request Form, the Clearing Members agree
to comply with such Policy as detailed below and as amended from time to time.
13.1

Security and authentication policy

Authentication policy
Clearing Members ID are assigned to individual users. They are created by nominated member Super Users or
internal LCH SA business Super Users.
User authentification is based on:
- a unique user ID and a password; and
- source IP address (user’s computer location) which is invoked via a risk-based approach, i.e. users will be
prompted for additional One-Time Access Code (sent to the registered corporate email address) when the
source IP in non-white listed or is form a different location
Key Rules and Controls:
A named User ID and password are issued to each individual user. User IDs must not be shared and must only
be used by the named individual. User IDs must be named and not generic and associated with a recognised
corporate email account. 3rd party email addresses are not be allowed.
Passwords must conform to the following rules:
1)
2)
3)
4)
5)

Minimum 8 characters.
At least one upper case.
One number
Passwords cannot be re-used (remembers 17 recently used passwords)
Passwords must be changed on first login or after reset by LCH SA Security Admin teams

The access to the CDSClear Reporting SFTP solution requires a unique username and a password.
To log into the CDSClear Reporting SFTP solution, the user shall enter his user name and password. The server
authenticates the user and the system grants access to the user in accordance with the specifications set out in
the Request Form.
User names will be provided by LCH SA on request of the Clearing Member. User names shall be meaningful
enough to uniquely identify the user. Very short names and generic names related to functions shall be
prohibited.
The initial password is provided by LCH SA for a fixed term. When user logs in for the first time, the user will be
requested to create a new password which can be changed at any time by the user.
13.2

Security and Back up Policy

CDSClear Reporting SFTP solution user sessions shall expire after a 30 minutes period of inactivity. The
workstation which gives access to the CDSClear SFTP solution services shall also be configured with a separate,
shorter local time-out option (e.g. Windows Screensaver).
Accounts that are not used for a period of 3 months will be made inactive and a further 3 months, deleted.
19

The Clearing Member shall have in place all necessary security measures and procedures to prevent any
unauthorised access to, or use of, CDSClear Reporting SFTP solution and CDSClear Reporting SFTP solution
Content and the Clearing Member shall immediately notify LCH SA in the event of any such unauthorised
access or use, or if any Access Details are lost, stolen, misused or become known by any person other than the
relevant Authorised User.
In any case, the Clearing Member shall be responsible for the security and correct use of the credentials
provided to them by LCH SA. Any misuse of the credentials shall be the sole responsibility of the Clearing
Members.
The Clearing Member shall immediately notify LCH SA on becoming aware of any unauthorised access or use,
or if any of its Access Details are lost, stolen, misused or become known by any other person.
13.3

Continuity

The Clearing Member shall procure that the Authorised Users shall comply with the terms of this Access
Agreement and shall ensure that only Authorised Users to whom valid Access Details have been issued will
access or use (or attempt to access or use) CDSClear Reporting SFTP solution and that Access Details are at all
times kept confidential. If an Authorised User ceases to be authorised to act by the Clearing Member the
Clearing Member will immediately notify LCH SA by using the contact details provided for this purpose to the
Clearing Member by LCH SA from time to time. The Clearing Member shall ensure the Authorised User ceases
to access and use CDSClear Reporting SFTP solution immediately it ceases to be authorised to act by the
Clearing Member.
LCH SA shall be entitled to suspend access to CDSClear Reporting SFTP solution by the Clearing Member,
suspend and/or terminate access to CDSClear Reporting SFTP solution in respect of each Authorised User, and
amend any or all Access Details, in each case from time to time and without prior notice to the Clearing
Member or any Authorised User. Where LCH SA notifies the Clearing Member that it is suspending or
terminating an Authorised User's right to access CDSClear Reporting SFTP solution the Clearing Member shall
ensure that each Authorised User ceases to access CDSClear Reporting SFTP solution until, in the case of
suspension, LCH SA advises it that such Authorised User is no longer so suspended.

14 CONTINUITY AND SECURITY REGARDING THE CDSCLEAR REPORTING APPLICATION
PROGRAMMING INTERFACE
The following Security and Authentication Policy defines the CDSClear Reporting Application Programming
Interface (API) solution security policies.
While signing the LCH SA Portal / CDSClear Reporting API solution Request Form, the Clearing Members agree
to comply with such Policy as detailed below and as amended from time to time.
14.1

Security and authentication policy

Authentication policy
Clearing Members ID are assigned to individual users. They are created by nominated member Super Users or
internal LCH SA business Super Users.
User authentification is based on:
- a unique user ID and a password; and
- source IP address (user’s computer location) which is invoked via a risk-based approach, i.e. users will be
prompted for additional One-Time Access Code (sent to the registered corporate email address) when the
source IP in non-white listed or is form a different location
20

Key Rules and Controls:
A named User ID and password are issued to each individual user. User IDs must not be shared and must only
be used by the named individual. User IDs must be named and not generic and associated with a recognised
corporate email account. 3rd party email addresses are not be allowed.
Passwords must conform to the following rules:
1)
2)
3)
4)
5)

Minimum 8 characters.
At least one upper case.
One number
Passwords cannot be re-used (remembers 17 recently used passwords)
Passwords must be changed on first login or after reset by LCH SA Security Admin teams

The access to the CDSClear Reporting API solution requires a unique username and a password.
To log into the CDSClear Reporting API solution, the user shall enter his user name and password. The server
authenticates the user and the system grants access to the user in accordance with the specifications set out in
the Request Form.
User names will be provided by LCH SA on request of the Clearing Member. User names shall be meaningful
enough to uniquely identify the user. Very short names and generic names related to functions shall be
prohibited.
The initial password is provided by LCH SA for a fixed term. When user logs in for the first time, the user will be
requested to create a new password which can be changed at any time by the user.
14.2

Security and Back up Policy

CDSClear Reporting API solution user sessions shall expire after a 30 minutes period of inactivity. The
workstation which gives access to the CDSClear Reporting API solution services shall also be configured with a
separate, shorter local time-out option (e.g. Windows Screensaver).
Accounts that are not used for a period of 3 months will be made inactive and a further 3 months, deleted.
The Clearing Member shall have in place all necessary security measures and procedures to prevent any
unauthorised access to, or use of, CDSClear Reporting API solution and CDSClear Reporting API solution
Content and the Clearing Member shall immediately notify LCH SA in the event of any such unauthorised
access or use, or if any Access Details are lost, stolen, misused or become known by any person other than the
relevant Authorised User.
In any case, the Clearing Member shall be responsible for the security and correct use of the credentials
provided to them by LCH SA. Any misuse of the credentials shall be the sole responsibility of the Clearing
Members.
The Clearing Member shall immediately notify LCH SA on becoming aware of any unauthorised access or use,
or if any of its Access Details are lost, stolen, misused or become known by any other person.
14.3

Continuity

The Clearing Member shall procure that the Authorised Users shall comply with the terms of this Access
Agreement and shall ensure that only Authorised Users to whom valid Access Details have been issued will
access or use (or attempt to access or use) CDSClear Reporting API solution and that Access Details are at all
times kept confidential. If an Authorised User ceases to be authorised to act by the Clearing Member the
Clearing Member will immediately notify LCH SA by using the contact details provided for this purpose to the
Clearing Member by LCH SA from time to time. The Clearing Member shall ensure the Authorised User ceases

21

to access and use CDSClear Reporting API solution immediately it ceases to be authorised to act by the Clearing
Member.
LCH SA shall be entitled to suspend access to CDSClear Reporting API solution by the Clearing Member, suspend
and/or terminate access to CDSClear SFTP solution in respect of each Authorised User, and amend any or all
Access Details, in each case from time to time and without prior notice to the Clearing Member or any
Authorised User. Where LCH SA notifies the Clearing Member that it is suspending or terminating an
Authorised User's right to access CDSClear Reporting API solution the Clearing Member shall ensure that each
Authorised User ceases to access CDSClear Reporting API solution until, in the case of suspension, LCH SA
advises it that such Authorised User is no longer so suspended.

15 SECURITY REGARDING CDSCLEAR PORTFOLIO MARGIN CALCULATION APPLICATION
PROGRAMMING INTERFACE

The following Security and Authentication Policy defines the CDSClear Portfolio Margin Calculation Application
Programming Interface API (PMC API) security policies.
While signing the LCH SA Portal / PMC Request Form, the Clearing Members agree to comply with such Policy
as detailed below and as amended from time to time.

15.1

Security and authentication policy

Authentication policy
Clearing Members IDs are assigned to individual users. They are created by nominated member Super Users or
internal LCH SA business Super Users.
User authentication to the LCH SA Portal and its applications is two-factor.
1) A user ID and password will be required to login to the service
2) And a 2nd factor of authentication – based on source IP address (user’s computer location) is invoked
via a risk-based approach. i.e. users will be prompted for additional One-Time Access Code (sent to the
registered corporate email address) when the source IP in non-white listed or is form a different
location
Key Rules and Controls:
A named User ID and password are issued to each individual user. User IDs must not be shared and must only
be used by the named individual. User IDs must be named and not generic and associated with a recognised
corporate email account. 3rd party email addresses are not be allowed.
Passwords must conform to the following rules:
1)
2)
3)
4)
5)

Minimum 8 characters.
At least one upper case.
One number
Passwords cannot be re-used (remembers 17 recently used passwords)
Passwords must be changed on first login or after reset by LCH SA Security Admin teams

The access to the CDSClear PMC API requires a unique username and a password.

22

To log into CDSClear PMC API, the user shall enter his user name and password. The server authenticates the
user and the system grants access to the user in accordance with the specifications set out in the Request
Form.
User names will be provided by LCH SA on request of the Clearing Member. User names shall be meaningful
enough to uniquely identify the user. Very short names and generic names related to functions shall be
prohibited.
The initial password is provided by LCH SA for a fixed term. When user logs in for the first time, the user will be
requested to create a new password which can be changed at any time by the user.
15.2

Security and Back up Policy

CDSClear PMC API user sessions shall expire after a 30 minutes period of inactivity. The workstation which gives
access to the CDSClear PMC API services shall also be configured with a separate, shorter local time-out option
(e.g. Windows Screensaver).
Accounts that are not used for a period of 3 months will be made inactive and a further 3 months, deleted.
The Clearing Member shall have in place all necessary security measures and procedures to prevent any
unauthorised access to, or use of, CDSClear PMC API and CDSClear PMC API Content and the Clearing Member
shall immediately notify LCH SA in the event of any such unauthorised access or use, or if any Access Details are
lost, stolen, misused or become known by any person other than the relevant Authorised User.
In any case, the Clearing Member shall be responsible for the security and correct use of the credentials
provided to them by LCH SA. Any misuse of the credentials shall be the sole responsibility of the Clearing
Members.
The Clearing Member shall immediately notify LCH SA on becoming aware of any unauthorised access or use,
or if any of its Access Details are lost, stolen, misused or become known by any other person.
15.3

Continuity

The Clearing Member shall procure that the Authorised Users shall comply with the terms of this Access
Agreement and shall ensure that only Authorised Users to whom valid Access Details have been issued will
access or use (or attempt to access or use) the CDSClear PMC API and that Access Details are at all times kept
confidential. If an Authorised User ceases to be authorised to act by the Clearing Member the Clearing Member
will immediately notify LCH SA by using the contact details provided for this purpose to the Clearing Member
by LCH SA from time to time. The Clearing Member shall ensure the Authorised User ceases to access and use
the CDSClear PMC API immediately it ceases to be authorised to act by the Clearing Member.
LCH SA shall be entitled to suspend access to CDSClear PMC API by the Clearing Member, suspend and/or
terminate access to CDSClear PMC API in respect of each Authorised User, and amend any or all Access Details,
in each case from time to time and without prior notice to the Clearing Member or any Authorised User. Where
LCH SA notifies the Clearing Member that it is suspending or terminating an Authorised User's right to access
the CDSClear PMC API the Clearing Member shall ensure that each Authorised User ceases to access the
CDSClear PMC API until, in the case of suspension, LCH SA advises it that such Authorised User is no longer so
suspended.
15.4

Auditing

All account activity with the LCH SA Portal and its applications is logged. Logs include: user name, source IP
address, date, time, URL clicks and application action.
All changes to an individual access levels is tracked for audit purposes.

23

EXHIBIT P-3.2

Schedule 2
CLEARING ACCESS SOLUTIONS DESCRIPTION
The Services consist in the provision of a Clearing Access Solution, which consists of:
LCAP;
eCCW;
Web Fixed Income,
Network Services,
Collateral Management Services (“CMS”);
CDSClear Portfolio Margin Calculation Web tool (“PMC”);
CDSClear Portfolio Margin Calculation Application Programming Interface;
CDSClear Reporting application;
CDSClear Reporting Application Programming Interface
CDSClear Trade Management application;
CDSClear Backloading application;
CDSClear Compression application;
Web EGCP; and
CDSClear Reporting SFTP solution
as defined below, and/or a combination of them.
LCAP (Logical Certified Access Point): is the Logical Clearing Access Solution (hosted in LCH SA data centres) allowing
the Users to gain access to the Clearing Solution as described in Schedule 2 appendix 3.
eCCW: is the Clearing Access Solution allowing the Users to gain access to the Clearing Solution on Internet or over the
Network Services from its premises, as described in Schedule 2.
Web OTC or hereafter “Web Fixed Income”: is the electronic Clearing Access Solution provided by LCH SA for its Users
acting on the bonds and repos markets (public government debt) cleared by LCH SA.
Web EGCP: is the electronic Clearing Access Solution provided by LCH SA for its Users acting on the €GCPlus market
cleared by LCH SA.
CMS is a tool provided by LCH SA for its Users allowing them the management of the Collateral. “Collateral” shall
understood as the collateral identified on the Portal (as described in Annex 2 of the Appendix 5 of this Schedule 2 and
LCH SA’s website), from time to time as being eligible for lodgement and/or release utilising the Portal and in respect of
which the member has completed and has in place a current and valid Request Form which has been received by LCH
SA.
CDSClear Reporting application is a User Interface which allows Users of LCH SA CDSClear service to gain access to a full
suite of downloadable report files and sits with the LCH SA Portal.
CDSClear Trade Management application is a User Interface which allows Users of LCH SA CDSClear service to gain
access for real time information on their trade portfolios (bilateral and cleared trades) and sits with the LCH SA Portal.
CDSClear Backloading application is a User Interface which allows Users of LCH SA CDSClear service to have the ability
to select and upload trades for clearing for the Weekly Backloading cycle and sits with the LCH SA Portal.
CDSClear Compression application is a User Interface which allows Users of LCH SA CDSClear service to configure their
compression settings on their portfolios and sits with the LCH SA Portal. Users have several options of compression
frequency (daily or weekly) and the possibility to compress their trades at deskID level.
CDSClear Portfolio Margin Calculation (PMC) is a tool which allows Users of LCH SA CDSClear service to compute the
margin requirements for their portfolios and sits with the LCH SA Portal.
CDSClear Portfolio Margin Calculation Application Programming Interface (PMC API) is a programmatic interface
where Users of LCH SA CDSClear service can use scripts to access and download individual margin results.
1

LCH SA Portal is a single sign-on solution for various LCH SA applications (as described in Appendix 11 of this Schedule
2). Access to the LCH SA Portal is provided by LCH SA to Users of LCH SA CDSClear service over secured Internet.
CDSClear Reporting SFTP Solution is the Secure File Transfer Protocol interface allowing Users of LCH SA CDSClear
service to gain access to the member reporting service as described in Appendix 13 of this Schedule 2.
CDSClear Reporting Application Programming Interface (API) is a programmatic interface where Users of LCH SA
CDSClear service can use scripts to access and download individual reports.

This Schedule 2 is made of the following appendixes:
Appendix 1: Description of LCH SA eCCW Clearing Access Solution
Appendix 2: Description of LCH SA Web Fixed Income Clearing Access Solution
Appendix 3: Description of the LCAP solution
Appendix 4: Description of Network Services
Appendix 5: Description of CMS
Appendix 6: Description of CDSClear PMC tool
Appendix 7: Description of the CDSClear Reporting application
Appendix 8: Description of the CDSClear Trade Management application
Appendix 9: Description of the CDSClear Backloading application
Appendix 10: Description of the CDSClear Compression application
Appendix 11: Description of the LCH SA Portal
Appendix 12: Description of Web EGCP
Appendix 13: Description of the CDSClear Reporting SFTP Solution
Appendix 14: Description of the CDSClear Reporting API
Appendix 15: Description of the CDSClear Portfolio Margin Calculation API

2

APPENDIX 1: DESCRIPTION OF LCH SA eCCW
1.1 GENERAL PRINCIPLES

1.1.1

eCCW is a Graphical User Interface provided over Internet or over LCH SA network, by LCH SA for its Users, other
than Users of LCH SA CDSClear service, that enables them to interact with LCH SA Clearing Solution.

1.2 MANAGING PRINCIPLES

1.2.1

The access to the eCCW is delivered by LCH SA, after the Users have duly filled in and signed the LCH SA
adequate Request Form.

1.2.2

This Request Form shall be duly completed and signed by the Users and sent by registered letter to the
appropriate LCH SA interlocutor as set out on the Request Form.

1.2.3

The Internet access to the eCCW is managed via a Secure Access Card. The Users shall strictly comply with the
terms of use of the Secure Access Card as those terms are set out in Annex 1 “Secure Access Card management”,
security measures set out in Schedule 1 of this Agreement and the associated Documentation.

1.2.4

Via the eCCW, LCH SA provides the Users with the appropriate clearing data (files and real time data) as set out
in Annex 2 “Clearing Data to be accessed via eCCW “of this appendix.

1.2.5

Any Anomaly encountered regarding the proper use of the eCCW must be raised to LCH SA Customer Technical
Helpdesk (CTH) in compliance with the terms set out in Schedule 3 of this Agreement.

1.2.6

Any Changes required by the Users to LCH SA regarding the eCCW shall be notified by the Users to LCH SA by
filling in the appropriate Request Form available from LCH SA.

1.2.7

The costs regarding the provision of this Service are stipulated within the Request Form and are in accordance
with the costs mentioned within LCH SA effective fee grid.

1.3 ANNEX 1 : Secure Access Card Management

1.3.1

General Principles

1.3.1.1 A token, hereafter referred as either “Secure Access Card” aims at delivering to the Users a secured electronic
access to the following eCCW Clearing Access Solution.
1.3.1.2 The Secure Access Card is automatically provided by LCH SA as soon as the Users request to be granted access to
eCCW.

1.3.2

Managing principles

The managing principles for a “Secure Access Card” are detailed hereafter:

1.3.3

In order to be granted access to eCCW, the Users shall request their LCH SA to provide the appropriate Request
Form. Once this form is duly completed and signed by the Users, LCH SA takes the necessary actions to give the
Users eCCW access in coordination with CTH.

3

1.3.4

The CTH is in charge of allocating a package of Secure Access Cards in accordance with the request issued by the
Users through the Request Form. A package of Secure Access Cards is composed of:
a production Secure Access Card
an acceptance Secure Access Card
a back-up Secure Access Card (on request only)

1.3.5

The EMSA shall distribute eCCW Secure Access Cards to the relevant eCCW Users.

1.3.6

The Users shall comply with the instructions provided by LCH SA in the relevant documentation in order to
activate the Secure Access Card.

1.3.7

The following events shall be immediately communicated to LCH SA by the EMSA in order to update Users’
accesses:
leavers (eg. resignation, dismissal, any cause of leaving)
change of function
re-assignation of eCCW Secure Access Cards
loss of token or activation of eCCW Secure Access Cards following de-synchronisation or loss of PIN code.

1.3.8

In case a Secure Access Card is lost or broken, it should be notified immediately by the EMSA to LCH SA in order
to for the Customer Technical Helpdesk to allocate a new card to the User once the relevant change request form
would have been sent back.

1.3.9

The Secure Access Card is to be strictly used for eCCW connection only.

1.3.10 The Secure Access Card is to be charged to the Users by LCH SA according to the fee grid.

1.4
1

ANNEX 2: Clearing data to be accessed via eCCW

CASH CLEARING FILES

PRODUCTION FILES

TEST FILES

Trade leg reconciliation (for CMF) - this file is charged

POS.SP***TC

POS.SH***TC

Trade leg reconciliation (for TMF) - this file is charged – on LCAP only

POS.SP***TT

POS.SH***TT

Position Result Third Resume (PR3)

POS.SP***S3

POS.SH***S3

EP********ccSIFday

EH********ccSIFday

EP********ccBIFday

EH********ccBIFday

Margin account result

PB.SP***B1

PB.SH***B1

Public SPAN

SPAN.SPXXXBA
SPAN.SPXXXBE

SPAN.SHXXXBA
SPAN.SHXXXBE

Corporate Events File

SPAN.SPXXXOA
SPAN.SPXXXOB

SPAN.SHXXXOA
SPAN.SHXXXOB

Cash Static Data (morning)

EPPUBLICXXLCCD02day

EHPUBLICXXLCCD02day

Cash Static Data (evening)

EPPUBLICXXLCCD01day

EHPUBLICXXLCCD01day

Cash Static Data (morning) only for Luxembourg

EPPUBLICXXLUCD02day

EHPUBLICXXLUCD02day

Cash Static Data (evening) only for Luxembourg

EPPUBLICXXLUCD01day

EHPUBLICXXLUCD01day

Position Report (for TMF)
Cash Margin Report (for TMF)
Add-ons Margin Report (for TMF)

EP000*****TCPRnnqqq
EP000*****TCMRnnqqq
EP000*****TCAM00qqq

Settlement Information File (SIF)
cc= BE/ FR/ NL/PT/LU
Buy-In Information File (BIF)
cc= BE/ FR/ NL/PT/LU

2

EH000*****TCPRnnqqq
EH000*****TCMRnnqqq
EH000*****TCAM00qqq

DERIVATIVES CLEARING FILES

Private Matif positions & performance bond

POS.FP***S1
POS.FP***S2
POS.FP***S3
PB.FP***B1

4

POS.FH***S1
POS.FH***S2
POS.FH***S3
PB.FP***B1

Public Matif SPAN

SPAN.FPXXXBA
SPAN.FPXXXBB
SPAN.FPXXXBC

SPAN.FHXXXBA
SPAN.FHXXXBB
SPAN.FHXXXBC

Private Monep positions & performance bond

POS.OP***S1
POS.OP***S2
POS.OP***S3
PB.OP***B3

POS.OH***S1
POS.OH***S2
POS.OH***S3
PB.OP***B3

Daily operations Monep (all products) - this file is charged

POS.OP***J0
POS.OP***J1
POS.OP***J2

POS.OH***J0
POS.OH***J1
POS.OH***J2

Daily operations Monep (Dutch products and trading fees all derivatives clearing
segments) - this file is charged

POS.OP***J3

POS.OH***J3

Public Monep SPAN

SPAN.OPXXXBD

SPAN.OHXXXBD

Derivatives instrument characteristics for the current business date (morning)

EPPUBLICXXLCDD0day

EHPUBLICXXLCDD01day

Derivatives instrument characteristics for the current business date (intra-day)

EPPUBLICXXLCDI01day

EHPUBLICXXLCDI01day

Derivatives clearing elements

EPPUBLICXXLCDC01day

EHPUBLICXXLCDC01day

Derivatives open positions

EPPUBLICXXLCDP01day
EPPUBLICXXLCDP02day
EPPUBLICXXLCDP03day
EPPUBLICXXLCDP04day

EHPUBLICXXLCDP01day
EHPUBLICXXLCDP02day
EHPUBLICXXLCDP03day
EHPUBLICXXLCDP04day

Derivatives exercise

EPPUBLICXXLCDE01day
EPPUBLICXXLCDE02day

EHPUBLICXXLCDE01day
EHPUBLICXXLCDE02day

Underlying cash closing price

EPPUBLICXXLCCC01day

EHPUBLICXXLCCC01day

Position Report (for TMF)
Derivatives Margin Report (for TMF)
Add-ons Margin Report (for TMF)

EP000*****TDPRnnqqq
EP000*****TDMRnnqqq
EP000*****TDAM00qqq

EP000*****TDPRnnqqq
EP000*****TDMRnnqqq
EP000*****TDAM00qqq

5

LCH SA

2

APPENDIX 2: DESCRIPTION OF WEB FIXED INCOME

2.1

GENERAL PRINCIPLES

2.1.1

Web FIXED INCOME is an electronic Clearing Access Solution provided by LCH SA for its Users
trading on the bonds and repos markets (public government debt) cleared by LCH SA.

2.1.2

Web FIXED INCOME grants Users secured access to view and download the data set out in
Annex 2 of this Appendix.

2.2

MANAGING PRINCIPLES

2.2.1

The access to the Web FIXED INCOME is delivered by LCH SA, after the Users have duly filled in
and signed the LCH SA adequate Request Form

2.2.2

This Request Form shall be duly completed and signed by the Users and sent by registered
letter to the appropriate LCH SA interlocutor as set out on the Request Form.

2.2.3

The access to the Web FIXED INCOME is managed via a Secure Access Card. The Users shall
strictly comply with the terms of use of the Secure Access Card as those terms are set out in
clause 2.2 of this appendix, security measures set out in Schedule 1 of this Agreement and the
associated Documentation.

2.2.4

The access to the Web FIXED INCOME can also be managed via the implementation of a push
or pull solution (hereafter “Push/Pull Solution”), on request of the Users. Either the Users
connects to the Appropriate Network and pulls the Web FIXED INCOME files onto its
information system; or LCH SA pushes the Web FIXED INCOME files on to the Clearing
Member’s information system via internet.

2.2.5

LCH SA offers to its Users two technical solutions to get access to the Push / Pull Solution:
either a PGP solution (encrypted), or
a public solution (non encrypted solution).

The choice between these two solutions remains under the sole responsibility of the Users. Each
User declares that he has the accurate knowledge to assess the consequences each solution may
generate. In this context, the Users acknowledge and agree that LCH SA would not suffer any
liability regarding the consequences associated with the choice described above and notably
where the Users opt for the public solution.
Further to clause 13 of the Access Agreement and notwithstanding anything to the contrary, in no
circumstances whatsoever will LCH SA be liable for any direct or indirect loss or damage including
without limitation, loss of data or loss of profits arising out of, or in connection with, the use of
the public solution. Any reliance the User places on information received through the public
solution is therefore at its own risk.

2.2.6

Via the Web FIXED INCOME, LCH SA provides the Users with the appropriate clearing data (files)
as set out in Annex 2 “Clearing Data to be accessed via Web FIXED INCOME “.

6

LCH SA

2.2.7

The following events shall be immediately communicated to LCH SA Account Managers by the
Users Web FIXED INCOME administrator (MSA) in order to update the Users’ accesses to the
Web FIXED INCOME:
leavers (eg.resignation, dismissal, any cause of leaving);
change of function;
re-assignation of Secure Access Card;
loss of Secure Access Card or activation of Secure Access Card following the synchronisation
or loss of PIN code.

2.2.8

Any Anomaly encountered regarding the proper use of the Web FIXED INCOME must be raised
to LCH SA Customer Technical Helpdesk (CTH) in compliance with the terms set out in
Schedule 3 of this Agreement.

2.2.9

Any Changes required by the Users to LCH SA regarding the Web FIXED INCOME shall be
notified by the Users to LCH SA by filling in the adequate Request Form “Web FIXED INCOME
Change Request Form” attached in Annex 1 of this Appendix.
2.3

2.4

2.5

ANNEX 1 : Secure Access Card Management

General Principles

2.4.1

A token, hereafter referred as “Secure Access Card” aims at delivering to the Users a secured
electronic access to the Web FIXED INCOME Clearing Access Solutions.

2.4.2

The Secure Access Card” is automatically provided by LCH SA as soon as the Users request to
be granted access to Web FIXED INCOME.

Managing principles

2.5.1

The Secure Access Card enables access to the Web FIXED INCOME production interface.

2.5.2

The Secure Access Card is provided to the Users when they issue a request to LCH SA CTH in
order to be granted access to the Web FIXED INCOME platform via Internet.

2.5.3

The Users may also wish to be granted access to the FIXED INCOME files via a “push or pull”
solution, which consists in granting access to fixed income files via FTP network

2.5.4

The Users shall specify in the Request Form which Clearing Access Solution they require and
also give details on the Users:
Names
Address (site, country)
E-mail address
Phone number
Fax number

2.5.5

LCH SA CTH is in charge of providing the Users with the following relevant and sufficient
information to have access to the Web FIXED INCOME production interface:
Pin code
Password
Instructions for use.

2.5.6

The Users shall comply with the instructions provided by LCH SA in the relevant
documentation.

7

LCH SA

2.5.7

Secure Access Cards operate for a limited period of time (3 years in average). It will therefore
be replaced at LCH SA initiative in due course.

2.5.8

Any Anomaly or problem encountered by the Users regarding the Web FIXED INCOME access
via the Secure Access Card shall be raised to LCH SA CTH.

2.5.9

The costs regarding the Web FIXED INCOME Clearing Access Solution are the ones set out in
the effective LCH SA fee grid.

2.6

2.6.1

The Web FIXED INCOME solution gives access to the Users to the following data:






2.6.2

ANNEX 2: Clearing data to be accessed via Web FIXED INCOME

in real-time :
daily operations (validated and refused) recorded by LCH SA during the day
all the instructions that are still unmatched reported every 30 min
at the end of day :
reporting after batch on file reports
08.00 next morning (Paris time) :
financial report
monthly :
invoicing details with possibility to have a view over 12 months

Hereunder is the list of files provided via the Web FIXED INCOME Clearing Access Solution:

Report name

Technical
name

PRODUCTION: description

TEST: description

real time trade report

TRAD

XXPRYYYYMMDDTRAD.txt

XXTSYYYYMMDDTRAD.txt

initial margin

TRDG

XXPRYYYYMMDDTRDG.txt

XXTSYYYYMMDDTRDG.txt

Fails

SUSP

XXPRYYYYMMDDSUSP.txt

XXTSYYYYMMDDSUSP.txt

regularisations

REGU

XXPRYYYYMMDDMARG.txt

XXTSYYYYMMDDMARG.txt

Positions and margin s

MARG

XXPRYYYYMMDDMARG.txt

XXTSYYYYMMDDMARG.txt

Bonds and Repo financial statement

BRFS

XXPRYYYYMMDDBRFS.txt

XXTSYYYYMMDDBRFS.txt

detail of net instructions

DNET

XXPRYYYYMMDDDNET.txt

XXTSYYYYMMDDDNET.txt

trades of the day

DTRD

XXPRYYYYMMDDDTRD.txt

XXTSYYYYMMDDDTRD.txt

securities settlement prices

CVAL

XXPRYYYYMMDDCVAL.txt

XXTSYYYYMMDDCVAL.txt

detail of cleanet operations

KOND

XXPRYYYYMMDDKOND.txt

XXTSYYYYMMDDKOND.txt

Euro Financial statement

SFEU

XXPRYYYYMMDDSFEU.txt
EP0000XXPRZZZZ00(Day) (XML edition)

Intra-day Euro Financial statement

SFE1

XXPRYYYYMMDDSFE1.txt
EP0000XXPRZZZZ01(Day) (XML edition)

Forward repos

FORW

XXPR YYYYMMDDFORW.HTML
XXPR YYYYMMDDFORW.TXT

XXTSYYYYMMDDSFEU.txt
EH0000XXTSZZZZ00(Day) (XML
edition)
XXTSYYYYMMDDSFE1.txt
EH0000XXTSZZZZ01(Day) (XML
edition)
XXTS YYYYMMDDFORW.HTML
XXTS YYYYMMDDFORW.TXT

BOND LIST

BOND

XXPRYYYYMMDDBOND.txt

XXTSYYYYMMDDBOND.txt

Detail of same day instructions

SDRD

XXPRYYYYMMDDSDRD.TXT

XXTSYYYYMMDDSDRD.TXT

*** Only available for the Spanish government bonds clearing solution

8

LCH SA

3
3.1

APPENDIX 3: DESCRIPTION OF THE LCAP
GENERAL PRINCIPLES

The LCAP is the Logical Certified Access Point which is a clearing gateway hosted in LCH SA data centres,
enabling the Users to gain access to LCH SA Clearing Solution.
The LCAP is dedicated to the clearing services; therefore, no trading activity transits on a LCAP.
3.2

COMPOSITION OF THE LCAP

The LCAP supplies the Users with certified access points to the Clearing Solution enabling the management
of incoming and outgoing data flows:
- Real time message flows, on the basis of exchange protocol established by LCH SA (MMTP),
- File flows, on the basis of international file transfer protocol (FTP).
LCAP handles the certification, and storage of data interchanged between the Users and LCH SA.
The LCAP is single-platform (live or testing), single function station and each LCAP can handle five
subscribers (also referred as “SLE”s). It can be used both for cash and derivatives markets.
eCCW
Web Server

eCCW

@
HTTPS

LCH.Clearnet
Clearing System

Clearing
Application

MMTP

Netscreen

Secured IP network

Netscreen

FTP

Encryption Managed
VPN Gateway Router

Managed Encryption
Router VPN Gateway
MM

TP

F/S

Member site

3.3

LCH.Clearnet DC

LCAP
Gateway

MANAGING PRINCIPLES

3.3.1

Whenever Users require to be given access to the Clearing Solution, the appropriate Request
Form, available from LCH SA Account Managers, shall be duly completed and signed by the
Users and sent by registered letter to the appropriate LCH SA interlocutor as set out on the
Request Form.

3.3.2

The LCAP provides the Users with the appropriate clearing data (real time messages, files) as
set out in Annex 1 “Clearing Data to be accessed via LCAP“.

9

LCH SA

3.3.3

Any Anomaly encountered regarding the proper use of the LCAP must be raised to LCH SA
Customer Technical Helpdesk (CTH) in compliance with the terms set out in Schedule 3 of this
Agreement.

3.3.4

Any Changes required by the Users to LCH SA regarding the LCAP shall be notified by the Users
to the appropriate LCH SA interlocutor by filling in the relevant Request Form available from
LCH SA Account Manager.

3.3.5

The invoicing principles applicable to the LCAP Clearing Solution are similar to those set out in
Appendix 4 “Network Services”.

3.4

ANNEX 1: Clearing data to be accessed via LCAP

CLEARING FILES:
1

CASH CLEARING FILES

PRODUCTION FILES

TEST FILES

POS.SP***S3

POS.SH***S3

PB.SP***B1

PB.SH***B1

EP********ccSIFday

EH********ccSIFday

EP********ccBIFday

EH********ccBIFday

Trade leg reconciliation (for CMF) - this file is charged

POS.SP***TC

POS.SH***TC

Trade leg reconciliation (for TMF) - this file is charged – on LCAP only

POS.SP***TT

POS.SH***TT

Public SPAN

SPAN.SPXXXBA
SPAN.SPXXXBE

SPAN.SHXXXBA
SPAN.SHXXXBE

Corporate Events

SPAN.SPXXXOA
SPAN.SPXXXOB

SPAN.SHXXXOA
SPAN.SHXXXOB

Instrument characteristics current business date (morning)

EPPUBLICXXLCCD02day

EHPUBLICXXLCCD02day

Instrument characteristics current business date (evening)

EPPUBLICXXLCCD01day

EHPUBLICXXLCCD01day

Instrument characteristics current business date (morning) only for Luxembourg

EPPUBLICXXLUCD02day

EHPUBLICXXLUCD02day

Instrument characteristics current business date (evening) only for Luxembourg

EPPUBLICXXLUCD01day

EHPUBLICXXLUCD01day

Position Report (for TMF)
Cash Margin Report (for TMF)
Add-ons Margin Report (for TMF)

EP000*****TCPRnnqqq
EP000*****TCMRnnqqq
EP000*****TCAM00qqq

EH000*****TCPRnnqqq
EH000*****TCMRnnqqq
EH000*****TCAM00qqq

Private Matif positions & performance bond

POS.FP***S1
POS.FP***S2
POS.FP***S3
PB.FP***B1

POS.FH***S1
POS.FH***S2
POS.FH***S3
PB.FP***B1

Public Matif SPAN

SPAN.FPXXXBA
SPAN.FPXXXBB
SPAN.FPXXXBC

SPAN.FHXXXBA
SPAN.FHXXXBB
SPAN.FHXXXBC

Private Monep positions & performance bond

POS.OP***S1
POS.OP***S2
POS.OP***S3
PB.OP***B3

POS.OH***S1
POS.OH***S2
POS.OH***S3
PB.OP***B3

Daily operations Monep (all products) - this file is charged

POS.OP***J0
POS.OP***J1
POS.OP***J2

POS.OH***J0
POS.OH***J1
POS.OH***J2

POS.OP***J3

POS.OH***J3

Private positions

Settlement Connect
cc= BE/ FR/ NL/PT/LU

2

DERIVATIVES CLEARING FILES

Daily operations Monep (Dutch products and trading fees all derivatives clearing
segments) - this file is charged
Public Monep SPAN

SPAN.OPXXXBD

SPAN.OHXXXBD

Derivatives instrument characteristics for the current business date (morning)

EPPUBLICXXLCDD0day

EHPUBLICXXLCDD01day

Derivatives instrument characteristics for the current business date (intra-day)

EPPUBLICXXLCDI01day

EHPUBLICXXLCDI01day

Derivatives clearing elements

EPPUBLICXXLCDC01day

EHPUBLICXXLCDC01day

10

LCH SA

Derivatives open positions

EPPUBLICXXLCDP01day
EPPUBLICXXLCDP02day
EPPUBLICXXLCDP03day
EPPUBLICXXLCDP04day

EHPUBLICXXLCDP01day
EHPUBLICXXLCDP02day
EHPUBLICXXLCDP03day
EHPUBLICXXLCDP04day

Derivatives exercise

EPPUBLICXXLCDE01day
EPPUBLICXXLCDE02day

EHPUBLICXXLCDE01day
EHPUBLICXXLCDE02day

Underlying cash closing price

EPPUBLICXXLCCC01day

EHPUBLICXXLCCC01day

Position Report (for TMF)
Derivatives Margin Report (for TMF)
Add-ons Margin Report (for TMF)

EP000*****TDPRnnqqq
EP000*****TDMRnnqqq
EP000*****TDAM00qqq

EP000*****TDPRnnqqq
EP000*****TDMRnnqqq
EP000*****TDAM00qqq

CREDIT DEFAULT SWAP (CDS) FILES
Trade management reports

Production

Clearing Eligibility Report

CCER

Matching and Eligibility Report

CMEL

Bilateral Trades Report

CBTR

Cleared Trades Report

CCTR

TIW Operations Report

CCLR

Restructuring Matched Pairs

CMRP

Cross Trades Report

CXTR

Compression Result File

CCPR

CER Result File

RCER

Variation Margin Report House

CVMH

Variation Margin Report Client

CVMC

Test

EUA1

EUA2

EPXXXXXXXXCCERnnqqq.csv

EHXXXXXXXXCCERnnqqq.csv

EPXXXXXXXXCMELnnqqq.csv
EPXXXXXXXXCMELnnqqq.xml
EPXXXXXXXXCBTRnnqqq.xml
EPXXXXXXXXCBTRnnqqq.csv
EPXXXXXXXXCCTRnnqqq.xml
EPXXXXXXXXCCTRnnqqq.csv
EPXXXXXXXXCCLRnnqqq.csv

EHXXXXXXXXCMELnnqqq.csv
EHXXXXXXXXCMELnnqqq.xml
EHXXXXXXXXCBTRnnqqq.xml
EHXXXXXXXXCBTRnnqqq.csv
EHXXXXXXXXCCTRnnqqq.xml
EHXXXXXXXXCCTRnnqqq.csv
EHXXXXXXXXCCLRnnqqq.csv

EPXXXXXXXXCMRPnnqqq.xml
EPXXXXXXXXCMRPnnqqq.csv
EPXXXXXXXXCXTRnnqqq.csv

EHXXXXXXXXCMRPnnqqq.xml
EHXXXXXXXXCMRPnnqqq.csv
EHXXXXXXXXCXTRnnqqq.csv

EPXXXXXXXXCCPRnnqqq.csv

EHXXXXXXXXCCPRnnqqq.csv

EPXXXXXXXXRCERnnqqq.csv

EHXXXXXXXXRCERnnqqq.csv

EPXXXXXXXXCVMHnnqqq.csv
EPXXXXXXXXCVMHnnqqq.xml
EPXXXXXXXXCVMCnnqqq.csv
EPXXXXXXXXCVMCnnqqq.xml

EHXXXXXXXXCVMHnnqqq.csv
EHXXXXXXXXCVMHnnqqq.xml
EHXXXXXXXXCVMCnnqqq.csv
EHXXXXXXXXCVMCnnqqq.xml

Public reports

Production

Open Interest

COIN

Product Index

CPDI

Product Single Names

CPDS

Event File - Restructuring

CEVR

Event File - Rename

CEVN

Event File - Failure to Pay / Bankruptcy

CEVF

Event File - Succession

CEVS

EPPUBLICXXCOINnnqqq.csv
EPPUBLICXXCOINnnqqq.xml
EPPUBLICXXCPDInnqqq.csv
EPPUBLICXXCPDInnqqq.xml
EPPUBLICXXCPDSnnqqq.csv
EPPUBLICXXCPDSnnqqq.xml
EPPUBLICXXCEVRnnqqq.csv
EPPUBLICXXCEVXnnqqq.xml
EPPUBLICXXCEVNnnqqq.csv
EPPUBLICXXCEVXnnqqq.xml
EPPUBLICXXCEVFnnqqq.csv
EPPUBLICXXCEVXnnqqq.xml
EPPUBLICXXCEVSnnqqq.csv
EPPUBLICXXCEVXnnqqq.xml

Risk management reports

Production

Margin Result House

CMRG

Margin Result Client

CMRC

Risk Portfolio

CPTF

EPXXXXXXXXCMRGnnqqq.csv
EPXXXXXXXXCMRGnnqqq.xml
EPXXXXXXXXCMRCnnqqq.csv
EPXXXXXXXXCMRCnnqqq.xml
EPXXXXXXXXCPTFnnqqq.csv
EPXXXXXXXXCPTFnnqqq.xml

11

Test

EUA1

EUA2

EHPUBLICXXCOINnnqqq.csv
EHPUBLICXXCOINnnqqq.xml
EHPUBLICXXCPDInnqqq.csv
EHPUBLICXXCPDInnqqq.xml
EHPUBLICXXCPDSnnqqq.csv
EHPUBLICXXCPDSnnqqq.xml
EHPUBLICXXCEVRnnqqq.csv
EHPUBLICXXCEVXnnqqq.xml
EHPUBLICXXCEVNnnqqq.csv
EHPUBLICXXCEVXnnqqq.xml
EHPUBLICXXCEVFnnqqq.csv
EHPUBLICXXCEVXnnqqq.xml
EHPUBLICXXCEVSnnqqq.csv
EHPUBLICXXCEVXnnqqq.xml

Test

EUA1

EHXXXXXXXXCMRGnnqqq.csv
EHXXXXXXXXCMRGnnqqq.xml
EHXXXXXXXXCMRCnnqqq.csv
EHXXXXXXXXCMRCnnqqq.xml
EHXXXXXXXXCPTFnnqqq.csv
EHXXXXXXXXCPTFnnqqq.xml

EUA2

LCH SA

Simulation reports

Production

Simulation Matching and Eligibility Report

SMEL

Simulation Member Margin Result House

SMRG

Simulation Risk Portfolio

SPTF

EPXXXXXXXXSMELnnqqq.csv
EPXXXXXXXXSMELnnqqq.xml
EPXXXXXXXXSMRGnnqqq.csv
EPXXXXXXXXSMRGnnqqq.xml
EPXXXXXXXXSPTFnnqqq.csv
EPXXXXXXXXSPTFnnqqq.xml

Treasury/Collateral reports

Production

AC0101E – Invoicing cash call report (fees)

CNMC

AC0102E – Specific default fund market report

CNMC

AC0102E – Specific market margin report

CNMC

AC0102E – Specific market non-margin report

CNMC

AC0103E – Global cash call report

CNMC

AC0104E – Daily accounting report

CNMC

AC0105E – Monthly accounting report

CNMC

AC0106E – Interests monthly report

CNMC

AC0110E – Financial and global situation

CNMC

AC0111E – History of withdrawal & deposit requests

CNMC

AC0112E – Detail of regularisations report

CNMC

AC0113E – Net payment position document

CNMC

AC0126E – Monthly interest scales report

CNMC

AC0129E - CDS Default fund contribution

CNMC

Collateral Value Situation Report

CCVS

Test

EUA1

EHXXXXXXXXSMELnnqqq.csv
EHXXXXXXXXSMELnnqqq.xml
EHXXXXXXXXSMRGnnqqq.csv
EHXXXXXXXXSMRGnnqqq.xml
EHXXXXXXXXSPTFnnqqq.csv
EHXXXXXXXXSPTFnnqqq.xml

Test

EUA1

EP000XXXXX101A00day.xml
EP000XXXXXCNMCnnday.txt
EP000XXXXX102A00day.xml
EP000XXXXXCNMCnnday.txt
EP000XXXXX102B00day.xml
EP000XXXXXCNMCnnday.txt
EP000XXXXX102C00day.xml
EP000XXXXXCNMCnnday.txt
EP000XXXXX103A00day.xml
EP000XXXXXCNMCnnday.txt
EP000XXXXX104A00day.xml
EP000XXXXXCNMCnnday.txt
EP000XXXXX105A00day.xml
EP000XXXXXCNMCnnday.txt
EP000XXXXXCNMCnnday.txt

EH000XXXXX101A00day.xml
EH000XXXXXCNMCnnday.txt
EH000XXXXX102A00day.xml
EH000XXXXXCNMCnnday.txt
EH000XXXXX102B00day.xml
EH000XXXXXCNMCnnday.txt
EH000XXXXX102C00day.xml
EH000XXXXXCNMCnnday.txt
EH000XXXXX103A00day.xml
EH000XXXXXCNMCnnday.txt
EH000XXXXX104A00day.xml
EH000XXXXXCNMCnnday.txt
EH000XXXXX105A00day.xml
EH000XXXXXCNMCnnday.txt
EH000XXXXXCNMCnnday.txt

EP000XXXXX110A00day.xml
EP000XXXXXCNMCnnday.txt
EP000XXXXX111A00day.xml
EP000XXXXXCNMCnnday.txt
EP000XXXXX112A00day.xml
EP000XXXXXCNMCnnday.txt
EP000XXXXXCNMCnnday.txt

EH000XXXXX110A00day.xml
EH000XXXXXCNMCnnday.txt
EH000XXXXX111A00day.xml
EH000XXXXXCNMCnnday.txt
EH000XXXXX112A00day.xml
EH000XXXXXCNMCnnday.txt
EH000XXXXXCNMCnnday.txt

EP000XXXXX126A00day.xml
EP000XXXXXCNMCnnday.txt
EP000XXXXXCNMCnnday.txt

EH000XXXXX126A00day.xml
EH000XXXXXCNMCnnday.txt
EH000XXXXXCNMCnnday.txt

EPXXXXXXXXCCVSnnqqq.csv
EPXXXXXXXXCCVSnnqqq.xml

EHXXXXXXXXCCVSnnqqq.csv
EHXXXXXXXXCCVSnnqqq.xml

12

EUA2

EUA2

LCH SA

4
4.1

4.2

APPENDIX 4: DESCRIPTION OF NETWORK SERVICES
NETWORK SERVICES PRINCIPLES

4.1.1

LCH SA, through its Subcontractors, shall provide the Users with an end to end managed and
secured IP network between the Users sites and LCH SA data centres.

4.1.2

LCH SA Network Services is compliant with the best security and business continuity practices.

4.1.3

The Users shall select one of LCH SA network solutions as detailed in the relevant Request
Form.

MANAGING PRINCIPLES

4.2.1

In order to guarantee full resiliency, the Network Services shall meet the below principles:
o Resilient network equipments (2x[CPE router + switch + VPN gateway]) supplied and
managed by the network Subcontractor, with automatic mechanisms of failover ;
o Resilient Users’ access from Users’ premises to PoP’s provider, using dual carriers;
o Dual POP per city;
o Fully Meshed Backbone;
o Resilient central access in LCH SA DataCenters (DC / DR).

4.2.2

The connectivity minimum bandwidth shall be of 2Mbps (which can handle a maximum of 9
SLEs).

4.2.3

All clearing flows (real-time messaging and files transfers) are encrypted at IP level, using VPN
gateway supplied and managed by the Subcontractor (end-to-end IPsec tunnelling).

4.2.4

The Users may choose to mutualise their Network Services to access both LCH SA Limited and
S.A clearing services.
In that case, the User shall elect the LCH SA group entity to whom it will order the Network
Services. The entity selected will invoice the User the fees corresponding to the Network Services
allowing it to access both SA and Limited clearing services.

4.2.5

Where a User has ordered its Network Services to LCH SA Limited in order to access both LCH
SA Group entities, and faces any difficulty to access LCH SA SA, the User will however benefit
from the Support Services described in Schedule 3 of this Agreement.

4.2.6

Network Services Acceptance Procedure: following the implementation of the first production
LCAP (or test LCAP if the Users do not order any production LCAP), LCH SA will in cooperation
with the Users, execute a set of acceptance tests to assess if the Network Services along with
the LCAP (either test or production when relevant) are operational (hereafter referred as
“Operational Service” date). After the completion of the acceptance tests, LCH SA will send to
the Users an e-mail to be construed as an acceptance test certificate. If the Users do not
contest this acceptance test certificate within 7 Calendar Days, the Network Services along
with the LCAP will be deemed to be accepted and LCH SA will therefore be entitled to invoice
the Users as from the Operational Service date.

13

LCH SA

Clearing Systems

2-10Mbps resilient
& secured access

1GB resilient &
secured access
Managed
VPN routers

Clearing Applications
Active
circuit
POP

Passive
circuit

Managed
VPN routers

POP

LCH.Clearnet DC

Secured
IP network
Clearing Systems

Member site
Managed
VPN routers

LCH.Clearnet DR

End-to-end secured & resilient managed connection

4.3

APPLICABLE USE POLICY

4.3.1

SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY

This Acceptable Use Policy (“AUP”) provides a code of conduct applicable to all entity using the Network
Services, including the Users and the network services providers’ other customers and their employees,
agents, contractors, affiliates, subsidiaries, and, if applicable, clients (all together referred as Users) in
order to (i) protect all Users and assure them of the consistent, high level of trust necessary for them to
use the Network Services safely, securely and effectively; and (ii) deter the abuse or misuse of the Network
Services by any User.

4.3.2

ACCEPTABLE USE

Each User shall use the Network Services to conduct its business, publish and access content, and provide
access to applications in accordance with this AUP and any applicable terms and conditions of this
Agreement.

4.3.3

UNACCEPTABLE USE
4.3.3.1

Illegal Use

Users are prohibited from using the Network Services to commit or aid in the commission of any crime,
fraud, or act which violates any applicable local, national, or international law or regulation.
4.3.3.2

Prohibited Content

Users are prohibited from using the Network Services to transmit, distribute, disseminate, publish, or
store:

14

LCH SA
any material in violation of any applicable local, national, or international law or regulation;
material that infringes any patent, trademark, trade secret, copyright, or other intellectual
property right of any Party;
material that is defamatory, abusive, or harassing; or that threatens or encourages bodily harm,
destruction of property, or infringement of the lawful rights of any Party; or otherwise constitutes
an illegal threat;
material that violates the privacy of any Party as protected by applicable local, national, or
international law or regulation;
material containing software viruses, worms, Trojan horses, time bombs, cancelbots, or other
harmful or deleterious computer code, or any computer code, files, or programs designed to
disrupt; destroy; disable; invade, gain unauthorized access to; or corrupt, observe, or modify
without authorization, any data; network transmissions; software; computing or network devices;
or telecommunications equipment;
unsolicited or unauthorized advertising, promotional materials, bulk email, or chain letters.
4.3.3.3

Eavesdropping

Users are prohibited from the unauthorized interception or monitoring of any data or messages
transmitted over the Network.
4.3.3.4

Unauthorized access

Users are prohibited from employing the Network Services to access any computer, network, or data
without authorization or in a manner that exceeds authorization for any purpose, including but not limited
to:
retrieve, alter, or destroy data;
probe, scan or test the vulnerability of a system or network; or
breach or defeat system or network security measures such as authentication,
authorization, confidentiality, intrusion detection, or monitoring.
4.3.3.5

Impersonation and forgery

Users are prohibited from:
impersonating any Party or entity by adding, removing, or altering header information of
Network, email, or other messages transmitted over the Network;
transmitting over the Network messages that have been electronically signed using a fraudulently
obtained public key certificate or with a forged electronic signature; or
using the Network Services to commit any other form of forgery or illegal or unauthorized
impersonation.
4.3.3.6

Malicious disruption

Users are prohibited from interfering with or disrupting (i) the business operations, service, or function of
the Network, any User, or any computer, host, network, or telecommunications device; or (ii) the
legitimate use of the Network Services by any User including by deliberate attempts to overwhelm an
application, computer system, network device, or network.
4.3.3.7

Security auditing, assessments, penetration tests

15

LCH SA
Users are prohibited from conducting security audits, assessments, and penetration tests of the Network.
4.3.3.8

Misuse of CPE

Users shall not tamper with or attempt to gain unauthorized access to CPE (routers, cables, connectors).

4.3.4

CONFIDENTIALITY
4.3.4.1

Confidential Information

Each User shall hold in confidence any information it receives from LCH SA or any Clearing Access Solution
Third Party Provider related to the security and architecture of the Network Services, including but not
limited to: Network routing information, addresses, device configurations, topology, host names, system
configurations, security access codes, encryption and authentication keys, passwords, controls, processes,
procedures, and safeguards. Users shall not disclose this information except on a need-to-know basis and
only to employees, agents, subcontractors, or other third parties who are contractually bound to nondisclosure obligations.
4.3.4.2

Disclosure

LCH SA reserves the right to disclose information relating to Users’ activities that may be in violation of this
AUP:
to law enforcement, regulatory, or other agencies in response to lawful requests including,
without limitation, as required by any securities exchange or regulatory or governmental body to
which a User is subject;
to the extent required by law or for the purposes of judicial process; or
to other Users to protect the rights, property, and operations of the Network Services, and the
public including, without limitation, the right to notify a User of any event, condition, or activity,
of which LCH SA is aware, potentially affecting the security or operations of said Users’ computer
networks and systems.

4.3.5

MONITORING/ENFORCEMENT
4.3.5.1

Network Usage Monitoring

LCH SA reserves the right to monitor all usage of the Network for purposes of Network management,
performance management, capacity planning, and security monitoring and management. Usage
monitoring may include:
monitoring (i) source and destination addresses, protocol type, size and other attributes of
individual network packets other than content, and (ii) network routes traversed by individual
packets within the Network as necessary to detect potential, incipient, or actual security
breaches, intrusions, attacks, or malicious code;
using devices and techniques such as network intrusion detection, host intrusion detection, and
system integrity auditing to inspect packet contents for the presence of software viruses, worms,
Trojan horses, time bombs, cancelbots, or other harmful or deleterious computer code, or any
computer code, files, or programs designed to disrupt; destroy; disable; invade; gain unauthorized
access to; or corrupt, observe, or modify without authorization, any data; network transmissions;
software; computing or network devices; or telecommunications equipment, provided, however,
that LCH SA shall use such detection devices and techniques solely for the aforesaid purpose; and
monitoring network traffic for patterns potentially indicating the misuse or abuse of the Network.

16

LCH SA
4.3.5.2

Content Monitoring

LCH SA does not monitor, review, edit, or censor information transmitted by Users on the Network. Users
are solely responsible for the information they transmit on the Network and for complying with all laws
and regulations applicable to such information. Users acknowledge that LCH SA is not responsible for the
truthfulness, accuracy, or legality of any information transmitted, published, or accessed by Users on the
Network.

4.3.5.3

Investigations

LCH SA reserves the right to:
initiate investigations into potential misuse or abuse of the Network Services by Users;
involve, and cooperate to the fullest extent possible with, law enforcement, regulatory, and other
authorized agencies in the investigation and prosecution of crimes alleged or suspected to have
been committed using the Network Services;
terminate or suspend use of the Network Services by a User found to have violated this
Acceptable Use Policy or other applicable terms and conditions to which Users are legally bound
to LCH SA; and
immediately, without notice, and at LCH SA’s sole discretion, completely or partially suspend use
of, and access to, the Network Services by any User to the extent, as LCH SA determines in its sole
discretion, required to maintain and protect the security and operations of (i) LCH SA or the
Network Services, or (ii) any User or any User’s computer networks or systems, where LCH SA
reasonably believes such security and operations are under potential, threatened, or actual attack
or compromise.
In each case LCH SA suspends the Network Services, it shall advise its Users as promptly as possible. Such
Service may be restored, within LCH SA sole discretion, after any violation or threat has been remedied or
corrected.

17

LCH SA

5
5.1

APPENDIX 5 DESCRIPTION OF CMS
GENERAL PRINCIPLES

5.1.1

5.2

CMS is a graphical user interface provided over Internet by LCH SA for its Users, that enables
them to visualise their collateral positions and create collateral instruction requests.

MANAGING PRINCIPLES

5.2.1

The access to the CMS is delivered by LCH SA, after the Users have duly filled in and signed the
LCH SA adequate Request Form available on Portal.

5.2.2

This Request Form shall be duly completed and signed by the Users and sent by registered
letter to the appropriate LCH SA interlocutor as set out on the Request Form.

5.2.3

The Internet access to the CMS is managed via passwords.

5.2.4

Via CMS, LCH SA provides the Users with the appropriate collateral data (real time data) as set
out in Annex 2 “Collateral Data to be visualised via CMS “of this appendix.

5.2.5

Via CMS, LCH SA provides the Users with the possibility to create collateral instructions aimed
at LCH SA.

5.2.6

Via CMS, LCH SA provides the Users with a status on their past and current Collateral
instructions as set out in Annex 3 “Collateral instructions workflow in CMS” of this appendix.

5.2.7

Any Anomaly encountered regarding the proper use of CMS must be raised to LCH SA
Customer Technical Helpdesk (CTH) in compliance with the terms set out in Schedule 3 of this
Agreement.

5.2.8

Any Changes requested by the Users from LCH SA regarding CMS shall be notified by the Users
to LCH SA by completing the appropriate Request Form available from LCH SA.
5.3

Collateral Type
Cash
Securities

ANNEX 2: Collateral Data to be visualised via CMS

Balance
By market / sub-account
By market / sub-account

18

Instructions
By mnemonic
By market / sub-account

LCH SA
5.4

ANNEX 3: Collateral Instructions workflow

Workflow for security and cash instructions:

19

LCH SA

6

APPENDIX 6: DESCRIPTION OF THE CDSCLEAR PORTFOLIO MARGIN CALCULATION
TOOL

6.1

GENERAL PRINCIPLES

6.1.1

The Portfolio Margin Calculation (PMC) tool sits with the LCH SA Portal (more information is
provided in Appendix 11). Access to the Portal is provided by LCH SA to Users of LCH SA
CDSClear service over secured Internet.

6.1.2

The Internet access to the PMC tool is managed via the Portal Access process.The access to
PMC tool requires a specific User request.

6.1.3

The Users shall strictly comply with the terms of use of the Portal security policy, detailed in
Schedule 1 of this Agreement and the associated Documentation.

6.1.4

Via the PMC tool, LCH SA provides the Users with margin calculation results as set out in
section 6.3 Annex 2 “CDSClear Clearing Data to be accessed via LCH SA Portal”.

6.1.5

Any anomaly encountered regarding the proper use of the PMC tool must be raised to LCH SA
Customer Technical Helpdesk (CTH) in compliance with the terms set out in Schedule 3 of this
Agreement.

6.1.6

Any changes requested by the Users from LCH SA regarding the PMC tool shall be notified by
the Users to LCH SA by contacting the appropriate Super User, who would then complete the
appropriate Request Form available from LCH SA.

6.1.7

There are no costs regarding the provision of this Service.

6.2

MANAGING PRINCIPLES

The CDSClear Portfolio Margin Calculator (PMC) allows Users of LCH SA CDSClear service to compute the
margin requirements for a portfolio of CDS Indices and Single Names. The main capabilities are:
-

Pre-trade estimation (for speed)
Post-trade reconciliation (for accuracy)

Overnight all products are unit-priced using scenario data from the most recent end-of-day production
margin run. Intraday this is used to allow PMC to calculate the margins for the portfolio quickly.
The portfolio selected in the PMC can be any of the following:
-

the existing portfolio containing the current stock of trades;
a synthetic portfolio containing new trades;
a combination of current and new trades

The PMC allows new trades to be uploaded from a CSV file and to be entered manually.
The following browsers are supported:
-

IE 7, 8, 9
Firefox 19
Chrome 15, 25
Safari 5.1.7
20

LCH SA

7
7.1

7.2

APPENDIX 7: DESCRIPTION OF THE CDSCLEAR REPORTING APPLICATION
GENERAL PRINCIPLES

7.1.1

The CDSClear Reporting application is a User Interface which allows Users of LCH SA CDSClear
service to gain access to a full suite of downloadable report files.

7.1.2

Users have the possibility to choose the family, the format and the date of reports they are
interested in as set out in section 6.3 Annex 2 “CDSClear Clearing Data to be accessed via LCH
SA Portal”.

7.1.3

The CDSClear Reporting application does not allow Users to automate the report and
therefore is not fit for FTP usage.

MANAGING PRINCIPLES

7.2.1

The CDSClear Reporting application sits with the LCH SA Portal (more information in Appendix
11). Access to the LCH SA Portal is provided by LCH SA to Users of LCH SA CDSClear service
over secured Internet.

7.2.2

The Internet access to the CDSClear Reporting application is managed via the LCH SA Portal
Access process. The access to the CDSClear Reporting application requires a specific User
request.

7.2.3

The Users shall strictly comply with the terms of use of the LCH SA Portal security policy,
detailed in Schedule 1 of this Agreement and the associated Documentation.

7.2.4

Via the CDSClear Reporting application, LCH SA provides the Users of LCH SA CDSClear service
with the suite of report files (Product, Trades, Risks, Margin & Collateral and Event report
families) as set out in section 6.3 Annex 2 “CDSClear Clearing Data to be accessed via LCH SA
Portal”.

7.2.5

Any anomaly encountered regarding the proper use of the CDSClear Reporting application
must be raised to LCH SA Customer Technical Helpdesk (CTH) in compliance with the terms set
out in Schedule 3 of this Agreement.

7.2.6

Any changes requested by the Users to LCH SA regarding the CDSClear Reporting application
shall be notified by the Users to LCH SA by contacting the appropriate Super User, who shall
then complete the appropriate Request Form available from LCH SA.

7.2.7

There are no costs regarding the provision of this Service.

21

LCH SA
7.3

ANNEX 2: CDSClear Clearing data to be accessed via LCH SA Portal

CDSCLEAR FILES
REPORTING

PRODUCTION

Product Management reports
Trade Management reports
Risk Management reports
Collateral & Margin Management reports
Event Management reports
Trade Management
Bilateral Trades Management User Interface
Cleared Trades Management User Interface
Extract of the data in .csv format
Compression Management
Automatic Compression Configuration
Adhoc Compression File
Backloading
Weekly Backloading Clearing Eligibility Report
Management
Portfolio Margin Calculator (PMC)
Users of the PMC tool will gain access to their
permissioned CDSClear Clearing Member trade
portfolio, in order for them to run margin simulations
against it.

22

TEST

LCH SA

8

APPENDIX 8: DESCRIPTION OF THE CDSCLEAR TRADE MANAGEMENT
APPLICATION

8.1

8.2

GENERAL PRINCIPLES

8.1.1

The CDSClear Trade Management application is a User Interface which allows Users of LCH SA
CDSClear service to gain access to real time information on their trade portfolios (bilateral and
cleared trades).

8.1.2

The CDSClear Trade Management application allows the available data to be filtered using
specific criteria.

8.1.3

The CDSClear Trade Management application allows Users to extract data if the number of
lines to be displayed on the screens is too important. The format of the extracted file is .csv
format.

8.1.4

The Reporting application does not allow Users to automate the data and therefore is not fit
for FTP usage.

MANAGING PRINCIPLES

8.2.1

The CDSClear Trade Management application sits with the LCH SA Portal (more information is
available in Appendix 11). Access to the LCH SA Portal is provided by LCH SA to Users of LCH SA
CDSClear service over secured Internet.

8.2.2

The Internet access to the CDSClear Trade Management application is managed via the Portal
Access process. The access to the CDSClear Trade Management application requires a specific
User request.

8.2.3

The Users shall strictly comply with the terms of use of the LCH SA Portal security policy,
detailed in Schedule 1 of this Agreement and the associated Documentation.

8.2.4

Via the CDSClear Trade Management application, LCH SA provides the Users of LCH SA
CDSClear service with real time information on their trade portfolios (bilateral and cleared
trades) and the possibility to extract data through .csv file download as set out in section 6.3
Annex 2 “CDSClear Clearing Data to be accessed via LCH SA Portal”.

8.2.5

Any anomaly encountered regarding the proper use of the CDSClear Trade Management
application must be raised to LCH SA Customer Technical Helpdesk (CTH) in compliance with
the terms set out in Schedule 3 of this Agreement.

8.2.6

Any changes requested by the Users from LCH SA regarding the CDSClear Trade Management
application shall be notified by the Users to LCH SA by contacting the appropriate Super User,
who shall then complete the appropriate Request Form available from LCH SA.

8.2.7

There are no costs regarding the provision of this Service.

23

LCH SA

8.3

ANNEX 2: CDSClear Clearing data to be accessed via LCH SA Portal

CDSCLEAR FILES
REPORTING

PRODUCTION

Product Management reports
Trade Management reports
Risk Management reports
Collateral & Margin Management reports
Event Management reports
Trade Management
Bilateral Trades Management User Interface
Cleared Trades Management User Interface
Extract of the data in .csv format
Compression Management
Automatic Compression Configuration
Adhoc Compression File
Backloading
Weekly Backloading Clearing Eligibility Report
Management
Portfolio Margin Calculator (PMC)
Users of the PMC tool will gain access to their
permissioned CDSClear Clearing Member trade
portfolio, in order for them to run margin simulations
against it.

24

TEST

LCH SA

9
9.1

9.2

APPENDIX 9: DESCRIPTION OF THE CDSCLEAR BACKLOADING APPLICATION
GENERAL PRINCIPLES

9.1.1

The CDSClear Backloading application is a User Interface which allows Users of LCH SA
CDSClear service to have the ability to select and upload trades for clearing for the Weekly
Backloading cycle.

9.1.2

To proceed with the above described process, Users need to upload a .csv file named Result
Clearing Eligibility Report.

9.1.3

The CDSClear Reporting application does not allow Users to automate the data and therefore
is not fit for FTP usage.

MANAGING PRINCIPLES

9.2.1

The CDSClear Backloading application sits with the LCH SA Portal (more information is
available in Appendix 11). Access to the Portal is provided by LCH SA to Users of LCH SA
CDSClear service over secured Internet.

9.2.2

The Internet access to the CDSClear Backloading application is managed via the LCH SA Portal
Access process. The access to the CDSClear Backloading application requires a specific User
request.

9.2.3

The Users shall strictly comply with the terms of use of the LCH SA Portal security policy,
detailed in Schedule 1 of this Agreement and the associated Documentation.

9.2.4

Via the CDSClear Backloading application, LCH SA provides the Users of LCH SA CDSClear
service with the ability to select and upload trades for clearing via the weekly backloading
cycle using the CER Result File as set out in section 6.3 Annex 2 “CDSClear Clearing Data to be
accessed via LCH SA Portal”.

9.2.5

Any anomaly encountered regarding the proper use of the Backloading application must be
raised to LCH SA Customer Technical Helpdesk (CTH) in compliance with the terms set out in
Schedule 3 of this Agreement.

9.2.6

Any changes requested by the Users from LCH SA regarding the CDSClear Backloading
application shall be notified by the Users to LCH SA by contacting the appropriate Super User,
who shall then complete the appropriate Request Form available from LCH SA.

9.2.7

There are no costs regarding the provision of this Service.

25

LCH SA

9.3

ANNEX 2: CDSClear Clearing data to be accessed via LCH SA Portal

CDSCLEAR FILES
REPORTING

PRODUCTION

Product Management reports
Trade Management reports
Risk Management reports
Collateral & Margin Management reports
Event Management reports
Trade Management
Bilateral Trades Management User Interface
Cleared Trades Management User Interface
Extract of the data in .csv format
Compression Management
Automatic Compression Configuration
Adhoc Compression File
Backloading
Weekly Backloading Clearing Eligibility Report
Management
Portfolio Margin Calculator (PMC)
Users of the PMC tool will gain access to their
permissioned CDSClear Clearing Member trade
portfolio, in order for them to run margin simulations
against it.

26

TEST

LCH SA

10 APPENDIX 10: DESCRIPTION OF THE CDSCLEAR COMPRESSION APPLICATION
10.1

GENERAL PRINCIPLES

10.1.1 The CDSClear Compression application is a User Interface which allows Users of LCH SA
CDSClear service to configure their compression settings on their portfolios. Users have
several options of compression frequency (daily or weekly) and the possibility to compress
their trades at deskID level.

10.1.2 The CDSClear Compression application also allows Users to upload a .csv file for ad-hoc
compression.

10.1.3 The CDSClear Compression application does not allow Users to automate the data and
therefore is not fit for FTP usage.
10.2

MANAGING PRINCIPLES

10.2.1 The CDSClear Compression application sits with the LCH SA Portal (more information in
Appendix 11). Access to the LCH SA Portal is provided by LCH SA to Users of LCH SA CDSClear
service over secured Internet.

10.2.2 The Internet access to the CDSClear Compression application is managed via the LCH SA Portal
Access process. The access to the CDSClear Compression application requires a specific User
request.

10.2.3 The Users shall strictly comply with the terms of use of the LCH SA Portal security policy,
detailed in Schedule 1 of this Agreement and the associated Documentation.

10.2.4 Via the CDSClear Compression application, LCH SA provides the Users of LCH SA CDSClear
service with the ability to configure their compression settings and to upload ad-hoc
compression files as set out in section 6.3 Annex 2 “CDSClear Clearing Data to be accessed via
LCH SA Portal”.

10.2.5 Any anomaly encountered regarding the proper use of the CDSClear Compressionapplication
must be raised to LCH SA Customer Technical Helpdesk (CTH) in compliance with the terms set
out in Schedule 3 of this Agreement.

10.2.6 Any changes requested by the Users from LCH SA regarding the Trade CDSClear Compression
application shall be notified by the Users to LCH SA by contacting the appropriate Super User,
who shall then complete the appropriate Request Form available from LCH SA.

10.2.7 There are no costs regarding the provision of this Service.

27

LCH SA

10.3

ANNEX 2: CDSClear Clearing data to be accessed via LCH SA Portal

CDSCLEAR FILES
REPORTING

PRODUCTION

Product Management reports
Trade Management reports
Risk Management reports
Collateral & Margin Management reports
Event Management reports
Trade Management
Bilateral Trades Management User Interface
Cleared Trades Management User Interface
Extract of the data in .csv format
Compression Management
Automatic Compression Configuration
Adhoc Compression File
Backloading
Weekly Backloading Clearing Eligibility Report
Management
Portfolio Margin Calculator (PMC)
Users of the PMC tool will gain access to their
permissioned CDSClear Clearing Member trade
portfolio, in order for them to run margin simulations
against it.

28

TEST

LCH SA

11 APPENDIX 11: DESCRIPTION OF THE LCH SA PORTAL
11.1

GENERAL PRINCIPLES

11.1.1 Portal is a single sign-on solution for various LCH SA applications.
11.1.2 Once logged onto the LCH SA Portal, Users will have access to a set of parameterised
applications without logging in again.

11.1.3 The available set of applications is defined at User level - based on permissions applied to that
user.
11.2

MANAGING PRINCIPLES

The managing principles for the LCH SA Portal access are detailed hereafter:

11.2.1 In order to be granted access to the LCH SA Portal, the Users shall request LCH SA to provide
the appropriate Request Form. Once this form is duly completed and signed by the Users, LCH
SA takes the necessary actions to give the Users LCH SA Portal access in coordination with
Portal team.

11.2.2 To be granted access to the LCH SA Portal is typically done via the Super User facility, excluding
CMS ONLY which is done via an online request form directly available to members upon
acceding to the LCH SA Portal Link.

11.2.3 For all applications (except CMS), users gain access to portal via the Super User facility, which
is a delegated responsibility given to 1 or 2 people within that User institution for each line of
business and possibly for each application.

11.2.4 In order for a Clearing Member to have access as a Super User, such Clearing Member needs
to request the appropriate form from LCH SA, have it signed by an authorised signatory for
that bank and then return it to LCH SA. Once returned, LCH SA creates this User as a Super
User with delegated authority to create access for others within their own institution.

11.2.5 The Users shall comply with the instructions provided by LCH SA in the relevant
documentation in order to activate their login.

11.2.6 The following events shall be immediately communicated to LCH SA in order to update Users’
accesses:
leavers (eg. resignation, dismissal, any cause of leaving)
change of function

11.2.7 Inactivate accounts: note that the LCH SA Portal Security policy states that all accounts that
are not used for a 3 month period will automatically become inactive. In order for the user to
start using the account again, they will need to contact LCH SA for re-activation. If the period
of inactivity continues for up to 6 months, accounts will then be automatically deleted. This is
a measure that will be taken to as strictly as possible, for security to mitigate the possibility of
any breaches.

29

LCH SA

12 APPENDIX 12: DESCRIPTION OF WEB EGCP

12.1

GENERAL PRINCIPLES

12.1.1 Web EGCP is an electronic Clearing Access Solution provided by LCH SA for its Users trading on
the €GCPlus market cleared by LCH SA.

12.1.2 Web EGCP grants Users secured access to view and download the data set out in Annex 2 of
this Appendix.

12.2

MANAGING PRINCIPLES

12.2.1 The access to the Web EGCP is delivered by LCH SA, after the Users have duly filled in and
signed the LCH SA adequate Request Form

12.2.2 This Request Form shall be duly completed and signed by the Users and sent by registered
letter to the appropriate LCH SA interlocutor as set out on the Request Form.

12.2.3 The access to the Web EGCP is managed via a Secure Access Card. The Users shall strictly
comply with the terms of use of the Secure Access Card as those terms are set out in clause
2.2 of this appendix, security measures set out in Schedule 1 of this Agreement and the
associated Documentation.

12.2.4 The access to the Web EGCP can also be managed via the implementation of a push or pull
solution (hereafter “Push/Pull Solution”), on request of the Users. Either the Users connect to
the Appropriate Network and pull the Web EGCP files onto its information system; or LCH SA
pushes the Web EGCP files on to the Clearing Member’s information system via internet.

12.2.5 LCH SA offers to its Users two technical solutions to get access to the Push / Pull Solution:
either a PGP solution (encrypted), or
a public solution (non encrypted solution).
The choice between these two solutions remains under the sole responsibility of the Users. Each
User declares that he has the accurate knowledge to assess the consequences each solution may
generate. In this context, the Users acknowledge and agree that LCH SA would not suffer any
liability regarding the consequences associated with the choice described above and notably
where the Users opt for the public solution.
Further to clause 13 of the Access Agreement and notwithstanding anything to the contrary, in no
circumstances whatsoever will LCH SA be liable for any direct or indirect loss or damage including
without limitation, loss of data or loss of profits arising out of, or in connection with, the use of
the public solution. Any reliance the User places on information received through the public
solution is therefore at its own risk.

12.2.6 Via the Web EGCP, LCH SA provides the Users with the appropriate clearing data (files) as set out
in Annex 2 “Clearing Data to be accessed via Web EGCP “.

30

LCH SA

12.2.7 The following events shall be immediately communicated to LCH SA Account Managers by the
Users Web €GCPlus administrator (MSA) in order to update the Users’ accesses to the Web
EGCP :
leavers (eg.resignation, dismissal, any cause of leaving);
change of function;
re-assignation of Secure Access Card;
loss of Secure Access Card or activation of Secure Access Card following the synchronisation
or loss of PIN code.

12.2.8 Any Anomaly encountered regarding the proper use of the Web EGCP must be raised to LCH
SA Customer Technical Helpdesk (CTH) in compliance with the terms set out in Schedule 3 of
this Agreement.

12.2.9 Any Changes required by the Users to LCH SA regarding the Web EGCP shall be notified by the
Users to LCH SA by filling in the adequate Request Form “Web EGCP Change Request Form”
attached in Annex 1 of this Appendix.
12.3
12.4

ANNEX 1 : Secure Access Card Management

General Principles

12.4.1 A token, hereafter referred as “Secure Access Card” aims at delivering to the Users a secured
electronic access to the Web EGCP Clearing Access Solutions.

12.4.2 The “Secure Access Card” is automatically provided by LCH SA as soon as the Users request to
be granted access to Web EGCP.
12.5

Managing principles

12.5.1 The Secure Access Card enables access to the Web EGCP production interface.
12.5.2 The Secure Access Card is provided to the Users when they issue a request to LCH SA CTH in
order to be granted access to the Web EGCP platform via Internet.

12.5.3 The Users may also wish to be granted access to the Web EGCP files via a “push or pull”
solution, which consists in granting access to EGCP files via FTP network.

12.5.4 The Users shall specify in the Request Form which Clearing Access Solution they require and
also give details on the Users:
Names
Address (site, country)
E-mail address
Phone number
Fax number

12.5.5 LCH SA CTH is in charge of providing the Users with the following relevant and sufficient
information to have access to the Web EGCP production interface:
Pin code
Password
Instructions for use.

12.5.6 The Users shall comply with the instructions provided by LCH SA in the relevant
documentation.

31

LCH SA

12.5.7 Secure Access Cards operate for a limited period of time (3 years in average). It will therefore
be replaced at LCH SA initiative in due course.

12.5.8 Any Anomaly or problem encountered by the Users regarding the Web EGCP access via the
Secure Access Card shall be raised to LCH SA CTH.

12.5.9 The costs regarding the Web EGCP Clearing Access Solution are the ones set out in the
effective LCH SA fee grid.

12.6

ANNEX 2: Clearing data to be accessed via Web EGCP

12.6.1 The Web EGCP solution gives access to the Users to the following data:






in real-time :
daily operations (validated and refused) recorded by LCH SA during the day
at the end of day :
-recap of all trades registered during the day
-report on Net Position Exposure calculation (also updated once intra day)
08.00 next morning (Paris time) :
financial report (also updated for intraday position)
monthly :
invoicing details

12.6.2 Hereunder is the list of files provided via the Web EGCP Clearing Access Solution:
Report Name
Real time trade report
(for €GCPlus)
Regularisation (for
€GCPlus)
Trades of the day (for
€GCPlus)
Forward Repos (for
€GCPlus)

Technical Name
CBPTRAD

Production Description
xxxPRYYYYMMDDCBPTRAD_HHMM.NET

Test Description
xxxTSYYYYMMDDCBPTRAD_HHMM.NET

CBPREGU

xxxPRYYYYMMDDCBPREGU.TXT

xxxTSYYYYMMDDCBPREGU.TXT

CBPDTRD

xxxPRYYYYMMDDCBPDTRD.TXT

xxxTSYYYYMMDDCBPDTRD.TXT

CBPFORW

xxxPRYYYYMMDDCBPFORW.TXT

xxxTSYYYYMMDDCBPFORW.TXT

Detail of Net Instructions
(same day)
Detail of Net Instructions
(tomorrow)

CBPNPE1

xxxPRYYYYMMDDCBPNPE1.TXT

xxxTSYYYYMMDDCBPNPE1.TXT

CBPNPE2

xxxPRYYYYMMDDCBPNPE2.TXT

xxxTSYYYYMMDDCBPNPE2.TXT

Euro Financial Statement
Intra-day Euro Financial
Statement

CBPSFEU
CBPSFE1

xxxPRYYYYMMDDCBPSFEU.TXT
xxxPRYYYYMMDDCBPSFE1.TXT

xxxTSYYYYMMDDCBPSFEU.TXT
xxxTSYYYYMMDDCBPSFE1.TXT

Settlement related costs
Fees amounts

CBPNETT
CBPREPO

xxxPRYYYYMMDDCBPNETT.TXT
xxxPRYYYYMMDDCBPREPO.TXT

xxxTSYYYYMMDDCBPNETT.TXT
xxxTSYYYYMMDDCBPREPO.TXT

Intra Day Market data
Market data
Intra Day Risk Report
Risk Report

CBPMKDTITD
CBPMKDTRTH
CBPRISKITD
CBPRISKRTH

xxxPRYYYYMMDDCBPMKDTITD.TXT
xxxPRYYYYMMDDCBPMKDTRTH.TXT
xxxPRYYYYMMDDCBPRISKITD.TXT
xxxPRYYYYMMDDCBPRISKRTH.TXT

xxxTSYYYYMMDDCBPMKDTITD.TXT
xxxTSYYYYMMDDCBPMKDTRTH.TXT
xxxTSYYYYMMDDCBPRISKITD.TXT
xxxTSYYYYMMDDCBPRISKRTH.TXT

32

LCH SA

13 APPENDIX 13: DESCRIPTION OF THE CDSCLEAR REPORTING SFTP SOLUTION
13.1

GENERAL PRINCIPLES

The CDSClear Reporting SFTP solution is a non-browser based, Secure FTP (File Transfer Protocol) interface
used by Users of the LCH SA CDSClear service for the scripted, bulk retrieval of reports on a scheduled
basis. Users connect on a frequent, automatic schedule and retrieve reports, often across multiple
business line, in bulk - for later processing.
This is a non-user interactive interface.
Access to the CDSClear Reporting SFTP solution is made through Internet or BT Radianz connection.
13.2

COMPOSITION OF THE CDSCLEAR REPORTING SFTP SOLUTION

The CDSClear Reporting SFTP solution supplies the Users of the LCH SA CDSClear service with a Secure FTP
service by restricting accounts by IP addresses enabling the management of incoming and outgoing files
flows.
The CDSClear Reporting SFTP solution handles the certification and storage of data interchanged between
tUsers and LCH SA.
13.3

MANAGING PRINCIPLES

13.3.1 The CDSClear Reporting SFTP solution has been built using the LCH SA Portal security model.
13.3.2 Whenever Users require to be given access to the CDSClear Reporting SFTP Solution, the
appropriate Request Form, available from the LCH SA Portal, shall be duly completed and signed by
the Users and sent by registered letter to the appropriate LCH SA interlocutor as set out on the
Request Form.

13.3.3 Any Anomaly encountered regarding the proper use of the CDSClear Reporting SFTP solution must
be raised to LCH SA Customer Technical Helpdesk (CTH) in compliance with the terms set out in
Schedule 3 of this Agreement.

13.3.4 Any changes requested by the Users from LCH SA regarding the CDSClear Reporting SFTP solution
shall be notified by the Users to LCH SA by contacting the appropriate Super User, who would then
complete the appropriate Request Form available from LCH SA.

13.3.5 There are no costs regarding the provision of this Service.

33

LCH SA

14 APPENDIX 14: DESCRIPTION OF THE CDSCLEAR REPORTING

APPLICATION

PROGRAMMING INTERFACE
14.1

GENERAL PRINCIPLES

The CDSClear Reporting API solution provides a programmatic interface where Users of the LCH SA CDSClear
service can use scripts to access and download individual reports.
Access to the CDSClear Reporting API solution is made through Internet.
14.2

COMPOSITION OF THE CDSCLEAR REPORTING API SOLUTION

CDSClear Reporting API solution supplies the Users with the ability to run a script in order to retrieve reports on
an ad-hoc or small-scale basis – the new API interface provides a secure mechanism in which to do so.
Members need to register for a new Portal API account and password.
The CDSClear Reporting API solution handles the certification and storage of data interchanged between the
Users and LCH SA.

14.3

MANAGING PRINCIPLES

14.3.1 The CDSClear Reporting API solution has been built using the LCH SA Portal security model.
14.3.2 Whenever Users require to be given access to the CDSClear Reporting API Solution, the
appropriate Request Form, available from the LCH SA Portal, shall be duly completed and signed by
the Users and sent by registered letter to the appropriate LCH SA interlocutor as set out on the
Request Form.

14.3.3 Any Anomaly encountered regarding the proper use of the CDSClear Reporting API solution must
be raised to LCH SA Customer Technical Helpdesk (CTH) in compliance with the terms set out in
Schedule 3 of this Agreement.

14.3.4 Any Changes required by the Users to LCH SA regarding the CDSClear Reporting API solution shall
be notified by the Users to LCH SA by contacting the appropriate Super User, who would then
complete the appropriate Request Form available from LCH SA.

14.3.5 There are no costs regarding the provision of this Service.

34

LCH SA

15 APPENDIX 15: DESCRIPTION OF THE CDSCLEAR PORTFOLIO MARGIN CALCULATION
APPLICATION PROGRAMMING INTERFACE
15.1

GENERAL PRINCIPLES

The CDSClear PMC API provides a programmatic interface where Users of the LCH SA CDSClear service can use
scripts to access and download individual margin results.
Access to the CDSClear PMC API solution is made through Internet.

15.2

COMPOSITION OF THE CDSCLEAR PMC API

CDSClear PMC API solution supplies the Users with the ability to run a script in order to calculate margin on an
ad-hoc or small-scale basis – the API interface provides a secure mechanism in which to do so.
Members need to register for a new Portal API account and password.
The CDSClear PMC API solution handles the certification and storage of data interchanged between the Users
and LCH SA.
15.3

MANAGING PRINCIPLES

15.3.1 The PMC API solution has been built using the LCH SA Portal security model.
15.3.2 Whenever Users require to be given access to the CDSClear PMC API, the appropriate Request
Form, available from the LCH SA Portal, shall be duly completed and signed by the Users and sent
by registered letter to the appropriate LCH SA interlocutor as set out on the Request Form.

15.3.3 Any Anomaly encountered regarding the proper use of the CDSClear PMC API must be raised to
LCH SA Customer Technical Helpdesk (CTH) in compliance with the terms set out in Schedule 3 of
this Agreement.

15.3.4 Any Changes required by the Users to LCH SA regarding the CDSClear PMC API solution shall be
notified by the Users to LCH SA by contacting the appropriate Super User, who would then
complete the appropriate Request Form available from LCH SA.

15.3.5 There are no costs regarding the provision of this Service.

35

EXHIBIT P-3.3

Schedule 3
LCH SA SUPPORT SERVICES
1 GENERAL PRINCIPLES
1.1.1

Support Services consist:
in answering the Users' queries regarding the proper use of the Clearing Access Solution(s) it has
chosen,
in providing the Users with solutions either definitive or temporary to remedy detected
Anomalies,
in supervising the connectivity of the Users Clearing Access Solutions,
in assisting the Users to implement the changes they require on their Clearing Access Solutions,
pursuant to the processes as set out in the relevant Request Forms available on request from LCH
SA Account Manager.
in assisting the Users to remedy any Anomalies errors that arise in the course of normal use of
Clearing Access Solutions,
in coordinating actions of LCH SA's Subcontractors,
in keeping the Users informed of the progress and of the status of the Anomalies and/or changes
he has raised.

2 SERVICE LIMITATIONS
2.1.1 The scope of the Support Services does not include any maintenance operations attributable
further to a Users action and/or event such as:
non-compliance with the instructions provided by LCH SA or the Customer Technical Helpdesk
(CTH);
non-compliance with the technical specifications described in the Documentation;
modification of the Clearing Access Solution without prior authorisation from LCH SA;
transmission media operated by third-party operators, whether private or public;
intrusion, by fraudulent means or through negligence, of a third party in LCH SA information
systems via the Clearing Access Solution made available to the Users;
non-compliance with the security procedures described in Schedule 1 of this Agreement;
Force Majeure Events pursuant to Clause 15 of the Agreement.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Support Services do not encompass the provision of maintenance
services regarding equipment or any hardware provided by Subcontractors.
The Support Services depend on the Users Clearing Access Solution and can include the Services set out
below.

3 CUSTOMER TECHNICAL HELPDESK (CTH)
3.1
LCH SA operates a technical support desk to which Users can submit queries as to the use of the
Clearing Access Solutions.
3.2
Any Anomaly on Clearing Access Solutions must be identified by the Users or the Clearing
Access Solution Third Party Provider and communicated to LCH SA by telephone, facsimile or electronic
mail to the Customer Technical Helpdesk during Service Hours and at the phone numbers and addresses
as set out in Appendix 1.

1

3.3
The Users shall refer to the relevant Documentation relating to the Clearing Access Solutions
prior to contacting the Customer Technical Helpdesk and shall describe precisely and thoroughly the
symptoms of the problem encountered.
3.4
Anomalies, Change Requests or queries will be attributed a reference number (ticket reference)
by the CTH. This reference number, to be construed as an acknowledgment of receipt, will be
communicated by the CTH to the Users by e-mail.
3.5
Upon notification of a Anomaly, the CTH shall perform a 1st analysis, in collaboration with the
Users, and may be able to provide assistance, and/or correction and/or a workaround solution
- by telephone and/or
- by remote access if feasible.
3.6
Workaround solutions are solely temporary and must be followed up with a definitive
corrective solution unless otherwise decided by LCH SA. The Users shall, where necessary, send to the
CTH any items that the CTH may request.
3.7
The CTH is entitled, unless otherwise requested by the Users, to transfer the Anomaly to any
Sub-contractor and/or to another LCH SA internal department to establish a diagnosis, for assistance
and/or corrective action; such Subcontractor or internal department being, for the sake of clarity,
entitled to contact directly the Users to perform the above tasks.
3.8
The CTH will supervise the correction of the Anomaly by LCH SA Subcontractor and/or internal
department, until it has been remedied.
3.9
The CTH shall make its best endeavours to provide the Support Services to the Users. However
LCH SA does not undertake any commitment to effectively correct the Anomaly and/or implement the
change and/or provide the Users with any workaround solutions in any timeframe whatsoever. LCH SA
does neither undertake any of the above commitment on behalf of any Authorised Third Party Provider.
3.10 The CTH shall, at the end of the Support Services process as detailed above, issue by e-mail to the
Users a proposal to close the Anomaly or Change Request, which at the expiry of a 48 hours period, will
be construed as a formal acceptance by the Users unless the Users requests otherwise.

4 ON-SITE SUPPORT
4.1
Where the telephone assistance and remote Support Services are insufficient to remedy the
reported Anomaly, on-site support action may be necessary.
In this case, the CTH is entitled to assign the Anomaly to a Subcontractor with the ability to provide on
site support to the Users.
The CTH will provide the Subcontractor with the detailed list of the actions already performed by the
CTH to resolve the Anomaly. The Subcontractor will contact directly the Users to organize the on-site
support, if need be.
The Users shall ensure free access to their premises.
The on-site Support Services are not in the scope of this Agreement and therefore each on–site support
intervention will generate additional fees to be invoiced directly by the third -party to the Users. LCH SA
does not bear neither any cost nor any liability resulting from the onsite support services provided by
the Subcontractor. For the avoidance of doubt, where on site Support Services are required due to the
negligence or wilful default of LCH SA, such Services will not be subject to a fee.
4.2
The Subcontractor will request, prior to planning any on-site support intervention, the Users
prior consent. If the Users require an on-site support during Normal Service Hours, the Subcontractor
may request the Users to interrupt its activities for the duration of the on-site support services.

2

5 UPGRADES
5.1
LCH SA will rely on remote loading to supply upgrades to the software that include patches for
the Anomalies, defects in design or implementation or Anomalies reported by the Users or the
Subcontractor detected by LCH SA on its own initiative, and/or that
include new functionalities.
5.2

Such software upgrades are covered by the Support Services defined in this Schedule.

6 SUPERVISION
6.1
The CTH provides a supervision service of the Clearing Access Solutions. Therefore, the CTH can
detect rapidly whether a Clearing Access Solution experiences some connections Anomalies. In this case,
the CTH may be entitled to contact directly the Users in order to conduct a root cause analysis of such
connections problems.
6.2 This supervision service does not substitute to the fact that the Users shall raise any encountered
Anomaly to the CTH.

7 VERIFICATION TESTS
7.1
Whenever a Clearing Access Solution is installed or a Change Request is issued or an Anomaly is
reported on the Users’ Clearing Access Solution, the CTH is entitled to perform a series of verification
test in direct collaboration with the Users in order to check that the Clearing Access Solution is
satisfactorily operating. For that purpose, the Users undertake to comply with all instructions given by
LCH SA and to dedicate any appropriate resource to perform the necessary verification tests.

8 CALLS RECORDING
8.1 The CTH will record and track every incoming Anomalies and/or Changes Requests and/or queries,
reported by the Users in LCH SA call management system.
8.2
The Users shall record all Change Requests and/or Anomalies raised to the CTH on an
appropriate media.
8.3
The Users are informed that LCH SA may use voice recording procedure in connection with any
Anomaly and/or Change Requests issued by the Users.
8.4
CTH will record the following information in its call management system that will be updated
and safeguarded:
ticket reference
Anomaly and/or Changes Requests descriptions (effects, symptoms detected and all other
information provided by the Users) provided by the Users via telephone calls, faxes and emails;
diagnosis performed;
solutions proposed;
major actions taken to resolve the Anomaly or implement the Change Request;
dates and times of the aforementioned actions or events.
8.5
In the event of any conflict, the information recorded into LCH SA call management system shall
be construed as “prima facie evidence” unless the Users are able to evidence that LCH SA database is
lacking one or several pieces of information duly exchanged between the Parties.
This Schedule includes the following Appendices:

3

9 APPENDIX 1: OPERATING HOURS AND CONDITIONS OF THE CTH
9.1 Contact details
9.1.1 The Users are responsible for making direct contact with the Customer Technical Helpdesk to
report any Anomaly they encounter or Change Request they require during normal use of the Services
provided by LCH SA. The Customer Technical Helpdesk can be contacted at:
- Telephone: +33 (0)1. 70. 37. 66. 00
- Facsimile: +33 (0)1. 70. 37. 65. 05
- Email: cth.sa@lch.com

9.2 Service Hours
9.2.1

The Users can contact the Customer Technical Helpdesk at the following times:

Normal Service Hours
Monday to Friday (excluding public holidays specified in the LCH SA clearing calendar)
7 a.m. - 11 p.m CET.
9.2.2 LCH SA may decide to extend the Service Hours under certain circumstances and at its sole
discretion. The Users may be informed in due time through a general information communicated via email.

10 APPENDIX 2 : USERS CONTACTS AND REFERENCES
The Users shall fill in the following:
- a nominative contact
- a telephone number;
- a fax number; and
- an email address.
COMPANY:
ADDRESS:
……………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………..
CTH GENERAL CONTACT
LAST NAME:

First
Name:
Telephone:
Fax:
CTH Technical Contact (to be completed of different from above)
LAST NAME:
First
Name:
Telephone:
Fax:

Position:
Email:

Email:

The Users shall inform without delay LCH SA of any change in the information indicated above.

4

EXHIBIT Q
Attach as Exhibit Q, a schedule of any prices, rates or fees fixed by registrant for services
rendered by its participants.
LCH SA (“LCH”) must publish a schedule of the fees payable by clearing members to
LCH on its public website pursuant to Article 1.2.6.1 of the CDS Clearing Rule Book.
These fees are occasionally amended. The most current version of each fee schedule is
available at the links below:


a schedule of fees linked to CDS Markets products is available at:
http://www.lch.com/asset-classes/otc-credit-default-swaps/fees;



a schedule of technical fees is available at: http://www.lch.com/membersclients/members/fees-sa/technical-fees-sa; and



a schedule of treasury fees is available at: http://www.lch.com/membersclients/members/fees-sa/treasury-fees-sa;



a schedule of annual account structure fees is available at:
http://www.lch.com/members-clients/members/fees-ltd/annual-account-structurefees.

Please note that the fees for Select Membership will be published on the first of the links
above. These will only be available on the website when this service is launched which is
expected to be in July 2016.

LCH SA_FORM CA-1 APPLICATION_EXHIBIT Q

EXHIBIT R
Attach as Exhibit R, a schedule of any prohibitions or limitations imposed by the clearing
agency on access by any person to services offered by any participant.
LCH SA (“LCH”) does not impose any prohibitions or limitations on access by any
person to services offered by any participant that are inconsistent with any applicable
standards or requirements under the Exchange Act (including, but not limited to, Section
17A(b)(6) thereof), SEC regulations or other applicable regulatory requirements
(collectively, “Applicable Regulatory Requirements”).


Section 1.1.1 and Article 6.1.1.2 of the LCH CDS Clearing Rule Book (the “Rule
Book”) prohibit FCM Clearing Members from offering client clearing services to
clients that do not meet the definition of “eligible contract participant” in
Commodity Exchange Act Section 1a(18).



The Rule Book also imposes certain requirements that a clearing member must
satisfy before providing clearing services to particular clients. Importantly, none
of these provisions are inconsistent with Applicable Regulatory Requirements,
even though they may have an effect on certain persons’ access to CDS clearing
services offered by LCH clearing members. In particular:
o Article 2.2.1.1 of the Rule Book states that all clearing members must
have a CDS Clearing Agreement in place with each client. Article
6.1.1.2(i) of the Rule Book states that before providing client clearing
services to any client or affiliate, an FCM must ensure that it has entered
into an agreement with the prospective client or affiliate that binds the
client or affiliate to the applicable provisions of the CDS Clearing Rules.
In addition, Article 5.1.1.2(i) of the Rule Book states that before providing
client clearing services to any client, a CCM clearing member must ensure
that it has entered into a CDS Client Clearing Agreement with the client
pursuant to which the client agrees to be bound by the provisions set forth
in Article 5.1.1.3 of the Rule Book. These provisions effectively prohibit
any person from accessing CDS clearing services through LCH clearing
members when such person is not willing to be bound by applicable
provisions of the CDS Clearing Rules or the CDS Clearing Agreement.

LCH SA_FORM CA-1 APPLICATION_EXHIBIT R

