ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17604
Former Investment Adviser Firm and CIO Settle to SEC Charges
September 30, 2016 - The Securities and Exchange Commission announced today that Moloney
Securities Co., Inc. and Joseph Ronald Medley, Jr. have agreed to settle compliance and
disclosure-related charges stemming from the firm’s failures to properly conduct and accurately
disclose its practices regarding principal transactions and implement the firm’s compliance
policies and procedures regarding principal transactions and best execution.
According to the SEC’s order, the SEC’s Office of Compliance Inspections and Examination
conducted examinations of Moloney and issued three deficiency letters to Moloney in 2006, 2009
and 2012.
In the 2006 exam deficiency letter, the SEC’s exam staff noted, among other items, that Moloney
did not have written compliance policies and procedures in place for its investment advisory
business. Moloney represented that it would correct the noted deficiencies. While Moloney
developed its written compliance policies and procedures for its investment advisory business, the
SEC’s 2009 exam revealed that Moloney had not adequately implemented those policies
concerning best execution and principal transactions. Furthermore, Moloney did not properly
conduct principal transactions. Accordingly, the SEC’s exam staff issued a deficiency letter in
2009 that identified deficiencies relating to Moloney’s practices regarding principal transactions
and Moloney’s failure to implement its compliance policies and procedures regarding principal
transactions and best execution. Moloney again responded that it would resolve these deficiencies
moving forward. Following the issuance of these two deficiency letters from the SEC’s exam
staff, Moloney received another deficiency letter from the agency’s exam staff in 2012 that
identified that the firm’s past deficiencies regarding principal transactions and implementation of
compliance policies and procedures were ongoing.
Beginning in July 2008, Medley served as Chief Investment Officer (CIO) and President of
Moloney’s investment advisory business. Through these roles, Medley was responsible for
overseeing Moloney’s investment advisory business during the relevant period. Thus, Medley was
responsible for ensuring that Moloney conducted principal transactions in compliance with the
Advisers Act and in a manner consistent with its written disclosures, and that the firm’s practices
accurately conformed and adhered to its compliance policies and procedures regarding principal
transactions and best execution.
The SEC’s order finds that Moloney violated Sections 206(2), 206(3), 206(4), and 207 of the
Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-7 thereunder, and that Medley caused Moloney’s violations of
Sections 206(2), 206(3), 206(4), and 207 of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-7 thereunder.
Without admitting or denying the findings, Moloney and Medley agreed to a cease-and-desist
order, Moloney agreed to pay a civil penalty of $34,000, and Medley agreed to a pay a civil
penalty of $7,500.

The SEC’s investigation was conducted by Ana P. Doncic of the Chicago office, and supervised
by Barry Isenman. The investigation followed the examination conducted by the Chicago office
examination staff of Emad Elsebaie, Stacey Gohl, Jack Howard, Vanessa Horton and Erik Lillya.
See also: Order

