UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77852 / May 18, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17068
ORDER MAKING FINDINGS AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

In the Matter of
SALVATORE RENALDI,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) previously instituted public
administrative proceedings against Salvatore Renaldi (“Renaldi” or “Respondent”) pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) on January 27, 2016. The
Commission now deems it appropriate and in the public interest to enter this Order Making
Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (“Order”).
II.
Respondent has submitted an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has
determined to accept. Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings
brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without
admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him
and the subject matter of these proceedings and the findings contained in Section III.B.1 below,
which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order, as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
A.

RESPONDENT

From May 2012 to approximately September 2015, Respondent acted as an
unregistered broker. Specifically, Respondent solicited investors through the phone and other
means to make investments in companies that purportedly provided mobile marketing, publishing
and advertising services. Respondent used several companies to solicit funds from investors:
Sanctum Publishing & Marketing, Limited, Inc. (“SPM”), Sanctum Media Group, Inc. (“SMG”),
and The Sanctum Group of Companies, Inc. (“SGC”) (collectively, “Sanctum”), and was the CEO

of each of the Sanctum entities. Respondent solicited money from investors by making materially
false and fraudulent representations, and by concealing and omitting material facts concerning,
among other things, his financial industry experience, the profitability of the investments offered,
and the misappropriation of money from investors for the benefit of Respondent and his sales
agents. Specifically, Respondent and his sales agents falsely represented to investors that invested
funds would be used to grow the Sanctum entities’ mobile marketing, publishing, and finance
businesses. Instead, Respondent misappropriated funds and spent investor money on personal
expenses. Respondent hired sales agents, gave them offering materials for each of the Sanctum
entities’ securities offerings, and compensated them for their solicitation efforts. Respondent, 48
years old, is a resident of Wellington, Florida.
B.

ENTRY OF THE JUDGMENT AGAINST RESPONDENT

1. On January 5, 2016, a final default judgment was entered against Respondent,
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 15(a) and 17(a) of the Securities Act
of 1933, and Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, in the civil action
entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Salvatore Renaldi, et al., Civil Action Number
9:15-CV-81342, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida.
2. The Commission’s complaint alleged that, from at least 2012 until September
2015, Respondent raised at least $1.5 million dollars through offerings of stock, notes, and
debentures to investors in Florida and elsewhere. Respondent misappropriated investor funds,
falsely stated to investors that their funds were invested, falsely touted his financial industry
expertise, yet failed to disclose his prior civil and criminal violations of the securities laws, and
otherwise engaged in a variety of conduct that operated as a fraud and deceit on investors. The
complaint also alleged that Respondent solicited investors directly and through sales agents, to
whom he paid commissions and provided offering materials for investors, at a time when he was
neither registered as nor associated with a broker-dealer. The complaint also alleged that
Respondent used the mail and instrumentalities of interstate commerce to offer and sell securities.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest
to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Renaldi’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is HEREBY ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange
Act, that Respondent Renaldi be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer,
investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally
recognized statistical rating organization; and
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent Renaldi be, and hereby is
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter,
finder, consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer
for purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce
the purchase or sale of any penny stock.

2

Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

