UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77204 / February 22, 2016
Admin. Proc. File No. 3-16293
In the Matter of the Application of
LAURIE BEBO, and JOHN BUONO, CPA

ORDER PARTIALLY
GRANTING MOTION FOR A
PROTECTIVE ORDER

On November 13, 2015, Laurie A. Bebo (“Respondent”) filed an application for review
of an administrative law judge’s initial decision.1 Respondent filed her opening brief on January
28, 2016. In conjunction with her opening brief, Respondent filed a financial disclosure
statement, pursuant to Rule of Practice 410(c),2 as well as the instant motion for a protective
order to prevent the release of her disclosure statements, pursuant to Rule of Practice 322. 3
Respondent submits that her motion should be granted because “[her] disclosure statement
includes highly confidential financial information and personally identifiable information (e.g.,
social security number and address), spanning several years, which would result in substantial
harm if released to the public.” She further contends that “there is no benefit to requir[ing] the
disclosure of [the] information, because the public does not benefit from the disclosure of these
documents, and the Division and the Commission will still receive copies of the financial
disclosure statement for their consideration.” The Division of Enforcement has not responded to
Bebo’s request for a protective order.
Although “[d]ocuments and testimony introduced in a public hearing are presumed to be
public,”4 Rule 322 allows a party to “file a motion requesting a protective order to limit from
disclosure to other parties or to the public documents or testimony that contain confidential
information.”5 The Rule further provides that “[a] motion for a protective order shall be granted

1

Laurie Bebo and John Buono, CPA, Initial Decision Rel. No. 893 (Oct. 2, 2015),
112 SEC Docket 10, 2015 WL 5769700.
2

17 C.F.R. § 201.410.

3

17 C.F.R. § 201.322.

4

17 C.F.R. § 201.322(b).

5

17 C.F.R. § 201.322(a).

only upon a finding that the harm resulting from disclosure would outweigh the benefits of
disclosure.”6
Respondent’s motion clearly identifies the information she seeks to protect and offers an
explanation as to why the harm resulting from disclosure would outweigh the benefits of
disclosure. The financial disclosure statement that Respondent submitted contains sensitive
information and, at this stage in the proceeding, the harm resulting from complete disclosure
appears to outweigh the benefits. However, we have determined that disclosure of certain
information included in the record will be necessary to the resolution of the issues before us.
Accordingly, IT IS ORDERED that:
1.
Except as otherwise provided in this Order, the Confidential Information shall be
disclosed only to the parties to this action, their counsel, the Commission, any staff advising the
Commission in its deliberative processes with respect to this proceeding, and in the event of an
appeal of the Commission's determination, any staff acting for the Commission in connection
with that appeal.
2.
All persons who receive access to the Confidential Information shall keep it
confidential and, except as provided in this Order, shall not divulge the Confidential Information
to any person.
3.
No person to whom the Confidential Information is disclosed shall make any
copies or otherwise use such Confidential Information, except in connection with this proceeding
or any appeal thereof.
4.
The Office of the Secretary shall place the Confidential Information in sealed
envelopes or other sealed containers marked with the title of this action, identifying each
document, and marked “CONFIDENTIAL.”
5.
The requirements of sealing and confidentiality shall not apply to any reference to
the existence of the Confidential Information or to citation of particular information contained
therein in testimony, oral argument, briefs, opinions, or in any other similar use directly
connected with this action or any appeal thereof.
6.
The Commission expressly reserves the authority to reach a different conclusion
regarding the confidentiality of the Confidential Information covered by this Order at any time
before it determines the issues raised in the proceeding.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary
6

17 C.F.R. § 201.322(b).

