UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 79001 / September 30, 2016

The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) announced the temporary
suspension, pursuant to Section 12(k) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange
Act"), of trading in the securities of Rainbow International, Inc., a/k/a Raintree Brands
Incorporated, ("RNBI"), of Centennial, Colorado, commencing at 9:30 a.m. EDT on September
30, 2016, and terminating at 11:59 p.m. EDT on October 13, 2016.
The Commission temporarily suspended trading in the securities of RNBI because it has
confirmed for the Commission staff that the company is no longer operating. In addition, there
is a lack of accurate information concerning the securities of RNBI because in Form 8-Ks filed
with the Commission on May 5, 2014, May 12, 2014, and Sept. 4, 2014 by Rainbow, the
company appears to have made false and misleading statements concerning, among other
things, a purported acquisition, company business relationships, its purported development of
products, purported rental revenues, and a purported purchase of company shares by a
company officer. The company appears not to have made any information publicly available
about itself for approximately two years. This order was entered pursuant to Section 12(k) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act).
The Commission cautions broker-dealers, shareholders, and prospective purchasers that they
should carefully consider the foregoing information along with all other currently available
information and any information subsequently issued by the company.
Further, brokers and dealers should be alert to the fact that, pursuant to Rule 15c2-11 under
the Exchange Act, at the termination of the trading suspension, no quotation may be entered
unless and until they have strictly complied with all of the provisions of the rule. If any broker or
dealer has any questions as to whether or not he has complied with the rule, he should not
enter any quotation but immediately contact the staff in the Division of Trading and Markets,
Office of Interpretation and Guidance, at (202) 551-5777. If any broker or dealer is uncertain as
to what is required by Rule 15c2-11, he should refrain from entering quotations relating to RNBI
securities until such time as he has familiarized himself with the rule and is certain that all of its
provisions have been met. If any broker or dealer enters any quotation which is in violation of
the rule, the Commission will consider the need for prompt enforcement action.
If any broker-dealer or other person has any information which may relate to this matter, the
Denver Regional office of the Securities and Exchange Commission should be telephoned at
(303) 844-1000.

