UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77094 / February 9, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17108
ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-ANDDESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT
TO SECTION 21C OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934, MAKING FINDINGS, AND
IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST
ORDER

In the Matter of
JARROD L. SPECTOR,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate
that cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Jarrod L. Spector
(“Spector” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an
Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely
for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of
the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying
the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject
matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section
V, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings
Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and
Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds1 that:
Summary
1.
This matter involves insider trading by Spector in the securities of GSI
Commerce, Inc. (“GSI”) in advance of the March 28, 2011 announcement that eBay, Inc.
(“EBAY”) had agreed to acquire GSI.
2.
On or about February 24, 2011, Spector learned material nonpublic
information about the acquisition of GSI from an individual with whom he has a
relationship of trust and confidence (“Individual A”). Spector misappropriated the
material nonpublic information about the acquisition of GSI in breach of the duty of trust
and confidence he owed to Individual A when he traded based on the information.
3.
On or about February 25, 2011, Spector purchased out of the money GSI
call options on the basis of the material nonpublic information he had received. As a
result of his improper use of the insider information, Spector garnered trading profits of
$21,350.
4.
As a result of the conduct described above, Spector violated Section 10(b)
of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.
Respondent
5.
Jarrod L. Spector, age 34 resides in New York, NY. During the relevant
time period, Spector was self-employed in New York City.
Other Relevant Parties
6.
GSI Commerce, Inc., an e-commerce company, was during the relevant
time period headquartered in King of Prussia, PA. Its common stock was registered with
the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act until after it was acquired
by EBAY. GSI’s common stock traded on the NASDAQ (former ticker symbol GSIC)
and options on GSI’s stock traded on multiple U.S. options exchanges.
7.
Individual A resides in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Individual A
was married to a GSI employee and resided in Pennsylvania during the relevant time
period.

1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.

2

Facts
8.
Individual A first learned of the possible acquisition of GSI by EBAY
from Individual A’s spouse, a GSI employee who possessed material nonpublic
information concerning GSI’s operations and management, on or about January 30, 2011.
Individual A knew that the information about the possible acquisition of GSI by EBAY
was material and nonpublic, and that Individual A had an obligation to maintain the
confidentiality of the information.
9.
Discussions continued between representatives of GSI and EBAY
throughout February and March 2011. Negotiations culminated in the execution of a final
agreement in the early morning of March 28, 2011.
10.
Individual A and Spector have a relationship of trust and confidence built
on years of sharing personal and professional confidences about their lives which they
understood were to be maintained confidentially.
11.
On or about February 24, 2011, Individual A told Spector about the
upcoming acquisition of GSI. Spector knew that the information about the upcoming
acquisition of GSI was material and nonpublic, and that Individual A had an expectation
that he would not use or disclose the information to others based on their history of
sharing confidences. Spector knew that he owed Individual A a duty of trust and
confidence to keep confidential the material nonpublic information that he learned from
his conversation with Individual A. Spector violated this duty of trust and confidence by
trading on the basis of this material nonpublic information.
12.
On February 25, 2011, Spector purchased 50 out of the money April 2011
GSI call options contracts at a strike price of $25.
13.
Early in the morning on Monday, March 28, 2011, GSI and EBAY
executed the merger agreement. NASDAQ halted trading in GSI shares at 9:22 a.m. that
morning based on pending news. At 10:05 a.m., GSI and EBAY announced that the
companies had entered into a definitive agreement to merge, whereby EBAY would
acquire GSI for $29.25 per share, or a total consideration of approximately $2.4 billion.
14.
The market reacted significantly to the news. The closing last sale price of
GSI on the day of the announcement was $29.20, an increase of approximately 50.6%
over the prior day’s close. Trading volume on the day of the announcement was 42.6
million shares, compared to GSI’s historical average daily volume of approximately 1.1
million shares.
15.
On April 18, 2011, Spector exercised his 50 GSI options contracts and
purchased 5,000 shares at $25 per share, for a total purchase price of $125,000.
Immediately thereafter Spector sold the 5,000 GSI shares he had purchased and garnered
$21,350 in profits.

3

16.
Spector’s purchase of the GSI options on February 25, 2011 was on the
basis of material nonpublic information about the upcoming acquisition of GSI that he
had unlawfully misappropriated from Individual A. Spector had learned this information
through his discussion with Individual A, and knew he had a duty to maintain the
information in confidence and refrain from trading on it.
17.
As a result of the conduct described above, Spector violated Section 10(b)
of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct in
connection with the purchase or sale of securities.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the
sanctions agreed to in Respondent Spector’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent Spector cease and
desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Section 10(b)
of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.
B.
Respondent shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay
disgorgement of $21,350, prejudgment interest of $3,014, and a civil money penalty in the
amount of $21,350 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general
fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If timely
payment of disgorgement and prejudgment interest is not made, additional interest shall
accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600. If timely payment of the civil penalty is not
made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717. Payment must be made
in one of the following ways:
(1)

Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the
Commission, which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire
instructions upon request;

(2)

Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via
Pay.gov through the SEC website at
http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or
United States postal money order, made payable to the Securities
and Exchange Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
4

Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter
identifying Jarrod L. Spector as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of
these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to
Scott Friestad, Associate Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange
Commission, 100 F St., NE, Washington, DC 20549-5010.
C.
Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order
shall be treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax
purposes. To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in
any Related Investor Action, he shall not argue that he is entitled to, nor shall he benefit by,
offset or reduction of any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of
Respondent’s payment of a civil penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset"). If the court in
any Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that he shall,
within 30 days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty Offset, notify the
Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to the
Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional
civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty imposed in
this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action" means a
private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more
investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the
Commission in this proceeding.
V.
It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in
Section 523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true
and admitted by Respondent, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest,
civil penalty or other amounts due by Respondent under this Order or any other judgment,
order, consent order, decree or settlement agreement entered in connection with this
proceeding, is a debt for the violation by Respondent of the federal securities laws or any
regulation or order issued under such laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the
Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19).

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

5

