UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77649 / April 19, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4372 / April 19, 2016
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 32076 / April 19, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17217
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASEAND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 15(b) AND
21C OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, SECTIONS
203(e), 203(f), AND 203(k) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF
1940, AND SECTION 9(b) OF THE
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF
1940

In the Matter of
TPG ADVISORS LLC
d/b/a THE PHILLIPS
GROUP ADVISORS,
AND LARRY M.
PHILLIPS,
Respondents.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate
and in the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be,
and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Sections 15(b)(6) and 21C of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), Sections 203(e), 203(f) and 203(k) of the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”), and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act
of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”) against TPG Advisors LLC (d/b/a The Phillips
Group Advisors) (“TPG”) and Larry M. Phillips (“Phillips”) (collectively, “Respondents”).
II.
After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement alleges that:

A.

SUMMARY

1.
Phillips, the sole owner and principal of TPG, an investment adviser
registered with the Commission, engaged in fraudulent trade allocations – “cherry-picking.”
From at least January 2010 to at least August 2014, Phillips unfairly and systematically
allocated profitable trades to a set of accounts while other accounts were harmed by the
allocation of unprofitable trades.
B.

RESPONDENTS

2.
TPG Advisors, LLC, is a California limited liability company with
its principal place of business in Woodland Hills, California and has been registered with
the Commission as an investment adviser since October 2009. According to its Form ADV
filed in May 2015, TPG had approximately 280 clients, 852 accounts, and a total of $220
million in assets under management. TPG is wholly owned and controlled by Phillips.
TPG’s clients are almost all individuals and families.
3.
Larry M. Phillips, age 66, resides in Westlake Village, California.
Phillips is the sole owner, principal, and CCO of TPG, which he formed in 2009. Phillips
is also a registered representative associated with a registered broker-dealer. Phillips has
been licensed since 1971 and holds Series 1, 8, 15, 63, 65, 101, and PC licenses. Phillips
has been the subject of three disciplinary actions: (1) in 2005, pursuant to a settlement with
NASD, Phillips agreed to be suspended from association for ten days and to a fine of
$20,000 for making misleading statements and for failing to disclose material facts
regarding investment products and strategies in written communications to investors; (2) in
2006, based on the NASD claim, Phillips agreed to be barred by the State of Illinois from
offering or selling securities for two years and to pay $1,000 in costs; and (3) in 2015,
pursuant to a settlement with FINRA, Phillips agreed to a forty-five day suspension from
association, a $7,500 fine, and $3,436.81 in restitution to customers based on claims that
Phillips overcharged certain customers by charging both a markup and investment advisory
fees on the same products in violation of FINRA Rule 2010 and MSRB Rule G-17.
C.

RESPONDENTS’ CHERRY-PICKING SCHEME
1.

TPG’s Trade Allocation Policies

4.
TPG’s Forms ADV Part 2A, which were provided to clients, stated
that TPG sought “to allocate trade executions in a most equitable manner possible” through
“consistently non-arbitrary methods of allocation.” All ten Forms ADV Part 2A filed by
TPG from February 2011 through May 2015 used the same language. TPG’s internal
written policies and procedures required equitable trade allocation. Specifically, TPG’s
compliance manual states: “TPG will not allocate trades in such a way that TPG’s own or
affiliated account(s) (including those of supervised persons) or selected Clients receive
more favorable treatment than TPG’s other Client accounts.” TPG’s compliance manual
also states that in any aggregated trade, “[n]o advisory Client will be favored over any other
Client,” and that the adviser would “prepare, before entering an aggregated order, a written

2

statement (Allocation Statement) specifying the participating Client accounts and how it
intends to allocate the order among those Clients.” To ensure that no account was favored,
the compliance manual stated that “[p]eriodic reviews should be conducted to ensure no
accounts are being systematically disadvantaged.”
2.

TPG and Phillips Favored Certain Accounts

5.
Contrary to TPG’s Forms ADV Part 2A and internal policies and
procedures, Phillips did not allocate equities and options trades equitably. From at least
January 2010 to August 2014, Phillips unfairly allocated a disproportionate number of
profitable equity and options trades to at least six favored accounts held by at least four
favored clients and allocated unprofitable trades to certain other, disfavored client accounts.
Phillips had personal connections to the favored clients, which included (1) Phillips’
lifelong family friend; (2) Phillips’ cousin; (3) a long-standing, high-net worth client with a
background in the entertainment industry; and (4) a client whom Phillips had served for
over twenty years and whose mother had also been a longtime client of Phillips.
6.
TPG’s client accounts are held in custody by a third-party broker.
TPG and Phillips traded securities initially in a master account without allocating the trade
to a specific client account. If a security could be bought and sold in a day for a profit, then
TPG and Phillips usually allocated those profitable “day trades” to favored accounts. To
do so, the position would be closed in the master account, a positive gain would be realized
on the trade and that profitable day trade would then be allocated to one of the favored
accounts. But if the security could not be closed for a gain on the day it was purchased, the
security was not sold and was usually allocated to one of the disfavored accounts. TPG’s
favored clients received first-day profits on day trades that were virtually impossible to
have achieved by chance.
7.
Certain accounts had a large proportion of day trades, while other
accounts had almost none. For the six most-favored accounts, more than 90% of the trades
were day trades and more than 90% of the trades in the account had single-day profits. By
contrast, in at least eleven accounts in which only a small proportion of the trades were day
trades, the vast majority of trades had unrealized losses in the first day.
8.
The performance in each of the six most-favored accounts is a
statistical anomaly. The likelihood that their profitability originated from random chance is
less than 1%. Similarly, the performance in each of the eleven harmed accounts is also a
statistical anomaly. Random chance would have provided them with better performance
with a probability exceeding 99%.
9.
By disproportionately allocating the more favorable trades to the
favored accounts through this cherry picking scheme, TPG and Phillips provided a benefit
to the favored clients and inflicted harm on the disfavored clients.
10.
TPG and Phillips had been expressly warned about their allocation
process by the third-party broker that maintained custody of the accounts. Between March
2010 and January 2015, the third-party broker’s trade allocation surveillance system

3

flagged TPG for suspicious trade allocations at least twenty-one times. From August 2010
to December 2012, the broker’s employees called Phillips at least five times about TPG’s
allocation practices, each time making suggestions that Phillips disregarded. The broker’s
employees instructed Phillips to trade directly in the clients’ accounts instead of the master
accounts, but Phillips failed to follow the broker’s instructions. The broker also suggested,
and Phillips appeared to agree, that the accounts receiving the profitable day trades at issue
be moved to another master account so they could be identified as day-trading accounts,
but Phillips failed to comply with that suggestion. While TPG has multiple master
accounts, only one is used regularly and no master account appears to be limited to the daytrading clients.
D.

VIOLATIONS

11.
By knowingly or recklessly allocating profitable trades to certain
clients at the expense of other clients and by making false and misleading statements to
clients concerning trade allocation, TPG and Phillips willfully violated Section 10(b) of the
Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct in connection
with the purchase or sale of securities. In the alternative, Phillips willfully aided and
abetted and caused TPG’s violations. Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act makes it
unlawful for any person to use or employ, in connection with the purchase or sale of any
security, any manipulative or deceptive device or contrivance in contravention of such
rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe. Rule 10b-5 under the Exchange
Act makes it unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, (a) to employ any device,
scheme, or artifice to defraud, (b) to make any untrue statement of material fact or omit to
state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and (c) to engage in any act,
practice, or course of business which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon
any person.
12.
In addition, by engaging in this cherry-picking scheme, TPG and
Phillips breached their fiduciary duty to clients and willfully violated Sections 206(1) and
206(2) of the Advisers Act, and in the alternative, Phillips willfully aided and abetted and
caused TPG’s violations. TPG and Phillips made false and misleading statements to clients
and omitted disclosure of TPG’s inequitable trade allocation practices. By engaging in the
cherry-picking scheme, and by making materially false and misleading statements and
material omissions, TPG and Phillips breached their fiduciary duty to clients and willfully
violated Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act. Section 206(1) of the Advisers
Act prohibits any investment adviser from employing any device, scheme, or artifice to
defraud any client or prospective client, and Section 206(2) of the Advisers Act prohibits
any investment adviser from engaging in any transaction, practice, or course of business
which operates as a fraud or deceit upon any client or prospective client.
13.
As a result of making untrue statements of material fact in the Forms
ADV Part 2A filed with the Commission, TPG and Phillips willfully violated Section 207
of the Advisers Act, and in the alternative, Phillips willfully aided and abetted and caused
TPG’s violations. Section 207 makes it “unlawful for any person willfully to make any
untrue statement of a material fact in any registration application or report filed with the
4

Commission . . . or willfully to omit to state in any such application or report any material
fact which is required to be stated therein.”
III.
In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement, the Commission
deems it necessary and appropriate in the public interest that public administrative and
cease-and-desist proceedings be instituted to determine:
A.
Whether the allegations set forth in Section II hereof are true and, in
connection therewith, to afford Respondents an opportunity to establish any defenses to such
allegations;
B.
What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against
Phillips pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act including, but not limited to,
disgorgement and civil penalties pursuant to Section 21B of the Exchange Act.
C.
What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against
Respondents pursuant to Section 203(e) and 203(f) of the Advisers Act including, but not
limited to, disgorgement and civil penalties pursuant to Section 203 of the Advisers Act;
D.
What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against
Respondents pursuant to Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act including, but not
limited to, disgorgement and civil penalties pursuant to Section 9 of the Investment
Company Act; and
E.
Whether, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act and Section 203(k)
of the Advisers Act, Respondents should be ordered to cease and desist from committing or
causing violations of and any future violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and
Rule 10b-5 thereunder and Sections 206(1), 206(2), and 207 of the Advisers Act, whether
Respondent should be ordered to pay a civil penalty pursuant to Section 21B(a) of the
Exchange Act, Section 203(i) of the Advisers Act, and Section 9(d) of the Investment
Company Act, and whether Respondent should be ordered to pay disgorgement pursuant
Sections 21B(e) and 21C(e) of the Exchange Act, Section 203(j) of the Advisers Act, and
Section 9 of the Investment Company Act.
IV.
IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the
questions set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened not earlier than 30 days and not
later than 60 days from service of this Order at a time and place to be fixed, and before an
Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 of the
Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.110.

5

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent shall file an Answer to the allegations
contained in this Order within twenty (20) days after service of this Order, as provided by
Rule 220 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220.
If Respondent fails to file the directed answer, or fails to appear at a hearing after
being duly notified, the Respondent may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be
determined against him upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of which may be
deemed to be true as provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f) and 310 of the Commission’s
Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. §§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f) and 201.310.
This Order shall be served forthwith upon Respondent as provided for in the
Commission’s Rules of Practice.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an
initial decision no later than 300 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to
Rule 360(a)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.
In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission
engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually
related proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter,
except as witness or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice. Since this proceeding is
not “rule making” within the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it
is not deemed subject to the provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any
final Commission action.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

6

