U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C.
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78067 / June 15, 2016

The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (Commission) announced the temporary
suspension of trading in the securities of MIT Holding, Inc. (MITD), commencing at 9:30 a.m.
EDT on June 15, 2016 and terminating at 11:59 p.m. EDT on June 28, 2016:
The Commission temporarily suspended trading in the securities of Mit Holding, Inc. due to a
lack of current and accurate information about the company because it has not filed certain
periodic reports with the Commission and also filed certain reports with financial statements that
were not audited and/or reviewed by an auditor as required by Commission rules. This order
was entered pursuant to Section 12(k) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act).
The Commission cautions brokers, dealers, shareholders and prospective purchasers that they
should carefully consider the foregoing information along with all other currently available
information and any information subsequently issued by this company.
Brokers and dealers should be alert to the fact that, pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 15c2-11, at
the termination of the trading suspension, no quotation may be entered relating to the securities
of the subject company unless and until the broker or dealer has strictly complied with all of the
provisions of the rule. If any broker or dealer is uncertain as to what is required by the rule, it
should refrain from entering quotations relating to the securities of this company that have been
subject to a trading suspension until such time as it has familiarized itself with the rule and is
certain that all of its provisions have been met. Any broker or dealer with questions regarding
the rule should contact the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission in Washington, DC
at (202) 551-5720. If any broker or dealer enters any quotation which is in violation of the rule,
the Commission will consider the need for prompt enforcement action.
If any broker, dealer or other person has any information which may relate to this matter, they
should immediately communicate it to the Delinquent Filings Branch of the Division of
Enforcement at (202) 551-5466, or by e-mail at DelinquentFilings@sec.gov.

