UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78736 / August 31, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4518 / August 31, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17523

In the Matter of

ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934 AND SECTION 203(f)
OF THE INVESTMENT ADVISERS
ACT OF 1940, MAKING FINDINGS,
AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL
SANCTIONS

PAUL MATA,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in
the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant
to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 203(f) of the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Paul Mata (“Respondent”).
II.
Respondent has submitted an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission
has determined to accept. Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings
brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without
admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him
and the subject matter of these proceedings and the findings contained in Section III.2 below,
which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative
Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 203(f)
of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions
(“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
1

On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
A.

RESPONDENT

1.
Paul Mata is the founder and manager of two unregistered investment funds,
Secured Capital Investments, LLC (“SCI”) and Logos Real Estate Holdings, LLC (“LREH”)
(collectively the “Funds”). From August 1988 until his termination in March 2009, Mata was the
registered principal and supervisor for an independent contractor investment advisory branch
office of Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc., a registered broker-dealer and investment adviser.
Ameriprise terminated Mata for violating company policies by selling away, recommending that
clients take out risky loans to finance investments, presenting unapproved seminars, employing
individuals without conducting proper background checks, and operating SCI as a competing
investment company. Thereafter, Mata formed Logos Wealth Advisors, where he served as
principal and investment adviser representative. In addition, Mata founded Logos Lifetime
University, which also provides financial planning seminars and investment advisory services.
Mata, age 52, resides in Upland, California.
B.

ENTRY OF THE INJUNCTION

2.
On June 17, 2016, a final judgment was entered by consent against Mata,
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 5 and 17(a) of the Securities Act of
1933, Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and
Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act, in the civil action entitled Securities and
Exchange Commission v. Paul Mata, et al., Civil Action Number 5:15-cv-01792-VAP-KK, in
the United States District Court for the Central District of California.
3.
The Commission’s complaint alleged that, from 2008 through the present,
Mata raised over $14 million over 100 investors by soliciting investments in SCI and LREH.
(collectively, the “Funds”). Mata induced investors into investing in the Funds using online
videos, investment seminars promising “Indestructible Wealth,” and presentations to church
groups promising “Finances God’s Way.” Mata falsely promised “guaranteed” returns,
misrepresented SCI’s use of proceeds, misused investor funds, failed to disclose his disciplinary
history and his control of SCI to his advisory clients, and otherwise engaged in a variety of
conduct that operated as a fraud and deceit on investors. Finally, the securities of SCI and LREH
were never registered with the SEC, as is required under the registration provisions of the federal
securities laws.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest
to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act, that Respondent Mata be, and
hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal
securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating
2

organization, and barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as
a promoter, finder, consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker,
dealer or issuer for purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or
attempting to induce the purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable
laws and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a
number of factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following:
(a) any disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully
or partially waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the
conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization
arbitration award to a customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for
the Commission order; and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or
not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

3

