UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77313 / March 8, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17156
In the Matter of
eCareer Holdings, Inc.,
Respondent.

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(j) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND REVOKING
REGISTRATION OF SECURITIES

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it necessary and
appropriate for the protection of investors that proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant
to Section 12(j) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against eCareer
Holdings, Inc. (“eCareer” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting
Proceedings Pursuant to Section 12(j) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings,
and Revoking Registration of Securities (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds1 that
A.
eCareer is a Boca Raton, Florida-based reporting company that operated an online
staffing business. The common stock of eCareer has been registered under Section 12(g) of the
Exchange Act since December 17, 2013. eCareer’s stock was quoted on the OTCBB with the
ticker symbol ECHI. The company is now under the control of the Court-appointed Receiver.
B.
eCareer has failed to comply with Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules
13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder, while its common stock was registered with the Commission in that
it has not filed an Annual Report on Form 10-K since the fiscal year ending June 30, 2014 or
periodic or quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for any fiscal period subsequent to its fiscal quarter
ending December 31, 2014.
IV.
Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act provides as follows:
The Commission is authorized, by order, as it deems necessary or appropriate for the
protection of investors to deny, to suspend the effective date of, to suspend for a period not
exceeding twelve months, or to revoke the registration of a security, if the Commission finds, on
the record after notice and opportunity for hearing, that the issuer of such security has failed to
comply with any provision of this title or the rules and regulations thereunder. No member of a
national securities exchange, broker, or dealer shall make use of the mails or any means or
instrumentality of interstate commerce to effect any transaction in, or to induce the purchase or sale
of, any security the registration of which has been and is suspended or revoked pursuant to the
preceding sentence.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission finds that it is necessary and appropriate for the
protection of investors to impose the sanction specified in Respondent’s Offer.

Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, pursuant to Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act, that
registration of each class of Respondent’s securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the
Exchange Act be, and hereby is, revoked.
By the Commission.
Brent J. Fields
Secretary
1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer and are not binding on any other
person or entity in this or any other proceeding.
2

