SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
17 CFR Part 240
[Release No. 34-76922; File No. S7-15-15]
RIN 3235-AL74
Access to Data Obtained by Security-Based Swap Data Repositories and Exemption from
Indemnification Requirement
AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission.
ACTION: Reopening of comment period.
SUMMARY: The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) is reopening the
comment period for proposed amendments to rule 13n-4 under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (“Exchange Act”) related to regulatory access to security-based swap data held by securitybased swap data repositories. The proposed rule amendments would implement Exchange Act
provisions that conditionally require that security-based swap data repositories make data
available to certain regulators and other authorities. Recent legislation has modified certain
underlying statutory provisions.
DATES: Submit comments on or before February 22, 2016.
ADDRESSES: Comments may be submitted by any of the following methods:
Electronic comments:

•

Use the Commission’s Internet comment form
(http://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed.shtml); or

•

Send an e-mail to rule-comments@sec.gov. Please include File Number S7-15-15 on the
subject line; or

2
•

Use the Federal eRulemaking Portal (http://www.regulations.gov). Follow the
instructions for submitting comments.

Paper Comments:
•

Send paper comments to Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street,
NE, Washington, DC 20549-1090.

All submissions should refer to File Number S7-15-15. This file number should be included on
the subject line if e-mail is used. To help us process and review your comments more efficiently,
please use only one method. The Commission will post all comments on the Commission’s
Internet website (http://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed.shtml). Comments are also available for
website viewing and printing in the Commission’s Public Reference Room, 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, DC 20549 on official business days between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m.
All comments received will be posted without change; the Commission does not edit personal
identifying information from submissions. You should submit only information that you wish to
make available publicly.
Studies, memoranda, or other substantive items may be added by the Commission or staff
to the comment file during this rulemaking. A notification of the inclusion in the comment file
of any such materials will be made available on the SEC’s website. To ensure direct electronic
receipt of such notifications, sign up through the “Stay Connected” option at www.sec.gov to
receive notifications by e-mail.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Carol McGee, Assistant Director, Joshua
Kans, Senior Special Counsel, or Kateryna P. Imus, Attorney-Adviser, at (202) 551-5870;
Division of Trading and Markets, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, DC 20549-7010.

3
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
I.

Introduction

A. Proposed Rule
Exchange Act sections 13(n)(5)(G) and (H), which were added by Title VII of the DoddFrank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, conditionally require securitybased swap data repositories to make data available to certain regulators and other entities. The
statute identifies certain entities as being eligible to access data, and states that the Commission
may determine that other persons are appropriate to access such data. The statute further
provides that the Commission must be notified of requests for access, and also conditions data
access on the security-based swap data repository receiving certain confidentiality-related
agreements. Moreover, under the statute as it was originally enacted in 2010, data access was
conditional on the recipient entity agreeing to indemnify the repository and the Commission for
expenses arising from litigation relating to the information provided. 1
On September 14, 2015, the Commission proposed rules to implement those data access
provisions. 2 Key features of the proposal included:
(i)

Designation of entities that may access data. The proposal provided that, in
addition to the entities identified by the statute, the Federal Reserve Banks and the
Office of Financial Research (“OFR”) may access data. 3 The proposal also
specified factors and conditions that the Commission would consider in making

1

See generally Access to Data Obtained by Security-Based Swap Data Repositories and
Exemption From Indemnification Requirement, Exchange Act Release No. 75845 (Sept. 14, 2015), 80 FR
55182 (Sept. 14, 2015) (“Data Access Proposing Release”).
2

The proposal built upon two prior Commission proposals to implement the data access provisions
and to provide an exemption from the indemnification requirement. See id. at 55182-84.

3

See proposed Exchange Act rule 13n-4(b)(9)(ix).

4
future determinations regarding entities eligible to access data and the scope of
such entities’ access to data. In that regard the Commission stated that it
preliminarily expected that such determination orders “typically would
incorporate conditions that specify the scope of a relevant authority’s access to
data, and that limit this access in a manner that reflects the relevant authority’s
regulatory mandates or legal responsibility or authority.” 4
(ii)

Confidentiality condition to data access. To implement the statutory
confidentiality condition, the proposal provided that there must be a memorandum
of understanding (“MOU”) or other arrangement between the Commission and
the recipient of data to address the confidentiality of the data provided to the
recipient. 5 The Commission stated that it expected this approach would help avoid
the possibility of uneven and potentially inconsistent application of the
confidentiality condition. 6

(iii)

Notification requirement. The proposal provided that a security-based swap data
repository could satisfy the statutory notification requirement by notifying the
Commission of the first data access request by an entity, and maintaining a record
of subsequent requests. 7

(iv)

Indemnification exemption. The proposal included an exemption from the
indemnification requirement. This exemption would have been conditioned, in

4

See Data Access Proposing Release, 80 FR 55187-88.

5

See proposed Exchange Act rule 13n-4(b)(10).

6

See Data Access Proposing Release, 80 FR 55190.

7

See id. at 55188-89; proposed Exchange Act rule 13n-4(e).

5
part, on the information provided relating to “persons or activities within the
recipient entity’s regulatory mandate, or legal responsibility or authority.” 8
B. Statutory Amendment
On December 4, 2015, President Obama signed into law Public Law 114-94, the Surface
Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2015. This law, among other things,
amended the statutory data access provisions by eliminating the indemnification requirement
discussed above. 9 The law also revised the data access provisions in two other ways. 10
The elimination of the indemnification requirement makes unnecessary paragraph (d) of
proposed rule 13n-4, which would have implemented the conditional exemption from the
indemnification requirement. 11 The statutory amendments, however, do not affect the proposed
provisions: (i) addressing the designation of additional entities as being eligible to access data
(potentially including the Federal Reserve Banks and the OFR); (ii) implementing the
confidentiality condition to data access; and (iii) implementing the statutory notification
requirement.
8

See proposed Exchange Act rule 13n-4(d). The proposal also would require the Commission and
the recipient of data to enter into an MOU or other arrangement to specify the type of information that
would fall within this regulatory mandate, or legal responsibility or authority. See id.
9

See Pub. L. No. 114-94, sec. 86011(c)(2).

10

In part, the statutory revision clarified that the scope of the data access provision applies to
security-based swap data, not all data maintained by the repository. See Pub. L. No. 114-94, sec.
86011(c)(1)(A) (striking “all” and adding “security-based swap” in the introductory part of Exchange Act
section 13(n)(5)(G)). That focus on security-based swaps already was incorporated into the proposal.
See proposed Exchange Act rule 13n-4(b)(9).
The statutory revision also added the term “other foreign authorities” to the nonexclusive
statutory list of entities that the Commission may determine appropriate to access data under these
provisions. See Pub. L. No. 114-94, sec. 86011(c)(1)(B). That change is consistent with the proposal,
which used the term “including, but not limited to” in the relevant portion of the rule text (preceding the
specific references to foreign financial supervisors, foreign central banks, and foreign ministries). See
proposed Exchange Act rule 13n-4(b)(9)(x).
11

See Data Access Proposing Release, 80 FR at 55211.

6
II.

Request for Comments

Commenters are invited to discuss the proposal in light of the recent statutory
amendments. Commenters particularly are invited to address the impact, on the remaining
aspects of the proposal, arising from the elimination of the proposed indemnification exemption,
including the exemption’s proposed condition limiting access to security-based swap data to
persons or authorities within a relevant authority’s regulatory mandate or legal responsibility or
authority. For example, to what extent should those criteria related to an entity’s regulatory
mandate or legal responsibility and authority be used by the Commission as it implements the
confidentiality condition and/or the Commission’s determination authority?
Commenters further are invited to address whether the use of that limitation should vary
depending on the type of recipient entity. For example, should those criteria be considered
exclusively in conjunction with recipient authorities not specifically named in the statute,
including the Federal Reserve Banks and the OFR, or should those criteria instead be considered
in conjunction with access to data by all entities under these provisions? 12
In addition, commenters are requested to address whether the proposal should be revised
to address the other statutory changes to the data access provisions – such as addition of the term
“other foreign authorities” to the list of entities that the Commission may determine appropriate
to access data. For example, should the Commission revise proposed paragraph (b)(9)(x) of rule
13n-4 to specifically note that it may determine that “other foreign authorities” also may access
data pursuant to these provisions?

12

As noted above, the Commission stated that it preliminarily expected that subsequent determination
orders under the statute and proposed rule “typically would incorporate conditions that specify the scope
of a relevant authority’s access to data, and that limit this access in a manner that reflects the relevant
authority’s regulatory mandates or legal responsibility or authority.”

7
Commenters are also invited to address the impact of the statutory amendments on the
Commission’s economic analysis.
By the Commission.
Date: January 15, 2016

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

