UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 34-78570 / August 15, 2016

The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) announced the temporary
suspension, pursuant to Section 12(k) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange
Act”), of trading in the securities of Neuromama, Ltd (“NERO”), of Playas de Rosarito, Baja
California, Mexico at 9:30 a.m. EDT on August 15, 2016, and terminating at 11:59 p.m. EDT on
August 26, 2016.
The Commission temporarily suspended trading in the securities of NERO because of concerns
regarding the accuracy and adequacy of information in the marketplace about, among other
things, the identity of the persons in control of the company’s operations and management, false
statements to company shareholders and/or potential investors that the company has an
application pending for listing on the NASDAQ Stock Market, and potentially manipulative
transactions in the company’s stock. This order was entered pursuant to Section 12(k) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act).
The Commission acknowledges FINRA’s and OTC Markets Group’s assistance in this matter.
The Commission cautions broker-dealers, shareholders, and prospective purchasers that they
should carefully consider the foregoing information along with all other currently available
information and any information subsequently issued by the company.
Further, brokers and dealers should be alert to the fact that, pursuant to Rule 15c2-11 under the
Exchange Act, at the termination of the trading suspension, no quotation may be entered unless
and until they have strictly complied with all of the provisions of the rule. If any broker or dealer
has any questions as to whether or not he has complied with the rule, he should not enter any
quotation but immediately contact the staff in the Division of Trading and Markets, Office of
Interpretation and Guidance, at (202) 551-5777. If any broker or dealer is uncertain as to what is
required by Rule 15c2-11, he should refrain from entering quotations relating to NERO’s
securities until such time as he has familiarized himself with the rule and is certain that all of its
provisions have been met. If any broker or dealer enters any quotation which is in violation of
the rule, the Commission will consider the need for prompt enforcement action.
If any broker-dealer or other person has any information which may relate to this matter, contact
Spencer E. Bendell, Assistant Regional Director, Los Angeles Regional Office of the Securities
and Exchange Commission at (323) 965-3998.

