UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 34-77775 / May 6, 2016

The Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission") announced the temporary
suspension, pursuant to Section 12(k) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange
Act"), of trading in the securities of Striper Energy, Inc. ("CPCCD"), of Addison, Texas at 9:30
a.m. EDT on Friday, May 6, 2016, and terminating at 11:59 p.m. EDT on Thursday, May 19,
2016.
The Commission temporarily suspended trading in the securities of Striper Energy, Inc.
("Striper") due to a lack of current and accurate information about the company because of
questions regarding the accuracy and adequacy of publicly disseminated information
concerning, among other things, Striper’s operations and financial obligations. This order was
entered pursuant to Section 12(k) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act).
The Commission cautions broker-dealers, shareholders, and prospective purchasers that they
should carefully consider the foregoing information along with all other currently available
information and any information subsequently issued by the company.
Further, brokers and dealers should be alert to the fact that, pursuant to Rule 15c2-11 under
the Exchange Act, at the termination of the trading suspension, no quotation may be entered
unless and until they have strictly complied with all of the provisions of the rule. If any broker
or dealer has any questions as to whether or not he has complied with the rule, he should not
enter any quotation but immediately contact the staff in the Division of Trading and Markets,
Office of Interpretation and Guidance, at (202) 551-5777. If any broker or dealer is uncertain as
to what is required by Rule 15c2-11, he should refrain from entering quotations relating to
Striper’s securities until such time as he has familiarized himself with the rule and is certain that
all of its provisions have been met. If any broker or dealer enters any quotation which is in
violation of the rule, the Commission will consider the need for prompt enforcement action.
If any broker-dealer or other person has any information which may relate to this matter, the
Boston Regional office of the Securities and Exchange Commission should be telephoned at
(617) 573-8900.

