UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77398 / March 17, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-16658

In the Matter of the Application of
MICHAEL ALBERT DIPIETRO
For Review of Disciplinary Action Taken by
FINRA

OPINION OF THE COMMISSION
REGISTERED SECURITIES ASSOCIATION — REVIEW OF DISCIPLINARY
PROCEEDINGS
Registered securities association suspended associated person indefinitely because of his
failure to satisfy an arbitration award. Held, review proceeding is dismissed.
APPEARANCES:
Marie Mirch, Mirch Law LLP, for Michael Albert DiPietro
Alan Lawhead, Jennifer C. Brooks, and Celia L. Passaro, for the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority, Inc.
Appeal filed: June 29, 2015
Last brief received: November 13, 2015
Michael Albert DiPietro, a former registered representative of First Allied Securities, Inc.
(“First Allied”), seeks review of the decision by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority,
Inc. (“FINRA”) suspending him from associating with any FINRA member firm until DiPietro
satisfies an arbitration award, or until any of the recognized bases for nonpayment occur. It is
undisputed that an arbitration award was entered against DiPietro, he failed to pay any part of it,
and a federal district court denied his motion to vacate the award.

2
DiPietro contends that FINRA should have stayed its proceedings pending his appeal of
the district court’s order. He also argues that FINRA should have credited his bona fide inability
to pay as an excuse for his failure to satisfy the award. For the reasons explained below, both
arguments are meritless, and we dismiss DiPietro’s application for review. We base our findings
on an independent review of the record.
BACKGROUND
In October 2004, First Allied engaged DiPietro to sell securities, insurance, advisory, and
other services. DiPietro was registered with First Allied from March 2005 to December 2008,
when First Allied terminated him. He was later registered with two other FINRA member firms,
but has not been registered with any member firm since December 2015.1 In addition to his
prior work as a registered representative with retail clients, DiPietro is a certified public
accountant with an accounting practice.
The arbitration at issue involves a claim by two First Allied clients to whom DiPietro
provided services. In September 2012, the clients filed a claim against First Allied, which in turn
filed a third-party claim against DiPietro in January 2013, for indemnity or contribution. First
Allied settled the claim against it before the arbitration hearing, and the arbitration proceeded
only on the claim against DiPietro.
On February 10, 2014, a FINRA Dispute Resolution Panel awarded First Allied
$157,505.79, plus interest.2 On the same day the award was entered, DiPietro’s counsel
properly received notice of the award and of DiPietro’s obligation to pay it within 30 days.
DiPietro timely filed a motion to vacate the award in the U.S. District Court for the
District of Arizona. The district court denied DiPietro’s motion on October 1, 2014, and
confirmed the award.3 DiPietro appealed the district court’s order and sought to stay the court’s
1

According to FINRA’s BrokerCheck, DiPietro ended his association with his most recent
FINRA member firm in December 2015. We take official notice of this information on
BrokerCheck, available at http://www.finra.org/Investors/ToolsCalculators/BrokerCheck. See 17
C.F.R. § 201.323 (rule of practice relating to official notice); Gregory Evan Goldstein, Exchange
Act Release No. 71970, 2014 WL 1494527, at *1 n.1 (Apr. 17, 2014) (taking official notice of
BrokerCheck records).
2

The Panel awarded First Allied $100,000 on its claim for indemnification, $56,047.55 in
attorney’s fees, $1,458.24 in costs, and $8,250 in FINRA arbitration fees. Among other findings,
the Panel rejected DiPietro’s argument that First Allied’s third-party claims should have been
precluded by an earlier FINRA arbitration award in his favor against First Allied, which arose
out of First Allied’s termination of him.
3

See Order, DiPietro v. Hutchinson, No. 2:14-cv-00502-DGC, Dkt. No. 68, 2014 WL
4954410, at *7 (D. Ariz. Oct. 1, 2014) (“Order”).

3
order pending his appeal. The district court denied DiPietro’s stay motion, because he had
neither demonstrated a likelihood of success on the merits nor posted a supersedeas bond.4
DiPietro’s appeal remains pending as of the date of this opinion.
In the meantime, FINRA learned of the district court’s confirmation of the award and
served DiPietro with a suspension notice on October 7, 2014, for failure to pay the award.
FINRA’s notice advised DiPietro that his registration would be suspended on October 28 unless,
before that date, he had demonstrated to FINRA that he met one of the four defenses enumerated
in Rule 9554.5 FINRA’s notice also advised DiPietro that he could request a hearing, which
would stay the effective date of the suspension. DiPietro requested a hearing, which occurred in
February and March 2015. The Hearing Officer imposed a suspension, finding that two of
DiPietro’s asserted defenses—the existence of his pending appeal, and the fact that he had filed a
motion to stay judgment—did not preclude suspension. The Hearing Officer also concluded that
DiPietro had not established a bona fide inability to pay the arbitration award.
ANALYSIS
A.

Standard of Review

Section 19(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 governs our review of an SRO
action imposing an indefinite suspension contingent on the payment of an arbitration award.6
Under Section 19(f), we must dismiss an appeal of the SRO’s action if we find that the specific
grounds on which the SRO based its action exist in fact; the SRO’s determination was in
accordance with its rules; those rules are, and were applied in a manner, consistent with the
purposes of the Exchange Act; and the action would not impose an undue burden on
competition.7 As explained below, we find that FINRA’s action meets this standard and,
accordingly, dismiss DiPietro’s appeal.

4

See Minute Order, DiPietro v. Hutchinson, No. 2:14-cv-00502-DGC, Dkt. No. 79 (D.
Ariz. Oct. 27, 2014) (“Minute Order”).
5

The letter specified the four enumerated defenses under FINRA Rule 9554 (payment of
the award in full, entry into a settlement agreement with the claimant, timely filed action to
vacate or modify the award (which has not been denied), or bankruptcy proceedings).
6

See William J. Gallagher, Exchange Act Release No. 47501, 58 S.E.C. 163, 2003 WL
1125378, at *2 (Mar. 14, 2003) (stating that since an indefinite suspension contingent on the
satisfaction of certain requirements is effectively a bar from association, our review of the
suspension is governed by Exchange Act Section 19(f)).
7

DiPietro does not claim, and we see no basis for concluding, that his suspension imposes
an unnecessary or inappropriate burden on competition in light of the purposes of the Exchange
Act.

4
B.

Specific Grounds for the Suspension

We find that the specific grounds on which FINRA based its suspension exist in fact. It
is undisputed that DiPietro was required to pay an arbitration award of $157,505.79, plus
interest, within 30 days of receiving the award.8 DiPietro filed his motion to vacate on the 30th
day after receiving the award, which stayed the obligation to pay the award. The obligation
became due immediately once the district court denied his motion on October 1, 2014.9 The
parties have stipulated that DiPietro has not paid any part of the award, filed for bankruptcy
protection, or entered into a settlement to pay the award. The record, therefore, supports the
Hearing Officer’s determination that DiPietro had not satisfied the February 2014 arbitration
award to First Allied.
C.

Suspension in Accordance with FINRA’s Rules

We find that the suspension was in accordance with FINRA’s Rules and reject DiPietro’s
arguments that FINRA’s proceedings should have been stayed while his appeal to the Ninth
Circuit was pending, and that he established an inability to pay the arbitration award.
FINRA Rule 9554 provides for expedited proceedings to suspend association with a
member firm for failure to comply with an arbitration award. The rule authorizes FINRA to
initiate the proceedings by issuing a written notice that specifies the grounds for, and the
effective date of, the suspension; and advises the respondent of his right to file a written request
for a hearing. It is undisputed that FINRA’s written notice to DiPietro complied with these
requirements and was properly served. It is also undisputed that after DiPietro requested a
hearing, FINRA complied with the applicable hearing procedures under FINRA Rule 9559.
DiPietro does not contend that the FINRA Hearing Officer conducted the hearing in an unfair
manner, and our review of the record does not suggest that FINRA deviated from its procedural
safeguards in this case.10

8

FINRA’s rules state that “monetary awards shall be paid within 30 days of receipt unless
a motion to vacate has been filed with a court of competent jurisdiction.” FINRA Rules
12904(j), 13904(j). “Days” means “calendar days.” FINRA Rules 12100(j), 13100(j). DiPietro
stipulated that on February 10, 2014, he received the award and was notified of his obligation to
pay within 30 days.
9

See NASD Notice to Members 00-55, 2000 WL 1375123, at *2 n.5 (Aug. 10, 2000)
(“Notice to Members 00-55”) (specifying that “[a]n award must be paid immediately when a
court denies a motion to vacate or modify the award, absent a court order staying compliance
with the award”). FINRA’s contention at the hearing that “the award became immediately due”
once the court denied the motion to vacate is consistent with Notice to Members 00-55.
10

Exchange Act Section 15A(b)(8) requires that SROs provide “fair procedures.” 15
U.S.C. § 78o-3(b)(8).

5
The Hearing Officer suspended DiPietro’s registration until he (1) pays the award in full,
(2) provides evidence that First Allied has agreed to installation payments or a settlement of the
action, (3) demonstrates that a motion to vacate or modify is pending before, or has been granted
by, a court, or (4) files a bankruptcy petition or demonstrates that the award has been discharged
by a bankruptcy court. This was consistent with FINRA Article VI, Section 3(b),11 and with
NASD’s Notice to Members 00-55, which enumerated these as the “bases for nonpayment.”12 It
is undisputed that DiPietro has not paid the award, no stay has been entered pending DiPietro’s
appeal to the Ninth Circuit of the district court’s order denying his motion to vacate the award,
and there is no evidence that DiPietro has sought either settlement of the award or bankruptcy
protection.
1.

DiPietro’s Pending Appeal

DiPietro contends that he should not have to satisfy the award while his appeal to the
Ninth Circuit is pending. But FINRA is permitted, under Article VI, Section 3 of its By-Laws, to
suspend or cancel an associated person’s membership for failure to pay an arbitration award
where a timely motion to vacate has not been made or “where such motion has been denied.” It
is undisputed that the motion has been denied. FINRA’s rules do not require it to delay the
effective date of a suspension or the commencement of suspension proceedings until after
resolution of an appeal from a district court’s denial of a motion to vacate.13 FINRA’s rules also
do not excuse failure to pay simply because the respondent has appealed that denial.14

11

FINRA Article VI, Section 3(b) states that FINRA may suspend an associated person for
failure to comply with an arbitration award “where a timely motion to vacate or modify such
award has not been made pursuant to applicable law or where such a motion has been denied, or
for failure to comply with a written and executed settlement agreement obtained in connection
with an arbitration or mediation submitted for disposition pursuant to the Corporation’s Rules.”
12

Notice to Members 00-55, 2000 WL 1375123, at *2.

13

See Gallagher, 2003 WL 1125378, at *4 (holding that a “suspension determination was
in accordance with [the] rules” of FINRA predecessor NASD, which “do[] not require [FINRA]
to delay its process until all appeals of [the] denial [of the motion to vacate] are exhausted”).
Although DiPietro correctly notes that FINRA is not prohibited from delaying proceedings until
the appeal is over, the Hearing Officer did not act contrary to FINRA rules in declining to do so.
14

DiPietro observes that the respondent in Herbert Garrett Frey was permitted to
“exhaust[] all of his state court remedies to challenge the award” before being subjected to
suspension proceedings, and that he should have been able to do the same. Exchange Act
Release No. 39007, 53 S.E.C. 146, 1997 WL 539495, at *4 (Sept. 3, 1997). But NASD did not
bring its disciplinary action in that case until the appeals were over, and nothing in that case
suggests FINRA must have waited to act until DiPietro’s appeals were over.

6
Notice to Members 00-55 specified that “[a]n award must be paid immediately when a
court denies a motion to vacate or modify the award, absent a court order staying compliance
with the award.”15 DiPietro sought a discretionary stay, which the court denied because DiPietro
had not “shown a likelihood of success on the merits or the existence of serious questions.”16
Consistent with Notice to Members 00-55, the Hearing Officer was not required to stay the
suspension when the district court declined to stay compliance with the order confirming the
award.
Separately, DiPietro suggests reasons why, in his view, the award itself should be
vacated.17 An arbitration award cannot be collaterally attacked by a respondent in an FINRA
expedited proceeding, and in the face of a confirmed award, such arguments do not furnish a
basis to avoid payment.18 DiPietro counters that he is not attacking the award, but seeks only to
show that he “has a viable appeal.” Even if true, that is irrelevant. DiPietro’s obligation has not
been lifted; though on appeal, the district court’s order has not been stayed.
DiPietro points to a case in which we recognized FINRA’s “prosecutorial discretion to
bring proceedings relating to the timely payment of arbitration awards, and, in the event it
exercises that discretion,” its “consider[ation of] factors in mitigation.”19 He contends that
FINRA should have exercised that “discretion” to let him complete his appeal. Given the record
before us, FINRA’s exercise of its discretion to bring proceedings against DiPietro is not

15

2000 WL 1375123 at *2 n.5.

16

Minute Order; see Golden Gate Rest. Ass’n v. City & Cnty. of San Francisco, 512 F.3d
1112, 1115 (9th Cir. 2008) (setting forth standard for discretionary stay pending appeal). As the
Supreme Court has recognized, arbitration awards may be vacated “only in very unusual
circumstances.” Oxford Health Plans LLC v. Sutter, 133 S. Ct. 2064, 2068 (2013).
17

DiPietro argues that the FINRA arbitrators (1) exceeded their powers by not giving effect
to choice-of-venue and choice-of-law provisions in the October 2004 contract; (2) violated his
“procedural due process” rights under the U.S. and California Constitutions; and (3) exhibited
manifest disregard of the law by not giving preclusive effect to part of the earlier FINRA
arbitration award in DiPietro’s favor against First Allied. See supra note 2.
18

See, e.g., Robert Tretiak, Exchange Act Release No. 47534, 56 S.E.C. 209, 2003 WL
1339182, at *5 (Mar. 19, 2003) (“As we have stated on numerous occasions, an applicant may
not collaterally attack an arbitration award . . . in a disciplinary proceeding for failure to pay that
award.”).
19

Daniel Joseph Avant, Exchange Act Release No. 36423, 1995 WL 630908, at *2 (Oct.
26, 1995) (describing NASD’s prosecutorial discretion).

7
reviewable, and in any event, FINRA’s proceeding against him was consistent with its
authority.20
For these reasons, we find that FINRA acted in accordance with its rules in determining
that DiPietro had an unsatisfied obligation to pay the award.
2.

DiPietro’s Asserted Bona Fide Inability To Pay

DiPietro also argues that he has a bona fide inability to pay the arbitration award. 21 To
prevail on an inability-to-pay defense a respondent must “demonstrate that he is unable to make
some meaningful payment toward the award from available assets or income.”22 The party
arguing inability to pay has the burden of proving the defense, “[b]ecause the scope of his assets

20

See Schellenbach v. SEC, 989 F.2d 907, 912 (7th Cir. 1993) (observing that FINRA
disciplinary proceedings are given “wide latitude . . . unless there is a showing of selective
enforcement or an attempt to discriminate by arbitrary classification,” and “are treated as an
exercise of prosecutorial discretion”).
21

Under Rule 9554(a), a claim of inability to pay is not a defense for awards “involving a
customer.” FINRA does not argue that First Allied’s claim against DiPietro involved a customer
instead of a member firm, or that DiPietro’s status as a FINRA registered representative makes
him ineligible for an inability to pay defense.
22

Dep’t of Enf’t v. Respondent, FINRA Expedited Proceeding No. ARB010032, at 3 (Mar.
15, 2002) (redacted), http://www.finra.org/sites/default/files/OHODecision/p006652_0_0.pdf;
see Dep’t of Enf’t v. Respondent, FINRA Expedited Proceeding No. ARB010001, at 11 (July 26,
2001) (redacted), http://www.finra.org/sites/default/files/OHODecision/p006655_0_0.pdf (“An
inability to pay defense may be rejected if it appears that the defendant is capable of reducing his
living expenses, has the ability to divert funds from other expenditures to pay the settlement of
the award, could borrow the funds, or could make some meaningful payment toward the
settlement of the award from available assets or income, even if he could not pay the full amount
of the award settlement.”).
DiPietro attempts to distinguish FINRA Expedited Proceeding No. ARB10001 by
pointing to that respondent’s disciplinary history, minimal financial records, and use of available
funds for other purposes. It is not dispositive that DiPietro lacks a disciplinary history or
produced more financial records than in ARB10001, because the critical point is whether
DiPietro has the ability to make a meaningful payment toward the award, including by reducing
his use of income for other expenses, or selling or borrowing against available assets.

8
is peculiarly within [his] knowledge.”23 A FINRA Hearing Officer may make a “rigorous
inquiry” into a respondent’s claimed inability to pay. 24
The Hearing Officer rejected DiPietro’s inability-to-pay defense, finding that he had
sufficient income or equity in various properties to pay at least a meaningful portion of the
arbitration award.25 We find that the Hearing Officer’s determinations were in accordance with
FINRA’s rules.
The record establishes that DiPietro had sufficient gross income in 2014 alone to pay the
award. This income came from his accounting practice, and from work with firms with which he
was associated, health plans for which he served as an agent, and a bank for which he was a
director. He also received in 2014 a significant loan from the FINRA member firm with which
he was then associated, which he testified that he used to “support [his] business as well as [his]
household during 2014.” DiPietro did not use any of this income to pay the award.26
DiPietro also contends that, instead of his gross income, FINRA should have focused on
his net income and taken his other expenses into account. FINRA has made clear that a
respondent cannot establish a bona fide inability to pay an arbitration award if he can divert
funds from other expenses to make some meaningful payment toward satisfaction of the award,
even if he could not pay the full amount of the award.27 At the hearing, DiPietro conceded that
his other expenses included extra payments to “reduce the principal” owed on his home
23

Zipper, 1993 WL 538925, at *2.

24

Gallagher, 2003 WL 1125378, at *3; see also Tretiak, 2003 WL 1339182, at *5
(“searching inquiry”).
25

The Hearing Officer also stated that “it appears that the issue is not DiPietro’s inability to
pay the award, but his refusal to pay an award that he finds unjust.” DiPietro testified that he
should not be required to indemnify or contribute to First Allied for its own fraud against its
clients. Although that may be a motive for his failure to pay, the relevant question is whether he
can make some meaningful payment toward the award.
26

FINRA’s brief provided details concerning DiPietro’s income in 2012 and 2013.
DiPietro argues that his income for those years is irrelevant to his inability to pay because he was
not named as a third-party respondent until February 2013, and the award was not entered until
February 2014. But FINRA does not suggest that DiPietro should have put money in escrow
before he was named in the arbitration or before the award was entered. Instead, we read
FINRA’s brief as an effort to provide context and a fuller picture of DiPietro’s finances and
stream of income over time.
27

See FINRA Expedited Proceeding No. ARB010001, at 11; FINRA Expedited Proceeding
No. ARB010032, at 3.

9
mortgage; payments for more than the minimum amounts due on his credit cards and on his adult
children’s student loans (which he was responsible for paying); private high school tuition for a
minor child; monthly gifts to an adult child to “supplement his income”; and payments for
insurance premiums on a vehicle owned by another adult child.28 DiPietro chose to pay these
discretionary expenses instead of paying down the balance of the arbitration award.
Separately, an inability-to-pay defense is unavailable if a respondent can borrow against
assets to satisfy the award or pay a meaningful part of it.29 The record reflects that DiPietro had
equity in real estate that could be sold or borrowed against in order to pay the award. The
Hearing Officer found that DiPietro’s “decision not to pay the arbitration award . . . by obtaining
funds based on his assets hinges more on his own asset-allocation choices than on a genuine
inability to pay.” We agree.30 DiPietro owns his primary residence, and has an interest in a
commercial property purportedly held for his adult children. Both could be sold or borrowed
against to pay the award.31
28

DiPietro testified at the hearing, for example, that he was “carrying the insurance” and
paying premiums on a car titled in his adult daughter’s name, “even though [he doesn’t] have an
ownership interest in” the car.
29

See, e.g., FINRA Expedited Proceeding No. ARB10032, at 3; Dept. of Enf’t v. Robert
Tretiak, No. C02980085, 2000 WL 33299600, at *6 (N.A.S.D.R. Mar. 10, 2000) (considering
whether respondent could “borrow[] funds to pay the award”), aff’d, 2001 WL 199948 (N.A.C.
Jan. 23, 2001), aff’d, Exchange Act Release No. 47534, 2003 WL 1339182 (Mar. 19, 2003);
Dist. Bus. Conduct Comm. v. Bruce M. Zipper, No. C07910138, 1994 WL 1067241, at *4
(N.B.C.C. Oct. 31, 1994) (considering possibility that respondent had borrowed money from his
family to settle a tax obligation, and could have borrowed to pay the award, in upholding finding
that respondent had not met burden of showing inability to pay).
30

It is unclear whether DiPietro could have borrowed against or sold his accounting
practice, as the Hearing Officer found. We need not address that argument, however, because
FINRA acted consistent with its rules in finding that DiPietro’s real estate has sufficient equity to
satisfy the award.
31

The record supports the Hearing Officer’s finding that “there is substantial equity in the
[primary] residence” that could be used to pay the award, based on an appraisal from July 2012.
DiPietro counters that the 2012 appraised value is too high, and that the appropriate value is
between 65% and 77% of the appraised value. But other than the sale prices of neighboring
houses (which he fails to establish are comparable), he offers no evidence to support his
challenge of the appraisal’s validity, its assumptions, or its methodology. He also provides no
explanation for why the value of his residence would have depreciated by up to one-third since
2012. Although DiPietro has a mortgage, a home equity line of credit, and a portion of the
mortgage for the commercial property secured against his primary residence, these debts are
significantly less than the property’s July 2012 appraised value. Although DiPietro testified that
(continued . . .)

10
DiPietro and his wife are partial owners of a limited liability company (“LLC”) that, in
turn, owns the commercial property.32 DiPietro plays a significant role in financing and
operating the property. The record supports the Hearing Officer’s finding that there is
substantial equity in the property. DiPietro, as president of the LLC, signed an agreement in
June 2014, to list the property for sale, and authorized several reductions in the price. A sale at
any of the prices DiPietro has authorized would generate a return, net of the debt secured on the
property, sufficient to cover payment of the award. What is more, DiPietro would generate
enough return to cover the award even if the property sold for the lowest appraised valuation in
the record—nearly half a million dollars less than the lowest amount for which DiPietro has
authorized a sale, an amount DiPietro considered a “low” estimate of the property’s value.
For these reasons, we find that FINRA acted in accordance with its rules in determining
that DiPietro had not established a bona fide inability to pay the arbitration award.
D.

FINRA Rule 9554 Is Consistent with the Exchange Act’s Purposes.

The FINRA rules at issue are, and were applied in a manner, consistent with the purposes
of the Exchange Act. As we have explained, “[h]onoring arbitration awards is essential to the
functioning of the [FINRA] arbitration system. Requiring members or associated persons to
(continued . . .)
he has attempted unsuccessfully to increase his home equity line of credit, he does not dispute
that he could capture his equity by selling his residence.
32

The record also supports the Hearing Officer’s finding that DiPietro has not demonstrated
an inability to use the property’s equity. DiPietro does not even suggest that he cannot use the
property to satisfy the arbitration award, even though he contends that his adult children fully
own the LLC and property. The only version of the LLC operating agreement in the record
provides that 100% of the LLC’s net profits are allocated fully to DiPietro himself. No document
in the record corroborates DiPietro’s testimony that his children own 100% of the property’s
equity.
According to the operating agreement, DiPietro holds 87.5% of the LLC’s voting
interests. He testified that when he listed the property for sale, he did so “without getting [his]
children’s approval first.” In short, the record contains no documentary evidence that the
children would have any role in receiving or deciding how to use the proceeds from a sale or
loan. Even if the children did fully own the LLC and the property, DiPietro has not established
his inability to use sale or loan proceeds to pay the award. Assuming that the LLC’s net profits
will someday be allocated to the children and not wholly to DiPietro, as the LLC operating
agreement provides now, DiPietro testified that his children would likely lend or give him the
proceeds needed to pay the award, although he had not yet asked them to do so. The Hearing
Officer’s decision correctly concluded that DiPietro could borrow or otherwise obtain funds from
his children to pay the award.

11
abide by arbitration awards enhances the effectiveness of the arbitration process.”33 We have
explained that the FINRA Rule 9554 is consistent with Exchange Act Section 15A(b)(6) and
(7)34 and will further FINRA’s obligation to take appropriate action when associated persons
violate FINRA rules.
DiPietro has harmed the prevailing arbitration claimant, First Allied, by causing it to wait
for satisfaction of its award. Conditional suspension of DiPietro’s association with FINRA
members gives him an incentive to pay the award. This, in turn, furthers two central purposes of
the Exchange Act—serving the public interest and the protection of investors.
***
In sum, we find that the grounds on which FINRA based its suspension exist in fact, that
the suspension was imposed in accordance with FINRA’s rules, and that those rules are and were
applied in a manner consistent with the Exchange Act’s purposes. Accordingly, we dismiss
DiPietro’s application for review.
An appropriate order will issue.35
By the Commission (Chair WHITE and Commissioners STEIN AND PIWOWAR).

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

33

Gallagher, 2003 WL 1125378, at *4.

34

See 15 U.S.C. § 78o-3(b)(6), (7).

35

We have considered all of the parties’ contentions. We have rejected or sustained them
to the extent that they are inconsistent or in accord with the views expressed in this opinion.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77398 / March 17, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-16658

In the Matter of the Application of
MICHAEL ALBERT DIPIETRO
For Review of Disciplinary Action Taken by
FINRA

ORDER DISMISSING APPEAL OF ACTION TAKEN BY REGISTERED SECURITIES
ASSOCIATION
On the basis of the Commission’s opinion issued this day, it is
ORDERED that the appeal filed by Michael Albert DiPietro be, and it hereby is,
dismissed.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

