UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 79067 / October 6, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17621

In the Matter of

ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO SECTION
15(b) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934, AND NOTICE OF HEARING

ANDREW STITT,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Andrew Stitt
(“Respondent” or “Stitt”).
II.
After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement alleges that:
A.

RESPONDENT

1.
Andrew Stitt, age unknown, is a Canadian citizen residing in Jamaica. Stitt offered
and sold interests in three unregistered securities offerings. In exchange, he received undisclosed
commissions. Stitt was not and never has been registered with the Commission as a broker-dealer.
Nor has he been associated with a registered broker-dealer.

1

B.

ENTRY OF THE INJUNCTION

2.
On August 18, 2016, a final judgment was entered against Stitt in the civil action
entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Team Resources, Inc., et al., Civil Action Number
3:15-CV-1045-N, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas. The final
judgment permanently enjoins him from future violations of Sections 5(a), 5(c), and 17(a) of the
Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Sections 10(b) and 15(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule
10b-5 thereunder.
3.
The Commission’s complaint in the civil action alleges that Stitt committed a
number of violations of the federal securities laws. From 2011-12, Stitt, sold interests in at least
three unregistered oil-and-gas securities offerings. During the course of these offerings, he made a
number of material misrepresentations and omissions. Stitt's misrepresentations and omissions
included: (1) promising investors unreasonable returns; (2) failing to disclose that prior investment
programs had performed poorly; (3) failing to disclose that area wells were producing little or no
oil; and (4) failing to disclose that he was receiving sales commissions. Stitt marketed these
programs using the alias “Andy Belson.” In exchange of his sales efforts, Stitt received at least
$214,371 in undisclosed sales commissions. Stitt was not a registered broker-dealer during the
offerings, nor was he associated with a registered broker-dealer.
III.
In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement, the Commission deems it
necessary and appropriate in the public interest that public administrative proceedings be instituted
to determine:
A.
Whether the allegations set forth in Section II hereof are true and, in connection
therewith, to afford Respondent an opportunity to establish any defenses to such allegations;
B.
What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against Respondent
pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act;
C.
Whether, pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act, it is appropriate and in
the public interest to bar Respondent from participating in any offering of penny stock,
including: acting as a promoter, finder, consultant, agent or other person who engages in
activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny
stock; or inducing or attempting to induce the purchase or sale of any penny stock.
IV.
IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the questions
set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened at a time and place to be fixed, and before an
Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 of the
Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.110.

2

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent shall file an Answer to the allegations
contained in this Order within twenty (20) days after service of this Order, as provided by Rule 220
of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220.
If Respondent fails to file the directed answer, or fails to appear at a hearing after being duly
notified, the Respondent may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be determined against
him upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of which may be deemed to be true as
provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f) and 310 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R.
§§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f) and 201.310.
This Order shall be served upon Andrew Stitt as provided for in Rule 141(a)(2)(iv) of the
Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.141(a)(2)(iv).
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, pursuant to Rule 360(a)(2) of the Commission’s Rules
of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.360(a)(2), the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an initial decision
no later than 75 days from the occurrence of one of the following events: (A) The completion of
post-hearing briefing in a proceeding where the hearing has been completed; (B) Where the
hearing officer has determined that no hearing is necessary, upon completion of briefing on a
motion pursuant to Rule 250 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.250; or (C)
The determination by the hearing officer that a party is deemed to be in default under Rule 155 of
the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.155 and no hearing is necessary.
In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission engaged
in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually related
proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter, except as witness
or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice. Since this proceeding is not “rule making” within
the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it is not deemed subject to the
provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any final Commission action.
For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

