ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17217
SEC Announces Charges Against Two California-based Investment Advisers for CherryPicking Profitable Trades for Favored Accounts
April 19, 2016 – The Securities and Exchange Commission today announced fraud charges
against two California-based investment advisers for cherry-picking profitable trades for favored
accounts.
TPG Advisors, LLC d/b/a The Phillips Group Advisors and Larry M. Phillips
In the first matter, the SEC Enforcement Division alleges that from at least January 2010 to
August 2014, Larry Phillips and his firm, TPG Advisors, LLC (TPG), systematically allocated
profitable equity and options trades to at least six favored accounts held by four favored clients
to whom Phillips had personal connections and allocated unprofitable trades to other, disfavored
client accounts despite warnings from the third-party broker that maintained custody over the
firm’s accounts about the allocation practices. The SEC Enforcement Division further alleges
that the likelihood that the profitability in the favored accounts originated from random chance
was less than 1%.
The SEC Enforcement Division further alleges that Phillips and his firm violated Section 10(b)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and Sections 206(1), 206(2),
and 207 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. The matter will be scheduled for a public
hearing before an administrative law judge, who will prepare an initial decision stating what, if
any, remedial actions are appropriate.
The investigation, which was the second to arise from a data-driven enforcement initiative to
combat cherry-picking led by the Enforcement Division’s Asset Management Unit and the
SEC’s Boston and Los Angeles Regional Offices, was conducted by Tony Regenstreif and
supervised by Victoria A. Levin of the Los Angeles Regional Office. The Enforcement
Division’s litigation will be led by John Berry, Kristin Escalante, and Tony Regenstreif.
Bruce A. Hartshorn
A separate SEC investigation found that Bruce A. Hartshorn, the founder and control person of
Hartshorn & Co., Inc. (H&C), a defunct California-based adviser, disproportionately allocated
profitable trades to proprietary accounts and unprofitable trades to clients. The probability that
such allocations could have been by chance was less than one-in-one-million. As a result of the
scheme, Hartshorn reaped $109,516 in ill-gotten gains.
Hartshorn consented to the SEC’s order without admitting or denying the SEC’s findings that he
violated Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and Sections 206(1) and
206(2) of the Advisers Act and agreed to a cease-and-desist order, to pay disgorgement,
prejudgment interest, and a civil penalty totaling $189,552.20, and to be barred from working as
an investment adviser or with an investment company.

The investigation was conducted by Alfred C. Tierney and Marie K. N. DeBonis of the Asset
Management Unit, and supervised by Adam S. Aderton of the Asset Management Unit.
See also:

Order – TPG Advisors, LLC et al.
Order – Hartshorn

