UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78476 / August 3, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17246
ORDER MAKING FINDINGS AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

In the Matter of
GREG RUEHLE,
Respondent.

I.
On May 10, 2016, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) instituted
public administrative proceedings pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Greg Ruehle (“Ruehle” or “Respondent”).
II.
Respondent, pursuant to Rule 240(a) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. §
201.240(a), has now submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”) in connection with these public
administrative proceedings, which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent
consents to the entry of this Order Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions Pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”) as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:

1.
Respondent was a consultant for ICB International, Inc. (“ICBI”), a
California corporation that is not registered with the Commission in any capacity. Nor is
Respondent registered with the Commission in any capacity. From at least June 2012 through
February 2015, Respondent acted as an unregistered broker-dealer when he participated in the offer
and sale of ICBI securities to over 100 investors in California and Minnesota. Respondent, 63 years
old, is a resident of Oceanside, California.
2.

Respondent participated in an offering of ICBI stock, which is a penny

stock.
3.
On April 11, 2016, a final judgment was entered by consent against Ruehle,
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933
(“Securities Act”), and Sections 10(b) and 15(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder,
in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Ruehle, Civil Action Number
3:16-cv-00366-AJB-MDD, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of
California.
4.
The Commission’s complaint alleged that from at least June 2012 through
February 2015, Ruehle misappropriated about $1.9 million from investors by purportedly selling
them securities in ICBI that he knew he did not own, could not transfer, and therefore could not
deliver. The complaint further alleged that Ruehle later fabricated documents – bogus stock
certificates, a forged letter from ICBI’s chief executive officer – to conceal his deception. Last, the
complaint alleged that through his misconduct, Ruehle effected securities transactions and/or
induced the purchase or sale of securities.
5.
On February 11, 2016, Ruehle pled guilty to one count of securities fraud in
violation of Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78j(b) and 78ff before the United States District
Court for the Southern District of California, in United States v. Ruehle, Case No. 3:16-cr-00231MMA.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Ruehle’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act that
Respondent Ruehle be, and hereby is:
barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities
dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating
organization; and
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter,
finder, consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or
2

issuer for purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting
to induce the purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws and
regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

