UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 75519 / July 24, 2015
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-15654
____________________________________
:
In the Matter of
:
:
G-TRADE SERVICES LLC,
:
CONVERGEX GLOBAL MARKETS
:
LIMITED, and CONVERGEX
:
EXECUTION SOLUTIONS LLC
:
:
Respondents.
:
____________________________________:

ORDER APPROVING A
PLAN OF DISTRIBUTION

I.
On December 18, 2013, the Commission issued an Order Instituting Administrative
and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Pursuant to Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, Making
Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”) against
G-Trade Services LLC (“G-Trade”), ConvergEx Global Markets Limited (“CGM”), and
ConvergEx Execution Solutions LLC (“CES”)1 (collectively, “Respondents”). The Order
required Respondents to pay a total of $107,424,429 in disgorgement, prejudgment interest,
and civil money penalties into an escrow account and created a Fair Fund pursuant to Section
308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended. Payment was made into the escrow
account as required by the Order on December 17, 2013. In three related proceedings, the
Commission or Court ordered that the disgorgement and prejudgment interest paid in those

1

Exchange Act Release No. 71128 (Dec. 18, 2013), available at
http://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2013/34-71128.pdf.

proceedings, totaling $2,011,889, be combined with the funds paid in this matter for
distribution to harmed customers.2 All payments have been made and placed into the escrow
account, which as of April 30, 2015, totals $109,440,085.58.
In the Order, the Commission found that, from 2006 through 2011, Respondents
engaged in a fraudulent scheme to conceal their practice of unnecessarily routing certain
global trading and transition management customer orders to an offshore affiliate in order to
charge undisclosed mark-ups and mark-downs in addition to disclosed commissions on those
orders. Respondents held themselves out to the public as a unified conflict-free agency broker
that charged explicit commissions for equity order execution. In addition to explicit
commissions, Respondents routinely took undisclosed “trading profits” (“TP”) from these
customers by routing their orders to an offshore affiliate, which executed orders on a riskless
basis and opportunistically added a mark-up or mark-down to the price of the security. Often the
offshore affiliate consulted with the client-facing brokers to assess whether and how much TP
to take, in order to minimize the risk of detection by the customer. TP often greatly exceeded
the disclosed commissions, which resulted in many customers paying more than double the
amount that they thought they were paying to execute orders. The practice of executing orders
through the offshore affiliate and taking TP was not adequately disclosed to customers and was
inconsistent with Respondents’ purported conflict-free agency model. In addition, through this
practice, Respondents failed to seek best execution.
Respondents believed that they would lose business if customers became aware of this
practice. As a result, Respondents engaged in a scheme to intentionally or recklessly conceal
their taking TP from customers. The foundation of the scheme was Respondents’ multiple2

See In the Matter of Jonathan Samuel Daspin, Administrative Proceeding File No. 3-15652
(Exchange Act Rel. No. 71126 (Dec. 18, 2013)), available at
http://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2013/34-71126.pdf; In the Matter of Thomas Lekargeren,
Administrative Proceeding File No. 3-15653 (Exchange Act Rel. No. 71127 (Dec. 18, 2013)),
available at http://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2013/34-71127.pdf; and
Securities and Exchange Commission v. Craig S. Lax, Civil Action No. 23:15-cv-014079-WHW-CLW
(D.N.J.) available at http://www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-27.html.

2

broker corporate structure, which was necessary to add an additional layer of execution charges
while maintaining the appearance of technical compliance with regulatory requirements.
Respondents also engaged in specific acts to hide TP from customers, including
opportunistically taking TP only when they believed that the risk of detection by the customer
was low, using technological tools to conceal their identity in otherwise transparent markets,
intentionally delaying the implementation of real-time trade reporting and utilizing proprietary
software applications to quickly fabricate false execution prices. In addition, Respondents
made false and misleading statements to customers who inquired about Respondents’ overall
compensation, including providing certain customers with falsified trading data to cover up
the fact that the offshore affiliate had taken TP on their orders.
Although the scheme involved the taking of TP from customers in connection with orders
in securities traded in U.S. markets (“U.S. securities”), as well as with securities traded in nonU.S. markets (“non-U.S. securities”), Respondents’ misconduct related to interpositioning and
best execution was particularly egregious with respect to U.S. securities. The Order found that
CGM often took TP on orders received within the U.S. to buy or sell U.S. securities, but that
instead of routing those orders for execution directly to CES, which was the U.S. trading arm of
ConvergEx Group, LLC and a member of U.S. exchanges, Respondents unnecessarily routed
those orders to CGM in Bermuda in order to take TP. The Order also found that CGM did not
provide any additional necessary services in Bermuda when handling orders in U.S. securities
and merely routed them back to brokers in the U.S. for execution, thus improperly
interpositioning CGM between the customer and the relevant market.
On May 9, 2014, pursuant to Rule 1103 of the Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund and
Disgorgement Plans (“Rules”), 17 C.F.R. § 201.1103, the Commission issued a Notice of

3

Proposed Plan of Distribution and Opportunity for Comment (the “Notice”)3 for the
distribution of monies placed into the Fair Fund. The Notice provided all interested parties
thirty (30) days to submit comments on the Proposed Plan of Distribution (the “Proposed
Plan”). The Notice advised interested parties that they could obtain a copy of the Proposed
Plan from the Commission’s public website or by submitting a written request to Nancy Chase
Burton, Esq., United States Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, DC 20549-5631. Five comments were submitted, four within the thirty (30) day
comment period and one after.
After considering comments, Commission staff, working with the distribution plan
administrator appointed by the Commission,4 prepared a distribution plan, which contains
modifications from the Proposed Plan that address the comments received (the “Plan”).
After careful consideration, the Commission has concluded to approve the Plan.
II.
A. Public Comments on the Proposed Plan
1. The Neuberger Berman LLC Letter
Joshua Blackman submitted a comment letter, dated May 22, 2014, on behalf of
Neuberger Berman LLC (“Neuberger”). Neuberger requested (1) that distribution payments
arising from orders placed by investment advisers to wrap fee programs5 (“Wrap Advisers”)
be sent directly to the sponsors of the wrap fee programs who cleared the trades and have a
3

Exchange Act Rel. No. 72146 (May 9, 2014), available at
http://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2014/34-72146.pdf.
4

On December 18, 2014, pursuant to Rule 1105(a), 17 C.F.R. § 201.1105(a), the Commission issued
an order appointing The Garden City Group, Inc. (“GCG”) as the fund administrator and ordering that
GCG obtain a bond in accordance with Rule 1105(c), 17 C.F.R. § 201.1105(c), in the amount of
$108,653,021. This order is available at http://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2014/34-73865.pdf.
5

Wrap fee program means an advisory program under which a specified fee or fees not based directly
upon transactions in a client’s account is charged for investment advisory services (which may include
portfolio management or advice concerning the selection of other investment advisers) and the
execution of client transactions. 17 C.F.R. § 275.204-3(h)(5).

4

direct contractual relationship with the affected clients (“Wrap Sponsors”), instead of the
Wrap Advisers who submitted the orders to Respondents, and (2) that American Depositary
Receipts (“ADRs”) be treated as “U.S. securities” under the Plan. Neuberger enumerated
several reasons why Wrap Sponsors are better positioned than Wrap Advisers to allocate and
distribute payments to underlying wrap clients (“Wrap Clients”).6 Neuberger’s comment
requesting that distribution payments to be sent directly to Wrap Sponsors rather than Wrap
Advisers was also echoed in substance by another commenter (Federated, infra at p. 11, §4, ¶
1).
In support of its first comment, Neuberger’s letter explained that, in a typical wrap fee
program, a Wrap Client opens an account with a Wrap Sponsor, which typically hires or
appoints one or more Wrap Advisers to handle specific trading strategies for the Wrap Client.
Neuberger stated that Wrap Advisers typically do not communicate with Wrap Clients, do not
have custody of their assets and do not allocate trades among Wrap Clients, which is
ordinarily the responsibility of Wrap Sponsors. Thus, according to Neuberger, if a
distribution payment were to be sent to a Wrap Adviser like Neuberger (as the Respondents’
Direct Customer), then that Wrap Adviser would need to forward the payment to the
appropriate Wrap Sponsor with custody of the underlying Wrap Client accounts and
knowledge of the appropriate allocation among those accounts.
The Commission has considered Neuberger’s first comment, along with other similar
comments, and agrees that some modification to the Proposed Plan is appropriate. To address
the concerns raised we have added an outreach process to the Plan, designed both to ensure
6

The reasons cited by Neuberger for directing payments to Wrap Sponsors are that they: (a) have a
contractual relationship with the Wrap Clients; (b) have the most information about the Wrap Clients;
(c) made the allocations for the affected trades and therefore can determine the amounts owed to each
Wrap Client; and (d) as custodian, will ultimately need to receive the payment in order to deposit the
amount in the Wrap Client’s account or send the payment to the affected client. Mr. Blackman further
noted that if distribution payments were sent to a Wrap Adviser such as Neuberger, the Wrap Adviser
would need to forward the payment to the appropriate Wrap Sponsors, as it lacks sufficient
information about allocations to underlying Wrap Clients and also does not have custody of Wrap
Client’s accounts.

5

the accuracy of the distribution process as well as to provide an opportunity for Direct
Customers, such as Neuberger, to request that their distribution payment be sent to their
underlying clients. More specifically, as described in Section 10 of the Plan, the Fund
Administrator will send correspondence to all known Direct Customers of record to advise
them of the distribution payments that they are eligible to receive and to request that they
respond with an indication of where to send the payments. Direct Customers may elect to
receive their payment directly, or they may request that the Fund Administrator make payment
to their underlying clients. Direct Customers electing to have distribution payments sent to
their underlying clients will be asked to provide contact information and other necessary
information to the Fund Administrator, who will then contact the underlying clients to verify
payment instructions and obtain any other necessary information.
With regard to Neuberger’s request that securities transactions in ADRs be treated as
securities transactions involving U.S. securities, the Commission agrees but notes that that is
how the Plan, as proposed, will operate. Distribution payments arising from orders relating to
ADRs are to be treated consistently with orders in other securities. According to Neuberger,
“although the underlying securities of an ADR are foreign, the ADR itself is a negotiable
instrument that is traded and settled in U.S. markets.” While the Commission agrees with this
characterization of ADRs generally, the Respondents executed some orders for ADRs by
trading in the underlying non-U.S. securities and taking TP on those transactions while, in
other instances, Respondents traded the ADR and took TP on that transaction. In
administering the Plan, orders for an ADR transaction will be treated consistently with all
other orders for securities transactions – that is, they will be treated as transactions involving
U.S. securities unless the Respondents traded non-U.S. securities in filling the order, in which
case they will be treated as transactions involving non-U.S. securities. Thus, the Plan’s
treatment of ADRs is consistent with the underlying securities violations and the taking of TP.

6

The Plan treats an ADR order, like an order in any other security, in the manner in which the
order was executed, and no change is necessary.
2. The EII Capital Management, Inc. Letter
Richard D. Marshall submitted a comment letter, dated June 2, 2014, on behalf of EII
Capital Management, Inc. (“EII”), requesting (1) that the Proposed Plan be amended to
eliminate the distinction in the treatment of harm suffered by customers in connection with
trades in U.S. and non-U.S. securities, and (2) that the Proposed Plan be “clarified” to ensure
that investment advisers do not bear any costs associated with the distribution, including
expenses incurred by investment advisers to apportion and distribute payments received in the
distribution to their underlying customers.
In its first request, EII asserted that the proposed treatment of U.S. and non-U.S.
securities is inconsistent with the Order, unfair and lacking basis. EII, in particular, cited that
the conduct in the order involved trading in both U.S. and non-U.S. securities and argued that
there is “no basis to treat injuries from trading in non-U.S. securities differently (and less
advantageously) from injuries from trading in U.S. securities.” EII’s comment challenging the
proposed treatment of U.S. and non-U.S. securities was reiterated in substance by a later
comment letter (Towers Watson, infra at p. 13, §5, ¶ 1).
The Commission’s objective is to distribute the Fair Fund in a fair and reasonable
manner, taking into account relevant facts and circumstances.7 The settlement agreed to by
Respondents and the Commission included as disgorgement an amount equivalent to the total
amount of TP taken on U.S. securities. This settlement—and the remedies obtained by the
Commission—result from arms’ length negotiations and reflect the Commission’s

7

See Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors of Worldcom, Inc. v. SEC, 467 F.3d 73, 82 (2d Cir.
2006) (“So long as the district court is satisfied that ‘in the aggregate, the plan is equitable and
reasonable,’ the SEC may engage in the ‘kind of line-drawing [that] inevitably leaves out some
potential claimants’”), citing SEC v. Wang, 944 F.2d 80, 88 (2d Cir. 1991).

7

discretionary judgment about the use of its limited resources, the risks of litigation (including
risks of litigation concerning TP from non-U.S. securities), and the Commission’s ability to
obtain funds for distribution quickly.
Because the disgorgement amount in the Fair Fund equals the amount of gain from TP
taken on U.S. securities, the majority of the money in the Fair Fund corresponds to ill-gotten
gains related to the trading of U.S. securities. Given the limited funds available in the Fair
Fund, which are insufficient to make all injured investors 100% whole, the Commission must
choose a method of distribution, and the Commission concludes that it is reasonable to first
seek to distribute all of those funds back to those customers harmed by TP in U.S. securities
before seeking to distribute funds to customers harmed by trading in non-U.S. securities.
Accordingly, the Commission is adopting a plan that distributes all of the funds recovered
from Respondents by distributing 100% of the TP taken on U.S. securities back to the
customers from whom this money was taken, and then, distributing pro rata the remainder of
the funds in order to return a portion of the TP taken on non-U.S. securities.8
Moreover, this approach is consistent with the Order, which highlighted multiple
instances of misconduct unique to U.S. securities.9 For example, Respondents’ misconduct
related to interpositioning and best execution, arising from unnecessarily routing customer
orders to Respondent’s Bermuda affiliate, was especially egregious with regard to U.S.
securities. This is particularly true in light of Respondents’ ability to execute those orders at
its U.S.-based broker-dealer. The Order also highlighted deficiencies in the company’s
8

The Commission anticipates that approximately $80.1 million will be paid to refund TP taken on U.S.
securities with the residual amount of the Fair Fund, approximately $29.3 million, to be distributed pro
rata to refund TP taken on non-U.S. securities.
9

In Paragraph 8 of the Order, the Commission found that the CGM Division and GTM received orders
for U.S. securities in their New York offices, and “instead of routing these orders to CES, which was
ConvergEx’s U.S. trading arm and a member of U.S. exchanges, they unnecessarily routed these
orders to CGM in Bermuda in order to take TP.” Moreover, Paragraph 10 of the Order describes two
transactions for a university and a charitable organization, involving trades in only U.S. securities that
GTM routed to CGM in Bermuda, resulting in the taking of an amount of TP equal to several times the
disclosed commissions.

8

disclosures that were particularly problematic with regard to U.S. securities. For these
reasons, the Commission concludes that it is fair and reasonable to retain the proposed
distribution methodology relating to the treatment of U.S. and non-U.S. securities without any
modification.
Regarding EII’s request that the Commission modify the Proposed Plan to require
Respondents to reimburse investment adviser intermediaries for costs incurred in connection
with the distribution, so as to be consistent with the Order, the Commission disagrees that the
Order requires Respondents to reimburse their customers for their administrative costs related
to the distribution. The language of the Order cited by EII, that Respondents pay all “fees and
expenses of administering the Plan,” is standard language used regularly in Commission
orders. When the Commission appoints a third party administrator for a Fair Fund, this
language is used to indicate that the Respondent will pay the administrator’s costs and
expenses and, conversely, that the distribution fund will not be used to pay any fees and
expenses of a respondent. Here, where the Respondents have set up an escrow account for the
fund, this language is intended to prohibit the Respondents from using the Fair Fund to
reimburse themselves. Furthermore, the addition of the outreach provisions in Section 10 of
the Plan (described supra at pp. 5-6, §1, ¶ 3), under which customers may elect for the Fund
Administrator to make distribution payments directly to underlying clients, addresses EII’s
concerns to a certain extent. Accordingly, the Commission declines to require further
modifications to the Plan based on EII’s comments.
3. The City of Philadelphia Letter
Joseph A. Ingrisano submitted a comment letter, dated June 6, 2014, on behalf of the
City of Philadelphia and its related agencies and funds (collectively, “City”), which included
the following requests: (1) that the Proposed Plan be reissued for comment with the addition
of (a) the overall relevant or proportional amounts of TP on U.S. and non-U.S. securities, and

9

(b) an explanation of the disparate treatment of U.S. securities and non-U.S. securities; (2)
that, in the alternative, the Proposed Plan be modified to distribute the Fair Fund on a pro rata
basis with equivalent treatment of U.S. and non-U.S. securities; (3) that, prior to distributing
the Fair Fund to any intermediary customer (such as a broker), the Commission implement a
notice and claims process through which known indirect, underlying customers would be
notified that their broker (as a customer of the Respondents) will be receiving a TP refund and
provided an opportunity to request that instead such indirect customers’ pro rata share of the
payment be made to them directly; and (4) that any residual amount remaining in the Fair
Fund after the distribution be distributed pro rata to customers in proportion to each
customer’s uncompensated TP, rather than transferring such amount to the U.S. Treasury, as
provided in the Proposed Plan.
First, with regard to City’s request for additional quantitative information concerning
TP, the Commission’s staff estimates that approximately $80.1 million (or 73%) of the Fair
Fund will be paid in connection with TP taken on U.S. securities, with the residual amount,
approximately $29.3 million (or 27%) of the Fair Fund, to be paid pro rata toward TP taken on
non-U.S. securities. Total TP on U.S. and non-U.S. securities taken by Respondents during
the relevant period of the investigation was approximately $81.3 million and $185.7 million,
respectively. Thus, the distribution payments to be made in this distribution, will result in
approximately 100% customer recovery on U.S. TP and approximately 16% recovery on nonU.S. TP, not including amounts refunded in connection with other settlements. In light of the
fact that the Proposed Plan disclosed in Section 2 that the distribution was anticipated to
"cover substantially less than half of the TP taken on those [non-U.S. securities] orders,”
together with the fact that letters addressing the U.S./non-U.S. securities methodology were
submitted by three commenters, the Commission concludes that reissuing the Plan for
comment is not warranted.

10

Second, regarding equivalent treatment of U.S. and non-U.S. TP, the Commission has
provided additional detail regarding its rationale for adopting the Plan’s distribution
methodology (see response to EII’s comment, supra at pp. 7-9, §2, ¶¶ 3-5). Moreover, in light
of the prior notice and comment period, the Commission concludes that an additional notice
and comment period is neither necessary nor required by the Rules. Under Rule 1104, 17
C.F.R. § 201.1104, “[i]n the discretion of the Commission, a proposed plan that is
substantially modified prior to adoption may be republished for an additional comment period.
. . .” (emphasis added). In determining whether a plan is substantially modified, the
Commission considers, among other things, whether modifications revise the distribution
plan’s methodology, in particular whether such modifications could have a negative effect on
the proposed eligible recipients, and whether the modifications affect the group of persons
eligible to participate in a plan. In this case, there is no “substantial” modification because the
Plan retains the proposed distribution methodology as to U.S. and non-U.S. TP and both the
distribution payment amounts and the ultimate recipients remain unaffected. As a result, the
Commission exercises its discretion to not republish the Plan for additional comment.
Third, the City requested that the Plan be modified to create a notice and claims
process for known underlying customers, which would notify them of forthcoming TP refunds
and provide an opportunity for them to claim directly their pro rata portion from Respondents.
According to the Commission staff and Respondents, implementing such a process would not
be practicable given that the Respondents lack access to the requisite trading records for all
ultimate customers and such customers also lack knowledge of which transactions involved
the taking of TP. Moreover, in light of the outreach process incorporated in Section 10 of the
Plan, the Commission has added significant steps to help ensure that distribution payments
reach harmed customers. Accordingly, the Commission declines to further modify the Plan
based on this comment.

11

Fourth, City requests that “any” residual amount in the Fair Fund be distributed in a
final pro rata distribution, rather than transferring such balance to the U.S. Treasury. The Plan
is structured to distribute essentially all funds to known harmed customers, thus, according to
the Commission staff, any residual amount remaining in the Fair Fund after the distribution is
expected to be de minimis. It is the practice of the Commission to send de minimis residual
amounts to the U.S. Treasury after Fair Fund distributions are completed because the
administrative cost and burden of conducting a follow-on distribution typically outweighs
paying additional de minimis amounts to eligible recipients. In response to this comment, the
Commission has added language, now in Section 16 of the Plan, that provides: in the event
there is a residual of undistributed Fair Fund funds that in the Commission staff’s view would
warrant consideration of an additional disbursement from the Fair Fund, the Commission may
exercise its discretion to enter an order for an additional distribution to harmed customers
who, after an initial disbursement of the Fair Fund, and in accordance with the methodology
set forth in Section 9, remain eligible to receive additional funds.
4. The Federated Investors, Inc. Letter
Stephen A. Keen submitted a comment letter, dated June 9, 2014, on behalf of
Federated Investors, Inc. (“Federated”). Federated requested a modification to the distribution
methodology of the Proposed Plan for customers that placed orders as investment adviser
intermediaries (e.g., Wrap Advisers). Specifically, Federated requested that the Respondents
be ordered to engage an independent fund administrator to engage in an outreach process to
underlying intermediaries (e.g., Wrap Sponsors), through which those lower level
intermediaries would be presented options as to how, and the manner in which, they wish to
participate in the Fair Fund distribution on behalf of their underlying customers. Federated
also stated that the Proposed Plan would unfairly impose a burden on Federated outside the

12

scope of its obligations as a Wrap Advisor and cause it to violate the custody requirements of
the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.
The Commission has considered Federated’s comments, together with the similar and
related concerns raised by the EII, Neuberger and the City. In response, as described above,
the Commission has incorporated in the Plan an outreach process in Section 10, to be
administered by a third-party fund administrator in Section 3, to facilitate the identification of
appropriate recipients for distribution payments. The Commission concludes that the Plan
addresses the concerns raised by Federated and other commenters on this issue, provides the
flexibility necessary to address and resolve the wide variety of potential issues that may arise
with different customers, and is fair and reasonable.
5. The Towers Watson (Pty) Ltd. Letter
Anthony Lester, of Towers Watson (Pty) Ltd., submitted a comment letter, dated
August 8, 2014, on behalf of his client, “Client 5” (described in paragraph 57 of the Deferred
Prosecution Agreement, dated December 12, 2013, between the Department of Justice and
ConvergEx Group, LLC). Mr. Lester wrote that it was “fundamentally unfair” for the
Commission to treat U.S. and non-U.S. equities differently, as proposed, particularly where
his client relied on the fact that Respondent was an affiliate of a large U.S. firm regulated by
the Commission. Mr. Lester also noted Client 5’s agreement with the arguments regarding the
same issue raised by comment letters from the City of Philadelphia and EII.
The Commission has considered the comments of Towers Watson (Pty) Ltd., which
essentially reiterate the comments of EII with regard to the treatment of U.S. and non-U.S.
securities in the distribution. For the same reasons explained above (supra at pp.7-9, §2, ¶¶ 35) in response to EII’s comment regarding the treatment of U.S. and non-U.S. securities in the
distribution, the Commission in its discretion declines to modify the Proposed Plan’s
distribution methodology.

13

B. Modification and Approval of the Plan
For the reasons stated above, the Commission finds that the Proposed Plan should be
modified in response to some of the comments submitted, with the changes that are
incorporated into the Plan submitted herewith.
III.
Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, pursuant to Rule 1104, 17 C.F.R.
§ 201.1104, the Plan for this matter is approved, and it shall be posted simultaneously with
this Order on the Commission’s website at www.sec.gov.

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

14

