SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
(Release No. 34-76381; File No. SR-MSRB-2015-09)
November 6, 2015
Self-Regulatory Organizations; Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board; Order Granting
Approval of a Proposed Rule Change Consisting of Proposed Amendments to Rule G-20, on
Gifts, Gratuities and Non-Cash Compensation, and Rule G-8, on Books and Records to be Made
by Brokers, Dealers, Municipal Securities Dealers, and Municipal Advisors, and the Deletion of
Prior Interpretive Guidance
I.

Introduction

On September 2, 2015, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (the “MSRB” or
“Board”) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) pursuant to
Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Act”) 1 and Rule 19b-4 thereunder, 2 a
proposed rule change consisting of proposed amendments to MSRB Rule G-20 on gifts,
gratuities and non-cash compensation, proposed amendments to MSRB Rule G-8, on books and
records to be made by brokers, dealers, municipal securities dealers, and municipal advisors, and
the deletion of prior interpretive guidance that would be codified by proposed amended Rule G20 (the “proposed rule change”).
The proposed rule change was published for comment in the Federal Register on
September 22, 2015. 3 The Commission received three comment letters on the proposed rule

1

15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1).

2

17 CFR 240.19b-4.

3

Securities Exchange Act Release No. 75932 (September 16, 2015), 80 FR 57240
(September 22, 2015) (the “Notice”).

change. 4 On November 2, 2015, the MSRB submitted a response to these comments. 5 This order
approves the proposed rule change.
II.

Description of the Proposed Rule Change

Existing Rule G-20 is designed, in part, to minimize the conflicts of interest that arise
when a dealer attempts to induce organizations active in the municipal securities market to
engage in business with such dealers by means of personal gifts or gratuities given to employees
of such organizations. 6 According to the MSRB, the proposed rule change addresses
improprieties and conflicts that may arise when municipal advisors and/or their associated
persons 7 give gifts or gratuities to employees who may influence the award of municipal
advisory business. 8 In summary, the MSRB has proposed amendments to Rule G-20 that would:
•

Extend the relevant existing provisions of Rule G-20 to municipal advisors and their
associated persons and to gifts given in relation to municipal advisory activities;

4

See Letters from Tamara K. Salmon, Senior Associate Counsel, Investment Company
Institute (“ICI”), dated September 25, 2015 (“ICI Letter”); Leslie M. Norwood,
Managing Director and Associate General Counsel, Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association (“SIFMA”), dated October 13, 2015 (“SIFMA Letter”); and Terri
Heaton, President, National Association of Municipal Advisors (“NAMA”), dated
October 16, 2015 (“NAMA Letter”).

5

See Letter from Michael L. Post, General Counsel – Regulatory Affairs, MSRB, dated
November 2, 2015 (“MSRB Response Letter”).

6

See MSRB Notice 2004-17 (June 15, 2004).

7

MSRB Rule D-11 defines “associated persons” as follows: Unless the context otherwise
requires or a rule of the Board otherwise specifically provides, the terms “broker,”
“dealer,” “municipal securities broker,” “municipal securities dealer,” “bank dealer,” and
“municipal advisor” shall refer to and include their respective associated persons. Unless
otherwise specified, persons whose functions are solely clerical or ministerial shall not be
considered associated persons for purposes of the Board’s rules.

8

See supra note 3 at 57240-41.
2

•

Consolidate and codify interpretive guidance, including interpretive guidance published
by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (“FINRA”) and adopted by the
MSRB and delete prior interpretive guidance that would be codified by proposed
amended Rule G-20;

•

Add a new provision prohibiting a regulated entity from seeking or obtaining
reimbursement of certain entertainment expenses from the proceeds of an offering of
municipal securities; and

•

Make several revisions that are designed to assist brokers, dealers, and municipal
securities dealers (“dealers”) and municipal advisors (dealers, together with municipal
advisors, “regulated entities”) and their associated persons with their understanding of
and compliance with Rule G-20.

In summary, the MSRB has proposed amendments to Rule G-8 that would:
•

Extend to municipal advisors the recordkeeping requirements related to Rule G-20 that
currently apply to dealers; and

•

Amend the rule language contained in Rule G-8(a)(xvii)(A), (B), and (C) applicable to
dealers to reflect the revisions to proposed amended Rule G-20.

Extension of Rule G-20 to Municipal Advisors and Municipal Advisory Activities
The MSRB has proposed to extend to municipal advisors and their associated persons: (i)
the general dealer prohibition of gifts or gratuities in excess of $100 per person per year in
relation to the municipal securities activities of the recipient’s employer (the “$100 limit”); (ii)
the exclusions contained in the existing rule from that general prohibition (including certain
consolidations and the codifications of prior interpretive guidance) and the addition of
bereavement gifts to those exclusions; and (iii) the existing exclusion relating to contracts of

3

employment or compensation for services. Proposed section (g) of Rule G-20, on non-cash
compensation in connection with primary offerings, is not being extended to municipal advisors
or to associated persons thereof.
(i)

General Prohibition of Gifts or Gratuities in Excess of $100 Per Year

The MSRB has proposed section (c) of Rule G-20 which extends to a municipal advisor
and its associated persons the provision that currently prohibits a dealer and its associated
persons, in certain circumstances, from giving directly or indirectly any thing or service of value,
including gratuities (“gifts”), in excess of $100 per year to a person (other than an employee of
the dealer). The prohibited payments or services by a regulated entity or associated persons
would be those provided in relation to the municipal securities activities or municipal advisory
activities of the employer of the recipient (other than an employee of the regulated entity).
(ii)

Exclusions From the $100 Limit

The MSRB has proposed section (d) of Rule G-20 which extends to a municipal advisor
and its associated persons the provision that excludes certain gifts from the $100 limit of
proposed section (c) as long as the conditions articulated by proposed section (d) and the relevant
subsection, as applicable, are met. Section (d) states that gifts, in order to be excluded from the
$100 limit, must not give rise to any apparent or actual material conflict of interest.
Proposed section (d) of Rule G-20 includes subsections (d)(i) through (d)(iv) and (d)(vi)
which consolidate and codify interpretive guidance that the MSRB provided in MSRB Notice
2007-06 (the “2007 MSRB Gifts Notice”). 9 The 2007 MSRB Gifts Notice’s interpretive

9

See Dealer Payments in Connection with the Municipal Issuance Process, MSRB Notice
2007-06 (Jan. 29, 2007).

4

guidance also included FINRA guidance that the MSRB had adopted by reference. 10 Further,
proposed subsection (d)(v) would codify FINRA interpretive guidance relating to bereavement
gifts that the MSRB previously had not adopted. 11
The MSRB has proposed subsection (d)(i) of Rule G-20 which extends to a municipal
advisor and its associated persons the current exclusion of a gift of meals or tickets to theatrical,
sporting, and other entertainment given by a dealer or its associated persons from the $100 limit
if they are a “normal business dealing.” Such exclusion is subject to the limitations as described
in proposed subsection (d)(i).
Proposed subsections (d)(ii) through (iv) establish three categories of gifts that were
previously excluded from the $100 limit under the category of “reminder advertising” in the rule
language regarding “normal business dealings” in existing section (b) of Rule G-20. The MSRB
has proposed to delete the concept of “reminder advertising” from the “normal business
dealings” exclusion under current paragraph (b). This amendment would clarify the types of gifts
in the nature of reminder advertising that would be excluded from the $100 limit. These changes
conform draft amended paragraph (d) with current FINRA interpretive guidance that the MSRB
has stated applies to Rule G-20. 12 These three categories are:
•

gifts commemorative of a business transaction, such as a desk ornament or Lucite
tombstone (proposed subsection (d)(ii));

10

See 2007 MSRB Gifts Notice (reminding dealers of the application of Rule G-20 and
Rule G-17 in connection with certain payments made and expenses reimbursed during the
municipal bond issuance process, and stating that the National Association of Securities
Dealers, Inc.’s (“NASD”) guidance provided in NASD Notice to Members 06-69 (Dec.
2006) to assist dealers in complying with NASD Rule 3060 applies as well to comparable
provisions of Rule G-20).

11

See supra note 3 at 57242.

12

Id. at 57241.
5

•

de minimis gifts, such as pens and notepads (proposed subsection (d)(iii)); and

•

promotional gifts of nominal value that bear an entity’s corporate or other
business logo and that are substantially below the $100 limit (proposed subsection
(d)(iv)).

Proposed subsection (d)(v) of Rule G-20 excludes bereavement gifts which are
reasonable and customary for the circumstances from the $100 limit. According to the MSRB,
proposed subsection (d)(v) of Rule G-20 codifies FINRA interpretive guidance currently
applicable to dealers relating to bereavement gifts that the MSRB previously had not adopted. 13
Finally, the MSRB has proposed subsection (d)(vi) of Rule G-20 which excludes
personal gifts given upon the occurrence of infrequent life events, such as a wedding gift or a
congratulatory gift for the birth of a child. According to the MSRB, this proposed subsection
consolidates and codifies the FINRA personal gift guidance currently applicable to dealers. 14
The “frequency” and “extensiveness” limitations applicable to proposed subsection (d)(i)
of Rule G-20 would not apply to proposed subsections (d)(ii) through (vi). The MSRB has
proposed to modify those limitations to better reflect the characteristics of the gifts described in
proposed subsections (d)(ii) through (vi). 15 According to the MSRB, gifts described in those
subsections in the proposed rule change are by their nature given infrequently and/or are of such
nominal value that retaining the requirement that such gifts be “not so frequent or extensive”

13

Id. at 57242.

14

Id.

15

Id.

6

would be unnecessarily duplicative of the description of these gifts and could result in
confusion. 16
To assist regulated entities with their understanding of the exclusions described and with
their compliance with the rule, the MSRB has provided guidance in the Supplementary Material.
Paragraph .03 of the Supplementary Material provides guidance regarding promotional gifts and
“other business logos” including what would constitute an “other business logo.” Paragraph .04
of the Supplementary Material provides guidance regarding personal gifts including factors that
should be considered when determining whether a gift is given in connection with the municipal
securities or municipal advisory services of the employer of the recipient.
(iii)

Exclusion for Compensation Paid as a Result of Contracts of Employment
or Compensation for Services

The MSRB has proposed section (f) which extends to municipal advisors the exclusion
from the $100 limit in existing Rule G-20(c) for contracts of employment with or compensation
for services that are rendered pursuant to a prior written agreement meeting certain content
requirements. The MSRB has stated that proposed section (f) would clarify that the exclusion
applies only to the compensation paid as a result of certain employment contracts, and does not
apply to the existence or creation of employment contracts. The MSRB further stated that
proposed section (f) is only a clarification and would not alter the requirements currently
applicable to dealers. 17

16

Id.

17

Id.

7

Consolidation and Codification of MSRB and FINRA Interpretive Guidance
As discussed, the MSRB has proposed to consolidate and codify existing FINRA
interpretive guidance previously adopted by the MSRB and incorporate additional relevant
FINRA interpretive guidance that has not previously been adopted by the MSRB in both Rule G20 text and the Supplementary Material. While FINRA’s interpretive guidance regarding
bereavement gifts was not formerly adopted by the MSRB, the MSRB believes that this guidance
will be appropriate for regulated entities as it is consistent with the purpose and scope of
proposed amended Rule G-20. Further, the MSRB stated its belief that the consolidation and
codification of the applicable interpretive guidance will promote compliance with the rule and
create efficiencies for regulated entities and regulatory enforcement agencies. 18
In addition to the interpretive guidance discussed above, proposed paragraphs .01, .02,
and .05 of the Supplementary Material would provide guidance relating to the valuation and the
aggregation of gifts and to the applicability of state laws. Proposed paragraph .01 of the
Supplementary Material would state that a gift’s value should be determined generally according
to the higher of its cost or market value. Proposed paragraph .02 of the Supplementary Material
would state that regulated entities must aggregate all gifts that are subject to the $100 limit given
by the regulated entity and each associated person of the regulated entity to a particular recipient
over the course of a year however “year” is selected to be defined by the regulated entity.
Proposed paragraphs .01 and .02 reflect existing FINRA interpretive guidance regarding the
aggregation of gifts for purposes of its gift rules, which the MSRB has previously adopted.
Proposed paragraph .05 of the Supplementary Material would remind regulated entities
that, in addition to all the requirements of proposed amended Rule G-20, regulated entities may
18

Id.

8

also be subject to other duties, restrictions, or obligations under state or other laws and that
proposed amended Rule G-20 would not supersede any more restrictive provisions of state or
other laws applicable to regulated entities or their associated persons.
Prohibition of Reimbursement for Entertainment Expenses
The MSRB has also proposed section (e) of Rule G-20 which provides that a regulated
entity is prohibited from requesting or obtaining reimbursement for certain entertainment
expenses from the proceeds of a municipal securities offering. The MSRB stated its belief that
this provision would address a matter highlighted by a recent FINRA enforcement action.
Proposed section (e) provides that an entertainment expense excludes “ordinary and reasonable
expenses for meals hosted by the regulated entity and directly related to the offering for which
the regulated entity was retained.” The MSRB has stated that proposed section (e) is intended to
allow the continuation of the generally accepted market practice of a regulated entity advancing
normal travel costs to personnel of a municipal entity or obligated person for business travel
related to a municipal securities issuance and obtaining reimbursement for such costs. 19
Additional Proposed Amendments to Rule G-20
In addition to the previously discussed proposed amendments to Rule G-20, the MSRB
proposed several amendments which it believes will assist readers with their understanding of
and compliance with Rule G-20. 20 These proposed amendments include (i) a revised rule title,
(ii) a new provision stating the rule’s purpose, and (iii) a re-ordering of existing provisions and
additional defined terms.

19

Id.

20

Id.

9

Recordkeeping Requirements
The MSRB has proposed amendments to Rule G-8 which extend to municipal advisors
the recordkeeping requirements related to Rule G-20 that currently apply to dealers. Municipal
advisor recordkeeping requirements would be identical to the recordkeeping requirements to
which dealers would be subject in proposed amended Rule G-8(a)(xvii)(A) and (B).
The MSRB has proposed to amend the language contained in Rule G-8(a)(xvii)(A), (B),
and (C) applicable to dealers, to reflect the revisions to proposed amended Rule G-20. Proposed
amended paragraph (a)(xvii)(A) provides that a separate record of any gift or gratuity subject to
the general limitation of proposed amended Rule G-20(c) must be made and kept by dealers
(emphasis added to amended rule text). Paragraph (a)(xvii)(B) would be amended to clarify that
dealers must make and keep records of all agreements referred to in proposed amended Rule G20(f) and records of all compensation paid as a result of those agreements (emphasis added to
proposed amended rule text). The proposed amendments would also track the reordering of
sections in proposed amended Rule G-20 and provide greater specificity as to the records that a
dealer must maintain by referencing the terms used in proposed amended Rule G-20.
The proposed rule change would extend the provisions of existing Rule G-8 to require
that municipal advisors as well as dealers make and keep records of: gifts given that are subject
to the $100 limit; and all agreements referred to in proposed section (f) (on compensation for
services) and records of compensation paid as a result of those agreements.
Implementation Date
The MSRB requested that the proposed rule change be approved with an implementation
date six months after the Commission approval date for all changes.

10

III.

Summary of Comments Received and the MSRB’s Response

As noted previously, the Commission received three comment letters on the proposed
rule change. 21 The commenters generally support the proposed rule change. 22 However, some
commenters asked for further clarification and provided suggestions to the proposed rule
change. 23 In response to an earlier request for comment by the MSRB on the draft amendments
to Rules G-20 and G-8, 24 the MSRB received eight comment letters and responded to the
comments in the Notice. In the MSRB Response Letter, the MSRB incorporated by reference its
response to comments made in the Notice noting that the three comments received on the
proposed rule change were the same or substantially similar to the comments made in response
to the MSRB Request for Comment. 25 The MSRB believes the proposed rule change is
appropriately tailored and responded to the commenters as discussed below.
A. Application of Proposed Amended Rule G-20(c) to Certain Recipients
NAMA commented that under the MSRB’s proposed Rule G-20, the $100 limit would
seem not to apply to gifts given to employees or officials of municipal entities or obligated
persons because such persons, for the most part, do not engage in “municipal advisory
activities.” 26 NAMA noted that the MSRB indicated in the Notice that prior interpretive

21

See supra note 4.

22

Id.

23

Id.

24

Request for Comment on Draft Amendments to MSRB Rule G-20, on Gifts, Gratuities
and Non-Cash Compensation, to Extend its Provisions to Municipal Advisors, MSRB
Notice 2014-18 (Oct. 23, 2014) (“MSRB Request for Comment”).

25

See supra note 5.

26

See NAMA Letter.
11

guidance made clear issuer personnel are considered to engage in “municipal securities
activities” and requested that the MSRB codify this guidance in Rule G-20. 27 The MSRB
responded to NAMA stating that the language of both existing Rule G–20 and proposed
amended Rule G–20 applies to gifts given in relation to this broad term “municipal securities
activities.” 28
NAMA also commented that many municipal official and governing board members are
not employees of municipal entities or obligated persons, and therefore it appears that G-20 does
not apply to gifts given to non-employee officials of municipal entities and obligated persons. 29
The MSRB responded by stating that it believes for purposes of existing and proposed amended
Rule G-20, elected and appointed officials are considered employees of the governmental entity
on behalf of which they act as agent or representative. 30
B. Changing the Amount of the $100 Limit
In its comments, NAMA proposed that the $100 limit be raised to $250 per person per
year which would aid in limiting conflicts of interest and also align Rule G-20 with MSRB Rule
G-37. 31 NAMA stated that in Rule G-37 the MSRB determined that the contribution level of
$250 was sufficient to address the needs of individuals seeking to give political contributions
while not allowing those contributions to be so excessive as to allow the contributor to gain

27

Id.

28

See supra notes 5 and 24.

29

See NAMA Letter.

30

See supra notes 5 and 24.

31

See NAMA Letter.

12

undue influence. 32 NAMA proposed that supplementary material be added to state, in effect, that
occasional gifts of meals or tickets to theatrical, sporting, and other entertainments that are
hosted by the regulated entity would be presumed to be so extensive as to raise a question of
propriety if they exceed $250 in any year in conjunction with any gifts provided under Rule G20(c). 33 NAMA asserted that because the purposes of Rule G-20 and Rule G-37 both are meant
to limit a dealer’s or a municipal advisor’s ability to gain undue influence through the giving of
gifts or contributions that the rules should be written similarly. 34
The MSRB responded to NAMA by stating that Rule G-37 is designed to address
potential political corruption that may result from pay-to-play practices, 35 and as such, is tailored
in light of First Amendment concerns. Existing Rule G-20 is designed to address commercial
bribery by minimizing the conflicts of interest that arise when a dealer attempts to induce
organizations active in the municipal securities market to engage in business with such dealer by
means of gifts or gratuities given to employees of such organizations. 36 The MSRB stated that
Rules G-37 and G-20 address substantially different regulatory needs in different legal contexts,
and therefore the dollar amounts are likewise justifiably different. 37

32

Id.

33

Id.

34

Id.

35

See supra notes 5 and 24.

36

Id.

37

Id.

13

C. “Normal Business Dealings”
NAMA commented that proposed amended Rule G-20(d), which sets forth the exclusions
from the $100 limit, leaves open opportunities for abuse. 38 NAMA expressed specific concern
regarding proposed subsection (d)(i), which would, under certain circumstances, exclude from
the $100 limit the giving of occasional meals or tickets to theatrical, sporting or entertainment
events. 39 In NAMA’s view, regulated entities would be able to engage in otherwise
impermissible gift giving under the guise of “normal business dealings,” and such gift giving
likely would result in the improper influence that Rule G-20 was designed to curtail. 40 NAMA
suggested modifying the amended rule to impose an aggregate limit of $250 on all gifts given as
part of “normal business dealings” and gifts and gratuities given under proposed subsection (c)
believing the aggregate limit would be consistent with the dollar threshold used in MSRB Rule
G-37. 41
The MSRB responded that in order to curtail any abuse of the exception to the $100 limit,
proposed amended Rule G-20 places conditions on the excluded gifts, including those that fall
under “normal business dealings.” 42 All of the gifts described in proposed section (d) would be
excluded only if they do not “give rise to any apparent or actual material conflict of interest,”
and, under proposed section (d)(i), “normal business dealing” gifts would be excluded only if

38

See NAMA Letter.

39

Id.

40

Id.

41

Id.

42

See supra notes 5 and 24.

14

they are not “so frequent or so extensive as to raise any question of propriety.” 43 The MSRB
further stated that dealers and municipal advisors are subject to the fundamental fair-dealing
obligations of MSRB Rule G-17. 44 The MSRB stated that Rule G-17 likely addresses at least
some of the concerns raised by NAMA by prohibiting regulated entities from characterizing
excessive or lavish expenses for the personal benefit of issuer personnel as an expense of the
issue, as such behavior could possibly constitute a deceptive, dishonest or unfair practice. 45
D. Incorporation of Applicable FINRA Interpretive Guidance
ICI commented that the MSRB should incorporate the relevant portions of certain NASD
guidance regarding the value of promotional items into Rule G-20. 46 ICI also encouraged the
MSRB to do so in order to ease the compliance burden on regulated entities as well as make
clear that the monetary limits in Rule G-20 do not apply to “customary Lucite tombstones,
plaques or other similar solely decorative items commemorating a business transaction, even
when such items have a cost of more than $100.” 47
In response to ICI, the MSRB stated that such interpretive guidance published by NASD
has been incorporated into proposed amended Rule G-20. 48 The MSRB also stated that proposed
Rule G-20(d)(ii) provides that the general $100 limitation does not apply to “[g]ifts that are
solely decorative items commemorating a business transaction, such as a customary plaque or
43

Id.

44

Id.

45

Id.

46

See ICI Letter.

47

Id.

48

See supra note 5.

15

desk ornament (e.g., Lucite tombstone).” 49 The MSRB noted that this description does not
contain a monetary limit, and therefore the provision fully addresses ICI’s comment. 50
E. Recordkeeping Requirements
NAMA commented that a regulated entity should be required to maintain records for
gifts that are subject to either the normal business dealing exclusion under proposed amended
Rule G-20(c) or Rule G-20(d)(i). 51 NAMA noted that gifts that constitute normal business
dealings under proposed amended Rule G-20(d)(i) require recordkeeping to comply with certain
requirements of the Internal Revenue Service and of various municipalities. 52 Therefore,
according to NAMA, imposing a recordkeeping requirement would not be an entirely new
burden, would provide protection against pay-to-play activities and would provide a means to
determine whether such gifts give rise to questions of impropriety or conflicts of interest. 53
NAMA also commented that to allow for meaningful enforcement the MSRB should require a
regulated entity to keep records of any personal gifts given pursuant to proposed amended Rule
G-20(d)(iv) that were paid for, directly or indirectly, by the regulated entity. 54
The MSRB responded to NAMA stating that it believes that the recordkeeping
requirements of Rule G-8(h) that relate to Rule G-20 should be limited to items that are subject
to the $100 limit so as to continue to align recordkeeping under Rule G-20 with existing FINRA
49

Id.

50

Id.

51

See NAMA Letter.

52

Id.

53

Id.

54

Id.

16

recordkeeping requirements for dealers. 55 The MSRB further stated that significant safeguards
are already in place, including Rules G-27, G-44, and G-17, which weigh against imposing the
additional recordkeeping burdens on regulated entities. 56 The MSRB further noted that it
reminded dealers in its 2007 MSRB Gifts Notice on Rule G-20 that they must have supervisory
policies and procedures in place under Rule G-27 that are reasonably designed to prevent and
detect violations of Rule G-20 (and of other applicable securities laws). 57 The MSRB also stated
that recently adopted Rule G-44, on supervision and compliance obligations of municipal
advisors, imposes similar supervisory requirements on municipal advisors. 58 Finally, the MSRB
notes that they reminded dealers in 2007 in particular contexts that the making of payments that
might not otherwise be subject to Rule G-20 could constitute separate violations of Rule G-17,
which currently applies to municipal advisors and dealers. 59
SIFMA commented that it objects to the requirement that brokers, dealers and municipal
securities dealers keep records related to Rule G-20 for a period of six years because municipal
advisors only need to retain them for five years. 60 The MSRB responded to SIFMA stating that
this topic is addressed in MSRB Rule G-9 which was not included as part of the proposed rule
change and therefore no revision to the proposed rule change is necessary. 61

55

See supra notes 5 and 24.

56

Id.

57

Id.

58

Id.

59

Id.

60

See SIFMA Letter.

61

See supra note 5.
17

V.

Discussion and Commission Findings
The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements

of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to the MSRB. In particular, the
proposed rule change is consistent with Sections 15B(b)(2) and 15B(b)(2)(C) of the Act. Section
15B(b)(2) of the Act provides that the MSRB shall propose and adopt rules to effect the purposes
of that title with respect to transactions in municipal securities effected by brokers, dealers, and
municipal securities dealers and advice provided to or on behalf of municipal entities or
obligated persons by brokers, dealers, municipal securities dealers, and municipal advisors with
respect to municipal financial products, the issuance of municipal securities, and solicitations of
municipal entity or obligated persons undertaken by brokers, dealers, municipal securities
dealers, and municipal advisors. 62 Section 15B(b)(2)(C) of the Act requires that the MSRB’s
rules shall be designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just
and equitable principles of trade, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in
regulating, clearing, settling, processing information with respect to, and facilitating transactions
in municipal securities and municipal financial products, to remove impediments to and perfect
the mechanism of a free and open market in municipal securities and municipal financial
products, and, in general, to protect investors, municipal entities, obligated persons, and the
public interest.” 63
The proposed rule change would help prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and
practices, promote just and equitable principles of trade and protect investors, municipal entities,
obligated persons, and the public interest by reducing, or at least exposing, the potential for
62

15 U.S.C. 78o-4(b)(2).

63

15 U.S.C. 78o-4(b)(2)(C).
18

conflicts of interests in municipal advisory activities by extending the policies embodied in
existing Rule G-20 to municipal advisors and their associated persons and establishing a
common standard for all regulated entities that operate in the municipal securities market. The
proposed rule change would help ensure that engagements of municipal advisors, as well as
engagements of dealers, are awarded on the basis of merit and not as a result of gifts made to
employees controlling the award of such business. In addition, by prohibiting the reimbursement
of entertainment expenses from the proceeds of a municipal securities issuance, the proposed
rule change will provide regulated entities with clear notice and guidance regarding MSRB
regulation of such matters. Further, codifying certain applicable MSRB interpretive guidance and
adopting and codifying certain FINRA interpretive guidance will increase awareness of such
guidance by regulated entities and in turn improve compliance and help prevent inadvertent
violations of Rule G-20.
In addition, the proposed amendments to Rule G-8 will assist in the enforcement of Rule
G-20 by extending the relevant existing recordkeeping requirements of Rule G-8 that currently
are applicable to dealers to municipal advisors. Regulated entities will be required to create and
maintain records in a consistent manner which the Commission believes will allow organizations
that examine regulated entities to more precisely monitor and promote compliance with the
proposed rule change. Increased compliance with the proposed rule change would likely reduce
the frequency and magnitude of conflicts of interests that could potentially result in harm to
investors, municipal entities, or obligated persons, or undermine the public’s confidence in the
municipal securities market.
The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section
15B(b)(2)(L)(iv) of the Act, in that it does not impose a regulatory burden on small municipal

19

advisors that is not necessary or appropriate in the public interest and for the protection of
investors, municipal entities, and obligated persons, provided that there is robust protection of
investors against fraud. 64 While the proposed rule change would affect all municipal
advisors, including small municipal advisors, the Commission believes the proposed rule change
is a necessary and appropriate regulatory burden in order to limit practices that could harm
investors, municipal entities and obligated persons. The proposed rule change will likely reduce
the frequency and severity of violations of the public trust by elected officials and others
involved in the issuance of municipal securities that might otherwise have their decisions
regarding the award of municipal advisory business influenced by the gifts given by regulated
entities and their associated persons. Further, codifying certain interpretive guidance will help
minimize compliance costs which will benefit all regulated entities, including small municipal
advisors. While the proposed rule change would burden some small municipal advisors, the
Commission believes that such burden is outweighed by the need to maintain the integrity of the
municipal securities market and to preserve investor and public confidence in the municipal
securities market, including the bond issuance process.
In addition, the Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with
Section 15B(b)(2)(G) of the Act which provides that the MSRB’s rules shall prescribe records to
be made and kept by municipal securities brokers, municipal securities dealers, and municipal
advisors and the periods for which such records shall be preserved. 65 The proposed rule change
would extend the provisions of existing Rule G-8 to require that municipal advisors as well as
dealers make and keep records related to Rule G-20 as amended by the proposed rule change.
64

15 U.S.C. 78o-4(b)(2)(L)(iv).

65

15 U.S.C. 78o-4(b)(2)(G).

20

In approving the proposed rule change, the Commission has considered the proposed
rule’s impact on efficiency, competition and capital formation. 66 The Commission believes the
proposed rule change will help promote competition. By extending the relevant current
restrictions embodied in existing MSRB Rule G-20 to municipal advisors and their municipal
advisory activities, the proposed rule change will promote merit-based and price-based
competition for municipal advisory services and limit the selection or retention of a municipal
advisor based on the receipt of gifts. A market where regulated entities compete on the basis of
price and quality of services is more likely to provide a level playing field for existing regulated
entities within which to operate and also encourages the entry of new providers. By extending
the policies embodied in existing MSRB Rule G-20 to municipal advisors and their municipal
advisory activities, the proposed rule change will also establish common standards for dealers
and municipal advisors that operate in the same municipal securities market. The Commission
also believes that by codifying certain interpretive guidance, the proposed rule change will
clarify the obligations of dealers and municipal advisors and ease compliance burdens. The
Commission believes that the effect of the proposed rule is beneficial and the proposed changes
will help maintain the integrity of the municipal securities market and preserve investor and
public confidence.
As noted above, the Commission received three comment letters on the filing. The
Commission believes that the MSRB through its responses has addressed commenters concerns.
For the reasons noted above, including those discussed in the MSRB Response Letter, the
Commission believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with the Act.

66

15 U.S.C. 78c(f).
21

V.

Conclusion
IT IS THEREFORE ORDERED, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 67 that the

proposed rule change (SR-MSRB-2015-09) be, and hereby is, approved.
For the Commission, pursuant to delegated authority. 68

Robert W. Errett
Deputy Secretary

67

15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2).

68

17 CFR 200.30-3(a)(12).
22

