UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78927 / September 23, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4535 / September 23, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17572
In the Matter of

ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
AND SECTION 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

JACK TAGLIAFERRO,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Section 203(f) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Jack Tagliaferro (“Respondent” or
“Tagliaferro”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s
jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the findings contained in
paragraphs III.2 and III.4 below, and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative
Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 203(f)
of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions
(“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
From in or about January 2009 to in or about July 2010, Tagliaferro defrauded
investors in Lenco Mobile Inc. (“Lenco”), an issuer with common stock registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act that was subject to Exchange Act reporting obligations pursuant
to Section 13(a). Among other things, Tagliaferro, while a registered representative associated
with two broker-dealers registered with the Commission, received undisclosed commissions in
exchange for buying Lenco stock in his customers’ accounts. Tagliaferro, 44 years old, resides at
the Northeast Ohio Correctional Center in Youngstown, Ohio.
Respondent participated in an offering of Lenco stock, which was a penny stock.
2.
On November 16, 2015, a final judgment was entered by consent against
Respondent, permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the
Securities Act of 1933, and Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder in the
civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Jason Cope et al., Civil Action
Number 14 Civ. 7575, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York.
3.
The Commission’s Amended Complaint alleged that Respondent defrauded
investors by, inter alia, accepting undisclosed commissions from Izak Zirk de Maison (f/k/a Izak
Zirk Engelbrecht) (“Engelbrecht”) to buy in his customers’ accounts Lenco stock that Engelbrecht
was selling in the open market.
4.
On April 27, 2016, Respondent pled guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit
securities fraud, 18 U.S.C. § 1348, and wire fraud, 18 U.S.C. § 1343, in violation of 18 U.S.C. §
1349; and three counts of wire fraud in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1343 before the United States
District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, in United States v. William Scholander et al.,
Crim. Indictment No. 1:15-cr-335.
5.
The counts of the criminal indictment to which Respondent pled guilty alleged,
inter alia, that Respondent (i) conspired to (a) defraud persons in connection with the securities of
an issuer and to obtain money and property by means of false and fraudulent pretenses in
connection with the purchase and sale of securities, and (b) devise a scheme to defraud investors
by transmitting and causing the transmission by means of wire communications in interstate
commerce writings, signs, signals, and pictures; and (ii) transmitted and caused to be transmitted,
writings, signs, signals, pictures, and sounds by means of wire and radio communication, in
interstate commerce, for the purpose of executing and attempting to execute a scheme and artifice
to defraud and to obtain money and property by means of false pretenses.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Tagliaferro’s Offer.
2

Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act,
and Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act, that Respondent Tagliaferro be, and hereby is barred from
association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal
advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating organization; and
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent Tagliaferro be, and hereby is
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder,
consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for
purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the
purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

