UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78515 / August 9, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17367
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
TERRY PICKERING
LOBELSKY,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Terry Pickering
Lobelsky (“Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s
jurisdiction over her and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the findings contained in
Section III.2 below and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings
Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing
Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
A. RESPONDENT
1.
Lobelsky, age 59, is a resident of Cooper City, Florida. Respondent was a registered
representative who, from September 1998 through June 2013, was associated with three brokerdealers registered with the Commission. She previously held a Series 7 license. In January 2014,
FINRA permanently barred Lobelsky from association with any FINRA member firm.
B. RESPONDENT’S CRIMINAL CONVICTION
2.
On September 9, 2015, pursuant to a plea agreement, Lobelsky pled guilty to one
count of mail fraud in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1341 before the United
States District Court for the Southern District of Florida, in United States v. Terry Pickering
Lobelsky, Case No. 15-cr-60171-WJZ (S.D. Fla. Sept. 9, 2015). On June 3, 2016, Respondent was
sentenced to five years of reporting probation, including two years of home detention with
electronic monitoring and the completion of 300 hours of community service, and ordered to make
restitution in the amount of $248,797.82.
3.
The single count of the criminal indictment to which Lobelsky pleaded guilty
alleged, and Lobelsky admitted in a plea agreement, among other things, that while an employee at
two separate financial institutions between February 2011 and January 2013, Lobelsky
misappropriated customer funds by conducting transactions on their behalf without their
knowledge or consent. Lobelsky issued six bank checks, all of which were drawn on customer
accounts, to a local bank. The checks were mailed to the bank and deposited into her personal
account. Lobelsky also issued one check to a home mortgage loan company. The check was
mailed to the company and credited against her home mortgage balance. Lobelsky
misappropriated a total of $136,000 in this manner. As a result, Lobelsky was indicted in July
2015.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act that
Respondent be, and hereby is:
barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities
dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating
organization; and
2

barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter,
finder, consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or
issuer for purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting
to induce the purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

