UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78639 / August 23, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17393
ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
AND CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS,
PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 15(b) AND 21C
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934, MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASEAND-DESIST ORDER, AND NOTICE OF
HEARING

In the Matter of
CURTIS A. PETERSON
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted pursuant to Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange
Act”), against Curtis A. Peterson (“Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondent consents
to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-And-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to
Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Exchange Act, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions
and a Cease-And-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
Summary
These proceedings arise out Respondent’s participation as an unregistered broker-dealer in
the offer and sale of securities by JCS Enterprises, Inc. and T.B.T.I., Inc. in interstate commerce. In
April 2014, the Commission charged JCS Enterprises, Inc. d/b/a JCS Enterprises Services, Inc.
(“JCS”), and T.B.T.I., Inc. (“T.B.T.I.”), and their principals, with the ongoing offer and sale of
securities nationwide to investors, operating a Ponzi scheme and defrauding investors in a related
civil action alleging securities fraud in federal district court: SEC v. JCS Enterprises, Inc., et al.,
Case No. 14-cv-80468-DMM (S. D. Fla). JCS and its principal, Joseph Signore, and T.B.T.I. and
its principal, Paul L. Schumack, II, in offering the securities, falsely promised hundreds of investors
nationwide that their funds would be used to purchase ATM-like machines called Virtual Concierge
Machines (“VCMs”) that businesses could use to advertise products and services via touch screen
and printable tickets or coupons. However, Signore and Schumack and their companies, instead,
paid returns to earlier investors using money from newer investors, and failed to locate, place and
manage the purported VCMs. Respondent, acting as unregistered sales agents of JCS and T.B.T.I.
offered and sold JCS’s and T.B.T.I.’s investment contracts in JCS’ Virtual Concierge program and
earned transaction-based compensation from each sale.
Respondent
1.
Respondent, Curtis A. Peterson, 52, is a resident of Miami Springs, Florida.
Respondent solicited and sold investment contracts in VCMs to multiple investors. Respondent
does not hold any securities licenses, and has never been registered as or associated with a
registered broker-dealer.
Other Relevant Entitie s
2.
JCS is a Delaware corporation, incorporated in 2011, with its principal place of
business in Jupiter, Florida. JCS is currently a defendant in SEC v. JCS Enterprises, Inc., et al.,
Case No. 14-cv-80468-DMM.
3.
T.B.T.I. is a Florida corporation, incorporated in 2001, with its principal place of
business in Highland Beach and/or Boca Raton, Florida. T.B.T.I. is currently a defendant in SEC
v. JCS Enterprises, Inc., et al., Case No. 14-cv-80468-DMM.
Other Relevant Individuals
4.
Joseph Signore, 51, was Chairman and President of JCS. He resides in West Palm
Beach, Florida. Signore is currently a defendant in both SEC v. JCS Enterprises, Inc., et al.,
Case No. 14-cv-80468-DMM, and United States v. Signore et al., 14-cr-80081-DTKH.

2

5.
Paul L. Schumack, II, 58, was President of T.B.T.I., and resides in Pompano
Beach, Florida. Schumack is currently a defendant in both SEC v. JCS Enterprises, Inc., et al.,
Case No. 14-cv-80468-DMM, and United States v. Signore et al., 14-cr-80081-DTKH.
Facts
6.
From at least 2011, JCS and T.B.T.I. through and at the direction of their
respective principals Signore and Schumack fraudulently raised at least $60 million from sales of
securities to hundreds of investors nationwide. Signore and Schumack fraudulently guaranteed
exorbitant returns, ranging from 80 to 120% annually and up to 500% over the life of a three- or
four-year investment contract, by guaranteeing a $300 monthly return for the life of the contract.
7.
Signore and Schumack represented to investors their money would be invested in
the Virtual Concierge program through JCS and T.B.T.I. Investors’ participation in the Virtual
Concierge program was entirely passive. Investors relied on the companies to place, locate and
manage their investments. None of these investors were told about any risks associated with the
program including the return of principal or payment of returns. JCS and T.B.T.I. promised to
pay investors $300 a month per VCM. These returns were purportedly to be generated by
“advertising revenue.” The companies did not require investors to pay additional fees, expenses
or costs, and would purportedly inform investors about the location of their VCMs and provide
account updates.
8.
JCS and T.B.T.I., through their principals, touted the VCMs as a revolutionary
product and a fail-safe passive investment. In reality, however, they operated a Ponzi scheme,
where, through numerous misrepresentations and omissions, they used new investor funds to make
payments to earlier investors. The purported source of income, advertising revenue, was actually
miniscule. The majority of investors stopped receiving their monthly payments in January 2014
when the scheme collapsed.
9.
Respondent, from approximately March 2013 through December 2013, received,
individually and/or through a company under his control, $584,550 in transaction-based
compensation from JCS and T.B.T.I., in exchange for soliciting and securing investors through the
use of telephone and/or email.
10.
While regularly participating in these securities transactions and receiving
transaction-based compensation from JCS and T.B.T.I., Respondent was not registered or
associated with, a registered broker-dealer. As a result of the conduct described above,
Respondent willfully1 committed violations of Section 15(a)(1) of the Exchange Act, which makes
it unlawful for any broker or dealer to use the mails or any other means of interstate commerce to
“effect any transactions in, or to induce or attempt to induce the purchase or sale of, any
1

A willful violation of the securities laws means merely “‘that the person charged with the duty knows what he
is doing.’” Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000) (quoting Hughes v. SEC, 174 F.2d 969, 977 (D.C.
Cir. 1949)). There is no requirement that the actor “‘also be aware that he is violating one of the Rules or Acts.’” Id.
(quoting Gearhart & Otis, Inc. v. SEC, 348 F.2d 798, 803 (D.C. Cir. 1965)).

3

security” unless that broker or dealer is registered with the Commission in accordance with
Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest
to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Peterson’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Pursuant to Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent Curtis A.
Peterson cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of
Section 15(a)(1) of the Exchange Act.
B.
Respondent Curtis A. Peterson be, and hereby is barred from association with any
broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent,
nationally recognized statistical rating organization, and is barred from participating in any offering
of penny stock including: acting as a promoter, finder, consultant, agent or other person who
engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for purposes of the issuance or trading in any
penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the purchase or sale of any penny stock.
C.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the
applicable laws and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned
upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the
following: (a) any disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission
has fully or partially waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to
the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization
arbitration award to a customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for
the Commission order; and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or
not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order.
D.
Pursuant to this Order, Respondent agrees to additional proceedings in this
proceeding to determine whether it is appropriate to order disgorgement of ill-gotten gains
pursuant to Sections 21B and 21C of the Exchange Act, and, if so, the amount of the
disgorgement. If disgorgement is ordered, Respondent shall pay prejudgment interest thereon,
calculated from March 19, 2013 through April 7, 2014, based on the rate of interest used by the
Internal Revenue Service for the underpayment of federal income tax as set forth in 26 U.S.C.
§ 6621(a)(2). In connection with such additional proceedings, Respondent agrees: (a) he will be
precluded from arguing he did not violate the federal securities laws described in this Order; (b)
he may not challenge the validity of his Offer or this Order; (c) solely for the purposes of such
additional proceedings, the findings made in this Order shall be accepted as and deemed true by
the hearing officer; and (d) the hearing officer may determine the issues raised in the additional
proceedings on the basis of affidavits, declarations, excerpts of sworn deposition or investigative
testimony, and documentary evidence.

4

E.
Respondent shall, within 30 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money
penalty of $7,500 to the Securities and Exchange Commission. If timely payment is not made,
additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717.
F.

Payments pursuant to this Order must be made in one of the following ways:
(1) Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will
provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;
(2) Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through the
SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or
(3) Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States
postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and
hand-delivered or mailed to:
Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
Curtis A. Peterson as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings;
a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Russell Koonin, US Securities
and Exchange Commission, 801 Brickell Avenue, Miami, FL, 33131.
G.
Pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, a Fair
Fund is created for the disgorgement, interest and penalties referenced in paragraphs IV.D and
IV.E, above. Regardless of whether any such Fair Fund distribution is made, amounts ordered to
be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be treated as penalties paid to the
government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To preserve the deterrent effect of the
civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor Action, he shall not argue that he is
entitled to, nor shall he benefit by, offset or reduction of any award of compensatory damages by
the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil penalty in this action ("Penalty
Offset"). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty Offset, Respondent
agrees that he shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty Offset, notify
the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to the Securities
and Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil penalty and
shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty imposed in this proceeding. For
purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action" means a private damages action brought
against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based on substantially the same facts
as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this proceeding.

5

H.
All funds paid by Respondent pursuant to this Order shall be transferred to the
Receiver appointed in SEC v. JCS Enterprises, Inc., et al., 14-80468-CV-DMM (Southern District
of Florida) to be distributed for the benefit of investor victims according to a distribution plan to be
approved by the court in that litigation. In the event the receivership has been terminated and the
payments due under paragraphs IV.D and E have not been made in full, then the remaining
payments made by Respondent to the Commission shall be transmitted to the U.S. Treasury.
V.
IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the questions
set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened not earlier than 30 days and not later than 60 days
from service of this Order at a time and place to be fixed, and before an Administrative Law Judge
to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17
C.F.R. § 201.110.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent shall file an Answer to the allegations
contained in this Order within twenty (20) days after service of this Order, as provided by Rule 220
of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220.
If Respondent fails to file the directed answer, or fails to appear at a hearing after being duly
notified, the Respondent may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be determined against
him upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of which may be deemed to be true as
provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f) and 310 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R.
§§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f) and 201.310.
This Order shall be served forthwith upon Respondent as provided for in the Commission’s
Rules of Practice.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an initial
decision no later than 300 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to Rule 360(a)(2) of
the Commission’s Rules of Practice.
In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission engaged
in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually related
proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter, except as witness
or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice. Since this proceeding is not “rule making” within
the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it is not deemed subject to the
provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any final Commission action.

6

VI.
It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by
Respondent, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other
amounts due by Respondent under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree
or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by
Respondent of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set
forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19).
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

7

