UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78213 / June 30, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17325
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
CHRISTOPHER A.
NOVINGER,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Christopher A.
Novinger (“Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these
proceedings and the findings contained in Section III.2. below, which are admitted, Respondent
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions
(“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Respondent, age 39, is a resident of Mansfield, Texas. Respondent maintains a
license with the Texas Department of Insurance, but he has never been associated with a registered
broker-dealer or investment adviser. Respondent is a principal and managing member of NFS
Group, LLC d/b/a Novers Financial a/k/a Safe Retirement Experts (“Novers”), an entity he formed
and through which he offered and sold life settlement interests to prospective investors.
2.
On June 6, 2016, a final judgment was entered by consent against Respondent,
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 5(a), 5(c), and 17(a) of the Securities
Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Sections 10(b) and 15(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5
thereunder, in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Christopher A.
Novinger, Brady J. Speers, NFS Group, LLC d/b/a Novers Financial a/k/a Safe Retirement Experts,
ICAN Investment Group, LLC, and Speers Financial Group, LLC, Civil Action Number 4:15-CV358-O, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas, Fort Worth Division.
3.
The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Respondent
fraudulently offered and sold life settlement interests by knowingly (or with severe recklessness):
(1) misrepresenting the purported safety and security of the investment; (2) making false and
misleading representations to prospective investors about the purported business experience and
financial expertise of himself and Defendant Brady Speers; (3) touting the purported business and
financial expertise of himself and Speers, but failing to disclose to investors the sanctions imposed,
and adverse actions taken, against them by multiple regulatory agencies; (4) creating and using
phony, meaningless titles for himself and Speers that were not actual, recognized designations in
the financial industry – such as “licensed financial consultant,” “licensed financial strategist,” and
“licensed consultant” – to create a false air of legitimacy; and (5) providing investors with a net
worth calculator that improperly inflated investors’ assets by including anticipated social security,
pension, and other similar payments for 240 months (20 years) into the future and which gave the
false and misleading appearance that the investor had a large enough net worth to be considered
accredited. Based on these and other misrepresentations, Respondent, Speers, and Novers sold
more than $4.3 million of life settlement interests to 26 investors, receiving commissions totaling
$515,000 from their sales efforts. The complaint also alleged that Respondent acted as an
unregistered broker-dealer in offering and selling life settlement interests, which were unregistered
securities, to investors and prospective investors.

2

IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act,
that Respondent be, and hereby is:
barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal
securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized
statistical rating organization; and
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a
promoter, finder, consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a
broker, dealer or issuer for purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock,
or inducing or attempting to induce the purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

