UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 79065 / October 6, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17619
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
JEFFERY B. RISINGER,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Jeffery B. Risinger
(“Respondent” or “Risinger”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these
proceedings and the findings contained in paragraph III.2. below, which are admitted, Respondent
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions
(“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:

1.
Risinger structured and managed private farm loan investments. From October 2013
to May 27, 2015, Risinger was a registered representative with Pin Financial LLC, a broker-dealer
registered with the Commission. Risinger is a member of the Indiana State Bar. Risinger, age 60,
resides in Fishers, Indiana.
2.
On September 14, 2016, a final judgment was entered by consent against Risinger,
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933
(“Securities Act”), Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, in the civil
action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Veros Partners, Inc. et al., Civil Action
Number 1:15-CV-659, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Indiana.
3.
The Commission’s Amended Complaint alleged, among other things, that in 2013
and 2014 Risinger used money from certain private farm loan offerings to pay investors in other
separate offerings. Additionally, Risinger paid himself hundreds of thousands of dollars in
undisclosed fees.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Risinger’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act,
that Respondent Risinger be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer,
investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally
recognized statistical rating organization.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that seras
the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

2

