SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
(Release No. 34-76998; File No. 10-221)
In the Matter of the Application of ISE Mercury, LLC for Registration as a National Securities
Exchange
Findings, Opinion, and Order of the Commission
January 29, 2016
I.	

Introduction
On September 29, 2014, ISE Mercury, LLC (“ISE Mercury” or “Exchange”) submitted to

the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) an Application for Registration as a
National Securities Exchange (“Form 1 Application”)1 under Section 6 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Act”).2 On June 26, 2015, ISE Mercury submitted Amendment No. 1 to
its Form 1 Application.3 Notice of the Form 1 Application, as modified by Amendment No. 1,

1	

ISE Mercury, in conjunction with its submission of the Form 1 Application, requested an
exemption under Section 36(a)(1) of the Act from certain requirements of Rules 6a-1(a)
and 6a-2 of the Act. On September 9, 2015, the Commission issued an order granting
ISE Mercury exemptive relief, subject to certain conditions, in connection with the filing
of its Form 1 Application. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 75867 (September
9, 2015), 80 FR 55395 (September 15, 2015). Because the Form 1 Application was not
considered filed without the exemptive relief, the date of filing of such application is
September 9, 2015. Id.

2	

15 U.S.C. 78f.

3	

Amendment No. 1, among other things, includes changes to the Limited Liability
Company Agreement of ISE Mercury (“ISE Mercury LLC Agreement”) and the
Constitution of ISE Mercury (“ISE Mercury Constitution”) concerning board
composition and fair representation of the Exchange’s members, use of confidential
information for non-regulatory purposes, and the use of regulatory funds. Amendment
No. 1 also includes revisions to the proposed rules of ISE Mercury. Amendment No. 1
further provides additional descriptions in Exhibit E to the Form 1 Application regarding
ISE Mercury’s compliance with Regulation Systems Compliance and Integrity
(“Regulation SCI”).

was published for comment in the Federal Register on September 16, 2015.4 The Commission
received one comment letter regarding the Form 1 Application.5 ISE Mercury submitted a
response to comments on December 7, 2015.6 On January 8, 2016, ISE Mercury submitted
Amendment No. 2 to the Form 1 Application.7
II.	

Discussion
Under Sections 6(b) and 19(a) of the Act,8 the Commission shall by order grant an

application for registration as a national securities exchange if the Commission finds, among
other things, that the proposed exchange is so organized and has the capacity to carry out the
purposes of the Act and to comply, and to enforce compliance by its members and persons
associated with its members, with the provisions of the Act, the rules and regulations thereunder,
and the rules of the exchange.
As discussed in greater detail below, the Commission finds, after consideration of the
comment letter and the Exchange’s response thereto, that ISE Mercury’s application for
exchange registration meets the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder.

4	

See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 75884 (September 10, 2015), 80 FR 55691
(“Notice”).

5	

See Letter from Kurt Eckert, Principal, Wolverine Trading, LLC (“Wolverine”), to
Elizabeth M. Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated October 23, 2014 (“Wolverine
Letter”).

6	

See Letter from Michael Simon, General Counsel and Secretary, ISE Mercury, to Brent J.
Fields, Secretary, Commission, dated December 7, 2015 (“ISE Mercury Response
Letter”).

7	

Amendment No. 2, among other things, also includes revisions to the proposed rules of
ISE Mercury to reflect changes to comparable ISE rules since the filing of Amendment
No. 1. The changes proposed in Amendment No. 2 are not substantive, are consistent
with the existing rules of other registered national securities exchanges, and do not raise
any new or novel regulatory issues.

8	

15 U.S.C. 78f(b) and 15 U.S.C. 78s(a), respectively.

2


Further, the Commission finds that the proposed rules of ISE Mercury are consistent with
Section 6 of the Act in that, among other things, they assure a fair representation of the
Exchange’s members in the selection of its directors and administration of its affairs and provide
that one or more directors will be representative of issuers and investors and not be associated
with a member of the exchange, or with a broker or dealer;9 and that they are designed to prevent
fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, promote just and equitable principles of trade,
foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing, settling,
processing information with respect to, and facilitating transactions in securities, and remove
impediments to and perfect the mechanisms of a free and open market and a national market
system and, in general, protect investors and the public interest and are not designed to permit
unfair discrimination between customers, issuers, or broker-dealers.10 Finally, the Commission
finds that ISE Mercury’s proposed rules do not impose any burden on competition not necessary
or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act.11
A.

Overview of Ownership of ISE Mercury

ISE Mercury is structured as a Delaware limited liability company (“LLC”) and is a
wholly-owned subsidiary of International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc. (“ISE
Holdings”).12 ISE Holdings, in turn, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of U.S. Exchange Holdings,
Inc. (“U.S. Exchange Holdings”), which is wholly-owned by Eurex Frankfurt AG, a German

9

See 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(3).

10

See 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5).

11

See 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(8).

12

Following any Commission grant of registration to ISE Mercury, ISE Holdings will be
the sole holding company of three registered national securities exchanges: International
Securities Exchange LLC (“ISE”), ISE Gemini Exchange, LLC (“ISE Gemini”), and ISE
Mercury. See Exhibit C to the Form 1 Application, Section M.

3


stock corporation (“Eurex Frankfurt”), and Deutsche Börse AG (“Deutsche Börse,” and together
with U.S. Exchange Holdings and Eurex Frankfurt, the “Upstream Owners”).13
B.	

Governance of ISE Mercury
1.	

ISE Mercury Board of Directors

The board of directors of ISE Mercury (“ISE Mercury Board” or “Board”) will be its
governing body and will possess all of the powers necessary for the management of its business
and affairs, including governance of ISE Mercury as a self-regulatory organization (“SRO”).14
The ISE Mercury Board will be comprised of no fewer than eight, but no more than 16,
directors.15 Specifically, at least 50% of the ISE Mercury Board must be comprised of NonIndustry Directors,16 of which at least one of the Non-Industry Directors must be a Public

13	

Eurex Frankfurt holds an 85% interest in U.S. Exchange Holdings, and Deutsche Börse
holds the remaining 15%. In turn, Deutsche Börse holds a 100% interest in Eurex
Frankfurt. The current upstream ownership structure of ISE Mercury is the result of the
acquisition of ISE Holdings by Eurex Frankfurt in 2007 (the “Eurex Acquisition”)13 and a
corporate reorganizations in 2014.13 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 56955
(December 13, 2007), 72 FR 71979 (December 19, 2007) (File No. SR-ISE-2007-101)
(order approving a transaction in which ISE Holdings became a wholly-owned indirect
subsidiary of Eurex Frankfurt) (“Eurex Acquisition Order”); and Securities Exchange Act
Release Nos. 73530 (November 5, 2014), 79 FR 67224 (November 12, 2014) (SR-ISE­
2014-44); 73860 (December 17, 2014), 79 FR 77066 (December 23, 2014); 73531
(November 5, 2014), 79 FR 67215 (November 12, 2014) (SR-ISEGemini-2014-24); and
73861 (December 17, 2014), 79 FR 77064 (December 23, 2014).

14	

See ISE Mercury Constitution, Article III, Section 3.1.

15	

See ISE Mercury Constitution, Article III, Section 3.2(a).

16	

See ISE Mercury Constitution, Article III, Section 3.2(b)(ii). Under the ISE Mercury
Constitution, “Non-Industry Director” means a member of ISE Mercury Board that meets
the requirements of a non-industry representative and is elected by ISE Holdings. See id.
“The term ‘non-industry representative’ means any person that is not considered an
‘industry representative,’ as well as (i) a person affiliated with a broker or dealer that
operates solely to assist the securities-related activities of the business of non-member
affiliates, (ii) an employee of an entity that is affiliated with a broker or dealer that does
not account for a material portion of the revenues of the consolidated entity, and who is
primarily engaged in the business of the non-member entity.” ISE Mercury Constitution,

4


Director.17 Further, the ISE Mercury Board will include the President/Chief Executive Officer as
a director.18 Moreover, at least 30% of the ISE Mercury Board must be officers, directors or
partners of ISE Mercury members, and must be elected by a plurality of holders of Exchange
Rights19 (“Industry Directors”), of which at least: (i) one must be elected by a plurality of
holders of Primary Market Maker (“PMM”) Exchange Rights, (ii) one must be elected by a
plurality of holders of Competitive Market Maker (“CMM”) Exchange Rights, and (iii) one must
be elected by a plurality of holders of Electronic Access Member (“EAM”) Exchange Rights,
provided that the number of each type of Industry Director shall always be equal.20
As part of the process to elect members of the Board, the Nominating Committee will
nominate the proposed Industry Directors and the Corporate Governance Committee21 and ISE

Article VIII, Section 13.1(v). The term “industry representative” means a person who is
an officer, director or employee of a broker or dealer or who has been employed in any
such capacity at any time within the prior three (3) years, as well as a person who has a
consulting or employment relationship with or has provided professional services to the
Exchange and a person who had any such relationship or provided any such services to
the Exchange at any time within the prior three (3) years. See ISE Mercury Constitution,
Article VIII, Section 13.1(s).
17	

See ISE Mercury Constitution, Article III, Section 3.2(b)(ii). Under the ISE Mercury
Constitution, “Public Director” means a Non-Industry Director that is a non-industry
representative who has no material relationship with a broker or dealer or any affiliate of
a broker or dealer or the Exchange or any affiliate of the Exchange. See ISE Mercury
Constitution, Article VIII, Sections 13.1(aa) and (bb), and Article III, Section 3.2(b)(ii).

18	

See ISE Mercury Constitution, Article III, Section 3.2(b)(iii).

19	

See ISE Mercury Rule 300 Series. “Exchange Rights” means the PMM Rights, CMM
Rights and EAM Rights collectively. See ISE Mercury Rule 100(a)(17). PMM Rights,
CMM Rights and EAM Rights have the meaning set forth in Article VI of ISE Mercury
LLC Agreement. See ISE Mercury Rules 100(a)(12), 100(a)(15) and 100(a)(36).

20	

See ISE Mercury Constitution, Article III, Section 3.2(b)(i).

21	

See infra Section II.B.3. for a description of ISE Mercury’s Nominating Committee and
Corporate Governance Committee.

5


Holdings will nominate the proposed Non-Industry Directors.22 A petition process will allow
ISE Mercury members to nominate alternate candidates for consideration as Industry Directors.23
At the first annual meeting and at each annual meeting thereafter, ISE Holdings will elect all of
the members of the ISE Mercury Board (except the Industry Directors, which are elected by ISE
Mercury members24) but will be required to do so in compliance with the compositional
requirements for the Board outlined in the ISE Mercury Constitution.

22	

See, e.g., ISE Mercury Constitution, Article III, Section 3.10(a)-(b). ISE Holdings, as the
Sole LLC Member of ISE Mercury, is permitted to petition the Corporate Governance
Committee to propose alternate Non-Industry Directors and Public Directors. See ISE
Mercury Constitution, Article III, Section 3.10(b)(ii). See also infra note 63 for a
definition of “Sole LLC Member.”

23	

See, e.g., ISE Mercury Constitution, Article III, Section 3.10(a)(ii). Specifically, in
addition to the Industry Director nominees named by the Nominating Committee, persons
eligible to serve as such may be nominated for election to the ISE Mercury Board by a
petition, signed by the holders of not less than five percent (5%) of the outstanding
Exchange Rights of the series entitled to elect such person if there are more than eighty
(80) Exchange Rights in the series entitled to vote, ten percent (10%) of the outstanding
rights of such series entitled to elect such person if there are between eighty (80) and
forty (40) Exchange Rights in the series entitled to vote, and twenty-five percent (25%)
of the outstanding Exchange Rights of such series entitled to elect such person if there are
less than forty (40) Exchange Rights in the series entitled to vote. For purposes of
determining whether a person has been nominated for election by petition by the requisite
percentage, no ISE Mercury member, alone or together with its affiliates, may account
for more than 50% of the signatures of the holders of outstanding Exchange Rights of the
series entitled to elect such person, and any such signatures by such Exchange Members,
alone or together with its affiliates, in excess of such 50% limitation shall be disregarded.
Id. This process is identical to the process in place at ISE. See ISE Second and
Amended Constitution, Article III, Section 3.10(a)(ii).

24	

See ISE Mercury Constitution, Article III, Sections 3.2(b)(i) and (c).
The Commission notes that pursuant to Section 6.3(b) of the ISE Mercury LLC
Agreement, a holder of Exchange Rights, together with any affiliate, as such term is
defined in the ISE Mercury Constitution, may not exercise the voting rights associated
with more than twenty percent (20%) of the outstanding Exchange Rights. Any exercise
of voting rights in excess of twenty percent (20%) of the outstanding Exchange Rights by
a holder of Exchange Rights, together with any affiliate, shall be deemed null and void.
See Exhibit J.2 to the Form 1 Application.

6


The Commission believes that the requirements in the ISE Mercury Constitution – that at
least 30% of the directors be Industry Directors and the means by which they will be chosen by
ISE Mercury members25 – are consistent with Section 6(b)(3) of the Act because they provide for
the fair representation of members in the selection of directors and the administration of ISE
Mercury.26 Section 6(b)(3) of the Act requires that “the rules of the exchange assure a fair
representation of its members in the selection of its directors and administration of its affairs and
provide that one or more directors shall be representative of issuers and investors and not be
associated with a member of the exchange, broker, or dealer.” As the Commission previously
has noted, this statutory requirement helps to ensure that members have a voice in the
Exchange’s use of self-regulatory authority and that the Exchange is administered in a way that
is equitable to all those persons who trade on its market or through its facilities.27 In addition,
the Commission believes that the requirements that at least 50% of the Board be composed of
Non-Industry Directors and that at least one director be a Public Director satisfy the requirements
of Section 6(b)(3) of the Act.28

25	

Id. See also ISE Mercury Constitution, Article III, Section 3.10(a)(ii).

26	

15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(3).

27	

See, e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 70050 (July 26, 2013), 78 FR 46622
(August 1, 2013) (File No. 10-209) (order granting the exchange registration of ISE
Gemini) (“ISE Gemini Order”); 53128 (January 13, 2006), 71 FR 3550 (January 23,
2006) (File No. 10-131) (order granting the exchange registration of Nasdaq Stock
Market, Inc.) (“Nasdaq Order”); and 58375 (August 18, 2008), 73 FR 49498 (August 21,
2008) (File No. 10-182) (order granting the exchange registration of BATS Exchange,
Inc.) (“BATS Order”).

28	

15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(3). See also ISE Gemini Order, supra note 27; Securities Exchange Act
Release No. 68341, p.8, (December 3, 2012), 77 FR 73065, 73067 (December 7, 2012)
(File No. 10-207) (order granting the registration of Miami International Securities
Exchange, LLC) (“MIAX Order”); and Regulation of Exchanges and Alternative Trading
Systems, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 40760 (December 8, 1998), 63 FR 70844
(December 22, 1998) (“Regulation ATS Release”).

7


2.

Interim Board

After ISE Mercury is granted registration by the Commission, but prior to commencing
operations, ISE Holdings, as the sole shareholder of ISE Mercury,29 will appoint an interim
board of directors for ISE Mercury that will serve only until the first annual meeting (“Interim
ISE Mercury Board”). The Interim ISE Mercury Board will be comprised of the same
individuals as those then-serving ISE board and ISE Gemini board and will consist of 15
directors: the President/Chief Executive Officer Director;30 six Industry Directors; and eight
Non-Industry Directors.31 ISE Mercury anticipates that there will be a significant overlap
between its membership and the membership of ISE and ISE Gemini.32 ISE Mercury also “does
not expect to receive a meaningful number of applications for membership from non-ISE and
ISE Gemini members during the tenure of the Interim ISE Mercury Board.”33 Thus, the six
interim Industry Directors to be appointed to the ISE Mercury Board likely will have been
elected by ISE Mercury members in their capacity as ISE and ISE Gemini members.34
These interim Industry Directors will serve until the first initial ISE Mercury Board is
elected pursuant to the full nomination, petition, and voting process set forth in the ISE Mercury

29

See infra Section II.C.1. for a discussion of the ownership of ISE Mercury. 


30

See Exhibit J to the Form 1 Application. 


31

See Exhibit J to the Form 1 Application. 


32

See Exhibit L to the Form 1 Application. Based on discussions with ISE members, ISE 

Mercury represented that it currently expects that ISE Mercury’s membership will consist
substantially of current ISE and ISE Gemini members, including, but not limited to, those
ISE and ISE Gemini members that have representatives serving as industry directors on
the ISE Board. See Exhibit J to ISE Mercury Form 1 Application.

33

Exhibit J to the Form 1 Application.

34

See id.

8


Constitution as described above.35 ISE Mercury will complete such process as promptly as
possible and within 90 days after its application for registration as a national securities exchange
is granted by the Commission.36
The Commission believes that the process for electing the Interim ISE Mercury Board, as
proposed, is consistent with the requirements of the Act, including that the rules of the exchange
assure fair representation of the exchange’s members in the selection of its directors and
administration of its affairs.37 The Commission believes that the Interim ISE Mercury Board
process is designed to provide member representation sufficient to allow ISE Mercury to
commence operations for an interim period prior to going through the process to elect a new
Board pursuant to the full nomination, petition, and voting process set forth in the ISE Mercury
Constitution.
The Interim ISE Mercury Board will be filled by current ISE and ISE Gemini Board
members (which currently include Industry Directors who were elected by current ISE and ISE
Gemini members) until the first annual meeting of ISE Mercury.38 As noted above, ISE Mercury
anticipates that there will be significant overlap between the initial members of ISE Mercury and

35	

See ISE Mercury Constitution, Article III, Sections 3.2(c) and 3.10; see also Exhibit J to
the Form 1 Application.

36	

See Exhibit J to the Form 1 Application.

37	

See 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(3). ISE Mercury’s proposed timeline for the Interim ISE Mercury
Board process comports with the interim board process approved by the Commission for
ISE Gemini, the Boston Options Exchange (“BOX”) and Miami International Securities
Exchange, LLC (“MIAX”). See ISE Gemini Order, supra note at 27; Securities
Exchange Act Release No. 66871 (April 27, 2012), 77 FR 26323 (May 3, 2012) (File No.
10-206) (“BOX Order”); and the MIAX Order, supra note 28.

38	

See Exhibit J to the Form 1 Application.

9


the current members of ISE and ISE Gemini.39 Moreover, ISE Mercury will complete the full
nomination, petition, and voting process, as set forth in the ISE Mercury Constitution,40 as
promptly as possible and within 90 days of when ISE Mercury’s application for registration as a
national securities exchange is granted.41 As a part of the full nomination, petition, and voting
process, members of ISE Mercury will be able to petition for alternate candidates to be
considered for Industry Director positions.42 This process will provide persons who are
approved as members of ISE Mercury after the effective date of this order with the opportunity
to participate in the selection of the Industry Directors.
3.	

Exchange Committees

ISE Mercury will have a number of Board committees,43 including an Executive
Committee (consisting of six directors, and with the number of Non-Industry Directors equaling
or exceeding the number of Industry Directors),44 a Finance and Audit Committee (consisting of
between three and five directors, all of whom must be Non-Industry Directors),45 a
Compensation Committee (consisting of between three and five directors, all of whom must be

39

ISE Mercury will have a streamlined waive-in process for existing ISE and ISE Gemini
members to apply for membership on ISE Mercury. See ISE Mercury Rule 302(a).

40

See, e.g., ISE Mercury Constitution, Article III, Section 3.10(a)-(b).

41

See ISE Mercury Constitution, Article III, Sections 3.2(c) and 3.10.

42

See ISE Mercury Constitution, Article III, Section 3.10(a)(ii).

43

See ISE Mercury Constitution, Article V, Section 5.1(a).

44	

See ISE Mercury Constitution, Article V, Section 5.2. The Executive Committee will
have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board, except that the
Executive Committee will not have the powers of the Board with respect to approving:
(i) any merger, consolidation, sale of substantially all of the assets or dissolution of the
Exchange; or (ii) any matters pertaining to the self-regulatory function of the Exchange
or relating to the structure of the market which the Exchange regulates. See id.

45	

See ISE Mercury Constitution, Article V, Section 5.5.

10 


Non-Industry Directors),46 a Corporate Governance Committee (consisting of at least three
directors, all of whom must be Non-Industry Directors),47 and such other additional committees
as may be approved by the ISE Mercury Board.48
ISE Mercury also will have a Nominating Committee, which will be a committee of ISE
Mercury and not a committee of the Board.49 The Nominating Committee will be composed of
three Exchange Member Representatives50 and will be responsible for nominating candidates for
Industry Director positions.51 As noted above, there will be a petition process by which
members of ISE Mercury can nominate their own nominees for the Industry Director positions.52
These nomination processes are consistent with processes that the Commission has approved for
other national securities exchanges.53

46	

See ISE Mercury Constitution, Article V, Section 5.6.

47	

See ISE Mercury Constitution, Article V, Section 5.4.

48	

See ISE Mercury Constitution, Article V, Section 5.1(a).

49	

See ISE Mercury Constitution, Article V, Section 5.3.

50	

See id. Article XIII, Section 13.1(n) of the ISE Mercury Constitution defines “Exchange
Member Representative” as an associated person of an Exchange Member, and Section
13.1(m) defines “Exchange Member” as an organization that has been approved to
exercise trading rights associated with Exchange Rights.

51	

See ISE Mercury Constitution, Article V, Section 5.3. The Interim ISE Mercury Board
shall appoint the initial members of the Nominating Committee in accordance with the
qualifications prescribed in Section 5.3 of the ISE Mercury Constitution.

52	

See ISE Mercury Constitution, Article III, Section 3.10(a)(ii). See also supra note 23 and
accompanying text.

53	

See, e.g., ISE Second Amended and Restated Constitution, Articles III and V, Sections
3.10 and 5.3; ISE Gemini Constitution, Articles III and V, Sections 3.10 and 5.3; and
MIAX Amended and Restated By-laws, Articles II and V, Sections 2.4 and 5.3.

11 


The Commission believes that ISE Mercury’s proposed committees, which are similar to
committees maintained by other national securities exchanges,54 are designed to help enable ISE
Mercury to carry out its responsibilities under the Act and are consistent with the Act, including
Section 6(b)(1), which requires, in part, an exchange to be so organized and have the capacity to
carry out the purposes of the Act.55
C.	

Regulation of ISE Mercury

When ISE Mercury commences operations as a national securities exchange, it will have
all the attendant regulatory obligations under the Act. In particular, ISE Mercury will be
responsible for the operation and regulation of its trading system and the regulation of its
members. Certain provisions in the ISE Mercury’s and ISE Holdings’ governance documents
are designed to facilitate the ability of ISE Mercury and the Commission to fulfill their
regulatory and oversight obligations under the Act. The discussion below summarizes some of
these key provisions.
1.

Ownership Structure: Ownership and Voting Limitations

As noted above in Section II.A, ISE Mercury is a Delaware LLC and a wholly-owned
subsidiary of ISE Holdings.56 ISE Holdings is owned by Eurex Frankfurt and Deutsche Börse
through an intermediary holding company, U.S. Exchange Holdings. ISE Holdings’ governing

54	

See, e.g., ISE Gemini Order, supra note 27, MIAX Order, supra note 28, and BOX Order,
supra note 37.

55	

15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(1).

56	

The ISE Mercury LLC Agreement provides that ISE Holdings may not assign its interest
in ISE Mercury unless such assignment is subject to prior approval by the Commission
pursuant to the rule filing procedure under Section 19 of the Act. See ISE Mercury LLC
Agreement, Section 7.1 (Assignments; Additional LLC Members).

12 


documents impose limits on any direct or indirect change in control of ISE Holdings, which are
to be enforced through the creation of a statutory trust.57
Specifically, ISE Holdings’ governing documents prohibit any ISE Mercury member
(alone or together with its Related Persons58) from owning more than 20% of any class of Voting
Shares of ISE Holdings.59 Moreover, pursuant to ISE Holdings’ governing documents, no
person (alone or together with its Related Persons) may own more than 40% of any class of
Voting Shares of ISE Holdings.60 Finally, no person (alone or together with its Related Persons)
may vote or cause the voting of shares representing more than 20% of the voting power of the
then outstanding Voting Shares of ISE Holdings.61 As described more fully below, if a person
exceeds an ISE Holdings’ ownership or voting limit, a majority of the capital stock of ISE
Holdings that has the right by its terms to vote in the election of the ISE Holdings Board or on

57	

See Article FOURTH, Section III.(c) of the Second Amended and Restated Certificate of
Incorporation of International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc. (“ISE Holdings
Certificate”). See infra notes 67-69 and 101-105 and accompanying text for a discussion
of the statutory trust.

58	

See ISE Holdings Certificate, Article FOURTH, Section III for the definition of “Related
Persons.”

59	

See ISE Holdings Certificate, Article FOURTH, Section III.(a)(i) for the definition of
“Voting Shares.” The ISE Holdings Certificate defines “Voting Shares” as shares of the
capital stock (whether Common Stock or Preferred Stock) of the ISE Holdings that have
the right by their terms to vote in the election of members of the ISE Holdings board of
directors (“ISE Holdings Board”) or on other matters which may require the approval of
the holders of voting shares of the ISE Holdings (other than matters affecting the rights,
preferences or privileges of a particular class of capital stock).

60	

See ISE Holdings Certificate, Article FOURTH, Section III.(a)(i).

61	

See ISE Holdings Certificate, Article FOURTH, Section III.(b). See also Second
Amended and Restated Bylaws of ISE Holdings (“ISE Holdings Bylaws”), Article XI,
Section 11.1(b).

13 


other matters (other than matters affecting the rights, preferences or privileges of the capital
stock) automatically will be transferred to a Delaware statutory trust (“ISE Trust”).62
The ISE Mercury LLC Agreement and ISE Mercury Constitution do not include change
of control provisions that are similar to those in the ISE Holdings Certificate and ISE Holdings

62

See ISE Holdings Certificate, Article FOURTH, Section III.(c). See also infra notes 67­
70 and accompanying text for a discussion of the ISE Trust.
Consistent with the governance structure of other exchanges, however, ISE Holdings
Board may waive the 40% ownership limitation and the 20% voting restriction for
persons other than ISE Mercury members, subject to certain specified conditions, but
such waiver will not be effective unless approved by the Commission. Specifically, The
ISE Holdings Certificate allows the ISE Holdings Board to waive the ISE Holdings
ownership and voting limits pursuant to an amendment to the ISE Holdings Bylaws,
provided that the ISE Holdings Board makes certain determinations. See ISE Holdings
Certificate, Article FOURTH, Sections III.(a)(i)(A), III.(a)(i)(B) and III.(b)(i).
Article XI of the ISE Holdings Bylaws waives the ISE Holdings ownership and voting
limits to allow the Upstream Owners to own and vote all of the common stock of ISE
Holdings. Article XI, Section 11.1(b) states that, in waiving the ISE Holdings ownership
and voting limits to permit the Upstream Owners to own and vote the capital stock of ISE
Holdings, the ISE Holdings Board has determined, with respect to each Upstream Owner,
that: (i) such waiver will not impair the ability of ISE Holdings and each “Controlled
National Securities Exchange” (i.e., any national securities exchange or facility thereof
controlled, directly or indirectly, by ISE Holdings, including ISE, ISE Gemini, and as a
result of this order, ISE Mercury) to carry out their respective functions and
responsibilities under the Act; (ii) such waiver is in the best interests of ISE Holdings, its
stockholders, and each Controlled National Securities Exchange; (iii) such waiver will
not impair the ability of the Commission to enforce the Act; (iv) neither the Upstream
Owner nor any of its related persons is subject to a statutory disqualification (within the
meaning of Section 3(a)(39) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(39)); and (v) neither the
Upstream Owner nor any of its related persons is a member of such Controlled National
Securities Exchange. Article XI of the ISE Holdings Bylaws was adopted in connection
with the Eurex Acquisition, when ISE was the sole national securities exchange
controlled by ISE Holdings. See Eurex Acquisition Order, supra note 13. Article XI,
Section 11.1(b) was subsequently amended to apply to any Controlled National Securities
Exchange, which by its terms will include ISE Mercury. See Securities Exchange Act
Release No. 59135 (December 22, 2008), 73 FR 79954 (December 30, 2008) (order
approving proposed rule change relating to the purchase by ISE Holdings of an
ownership interest in Direct Edge Holdings, Inc.) and 61498 (February 4, 2010), 75 FR
7299 (February 18, 2010) (order approving proposed rule change relating to changes to
the U.S. Exchange Holdings corporate documents and ISE Trust).

14 


Bylaws. However, the ISE Mercury LLC Agreement and the ISE Mercury Constitution
explicitly provide that ISE Holdings is the Sole LLC Member of ISE Mercury.63 Under the ISE
Mercury LLC Agreement, ISE Holdings is permitted to “assign all (but not less than all)” of its
interest in ISE Mercury, but the assignment of all of ISE Holdings’ interest in ISE Mercury will
be subject to prior approval by the Commission pursuant to the rule filing procedures under
Section 19 of the Act.64
To facilitate compliance with the ISE Holdings ownership and voting limits, the
Upstream Owners have committed to take reasonable steps necessary to cause ISE Holdings to
be in compliance with the ISE Holdings ownership and voting limits. These commitments are
contained in the governing documents for U.S. Exchange Holdings65 and in corporate resolutions
for Eurex Frankfurt and Deutsche Börse.66

63	

See ISE Mercury LLC Agreement, Article II, Section 2.1 and ISE Mercury Constitution
Article I, Section 1.1 (both of which define “Sole LLC Member” to mean ISE Holdings,
as the sole member of ISE Mercury).

64	

See 15 U.S.C. 78s; see also ISE Mercury LLC Agreement, Article VII, Section 7.1 and
ISE Mercury Constitution, Article I, Section 1.1.

65	

The Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of U.S. Exchange
Holdings (“U.S. Exchange Holdings Certificate”) provides that, for so long as U.S.
Exchange Holdings directly or indirectly controls a Controlled National Securities
Exchange, U.S. Exchange Holdings will take reasonable steps necessary to cause ISE
Holdings to be in compliance with the ISE Holdings’ ownership and voting limits. See
U.S. Exchange Holdings Certificate, Article THIRTEENTH.

66	

See, e.g., Form of German Parent Corporate Resolutions (2007 Resolution Section (4)),
Exhibit B to the Form 1 Application. In the Form 1 Application, ISE Mercury included
these supplemental resolutions that Eurex Frankfurt and Deutsche Börse have each
adopted that, in part, incorporate provisions regarding the ownership and voting limits
(“ISE Mercury Resolutions”) in the same manner and to the same extent as prior
corporate resolutions signed by Eurex Frankfurt and Deutsche Börse apply to ISE and
ISE Gemini (“2007 Resolutions”). The ISE Mercury Resolutions were signed by Eurex
Frankfurt and Deutsche Börse, and extend to ISE Mercury the commitments made in the
2007 Resolutions with respect to ISE and ISE Gemini. For example, ISE Mercury
represented in Exhibit B of Amendment No. 2 to the Form 1 Application that the

15 


In connection with the Eurex Acquisition, ISE implemented the ISE Trust pursuant to a
Trust Agreement (“2007 Trust Agreement”) among ISE Holdings, U.S. Exchange Holdings,
trustees (“Trustees”), and a Delaware trustee, which agreement has been subsequently amended
to take into account subsequent acquisitions, including the current transaction.67 The ISE Trust
Agreement serves, in part, to effectuate the ownership and voting limits for ISE Holdings in the
event that a person obtains an ownership or voting interest in excess of the limits established in
the ISE Holdings Certificate without prior Commission approval. To accomplish that purpose,
for as long as ISE Holdings controls, directly or indirectly, a national securities exchange,
including ISE Mercury, the ISE Trust would accept, hold and dispose of Trust Shares68 on the

Deutsche Börse AG Executive Board adopted its corporate resolution on February 17,
2015 and the Eurex Frankfurt Executive Board adopted its corporate resolutions on
February 13, 2015.
67	

See Third Amended and Restated Trust Agreement, dated as of December 22, 2014, by
and among ISE Holdings, U.S. Exchange Holdings, and the Trustees (“ISE Trust
Agreement”). The term of the ISE Trust is perpetual, provided that ISE Holdings directly
or indirectly controls a national securities exchange or a facility thereof, which would
include ISE Mercury. See ISE Trust Agreement, Article III, Section 2.6(a). See also
Eurex Acquisition Order, supra note 13, at Section II.C., for a more detailed description
of the ISE Trust. By its terms, the 2007 Trust Agreement related solely to ISE Holdings’
ownership of ISE, and not to any other national securities exchange that ISE Holdings
might control, directly or indirectly. In 2010, the Commission approved proposed rule
changes that revised the 2007 Trust Agreement to replace references to ISE with
references to any Controlled National Securities Exchange. See Securities Exchange Act
Release Nos. 59135 (December 22, 2008), 73 FR 79954 (December 30, 2008) (“ISE
Holdings Order”) and 61498 (February 4, 2010), 75 FR 7299 (February 18, 2010) (“U.S.
Exchange Holdings Order”); see also ISE Trust Agreement, Articles I and II, Sections 1.1
and 2.6. Thus, the ISE Trust Agreement also applies to ISE Gemini and will apply to ISE
Mercury, upon the Commission granting ISE Mercury registration as a national securities
exchange.

68	

Under the ISE Trust Agreement, the term “Trust Shares” means either Excess Shares or
Deposited Shares, or both, as the case may be. The term “Excess Shares” means that a
person obtained an ownership or voting interest in ISE Holdings in excess of the
ownership and voting limits pursuant to Article FOURTH of the ISE Holdings
Certificate, for example, through ownership of one of the Upstream Owners, without
obtaining the approval of the Commission. The term “Deposited Shares” means shares

16 


terms and subject to the conditions set forth therein.69 Specifically, if any person’s ownership
percentage exceeds the ownership limits or any person’s voting control percentage exceeds the
voting limits without Commission approval, the Excess Shares will be transferred automatically
to the ISE Trust pursuant to the terms prescribed in the ISE Holdings Certificate.70 The ISE
Trust then would accept the Excess Shares and hold them for the benefit of the trust beneficiary,
U.S. Exchange Holdings, who has the right to reacquire the Excess Shares either when a person
no longer exceeds the ownership or voting limits or when such excess ownership percentage or
voting control percentage is approved by the Commission in accordance with ISE Holdings
Certificate.71
Although ISE Holdings is not independently responsible for regulation of ISE Mercury,
its activities with respect to the operation of ISE Mercury must be consistent with, and must not
interfere with, the self-regulatory obligations of ISE Mercury.72 As described above, the

that are transferred to the ISE Trust pursuant to the ISE Trust’s exercise of the Call
Option. Under the ISE Trust Agreement, the term “Call Option” means the option
granted by the ISE Trust beneficiary to the ISE Trust to call the Voting Shares as set forth
in Section 4.2 therein. See infra Section II.C.2.b for further discussion of the Call
Option.
69	

See ISE Trust Agreement, Article IV, Section 4.1; see also ISE Holdings Certificate,
Article FOURTH, Section III.(c); Eurex Acquisition Order, supra note 13, at 72 FR
71982 n.37 and accompanying text.

70	

See id.

71	

See ISE Trust Agreement, Article IV, Section 4.1(f). In addition, as discussed in Section
II.C.2.b below, the Trust also may accept, hold and dispose of Trust Shares in connection
with the Call Option. Section 4.2(h) of the ISE Trust Agreement governs when the
Trustees can transfer Deposited Shares in connection with the Call Option. Section
4.3(a) of the ISE Trust Agreement further permits the Trustees, upon receipt of written
instructions from the Trust Beneficiary, to sell Trust Shares to a person or persons whose
ownership percentage or voting control percentage will not violate the ownership or
voting limits.

72	

See also infra Section II.C.2. (Regulatory Independence and Oversight).

17 


provisions applicable to direct and indirect changes in control of ISE Holdings and ISE
Mercury, as well as the voting limitation, are designed to help prevent any owner of ISE
Holdings from exercising undue influence or control over the operation of ISE Mercury and to
help ensure that ISE Mercury is able to effectively carry out its regulatory obligations under the
Act. In addition, these limitations are designed to address the conflicts of interests that might
result from a member of a national securities exchange owning interests in the Exchange. As
the Commission has noted in the past, however, a member’s interest in an exchange, including
an entity that controls an exchange, could become so large as to cast doubts on whether the
exchange may fairly and objectively exercise its self-regulatory responsibilities with respect to
such member.73 A member that is a controlling shareholder of an exchange could seek to
exercise that controlling influence by directing the exchange to refrain from, or the exchange
may hesitate to, diligently monitor and conduct surveillance of the member’s conduct or
diligently enforce the exchange’s rules and the federal securities laws with respect to conduct by
the member that violates such provisions. As such, these requirements are designed to
minimize the potential that a person or entity can improperly interfere with or restrict the ability
of ISE Mercury to effectively carry out its regulatory oversight responsibilities under the Act.
The Commission believes that ISE Mercury’s and ISE Holdings’ proposed ownership
and voting limitation provisions, together with the provisions in U.S. Exchange Holdings’
governing documents, the ISE Mercury Resolutions, and the ISE Trust Agreement described
above,74 are consistent with the Act, including Section 6(b)(1), which requires, in part, an

73	

See, e.g., ISE Gemini Order, supra note 27; and BATS Order, supra note 27; see also
MIAX Order, supra note 28.

74	

See supra notes 65-66, and accompanying text.

18 


exchange to be so organized and have the capacity to carry out the purposes of the Act.75 In
particular, these requirements are designed to minimize the potential that a person could
improperly interfere with or restrict the ability of the Commission or ISE Mercury to effectively
carry out their regulatory oversight responsibilities under the Act.76
2.	

Regulatory Independence and Oversight
a.	

ISE Holdings

Although ISE Holdings itself will not itself carry out regulatory functions, its activities
with respect to the operation of ISE Mercury must be consistent with, and not interfere with, the
self-regulatory obligations of ISE Mercury.77 In this regard, ISE Mercury and ISE Holdings’
respective corporate documents include certain provisions that are designed to maintain the
independence of ISE Mercury’s self-regulatory function. These provisions are substantially
similar to those included in the governing documents of the exchanges that have most recently
been granted registration.78 Specifically:
	 The directors, officers, and employees of ISE Holdings must give due regard to the
preservation of the independence of the self-regulatory function of ISE Mercury and
must not take actions that would interfere with the effectuation of decisions by the
ISE Mercury Board relating to ISE Mercury’s regulatory functions (including
75	

15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(1).

76	

In addition, the ISE Trust Agreement is consistent with the provisions that other entities
that directly or indirectly own or control an SRO have instituted and that have been
approved by the Commission. See, e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release No. 55293
(February 14, 2007), 72 FR 8033 (February 22, 2007) (File No. SR-NYSE-2006-120)
(order relating to the combination between NYSE Group, Inc. and Euronext N.V.). See
also Eurex Acquisition Order, supra note 13, at 72 FR 71986 n.111.

77	

See, e.g., ISE Gemini Order, supra note 27; and BOX Order, supra note 37.

78	

See, e.g., ISE Gemini Order, supra note 27; BOX Order, supra note 37; MIAX Order,
supra note 28.

19 


disciplinary matters) or that would adversely affect the ability of ISE Mercury to
carry out its responsibilities under the Act.79


ISE Holdings must comply with federal securities laws and the rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder, and must cooperate with ISE Mercury and the Commission
pursuant to, and to the extent of, their respective regulatory authority. In addition,
ISE Holdings’ officers, directors, and employees must comply with federal securities
laws and the rules and regulations thereunder and agree to cooperate with ISE
Mercury and the Commission pursuant to their respective regulatory authority.80



ISE Holdings, and its officers, directors, employees, and agents are deemed to
irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the U.S. federal courts, the Commission, and
ISE Mercury, for purposes of any suit, action, or proceeding pursuant to U.S. federal
securities laws, and the rules and regulations thereunder, arising out of, or relating to,
ISE Mercury’s activities.81

79	

See ISE Holdings Bylaws, Article I, Section 1.5. Similarly, Article V, Section 5.1(b) of
the ISE Mercury LLC Agreement requires each ISE Mercury Board director to take into
consideration the effect that his or her actions would have on the ability of ISE Mercury
to carry out its responsibilities under the Act and on the ability of ISE Mercury to engage
in conduct that fosters and does not interfere with ISE Mercury’s ability to prevent
fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices; to promote just and equitable principles
of trade; to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating,
clearing, settling, processing information with respect to and facilitating transactions in
securities or assist in the removal of impediments to or perfection of the mechanisms for
a free and open market and a national market system; and in general to protect investors
and the public interest.

80	

See ISE Holdings Certificate, Article TENTH. ISE Holdings also shall take reasonable
steps necessary to cause its agents to cooperate with ISE Mercury and the Commission
pursuant to their respective regulatory authority. ISE Holdings Certificate, Article
THIRTEENTH.

81	

See ISE Holdings Bylaws, Article I, Section 1.4.

20 




All books and records of ISE Mercury containing confidential information pertaining
to the self-regulatory function of ISE Mercury (including but not limited to
confidential information regarding disciplinary matters, trading data, trading practices
and audit information) will be subject to confidentiality restrictions.82



The books and records of ISE Mercury and ISE Holdings must be maintained in the
United States83 and, to the extent they are related to the operation or administration of
ISE Mercury, ISE Holdings books and records will be subject at all times to
inspection and copying by the Commission.84



Furthermore, to the extent that they are related to the activities of ISE Mercury, the
books, records, premises, officers, directors, and employees of ISE Holdings will be
deemed to be the books, records, premises, officers, directors, and employees of ISE
Mercury, for purposes of, and subject to oversight pursuant to, the Act.85

82	

See ISE Holdings Certificate, Article ELEVENTH. Additionally, pursuant to the ISE
Mercury LLC Agreement, books and records of ISE Mercury containing confidential
information pertaining to the self-regulatory function of ISE Mercury (including but not
limited to confidential information regarding disciplinary matters, trading data, trading
practices and audit information) shall be retained in confidence by ISE Mercury and its
officers, directors, employees and agents and will not be used by ISE Mercury for any
non-regulatory purpose and shall not be made available to persons other than those
officers, directors, employees and agents that have a reasonable need to know the
contents thereof. See ISE Mercury LLC Agreement, Article VI, Section 4.1(b). The
requirement to keep such information confidential shall not limit or impede the
Commission’s ability to access and examine such information or limit or impede the
ability of officers, directors, employees, or agents of ISE Holdings to disclose such
information to the Commission. See ISE Holdings Certificate, Article ELEVENTH and
ISE Mercury LLC Agreement, Article VI, Section 4.1(b).

83	

See ISE Mercury LLC Agreement, Article IV, Section 4.1 and ISE Holdings Bylaws,
Article I, Section 1.3.

84	

See ISE Holdings Certificate, Article TWELFTH.

85	

See id.

21 


	 ISE Holdings will take necessary steps to cause its officers, directors, and employees,
prior to accepting a position as an officer, director, or employee (as applicable) to
consent in writing to the applicability of provisions regarding books and records,
confidentiality, jurisdiction, and regulatory obligations, with respect to their activities
related to ISE Mercury.86
	 ISE Holdings Certificate and ISE Holdings Bylaws require that, so long as ISE
Holdings controls ISE Mercury, any changes to those documents be submitted to the
ISE Mercury Board, and, if required, to be filed with, and as applicable approved by,
the Commission pursuant to Section 19 of the Act and the rules thereunder before
they may be effective.87
b.	

Upstream Owners

Although the Upstream Owners will not carry out any regulatory functions, the activities
of each of the Upstream Owners with respect to the operation of ISE Mercury must be consistent
with, and not interfere with, the self-regulatory obligations of ISE Mercury. The 2007
Resolutions, as supplemented by the supplemental Resolutions for ISE Mercury, the U.S.
Exchange Holdings Certificate, and the U.S. Exchange Holdings Bylaws include certain
provisions that are designed to maintain the independence of the self-regulatory function of ISE
Mercury, enable ISE Mercury to operate in a manner that complies with the U.S. federal
securities laws, including the objectives and requirements of Sections 6(b) and 19(g) of the Act,88

86	

See ISE Holdings Bylaws, Article I, Section 1.6.

87	

See ISE Holdings Certificate, Article FOURTEENTH; and ISE Holdings Bylaws, Article
X; see also supra notes 63-64 and accompanying text discussing a similar provision for
ISE Mercury.

88	

15 U.S.C. 78f(b) and 15 U.S.C. 78s(g).

22 


and facilitate the ability of ISE Mercury and the Commission to fulfill their regulatory and
oversight obligations under the Act. Specifically:


Each Upstream Owner and each board member, officer, and employee of the
Upstream Owners will comply with the U.S. federal securities laws and the rules and
regulations thereunder and cooperate with the Commission and ISE Mercury.89

	 In discharging his or her responsibilities as a board member of an Upstream Owner,
each such member must take into consideration the effect that the actions of the
Upstream Owner will have on the ability of ISE Mercury to carry out its
responsibilities under the Act.90
	 The Upstream Owners, and their board members, officers, and employees, must give
due regard to the preservation of the independence of the self-regulatory function of
ISE Mercury.91
	 The Upstream Owners, and their respective board members, officers, and employees
agree to keep confidential information pertaining to the self-regulatory function of
ISE Mercury, including, but not limited to, confidential information regarding
89	

See, e.g., Form of German Parent Corporate Resolutions (2007 Resolution Sections (1),
(7)(a) and (8)(a) and ISE Mercury Resolution Sections (2)(a), (2)(b) and (2)(c)); and U.S.
Exchange Holdings Certificate, Articles TENTH and ELEVENTH. The Resolutions also
provide that Eurex Frankfurt and Deutsche Börse will each take reasonable steps
necessary to cause each person who subsequently becomes a board member of Eurex
Frankfurt or Deutsche Börse to agree in writing to certain matters included in the
Resolutions. See, e.g., Form of German Parent Corporate Resolutions (2007 Resolution
Section (7) and ISE Mercury Resolution Section (2)(b)).

90	

See, e.g., Form of German Parent Corporate Resolutions (2007 Resolution Section (7)(f)
and ISE Mercury Resolution Section (2)(b)); and U.S. Exchange Holdings Certificate,
Article TENTH.

91	

See, e.g., Form of German Parent Corporate Resolutions (2007 Resolution Sections (5),
(7)(d), and (8)(d) and ISE Mercury Resolution Section (2)); and U.S. Exchange Holdings
Certificate, Article TWELFTH.

23 


disciplinary matters, trading data, trading practices, and audit information, contained
in the books and records of ISE Mercury and not use such information for any nonregulatory purposes.92
	 The books and records of the Upstream Owners related to the activities of ISE
Mercury must at all times be made available for, and the books and records of U.S.
Exchange Holdings must be subject at all times to, inspection and copying by the
Commission and ISE Mercury.93
	 The books, records, officers, directors, and employees of each of the Upstream
Owners will be deemed to be the books, records, officers, directors, and employees of
ISE Mercury, to the extent that such books and records are related to, or such officers,
directors (or equivalent in the case of Eurex Frankfurt and Deutsche Börse) and
employees are involved in, the activities of ISE Mercury,94 and the premises of U.S.

Exchange Holdings will be deemed to be the premises of ISE Mercury.95

92	

See, e.g., Form of German Parent Corporate Resolutions (2007 Resolution Sections (6),
(7)(e) and (8)(e) and ISE Mercury Resolution Sections (1) and (2)); and U.S. Exchange
Holdings Certificate, Article FOURTEENTH.

93	

See, e.g., Form of German Parent Corporate Resolutions (2007 Resolution Section (3)
and ISE Mercury Resolution Section (2)(a)); and U.S. Exchange Holdings Certificate,
Article FIFTEENTH. Additionally, the books and records of U.S. Exchange Holdings
related to the activities of ISE Mercury will be maintained within the United States. See
U.S. Exchange Holdings Certificate, Article FIFTEENTH.

94	

See, e.g., Form of German Parent Corporate Resolutions (2007 Resolution Sections (3)
and (8)(c) and ISE Mercury Resolution Sections (2)(a) and (2)(c)); and U.S. Exchange
Holdings Certificate, Article FIFTEENTH.

95	

See U.S. Exchange Holdings Certificate, Article FIFTEENTH.

24 




To the extent involved in the activities of ISE Mercury, the Upstream Owners, and
their board members, officers, and employees, irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction
of the U.S. federal courts and the Commission.96



Any change to the governing documents that would have the effect of amending or
repealing the ISE Mercury Resolutions or the 2007 Resolutions must be submitted to
the ISE Mercury Board,97 and, if required, filed with the Commission pursuant to
Section 19 of the Act98 and the rules thereunder before it may be effective.99

The ISE Trust Agreement, in addition to enforcing the ownership and voting limits,100
also serves to effectuate compliance with the other commitments made under the ISE Mercury
Resolutions, which incorporate the 2007 Resolutions. To accomplish that purpose, the ISE Trust
would determine whether a Material Compliance Event101 has occurred or is continuing. The

96	

See, e.g., Form of German Parent Corporate Resolutions (2007 Resolution Sections (2),
(7)(b), and (8)(b) and ISE Mercury Resolution Section (2)). See also U.S. Exchange
Holdings Bylaws, Article VI, Section 16.

97	

See, e.g., Form of German Parent Corporate Resolutions (ISE Mercury Resolution
Section (3)); U.S. Exchange Holdings Certificate, Article SIXTEENTH; and U.S.
Exchange Holdings Bylaws, Article VI, Section 9.

98	

15 U.S.C. 78s.

99	

See, e.g., Form of German Parent Corporate Resolutions (ISE Mercury Resolution
Section (3)); U.S. Exchange Holdings Certificate, Article SIXTEENTH; and U.S.
Exchange Holdings Bylaws, Article VI, Section 9. The requirement to submit changes to
the ISE Mercury Board endures for as long as U.S. Exchange Holdings directly or
indirectly controls ISE Mercury. See U.S. Exchange Holdings Bylaws, Article VI,
Section 9.

100	

See supra notes 59-61 and 68-71 and accompanying text for a discussion of the
ownership and voting limits.

101	

Under the ISE Trust Agreement, a “Material Compliance Event” is any state of facts,
development, event, circumstance, condition, occurrence, or effect that results in the
failure of any of the Affected Affiliates (as defined therein) to adhere to its respective
commitments under the Resolutions in any material respect. See ISE Trust Agreement,
Article I, Section 1.1.

25 


ISE Trust would determine whether the occurrence and continuation of a Material Compliance
Event requires the exercise of the Call Option.102 The ISE Trust holds a Call Option over the
capital stock of ISE Holdings that may be exercised if a Material Compliance Event has occurred
and continues to be in effect. Upon exercise of the Call Option, the Trust Beneficiary103 and ISE
Holdings, as applicable, will take such actions as are necessary to transfer, or cause the transfer
to the ISE Trust of a majority of the Voting Shares then outstanding.104 The ISE Trust will
transfer Deposited Shares from the ISE Trust back to the Trust Beneficiary, as provided in
Section 4.2(h) of the ISE Trust Agreement, only if no Material Compliance Event is continuing
or, notwithstanding its continuation, the Trustees determine that the retention of the Deposited
Shares could not reasonably be expected to address the continuing Material Compliance Event,
provided that the determination is filed with, or filed with and approved by, the Commission.105
The Commission believes that the provisions discussed above, which are designed to help
maintain the independence of ISE Mercury’s regulatory function and help facilitate the ability of
ISE Mercury to carry out its regulatory responsibilities and operate in a manner consistent with
the Act, are appropriate and consistent with the requirements of the Act, particularly with Section
6(b)(1), which requires, in part, an exchange to be so organized and have the capacity to carry
out the purposes of the Act.106 Whether ISE Mercury operates in compliance with the Act,
102

See supra note 68.

103

Under the ISE Trust, the term “Trust Beneficiary” means U.S. Exchange Holdings.

104

See ISE Trust Agreement, Article IV, Section 4.2. Specifically, if a Material Compliance
Event occurs and continues to be in effect, the Trustees must take certain actions,
including, after a specified cure period, the exercise of a Call Option for a transfer of the
majority of capital stock of ISE Holdings that has the right by its terms to vote in the
election of the ISE Holdings Board or on other matters.

105

See ISE Trust Agreement, Article IV, Section 4.2.

106

15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(1).

26 


however, depends on how it and ISE Holdings in practice implement the governance and other
provisions that are the subject of this order. Accordingly, Section 19(h)(1) of the Act107 provides
the Commission with the authority “to suspend for a period not exceeding twelve months or
revoke the registration of [an SRO], or to censure or impose limitations upon the activities,
functions, and operations of [an SRO], if [the Commission] finds, on the record after notice and
opportunity for hearing, that [the SRO] has violated or is unable to comply with any provision of
[the Act], the rules or regulations thereunder, or its own rules or without reasonable justification
or excuse has failed to enforce compliance” with any such provision by its members (including
associated persons thereof).108 If Commission were to find, or become aware of, through staff
review and inspection or otherwise, facts indicating any violations of the Act, including without
limitation Sections 6(b)(1)109 and 19(g)(1),110 these matters could provide the basis for a
disciplinary proceeding under Section 19(h)(1) of the Act.111
Moreover, under Section 20(a) of the Act,112 any person who, directly or indirectly,
controls ISE Mercury would be jointly and severally liable with and to the same extent that ISE
Mercury is liable under any provision of the Act, unless the controlling person acted in good
faith and did not directly or indirectly induce the act or acts constituting the violation or cause of
action. In addition, Section 20(e) of the Act113 creates aiding and abetting liability for any person

107

See 15 U.S.C. 78s(h)(1).

108

See id.

109

See 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(1).

110

See 15 U.S.C. 78s(g)(1).

111

See 15 U.S.C. 78s(h)(1).

112

See 15 U.S.C. 78t(a).

113

See 15 U.S.C. 78t(e).

27 


who knowingly or recklessly provides substantial assistance to another person in violation of any
provision of the Act or rule thereunder. Further, Section 21C of the Act authorizes the
Commission to enter a cease-and-desist order against any person who has been “a cause of” a
violation of any provision of the Act through an act or omission that the person knew or should
have known would contribute to the violation.114 These provisions are applicable to all entities
controlling ISE Mercury, including the ISE Trust, ISE Holdings, and the Upstream Owners.
3.	

Regulation of ISE Mercury

As a prerequisite to the Commission’s granting of an exchange’s application for
registration, an exchange must be so organized and have the capacity to carry out the purposes of
the Act.115 Specifically, an exchange must be able to enforce compliance by its members, and
persons associated with its members, with the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder and
the rules of the exchange.116 The discussion below summarizes how ISE Mercury proposes to
structure and conduct its regulatory operations.
a.	

Corporate Governance Committee and Finance and Audit
Committee

ISE Mercury will have a Chief Regulatory Officer (“CRO”) with general responsibility
for supervision of the regulatory operations of ISE Mercury.117 The CRO will report to the
Corporate Governance Committee118 and to the President/Chief Executive Officer, although the
ISE Mercury Board would retain the power to call the CRO to report directly to the Board as
114

See 15 U.S.C. 78u-3(a). 


115

See Section 6(b)(1) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(1). 


116

See id. See also Section 19(g) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 78s(g). 


117

See Exhibit L to the Form 1 Application. 


118

The Corporate Governance Committee will consist of at least three directors, all of whom

must be Non-Industry Directors. See ISE Mercury Constitution, Article V, Section 5.4.

28 


needed. The CRO also may call special meetings of the Board, as necessary.119 The Corporate
Governance Committee will meet regularly with the CRO to review regulatory matters.120
The Corporate Governance Committee will monitor the regulatory program for
sufficiency, effectiveness, and independence, and will oversee trade practices and market
surveillance, audits, examinations, and other regulatory responsibilities with respect to members
and the conduct of investigations.121 The Corporate Governance Committee also will supervise
the CRO; will receive an annual report from the CRO assessing ISE Mercury’s self-regulatory
program for the Board; will recommend changes that would ensure fair and effective regulation;
and will review regulatory proposals and advise the Board as to whether and how such changes
may impact regulation.122 The Corporate Governance Committee will review annually the
regulatory budget and specifically inquire into the adequacy of the resources available in the
budget for regulatory activities.123 The Corporate Governance Committee will authorize
unbudgeted expenditures for necessary regulatory expenses.124 In addition, the Finance and
Audit Committee will provide oversight over the systems of internal controls established by
management and the Board and the Exchange’s regulatory and compliance process.125

119

See Exhibit L to the Form 1 Application.

120

See id.

121

See id.

122

See id.

123

See id.

124

See id.

125

See id.

29 


The Compensation Committee will set compensation for the CRO.126 The Corporate
Governance Committee, in its sole discretion, will make hiring and termination decisions with
respect to the CRO, in each case taking into consideration any recommendations made by the
President.127 The Corporate Governance Committee will be informed about the compensation of
the CRO, including factors affecting changes thereto.128
b.

Regulatory Funding

To help ensure the Commission that it has and will continue to have adequate funding to
be able to meet its responsibilities under the Act, ISE Mercury represents in its Form 1
Application that, prior to commencing operations as a national securities exchange, ISE Holdings
will provide sufficient funding to ISE Mercury for the exchange to carry out its responsibilities
under the Act.129 Specifically, ISE Mercury represents that ISE Holdings has made a cash
contribution to ISE Mercury of $5 million, in addition to previously provided “in-kind”
contributions of legal, regulatory and infrastructure-related services to ISE Mercury.130 ISE

126	

See id.

127	

See id.

128	

See id.

129	

See Exhibit I to the Form 1 Application.

130	

Other applicants for registration as a national securities exchange have noted in their
Form 1 applications similar funding commitments and representations. In ISE Gemini,
ISE Holdings represented that it would make a capital contribution of $5 million to ISE
Gemini. See ISE Gemini Order, supra note 27. BOX represented that, prior to launch,
BOX Group LLC would allocate sufficient operational assets, including regulatory
infrastructure and industry and regulatory memberships, along with a $1,000,000 loan to
BOX. See BOX Order, supra note 37. In MIAX, the exchange represented that Miami
International Holdings, Inc. would allocate sufficient operational assets and make a
capital contribution of not less than $2,000,000 into MIAX capital account prior to
launching operations. See MIAX Order, supra note 28.

30 


Mercury represents that the cash and in-kind contributions to ISE Mercury will be adequate to
operate ISE Mercury, including its regulatory program.131
ISE Mercury also represents in its Form 1 Application that there is a written agreement
between ISE Mercury and ISE Holdings that requires ISE Holdings to provide adequate funding
for ISE Mercury’s operation, including the regulation of ISE Mercury.132 This agreement further
provides that ISE Holdings will reimburse ISE Mercury for its costs and expenses to the extent
ISE Mercury’s assets are insufficient to meet its costs and expenses.133 Excess funds, as solely
determined by ISE Mercury, will be remitted to ISE Holdings.134 Further, ISE Mercury will
receive all fees, including regulatory fees and trading fees, payable by ISE Mercury’s members,
as well as any funds received from any applicable market data fees and OPRA tape revenue.135
Regulatory Funds will not be used for non-regulatory purposes and will be used to fund the legal,
regulatory and surveillance operations of ISE Mercury.136

131	

See Exhibit I to the Form 1 Application.

132	

See Exhibit I to the Form 1 Application. ISE Gemini, BOX and MIAX also represented
in their Form 1 applications that there would be explicit agreements with their respective
holding companies to provide adequate funding for the exchanges’ operations, including
regulation.

133	

See id.

134	

See id.

135	

See id.

136	

See ISE Mercury LLC Agreement, Article III, Section 3.3. The ISE Mercury LLC
Agreement defines “Regulatory Funds” as fees, fines or penalties derived from the
regulatory operations of ISE Mercury, provided that Regulatory Funds shall not include
revenues derived from listing fees, market data revenues, transaction revenues or any
other aspect of the commercial operations of ISE Mercury or a facility of ISE Mercury,
even if a portion of such revenues are used to pay costs associated with the regulatory
operations of ISE Mercury. Id. This definition is consistent with the rules of other
SROs. See, e.g., MIAX Second Amended and Restated LLC Agreement, Section 16; and
MIAX Amended and Restated By-Laws, Article IX, Section 9.4.

31 


c.	

Rule 17d-2 Agreements; Regulatory Contracts with FINRA and
ISE

Unless the SRO is relieved of this responsibility pursuant to Section 17(d) or Section
19(g)(2) of the Act, Section 19(g)(1) of the Act,137 among other things, requires every SRO
registered as a national securities exchange, absent reasonable justification or excuse, to enforce
compliance by its members and persons associated with its members with the Act, the rules and
regulations thereunder, and the SRO’s own rules.138 Rule 17d-2 of the Act139 permits SROs to
propose joint plans to allocate regulatory responsibilities among themselves for their common
rules with respect to their common members.140 These agreements, which must be filed with and
declared effective by the Commission, generally cover areas where each SRO’s rules
substantively overlap, including such regulatory functions as personnel registration and sales
practices. Without this relief, the statutory obligation of each individual SRO could result in a
pattern of multiple examinations of broker-dealers that maintain memberships in more than one
SRO. Such regulatory duplication would add unnecessary expenses for common members and
137	

15 U.S.C. 78s(g)(1).

138	

15 U.S.C. 78q(d) and 15 U.S.C. 78s(g)(2), respectively.

139	

See Section 17(d)(1) of the Act and Rule 17d-2 thereunder, 15 U.S.C. 78q(d)(1) and 17
CFR 240.17d-2. Section 17(d)(1) of the Act allows the Commission to relieve an SRO of
certain responsibilities with respect to members of the SRO who are also members of
another SRO. Specifically, Section 17(d)(1) allows the Commission to relieve an SRO of
its responsibilities to: (i) receive regulatory reports from such members; (ii) examine
such members for compliance with the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, and
the rules of the SRO; or (iii) carry out other specified regulatory responsibilities with
respect to such members.

140	

17 CFR 240.17d-2. Section 19(g)(1) of the Act requires every SRO to examine its
members and persons associated with its members and to enforce compliance with the
federal securities laws and the SRO’s own rules, unless the SRO is relieved of this
responsibility pursuant to Section 17(d) of the Act. Section 17(d) was intended, in part,
to eliminate unnecessary multiple examinations and regulatory duplication with respect to
Common Members. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 12935 (October 28, 1976),
41 FR 49091 (November 8, 1976).

32 


their SROs. A 17d-2 plan that is declared effective by the Commission relieves the specified
SRO of those regulatory responsibilities allocated by the plan to another SRO.141 Many SROs
have entered into Rule 17d-2 agreements.142
ISE Mercury represents to the Commission that it will enter into the following allocation
of regulatory responsibilities pursuant to Rule 17d-2 of the Act (“17d-2 Plans”),143 including the
two existing multiparty plans applicable to options trading:


Multiparty 17d-2 Plan for the Allocation of Regulatory Responsibility for Options
Sales Practice Matters;144



Multiparty 17d-2 Plan for the Allocation of Regulatory Responsibility for Options
Related Market Surveillance Matters;145 and

141	

See id.

142	

See, e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 73641 (November 19, 2014), 79 FR
70230 (November 25, 2014) (File No. 4-678) (Financial Industry Regulatory Authority,
Inc. (“FINRA”)/MIAX); 70053 (July 26, 2013), 78 FR 46656 (August 1, 2013) (File No.
4-663) (FINRA/ISE Gemini) (“ISE Gemini Bilateral 17d-2 Plan”); 59218 (January 8,
2009), 74 FR 2143 (January 14, 2009) (File No. 4-575) (FINRA/Boston Stock Exchange,
Inc.); 58818 (October 20, 2008), 73 FR 63752 (October 27, 2008) (File No. 4-569)
(FINRA/BATS Exchange, Inc.); 55755 (May 14, 2007), 72 FR 28087 (May 18, 2007)
(File No. 4-536) (National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (“NASD”) (n/k/a
FINRA) and Chicago Board of Options Exchange, Inc. (“CBOE”) concerning the CBOE
Stock Exchange, LLC); 55367 (February 27, 2007), 72 FR 9983 (March 6, 2007) (File
No. 4-529) (NASD/ISE); and 54136 (July 12, 2006), 71 FR 40759 (July 18, 2006) (File
No. 4-517) (NASD/The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC).

143	

Rule 17d-2 under the Act permits SROs to propose joint plans for the allocation of
regulatory responsibilities with respect to their common members (i.e., 17d-2 plans).

144	

See Exhibit L to the Form 1 Application. See also Securities Exchange Act Release No.
68363 (December 5, 2012), 77 FR 73711 (December 11, 2012) (File No. S7-966) (notice
of filing and order approving and declaring effective an amendment to the multiparty
17d-2 plan concerning options-related sales practice matters).

145	

See Exhibit L to the Form 1 Application. See also Securities Exchange Act Release No.
68362 (December 5, 2012), 77 FR 73719 (December 11, 2012) (File No. 4-551) (notice
of filing and order approving and declaring effective an amendment to the multiparty
17d-2 plan concerning options-related market surveillance).

33 


	 Bilateral 17d-2 Plan with FINRA that would cover, among other things, general
inspection, examination, and enforcement activity.146
If the Commission declares effective the amendments to the multilateral 17d-2 Plans and
the new bilateral 17d-2 Plan, another SRO (often FINRA) would assume certain regulatory
responsibility for members of ISE Mercury that are also members of the SRO that assumes the
regulatory responsibilities. This regulatory structure would be consistent with that of other
exchanges, including ISE.147
In addition, ISE Mercury represents that it will enter into a third-party Regulatory Service
Agreement (“RSA”) with FINRA.148 Under the RSA, FINRA149 will carry out certain specified
regulatory activities on behalf of ISE Mercury. For example, FINRA, in its capacity as service
provider to ISE Mercury, will provide member operation services, including membership
application review, conducting market surveillance investigation services, conducting routine
and cause examination services, assisting ISE Mercury with disciplinary proceedings pursuant to
ISE Mercury’s rules including conducting hearings, and providing dispute resolution services to
ISE Mercury members on behalf of ISE Mercury.150 ISE Mercury, as an SRO, however, has the

146	

See Exhibit L of Amendment No. 2 to the Form 1 Application. See also ISE Gemini
Bilateral 17d-2 Plan, supra note 142.

147	

Amendments to the multilateral 17d-2 Plans and the new bilateral 17d-2 Plan are not
before the Commission as part of this order and, therefore, the Commission is not acting
on them at this time.

148	

See, e.g., Exhibit L to the Form 1 Application.

149	

FINRA executed a single RSA with both ISE and ISE Mercury as signatories. The single
RSA, however, has two separate statements of work. The first statement of work
describes the specified regulatory activities that FINRA will carry out on behalf of ISE.
The second statement of work describes the specified regulatory activities that FINRA
will carry out on behalf of ISE Mercury.

150	

See Exhibit L to the Form 1 Application.

34 


ultimate legal responsibility for the regulation of its members and market. This regulatory
structure would be consistent with that of other exchanges.151
ISE Mercury also represents that it will enter into a facilities management agreement
(“FMA”) with ISE.152 Pursuant to the proposed FMA, ISE intends to provide to ISE Mercury
certain services, including, for example, business management services, facilities management
services, IT services, fiscal services, as well as other regulatory compliance services and other
legal services, such as surveillance programs, legal programs, systems and other operational
services.153 ISE Mercury, however, will retain ultimate legal responsibility for the regulation of
its members and market.
The Commission believes that it is consistent with the Act for ISE Mercury to contract
with other SROs to perform certain examination, enforcement, and disciplinary functions.154
These functions are fundamental elements of a regulatory program, and constitute core selfregulatory functions. The Commission believes that both FINRA, as an SRO that provides
contractual services to other SROs, and ISE, as an SRO that currently operates an options

151	

For example, ISE Gemini, ISE, EDGA Exchange, Inc., EDGX Exchange Inc., and BATS
have entered into 17d-2 Plans and RSAs with FINRA.

152	

See, e.g., Exhibit L to the Form 1 Application. The FMA with ISE provides, in part, for
the provision of legal and other regulatory compliance services.

153	

See id.

154	

See, e.g., Regulation ATS Release, supra note 28. See also Securities Exchange Act
Release Nos. 50122 (July 29, 2004), 69 FR 47962 (August 6, 2004) (SR-Amex-2004-32)
(order approving rule that allowed Amex to contract with another SRO for regulatory
services) (“American Stock Exchange (“Amex”) Regulatory Services Approval Order”);
57478 (March 12, 2008), 73 FR 14521 (March 18, 2008) (SR-NASDAQ-2007-004 and
SR-NASDAQ-2007-080) (“NOM Approval Order”); Nasdaq Order, supra note 27; and
BATS Order, supra note 27.

35 


exchange, should have the capacity to perform these functions for ISE Mercury.155 However,
ISE Mercury, unless relieved by the Commission of its responsibility,156 bears the ultimate
responsibility for self-regulatory responsibilities and primary liability for self-regulatory failures,
not the SRO retained to perform regulatory functions on ISE Mercury’s behalf. In performing
these regulatory functions, however, the SRO retained to perform specified regulatory functions
may nonetheless bear liability for causing or aiding and abetting the failure of ISE Mercury to
perform its regulatory functions.157 Accordingly, although FINRA and ISE will not act on their
own behalves under their respective SRO responsibilities in carrying out the above mentioned
regulatory services for ISE Mercury, as the SROs retained to perform regulatory functions,
FINRA and ISE may have secondary liability if, for example, the Commission finds that the
contracted functions are being performed so inadequately as to cause a violation of the federal
securities laws by ISE Mercury.
As part of its FMA with ISE, ISE Mercury proposes to use dual employees to staff its
regulatory services program. In other words, current ISE employees will also serve in a similar
capacity for ISE Mercury under the FMA. ISE Mercury represents that the FMA will contain an

155	

See, e.g., Amex Regulatory Services Approval Order, supra note 154; NOM Approval
Order, supra note 154; and Nasdaq Order, supra note 27. The Commission notes that the
RSA and FMA are not before the Commission and, therefore, the Commission is not
acting on them.

156	

See supra note 139.

157	

For example, if failings by the SRO retained to perform regulatory functions have the
effect of leaving an exchange in violation of any aspect of the exchange’s self-regulatory
obligations, the exchange will bear direct liability for the violation, while the SRO
retained to perform regulatory functions may bear liability for causing or aiding and
abetting the violation. See, e.g., ISE Gemini Order, supra note 27; MIAX Order, supra
note 28; BOX Order, supra note 37; and Securities Exchange Act Release No. 42455
(February 24, 2000), 65 FR 11388 (March 2, 2000) (File No. 10-127) (order granting the
exchange registration of ISE) (“ISE Order”).

36 


obligation on the part of ISE Mercury and ISE to preserve the other party’s information and
materials which are confidential, proprietary, and/or trade secrets and prevent unauthorized use
or disclosure to third parties.158
The Commission believes that the use of ISE employees by ISE Mercury is appropriate,
as the operations, rules, and management of ISE and ISE Mercury will overlap to a considerable
degree such that ISE Mercury should benefit by leveraging the experience of current ISE staff.
The Commission has approved such arrangements in a similar context.159 However, the
Commission expects ISE and ISE Mercury to monitor the workload of their shared employees
and supplement their staffs, if necessary, so that ISE Mercury maintains sufficient personnel to
allow it to carry out the purposes of the Act and enforce compliance with the rules of ISE
Mercury and the federal securities laws.
D.	

Trading System
1.	

Access to ISE Mercury

Access to ISE Mercury will be through the use of Exchange Rights.160 Through an
application process, organizations will be approved to become members of ISE Mercury and to
exercise trading rights.161 Exchange Rights will not convey any ownership rights, but will

158	

See Exhibit L to the Form 1 Application.

159	

See, e.g., ISE Gemini Order, supra note 27; Securities Exchange Act Release No. 61152
(December 10, 2009), 74 FR 66699 (December 16, 2009) (File No. 10-191) (order
granting registration to C2 Options Exchange) (“C2 Order”).

160	

See supra note 19.

161	

The term “Member” means an organization that has been approved to exercise trading
rights associated with Exchange Rights, and the term “Membership” refers to the trading
privileges associated with Exchange Rights. See ISE Mercury Rules 100(a)(23) and
100(a)(24). Under ISE Mercury Rules 300 and 302(c), ISE Mercury shall issue
memberships that confer the ability to transact on ISE Mercury, although no rights shall
be conferred upon a member except those set forth in the ISE Mercury LLC Agreement

37 


provide for voting rights for representation on the ISE Mercury Board and will confer the ability
to transact on ISE Mercury.162 Exchange Rights may not be leased and are not transferable
except in the event of a change in control of a member or corporate reorganization involving a
member.163 There is no limit on the number of Exchange Rights issued by ISE Mercury.164
Membership in ISE Mercury will be open to any broker-dealer registered under Section
15(b) of the Act that meets the standards for membership set forth in the rules of ISE Mercury.165
The Exchange’s denials from, and impositions of conditions upon, becoming or continuing to be
a member may be appealed pursuant to rules governing hearing and review, described in Section
II.E below.166 In addition to its regular membership application process, ISE Mercury also will
provide a process whereby a current member of ISE or ISE Gemini in good standing that is a
registered broker-dealer can submit an abbreviated “waive-in” application to ISE Mercury.167
This waive-in process is similar to arrangements in place at other exchanges.168

or ISE Mercury Rules as amended from time to time. A membership shall not convey
any ownership interest in the Exchange. See ISE Mercury Rules 300 and 302(c).
162	

See ISE Mercury Rules 300 and 302(c); see also ISE Mercury LLC Agreement, Article
VI, Sections 6.1 and 6.3.

163	

See ISE Mercury Rule 302(c). In such case, member status may be transferred to a
qualified affiliate or successor upon written notice to ISE Mercury. Id.

164	

See ISE Mercury Rule 300; see also ISE Mercury LLC Agreement, Article VI, Section
6.1.

165

See ISE Mercury Rule 301.

166

See ISE Mercury Rule 1700 Series, which incorporates by reference ISE Rule 1700
Series.

167

See ISE Mercury Rule 302(a).

168

See, e.g., C2 Options Exchange, Inc. Rule 3.1(c)(1) (containing a similar expedited
waive-in membership process for members of CBOE).

38 


ISE Mercury will have three classes of membership: (1) PMMs; (2) CMMs; and (3)
EAMs.169 PMM and CMMs may seek appointment to become market makers in one or more
options classes traded on the Exchange.170 ISE Mercury proposes to allow firms that register as
market makers to receive special privileges or rights over non-market maker members, such as
participation entitlements for PMMs, if they satisfy certain affirmative and negative market
making obligations on the Exchange.171 This is similar to arrangements in place at other
exchanges, such as ISE and ISE Gemini.172
The Commission finds that ISE Mercury’s proposed membership rules are consistent
with the Act, including Section 6(b)(2) of the Act,173 which requires the rules of an exchange to
provide that any registered broker or dealer or natural person associated with a registered broker
or dealer may become a member of such exchange and any person may become associated with a
member thereof. ISE Mercury’s proposed rules with respect to exchange membership are
substantively similar to the rules of other exchanges.174

169	

See ISE Mercury Rule 301(c).

170	

See ISE Mercury Rule 800 Series.

171	

See ISE Mercury Rules 713, 802 and 803. See infra Section II.D.3.b. for further
discussion of market maker privileges and obligations.

172	

See, e.g., ISE Rules 713, 802 and 803, and ISE Gemini Rules 713, 802 and 803
(containing similar rights and obligations for market makers on ISE and ISE Gemini,
respectively). ISE Mercury’s approach is consistent with the rules of other exchanges
that have no limit on the number of exchange rights, or their functional equivalent, that
may be issued by the exchange. See, e.g., C2 Order, supra note 159.

173	

15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(2).

174	

See, e.g., ISE Gemini Rule 300 Series (“Membership”); MIAX Rule 200 Series
(“Access”).

39 


The Commission notes that pursuant to Section 6(c) of the Act,175 an exchange must deny
membership to any person, other than a natural person, that is not a registered broker or dealer,
any natural person that is not, or is not associated with, a registered broker or dealer, and
registered broker-dealers that do not satisfy certain standards, such as financial responsibility or
operational capacity. As a registered exchange, ISE Mercury must independently determine if an
applicant satisfies the standards set forth in the Act, regardless of whether an applicant is a
member of another SRO.176
In addition, ISE Mercury also will allow non-members to access ISE Mercury as
“sponsored customers” of an ISE Mercury member, subject to certain rules.177 The sponsoring
member will be responsible for implementing policies and procedures to supervise and monitor
the trading of its sponsored users to ensure compliance with all applicable federal securities laws
and rules and ISE Mercury rules.178 ISE Mercury’s proposed sponsored access rules are similar
to the rules of other exchanges that provide for sponsored access179 and are consistent with Rule
15c3-5 under the Act.180

175

15 U.S.C. 78f(c).

176

See, e.g., ISE Gemini Order, supra note 27, at 78 FR 46633; MIAX Order, supra note 28,
at 77 FR 73074; BOX Order, supra note 37, at 77 FR 26337; BATS Order, supra note 27,
at 73 FR 49502; and Nasdaq Order, supra note 27, at 71 FR 3555.

177

See ISE Mercury Rule 706, Supplementary Material .01.

178

See ISE Mercury Rule 706. See also 17 CFR 240.15c3-5.

179

See, e.g., ISE Rule 706; see also ISE Gemini Rule 706; MIAX Rule 210.

180

17 CFR 240.15c3-5.

40 


2.	

Linkage

ISE Mercury intends to become a participant in the Plan Relating to Options Order
Protection and Locked/Crossed Markets or any successor plan (“Linkage Plan”).181 If admitted
as a participant to the Linkage Plan, other plan participants will be able to send orders to ISE
Mercury in accordance with the terms of the plan as applied to ISE Mercury.
ISE Mercury rules include relevant definitions; establish the conditions pursuant to
which members may enter orders in accordance with the Linkage Plan; impose obligations on
ISE Mercury regarding how it must process incoming orders; establish a general standard that
members and ISE Mercury should avoid trade-throughs; establish potential regulatory liability
for members that engage in a pattern or practice of trading through other exchanges; and
establish obligations with respect to locked and crossed markets.
The Commission believes that ISE Mercury has proposed rules that are designed to
comply with the requirements of the Linkage Plan.182 Further, as provided below, before ISE
Mercury can commence operations as an exchange, it must become a participant in the Linkage
Plan.

181	

See Exhibit E to the Form 1 Application, Section B for a discussion of the Linkage Plan;
and Exhibit L to the Form 1 Application. See also Securities Exchange Act Release No.
60405 (July 30, 2009), 74 FR 39362 (August 6, 2009) (File No. 4-546) (order approving
the National Market System Plan Relating to Options Order Protection and
Locked/Crossed Markets Submitted by the Chicago Board Options Exchange,
Incorporated, International Securities Exchange, LLC, The NASDAQ Stock Market
LLC, NASDAQ OMX BX, Inc., NASDAQ OMX PHLX, Inc., NYSE Amex LLC, and
NYSE Arca, Inc.).

182	

See, e.g., ISE Mercury Rules relating to Intermarket Linkage in Rule 1900 Series, which
incorporates by reference ISE Rule 1900 Series.

41 


3.	

Market Makers
a.	

Registration of Market Makers

Members of ISE Mercury may apply to become one of two types of market maker:
PMMs or CMMs (collectively, “Market Makers”). Market Makers are entitled to receive certain
benefits and privileges in exchange for fulfilling certain affirmative and negative market-making
obligations.183 Each class of Market Maker will receive a specific level of benefits and
privileges in exchange for a specific level of obligation from such Market Maker.
To begin the process of registering as a PMM or CMM, a member will be required to file
a written application with ISE Mercury.184 In reviewing a member’s application for
membership, ISE Mercury will consider, among other things, the applicant’s market making
ability.185 To qualify for registration as a Market Maker, a member of ISE Mercury must meet
the requirements established in Rule 15c3-1 under the Act186 and the general requirements set
forth in ISE Mercury Rule 800 series, including the minimum financial requirements of ISE
Mercury Rule 809.187 All members who are approved to become Market Makers will be

183	

Market Makers’ benefits and obligations are discussed in greater detail in the following
section.

184	

See ISE Mercury Rule 800(b).

185	

See id. The provision permitting ISE Mercury to consider “such other factors as [it]
deems appropriate” must be applied in a manner that is consistent with the Act, including
provisions that prohibit an exchange from acting in an unfairly discriminatory manner.
See 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5); see also ISE Gemini Order, supra note 27, at 78 FR 46634 n.
195; MIAX Order, supra note 28, at 77 FR 73074 n.149.

186	

17 CFR 240.15c3-1.

187	

See ISE Mercury Rule 800 Series. See also ISE Mercury Rule 1300 Series relating to
Net Capital Requirements, which incorporates by reference ISE Rule 1300 Series.

42 


designated as specialists on ISE Mercury for all purposes under the Act and rules thereunder.188
ISE Mercury will not limit the number of qualifying entities that may become Market Makers.189
In addition, all ISE and ISE Gemini market makers in good standing will be eligible for
an Exchange Right in the same membership category in which they operate on ISE and ISE
Gemini, respectively, to trade on ISE Mercury.190 For example, a CMM in good standing on ISE
will be eligible to become a CMM on ISE Mercury, through the submission and approval of an
ISE Mercury Waive-In Membership Application.191
Once approved, a Market Maker may seek appointment to make markets in one or more
options classes traded on the ISE Mercury.192 Further, ISE Mercury will provide non-ISE and
ISE Gemini members with at least sixty days advance written notice of the date upon which the
Exchange will allocate options classes and appoint market makers in order to ensure that nonISE and ISE Gemini members have a reasonable opportunity to participate in those processes.193
A market participant must have completed a membership application to be eligible to participate
in the appointment and allocation processes.194

188

See ISE Mercury Rule 800(a). 


189

See ISE Mercury Rule 300. See also Exhibit E to the Form 1 Application, Section 1. 


190

See ISE Mercury Rule 302(a). 


191

See id. See also Exhibit F to the Form 1 Application. 


192

See ISE Mercury Rule 802(a). 


193

A non-ISE and ISE-Gemini member must have a completed a membership application to 

be eligible to participate in the processes. See ISE Mercury Rule 302(b).

194

See Exhibit E to the Form 1 Application, Section A (“Introduction”).

43 


Either the ISE Mercury Board or a committee thereof195 will appoint classes of options
contracts traded on ISE Mercury to Market Makers, taking into consideration: (1) the financial
resources available to the Market Maker; (2) the Market Maker’s experience and expertise in
market making or options trading; and (3) the maintenance and enhancement of competition
among Market Makers in each option class to which they are appointed.196 No appointment of a
Market Maker will be without the Market Maker’s consent to such appointment, provided that
refusal to accept an appointment may be deemed sufficient cause for termination or suspension
of a market maker’s registration.197 ISE Mercury will appoint a PMM to each options class
traded on ISE Mercury.198 Once appointed, ISE Mercury will surveil a Market Maker’s activity
for continued compliance with all applicable rules and requirements, which are discussed in
more detail below.199
The Commission finds that ISE Mercury’s proposed rules for the registration and
appointment of Market Makers are consistent with the Act. In particular, ISE Mercury’s rules
provide an objective process by which a member could become a Market Maker on ISE Mercury
and provide for oversight by ISE Mercury to monitor for continued compliance by Market
Makers with the terms of their application for such status. The Commission notes that ISE
Mercury’s proposed Market Maker registration and appointment requirements are similar to

195

See ISE Mercury Rule 802(a). ISE Mercury Rule 1700 Series provides the process for
hearings, review, and arbitration of claims by persons economically aggrieved by ISE
Mercury action, which would include denial of registration as a Market Maker.

196

See id.

197

See id.

198

See ISE Mercury Rule 802(b).

199

See ISE Mercury Rule 802(e).

44 


those of other options exchanges.200
b.	

Market Maker Obligations

Pursuant to ISE Mercury rules, Market Makers will be subject to a number of general
obligations. In particular, the transactions of a Market Maker should constitute a course of
dealings reasonably calculated to contribute to the maintenance of a fair and orderly market and
a Marker Maker should not make bids or offers or enter into transactions that are inconsistent
with such a course of dealings.201 A Market Maker has a continuous obligation to engage, to a
reasonable degree under the existing circumstances, in dealings for his own account when there
exists, or it is reasonably anticipated that there will exist, a lack of price continuity, a temporary
disparity between the supply of and demand for a particular options contract, or a temporary
distortion of the price relationships between options contracts of the same class.202 For all series
of option classes which the Market Maker is appointed, the Market Maker is expected to: (1)
compete with other Market Makers to improve the market; (2) make markets that, absent
changed market conditions, will be honored for the number of contracts entered into the ISE
Mercury’s system; (3) update market quotations in response to changed market conditions; (4)
price options contracts fairly by, among other things, bidding and offering so as to create the
prescribed bid/ask differentials.203 These provisions are similar to arrangements in place at other

200	

See, e.g., ISE Rules 800 and 801, ISE Gemini Rules 800 and 801, and MIAX Rule 600
(registration); ISE Rule 802, ISE Gemini Rule 802, and MIAX Rule 602 (appointment).

201	

See ISE Mercury Rule 803(a).

202	

See ISE Mercury Rule 803(b).

203	

See ISE Mercury Rule 803(b)(1)-(4). Specifically, under ISE Mercury Rule 803(b)(4),
following the opening rotation, Market Makers must create differences of no more than
$5 between the bid and offer. Prior to the opening rotation, spread differentials shall be
no more than $.25 between the bid and offer for each options contract for which the bid is
less than $2, no more than $.40 where the bid is at least $2 but does not exceed $5, no

45 


options exchanges.204
Further, Market Makers must maintain minimum net capital in accordance with ISE
Mercury rules, including the minimum financial requirement pursuant to ISE Mercury Rule 809,
in addition to the Act and rules and regulations thereunder.205
ISE Mercury’s rules governing Market Maker quoting obligations also are tailored to the
specific class of Market Maker (i.e., PMM or CMM).206 Specifically, a PMM will be subject to
the highest standard applicable on ISE Mercury. On a daily basis, PMMs must enter continuous
two-sided quotations and enter into any resulting transactions in all of the series listed on the ISE
Mercury of the options classes to which they are appointed.207 PMMs are also required to
participate in the opening rotation.208 Although a CMM is not required to enter quotations in the
options classes to which it is appointed, whenever a CMM does enter a quote in an options class
to which it is appointed, the CMM must then provide continuous quotations in that class for 60%

more than $.50 where the bid is more than $5 but does not exceed $10, no more than $.80
where the bid is more than $10 but does not exceed $20, and no more than $1 where the
bid is $20 or greater, provided that the ISE Mercury may establish differences other than
the above for one or more options series. These differentials do not apply to in-the­
money options series where the underlying securities market is wider than the
differentials.
204	

See, e.g., ISE Gemini Rules 802 and 803 (containing similar rights and obligations for
market makers on ISE Gemini).

205	

See ISE Mercury Rule 1300 Series, which incorporates by reference ISE Rule 1300
Series; see also ISE Mercury Rule 809.

206	

See ISE Mercury Rule 804.

207	

See ISE Mercury Rule 804(e)(1); see also ISE Mercury Rule 804(c). A PMM shall be
deemed to have provided continuous quotes pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of Rule 804 if it
provides two-sided quotes for 90% of the time that an options class is open for trading on
the ISE Mercury. See ISE Mercury Rule 804, Supplementary Material .01.

208	

See ISE Mercury Rule 701(b)(1).

46 


of the time the options class is open for trading on ISE Mercury.209 Further, whenever in the
judgment of an ISE Mercury official it is necessary in the interest of fair and orderly markets to
do so, CMMs may be called upon to submit a single quote or maintain continuous quotes in one
or more series of options class to which the CMM is appointed.210 For purposes of meeting the
continuous quoting obligations discussed herein, a Market Maker’s quote must meet the bid/ask
differential requirements of ISE Mercury Rule 803(b)(4).211
In options classes other than to which it is appointed, ISE Mercury’s rules provide that a
Market Maker should not engage in transactions in an account in which it has an interest that are
disproportionate in relation to, or in derogation of, the performance of its market making
obligations.212 Further, the total number of contracts executed during a quarter by a CMM in
options classes to which it is not appointed may not exceed 25% of the total number of contracts
traded by such CMMs in classes to which it is appointed and with respect to which it was
quoting pursuant to ISE Mercury Rule 804(e)(2).213 Similarly, the total number of contracts
executed during a quarter by a PMM in options classes to which it is not appointed may not
exceed 10% of the total number of contracts traded per each PMM membership.214
If ISE Mercury finds any failure by a Market Maker to properly perform as a market
209	

See ISE Mercury Rule 804(e)(2). A CMM must maintain continuous quotations for at
least 90% of the time the options class for which it receives Preferenced Orders is open
for trading on the ISE Mercury. See ISE Mercury Rule 804(e)(2)(iii); see also ISE
Mercury Rule 713, Supplementary Material .03 regarding Preferenced Orders.

210	

See ISE Mercury Rule 804(e)(2)(iv).

211	

See ISE Mercury Rule 804(e)(1)-(2). See also supra note 203.

212	

See ISE Mercury Rule 803(d). Among other things, a Market Maker should not effect
purchases or sales on the ISE Mercury except in a reasonable and orderly manner. See
id.

213	

See ISE Mercury Rule 805(b)(2).

214	

See ISE Mercury Rule 805(b)(3).

47 


maker, such Market Maker may be subject to suspension or termination.215 ISE Mercury may
suspend or terminate any appointment of a Market Maker under ISE Mercury Rule 802 and may
make additional appointments whenever, in ISE Mercury’s judgment, the interests of a fair and
orderly market are best served by such action.216
Although Market Makers have a number of obligations, Market Makers also receive
certain benefits for carrying out their responsibilities.217 For example, a broker-dealer or other
lender may extend “good faith” credit to a member of a national securities exchange or registered
broker-dealer to finance its activities as a market maker or specialist.218 PMMs are also entitled
to certain participation entitlements.219 In addition, market makers are excepted from the
prohibition in Section 11(a) of the Act.220
The Commission believes that a market maker must be subject to sufficient and
commensurate affirmative obligations, including the obligation to hold itself out as willing to
buy and sell options for its own account on a regular or continuous basis, to justify favorable
treatment.221 The Commission further believes that the rules of all U.S. options markets need not
provide the same standards for market maker participation, so long as they impose affirmative

215

See ISE Mercury Rule 800(c). 


216

See ISE Mercury Rule 802(d). 


217

See, e.g., ISE Gemini Order, supra note 27; MIAX Order, supra note 28 (discussing the 

benefits and obligations of market makers).

218

See 12 CFR 221.5 and 12 CFR 220.7; see also 17 CFR 240.15c3-1(a)(6) (capital
requirements for market makers).

219

See ISE Mercury Rule 713, Supplementary Material .01(b)-(c). See also infra notes 248­
255 and accompanying text (describing the PMM participation entitlements).

220

15 U.S.C. 78k(a).

221

See ISE Gemini Order, supra note 27, at 78 FR 46635; MIAX Order, supra note 28, at 77
FR 73076; BOX Order supra note 37.

48 


obligations that are consistent with the Act.222 The Commission believes that ISE Mercury’s
Market Maker participation requirements impose appropriate affirmative obligations on ISE
Mercury’s Market Makers that are commensurate with the benefits afforded to such participants,
as discussed above, and, accordingly, are consistent with the Act. The Commission believes that
the specific levels of benefits conferred on the different classes of Market Makers are
appropriately balanced by the obligations imposed by ISE Mercury’s rules. The Commission
further believes that ISE Mercury’s market maker requirements,223 which are identical to those of
ISE and ISE Gemini224 and similar to other options exchanges’ rules,225 impose sufficient
appropriate obligations that are consistent with the Act. Finally, the Commission believes that
the Act does not mandate a particular market model for exchanges, and while Market Makers
may become an important source of liquidity on ISE Mercury, they will likely not be the only
source as ISE Mercury is designed to match buying and selling interest of all ISE Mercury
participants.
4.

Order Display, Execution, and Priority

ISE Mercury proposes to operate a fully automated electronic options trading platform to
buy or sell securities with a continuous, automated matching function.226 Liquidity will be
derived from ISE Mercury members acting as principal or as agent electronically submitting

222

See id. 


223

See ISE Mercury Rule 803. 


224

See, e.g., ISE Rule 800 Series; ISE Gemini Rule 800 Series. 


225

See, e.g., ISE Gemini Order, supra note 27; MIAX Order, supra note 28; BOX Order, 

supra note 37.

226

See Exhibit E to the Form 1 Application.

49 


quotes as well as market and various types of limit orders to buy or to sell.227 Non-members also
may access ISE Mercury pursuant to ISE Mercury rules governing “sponsored access.” 228 All
electronic submissions of quotes and orders to ISE Mercury will be from remote locations, as
there will be no trading floor.229 ISE Mercury’s system generally will automatically execute
incoming orders.230 Non-opening trades will occur when a buy order/quote and a sell
order/quote match on the ISE Mercury’s order book.231 All options will be traded in decimals on
ISE Mercury and will be consistent with the Penny Pilot.232
All orders submitted to ISE Mercury’s trading platform must have a designated price and
size (limit orders)233 or must be orders to buy or sell a stated amount of a security at the national
227	

See id.

228	

See id.

229	

See id.

230	

See ISE Mercury Rule 714.

231	

See Exhibit E to the Form 1 Application.

232	

See ISE Mercury Rule 710 and Supplementary Material .01. The Commission has
approved exchange rules on a pilot basis that permit an exchange to quote series with
premiums under $3 in pennies and series with premiums of $3 and over in nickels in
approximately 360 options classes (“Penny Pilot”). In addition, these rules allow all
series in QQQQs, IWM, and SPY to be quoted in pennies. See, e.g., Securities Exchange
Act Release Nos. 60711 (September 23, 2009), 74 FR 49419 (September 28, 2009);
61061 (November 24, 2009), 74 FR 62857 (December 1, 2009) (File No. SR-NYSEArca­
2009-44) (approving Penny Pilot program expansions for NYSE Arca). Proposed
Supplementary Material .01 to Rule 710 would permit ISE Mercury to operate a pilot to
permit certain options classes to be quoted and traded in increments as low as $0.01,
consistent with these previously approved rules. Specifically, this pilot is consistent with
the penny pilot on ISE Gemini, which was last extended on June 26, 2015 and is
scheduled to expire on June 30, 2016. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 75315
(June 26, 2015), 80 FR 38243 (July 2, 2015) (File No. SR-ISE Gemini-2015-12). Similar
to ISE Gemini, ISE Mercury has further agreed to submit to the Commission such reports
regarding the Penny Pilot as the Commission may request. See Exhibit B to the Form 1
Application.

233	

A limit order is an order to buy or sell a stated number of options contracts at a specified
price or better. ISE Mercury Rule 715(b).

50 


best bid or offer when the order reaches ISE Mercury (market orders).234 Members may submit
the following orders to ISE Mercury: Market Orders; Limit Orders (including Marketable Limit,
Fill-or-Kill, Immediate or Cancel, Non-Displayed Penny Order, Sweep, Intermarket Sweep, and
Stopped Orders);235 or Contingency Orders (including All-Or-None, Stop, Stop Limit, Customer
Participation, Reserve, Attributable, Customer Cross, Qualified Contingent Cross, Minimum
Quantity, Do-Not-Route, Add Liquidity, Opening Only, and Good-Till-Date Orders).236 Like
234	

A market order is an order to buy or sell a stated number of options contracts that is to be
executed at the best price obtainable when the order reaches ISE Mercury. ISE Mercury
Rule 715(a).

235	

See ISE Mercury Rule 715. A Marketable Limit Order is a limit order to buy (sell) at or
above (below) the best offer (bid) on the ISE Mercury. A Fill-or-Kill Order is a limit
order that is to be executed in its entirety as soon as it is received and, if not so executed,
treated as cancelled. An Immediate-or-Cancel Order is a limit order that is to be executed
in whole or in part upon receipt and any portion not so executed is to be treated as
cancelled. A Non-Displayed Penny Order is a limit order that specifies a one-cent price
increment in a security that has a minimum trading increment pursuant to ISE Mercury
Rule 710 that is larger than one-cent. A Sweep Order is a limit order that is executed in
whole or in part on the exchange with the portion not executed routed pursuant to
Supplementary Material .05 to ISE Mercury Rule 1901, which incorporates by reference
ISE Rule 1901. An Intermarket Sweep Order is a limit order that meets the requirements
of ISE Mercury Rule 1900(h), which incorporates by reference ISE Rule 1900(h). A
Stopped Order is a limit order that meets the requirements of ISE Mercury Rule
1901(b)(8), which incorporates by reference ISE Rule 1901(b)(8). To execute Stopped
Orders, members must enter them into the Facilitation Mechanism or Solicited Order
Mechanism pursuant to ISE Mercury Rule 716.

236	

See ISE Mercury Rule 715. An All-or-None Order is a limit or market order that is to be
executed in its entirety or not at all. A Stop Order is an order that becomes a market
order when the stop price is elected. A Stop Limit Order is an order that becomes a limit
order when the stop price is elected. A Customer Participation Order is a limit order on
behalf of a Public Customer (as defined in ISE Mercury Rule 100(a)(38)) that, in addition
to the limit order price in standard increments according to ISE Mercury Rule 710,
includes a price stated in one-cent increments at which the Public Customer wishes to
participate in trades executed in the same options series in penny increments through the
Price Improvement Mechanism pursuant to ISE Mercury Rule 723. A Reserve Order is a
limit order that contains both a displayed portion and a non-displayed portion. An
Attributable Order is a market or limit order which displays the user firm ID for purposes
of electronic trading on ISE Mercury. A Customer Cross Order is comprised of a Priority
Customer Order (as defined in ISE Mercury Rule 100(a)(37B) to buy and a Priority

51 


ISE, ISE Mercury also will permit flash mechanisms. Accordingly, certain orders will first be
exposed at the National Best Bid or Offer (“NBBO”) to all ISE Mercury members for execution
at the NBBO before an unaffiliated broker, under contract with ISE Mercury, routes the order to
another market for execution.237
Quotes entered by PMMs and CMMs must, like Limit Orders, be priced and have a
designated size.238 Orders will be accepted for any security traded on ISE Mercury, whether
submitted by a member on a proprietary or agency basis in any size,239 whereas quotes for any
security traded on ISE Mercury may only be submitted by PMMs and CMMs and only in the
options classes to which the market makers are appointed.240 ISE Mercury will be required to
maintain a full audit trail of every incoming and outgoing message (including all orders and

Customer Order to sell at the same price and for the same quantity. A Qualified
Contingent Cross order is comprised of an order to buy or sell at least 1000 contracts that
is identified as being part of a qualified contingent trade (as defined in ISE Mercury Rule
715, Supplementary Material .02) coupled with a contra-side order to buy or sell an equal
number of contracts. A Minimum Quantity Order is an order that is initially available for
partial execution only for a specified number of contracts or greater. A Do-Not-Route
Order is a market or limit order that is to be executed in whole or in part on ISE Mercury
only. An Add Liquidity Order is a limit order that is to be executed in whole or in part on
ISE Mercury (i) only after being displayed on ISE Mercury’s limit order book; and (ii)
without routing any portion of the order to another market center. An Opening Only
Order is a limit order that can be entered for the opening rotation only. A Good-Till-Date
Order is a limit order to buy or sell which, if not executed, will be cancelled at the sooner
of the end of the expiration date assigned to the order, or the expiration of the series.
These order types are the same order types that are available on ISE, except that ISE also
includes several complex order types that are not proposed for ISE Mercury. See ISE
Mercury Rule 715; ISE Rules 715 and 722; see also Exhibit B to the Form 1 Application.
237	

See ISE Mercury Rule 1901, Supplementary Material .02 (which incorporates by
reference ISE Rule 1901, Supplementary Material .02).

238	

See ISE Mercury Rule 804(b).

239	

See ISE Mercury Rule 713(a).

240	

See ISE Mercury Rule 804(a).

52 


quotes) submitted to the ISE Mercury’s system.241 Members may receive status reports
regarding orders submitted to ISE Mercury or change or cancel an order at any time before that
order is executed on ISE Mercury, except as otherwise specified in ISE Mercury Rule 723 (Price
Improvement Mechanism for Crossing Transactions).242
All orders and quotes submitted to ISE Mercury will be displayed unless designated
otherwise by the member submitting the order.243 Displayed orders and quotes will be displayed
on an anonymous basis (except for Attributable Orders,244 which will allow voluntary disclosure
of firm identification information) at a member’s specified price. Non-Displayed Orders (the
non-displayed portion of a Reserve Order or a Non-Displayed Penny Order) will not be
displayed to anyone and will not have time priority over displayed orders at the same price.245

241	

See 17 CFR 240.17a-5. See also Exhibit E to the Form 1 Application, Section C.

242	

See Exhibit E to the Form 1 Application, Section C.

243	

See ISE Mercury Rule 704.

244	

An Attributable Order is a market or limit order which displays the user firm’s ID for
purposes of trading on the ISE Mercury. See ISE Mercury Rule 715(h). Use of
Attributable Orders would be voluntary. This order type is consistent with similar order
types on other exchanges. See, e.g., ISE Gemini Rule 715(h); CBOE Rule 6.53(o)
(attributable order type).

245	

See ISE Mercury Rules 715(b)(4) and 715(g).

53 


ISE Mercury will utilize a pro-rata priority scheme with a Priority Customer
preference.246 This scheme is the same as what the Commission has approved for ISE and ISE
Gemini.247
In addition, under ISE Mercury rules, PMMs are granted certain participation
entitlements. For example, PMMs will be entitled to a participation entitlement with respect to
each incoming order if they have a quote at the NBBO.248 The PMM participation entitlement
will apply only to any remaining balance after any Priority Customer249 orders have first been
satisfied.250 The PMM will not be allocated a total quantity greater than the quantity it is quoting

246	

See ISE Mercury Rule 713, Supplementary Material .01. Under this priority
methodology, the highest bid and lowest offer will have priority except that Priority
Customer Orders will have priority over professional interest and all market maker
interest at the same price. Subject to certain limits, Professional Orders and market
maker quotes at the best price receive allocations based upon the percentage of the total
number of contracts available at the best price that is represented by the size of the
Professional Order or quote. If there were two or more Priority Customer Orders for the
same options series at the same price, priority will be afforded based on the sequence in
which such orders were received. ISE Mercury rules will define “Priority Customer” as a
person or entity that is not a broker or dealer in securities, and does not place more than
390 orders in listed options per day on average during a calendar month for its own
beneficial accounts. “Professional Orders,” i.e., orders for the account of a person or
entity that is not a Priority Customer, will be subordinate to Priority Customer Orders for
priority and fee purposes. Professional Orders will include orders of broker-dealers and
orders of those Public Customers that are not Priority Customers. See ISE Mercury
Rules 100(a)(37A)-(37C) for definitions of Priority Customer, Priority Customer Order
and Professional Order, respectively.

247	

See, e.g., ISE Rule 713; ISE Gemini Rule 713 (Priority of Quotes and Orders).

248	

See ISE Mercury Rule 713, Supplementary Material .01. Specifically, the PMM’s
participation entitlement will be equal to the greater of: (i) the proportion of the total size
at the best price represented by the size of its quote, or (ii) 60% of the contracts to be
allocated if there is only one other Market Maker quotation at the NBBO or 40% if there
are two or more other Market Maker quotes at the NBBO. See ISE Mercury Rule 713,
Supplementary Material .01(b).

249	

See supra note 246 for the definition of Priority Customer.

250	

See ISE Mercury Rule 713, Supplementary Material .01.

54 


at the execution price, and it will not receive any further allocation of an order if it receives a
participation entitlement.251 Moreover, if the PMM has a quote at the NBBO, small size orders
(i.e., five or fewer contracts) will be allocated in full to the PMM.252
These participation entitlements for PMMs are consistent with provisions that the
Commission has approved for other exchanges.253 The Commission believes that these
entitlements are appropriately balanced by the obligations imposed on these classes of market
makers, as discussed in detail above.254 In particular, PMMs are subject to higher quoting
obligations than other Market Makers who are not eligible to receive the aforementioned
participation entitlements.255 Therefore, the Commission believes that the proposed rules
regarding participation entitlements are consistent with the Act, including Section 6(b)(5),256 in
that they are designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to remove impediments
to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system, and, in
general, to protect investors and the public interest.

251	

See id.

252	

See ISE Mercury Rule 713, Supplementary Material .01(c). The rule provides that ISE
Mercury will review the functioning of this provision quarterly to make sure that small
size orders do not account for more than 40% of the volume executed on ISE Mercury.
Id.

253	

See, e.g., ISE Gemini Order, supra note 27; MIAX Order, supra note 28.

254	

See supra Section II.D.3.b (discussing market maker obligations).

255	

For example, as discussed above, supra Section II.D.3.b., PMMs must provide continuous
two-sided quotes in each appointed option class.

256

15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5).

55 


ISE Mercury proposes to make available certain additional order processing and
matching features, largely based on features available on ISE. 257 Mechanisms that will be
utilized by ISE Mercury include: a Price Improvement Mechanism (which affords the
opportunity for price improvement after an auction for eligible orders above the NBBO);258 a
Facilitation Mechanism (which affords members an opportunity to cross orders after an auction
and provides the facilitating member the opportunity to receive 40% of the agency order);259 and
a Solicited Order Mechanism (which allows members representing agency orders the opportunity
to cross large size solicited orders after an auction).260 These mechanisms are consistent with
substantially similar mechanisms currently existing on other options exchanges, including
identical mechanisms on ISE and ISE Gemini.261
Members will be able to access ISE Mercury through a variety of electronic systems, and
non-members will be able to access ISE Mercury pursuant to sponsored access arrangements
with ISE Mercury members, pursuant to ISE Mercury rules.262 As noted above and provided
further below, prior to commencing operations, ISE Mercury also must become a participant in
the Linkage Plan.263 The manner in which ISE Mercury proposes to comply with the Linkage
257	

The primary difference between ISE Mercury’s order processing and matching features
and those of ISE previously approved by the Commission will be that ISE Mercury will
not accept complex orders.

258	

See ISE Mercury Rule 723. ISE Mercury will operate a pilot program whereby there will
be no minimum size requirements for orders to be eligible for the PIM. See Exhibit B to
the Form 1 Application; see also ISE Mercury Rule 723, Supplementary Material .03.

259

See ISE Mercury Rule 716(d). 


260

See ISE Mercury Rule 716(e). 


261

See ISE Rules 716 and 723; ISE Gemini Rules 716 and 723. 


262

See, e.g., ISE Mercury Rule 706, Supplementary Material .01. 


263

See ISE Mercury Rule 1900 Series, which incorporates by reference ISE Rule 1900 

Series.

56 


Plan is identical to the manner in which ISE and ISE Gemini comply with the Linkage Plan.
Specifically, to comply with the Linkage Plan, ISE Mercury, among other things, will prohibit its
members from effecting a transaction at a price that is inferior to the NBBO, unless an exception
applies.264 ISE Mercury will provide a centralized process for sending intermarket sweep orders
to other exchanges on behalf of Public Customer Orders.265 ISE Mercury will contract with one
or more unaffiliated brokers to route orders to other exchanges when necessary to comply with
the Linkage Plan. In circumstances where marketable orders are received when ISE Mercury is
not at the NBBO or orders are received that would lock or cross another market, they will be
exposed to ISE Mercury members for up to one second.266 If, after an order is exposed, such
order cannot be executed in full on ISE Mercury at the then-current NBBO or better and is
marketable, the lesser of the full displayed size of the protected bid(s) or protected offer(s) that
are priced better than the ISE Mercury’s quote or the balance of the order will be sent to a
contracted unaffiliated broker, and any additional balance of the order that is not marketable
against the then-current NBBO will be placed on the ISE Mercury book.267
The Commission believes that ISE Mercury’s proposed display, execution, and priority
rules are consistent with the Act. In particular, the Commission finds that the proposed rules are
consistent with Section 6(b)(5) of the Act,268 which, among other things, requires that the rules of
a national securities exchange be designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to
264

See ISE Mercury Rule 714(a); see also ISE Rule 714(a); ISE Gemini Rule 714(a).

265

See ISE Mercury Rule 1901, which incorporates by reference ISE Rule 1901.

266

See ISE Mercury Rule 1901, Supplementary Material .02, which incorporates by
reference ISE Rule 1901, Supplementary Material .02.

267

See id. Any additional balance of the order will be executed on ISE Mercury if it is
marketable.

268

15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5).

57 


foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating transactions in securities,
to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national
market system and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest, and to not permit
unfair discrimination between customers, issuers, brokers, or dealers. The Commission also
finds that the proposed rules are consistent with Section 6(b)(8) of the Act,269 which requires that
the rules of an exchange not impose any burden on competition that is not necessary or
appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. The trading rules of ISE Mercury are
substantially similar to the current ISE and ISE Gemini trading rules, which were approved at the
time each of ISE and ISE Gemini’s registration as a national securities exchange was granted270
or filed with and approved by the Commission (or otherwise became effective) pursuant to
Section 19(b) of the Act.271
5.

Section 11(a) of the Act

Section 11(a)(1) of the Act272 prohibits a member of a national securities exchange from
effecting transactions on that exchange for its own account, the account of an associated person,
or an account over which it or its associated person exercises investment discretion (collectively,
“covered accounts”), unless an exception applies. The Exchange has represented that it has
analyzed its rules proposed hereunder, and believes that they are consistent with Section 11(a) of

269

15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(8).

270

See ISE Order, supra note 157; ISE Gemini Order, supra note 27.

271

The Commission notes, however, that some of ISE Mercury’s rules differ in some
respects from the rules of ISE and ISE Gemini. For example, ISE Mercury is not
proposing to incorporate ISE’s rules relating to the trading of equity securities or to
incorporate any rules concerning the trading of complex or multi-legged orders at this
time.

272

15 U.S.C. 78k(a)(1).

58 


the Act and rules thereunder.273 For the reasons set forth below, based on ISE Mercury’s
representations, the Commission believes that ISE Mercury’s order execution algorithm,
including the Facilitation, Solicitation, Price Improvement Mechanism, and Customer Cross
processes, will allow members to meet the requirements of Rule 11a2-2(T) for executions on ISE
Mercury.
Rule 11a2-2(T) under the Act,274 known as the “effect versus execute” rule, provides
exchange members with an exemption from the Section 11(a)(1) prohibition. Rule 11a2-2(T)
permits an exchange member, subject to certain conditions, to effect transactions for covered
accounts by arranging for an unaffiliated member to execute the transactions on the exchange.
To comply with Rule 11a2-2(T)’s conditions, a member: (i) may not be associated with the
executing member; (ii) must transmit the order from off the exchange floor; (iii) may not
participate in the execution of the transaction once it has been transmitted to the member
performing the execution;275 and (iv) with respect to an account over which the member or an
associated person has investment discretion, neither the member nor its associated person may
retain any compensation in connection with effecting the transaction except as provided in the
Rule.

273	

See Letter from Michael Simon, General Counsel, Secretary and Chief Regulatory
Officer, ISE Mercury, to Brent J. Fields, Secretary, Commission, dated January 7, 2016
(“Exchange 11(a) Request Letter”).

274	

17 CFR 240.11a2-2(T).

275	

This prohibition also applies to associated persons. See 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(8). The
member may, however, participate in clearing and settling the transaction. See Securities
Exchange Act Release No. 14563 (March 14, 1978), 43 FR 11542 (March 17, 1978)
(regarding the NYSE’s Designated Order Turnaround System) (“1978 Release”).

59 


In a letter to the Commission,276 ISE Mercury requested that the Commission concur with
its conclusion that ISE Mercury members that enter orders through the ISE Mercury system,
including the Facilitation, Solicitation, Price Improvement Mechanism, and Customer Cross
processes, satisfy the requirements of Rule 11a2-2(T). For the reasons set forth below, the
Commission believes that ISE Mercury members that enter orders through the ISE Mercury
system, including through these processes, will satisfy the conditions of Rule 11a2-2(T).
Rule 11a2-2(T)’s first condition is that the order be executed by an exchange member
who is unaffiliated with the member initiating the order. The Commission has stated that the
requirement is satisfied when automated exchange facilities are used, such as the ISE Mercury
system, as long as the design of these systems ensures that members do not possess any special
or unique trading advantages over non-members in handling their orders after transmitting them
to the Exchange.277 ISE Mercury has represented that the design of the ISE Mercury system
ensures that no member has any special or unique trading advantage in the handling of its orders
after transmitting its orders to ISE Mercury.278 Based on the Exchange’s representation, the

276	

See Exchange 11(a) Request Letter, supra note 273.

277	

In considering the operation of automated execution systems operated by an exchange,
the Commission noted that while there is no independent executing exchange member,
the execution of an order is automatic once it has been transmitted into each system.
Because the design of these systems ensures that members do not possess any special or
unique trading advantages in handling their orders after transmitting them to the
exchange, the Commission has stated that executions obtained through these systems
satisfy the independent execution requirement of Rule 11a2-2(T). See Securities
Exchange Act Release No. 15533 (January 29, 1979), 44 FR 6084, 6086 n.25 (January
31, 1979) (File No. S7-613) (regarding the Amex Post Execution Reporting System, the
Amex Switching System, the Intermarket Trading System, the Multiple Dealer Trading
Facility of the Cincinnati Stock Exchange, the PCX Communications and Execution
System, and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange Automated Communications and
Execution System (“1979 Release”)).

278	

See Exchange 11(a) Request Letter, supra note 273.

60 


Commission believes that the ISE Mercury system is designed to enable its members to satisfy
this requirement.
Second, Rule 11a2-2(T) requires orders for covered accounts to be transmitted from off
the exchange floor. ISE Mercury will not have a physical trading floor, and like other automated
systems, will receive orders electronically through remote terminals or computer-to-computer
interfaces. In the context of other automated trading systems, the Commission has found that the
off-floor transmission requirement is met if a covered account order is transmitted from a remote
location directly to an exchange’s floor by electronic means.279 Orders sent to ISE Mercury,
regardless of where it executes within the ISE Mercury system, will be transmitted from remote
terminals directly to ISE Mercury by electronic means. Since the ISE Mercury trading system
receives all orders electronically, the Commission believes that the ISE Mercury system will
satisfy the off-floor transmission requirement.
Third, Rule 11a2-2(T) requires that the member and any associated person not participate
in the execution of its order once it has been transmitted to the member performing the
execution.280 ISE Mercury represents that at no time following the submission of an order is a

279	

See, e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 59154 (December 23, 2008) 73 FR
80468 (December 31, 2008) (SR-BSE-2008-48) (order approving proposed rules of BX);
49068, (January 13, 2004), 69 FR 2775 (January 20, 2004) (SR-BSE-2002-15)
(establishing, among other things, BOX as an options trading facility of BSE); 44983,
(October 25, 2001), 66 FR 55225 (November 1, 2001) (SR-PCX-00-25) (approving the
PCX’s use of the Archipelago Exchange as its equity trading facility); 29237 (May 24,
1991), 56 FR 24853 (May 31, 1991) (SR-NYSE-90-52 and SR-NYSE-90-53) (regarding
NYSE’s Off-Hours Trading Facility). See 1978 Release, supra note 275. See also 1979
Release, supra note 277.

280	

The member may cancel or modify the order, or modify the instructions for executing the
order, but only from off the Exchange floor. See 1978 Release, supra note 275, at 43 FR
11547. The Commission has stated that the non-participation requirement is satisfied
under such circumstances so long as such modifications or cancellations are also
transmitted from off the floor. See id. (stating that the “non-participation requirement

61 


member able to acquire control or influence over the result or timing of an order’s execution.
According to ISE Mercury, orders submitted through ISE Mercury systems meet the nonparticipation requirement. Trades on ISE Mercury will execute when orders or quotations on
ISE Mercury match one another based on their priority. Execution will not depend on the
participant, but rather upon what other orders are entered into the system at or around the same
time as the subject order, what orders are on ISE Mercury, or submitted as responses, and where
the order is ranked based on priority ranking algorithm.281 Accordingly, the Commission
believes that the non-participation requirement will be met when orders are executed
automatically through use of the ISE Mercury system.
Fourth, in the case of a transaction effected for an account with respect to which the
initiating member or an associated person thereof exercises investment discretion, neither the
initiating member nor any associated person thereof may retain any compensation in connection
with effecting the transaction, unless the person authorized to transact business for the account
has expressly provided otherwise by written contract referring to Section 11(a) of the Act and
Rule 11a2-2(T).282 ISE Mercury members trading for covered accounts over which they exercise

does not prevent initiating members from canceling or modifying orders (or the
instructions pursuant to which the initiating member wishes orders to be executed) after
the orders have been transmitted to the executing member, provided that any such
instructions are also transmitted from off the floor”).
281	

See Exchange 11(a) Request Letter, supra note 273.

282	

17 CFR 240.11a2-2(T)(a)(2)(iv). In addition, Rule 11a2-2(T)(d) requires a member or
associated person authorized by written contract to retain compensation, in connection
with effecting transactions for covered accounts over which such member or associated
person thereof exercises investment discretion, to furnish at least annually to the person
authorized to transact business for the account a statement setting forth the total amount
of compensation retained by the member or any associated person thereof in connection
with effecting transactions for the account during the period covered by the statement.
See 17 CFR 240.11a2-2(T)(d). See also 1978 Release, supra note 275, at 43 FR 11548
(stating “[t]he contractual and disclosure requirements are designed to assure that

62 


investment discretion must comply with this condition in order to rely on the rule’s exemption.283
E.	

Discipline and Oversight of Members

As noted above, one prerequisite for the Commission’s grant of an exchange’s
application for registration is that a proposed exchange must be so organized and have the
capacity to be able to carry out the purposes of the Act.284 Specifically, an exchange must be
able to enforce compliance by its members and persons associated with its members with the Act
and the rules and regulations thereunder and the rules of the exchange.285
ISE Mercury rules codify ISE Mercury’s disciplinary jurisdiction over its members,
thereby facilitating its ability to enforce its members’ compliance with its rules and the federal
securities laws.286 ISE Mercury’s rules permit it to sanction members for violations of the Act
and the rules and regulation thereunder and ISE Mercury’s rules by, among other things,
expelling or suspending members; limiting members’ activities, functions, or operations; fining
or censuring members; suspending or barring a person from being associated with a member; or
any other fitting sanction in accordance with ISE Mercury rules.287
ISE Mercury’s disciplinary and oversight functions will be administered in accordance
with Chapter 16 of the ISE Mercury rules, which incorporates by reference Chapter 16 of ISE
rules, governing disciplinary jurisdiction. Unless delegated to another SRO pursuant to the terms

accounts electing to permit transaction-related compensation do so only after deciding
that such arrangements are suitable to their interests”).
283	

See Exchange 11(a) Request Letter, supra note 273.

284	

See 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(1).

285	

See id.

286	

See ISE Mercury Rule 1600(a) (which incorporates by reference ISE Rule 1600(a)).

287	

See id. See also ISE Gemini Rule 1600(a); MIAX Rule 1000; BOX Exchange Rule
12000 Series (containing identical provisions).

63 


of an effective 17d-2 Plan,288 ISE Mercury regulatory staff (including regulatory staff of another
SRO that may be acting on ISE Mercury’s behalf pursuant to a regulatory services agreement)
will, among other things, investigate potential securities laws violations and initiate charges
pursuant to ISE Mercury rules.289
Upon a finding of probable cause of a violation within the disciplinary jurisdiction of ISE
Mercury and where further proceedings are warranted,290 ISE Mercury will conduct a hearing on
disciplinary matters before a professional hearing officer291 and two members of the Business
Conduct Committee292 (“Panel”).293 The ISE Mercury member (or its associated person) or the

288	

See supra notes 144-146 and accompanying text (concerning the multiparty 17d-2 Plans
to which ISE Mercury has committed to join).

289	

See ISE Mercury Rule 1602 (which incorporates by reference ISE Rule 1602). As noted
above, ISE Mercury has entered into an RSA with FINRA and a FMA with ISE under
which FINRA and ISE, respectively, will perform certain regulatory functions on behalf
of ISE Mercury. See ISE Mercury Rule 1615 (which incorporates by reference ISE Rule
1615).

290	

See ISE Mercury Rule 1604 (which incorporates by reference ISE Rule 1604). If there is
probable cause for finding a violation, ISE Mercury’s regulatory staff will prepare a
statement of charges including the allegations and specifying the provisions of the Act
and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, provisions of the ISE Mercury
Constitution or rules, or interpretations or resolutions of which such acts are in violation.
The CRO must approve the statement of charges.

291	

See ISE Mercury Rule 1606 (which incorporates by reference ISE Rule 1606); see also
ISE Mercury Rule 1615, Supplemental Material .01 (which incorporates by reference ISE
Rule 1615, Supplemental Material .01).

292	

Pursuant to a Resolution of the ISE Mercury Board, the President and CEO shall
establish ISE Mercury’s Business Conduct Committee, pursuant to a charter. The
Committee shall consist of no more than 21 persons, all of whom are employees of
members of ISE Mercury, representing members as follows: at least three persons shall
represent PMMs; at least three persons shall represent CMMs that are not also PMMs;
and at least four persons shall represent EAMs that neither are, nor are affiliated with, a
PMM or CMM. See Exhibit L to the Form 1 Application.

293	

See ISE Mercury Rule 1606 (which incorporates by reference ISE Rule 1606). A Panel
may make a determination without a hearing and may impose a penalty as to violations
that the member or associated person has admitted or has failed to answer or that

64 


ISE Mercury regulatory staff may petition for review of the Panel’s decision by the ISE Mercury
Board.294 Any review will be conducted by the ISE Mercury Board or a committee thereof
composed of at least three of its directors (whose decision must be ratified by the ISE Mercury
Board).295 In addition, the ISE Mercury Board on its own motion may order review of a
disciplinary decision.296 The ISE Mercury Board may affirm, reverse, or modify, in whole or in
part, the Panel’s decision.297 The decision of the ISE Mercury Board will be in writing and will
be final.298
Appeals from any determination that impacts access to ISE Mercury, such as termination
or suspension of membership, will be instituted under, and governed by, the provisions in
Chapter 17 of the ISE Mercury rules, which incorporate by reference the provisions in Chapter
17 of ISE rules. ISE Mercury’s Chapter 17 applies to persons economically aggrieved by any of
the following actions of ISE Mercury including, but not limited to: (a) denial of an application to
become a member; (b) barring a person from becoming associated with a member; and (c)

otherwise do not appear to be in dispute. See ISE Mercury Rule 1608 (which
incorporates by reference ISE Rule 1608). A member or associated person alleged to
have committed a disciplinary violation may submit a written offer of settlement to the
Panel, or CRO if a Panel is not yet been appointed, which the Panel or CRO may accept
or reject. See ISE Mercury Rule 1609 (which incorporates by reference ISE Rule 1609).
If the second offer of settlement is rejected (such decision is not subject to review), a
hearing will proceed in accordance with ISE Mercury Rule 1606 (which incorporates by
reference ISE Rule 1606). See also ISE Mercury Rule 1609 (which incorporates by
reference ISE Rule 1609).
294

See ISE Mercury Rule 1610 (which incorporates by reference ISE Rule 1610).

295

See id.

296

See id.

297

See id.

298

See id.

65 


limiting or prohibiting services provided by the ISE Mercury or services of any exchange
member.299
Any person aggrieved by an action of ISE Mercury within the scope of the Chapter 17
may file a written application to be heard within thirty days300 after such action has been
taken.301 Applications for hearing and review will be referred to the Business Conduct
Committee, which will appoint a hearing panel of no less than three members of such
Committee.302 The decision of the hearing panel made pursuant to Chapter17 of the ISE
Mercury rules is subject to review by the ISE Mercury Board, either on its own motion, or upon
written request submitted by the applicant or the President of ISE Mercury.303 The review will
be conducted by the ISE Mercury Board or a committee of the ISE Mercury Board composed of
at least three directors.304

299	

See ISE Mercury Rule 1700 (which incorporates by reference ISE Rule 1700). As noted
above, ISE Mercury has entered into an RSA with FINRA and a FMA with ISE under
which FINRA and ISE, respectively, will perform certain regulatory functions on behalf
of ISE Mercury. For example, FINRA may perform some or all of the functions
specified in Chapter 17 of ISE Mercury rules. See supra notes 148-149 and
accompanying text. See also ISE Mercury Rule 1706 (which incorporates by reference
ISE Rule 1706).

300	

An applicant may file for an extension of time within thirty days of ISE Mercury’s action.
An application for such an extension will be ruled upon by the Chairman of the Business
Conduct Committee and is not subject to appeal. See ISE Mercury Rule 1701 (which
incorporates by reference ISE Rule 1701).

301	

See ISE Mercury Rule 1701 (which incorporates by reference ISE Rule 1701).

302	

See ISE Mercury Rule 1702 (which incorporates by reference ISE Rule 1702).

303	

See ISE Mercury Rule 1704 (which incorporates by reference ISE Rule 1704). The ISE
Mercury Board, or a committee of the ISE Mercury Board, will have sole discretion to
grant or deny either request. See id.

304	

See ISE Mercury Rule 1704 (which incorporates by reference ISE Rule 1704). The ISE
Mercury Board or its designated committee may affirm, reverse, or modify in whole or in
part, the decision of the hearing panel. The decision of the ISE Mercury Board or its

66 


The Commission finds that ISE Mercury’s proposed disciplinary and oversight rules and
structure, as well as its proposed process for persons economically aggrieved by certain ISE
Mercury actions, are consistent with the requirements of Sections 6(b)(6) and 6(b)(7) of the
Act305 in that they provide fair procedures for the disciplining of members and persons associated
with members. The Commission further finds that the proposed ISE Mercury rules, which
incorporate by reference ISE rules, are designed to provide ISE Mercury with the ability to
comply, and with the authority to enforce compliance by its members and persons associated
with its members, with the provisions of the Act, the rules and regulations thereunder, and the
rules of ISE Mercury.306 The Commission notes that ISE Mercury’s proposed disciplinary and
oversight rules and structures are similar to the rules of other exchanges.307
F.	

Listing Requirements

ISE Mercury does not intend to offer original listings when it commences operations.
Instead, ISE Mercury will list and trade only standardized option contracts that are listed on other
national securities exchanges and cleared by the Options Clearing Corporation.308 ISE
Mercury’s listing rules, including the criteria for the underlying securities of the options to be
traded, incorporate by reference all of the listing rules of ISE.309

designated committee will be in writing and will be final. See ISE Mercury Rule 1704
(which incorporates by reference ISE Rule 1704).
305	

15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(6) and (b)(7), respectively.

306	

See Section 6(b)(1) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(1).

307	

See, e.g., ISE Gemini Order, supra note 27; MIAX Order, supra note 28; and BOX Order,
supra note 37.

308	

See Exhibit H to the Form 1 Application.

309	

See ISE Mercury Rule 500 Series (which incorporates by reference ISE Rule 500 Series)
(Securities Traded on the Exchange). See also ISE Gemini Rule 500 Series; MIAX Rule
400 Series; and BOX Rule 5000 Series.

67 


The Commission finds that ISE Mercury’s proposed initial and continued listing rules are
consistent with the Act, including Section 6(b)(5),310 in that they are designed to protect investors
and the public interest, prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, and promote just
and equitable principles of trade. Before beginning operation, ISE Mercury will need to become
a participant in the Plan for the Purpose of Developing and Implementing Procedures Designed
to Facilitate the Listing and Trading of Standardized Options Submitted Pursuant to Section
11A(a)(3)(B) of the Act (“OLPP”).311 In addition, before beginning operation, ISE Mercury will
need to become a participant in the Options Clearing Corporation.
G.

Limitation on Liability

ISE Mercury proposes to adopt a rule providing that, in general, ISE Mercury will not be
liable for any losses arising from the use of exchange facilities, systems, or equipment.312 The
rule also states that ISE Mercury may compensate its members for certain identified losses
resulting directly from the malfunction of ISE Mercury’s physical equipment, devices and/or
programming.313 Under the rule, ISE Mercury’s aggregated payments for all claims on a single
trading day would not exceed $250,000, and this amount will be allocated proportionally among
all claims if the claims arising on a single trading day exceeded $250,000.
The Commission finds that ISE Mercury’s proposed rule regarding limitation of liability
is consistent with the requirements of Section 6(b)(5)314 of the Act in that it is designed to
310

15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5). 


311

15 U.S.C. 78k-1(a)(3)(B). 


312

See proposed Rules of ISE Mercury, Chapter 7, Rule 705, Exhibit B. 


313

NASDAQ and NYSE Arca also provide that the exchanges may compensate their 

members for certain identified losses resulting from the malfunction of their respective
systems. See NASDAQ Rule 4626; NYSE Arca (Options) Rule 14.2.

314

15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5).

68 


promote just and equitable principles of trade and to not permit unfair discrimination between
customers, issuers, brokers, or dealers. The Commission notes that ISE Mercury’s proposed
limitation of liability is similar to the limitations of other exchanges, including ISE and ISE
Gemini.315
H.

Comment

As noted above, the Commission received one comment letter regarding the Form 1
Application. In its letter, Wolverine recommends that the Commission disapprove the Form 1
Application.316 In particular, Wolverine asserts that an approval of a new options exchange
would further fragment existing options liquidity and hinder best execution for market
participants.317 Additionally, Wolverine argues that the creation of another options exchange
would impose additional costs on the industry without providing a sufficient benefit.318 For
example, Wolverine states that approval of a new options exchange would impose additional cost
on the industry through the assessment of Options Regulatory Fees (“ORFs”).319
In response, ISE Mercury provides that the “comment letter does not raise any new issues
unique to the creation of ISE Mercury.”320 The Exchange asserts that new options exchanges are
necessary “to provide customers with additional choices related to fees and market structure.”321
315

The proposed rule is identical to ISE Rule 705 and ISE Gemini Rule 705. See also
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 57675 (April 17, 2008), 73 FR 21996 (April 23,
2008) (noting that the approved ISE rule, as approved, was generally similar to
NASDAQ Rule 4626(b) and NYSE Arca Rules 14.2(b) and (c)).

316

See Wolverine Letter, supra note 5.

317

See id.

318

See id.

319

See id.

320

See ISE Mercury Response Letter, supra note 6.

321

See id.

69 


The Exchange also highlighted that “there are much fewer options exchanges in comparison to
the many registered equity exchanges, ECNs, and ATSs, and this is partly why there continues to
be an influx of new options exchanges.”322 Finally, ISE Mercury notes that ORFs are applied
consistently across the options industry (not specific to ISE Mercury) and are designed to make
options regulatory structure stronger.323 The Exchange also emphasizes that if ISE Mercury
determines to propose an ORF for its market, Wolverine and all other market participants will
have an opportunity to comment on such proposal at that time.324
The Commission believes that ISE Mercury has sufficiently addressed the principal
concerns raised by the commenter. The Commission acknowledges the concerns that were
raised by the commenter regarding possible impacts resulting from potential market
fragmentation that may result from the approval of the Form 1 Application. However, the
Commission also notes that the commenter did not identify any specific Exchange Act provision
or rule or regulation thereunder that would be inconsistent with the approval of the Form 1
Application. Although the Commission continuously considers issues related to market structure
– including the issues raised by the commenter – pursuant to Sections 6 and 19 of the Exchange
Act, the Commission must grant an application for registration as a national securities exchange
if it finds that the requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder
with respect to the applicant are satisfied.325 For the reasons discussed throughout the order, the
Commission believes that these requirements have been met. Finally, the Commission also notes

322

See id.

323

See id.

324

See id.

325

See 15 U.S.C. 78f(b); 15 U.S.C. 78s(a)(1).

70 


that the commenter’s concern regarding an increased ORF is not ripe for consideration until ISE
Mercury proposes such a separate fee.
III.	

Exemption from Section 19(b) of the Act With Regard to ISE, CBOE, New York Stock
Exchange LLC (“NYSE”), and FINRA Rules Incorporated by Reference
ISE Mercury proposes to incorporate by reference certain ISE, CBOE, NYSE and FINRA

rules.326 Thus, for certain ISE Mercury rules, ISE Mercury members will comply with an ISE
Mercury rule by complying with the referenced ISE, CBOE, NYSE or FINRA rule.
In connection with the proposal to incorporate ISE, CBOE, NYSE and FINRA rules by
reference, ISE Mercury requests, pursuant to Rule 240.0-12 under the Act,327 an exemption
under Section 36 of the Act from the rule filing requirements of Section 19(b) of the Act for
changes to the ISE Mercury rules that are effected solely by virtue of a change to a crossreferenced ISE, CBOE, NYSE or FINRA rule.328 ISE Mercury proposes to incorporate by
reference categories of rules, rather than individual rules within a category, that are not trading
rules. In addition, ISE Mercury agrees to provide written notice to its members whenever

326	

Specifically, ISE Mercury proposes to incorporate by reference the following ISE Rules:
Chapter 4 (Business Conduct), Chapter 5 (Securities Traded on the Exchange), Chapter 6
(Doing Business with the Public), Chapter 10 (Closing Transactions), Chapter 11
(Exercises and Deliveries), Chapter 12 (Margins), Chapter 13 (Net Capital
Requirements), Chapter 14 (Records, Reports and Audits), Chapter 15 (Summary
Suspension), Chapter 16 (Discipline), Chapter 17 (Hearings and Review), Chapter 18
(Arbitration), Chapter 19 (Order Protection; Locked and Crossed Markets), Chapter 20
(Index Rules), Chapter 22 (Rate-Modified Foreign Currency Options Rules). The
following rules are cross-referenced in the ISE rules: ISE Rule 1202 (Margin
Requirements) cross-references the same CBOE and NYSE rules that may be in effect
from time to time; ISE Rule 1615 (Disciplinary Functions) cross-references the FINRA
Code of Procedure and ISE Rule 1800 cross-references the 12000 and 13000 Series of the
FINRA Manual and FINRA Rule 2268.

327	

17 CFR 240.0-12.

328	

See Letter from Michael Simon, General Counsel, Secretary and Chief Regulatory
Officer, ISE Mercury, to Brent J. Fields, Secretary, Commission, dated June 26, 2015.

71 


FINRA, ISE, CBOE or NYSE proposes a change to a cross-referenced rule329 and whenever any
such proposed changes are approved by the Commission or otherwise become effective.330
Using the authority under Section 36 of the Act, the Commission previously exempted
certain SROs from the requirement to file proposed rule changes under Section 19(b) of the
Act.331 The Commission is hereby granting ISE Mercury’s request for exemption, pursuant to
Section 36 of the Act, from the rule filing requirements of Section 19(b) of the Act with respect
to the rules that ISE Mercury proposes to incorporate by reference. The exemption is
conditioned upon ISE Mercury providing written notice to ISE Mercury members whenever
FINRA, ISE, CBOE or NYSE proposes to change an incorporated by reference rule and when
the Commission approves any such changes. The Commission believes that the exemption is
appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors because it will
promote more efficient use of Commission’s and SROs’ resources by avoiding duplicative rule
filings based on simultaneous changes to identical rule text sought to be implemented by more
than one SRO.
IV.	

Conclusion
IT IS ORDERED that the application of ISE Mercury for registration as a national

securities exchange be, and it hereby is, granted.

329	

See id.

330	

ISE Mercury will provide such notice through a posting on the same website location
where ISE Mercury posts its own rule filings pursuant to Rule 19b-4 under the Act,
within the required time frame. The website posting will include a link to the location on
the FINRA, ISE, CBOE or NYSE website where FINRA, ISE, CBOE or NYSE’s
proposed rule change is posted. See id.

331	

See, e.g., BATS Order, supra note 27, C2 Order, supra note 159, Nasdaq Order, supra
note 27, and NOM Approval Order, supra note 154.

72 


IT IS FURTHERED ORDERED that operation of ISE Mercury is conditioned on the
satisfaction of the requirements below:
A.

Participation in National Market System Plans Relating to Options Trading. ISE

Mercury must join: (1) The Plan for the Reporting of Consolidated Options Last Sale Reports
and Quotation Information (Options Price Reporting Authority); (2) the OLPP; (3) the Linkage
Plan; and (4) the Plan of the Options Regulatory Surveillance Authority.
B.

Participation in Multiparty Rule 17d-2 Plans. ISE Mercury must become a party

to the multiparty Rule 17d-2 agreements concerning options sales practice regulation and market
surveillance.
C.

Participation in the Options Clearing Corporation. ISE Mercury must become an

Options Clearing Corporation participant exchange.
D.

Participation in the Intermarket Surveillance Group. ISE Mercury must join the

Intermarket Surveillance Group.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED, pursuant to Section 36 of the Act,332 that ISE Mercury
shall be exempted from the rule filing requirements of Section 19(b) of the Act with respect to
the FINRA, ISE, CBOE and NYSE rules that ISE Mercury proposes to incorporate by reference,
subject to the conditions specified in this order that ISE Mercury provide written notice to ISE
Mercury members whenever FINRA, ISE, CBOE or NYSE propose to change an incorporated
by reference rule and when the Commission approves any such changes.
By the Commission. 

Robert W. Errett 

Deputy Secretary


332

15 U.S.C. 78mm.

73 


