UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77396 / March 17, 2016
Admin. Proc. File No. 3-15869

In the Matter of the Application of
THE DRATEL GROUP, INC.
and
WILLIAM M. DRATEL
for Review of Action Taken by
FINRA

OPINION OF THE COMMISSION
REGISTERED SECURITIES ASSOCIATION – REVIEW OF DISCIPLINARY
PROCEEDINGS
Grounds for Remedial Action
Fraud
Recordkeeping Violations
Conduct Inconsistent with Just and Equitable Principles of Trade
Former member firm and its principal engaged in a fraudulent cherry-picking scheme,
falsified and backdated order tickets, time stamped blank order tickets, failed to identify
customer names on order tickets before execution, and discarded order tickets. Held,
FINRA’s findings of violations and imposition of sanctions are sustained.
APPEARANCES:
William M. Dratel, pro se.
Alan Lawhead and Andrew J. Love, for FINRA.

2
Appeal filed: May 12, 2014
Last brief received: August 22, 2014
I. Introduction
The Dratel Group, Inc. (“DGI”), a former FINRA member firm, and William M. Dratel
(“Dratel”), DGI’s principal and a formerly registered person (collectively, “Applicants”), appeal
from a FINRA disciplinary action that found, in part, that Applicants engaged in a fraudulent
trade allocation scheme known as “cherry picking,” falsified and backdated order tickets, time
stamped blank order tickets, and failed to identify customer names on order tickets until after
execution.1 For these violations, FINRA expelled DGI from its membership; barred Dratel in all
capacities; and ordered Dratel to disgorge $489,000, plus interest, and to pay certain costs. 2
The charges against Applicants stem from Dratel’s use of omnibus firm accounts to day
and overnight trade for both himself and his customers from October 2005 through December
1

Dratel entered the securities industry in September 1977 and, with his father and another
business partner, founded DGI as a registered broker-dealer in 1980. Dratel became DGI’s sole
owner in August 1999 and began operating, managing, and supervising all aspects of DGI’s
business, including acting as the firm’s sole broker for its customer accounts. Dratel was DGI’s
Chief Compliance Officer, Anti-Money Laundering Compliance Officer, and Financial
Operations Officer. He was registered with FINRA as a General Securities Representative,
General Securities Principal, and Financial and Operations Principal, but neither DGI nor Dratel
are currently registered. DGI began operating under a waiver of the two-principal requirement in
2002. See NASD Rule 1021(e) (requiring members, other than sole proprietorships, to have “at
least two officers or partners who are registered as principals with respect to each aspect of the
member’s investment banking and securities business”); NASD Rule 9610 (providing a means
for applicants to request a waiver or exemption from the two-principal requirement).
2

FINRA also found that Applicants failed to establish, maintain, and enforce supervisory
procedures adequate to prevent post-execution allocation of trades and ensure timely and
accurate completion of customer order tickets and that they failed to update certain customer
account information periodically. DGI also opened new customer accounts without requiring
customers to show photographic identification and failed to independently test its anti-money
laundering program. We do not address these findings because FINRA did not impose sanctions
for these violations. See Dep’t of Enforcement v. The Dratel Group, Inc., Complaint No.
2008012925001, 2014 WL 1803377, at *31 (May 2, 2014). Under Exchange Act Section 19(e),
we review only final disciplinary sanctions imposed by self-regulatory organizations. See 15
U.S.C. § 78s(e)(1) (providing that the Commission shall review an action in which a selfregulatory organization, such as FINRA, imposes “any final disciplinary sanction” on any
member or person associated with a member if an aggrieved person timely files an application
for review).
In addition, Applicants did not challenge these findings in their application for review or
their opening brief—their challenges appear in their reply brief. Under Commission Rule of
Practice 450(b), reply briefs must be confined to matters in opposition briefs of other parties, and
as such, we do not consider these arguments.

3
2006.3 Dratel purchased securities (or initiated short positions) in the omnibus accounts, but
waited to allocate those trades until after he saw how they performed. Applicants directed a
higher proportion of profitable trades to Dratel’s personal account and a smaller proportion of
profitable trades to customers’ accounts—thereby “cherry picking” the best trades for Dratel.
Applicants furthered this scheme by failing to keep accurate and current records of their trades.
We find that, by engaging in this conduct, Applicants willfully violated the antifraud and
recordkeeping provisions of the federal securities laws and NASD Conduct Rules and that
FINRA’s imposition of sanctions is neither excessive nor oppressive.4 Our findings are based on
an independent review of the record.
II. Facts
Cherry picking is a practice in which securities professionals allocate profitable trades to
a preferred account (like their own) and less profitable or unprofitable trades to a non-preferred
account (like a customer’s). To cherry pick a trade, a securities professional typically originates
the trade in an omnibus firm account, without identifying the underlying customer or proprietary
account for which the trade was placed, and then allocates the trade to an account after observing
how that transaction performed. By directing the more profitable trades toward preferred
accounts, a securities professional is effectively stealing from one customer to enrich himself or
other preferred customers.5
Determining whether cherry picking has occurred often requires drawing inferences from
a pattern of behavior, irregularities, and trading data. Cherry picking is difficult to detect. By
self-dealing occasionally and skimming small amounts of customer profits, disadvantaged
customers continue to earn an overall profit (although less of one), making it easier to avoid
regulatory or customer scrutiny.

3

For simplicity, this opinion occasionally refers to day and overnight trades as “day
trades.”
4

On July 26, 2007, the Commission approved a proposed rule change filed by NASD to
amend NASD’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation to reflect its name change to Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc., or FINRA, in connection with the consolidation of NASD
and the member-regulation, enforcement, and arbitration functions of the New York Stock
Exchange. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 56146, 2007 WL 5185331 (July 26, 2007).
Because the conduct at issue occurred before this date, NASD Conduct Rules apply to this case.
5

Alex Raskolnikov, Irredeemably Inefficient Acts: A Threat to Markets, Firms, and the
FISC, 102 GEO. L.J. 1133, 1152 (2014) (“Cherry-picking—a broker’s trading alongside her
customers while taking advantage of the cheapest execution prices and burdening the customers
with the least favorable ones—comes close to outright theft.”).

4
A. Beginning in October 2005, the proportion of profitable trades in Dratel's own
account increased substantially while the proportion of profitable trades in certain
discretionary accounts fell.
During the relevant period, Dratel was DGI’s sole owner and broker. He placed trades in
both his personal and customer accounts, including about seventy customer accounts over which
he had discretionary trading authority.6 Although the majority of Dratel’s trades for customers
were long-term investments, Dratel day and overnight traded in about forty of the customer
accounts over which he had discretionary authority, and the majority of the trades in Dratel’s
personal account were day trades. At issue here are the twenty-five discretionary accounts in
which Dratel day and overnight traded most actively (the “Discretionary Customers”).7 Many of
these Discretionary Customers were Dratel’s friends or family and were long-term DGI
customers.
Dratel’s general practice was to place all trades through two omnibus firm accounts.8
Dratel, working in DGI’s East Hampton, New York office, initiated all day and overnight trades
by calling or sending a fax to one of two staff members who worked in DGI’s Manhattan office.
He provided the stock’s name and quantity to trade, which the staff then entered into a system
maintained by DGI’s clearing broker, Oppenheimer & Co., called the Order Management
System (“OMS”).9 Some of these day and overnight trades were for a single account (either his
or a customer’s) and some were “bunched” trades that Dratel placed for multiple accounts
simultaneously, including his personal account and customer accounts.
The Manhattan staff member who worked as DGI’s sales assistant had primary
responsibility for entering trades into OMS. After she entered the trades into OMS, she typically
called Dratel to give him the price and order identification number as trades were executed.
Dratel then used this information to complete a paper OMS order ticket that reflected the order’s
entry and execution time. The OMS ticket reflected only the purchase or sale in the firm’s

6

Dratel had one regular trading account and several individual retirement accounts at DGI.
The trading at issue here occurred primarily in Dratel’s regular trading account.
7

FINRA excluded the other fifteen discretionary accounts from its analysis because Dratel
day traded only one or two times during the relevant period.
8

Dratel used one of two firm omnibus accounts: an “Average Price Listed Account,”
which he used for securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange, and an “OTC Principal
Account,” which he used for Nasdaq or over-the-counter securities. Broker-dealers often use
average price accounts as a way to buy or sell large amounts of a given security for their
customers in small increments throughout a trading session. The broker-dealer then typically
transfers the accumulated long or short position to one or more individual accounts at a volumeweighted average price.
9

An introducing broker, like DGI, deals directly with the public and originates customer
accounts, and a clearing broker, like Oppenheimer, handles the mechanics of clearance and
settlement of trades in those accounts. See VanCook v. SEC, 653 F.3d 130, 133 (2d Cir. 2011).

5
omnibus accounts and did not reflect the account to which the trade ultimately would be
allocated.
DGI used a separate Oppenheimer system, called FiNet, to allocate trades from the
omnibus accounts to customer accounts. Dratel testified that for trades involving only his
account or a single customer account, his long-standing practice was to time stamp blank paper
FiNet order tickets at the same time that he time stamped the paper OMS tickets. Then,
sometime later in the day, he faxed a completed FiNet ticket showing the account allocation to
the staff in the Manhattan office. For trades involving multiple accounts, Dratel instructed the
staff in Manhattan to time-stamp a blank FiNet ticket at the same time that he placed the initial
OMS order, but to wait to complete the FiNet ticket until he sent them allocation instructions.10
The staff entered the allocation information from the paper FiNet tickets into the FiNet system.
The FiNet system did not automatically record the time that a trade was entered into it, meaning
that DGI staff could enter allocations anytime the system was open, including after the market
had closed.11 Oppenheimer used the information in FiNet to generate trade confirmations for
DGI and its customers.
Dratel admitted that he sometimes waited until four or five o’clock before transmitting
allocation instructions to the staff in the Manhattan office. The sales assistant testified that
Dratel generally provided her with allocation instructions after a trade had been executed, and
often provided her those instructions near or after the close of the market. The allocation
instructions that Applicants produced during FINRA’s investigation reflect this practice.
Applicants produced allocation instructions for approximately half of Dratel’s day trades, and all
of these instructions had been faxed to DGI’s Manhattan office after Dratel had closed the
particular trade position.
In the first nine months of 2005, the proportion of profitable day and overnight trades in
the Discretionary Customer accounts and Dratel’s own account was 46% and 40%, respectively.
Beginning in October 2005, the success rate of the day and overnight trades in the two types of
accounts was no longer consistent. From October 2005 to December 2006, only 28% of the day
and overnight trades in the Discretionary Customers’ accounts were profitable, while 83% of the
trades in Dratel’s account were profitable.

10

The sales assistant also time stamped blank FiNet order tickets after completing the OMS
tickets. Based on her training by two other DGI employees, she would ensure that both tickets
had the same time stamp by rolling back the firm’s time-stamp machine to match the time on the
FiNet ticket to the time on the previously stamped OMS order ticket. Although the two
employees both denied telling the sales assistant to roll back the time stamp, the Hearing Panel
found the sales assistant’s account to be “very credible,” noting that, “[u]nlike [the other two
employees], [the sales assistant] was not a long-time employee of DGI. Further, she appeared to
have no animosity toward Dratel.” We find no evidence in the record that provides a basis for
overturning this finding. See infra note 34 (noting that we generally accord deference to the fact
finder’s credibility determinations).
11

FiNet remained open for several hours after the market closed.

6
Dratel day and overnight traded the same stock, on the same day, for both himself and his
Discretionary Customers 27 times in 2006. Dratel received a greater profit or smaller loss than
his customers did in 21 out of 27 (78%) of those cases.
B. The higher proportion of profitable trades in Dratel’s personal account coincided
with an increase in his day-trading activity despite his reduced buying power.
The higher proportion of profitable trades in Dratel’s own account in late 2005 and 2006,
and the decrease in the proportion of profitable trades in the Discretionary Customers’ accounts,
coincided with an increase in Dratel’s day-trading activity despite a smaller amount of equity, or
buying power, in his personal account. Beginning in October 2005, Dratel increased the number
of day and overnight trades he placed for both his Discretionary Customers’ accounts and his
own account.
Between January and September 2005, Dratel executed an average of 19.2 day and
overnight trades per month in the Discretionary Customers’ accounts and an average of 2.7 day
and overnight trades per month in his own account. In contrast, between October 1, 2005, and
December 31, 2006, Dratel executed an average of 82.9 day and overnight trades per month in
his Discretionary Customers’ accounts—an increase of more than 330% over the first nine
months of 2005. He executed an average of 33.4 day and overnight trades per month in his own
account—an increase of more than 1,130% over the first nine months of 2005. In 2006 alone,
Dratel executed approximately 1,200 day and overnight trades in the Discretionary Customers’
accounts and approximately 501 day and overnight trades for his personal account. By
comparison, between 1999 and 2004, the highest volume of day trades in the Discretionary
Customers’ accounts was in 2001, when Dratel made 410 day trades, and the highest number of
day trades in his personal account was in 2002, when Dratel made 411 day trades.
This increased trading volume in Dratel’s own account occurred despite a drop in the
equity in that account. Although Dratel had less buying power in his account, Dratel leveraged
the buying power of his customers’ accounts by placing his trades through the firm’s omnibus
accounts. As a result, Dratel placed more trades with less of his own money at risk. Between
1999 and 2002, Dratel’s personal account traded at a little more than three times equity.12 In
2003, Dratel’s personal account traded at approximately five and a half times equity, and his

12

Between 1999 and 2002, the average equity in Dratel’s personal account was
approximately $510,364 per month, while the monthly average purchase volume was
approximately $1,614,376 (thus he was trading at a little more than three times equity).

7
account traded at a little more than one times equity in 2004.13 But in 2006, Dratel’s account
traded at approximately 71 times equity.14
In 2006, Dratel conducted his personal trades through the omnibus accounts, although it
would have been more cost effective to initiate orders through his personal account. 15 Dratel did
not disclose to customers that he was directing a higher proportion of profitable trades away
from their accounts to benefit himself. In fact, Dratel testified that, unless it “came up,” he did
not disclose to his customers that he was trading for both his own and customers’ accounts at the
same time, or that he waited until after trades were executed before allocating these trades
between his own account and customers’ accounts.
Further, Dratel testified that he did not think day trading for himself and his customers
through the same omnibus account, at the same time, created an issue because he “knew exactly
who was . . . buying what.” But Dratel acknowledged at the hearing that his personal trades in
the same stocks as his customers created at least “the appearance of conflict and makes for all
sorts of problems.” Dratel relied on the fact that his customers trusted him. As he put it at the
hearing, “[m]y customers trust me. That’s why they give me discretion.”
C. The increased proportion of profitable trades in Dratel’s own account occurred
after he experienced financial difficulties.
The increased proportion of profitable trades in Dratel’s own account followed financial
losses that he suffered starting in the early 2000s. In 2002 and 2003, Dratel realized total
investment losses of $34,439 in his personal trading account and $252,173 in his IRA accounts.

13

In 2003, Dratel’s average monthly account equity was approximately $132,325, with an
average monthly purchase volume of $733,084 (thus trading at approximately five and one-half
times equity). In 2004, Dratel’s average monthly account equity was approximately $152,203,
with an average monthly purchase volume of approximately $177,664 (a little more than one
times equity).
14

In the last three months of 2005, Dratel’s average monthly account equity dropped to
approximately $60,718, while his average monthly purchase volume rose to approximately
$921,568 (approximately 15 times equity). And in 2006, Dratel’s average monthly account
equity was approximately $27,867 per month, while his average monthly purchase volume was
$1,990,678 (approximately 71 times equity).
15

Dratel claimed that routing his personal trades through the omnibus accounts saved him
money. During FINRA’s investigation, Dratel stated he used the omnibus accounts because they
were “the simplest and most cost effective way” to trade, claiming that Oppenheimer charged
DGI twice as much for trades placed through personal accounts (such as Dratel’s or a
customer’s) as it did for trades placed through the omnibus accounts. At the hearing, Dratel
admitted that he had no evidence to support this assertion. He also admitted at the hearing that
he would have saved money by using the omnibus accounts only if he had placed bunched orders
of more than four trades. Because he executed significantly more single orders than bunched
trades for himself in 2006, he acknowledged that it would have been more cost effective for him
to initiate orders through his own account.

8
Between 2004 and 2005, Dratel lost another $144,981 in his personal account and $115,509 in
his IRA accounts. In addition to settling two customer arbitrations in 2002 and 2005, paying the
customers a total of $233,000, Dratel also personally compensated certain DGI customers for
$156,000 in trading losses between 2004 and 2005.16
In 2005, Dratel refinanced an approximately $4.2 million mortgage on his home with an
interest-only loan. Later that year, he put his home on the market and purchased a less expensive
one. He testified that he was having difficulty selling his first home and needed “a chunk of
money” to purchase the second. Dratel then borrowed $434,000 from a customer, despite
Dratel’s acknowledgement that his firm’s internal procedures barred him from doing so. Dratel
ultimately was unable to sell the first home, and the bank foreclosed on it in 2008.17
D. FINRA investigated an increase in the number of “as of” trades at DGI and
discovered numerous record-keeping inconsistencies.
In 2006, FINRA received a report indicating a significant increase in the number of “asof trades” that DGI executed relative to its peer firms.18 An “as-of trade” typically refers to a
trade executed to correct a trading error that occurred on an earlier “as-of” date.19

16

Dratel described these payments as covering “egregious” losses that he felt were the
result of his own bad investment decisions. Dratel made the payments by engaging in crosstrades between his personal account and the customers’ accounts. He purchased poorly
performing securities from customers at an above-market price (thus covering at least part of the
customers’ losses) and then sold the securities from his own account into the market (often for a
significant personal loss). Dratel did not disclose these trades to his customers.
17

Applicants dispute that Dratel suffered financial hardships in 2005 and 2006, but the only
support for this argument is a citation to Dratel’s cursory and self-serving testimony that he was
not suffering financial problems during that time.
18

FINRA maintained a surveillance system in which clearing firms provided information
about broker-dealers’ cancelled and as-of trades. According to Applicants, the firm would use
as-of trades for trades that were, for whatever reason, not entered into FiNet on the day the trade
was executed. Dratel testified that, when this happened, DGI would enter the trade into FiNet
the next date, but with the indication that the trade was executed “as-of” the earlier, intended
date. On appeal, Applicants argue that FINRA failed to prove that they used the “as-of” trades to
perpetuate their fraud. Although “[t]he use of an arbitrary ‘as of’ date for the purpose of creating
the appearance that a transaction had occurred on a specific date, in order to disguise or hide rule
violations, is an improper practice,” our findings of violations do not rely on Applicants’ use of
as-of trades. Kirk A. Knapp, Exchange Act Release No. 31556, 1992 WL 365568, at *3 n.17
(Dec. 3, 1992).
19

See, e.g., SEC v. Durgarian, 477 F. Supp. 2d 342, 352 (D. Mass. 2007) (stating that
mutual fund company had a policy of allowing “as of” trades to correct trading errors); Knapp,
1992 WL 36556, at *3 n.17 (observing that, “[i]n common industry usage, an ‘as of’ trade is the
correction of an error or oversight which actually occurred on the ‘as of’ date”).

9
FINRA initiated an examination to investigate the increase. During the exam, FINRA’s
lead examiner uncovered faxes indicating that Applicants had delayed the allocation of trades.20
In one case, she found order tickets in DGI’s files for the purchase and sale of Sun Microsystems
through an omnibus account that had time stamps of January 13, 2006, at 3:10 and 3:12 p.m. But
the allocation instructions for those trades indicated that they were not faxed to the Manhattan
office until four days later, with a notation that the trades should be entered “as of” the earlier,
January 13, date. The time stamps on the physical FiNet order tickets were manually altered to
reflect the January 13 trade date, with a time stamp of 9:12 a.m., which made it appear as if the
allocations were made six hours before the initial trades were placed.
FINRA’s examination also uncovered order tickets that were never time stamped. When
FINRA asked Applicants to provide more information about their trades,21 Applicants produced
tickets for the same trades, now time stamped and written in different handwriting. In another
instance, FINRA examiners found a ticket during their on-site examination for trades in IFS AB
stock that had no time stamp; Dratel later produced a ticket for the same trade with a time stamp,
for the correct time of the trade, but in different handwriting and with the wrong trade date. In
another instance, Dratel executed a cross-trade between customers on January 18, 2006. For that
trade, one customer’s order ticket is time stamped 2:22 p.m., while the order ticket for the other
side of the cross-trade is stamped 12:22 p.m. Dratel testified that he had told his staff to stamp
the tickets 2:22 p.m. (when he claimed to have done the cross-trade), but said he did not know
what caused the discrepancy.
III. Procedural History
In May 2010, FINRA’s Department of Enforcement filed a complaint against Applicants,
alleging, among other things, that Applicants executed a fraudulent trade allocation scheme and
falsified and backdated order tickets to further their cherry-picking scheme. After holding a
hearing, a hearing panel found Applicants liable for the alleged violations. One member of the
hearing panel partially dissented, finding that “there was no direct evidence of cherry-picking”
and that the Department of Enforcement’s “entire case was circumstantial and built exclusively
on the statistical unlikelihood of Dratel’s day trading success being attributable to anything other
than cherry-picking.”22 The statistical evidence, the dissenting member concluded, was based on
an arbitrary and unrepresentative sample of Applicants’ overall trades. The dissenting member
also found no evidence that Dratel personally altered order tickets, or directed anyone else to do
20

The hearing panel found that FINRA’s lead examiner “was credible and thorough in her
review of [Applicants’] records.” Applicants take issue with this conclusion, but we see no
reason to overturn it because the record evidence supports the FINRA examiner’s descriptions of
Applicants’ trading records. See infra note 34 (noting that we generally accord deference to the
fact finder’s credibility determinations).
21

Applicants were required to provide information or documents in the investigation
pursuant to NASD Rule 8210.
22

The dissenting member agreed with the majority’s finding of record-keeping violations
not related to Dratel’s cherry picking, but because he dissented from the majority’s fraud
findings, he recommended imposing lesser sanctions.

10
so, and that it was “not clear that allocations were made (as opposed to transmitted) after the
fact.”
Applicants appealed the hearing panel’s decision to FINRA’s National Adjudicatory
Council. The NAC affirmed the hearing panel’s findings and rejected the dissenting hearing
panel member’s conclusion that the Department of Enforcement had used arbitrary and
unrepresentative data to support its allegations. The NAC found that Dratel’s lower success rate
before 2006, as compared to his Discretionary Customers, did “not counteract the extreme nature
of the reversal that occurred in 2006 and the extent of the differences in 2006 between the
performance of day and overnight trading in Dratel’s personal account and day and overnight
trading in the [customers’] accounts, particularly given that Dratel and the customers often traded
the same or similar securities.”
The NAC found Applicants’ misconduct was “highly egregious, pervasive, [and]
premeditated” and affirmed the hearing panel’s decision to bar Dratel in all capacities and order
him to disgorge $489,000, plus pre-judgment interest, and to pay certain costs. The NAC
increased the sanction against DGI from a day-trading bar to a full expulsion from membership,
but declined to impose any fines against either Dratel or DGI because it had imposed a bar and
expulsion, respectively. This appeal followed.23
IV. Analysis
We base our findings on an independent review of the record and apply the
preponderance of the evidence standard for self-regulatory organization disciplinary actions.24
Pursuant to Exchange Act Section 19(e)(1), we determine whether Applicants engaged in the
conduct found by FINRA, whether that conduct violated the relevant provisions, and whether
those provisions are, and were applied in a manner, consistent with the purposes of the Exchange
Act.25
A. Applicants engaged in an unlawful cherry-picking scheme.
The record contains sufficient evidence to find that Applicants cherry picked profitable
trades away from their Discretionary Customers during the relevant period. First, the increased
proportion of profitable day and overnight trades in Dratel’s own account in 2006, and
corresponding decrease in the proportion of profitable trades in Discretionary Customers’
accounts, is a statistically significant departure from prior trading periods. Second, the record
supports a finding that Dratel allocated trades after they had been executed, and falsified and
backdated trade tickets to make it appear as if the allocations occurred when the trades were
23

Only the NAC’s decision is before us on appeal. See Philippe N. Keyes, Exchange Act
Release No. 54723, 2006 WL 3313843, at *6 (Nov. 8, 2006 (“[I]t is the decision of the NAC, not
the decision of the Hearing Panel, that is the final action of NASD which is subject to
Commission review.”).
24

See David M. Levine, Exchange Act Release No. 48760, 2003 WL 22570694, at *9 n.42
(Nov. 7, 2003) (citing Seaton v. SEC, 670 F.2d 309, 311 (D.C. Cir. 1982) (upholding
preponderance of evidence standard in SRO disciplinary proceeding)).
25

15 U.S.C. § 78s(e)(1).

11
placed. Third, the record evidence does not demonstrate an explanation, other than cherry
picking, for the increased proportion of profitable trades in Dratel’s own account. As a whole,
the circumstantial and indirect evidence in the record establishes by a preponderance of the
evidence that Dratel cherry picked profitable trades away from his customers to benefit himself.
Neither chance, faulty statistics, nor trading strategy provides a persuasive alternative
explanation for the shifts in success rates and late allocation of trades.
The increase in Dratel’s rate of profitable trades in his personal account during the
relevant period and the decrease in the rate of profitable trades in the Discretionary Customers’
accounts during the same period cannot be explained by chance alone. The proportion of
profitable trades in Dratel’s own account had been slightly lower during the first nine months of
2005 than the proportion of profitable trades in the Discretionary Customers’ accounts (40% of
Dratel’s own trades were profitable versus 46% of the Discretionary Customers’ trades). In
comparison, from October 2005 through December 2006, Dratel’s success rate when trading for
his own accounts was 83%, while his success rate when trading for the Discretionary Customers’
accounts was 28%.26
This is striking because the proportion of profitable day and overnight trades when the
trades in both Dratel’s own account and the Discretionary Customers’ accounts are combined is
consistent and stable in both periods. For all day and overnight trades placed in both Dratel’s
own account and the Discretionary Customers’ accounts, the aggregate proportion of profitable
trades in the first nine months of 2005 was approximately 45%, and the aggregate proportion of
profitable trades from October 2005 through December 2006 was approximately 44%. Although
the aggregate proportion of profitable day and overnight trades during the two periods was
essentially the same, from October 2005 through December 2006, the trades that Dratel allocated
to his own account were much more likely to be profitable than the trades that he allocated to the
Discretionary Customers’ accounts. The statistical probability that chance caused the difference
between Dratel’s own success rate and his Discretionary Customers’ success rate from October
2005 through December 2006 was effectively zero.
We reject Applicants’ argument that the statistical evidence on which FINRA relied was
an arbitrary and unrepresentative sample of Applicants’ trades and order tickets.27 Applicants
26

In its complaint, FINRA’s Department of Enforcement alleged that Applicants’
misconduct occurred from October 2005 through December 2006, but the hearing panel and the
NAC limited their fraud findings to 2006. As part of our review, however, we examined all of
the trades and statistics that were part of the record. Our discussion therefore includes statistics
concerning trades over a longer period of time. The hearing panel and the NAC both found all
other violations to have occurred from October 2005 through December 2006.
27

A two-proportion z-test is a hypothesis test to determine whether the difference between
two ratios is statistically significant. This test requires there to be a “null hypothesis” and an
“alternative hypothesis.” The “null hypothesis” is the hypothesis that the observed results are
caused solely by chance. The “alternative hypothesis” is the hypothesis that the observed results
are from some non-random cause. The “z score” or “z statistic” indicates how many standard
deviations the alternative hypothesis results are from those of the null hypothesis. A z-statistic of
1.96 (or -1.96) indicates a result that is approximately two standard deviations away from the
(continued…)

12
fault FINRA for focusing on day and overnight trades that represented a tiny fraction of the
overall trading activity during the relevant period.28 The analysis’s focus on day and overnight
trades was reasonable because Dratel testified that he engaged in “purely day trading” when
trading for his own account. The long-term trades FINRA excluded from its analysis were
(…continued)

expected result, and anything above that number in absolute value is generally considered
statistically significant. The z-statistic can be expressed as a “p-value,” which is the probability
that the difference between the null hypothesis and Dratel’s actual trade results occurred by
chance. The larger the z-score, the smaller the p-value, and a p-value smaller than 5% is
generally considered statistically significant. See SEC v. Selden, 632 F. Supp. 2d 91, 94
(D. Mass. 2009) (“A p value of 0.05 or less (indicating a 95% level of certainty that the observed
effect was not randomly induced) is generally accepted as showing a statistically-significant
effect.”); FEDERAL JUDICIAL CENTER, REFERENCE MANUAL ON SCIENTIFIC EVIDENCE 250 (3d ed.
2000) (“Large p-values indicate that a disparity can easily be explained by the play of chance:
The data fall within the range likely to be produced by chance variation. On the other hand, if p
is very small, something other than chance must be involved: The data are far away from the
values expected under the null hypothesis.”).
In this case, the null hypothesis was that Dratel would achieve the same trading results
(namely achieve the same ratio of profitable trades in his personal account to the profitable
trades in the Discretionary Customers’ accounts) simply by chance. The alternative hypothesis
was that this ratio was a result of some non-random cause, e.g., cherry picking by Applicants.
The Z statistic for Dratel’s trading activity, from October 2005 through December 2006,
was 20.39— highly statistically significant. The associated p-value indicates that there is
effectively zero probability of his trading results being the result of chance. By comparison, in
the nine months before Dratel’s cherry-picking scheme began in late 2005, the z-statistic was
0.53 with a p-value of 59%, meaning there was no statistically significant difference between
Dratel’s success when trading for his own account or for his customers’ accounts during that
time.
Applicants argue that FINRA failed to show that this increased success rate was more
than what occurred at some other time in Dratel’s trading history. It may be that Dratel had a
higher proportion of successful trades at some other time in his trading career, but Applicants
point to no evidence of this. Even if this were true, we still find for all the reasons discussed
herein that FINRA provided ample evidence to conclude that Dratel’s increased success rate
during the relevant time is best explained by Applicants’ cherry picking trades.
28

Dratel argues, for instance, that FINRA focused on the twenty-seven trades where he
traded the same stock on the same day as his customers, which he claims represent fewer than
1.6% of all trades at issue during the relevant time. This is not an accurate comparison, however,
because FINRA looked at all of Dratel’s day and overnight trades in his and the Discretionary
Customers’ accounts, not just the twenty-seven instances where Dratel traded the same stock on
the same day as his customers—and this larger pool of trades represents approximately 31% of
all trades at issue.

13
allocated exclusively to customer accounts; analyzing them for cherry picking would be to no
end, since there are no long-term trades that Dratel allocated to his personal accounts. To test for
cherry picking here, it was necessary to compare the performance of similar trades across
personal and customer accounts.
Applicants also fault FINRA for excluding the fifteen customer accounts from its
analysis that contained only one or two day and overnight trades during the relevant period.
FINRA’s exclusion of the fifteen customer accounts, however, does not affect the persuasiveness
of its statistical evidence. If FINRA had included in its analysis two day and overnight trades in
each of the fifteen customer accounts, and we assume that all of those trades were profitable for
customers during the relevant period, there would not be a significant change in the proportion of
profitable trades in Dratel’s account versus the Discretionary Customers’ accounts. And the
probability of that success occurring by chance would still be effectively zero.
Finally, Applicants fault FINRA for failing to explain its rationale for calculating Dratel’s
success rate on a per-customer basis instead of a per-stock basis. FINRA expressly considered
this issue and concluded that Applicants’ preferred methodology of using a per-stock calculation
did not provide an accurate comparison between Dratel’s success rate and that of his customers.
By considering multiple transactions in the same security as a single trade, FINRA observed,
Applicants’ approach would effectively hide those occasions where Dratel made multiple trades
in a given security during the day, and later allocated the better trades to himself.29 Ultimately, it
is appropriate to use a per-customer analysis, and Dratel offers no authority suggesting such an
approach is invalid or improper.30
Besides challenging the statistical evidence, Applicants argue that the higher proportion
of profitable trades in Dratel’s account was the result of Dratel’s use of a more aggressive trading
strategy for himself than for his customers. This is not supported by his testimony or any other
record evidence.
Dratel testified that he “always” or “usually” used a more aggressive day-trading strategy
for himself. He claimed this difference in strategy was “part of [his] fiduciary duty . . . not to put
29

To illustrate the difference, assume, arguendo, that Dratel purchased a stock twice in a
given day (first at $9 per share and later at $10) and that he then sold all of those shares on the
same day at $9.50, allocating the winning trade (purchased at $9) to his own account and the
losing trade (purchased at $10) to a customer’s account. Analyzing these transactions on a per
customer basis, as FINRA did, would show these differing outcomes. But analyzing the
transactions on a per stock basis, as Applicants suggest, would result in only a single data point,
which would show that neither a winning nor a losing trade took place because the stock’s
average purchase price would equal its sale price ($9.50)—thus hiding Dratel’s profit and his
customer’s loss. SEC v. K.W. Brown & Co., 555 F. Supp. 2d 1275, 1299 (S.D. Fla. 2007)
(finding evidence of cherry picking by analyzing trades on a per customer basis).
30

Applicants argue that FINRA failed to show that this increased trading volume was
greater than any other increase between 1999 and 2004, but Applicants themselves introduced an
exhibit showing that Dratel’s trading volume in 2006 was significantly higher than in any other
year between 1999 and 2004.

14
the customers at a greater risk than they need to be.” But that testimony was contradicted by his
other hearing testimony and his earlier investigation testimony.
At the hearing, he admitted that he held a higher percentage of his customers’ “day-trade
positions” overnight than he did in his own account—and acknowledged that holding these
positions overnight was riskier than ending the day flat.31 Further, Dratel conceded that he used
the same trading strategy for himself and his customers on the occasions when he traded the
same stock, on the same day, for both accounts. And in his investigative testimony he said that
he “day trade[d] the same way for everyone. . . . Day trading is day trading” and that there was
“[u]sually no difference” between how he selected stocks for himself and for customers,
although he was also “sure” there were times when “the customers had the riskier [stock].
The actual trading activity also contradicts Dratel’s claim. He traded the same stock on
the same day twenty-seven times in 2006. And despite using the same trading strategy for those
stocks, Dratel received a greater profit or smaller loss than his customers in twenty-one of the
twenty-seven trades (78%).32
Applicants also claim that their increased proportion of profitable trades (and their
customers’ corresponding decreased proportion of profitable trades) can be explained by Dratel’s
use of an online subscription service called TheFlyOnTheWall.com (“TheFly”). Dratel testified
that he began to use TheFly in 2004. When asked to explain why, during 2006, the
recommendations from TheFly were more profitable for himself than his customers, Dratel
claimed that 2006 was a year with “less volatility of the customers’ stocks, even though the
stocks were volatile, I would also try to buy the customers the ones with the better
recommendations.” Dratel’s explanations about his trading strategy, however, do not explain the
dramatic change in the proportion of profitable trades between his and his customers’ accounts
during the relevant period. As a result, we are not persuaded by Applicants’ claims that the
changes in success rate were the result of trading strategy.33

31

Dratel held approximately 27% (323 of 1,164 trades) of his customers’ day-trade
positions overnight, while he held only 5% (21 of 423 trades) of his own day-trade positions
overnight. See also Day Trading: Your Dollars at Risk, at 1, available at http://www.sec.gov/
investor/pubs/daytips.htm (“True day traders do not own any stocks overnight because of the
extreme risk that prices will change radically from one day to the next, leading to large losses.”).
32

Applicants contend that this difference in profits “was because Dratel charged himself
slightly less commission on these trades,” but provide no citation to the record supporting this
claim. See 17 C.F.R. § 201.450(b) (requiring that all exceptions to the findings or conclusions
under review “shall be supported by citation to the relevant portions of the record, including
references to the specific pages relied upon”).
33

K.W. Brown, 555 F. Supp. 2d at 1304 (finding that defendants engaged in cherry picking
where the disparity between the success of their and their customers’ trades, “cannot be
explained through market forces and . . . is more likely than not . . . caused from cherry
picking”).

15
Dratel claims that he made his allocation decision when he initiated his day and overnight
trades (and thus did not cherry pick). But the only evidence supporting his claim is his own
testimony, which the hearing panel did not credit. We agree that his testimony is not credible.34
Dratel testified that he recorded all allocation decisions as he made them on a sheet of paper (for
multiple customer orders) or on an order ticket (for single customer orders). But when asked
whether he ever produced the allocation sheets to FINRA, Dratel responded, “No, because I
never keep them.” He explained that he “d[id]n’t run [his] business that way, as just a data
collection center.” Dratel similarly admitted that DGI did not number or code its order tickets
(on which he recorded single-trade allocations) and that he therefore could have discarded a
ticket before the trade was entered in FiNet, and created a new one, without anyone knowing that
another ticket had existed, and had been replaced or discarded. There was, in other words, no
evidence to corroborate Dratel’s claims about how he actually allocated the trades. There was,
however, significant documentary evidence, discussed above—including falsified tickets,
backdated tickets, and allocation instructions that were faxed post-execution35—all of which
suggests he allocated trades after they were executed.36
The statistical and documentary evidence supports FINRA’s finding by a preponderance
of the evidence that Applicants cherry picked profitable trades away from the Discretionary
Customers’ accounts. Dratel has also offered no persuasive alternative to FINRA’s findings.
Although the burden of proving that Applicants engaged in violative conduct rests with FINRA,
Applicants bore the burden of producing evidence to support their claimed factual defenses to the

34

“We generally accord considerable weight and deference to the fact finder’s credibility
determination.” Mitchell H. Fillet, Exchange Act Release No. 75054, 2015 WL 3397780, at *8
(May 27, 2015) (finding no reason to depart from a FINRA hearing panel’s credibility
determination); cf. Rita J. McConville, Exchange Act Release No. 51950, 2005 WL 1560276, at
*6 n.21 (June 30, 2005) (observing in an administrative proceeding that the credibility
determination of an initial fact finder “is entitled to considerable weight and deference because it
is based on hearing the witnesses’ testimony and observing their demeanor”), petition denied,
465 F.3d 780 (7th Cir. 2006)).
35

Applicants argue that FINRA failed to produce original copies of the faxes admitted as
exhibits during trial, contending that FINRA failed to establish that the “fax [marks on DGI’s
records] were genuine and unaltered.” Applicants have not presented evidence that the
documents were altered by FINRA, such as their own original records from which these
documents were copied.
36

DGI’s supervisory procedures also required that Dratel, as the designated sales
supervisor, ensure that all “employee or employee-related orders are so designated on the order
ticket.” But Dratel admitted that none of the OMS order tickets for his trades contained any
indication that the trade was for him. Rather, the tickets stated only that they were for DGI’s
omnibus account. DGI’s procedures similarly required that “each [Registered Representative]
effecting a trade for any discretionary account must designate the account number prior to
entering any order.” Dratel admitted that he did not provide account numbers on order tickets
before executing trades through DGI’s omnibus accounts.

16
charged conduct.37 Applicants had ample opportunity to offer their own expert analysis or other
countervailing evidence about why Dratel’s rate of profitable trades in his personal account
during the relevant period and the decrease in the Discretionary Customers’ rate of profitable
trades during the same period was not due to cherry picking. Instead, Applicants provided
unpersuasive explanations—which without adequate supporting evidence amounts to little more
than assertions—for Dratel’s trading success that, as we explain above, do not outweigh
FINRA’s evidence of cherry picking.
B. Applicants’ Cherry-Picking Scheme Violated The Antifraud Provisions of The
Securities Laws.
We sustain FINRA’s finding that Applicants violated Exchange Act Section 10(b),
Exchange Act Rule 10b-5, and NASD Rule 2120 by engaging in an unlawful cherry-picking
scheme. Section 10(b) makes it “unlawful for any person directly or indirectly . . . to use or
employ, in connection with the purchase or sale of any security . . . any manipulative or
deceptive device or contrivance in contravention of” Commission rules.38 Rule 10b-5
implements the Commission’s authority under Section 10(b) through three subsections that are
“mutually supporting rather than mutually exclusive.”39
The first subsection, Rule 10b-5(a), prohibits “directly or indirectly . . . employ[ing] any
device, scheme, or artifice to defraud.”40 The second subsection, Rule 10b-5(b), prohibits
“directly or indirectly . . . mak[ing] any untrue statement of a material fact or [omitting] to state a
material fact necessary in order to make the statements made . . . not misleading.”41 The third,
Rule 10b-5(c), prohibits “directly or indirectly . . . engag[ing] in any act, practice, or course of
business which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon any person.”42 Liability

37

See, e.g., Atlanta-One, Inc. v. SEC, 100 F.3d 105, 109–10 (9th Cir. 1996) (finding that
NASD had not impermissibly shifted the burden of proof when it asked respondent during the
hearing process to explain certain commissions that were alleged to have been excessive); Kirlin
Sec., Inc., Exchange Act Release No. 61135, 2009 WL 4731652, at *13 n.87 (Dec. 10, 2009)
(“As always, the burden of proving that an applicant engaged in conduct violating [FINRA rules]
rests with FINRA; however, as we have stated previously, the applicant bears the burden of
producing evidence to support his claimed defenses.” (citing James M. Bowen, Exchange Act
Release No. 34195, 1994 WL 268834, at *2 (June 10, 1994) (affirming violation for failure to
pay arbitration award timely where applicant “produced no documents, letters, or witnesses to
corroborate his assertions” about having conducted good faith negotiations with arbitration
counterparty))).
38

15 U.S.C. § 78j(b).

39

Cady, Roberts & Co., Exchange Act Release No. 6668, 1961 WL 60638, at *4 (Nov. 8,

1961).
40

17 C.F.R. § 240.10b-5(a).

41

Id. § 240.10b-5(b).

42

Id. § 240.10b-5(c).

17
under each subsection requires a showing of scienter, “a mental state embracing intent to
deceive, manipulate, or defraud.”43
NASD Rule 2120, in place at the time of the conduct, similarly prohibited members from
“effect[ing] any transaction in, or induc[ing] the purchase or sale of, any security by means of
any manipulative, deceptive or other fraudulent device or contrivance.”44
We conclude that Applicants violated Exchange Act Section 10(b), Rule 10b-5, and
NASD Rule 2120 because their cherry picking was a deceptive “device, scheme [and] artifice to
defraud”45 and a deceptive act, practice, and course of business which operated as a “fraud or
deceit”46 on their customers.47 It is “well-settled” that “a discretionary account automatically

43

Ernst & Ernst v. Hochfelder, 425 U.S. 185, 193 n.12 (1976). Scienter may be established
through a heightened showing of recklessness. Rockies Fund, Inc. v. SEC, 428 F.3d 1088, 1093
(D.C. Cir. 2005). This has been “defined as . . . an extreme departure from the standards of
ordinary care, and which presents a danger of misleading buyers or sellers that is either known to
the [actor] or is so obvious that the actor must have been aware of it.” David Henry Disraeli,
Exchange Act Release No. 57027, 2007 WL 4481515, at *5 (Dec. 21, 2007); accord SEC v.
Ficken, 546 F.3d 45, 47–48 (1st Cir. 2008) (finding that Section 10(b) and Rule 10b–5 require “a
high degree of recklessness” (quotations omitted)); Rockies Fund, 428 F.3d at 1093 (finding that
Rule 10b-5 requires a showing of extreme recklessness).
44

NASD Rule 2120 is now FINRA Rule 2020. See Notice of Filing of a Proposed Rule
Change, Exchange Act Release No. 58095, 2008 WL 2971979, at *3 (July 3, 2008) (observing
FINRA’s belief that transferring NASD Rule 2120 into the Consolidated FINRA Rulebook as
FINRA Rule 2020 with no changes was consistent with the provisions of Exchange Act Section
15A(b)(6), which requires that FINRA’s rules be designed to prevent fraudulent and
manipulative acts and practices and to protect investors and the public interest), Rule Change
Approved Without Modification, 2008 WL 4468749 (Sept. 25, 2008).
45

17 C.F.R. § 240.10b-5(a).

46

Id. § 240.10b-5(c).

47

Cf. K.W. Brown, 555 F. Supp. 2d at 1304 (finding that, “by its very nature,” a cherrypicking scheme operated as a fraud in violation Rule 10b-5(a) and (c)). FINRA found that
Applicants willfully violated the antifraud and recordkeeping provisions, noting that such a
finding gives rise to a statutory disqualification under Exchange Act Section 3(a)(39)(F). See 15
U.S.C. § 78c(a)(39)(F) (stating that a person is subject to a statutory disqualification if, among
other things, he has committed any act enumerated in Exchange Act Section 15(b)(4)(D), 15
U.S.C. § 78o(b)(4)(D), which refers, among other things, to willful violations of the Exchange
Act). Under Article III, § 3, of FINRA’s By-Laws, a person subject to a statutory
disqualification cannot become or remain associated with a FINRA member unless the
disqualified person’s member firm applies for and is granted, in FINRA’s discretion, relief from
the statutory disqualification. See Joseph S. Amundsen, Exchange Act Release No. 69406, 2013
WL 1683914, at *1 n.4 (Apr. 18, 2013).
(continued…)

18
implies a general fiduciary duty between a broker and customer.”48 And a fiduciary has “an
affirmative duty of . . . full and fair disclosure of all material facts.”49 Nondisclosure in breach
of a fiduciary duty “satisfies section 10(b)’s requirement . . . [of] a ‘deceptive device or
contrivance.’”50 Dratel breached his fiduciary duty by failing to disclose that he was cherry
picking trades for his own personal benefit. 51 As FINRA concluded, “[a] reasonable investor
surely would find material Dratel’s subordination of discretionary customers’ interests to his
personal interests.” Accordingly, Applicants’ conduct was deceptive within the meaning of
Section 10(b).
Having found that Applicants acted deceptively, we also find that they employed a
device, scheme, or artifice to defraud in violation of Rule 10b-5(a) and engaged in an act,
practice, or course of business that operated as a fraud in violation of Rule 10b-5(c). Each
cherry-picked trade was a device Applicants used to defraud a customer of profits. The series of
cherry-picked trades constituted an over-arching scheme to defraud the Discretionary Customers
by stealing profits on select trades in a way that would be difficult to detect. The Applicants
used the falsified and backdated FiNet tickets as artifices to defraud and make their cherry(…continued)

Because we find that Applicants acted with scienter in violating the antifraud provisions,
and because Dratel admitted to time stamping blank order tickets (and directing his staff to do
the same) and to adding customer names to order tickets after execution, we agree with FINRA
that Applicants acted willfully. Cf. Robert D. Tucker, Exchange Act Release No. 68210, 2012
WL 5462896, at *10 (Nov. 9, 2012) (stating that a willful violation under the federal securities
laws simply means “‘that the person charged with the duty knows what he is doing.’” (quoting
Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408,414 (D.C. Cir. 2000))).
48

United States v. Wolfson, 642 F.3d 293, 295 (2d Cir. 2011); accord United States v.
Skelly, 442 F.3d 94, 98 (2d Cir. 2006); United States v. Szur, 289 F.3d 200, 208 (2d Cir. 2002).
49

Geman v. SEC, 334 F.3d 1183, 1189 (10th Cir. 2003) (quotation omitted); see also
Paulson Inv. Co., Inc., Exchange Act Release No. 19603, 47 SEC 886, 1983 WL 32198, at *2
(Mar. 16, 1983) (quoting Chasins v. Smith, Barney & Co., Inc., 438 F.2d 1167, 1172 (2d Cir.
1970) (finding a Rule 10b-5 violation where firm failed to disclose that its buy recommendations
“could have been motivated by its own market position rather than the intrinsic desirability of the
securities for [its customers]”)).
50

United States v. O’Hagan, 521 U.S. 642, 653 (1997); see also United States v. Finnerty,
533 F.3d 143, 148 (2d Cir. 2008) (holding that deception “irreducibly entails some act that gives
the victim a false impression” such as “a false statement, breach of a duty to disclose, or
deceptive communicative conduct”); see generally Stoneridge Inv. Partners, LLC v. ScientificAtlanta, 128 S. Ct. 761, 769 (2008) (“Conduct itself can be deceptive.”).
51

See Basic Inc. v. Levinson, 485 U.S. 224, 231–32 (1988); see also Vernazza v. SEC, 327
F.3d 851, 859 (9th Cir. 2003) (stating that even “potential conflicts of interest are ‘material’ facts
with respect to clients and the Commission”); cf. K.W. Brown, 555 F. Supp. 2d at 1305 (finding
that defendants made materially false statements when failing to disclose that they were placing
their interests in front of their customers by keeping profitable trades for themselves).

19
picking scheme successful. Applicants made it appear as if trades were allocated at the time the
trade orders were placed by time stamping the paper FiNet tickets at the same time that the OMS
tickets were stamped (even though Applicants delayed their completion of the allocation
instructions on the FiNet tickets until after a position was closed).
Similarly, each cherry-picked trade was an act that operated as a fraud or deceit on the
affected customer by depriving that customer of profits. Applicants’ allocation of trades after
they were able to see which trades would be profitable, followed by cherry picking, was a
practice and course of business that operated as a fraud on the Discretionary Customers.
The record also supports a finding that Applicants acted with scienter. Dratel controlled
all of the trading and allocation decisions. Dratel therefore knew that he was trading in the same
securities as his customers and that he was favoring his own account over theirs.52 Dratel’s
dramatically increased personal success rate, at the expense of his customers’ success, further
demonstrate that he intended to defraud his customers. Dratel also demonstrated his intent to
deceive when he failed to disclose his activities to his customers and attempted to conceal his
misconduct from FINRA.53 We therefore find that Dratel acted with scienter and that, as DGI’s
owner and sole registered person, Dratel’s actions and scienter are imputed to DGI.54
Applicants argue that FINRA erred in citing several cases —James C. Dawson,55 SEC v.
K.W. Brown, 56 and SEC v. Slocum.57 In Dawson, we imposed an associational bar on an
investment adviser after finding that he had been enjoined from violating the anti-fraud
provisions of the securities laws as a result of his cherry-picking scheme.58 Applicants contend
that Dawson is distinguishable because the respondent there had established new trading
accounts at the beginning of his cherry-picking scheme, while Applicants had been using the

52

See, e.g., K.W. Brown, 555 F. Supp. 2d at 1307 (finding scienter where “it was impossible
for [defendant] not to know about the cherry-picking scheme since he was doing the actual
trading that constituted the cherry[-]picking scheme”).
53

See Phillip J. Milligan, Exchange Act Release No. 61790, 2010 WL 1143088, at *5 (Mar.
26, 2010) (“[A]ttempts to conceal misconduct indicate scienter.”).
54

See Disraeli, 2007 WL 4481515, at *5 n.25 (“The scienter of a corporation’s officers and
directors establishes the scienter of the corporation for purposes of the antifraud provisions.”
(internal quotation marks and citation omitted)); cf. SIG Specialists, Inc., Exchange Act Release
No. 51867, 2005 WL 1421103, at *7 (June 17, 2005) (“It is well-established that a firm may be
held accountable for the misconduct of its associated persons because it is through such persons
that a firm acts.”).
55

Investment Adviser Act Release No. 3057, 2010 WL 2886183, at *1 (July 23, 2010)
(barring an investment advisor who engaged in a cherry-picking scheme to divert profitable
securities trades he made on behalf of a hedge fund to his personal trading account).
56

555 F. Supp. 2d at 1304 (finding defendants liable for fraudulent cherry-picking scheme).

57

334 F. Supp. 2d 144.

58

2010 WL 2886183.

20
same omnibus accounts for years.59 This distinction is irrelevant. Unlike Dawson, who needed
to open a new account to enable his cherry picking, Applicants already had a system in place that
allowed for late allocation among accounts at the same broker. The fact that Applicants did not
need to open a new account does not have any effect on their liability.60
In K.W. Brown, the court found, among other things, that defendants violated the antifraud provisions through their cherry-picking scheme.61 Applicants contend unlike in their case,
the customers in K.W. Brown experienced significant overall losses, and the defendants often got
better prices than their customers, failed to identify customer allocations until after execution,
and provided an inadequate explanation for using an average price account. Contrary to
Applicants’ argument, these facts—or ones similar to them—are present in this case.
Although Applicants’ overall customer base may not have suffered losses, the
Discretionary Customers suffered an aggregate net day-trading loss of $185,748 during the
relevant period. Even if the Discretionary Customers had realized net day-trading profits, the
Discretionary Customers would have made greater profits if Applicants had not cherry picked
certain profitable trades away from their accounts. Applicants received better prices than their
customers when trading the same stock, on the same day. Applicants also failed to identify
customer allocations until after execution, and did not provide an adequate explanation for using
the omnibus accounts for both their own and their customers’ trades.
Slocum62 also does not demand a contrary result. There, a district court found that the
Commission had not proven its allegations that defendants engaged in a cherry-picking scheme.
The court, based on the facts in the case before it, credited the defendants’ explanations for why
certain trades in their customers’ accounts were less profitable, while trades in their own
accounts were more profitable. Here, in contrast, the hearing panel expressly did not credit
Applicants’ explanations about their trades. And we, too, do not find Applicants’ explanations
credible.
Applicants argue that Slocum allows an inference of non-cherry picking if there is
evidence their customer accounts “performed extremely well,”63 which they allege was true for
their customers between 1999 and 2006. But in Slocum, the Commission had relied on evidence
of “hypothetical client losses,” not evidence of actual customer losses on cherry picking trades.64
Unlike in Slocum, statistical evidence from Applicants’ actual day and overnight trades shows
that their Discretionary Customers performed worse on those trades than Dratel during the
relevant period. At no point does the court in Slocum establish a per se rule, as Applicants
suggest, that overall profitability negates an inference of cherry picking.

59

Id. at *1.

60

Id.

61

555 F. Supp. 2d at 1304.

62

334 F. Supp. 2d 144.

63

Id. at 173.

64

Id. at 169–73.

21
Within the context of the facts of this case, we find it compelling that there is both
testimony and documentary evidence that Dratel allocated day trades after they had been
completed and he knew whether the trades had been profitable. Further, Dratel’s increased
trading volume corresponded with a decrease in available personal equity. Similar evidence was
simply not present in Slocum.
C. Applicants violated the recordkeeping provisions.
In carrying out their cherry-picking scheme, Applicants also violated various
recordkeeping provisions. Exchange Act Section 17(a)(1)65 requires registered brokers and
dealers to make and keep records as required by Commission rules. Exchange Act Rule 17a3(a)(6) requires broker-dealers to indicate on every brokerage order ticket the account for which
an order is entered, the time the order was received, the time of entry, the time of execution (to
the extent feasible), and whether the order was entered pursuant to an exercise of discretionary
authority.66 Similarly, Exchange Act Rule 17a-3(a)(7) requires broker-dealers to indicate on
every proprietary order ticket the account for which an order is entered, the time the order was
received (when the purchase or sale is with a customer other than a broker-dealer), the time of
execution (to the extent feasible), and whether the order was entered pursuant to an exercise of
discretionary authority (when the purchase or sale is with a customer other than a brokerdealer).67

65

15 U.S.C § 78q(a)(1).

66

17 C.F.R. § 240.17a-3(a)(6) (requiring that a memorandum of “each brokerage order”
show, among other things, “the time the order was received; the time of entry; the price at which
executed; the identity of each associated person, if any, responsible for the account; . . . and, to
the extent feasible, the time of execution or cancellation”); see also Statement Regarding the
Maintenance of Current Books and Records by Brokers and Dealers, Exchange Act Release No.
10756 (April 26, 1974), 39 FR 16440, 16440 (May 9, 1974) (stating that “[b]y their nature the
memoranda of brokerage and principal transactions should be prepared at the time of the
transactions”).
67

17 C.F.R. § 240.17a-3(a)(7) (requiring that a memorandum for “each purchase and sale
for the account of the member, broker, or dealer” show, among other things, “the price and, to
the extent feasible, the time of execution; and, in addition, where the purchase or sale is with a
customer other than a broker or dealer, a memorandum of each order received, showing the time
of receipt; the terms and conditions of the order and of any modification thereof; the account for
which it was entered; the identity of each associated person, if any, responsible for the account”);
see also Statement Regarding the Maintenance of Current Books and Records by Brokers and
Dealers, Exchange Act Release No. 10756 (Apr. 26, 1974), 39 FR 16440, 16440 (May 9, 1974)
(stating that “[b]y their nature the memoranda of brokerage and principal transactions should be
prepared at the time of the transactions”).

22
Implicit in these requirements is “that the records be accurate, which applies ‘regardless
of whether the information itself is mandated.’”68 NASD Rule 3110(a) similarly requires that
members make and preserve books, accounts, records, memoranda, and correspondence in
conformity with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, which includes Exchange Act Rules
17a-3 and 17a-4. NASD Rule 3110(j) requires that, before any customer order is executed, the
name or designation of the account for which the order is to be executed must be placed on the
order ticket. And NASD Rule 2110 requires the observance of high standards of commercial
honor and just and equitable principles of trade. A violation of any other Commission or NASD
rule constitutes a violation of NASD Rule 2110.69 Proof of scienter is not required to establish
violations of either the SEC or FINRA recordkeeping provisions.70
Applicants failed to meet these obligations. Applicants admit that they or their staff time
stamped blank order tickets, failed to identify customers on order tickets until after execution,71
and threw order tickets away.72 Applicants’ staff also admitted to backdating time stamps on
tickets. When asked during FINRA’s investigation about suspicious or questionable order
tickets, Applicants also produced several obviously altered tickets that contradicted earlier
tickets, and thereby providing compelling evidence that Applicants falsified order tickets to
conceal their misconduct from FINRA.
On appeal, Applicants admit that their records contained errors, but describe them as
mere clerical mistakes. The evidence is to the contrary. Applicants played an active and
knowing role in intentionally mismarking, altering, or omitting information in records in
furtherance of their scheme. Dratel admits, for example, that he purposefully left customer

68

Eric J. Brown, Exchange Act Release No. 66469, 2012 WL 625874, at *11 (Feb. 27,
2012) (quoting Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc., Exchange Act Release No. 33367,
1993 WL 538899 at *7 (Dec. 22, 1993)).
69

See Stephen J. Gluckman, Exchange Act Release No. 41628, 1999 WL 507864, at *6
(July 20, 1999) (stating that “our long-standing and judicially-recognized policy [is] that a
violation of another Commission or NASD rule or regulation . . . constitutes a violation of
[NASD] Conduct Rule 2110.”); see also Fillet, 2015 WL 3397780, at *13 (observing that
“providing misleading and inaccurate information to FINRA is conduct contrary to high
standards of commercial honor and is inconsistent with just and equitable principles of trade”).
70

See Fillet, 2015 WL 3397780, at *12–13 (observing that neither NASD Rule 2110 nor
3110 have scienter requirements); Orlando Joseph Jett, Exchange Act Release No. 49366, 2004
WL 2809317, at *23 (Mar. 5, 2004) (finding that scienter is not required to establish a primary
violation of Exchange Act Section 17(a)(1) or the rules thereunder).
71

We note that FINRA Rule 4515.01, which is based on NYSE Rule Interpretation 410/02,
permits investment advisers to allocate orders by noon of the next business day following the
trading session. DGI was not registered as an investment adviser.
72

Although the NAC decision did not discuss Exchange Act Rule 17a-4 violations, NASD
Rule 3110(a) requires members to make and preserve books and records in conformity with all
applicable laws, rules, and regulations, including Exchange Act Rule 17a-4.

23
names and account numbers blank when time stamping FiNet order tickets and completed the
information later. Dratel also admitted to directing his staff to throw order tickets away, and
Applicants’ staff admitted to rolling back the time stamp machine so that time stamps on FiNet
tickets matched time stamps on OMS tickets. Although Applicants claim that they did not know
DGI staff was rolling back the time stamp machine or making other mistakes, the hearing panel
did not find Dratel’s testimony on this issue to be credible, and we see no basis to disagree with
that finding.
Accordingly, DGI violated Exchange Act Section 17(a)(1), Exchange Act Rules 17a3(a)(6) and (7), and Applicants violated NASD Rule 3110.73 Because Dratel handled all of
DGI’s trading, and completed or directed DGI staff to complete all of the firm’s order tickets,
Dratel also caused DGI’s recordkeeping violations.74 By violating these recordkeeping
provisions, Applicants also violated NASD Rule 2110.
V. Sanctions
Exchange Act Section 19(e)(2) directs us to sustain FINRA’s sanctions unless we find,
having due regard for the public interest and the protection of investors, that the sanctions are
excessive or oppressive or impose an unnecessary or inappropriate burden on competition.75 As
part of this review, we consider any aggravating or mitigating factors presented76 and whether
the sanctions that FINRA imposed are remedial and not punitive.77 Though not bound by
FINRA’s Sanction Guidelines, we use them as a benchmark for our review under Exchange Act
Section 19(e)(2).78 Here, we sustain FINRA’s decision to bar Dratel in all capacities; expel DGI
from membership; and order Dratel to pay disgorgement, interest, and certain costs.

73

NASD Rule 115 made NASD’s rules, including the books and records requirements,
equally applicable to “[FINRA] members and persons associated with a member,” such as
Dratel. NASD Rule 115; see also Edward S. Brokaw, Exchange Act Release No. 70883, 2013
WL 6044123, at *16 (Nov. 15, 2013).
74

K.W. Brown, 2012 WL 625874, at *11 (observing that a person “can be a cause of a
broker-dealer’s violations of the books and records provisions ‘if he was responsible for an act or
omission that he knew or should have known would contribute to the violation.’” (quoting
Stephen J. Horning, Exchange Act Release No. 56886, 2007 WL 4236161, at *12 (Dec. 3,
2007), aff’d, 570 F.3d 337 (D.C. Cir. 2009))).
75

15 U.S.C. § 78s(e)(2). Applicants do not allege, and the record does not show, that the
FINRA rules at issue are, or that FINRA’s application of them was, inconsistent with the
Exchange Act. Nor do Applicants allege, nor does the record show, that FINRA’s sanctions in
this case imposed an undue burden on competition.
76

See Saad v. SEC, 718 F.3d 904, 906 (D.C. Cir. 2013); PAZ Sec., Inc. v. SEC, 494 F.3d
1059, 1064–65 (D.C. Cir. 2007).
77

See PAZ, 494 F.3d at 1065.

78

Capwest Sec., Inc., Exchange Act Release No. 71340, 2014 WL 198188, at *9 (Jan. 17,
2014) (citation omitted). FINRA adopted the Sanction Guidelines to ensure “greater
(continued…)

24
A. FINRA’s expulsion of DGI and bar of Dratel in all capacities was neither excessive
nor oppressive.
FINRA’s Sanction Guidelines recommend that adjudicators consider barring an
individual and expelling a firm for egregious cases of fraud.79 The Guidelines similarly
recommend a possible bar and expulsion for egregious violations of the recordkeeping
provisions.80 The sanctions that FINRA imposed fit within these recommendations and, for the
reasons below, are neither excessive nor oppressive.
Applicants’ violations were egregious. Their customers, many of whom were friends,
family, and long-term customers, entrusted Applicants with discretion and authority over their
accounts. Dratel knew this discretionary authority created a fiduciary duty between himself and
his customers.81 Rather than acting in good faith towards their customers, Applicants stole from
them by surreptitiously directing more profitable trades to themselves.82 By arguing that their
violations represented only a small fraction of their overall trading activity, Applicants seem to
imply that their violations were not widespread. But Applicants’ cherry picking occurred over
the course of at least twelve months, and involved a significant number of day and overnight
trades.
Several other aggravating factors also weigh in favor of a bar. First, Applicants’
violations demonstrated a high degree of scienter.83 Their cherry-picking scheme was done in a
calculating manner, as it “required specific preparation and the deliberate allocation of a
disproportionate number of profitable trades to [his] own account.”84 Dratel carried out this
calculated scheme to defraud his customers of profits and enrich himself. Dratel also admitted
that he knowingly withheld material information about the cherry picking from his customers.
And Applicants’ recordkeeping violations were intentional, as Dratel admitted that he
purposefully stamped blank order tickets, waited to complete order tickets, and directed his staff
(…continued)

consistency, uniformity, and fairness in the sanctions that are imposed for violations.” Richard
A. Neaton, Exchange Act Release 65598, 2011 WL 5001956, at *12 n.38 (Oct. 20, 2011).
79

FINRA Sanction Guidelines, at 88 (2013) (hereafter “Guidelines”).

80

See Guidelines, at 29.

81

See United States v. Skelly, 442 F.3d 94, 98 (2d Cir. 2006) (stating that a fiduciary duty
“[m]ost commonly . . . exists in situations in which a broker has discretionary authority over the
customer’s account”).
82

See, e.g., Dawson, 2010 WL 2886183, at *3 (finding applicant’s allocation of profitable
trades to himself and losing trades to his customers to be egregious misconduct that warranted a
bar); see also Guidelines, at 7 (Principal Consideration No. 18) (stating that adjudicators should
consider the character of transactions at issue).
83

See Guidelines, at 7 (Principal Consideration No. 13) (stating that adjudicators should
consider whether respondents’ misconduct was intentional, reckless, or negligent).
84

Dawson, 2010 WL 2886183, at *5.

25
to throw tickets away. Second, Applicants intentionally sought to mislead their regulator by
producing altered order tickets in the course of the investigation. This conduct both
demonstrates the extent to which Applicants were willing to go to avoid detection and
undermines FINRA’s ability to regulate its members.85 In fact, Applicants’ production of false
records to FINRA would warrant a bar and expulsion by itself.86
Third, the breadth of Applicants’ misconduct is an aggravating factor. Their actions
involved multiple violations, affected twenty-five different customer accounts, and occurred over
the course of at least a year.87 Their recurrent actions exposed the Discretionary Customers to
the potential for significant, ongoing losses, while earning illicit profits for themselves.88
Fourth, Applicants’ recordkeeping violations demonstrate an inability or unwillingness
to follow other regulatory requirements. Applicants characterize their recordkeeping violations
as mere “clerical mistakes” and claim that the evidence shows “an astonishingly good record of
accuracy by Dratel’s staff.” To the contrary, the evidence shows an institutional failure to
maintain accurate records. Dratel admitted, among other things, that he (or his staff, at his
direction) regularly stamped blank tickets, waited to complete those tickets until after trades were
completed, and threw records away. Dratel also was dismissive toward his regulatory
obligations, testifying that he did not keep records of his allocation instructions because he did
not run his business “as just a data collection center.”
Finally, Applicants’ misconduct fits within a broader pattern of noncompliance.89 In
November 2003, for example, DGI settled a disciplinary matter in which FINRA found that DGI

85

See, e.g., John Edward Mullins, Exchange Act Release No. 66373, 2012 WL 423413, at
*18 (Feb. 10, 2012) (affirming bar by considering aggravating factors, including that applicant
sought to conceal his conduct); Guidelines, at 6 (Principal Consideration No. 10) (stating that
adjudicators should consider whether respondents attempted to conceal their misconduct).
86

Cf. Geoffrey Ortiz, Exchange Act Release No. 58416, 2008 WL 3891311, at *9 (Aug. 22,
2008) (finding that a bar was appropriate where applicant provided false information to NASD
during an investigation, which “‘mislead[s] NASD and can conceal wrongdoing’ and thereby
‘subvert[s]’ NASD’s ability to perform its regulatory function and protect the public interest”
(quoting Michael A. Rooms, Exchange Act Release No. 51467, 2005 WL 742738, at *5 (Apr. 1,
2005), aff’d, 444 F.3d 1208 (10th Cir. 2006))).
87

See Guidelines, at 6 (Principal Consideration Nos. 8, 9) (stating that adjudicators should
consider whether respondents engaged in numerous acts or a pattern of misconduct and whether
the misconduct occurred over an extended period).
88

See William J. Murphy, Exchange Act Release No. 69923, 2013 WL 3327752, at *24
(July 2, 2013) (affirming FINRA’s imposition of a bar where applicant’s misconduct “benefitted
himself while injuring his customers”); Guidelines, at 6–7 (Principal Consideration Nos. 11, 17)
(stating that adjudicators should consider whether respondents’ misconduct resulted in customer
harm and the potential for gain for the respondents).
89

John Joseph Plunkett, Exchange Act Release No. 69766, 2013 WL 2898033, at *12 (June
14, 2013) (observing that “FINRA routinely considers an applicant’s disciplinary history in
(continued…)

26
had failed to report equity transactions timely, failed to disclose required information accurately,
failed to report time on order tickets completely, and failed to prepare certain order tickets
properly.90 In July 2006, Applicants settled a disciplinary matter in which FINRA found that
they had failed to timely report two customer complaints that they subsequently settled, failed to
amend and update Dratel’s Form U4, and failed to timely obtain an opinion of counsel
concerning a lawsuit that could have had a material impact on DGI’s net capital computation.91
Finally, in May 2015 FINRA found that Applicants committed numerous rule violations related
to the disclosure of liens and judgments, creation and preservation of order memoranda,
maintenance of books and records, and other fundamental regulatory requirements.92
Applicants argue that their disciplinary history is misleading and that neither of the two
settled proceedings “represent more than 10% of the complainant’s damage request” and that
“these were suits brought for their nuisance value and nothing more.” Applicants further
contend that the two settlements “had nothing to do with customers whatsoever” and that they
were “technical in nature.” Even if Applicants settled the two proceedings for reasons of
efficiency, they are part of Applicants’ disciplinary history, which “provides evidence of whether
an applicant’s misconduct is isolated, the sincerity of the applicant’s assurance that he will not
commit future violations and/or the egregiousness of the applicant’s misconduct.”93 Applicants’
settled matters ultimately are part of a pattern of regulatory failures that raise serious concerns
about Applicants’ ability to comply with their obligations in the future. 94 Even ignoring the two
(…continued)

determining the appropriate sanction”); Guidelines, at 2 (General Principle No. 2) (stating that
“[a]djudicators should always consider a respondent’s disciplinary history in determining
sanctions” and observing that “[a]n important objective of the disciplinary process is to deter and
prevent future misconduct by imposing progressively escalating sanctions on recidivists …
including barring registered persons and expelling firms”); Guidelines, at 6 (Principal
Consideration No. 1) (stating that adjudicators should consider “[t]he respondent’s relevant
disciplinary history” and citing General Principle No. 2).
90

The Dratel Group, Inc., NASD Case No. CLI030027 (Nov. 25, 2003).

91

The Dratel Group, Inc., NASD Case No. 2005001123301 (July 24, 2006).

92

Dep’t of Enforcement v. The Dratel Group, Inc., FINRA Discip. Proc.
No. 2009016317701, 2015 FINRA Discip. LEXIS 10, at *63–64 (May 6, 2015) (suspending
Dratel for twenty-five business days, jointly and severally fining Applicants $31,000, fining
Dratel an additional $5,000, fining the firm an additional $2,500, and ordering Applicants to pay
certain fees and costs).
93

Consolidated Inv. Servs., Inc., Exchange Act Release No. 36687, 1996 SEC LEXIS 83, at
*24 (Jan. 5, 1996); accord Midas Sec., LLC, Exchange Act Release No. 66200, 2012 WL
169138, at *16 (Jan. 20, 2012).
94

See, e.g., North Woodward Fin. Corp., Exchange Act Release No. 74913, 2015 WL
2151765, at *13 (May 8, 2015) (affirming FINRA’s imposition of a bar and expulsion where
FINRA found applicants’ disciplinary history, including a settled matter, to be an aggravating
factor).

27
settled matters, FINRA’s 2015 decision alone is evidence of Applicants’ inability to comply with
their regulatory obligations.
We also find no mitigating factors that weighed against the imposition of a bar. The
number of cherry-picked trades or percentage of trades that Applicants cherry picked is not a
mitigating factor. As FINRA correctly observed, Applicants must “comply with [FINRA’s] high
standards of conduct at all times.”95 And defrauding customers, no matter the frequency, may
warrant the imposition of severe sanctions.96
The letters and testimony that Applicants submitted from their customers are not
mitigating evidence. As we have repeatedly held, “we look beyond the interests of particular
investors in assessing the need for sanctions, to the protection of investors generally.”97
Although the customers opined about what they believe to be Dratel’s general honesty and
integrity, none of the customers indicated that they fully comprehended the seriousness of the
misconduct at issue.98

95

Rooms v. SEC, 444 F.3d 1208, 1214 (10th Cir. 2006); see also Donner Corp. Int’l,
Exchange Act Release No. 55313, 2007 WL 516282, at *11 (Feb. 20, 2007) (finding that
respondent’s “compliance with the law in some instances does not excuse its [other violations]”);
Robert Fitzpatrick, Exchange Act Release No. 44956, 2001 WL 1251680, at *6 (Oct. 19, 2001)
(finding that NASD “correctly ruled that prompt compliance with some requests for information
does not excuse dilatory compliance with other requests”).
96

See Keith Springer, Exchange Act Release No. 45439, 2002 WL 220611, at *8 (Feb. 13,
2002) (finding that fraud violations “go[] to the heart of the duties owed by a securities
professional to his investor clients”); Marshall E. Melton, Advisers Act Release No. 9865, 2003
WL 21729839, at *9 (July 25, 2003) (holding that “[c]onduct that violates the antifraud
provisions of the federal securities laws is especially serious and subject to the severest of
sanctions”).
97

Dawson, 2010 WL 2886183, at *4; see also Arthur Lipper Corp., Exchange Act Release
No. 11773, 1975 WL 163472, at *15 (Oct. 24, 1975) (stating that “we must weigh the effect of
our action or inaction on the welfare of investors as a class and on standards of conduct in the
securities business generally”).
98

See Dawson, 2010 WL 2886183, at *4 (rejecting respondent’s reliance on client letters
where it was “not clear from the letters that all of these clients fully comprehend the gravamen of
the misconduct at issue”).
Applicants’ also suggest that that FINRA exhibited prejudice and vindictiveness by not
considering what Applicants alleged was their favorable relationship with their customers.
Applicants emphasize their efforts to cover their customers’ losses in 2004 and 2005 with cross
trades, and claim that FINRA wrongly labeled these actions as a “negative.” FINRA reasonably
considered Dratel’s cross trades, correctly noting that the trades partly explained why his
customers had not suffered greater losses in 2004 and 2005, but reasonably found, as we do, that
the cross trades also contributed to Dratel’s increasingly strained financial situation and motive
to recoup his losses by cherry picking.

28
We reject Applicants’ argument that a bar and expulsion are inappropriately severe
relative to other cases. Applicants contrast their misconduct to other firms that they allege,
without citation, “are all still free to do business with customers after having admitted to
cheating their customers out of hundreds and hundreds of billions of dollars.” (Emphasis in
original). These unsupported references to other cases do not provide a basis for concluding that
FINRA’s sanctions were inappropriate.99
For these reasons, we find that Applicants pose a serious threat to investors, warranting
their bar and expulsion.100 These sanctions serve the remedial goals of general and specific
deterrence, encouraging Applicants and other securities professionals to comply with their
regulatory obligations.101 We accordingly find that FINRA’s imposition of sanctions is neither
excessive nor oppressive and serves the public interest and protects investors.
B. FINRA’s disgorgement is neither excessive nor oppressive.
We also affirm FINRA’s $489,000 disgorgement order. FINRA’s Guidelines state that
disgorgement generally should be ordered where, as here, the respondents had substantial illgotten gains.102 We have held that FINRA, in cases involving misconduct, may require
respondents to disgorge their entire financial benefit.103 Determining the amount of that

99

See 17 C.F.R. § 201.450(b) (requiring that all exceptions to the findings or conclusions
under review “shall be supported by . . . concise argument including citation of such statutes,
decisions and other authorities as may be relevant”).
100

See, e.g., Mission Sec. Corp., Exchange Act Release No. 63453, 2010 WL 5092727, at
*14 (Dec. 7, 2010) (holding that “applicants’ demonstrated lack of fitness to be in the securities
industry . . . supports the remedial purpose to be served by [a bar and expulsion]”); Dawson,
2010 WL 2886183, at *6 (finding respondent’s lack of appreciation for the wrongful nature of
his misconduct indicative of a potential for recurrence).
101

See PAZ Sec., 494 F.3d at 1066 (“‘[G]eneral deterrence is not, by itself, sufficient
justification for expulsion or suspension . . . [but] may be considered as part of the overall
remedial inquiry.’” (quoting McCarthy v. SEC, 406 F.3d 179, 189 (2d Cir. 2005))); see, e.g.,
Arthur Lipper, 1975 WL 163472, at *15 (finding that a bar was “necessary to provide the
deterrent effect” because “to be truly remedial, [the proceedings] must have a deterrent effect on
other investment company managers who may be tempted to enrich themselves at the expense of
their beneficiaries”).
102

See Guidelines, at 10 (Technical Matters); see also Michael David Sweeney, Exchange
Act Release No. 29884, 1991 WL 716756, at *5 (Oct. 30, 1991) (“[D]isgorgement is intended to
force wrongdoers to give up the amount by which they were unjustly enriched.”).
103

See, e.g., Anthony A. Grey, Exchange Act Release No. 75839, 2015 WL 5172955, at *12
(Sept. 3, 2015) (citing Guidelines, at 5 (“In cases in which the record demonstrates that the
respondent obtained a financial benefit from his or her misconduct, where appropriate to
remediate misconduct, Adjudicators may require the disgorgement of such ill-gotten gains by
fining away the amount of some or all of the financial benefit derived, directly or indirectly.”)).

29
disgorgement “does not require precision.”104 Rather, “calculating disgorgement must recognize
that separating legal from illegal profits exactly may at times be a near-impossible task.”105 The
amount of disgorgement therefore needs to be only “a reasonable approximation” of the illgotten gains causally connected to the violation.106
Dratel acknowledges that he generated profits of approximately $489,000 in his personal
account through day and overnight trading in 2006. Although some of those profits may have
flowed from legal trades, some of the profits also flowed directly from Dratel’s illegal cherry
picking. It is nearly impossible to separate the two because of the deceptive nature of Dratel’s
misconduct, including his failure to maintain accurate records, his falsification of documents,
and his use of inaccurate date and time stamps on trade tickets.107 In those circumstances, we
find that Dratel’s 2006 day-trading profits are a reasonable approximation of his unjust
enrichment. Dratel does not challenge that calculation on appeal, and therefore failed to meet his
burden of showing that the amount of disgorgement is not a reasonable approximation.108 We

104

K. W. Brown, 555 F. Supp. 2d at 1312.

105

SEC v. First City Fin. Corp., Ltd., 890 F.2d 1215, 1231 (D.C. Cir. 1989).

106

Id.

107

See, e.g., supra note 5and accompanying text (discussing the difficulty of detecting
cherry picking); First City Fin. Corp., 890 F.2d at 1231 (holding that “disgorgement need only
be a reasonable approximation of profits causally connected to the violation” and any risk of
uncertainty in calculating disgorgement is borne by the wrongdoer that created that uncertainty);
SEC v. Balboa, No. 11 Civ. 8731(PAC), 2015 WL 4092328, at *4 (S.D.N.Y. July 6, 2015)
(ordering disgorgement of commissions where defendant’s illegal conduct “directly created” the
uncertainty of distinguishing between legally and illegally derived profits); Guy P. Riordan,
Exchange Act Release No. 61153, 2009 WL 4731397, at *21 (Dec. 11, 2009) (ordering
disgorgement in kickback scheme despite fact that “it was not possible to separate out individual
transactions awarded to Riordan and conclude that they were not obtained by the kickback
scheme simply because they were not linked to specific kickbacks”), petition denied, 627 F.3d
1230 (Dec. 28, 2010).
108

See Zacharias v. SEC, 569 F.3d 458, 472–73 (D.C. Cir. 2009) (observing that, where
disgorgement cannot be exact, the “well-established principle is that the burden of uncertainty in
calculating ill-gotten gains falls on the wrongdoers who created that uncertainty”); SEC v. Lorin,
76 F.3d 458, 462 (2d Cir. 2006) (holding that “[w]here disgorgement calculations cannot be
exact, ‘any risk of uncertainty . . . should fall on the wrongdoer whose illegal conduct created
that uncertainty’” (quoting SEC v. Patel, 61 F.3d 137, 140 (2d Cir. 1995))).

30
therefore find that FINRA’s order for Dratel to disgorge his $489,000 in profits, plus
prejudgment interest,109 is neither excessive nor oppressive and serves the remedial purpose of
depriving him of the benefit of his misconduct.110
An appropriate order will issue.111
By the Commission (Chair WHITE and Commissioners STEIN and PIWOWAR).

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

109

See Terence Michael Coxon, Exchange Act Release No. 48385, 2003 WL 21991359,
at *14 (Aug. 21, 2003) (“[E]xcept in the most unique and compelling circumstances,
prejudgment interest should be awarded on disgorgement, among other things, in order to deny a
wrongdoer the equivalent of an interest free loan from the wrongdoer’s victims.”), aff’d, 137 F.
App’x 975 (9th Cir. 2005).
110

Cf. Sweeney, 1991 WL 716756, at *5 (“[D]isgorgement is intended to force wrongdoers
to give up the amount by which they were unjustly enriched.”). Applicants do not challenge
FINRA's order that they pay costs totaling $18,611.60, which we also sustain.
111

We have considered all of the parties’ contentions. We have rejected or sustained them
to the extent that they are inconsistent or in accord with the views expressed in this opinion.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77396 / March 17, 2016
Admin. Proc. File No. 3-15869

In the Matter of the Application of
THE DRATEL GROUP, INC.
and
WILLIAM M. DRATEL
for Review of Action Taken by
FINRA

ORDER SUSTAINING DISCIPLINARY ACTION
On the basis of the Commission’s opinion issued this day, it is
ORDERED that the disciplinary action taken by FINRA against The Dratel Group, Inc.,
and William M. Dratel, and the assessment of costs imposed, is sustained.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

