UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78877 / September 19, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17070

In the Matter of
ORDER MAKING FINDINGS AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A
CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER, PURSUANT
TO SECTIONS 15(b) AND 21C OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS
TO RESPONDENT DAVID PROLMAN

3C ADVISORS &
ASSOCIATES, INC.,
STEPHEN JONES, and
DAVID PROLMAN
Respondents.

I.
On January 27, 2016, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) instituted
public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings pursuant to Sections 15(b) and 21C of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against 3C Advisors & Associates, Inc. (“3C”),
Stephen Jones (“Jones”), and David Prolman (“Prolman”) (collectively “Respondents”)
II.
Respondent Prolman has submitted an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”), which the
Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other
proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and
without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over
him and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein
in Section V, Respondent Prolman consents to the entry of this Order Making Findings and
Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order, Pursuant to Sections 15(b) and 21C
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as to Respondent David Prolman (“Order”), as set forth
below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Prolman’s Offer, the Commission finds1 that:
A.

Summary

From 2013 through December 2015, Prolman willfully aided and abetted and caused 3C’s
violation of Section 15(a) of the Exchange Act by engaging in unregistered broker activity.
Through 3C, Prolman solicited small- and medium-sized businesses by marketing “capital advisory
services.” In particular, 3C held itself out as “arrang[ing] private placement of debt and equity
securities” and facilitating capital raises. 3C undertook extensive responsibilities for its customers
including analyzing customers’ financial needs, recommending and designing financing methods,
playing a role in negotiations with capital sources, and making recommendations about proposed
funding terms. Moreover, 3C’s engagement agreements provided that its customers pay
performance fees which were calculated as a percentage of the capital raised, with greater potential
payouts for equity investments. Thus, 3C falls within the definition of a “broker” because 3C is
“engaged in the business of effecting transactions in securities for the account of others.” Prolman
willfully aided and abetted and caused the firm’s violation of Section 15(a) of the Exchange Act, by
engaging in such broker conduct through 3C without registering as a broker or associating with a
registered broker.
B.

Respondents

1.
3C is a California corporation headquartered in Rancho Santa Fe, California, which
was launched in June 2010. 3C provides a range of consulting services to small- and mid-sized
companies including the capital advisory services at issue in this action.
2.
Jones is a resident of Rancho Santa Fe, California. Jones founded 3C in June 2010
and is 3C’s senior managing director. Jones has never held any securities licenses. Prior to
launching 3C, Jones performed valuation analysis, litigation support, and restructuring consulting
for over two decades at several consulting firms. Jones’s positions at two of these firms, were
within those firms’ registered broker-dealer segments, but he never obtained a securities license
and did not perform any of the transactional and capital advisory services provided by those firms.
3.
Prolman is a resident of Solana Beach, California. In June 2013, Prolman joined
3C as a senior managing director and leader of capital advisory services. Prolman has never held
any securities licenses. Prior to joining 3C, Prolman had three decades’ experience in providing
consulting services including financial, operational and corporate management, capital finance,
growth strategies, turnarounds, loan workouts, and bankruptcy reorganizations.

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent Prolman’s Offer of Settlement and are
not binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.
1

2

C.

Background

4.
In June 2010, Jones organized 3C as a holding company with the goal of providing
comprehensive consulting services through various sub-LLCs, each independently operated by
consultants with whom Jones was affiliated. In addition to the valuation services and litigation
consulting that Jones himself provided, he planned to have 3C offer “capital advisory services”
under a sub-LLC known as the “Capital Advisory LLC.”
5.
The capital advisory services business did not commence until Prolman joined the
firm in June 2013, operating as a segment of 3C rather than as a separate LLC. Upon joining the
firm, Prolman prepared a business plan for the capital advisory services segment, which included an
“industry overview and competitive analysis” identifying six competing firms, all of which were
registered broker-dealers.
6.
Since Prolman joined 3C, the firm has touted its capital advisory business segment.
3C has taken on at least five engagements to perform capital advisory services since Prolman’s
arrival, and has earned approximately $160,000 in compensation for such services during this time
frame.
D.

3C’s Capital Advisory Services Business

7.
3C has solicited customers for its capital advisory services online, in one-on-one
presentations with prospective customers, and at industry conferences. 3C also has marketed its
capital advisory services to law firms that would then introduce 3C to potential customers for the
services.
8.
According to 3C’s website and other marketing materials, under 3C’s capital
advisory services business segment, the firm offered broker services for its customers including
private placement of debt and equity securities, acquisition financing, growth capital,
recapitalizations, and restructuring.
9.
3C’s capital advisory proposals and agreements were based on standard language,
initially prepared by Prolman at his prior firm and adopted by 3C. As with the firm’s marketing
materials, the agreements indicated that 3C was offering to perform broker services for its
customers.
10.
For example, in August 2013, 3C initiated an engagement with Company A, an
investment company, for purposes of “identifying and introducing you to total capital liquidity in an
amount approaching $35,000,000” in connection with an acquisition of a medical manufacturing
company. 3C indicated it would “[f]ind and introduce [q]ualified [c]apital [s]ources,” “assist[] you
in the determination of an appropriate capital structure for the Company on a go forward basis,” and
“assist[] you in connection with the preparation and dissemination, as appropriate, of confidential
materials for any potential or actual [t]ransaction.”
11.
In the proposal for Company A and several of 3C’s other engagements, 3C agreed to
“assist[] you in all phases of the negotiation process, including establishment of price, terms and
structure.”
3

E.

Transaction-Based Compensation for Capital Advisory Services

12.
3C’s agreements required capital advisory services customers to pay a combination
of flat fee retainers and performance-based success fees, which entitled 3C to a percentage of any
successful fund raising efforts. Certain of 3C’s contracts assigned a higher percentage for the
performance fee upon equity versus debt financing.
13.
For example, one customer agreed to pay an initial retainer fee of $15,000 along
with a performance fee of 4% of the funded investment amount with respect to the issuance of any
equity securities (which dropped to 2% if any debt instruments were issued).
14.
At least one of 3C’s capital advisory services engagements, an engagement for a
restaurant franchising business, Company B, resulted in a successful debt financing arrangement for
the customer with funds provided by a capital source identified by 3C. For the Company B
engagement, 3C received $125,000, of which $90,000 constituted a performance fee amounting to
roughly 1% of the total funding.
15.
Between 2013 when Prolman joined 3C through 2014, 3C collected roughly
$160,000 in fees from five customers for its capital advisory services, including $90,000 of which
was transaction-based compensation. During that time frame, the firm received total revenue from
its services of $517,420.32. Thus, over a quarter of 3C’s revenue during this period was generated
through fees from its capital advisory engagements.
F.

Broker Conduct During Capital Advisory Services Engagements

16.
For each of its capital advisory services customers, 3C analyzed the customer’s
funding needs and advised the customer regarding funding options. For example, 3C, through
Jones, prepared a document analyzing one of its customer’s funding structure. 3C, through
Prolman, also performed a review of that customer’s overall financial condition in which Prolman
commented on the customer’s forecast model and supporting data for inconsistencies, missing data,
and assumptions. Prolman also gave informal advice to 3C’s customers regarding desired funding
structure, potential return on investment for equity investments, and advice about the appropriate
amounts of funding to seek.
17.
For each of its capital advisory services customers, 3C also prepared materials to
attract capital sources on behalf of its customers. This included creating marketing books with
details about the customer and the customer’s desired funding. 3C, through Prolman, also generated
so-called “teasers,” which contained summaries of the marketing books. For some of the
engagements, 3C edited materials generated by the customer, and for other engagements, 3C drafted
the materials.
18.
For at least two of its customers, 3C, through Prolman, also engaged in outreach to
potential capital sources, including disseminating the marketing books and teasers described above.
When Prolman sent the materials to potential capital sources, he targeted sources drawn from his
industry contacts and from referrals from the intermediaries with which 3C collaborated. Prolman
also conferred with the customers to identify and pre-screen potential capital sources that fit the
funding goals. If the potential capital source expressed interest in the project, 3C’s outreach also
4

included facilitating introductions between the customer and the capital source. Prolman was
present during meetings between customers and capital sources, and on at least one instance
Prolman acknowledged responding to substantive questions from a potential capital source during
such a meeting.
19.
Finally, for at least two of its customers, 3C also played a role in negotiating terms
of the funding. Capital sources corresponded with both the customer and Prolman while crafting
potential deal terms during the two engagements. Even where 3C’s personnel were not present
during meetings with capital sources regarding deal terms, Prolman and Jones advised the
customers as to the terms’ advisability. 3C also corresponded with the capital sources separately
from the customer during the course of negotiations to ascertain the status of the pending deal and
shared these updates with the customer.
G.

Inadequate Attempts to Remediate Non-Registration

20.
In October 2014, after receiving a subpoena from the Commission, 3C removed
references to its capital advisory services from its website. However, after October 2014, the firm
took on another capital advisory engagement raising capital for a distressed company.
21.
Additionally, after October 2014, Jones and Prolman sought advice from counsel
regarding the need for registration. 3C, Jones, and Prolman took steps to sit for the Series 79
(investment banking representative) exam and obtain registered status by establishing an
association with a registered firm. To date, however, 3C, Jones, and Prolman, remain unregistered
and still have no association with any registered entity.
H.

Violations

22.
As a result of the conduct described above, Prolman willfully aided and abetted and
caused 3C’s violation of Section 15(a) of the Exchange Act, which prohibits a broker from making
use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce to effect any transactions
in, or to induce or attempt to induce the purchase or sale of securities without being registered as
broker or associated with a registered broker.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate, in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Sections 15(b)(6) and 21C of the Exchange Act, it is hereby
ORDERED that:
A.
Prolman shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any
future violations of Section 15(a) of the Exchange Act.
B.

Respondent Prolman be, and hereby is:

5

suspended from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser,
municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally
recognized statistical rating organization for a period of twelve (12) months,
effective on the second Monday following the entry of this Order; and
suspended from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including:
acting as a promoter, finder, consultant, agent or other person who
engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for purposes of the
issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce
the purchase or sale of any penny stock for a period of twelve (12)
months, effective on the second Monday following the entry of this Order.
C.
Respondent shall, within 30 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money
penalty in the amount of $7,500.00 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the
general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If timely
payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717.
D.

Payment must be made in one of the following ways:
(1)

Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which
will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

(2)

Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
E.
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter
identifying Prolman as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these
proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Dabney
O’Riordan, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 444 S. Flower Street,
Suite 900, Los Angeles, CA 90071.
F.
Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor
Action, they shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall they benefit by, offset or reduction of
6

any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil
penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a
Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that he shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting
the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the
Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall not be deemed
an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty
imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” means a
private damages action brought against Respondent, by or on behalf of one or more investors based
on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this
proceeding.
V.
It is further Ordered that, for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 523 of
the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by
Respondent, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other
amounts due by Respondent under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree
or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by
Respondent of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set
forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19).
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

7

