UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78625 / August 22, 2016
Admin. Proc. File No. 3-17344

In the Matter of

ORDER EXTENDING BRIEFING
SCHEDULE

LI-LIN HSU

On July 1, 2016, the Commission received an application for review by Li-Lan Hsu of
action taken against her by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (“FINRA”). As a
result, the Commission issued an Order Scheduling Briefs on August 5, 2016, in which the
Commission ordered that a brief in support of the application for review be filed by September 6,
2016, a brief in opposition be filed by October 6, 2016, and any reply brief be filed by October
20, 2016.
On August 8, 2016, FINRA filed a Motion to Dismiss Hsu’s Application for Review and
to Stay Briefing Schedule with the Commission. In its motion, FINRA requests that the
Commission dismiss Hsu’s application because she failed to exhaust her administrative remedies
before FINRA. FINRA also requests that the Commission stay briefing in this matter while its
motion to dismiss is pending. Hsu has not filed an opposition to FINRA’s motion.
We construe FINRA’s request to be one for an extension of the briefing schedule
pursuant to Commission Rule of Practice 161.1 Under Rule 161(b), the factors the Commission
must consider in determining whether to grant any extensions of time as relevant here are (i) the
length of the proceeding to date, (ii) the number of postponements, adjournments, or extensions
already granted, (iii) the stage of the proceedings at the time of the request, and (iv) any other
such matters as justice may require.2
FINRA requested an extension approximately one month after Hsu filed her petition for
review, and no previous extensions have occurred to date. Extending the briefing schedule in
this matter would also promote administrative efficiency, since briefing would not be necessary
if the Commission were to grant FINRA’s motion to dismiss and, conversely, the proceeding
would not be unduly delayed if the Commission were to deny FINRA’s motion.

1

17 C.F.R. § 201.161.

2

17 C.F.R. § 201.161(b).

2
Accordingly, IT IS ORDERED that FINRA’s request to extend the briefing schedule in
this proceeding until the Commission rules on FINRA’s motion to dismiss be, and it hereby is,
granted.
For the Commission, by the Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

