ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17240
SEC CHARGES HOUSTON-BASED AUDIT FIRM AND ENGAGEMENT PARTNER
WITH IMPROPER PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT IN AUDIT OF PENNY-STOCK FIRM
May 2, 2016 – The Securities and Exchange Commission today charged Houston-based audit
firm MaloneBailey LLP and former audit partner Jay Phillip Norris with engaging in improper
professional conduct while auditing fiscal year 2011 financial statements of Left Behind Games
Inc., a penny-stock company that sold religious-themed video games.
An SEC investigation found that MaloneBailey and Norris violated Rule 2-02(b)(1) of
Regulation S-X because they issued an audit report stating that they had conducted the audit in
accordance with PCAOB Standards when they had not. According to the SEC’s order instituting
settled administrative proceedings, approximately 88 percent of revenues recorded for Left
Behind Games that year resulted from purported sales to one company, Lighthouse Distributors.
MaloneBailey and Norris identified revenue recognition as an area requiring heightened scrutiny
and further identified what appeared to be circular sham transactions between Left Behind
Games and the principal of Lighthouse, Ronald Zaucha, a former Left Behind Games consultant
and close friend of Left Behind Games principal Troy Lyndon. But the filings went forward
despite these and numerous additional red flags present, including that Lyndon and Zaucha
altered language proposed by MaloneBailey and Norris for inclusion in audit documents and the
Form 10-K to be filed with the Commission.
MaloneBailey agreed to settle the charges by paying more than $160,000 to settle the SEC’s
charges, including a $100,000 penalty, disgorgement of the $54,000 in fees collected from the
audit, and interest of $7,519.35. MaloneBailey was also censured and must retain an
independent consultant and agreed to a number of other undertakings outlined in the SEC’s
order.
Norris agreed to be suspended from appearing and practicing before the SEC as an accountant,
which includes not participating in the financial reporting or audits of public companies. The
SEC’s order permits Norris to apply for reinstatement after three years. Norris also agreed to
pay a $10,000 penalty.
MaloneBailey and Norris neither admitted nor denied the SEC’s findings. Both were ordered to
cease and desist from future violations of Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X.
The SEC previously charged Lyndon and Zaucha alleging violations of, among other provisions,
the securities registration and antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws, and obtained
permanent injunctions and other relief against them in a litigated federal district court action.
SEC v. Troy Lyndon and Ronald Zaucha, CV 13-00486 SOM-KSC (D. Hawaii).

1

The SEC’s investigation of Left Behind Games, Lyndon, and Zaucha was conducted by Lucee
Kirka and Carol Shau and supervised by Marc Blau, and the litigation against Lyndon and
Zaucha was conducted by trial counsel Karen Matteson, all of the Los Angeles office. The
SEC’s investigation of the auditors was completed by Karen Matteson and supervised by John
Berry.
See also: Order

2

