UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78682 / August 25, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17505
In the Matter of

ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

KIERAN T. KUHN,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Kieran T. Kuhn
(“Respondent” or “Kuhn”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s
jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the findings contained in
paragraphs III.2 and III.4 below, and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative
Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings,
and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Between in or about June 2011 and January 2014, Kuhn defrauded investors in
Casablanca Mining Ltd. (“Casablanca”) and Lustros Inc. (“Lustros”), issuers with common stock
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act that were subject to Exchange Act

reporting obligations pursuant to Section 13(a). Among other things, Kuhn received transactionbased compensation in the form of undisclosed commissions from Casablanca’s and Lustros’s
principal, Izak Zirk de Maison (f/k/a Izak Zirk Engelbrecht) (“Engelbrecht”), to solicit investments
in Casablanca’s and Lustros’s securities. Kuhn did so without being registered with the
Commission as a broker or dealer. Kuhn, 34 years old, is a resident of Port Washington, New
York.
Respondent participated in an offering of Casablanca stock, which was a penny
stock.
2.
On December 12, 2015, a final judgment was entered by consent against
Respondent, permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 5 and 17(a) of the
Securities Act of 1933, and Sections 9(a), 10(b), and 15(a)(1) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5
thereunder in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Jason Cope et al.,
Civil Action Number 14 Civ. 7575, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of
New York.
3.
The Commission’s Amended Complaint alleged that Respondent defrauded
investors by, inter alia, accepting undisclosed commissions from Engelbrecht to solicit investors to
buy Lustros securities. The Amended Complaint also alleged that Respondent sold unregistered
securities and solicited investors to purchase Casablanca and Lustros securities without being
registered with the Commission as a broker or dealer.
4.
On September 18, 2015, Respondent pled guilty to one count of conspiracy to
commit securities fraud, 18 U.S.C. § 1348, and wire fraud, 18 U.S.C. § 1343, in violation of 18
U.S.C. § 1349, before the United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, in United
States v. Kieran T. Kuhn, Crim. Information No. 1:15-cr-288.
5.
The count of the criminal information to which Respondent pled guilty alleged,
inter alia, that Respondent conspired (i) to defraud persons in connection with the securities of an
issuer and to obtain money and property by means of false and fraudulent pretenses in connection
with the purchase and sale of securities; and (ii) to transmit and cause the transmission by means of
wire communications in interstate commerce writings, signs, signals, and pictures for the purpose
of executing a scheme and artifice to defraud investors.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Kuhn’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act,
that Respondent Kuhn be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer,
investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally
recognized statistical rating organization; and
2

Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent Kuhn be, and hereby is
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder,
consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for
purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the
purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

