UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78776 / September 7, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4524 / September 7, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17529
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
AND SECTION 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
EDUARDO GUILLERMO
DIAZ,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Section 203(f) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Eduardo Guillermo Diaz
(“Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s
jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the findings contained in
paragraph III.2 below, and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative
Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 203(f) of

the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions
(“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Beginning in December 2008 until his termination in October 2012, Diaz was a
registered representative associated with a broker-dealer and investment adviser dually registered
with the Commission. Starting in late November 2012, Diaz briefly associated with another
broker-dealer and an investment adviser, affiliated with one another and registered with the
Commission, until he was terminated on January 9, 2013. Diaz, age 58, was a resident of Ocean
Springs, Mississippi during the relevant time.
2.
On March 22, 2016, Diaz pled guilty to one count of mail fraud in violation of Title
18 United States Code, Section 1341 before the United States District Court for the Southern
District of Mississippi in United States v. Eduardo Guillermo Diaz, Crim. No. 1:15cr68-LG-RHG.
On June 22, 2016, a judgment in the criminal case was entered against Diaz. He was sentenced to
a prison term of 70 months followed by three years of supervised release and ordered to pay a fine
of $15,000 and to make restitution in the amount of $641,435.88.
3.

In connection with that plea, Respondent admitted that:
(a) From approximately February 2012 through October 2015, he devised a scheme
to defraud investors to obtain money for his own personal use;
(b) As part of the scheme, he employed material false representations and promises;
(c) Diaz solicited significant sums of money from clients, several of whom were
prior business relationships and friends;
(d) He also used investors’ money to pay off previous investors; and
(e) In one instance, on or about February 23, 2012, an investor wrote a check for
$50,000 and mailed it to Diaz for the purpose of purchasing an annuity. None
of the money was invested in an annuity. Instead, Diaz deposited the check into
an account in the name of Diaz Financial Services and the funds were converted
to Diaz and subsequently used to pay a variety of personal and business related
expenses.
IV.

In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Diaz’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act,
and Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act, that Respondent Diaz be, and hereby is barred from
association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal
advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating organization; and
2

Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent Diaz be, and hereby is
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder,
consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for
purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the
purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

