UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 79083 / October 12, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4548 / October 12, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17622
ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
AND CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 15(b) AND 21C
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934 AND SECTION 203(e) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASEAND-DESIST ORDER

In the Matter of
DEUTSCHE BANK
SECURITIES INC.,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted pursuant to Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange
Act”) and Section 203(e) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. (“Respondent” or “DBSI”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 15(b) and 21C of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 203(e) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940,
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as
set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds1 that:
SUMMARY
1.
This matter concerns three separate violations of the federal securities laws by
DBSI: (1) the failure to establish, maintain, and enforce policies and procedures reasonably
designed to prevent the misuse of material, nonpublic information generated by its equity research
analysts, in violation of Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act; (2) the publication of a research report
that was falsely certified as accurately reflecting the lead analyst’s view regarding the covered
company, in violation of Rule 501 of Regulation Analyst Certification (“Regulation AC”); and (3)
the failure to preserve and furnish promptly to the Commission staff certain electronic
communications relating to DBSI’s business as a broker and dealer, in violation of Section 17(a) of
the Exchange Act and Rule 17a-4 thereunder.
2.
From at least January 2012 through December 2014 (“the relevant period”), DBSI
failed to establish, maintain, and enforce policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent its
equity research analysts from misusing material, nonpublic information by, among other things,
disclosing analysts’ as yet unpublished views and analyses that appeared in subsequent DBSI
research reports, certain changes of estimates by analysts, and short term trading recommendations
that were inconsistent with the analysts’ published long term ratings. The risk that material,
nonpublic information could be misused was heightened by deficiencies in DBSI’s policies and
procedures pertaining to communications between DBSI’s equity research analysts and DBSI
customers and DBSI sales and trading personnel. In particular, although DBSI had certain policies
and procedures and training in place for its equity research analysts, DBSI failed to establish,
maintain, and enforce policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent its equity research
analysts from disclosing material, nonpublic information to DBSI customers and DBSI sales and
trading personnel through various customer interactions and internal communications with DBSI
sales and trading personnel.
3.
DBSI violated the analyst certification requirement of Regulation AC. On March
29, 2012, DBSI issued a research report prepared and certified by a senior equity research analyst
that was inconsistent with the analyst’s personally held view. In the research report, the analyst
rated the covered company’s stock a “BUY,” and certified that his recommendation reflected his
personal views. In fact, however, the “BUY” recommendation was inconsistent with the analyst’s
personal view that the company should have been downgraded.
4.
DBSI also failed to preserve, maintain, and timely produce to the Commission staff
certain electronic communications that had been conducted on an internal DBSI messaging system,
in violation of the record keeping requirements of Section 17(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 17a4 thereunder.

1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.

2

5.
Accordingly, DBSI willfully violated Sections 15(g) and 17(a) of the Exchange Act
and Rule 17a-4 thereunder and Rule 501 of Regulation AC.
RESPONDENT
6.
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., a Delaware corporation with its principal executive
offices in New York, New York, is a broker-dealer and investment adviser registered with the
Commission pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act and Section 203 of the Advisers Act.
DBSI is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Deutsche Bank AG, a foreign private issuer whose
stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and trades
on the New York Stock Exchange.
FACTS
A.

DBSI’s Equity Research

7.
DBSI’s equity research department is comprised of approximately fifty research
analysts covering almost nine hundred stocks traded in the United States. DBSI’s equity research
analysts provide the firm’s customers with investment recommendations and analysis on public
companies and their stocks through published research reports. For each covered company, DBSI
analysts publish reports that include an investment rating that reflects their twelve-month view of
the stock’s performance, a price target that they expect the stock to reach in twelve months, and
estimates of the company’s expected upcoming quarterly and annual earnings. During the relevant
period, DBSI utilized a three-category investment rating system: BUY, HOLD, and SELL. DBSI
equity research reports are sent to DBSI customers electronically and made available to DBSI
customers on DBSI’s website. DBSI research reports also are made available to others through
third-party research service providers.
8.
DBSI also allowed its equity research analysts to publish short term trade ideas on
a DBSI website named “SOLAR,” which is accessible to all DBSI customers. DBSI’s policies
and procedures required that these short term trade ideas be aligned with the analyst’s published
long term investment rating for that security, unless the analyst had a published long term rating
of HOLD, in which case a short term trade idea was permitted to be either a BUY or SELL.2
9.
During the relevant period, DBSI encouraged its equity research analysts to have
frequent contact with DBSI customers and DBSI sales and trading personnel. Accordingly, DBSI
equity research analysts communicated regularly with both DBSI customers and DBSI sales and
trading personnel by telephone, email, instant messaging, and in-person to answer questions about
the public companies and the industries and industry sectors that the analysts covered. DBSI had
policies and procedures, and trained its research analysts, on how to engage in such
communications, including that they must speak consistently with their published views. DBSI

2

DBSI’s policies and procedures expressly stated that “if the underlying recommendation is a BUY, the [short
term recommendation] may only be a BUY” and “if the underlying recommendation is a SELL, the [short term
recommendation] may only be a SELL.”

3

sales and trading personnel conveyed information that they had learned from DBSI equity research
analysts to DBSI customers.
10.
DBSI’s performance evaluation and compensation system for its equity research
analysts, during the relevant period, took into consideration customer assessments of DBSI’s
research analysts.3 DBSI measured customer satisfaction with its research analysts based, in part,
on certain independent surveys of investors and other consumers of equity research, such as the
Institutional Investor magazine’s “All-America Research Team” and Greenwich Associates’
“Greenwich Research Team Survey,” as well as votes that each analyst received directly from
institutional investors through a process known as “broker votes.” These three rankings accounted
for more than forty percent of an analyst’s internal performance rating, making them when
combined the largest component of a research analyst’s performance evaluation. One DBSI
analyst acknowledged a customer’s positive appraisal of his work and the customer’s vote for him
in the Institutional Investor poll, by responding in an email: “[I]t’s how we get ‘paid,’ so thanks
very much.” This evaluation and compensation structure created a risk that DBSI equity research
analysts would share their potentially market-moving nonpublic views about covered companies
with DBSI customers.
11.
Many institutional investors rate research analysts and other “sell side” brokerdealer personnel by assigning “broker votes” to those whom they want to reward for good service,
and then allocate their trading, and resulting commissions, to the firms whose personnel they have
rated the most highly. DBSI research analysts were aware of the importance that DBSI placed on
broker votes and investor surveys. For example, in early March 2012, DBSI held an equity
research analyst meeting to emphasize to DBSI’s research analysts and sales personnel the
importance of Institutional Investor votes to DBSI. Slides used during the meeting, and
subsequently distributed to DBSI’s analysts, described a campaign that DBSI intended to conduct
to generate Institutional Investor votes for the firm and its employees with the goal of becoming a
top five bank in Institutional Investor voting.
B.

DBSI Failed to Establish, Maintain, and Enforce Policies and Procedures That Were
Reasonably Designed to Prevent DBSI Equity Research Analysts from Disclosing
Material, Nonpublic Information Regarding, Among Other Things, Their Views and
Analyses of Covered Companies

12.
During the relevant period, DBSI’s policies and procedures governing the conduct
of its equity research department were primarily set forth in two documents: (1) “Research Policies
and Procedures Manual – Markets US” (“Research Manual”) and (2) the “Research Integrity and
Cross-Divisional Interactions Policy – Corporate and Investment Bank” (“CIB”). These documents
included, in some instances, overlapping policies and procedures. During the relevant period, DBSI
equity research analysts also received training on the firm’s policies and procedures, including
3

NASD Rule 2711(d)(2), which was in effect during the relevant period, required broker dealers to consider,
among other things, “the overall ratings received from clients, sales force, and peers independent of the member’s
investment banking department, and other independent ratings services” in determining the compensation of their
research analysts. The rule did not, however, prescribe the relative weight that a firm ought to assign to any of the
factors.

4

during mandatory annual compliance trainings for equity research personnel, and also received
training and email alerts regarding emerging compliance issues.
i.

Analysts’ Views and Analyses Intended for Publication in Forthcoming DBSI
Research Reports and Estimate Changes of Less Than Ten Percent

13.
DBSI’s policies and procedures required the broad public dissemination of all DBSI
research reports. To ensure simultaneous public dissemination, DBSI’s policies and procedures
generally prohibited equity research analysts from sharing forthcoming research, deemed “research
in process,” with anyone outside of the firm’s equity research department. DBSI’s policies and
procedures also required equity research analysts to publish a research report before sharing a
“change in view, recommendation, rating, price target or estimate” with select DBSI customers and
DBSI sales and trading personnel. These policies and procedures, which were designed to prevent
the misuse of material, nonpublic information generated by DBSI’s equity research analysts, were
not reasonably designed in two key respects.
14.
DBSI’s written policies and procedures stated that “research in process” includes
two periods (1) “the time frame beginning the moment an analyst begins drafting a report and
ending when the report is published,” as well as (2) an “earlier time period … beginning when an
analyst has definitely decided to publish a report and has a developed thesis for that report.” This
policy, however, was susceptible to differing interpretations.4
15.
For example, DBSI compliance and equity research personnel who were
responsible for providing guidance and training to analysts and others on DBSI’s policies and
procedures believed that “research in process” did not exist until an equity research analyst had a
developed thesis for a forthcoming research report, regardless of whether the analyst or the
analyst’s team had decided to publish a research report or even begun drafting a research report, as
stated in the first prong of DBSI’s written policy. Similarly, a senior equity research analyst
(“Analyst A”) claimed that because he had not yet developed an investment thesis following a nondeal road show, his team did not have “research in process” even after he had directed a junior
analyst who reported to him to begin drafting a research report that they intended to publish two
days later. In the meantime, Analyst A proceeded to speak with DBSI customers regarding his
materially changed views of the issuer.
16.
DBSI’s policies and procedures stated that analysts “must safeguard research in
process” and that research in process “must not be shared with clients or potential clients (external
or internal) prior to publishing.” DBSI’s policies and procedures also directed equity research
analysts to “take steps to ensure that the contents of a pending research report cannot be viewed by
those outside of the research department,” and DBSI had established other controls to address these
risks, such as restricting access to the floor where fundamental equity analysts worked and
maintaining a policy that prohibited all “market-sensitive research reports” from being written on

4

Under DBSI’s policies and procedures, DBSI equity research personnel were directed to contact DBSI’s
Legal and Compliance departments for guidance “should there be any question concerning whether there is
‘research in process.’”

5

the sales and trading floor. However, these policies and procedures did not address the ambiguity
in DBSI’s definition of “research in process.”
17.
At the same time, however, DBSI’s policies and procedures permitted equity
research analysts to communicate with DBSI customers and DBSI sales and trading personnel
about companies that were the subjects of research in process if the communications “did not
reflect or signal a material change from the analyst’s prior published view.”
18.
DBSI’s policies and procedures did not adequately define what constituted a
“material change.” DBSI also failed to provide adequate guidance and training to its equity
research analysts regarding what constituted “a material change from the analyst’s prior published
view.” For example, under DBSI’s written policies and procedures, an analyst’s rating or price
target change was deemed to be always material, but an estimate change by an equity analyst was
considered material only when the change was greater than ten percent.5 Furthermore, DBSI
equity research and compliance personnel applied the ten percent threshold based solely on
changes in an analyst’s annual, not quarterly, estimates. Thus, DBSI policies and procedures
permitted equity analysts to disclose to customers other than in published research reports greater
than ten percent changes in quarterly estimates, as long as such changes did not also result in a
greater than ten percent change in their annual estimates.
19.
An equity analyst’s change of ten percent or less in estimates of annual or quarterly
corporate financial performance – particularly when the analyst is highly regarded – can be, and
often is, highly relevant and material to investors.6
20.
Accordingly, by adopting a threshold of ten percent for materiality with regard to
analyst estimate changes, and limiting the policy only to changes in annual estimates, DBSI created
a risk that analysts would disclose to certain customers material, nonpublic information regarding
changes to annual and quarterly estimates without first publishing such information in research
reports.

5

In contrast to the unqualified statements contained in the firm’s written policies that analyst’s price target
changes always were material, DBSI’s Supervisory Analyst Handbook, which governed the conduct of DBSI equity
research personnel responsible for reviewing and approving DBSI research reports, specified that only changes to
price targets of ten percent or greater were required to be published in research reports. Moreover, DBSI’s policies
concerning communications between equity research personnel and investment banking personnel provided that
“analysts may never provide Banking (or any other party) with an advance notification of a pending rating, price
target, or estimate change.” (Emphases added.) This policy did not condition the restriction on whether an estimate
change was material or greater than ten percent.
6

The materiality standard applied by the courts to Section 10(b) and Rule 10b-5 of the Exchange Act, a
principal antifraud provision of the federal securities laws applies in the context of Section 15(g). Information is
deemed material if there is a substantial likelihood that a reasonable investor would consider it important in making an
investment decision. Basic Inc. v. Levinson, 485 U.S. 224, 231-232 (1988), citing TSC Industries, Inc. v. Northway,
426 U.S. 438, 449 (1976). An omitted fact is material if there is a substantial likelihood that the disclosure of that fact
would have been viewed by a reasonable investor as having significantly altered the total mix of information made
available. Id.

6

21.
DBSI’s policies and procedures did not specify what other types of pre-publication
information, apart from ratings, price targets, and certain estimate changes, was deemed to be
material, and therefore, could only be disclosed in a published research report.
22.
As a result of these weaknesses in its policies and procedures, DBSI failed to prevent
the disclosure of potentially market sensitive information that was to be included in forthcoming
DBSI research reports and analysts’ estimate changes of ten percent or less. For example:
a.
On February 2, 2012, a DBSI senior equity research analyst (“Analyst B”)
published a research report on Company A. In the report, Analyst B estimated that the
company’s 2012 first quarter earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization
(“EBITDA”)7 would be $850.6 million, which included a first quarter EBITDA of $430.9
million for a region of Company A’s business (“Region A”). Approximately two months
later, on April 9, 2012, the Analyst B told certain DBSI customers and DBSI sales and
trading personnel that he expected Company A’s first quarter EBITDA to be higher than his
previously published estimate, explaining that he had calculated a first quarter EBITDA of
$490 million for Region A. This change in the analyst’s Region A estimate represented a
13.7% increase from his earlier estimate for Region A and a 6.9% increase from his earlier
estimate for Company A in total. Ten days later, on April 19, 2012, the Analyst B published
another research report on Company A, in which he raised his estimate of Company A’s
first quarter EBITDA to $906 million, based largely on an increase in his estimate for
Region A’s first quarter EBITDA to $479.5 million.
b.
On February 21, 2012, Analyst B published a research report on Company
B. In the report, Analyst B estimated that the company’s 2012 first quarter EBIDTA would
be $125.7 million. Two months later, on April 23, 2012, the day before Company B was
scheduled to release its 2012 first quarter earnings, the analyst told certain DBSI customers
that he expected Company B’s first quarter EBITDA to be as high as $139 million, which
was a 10.6% increase from his earlier estimate. The next day, the analyst emailed a DBSI
salesperson stating that even a first quarter EBITDA of $134 for Company B was a
“meaningful beat.” Analyst B never issued a research report with the revised estimate for
Company B.
c.
On March 28, 2012, Analyst A hosted a non-deal road show for Company
C. Beginning at about 7:30 a.m. and continuing until about 3:15 p.m., the company’s
executives met privately with DBSI customers. Analyst A attended all of these meetings.
Shortly after the meetings had ended, Analyst A contacted certain DBSI customers,
sharing his impressions from the meetings and his view of the company’s prospects for
the quarter. That night, Analyst A sent an email to the head of DBSI’s Institutional
Client Group for North America, stating that he had a “note hitting in the a.m. [that] will
likely rattle the stock.” The following morning, March 29, 2012, Analyst A published a
8

7

EBIDTA is used by some research analysts as a measure of a company’s profitability.

8

A non-deal road show is a series of meetings between company management and representatives of
institutional investors, typically hosted by a broker-dealer, during which the participants discuss the performance and
future prospects of the company, but no securities are offered for sale.

7

research report on Company C that contained information that was substantially the same
as the information that he had conveyed to at least one of the DBSI customers with whom
he spoke the day before, as reflected in notes that were taken by that particular DBSI
customer.
d.
In an instant message to a junior equity research analyst sent on April 4,
2012, Analyst A described his practice of previewing his forthcoming research for certain
customers. After the junior analyst had asked Analyst A whether he was going to issue a
research report following a meeting that the senior analyst had hosted between the
management of a company that he covered and certain DBSI customers, Analyst A
responded that he would not publish immediately, and explained that he usually waited two
days following such a meeting before publishing a report because it “give[s] clients the
opportunity to trade on what they lea[rned] and more importantly allows me to talk about it
before telling the world.” The junior analyst replied, “understood and makes sense.”
ii.

Unpublished Short Term Trade Recommendations That Were Inconsistent
With An Analyst’s Long Term Published Ratings

23.
In addition to publishing long term ratings based on their twelve-month view of a
stock, DBSI’s equity research analysts also were permitted to publish short term trade ideas on
DBSI’s SOLAR website. DBSI’s policies and procedures expressly stated that SOLAR was “the
only setting wherein an analyst may express a short term trade idea.” DBSI’s policies and
procedures prohibited equity research analysts from selectively disclosing any trading
recommendation that was contrary to their long term published ratings. Similarly, all DBSI
research reports issued during the relevant period included the following standard disclosure
regarding short term trade ideas: “Deutsche Bank equity research analysts sometimes have
shorter-term trade ideas (known as SOLAR ideas) that are consistent or inconsistent with Deutsche
Bank’s existing longer term ratings. These trade ideas can be found at the SOLAR link at
http://gm.db.com.” In addition, DBSI’s policies and procedures stated that pending SOLAR ideas
must be treated as material, nonpublic information, and accordingly, all DBSI customers had to
have equal access to them.9
24.
DBSI’s policies and procedures with regard to short term trade ideas were not
reasonably designed because they failed to clearly define what constituted a “short term trade
idea.” Indeed, DBSI’s public disclosures on the SOLAR website and in blast emails sent to
DBSI customers announcing new SOLAR ideas were inconsistent with DBSI’s policies and
procedures.10 The SOLAR website and the blast emails stated that SOLAR ideas were limited to
short term trade ideas that an analyst believed would be valid for at least two weeks. The
disclosure stated, in pertinent part, that: “Analyst believes the stock will out [or under] perform
9

The firm’s training materials during the relevant period reiterated these concepts. For example, the slides
for an annual compliance training for research analysts in 2011 included the following guidance: “Never Write or
Say Anything Contrary to Your Published Investment View,” “Never Contradict Published Investment View Even If
You Are Not the Lead Analyst,” “Never Traffic In Material Nonpublic Information,” and “Use SOLAR to Express
All Short Term Trade Ideas.”
10

They also were inconsistent with the public disclosure made in all DBSI research reports issued during the
relevant period that short term trade ideas could be found on the SOLAR website.

8

the market and/or sector delineated over a time frame of no less than 2 weeks with a high to
moderate [or moderate to low] return to risk profile.” (Emphasis added). However, DBSI’s
policies and procedures failed to address the risk that in disseminating short term trade ideas of
less than two weeks conviction, which were not required to be published on the SOLAR website,
research analysts could divulge material, nonpublic information regarding changes in their views
of a company and provide trade ideas that ran counter to their published long term ratings, in
violation of DBSI’s policies and procedures.
25.
As a result of these weaknesses in its policies and procedures, DBSI failed to prevent
research analysts from disclosing short term trade ideas that were not published in SOLAR, some of
which were inconsistent with the analyst’s published long term rating, in communications with
DBSI customers and DBSI sales and trading personnel. For example:
a.
In a May 3, 2012 instant message, Analyst A told DBSI’s head trader
responsible for trading consumer stocks to “short” a stock for which the analyst had a
published HOLD rating. Similarly, in an October 10, 2012 email to DBSI sales and
trading personnel, which he copied to three junior equity research analysts who reported
to him at the time, the same analyst recommended a “buy” for a stock for which he had a
published HOLD rating.
b.
In an April 24, 2012 instant message, Analyst B told a DBSI customer to
“get out” and “puke” a stock for which he had a published HOLD rating. Similarly, in a
May 20, 2012 email, Analyst B told another DBSI customer to “short” a different stock for
which the analyst had a published HOLD rating.
C.

DBSI Failed to Establish, Maintain, and Enforce Reasonable Policies and
Procedures For Communications Between DBSI Equity Research Analysts and
DBSI Customers and DBSI Sales and Trading Personnel

26.
DBSI's failure to establish, maintain, and enforce policies and procedures
reasonably designed to prevent its equity research analysts from disclosing material, nonpublic
information was further amplified by shortcomings in its policies and procedures pertaining to
communications between DBSI’s equity research analysts and both DBSI customers and DBSI
sales and trading personnel. In particular, DBSI failed to establish, maintain, and enforce
reasonable policies and procedures to prevent its equity research analysts from using various
customer interactions and internal communications with DBSI sales and trading personnel,
including, but not limited to, morning calls, squawks, idea dinners, and non-deal road shows to
disclose potentially market sensitive information to DBSI customers and DBSI sales and trading
personnel. These deficiencies created a risk that material, nonpublic information generated by
DBSI equity research analysts might be misused.
i.

Morning Calls and Squawks

27.
For most days the stock market was open, DBSI held a premarket internal “morning
call” during which DBSI equity research analysts provided information and recommendations to the
DBSI sales staff on the companies and stocks that they covered. During the day, DBSI research

9

analysts also communicated breaking news and recommendations on the companies and stocks that
they covered to the DBSI sales staff over an internal intercom system known as a “squawk box.”
DBSI asserts that it had an unwritten policy of allowing research analysts to speak on morning calls
generally if they were discussing only recently-published research. Similarly, DBSI asserts that
research analysts were only permitted to speak on the squawk box if they were discussing recentlypublished research or responding to publicly-available information, such as breaking market news,
earnings, or a corporate event. Nevertheless, at various times, morning calls and squawks were not
monitored or were inadequately monitored and remarks made by analysts that went beyond that
which was permitted were not subjected to follow-up by compliance personnel or supervisory
analysts.11
28.
DBSI sales personnel were permitted to share the information and recommendations
that they learned during these morning calls and over the squawk box with DBSI customers. This
created a risk that DBSI equity research analysts could disclose unpublished market sensitive
information during morning calls and squawks, which DBSI sales personnel in turn could relay to
external and internal customers. DBSI failed to establish, maintain, and enforce policies and
procedures reasonably designed to address the risk that research analyst participation in morning
calls and squawks could result in the disclosure of material, nonpublic information.
29.
Prior to the time, in early 2013, when DBSI became aware of the Commission
staff’s investigation, DBSI lacked policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent the
disclosure of potentially material, nonpublic information with regard to morning calls and
squawks. For example, compliance personnel did not regularly monitor the information that
research analysts and others shared during morning calls and over the squawk box, and DBSI
compliance did not maintain any record of the information that research analysts shared during
their squawks. Consequently, hundreds of morning calls and squawks were conducted without any
oversight from DBSI compliance personnel or supervisory analysts.
30.
Moreover, during the relevant period, DBSI failed to enforce even the limited
policies and procedures that the firm had established pertaining to morning calls and the squawk
box. For example, with respect to squawks, DBSI’s policies and procedures required that to
“relay information intraday [on the squawk box] (including rating, estimate, or price target
changes and newsworthy items), Analysts must contact the Equity Focus Group prior to
publication of [research reports], and should email the main points to the Equity Focus Group.”
However, DBSI equity research analysts regularly failed to email their main points to the Equity
Focus Group, but nonetheless, were still permitted to relay information on the squawk box.
Similarly, with respect to morning calls, DBSI’s policies and procedures prohibited equity
research analysts who had not very recently published a research report from commenting during
morning calls without first having contacted the Equity Focus Group to preview their planned
comments. However, this procedure was seldom followed. The head of DBSI’s Equity Focus
Group acknowledged that this procedure “did not reflect how it actually happens.”
11

Personnel from DBSI’s Equity Focus Group, which is a group within DBSI’s research department, organized
and hosted the morning calls and squawks. Although the Equity Focus Group was not part of DBSI’s compliance
department, it had established controls over the morning meetings and squawks, such as controlling which particular
analysts could provide commentary and retaining the ability to cut off an analyst if any commentary was inappropriate.

10

31.
As a result of these deficiencies, DBSI failed to prevent the disclosure of potentially
market sensitive information during morning calls and over the squawk box. For example:
a.
On March 22, 2012, Analyst C spoke about Company D during a morning
call, after he had published a research report on the company earlier that morning in
which the analyst had upgraded his rating for its stock from a HOLD to a BUY and
increased his price target for the stock to $100. During the morning call, Analyst C stated
his view that, assuming Company D had fifteen percent earnings per share growth for
2013, the company was a “$110 to $115 stock.” A week later, on March 28, 2012,
Analyst C spoke about Company D during another morning call, having published a
research report on the company earlier that morning. The analyst once again gave an
estimated future price of the stock that was above his published $100 price target: “My
price target is $100 right now just cause I haven’t revised the model ahead of the
[company’s fourth quarter earnings] call. But I can, as I said last week, I can get to a
midterm target of $110 or even a little higher.” Analyst C never published a research
report containing his midterm price target of at least $110. There is no record that DBSI
compliance or research supervisors noted this statement or took any corrective measures
with regard to Analyst C.
b.
On March 29, 2012, Analyst A spoke about Company C during a morning
call, having published a research report on the company earlier that morning that had
maintained both his BUY rating and price target. During the morning call, Analyst A
explained that he had maintained his BUY rating because “obviously we just had them in
town so it’s not kosher to downgrade on the heels of something like that.” Analyst A also
said, “[B]ut more importantly than that, I think there’s obviously time left in the quarter”
and that he and his team were “gonna do our homework on it” and “gonna be in front of
‘em.” Less than a month later, on April 24, 2012, the morning after Company C had
issued an unexpected press release forecasting negative first quarter comparable store
sales, which resulted in the company’s stock losing almost one-quarter of its value in one
day, Analyst A spoke about Company C on another morning call. After discussing the
company’s disappointing first quarter sales figures, he stated: “[F]ortunately, we told
many clients a few weeks back to sell the stock…. I think the writing was on the wall
[that] we were getting concerned about it, but I was trying to maintain, you know, my
relationship with them. So that’s why we didn’t downgrade it a couple weeks back.”
c.
On April 10, 2012, Analyst A spoke about Company E on the squawk box
shortly after the company had announced its fourth quarter earnings. Later that same day,
the analyst issued a research report on Company E. The report included substantially the
same information that the analyst had shared in his earlier squawk, as shown below.
DBSI Sales Employee’s Notes of
Squawk
Going to get a relief rally here.
Looking at their guidance, we
simply do not think it’s achievable.

11

April 10, 2012 Research
Report
Relief Rally on Tap
Guidance Looks Optimistic, In
Our View

Very curious as to why they’ve put
out such high expectations. Net net
we don’t think they’ll be able to
deliver.
Comp is a little better
Staying on the sidelines.

ii.

[Company E] would have been
better served giving more
conservative guidance.
ID’s [identical store sales]Better-Than-Expected
Net, we remain comfortably
uninvolved (i.e., HOLD rating).

Idea Dinners

32.
Consistent with DBSI’s practice of encouraging its equity research analysts to
interact with DBSI customers, DBSI research analysts were permitted to participate in “idea
dinners” hosted by the firm. Idea dinners12 presented another opportunity for equity research
analysts to discuss the public companies and stocks they covered with DBSI customers in an
informal setting. Under the typical format, DBSI equity research analysts as well as DBSI
customers were expected to share at least one buy or sell investment idea. The idea dinners created
a heightened risk that DBSI equity research analysts could disclose material, nonpublic
information to selected customers, in order to receive positive assessments, such as Institutional
Investor votes, from those DBSI customers for the analysts’ annual evaluations by DBSI. DBSI
failed to take reasonable steps to prevent material, nonpublic information from being disclosed at
these dinners.
33.
DBSI failed to monitor whether its equity research analysts were violating DBSI’s
policies and procedures at idea dinners, by, for example, offering trade recommendations that were
inconsistent with their published long term ratings. DBSI had no policies and procedures and no
formal trainings specifically related to such dinners. Moreover, DBSI compliance personnel did not
attend idea dinners nor did they preview or subsequently review the trade ideas shared during
these dinners. DBSI also did not maintain any record of the investment ideas shared at idea
dinners.
34.
As a result of these deficiencies, DBSI failed to prevent the disclosure of short term
trade ideas that were not published on SOLAR and were inconsistent with analysts’ published
ratings. For example, at an April 26, 2012 idea dinner hosted by DBSI, which was attended by
approximately ten DBSI customers, a DBSI junior equity research analyst who attended together
with Analyst A shared two trade recommendations for companies that he covered along with
Analyst A that were inconsistent with their published HOLD ratings.
iii

DBSI Customer - Issuer Meetings Conducted by DBSI Research Analysts

35.
DBSI also encouraged its equity research analysts to interact with DBSI
customers by, among other things, organizing or hosting events such as non-deal road shows,
company tours, and other similar issuer/customer meetings, which provided DBSI customers an
opportunity to meet directly and interact with management of the companies covered by DBSI
12

Occasionally, these events were held during lunches, but for ease of reference, all are referred to
collectively as idea dinners herein.

12

analysts. DBSI research analysts that hosted such events often issued research reports on the
companies shortly after the events. The reports typically included the analyst’s key impressions
from the meetings. Under these circumstances, there was a heightened risk that, during the
period after the event until the publication of a report by the hosting analyst, an analyst could
disclose material, nonpublic information regarding the analyst’s views of the company as a result
of information learned or impressions formed during the event that later would appear in a
published research report. DBSI also lacked policies and procedures reasonably designed to
determine whether DBSI equity research personnel who attended the events with company
management were divulging or acting upon material, nonpublic information obtained from
company management.
36.
Despite these risks, DBSI failed to establish, maintain, and enforce policies and
procedures reasonably designed to prevent its equity research analysts from disclosing material,
nonpublic information to certain DBSI customers and DBSI sales and trading personnel
following these events and prior to the publication of research reports that contained information
that the analyst may have learned and views that the analyst may have formed during these
events. DBSI had no policies and procedures that addressed these events, apart from a prohibition
against DBSI research and investment banking personnel jointly attending or organizing non-deal
road shows. DBSI did not provide any specific training for its analysts related to these events or on
how to conduct customer contacts subsequent to these events. DBSI compliance personnel did not
attend or monitor these events or chaperone the analysts’ contact with customers immediately after
these events and prior to the publication of post-event research reports.
37.
As a result, on several occasions during the relevant period, DBSI failed to prevent
equity research analysts from disclosing nonpublic market sensitive information that they had
learned or developed during these issuer/customer events to certain DBSI customers and DBSI sales
and trading personnel before the same information appeared in DBSI research reports. For
example:
a.
As discussed above, on March 28, 2012, Analyst A disclosed the substance
of his forthcoming research report on Company C to certain DBSI customers immediately
after hosting a non-deal road show for the company.
b.
On April 3, 2012, Analyst A hosted ten DBSI customers for a
headquarters trip to Company F. Beginning at approximately 2:00 p.m., Analyst A and
DBSI customers met privately with Company F management. Early the next morning,
Analyst A emailed his impressions from the trip to select DBSI customers and DBSI
sales and trading personnel. The subject line of his emails varied for different DBSI
customers, ranging from “these are full notes” to “some good color for you today … get
long brotha.” In the email, the analyst emphasized that in his opinion Company F
“sounded rock solid.” One DBSI customer who received the email thanked Analyst A
for his “great summary.” Later that same day, the junior equity research analyst who was
working on an initial draft of the forthcoming Company F research report emailed
Analyst A that he had emphasized points from Analyst A’s email in his draft of the
research report. On April 9, 2012, Analyst A published a research report on Company F

13

that increased his price target from $49 to $52 and contained information that was
substantially the same as the information that he had conveyed in his April 4, 2012 email.
D.

DBSI Issued a Research Report by a Senior Equity Research Analyst That Was
Inconsistent With His Personally Held View

38.
On March 29, 2012, DBSI issued a research report by Charles P. Grom, a DBSI
senior equity research analyst, on Big Lots, Inc., in which Grom reiterated his BUY rating. As
required by Regulation AC, Grom signed an analyst certification that was included at the end of
the report, which stated: “The views expressed in this report accurately reflect the personal views
of the undersigned lead analyst(s) about the subject issuer and the securities of the issuer.” In
fact, however, his BUY rating was inconsistent with his personal view that the company should
have been downgraded. As discussed above, during a morning call with DBSI’s sales and trading
staff on the day that his research report was published, as well as on at least two subsequent
occasions, Grom stated that he wanted to, but did not, downgrade Big Lots in order to maintain
his relationship with its management. Grom subsequently repeatedly stated that at about the time
that he had published the report in question, he had told certain DBSI customers to sell Big Lots
stock, notwithstanding his published BUY rating.13
E.

DBSI Failed to Timely Produce and Preserve Internal DB Chat Communications

39.
In early 2015, during the course of the Commission staff’s investigation into
DBSI’s policies and procedures, DBSI discovered a problem with the software responsible for
preserving electronic communications sent and received through DBSI’s internal “DB Chat”
messaging system. DBSI personnel, including equity research personnel, used DB Chat to
conduct DBSI business. Indeed, DBSI’s policies and procedures specifically stated that the DB
Chat system was “for business use only.”
40.
After discovering the problem, DBSI was able to recover a substantial amount of
the DB Chat communications sent and received by DBSI equity research personnel during the
relevant period, although it could not represent that it had recovered all of the called-for
communications. Accordingly, DBSI failed to preserve for three years and preserve in an
accessible place for two years certain internal DB Chat communications. DBSI also failed to
promptly furnish copies of certain DB Chat communications that had been requested by the staff
during the investigation.

13

On February 17, 2016, the Commission instituted a settled public administrative and cease-and-desist
proceeding against Grom for violating Rule 501 of Regulation AC. See In re Charles P. Grom, Exchange Act Rel.
No. 77150 (February 17, 2016). Without admitting or denying the Commission’s findings, Grom consented to the
entry of the Commission’s order and agreed to pay a $100,000 civil penalty and to be suspended from the securities
industry for a year.

14

LEGAL ANALYSIS
A.

Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act

41.
Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act requires registered broker-dealers to establish,
maintain and enforce written policies and procedures, reasonably designed, taking into
consideration the nature of the broker-dealer’s business, to prevent the misuse, in violation of the
Exchange Act or the rules and regulations thereunder, of material, nonpublic information by such
broker or dealer or any person associated with such broker or dealer.14 The internal controls
requirements imposed by Section 15(g) are essential to protect against the risk of misuse of
material, nonpublic information, which can undermine investor confidence in the integrity of the
markets. Section 15(g) is intended to guard against a broad range of potential market violations,
including insider trading and trading in advance of material research changes. See 143 Cong. Rec.
E3078-04, 1988 WL 180248 (Sept. 13, 1988) (stating that “misuse of material, nonpublic
information” as used within Section 15(f) was intended to include a broad range of market
abuses, such as insider trading, scalping, and front running).
42.
Broker-dealers must be cognizant of their duties under Section 15(g) and the need to
tailor their policies and procedures to the specific activities of the individual firm, particularly as
their businesses evolve. The Commission consistently has made clear that the requirement that
broker-dealers implement and maintain policies and procedures consistent with the nature of its
business “is critical to effectively preventing the misuse of material, nonpublic information.” In
re Gabelli & Co., Inc., Exchange Act Rel. No. 35057 (Dec. 8, 1994). The Commission also has
consistently made clear that broker-dealers must take seriously their responsibilities to design
and enforce sufficiently robust policies and procedures to prevent the misuse of material,
nonpublic information. See, e.g., In re Goldman, Sachs & Co., Exchange Act Rel. No. 66791
(April 12, 2012) (finding Section 15(g) violation where Goldman Sachs had not established,
maintained, and enforced adequate policies and procedures concerning its trading “huddle”
program); In re Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc., Exchange Act Rel. No. 59555 (March
11, 2009) (finding Section 15(f) violation where Merrill Lynch failed to limit or monitor traders’
access to the equity squawk box which broadcast material nonpublic information); In re Banc of
America Securities LLC, Exchange Act Rel. No. 55466 (March 14, 2007) (finding Section 15(f)
violation where Banc of America failed to establish, maintain, and enforce policies and procedures
to protect against the misuse of material nonpublic research information). The mere establishment
of policies and procedures alone is not sufficient to prevent the misuse of material, nonpublic
information. It also is necessary to implement measures to monitor compliance with and
enforcement of those policies and procedures. See, e.g., In re Monness, Crespi, Hardt & Co., Inc.,
Exchange Act Rel. No. 72886 (August 20 2014) (finding Section 15(g) violation where Monness
failed to enforce existing policies and procedures designed to protect against the misuse of
material, nonpublic information); In re Morgan Stanley & Co. Inc., et al., Exchange Act Rel. No.
54047 (June 27, 2006) (finding Section 15(f) violation where Morgan Stanley failed to enforce
existing policies and procedures concerning surveillance over a four-year period). These
obligations are important even if no questionable trading has occurred.

14

Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act was formerly Section 15(f) of the Exchange Act. The provision was
renumbered in 2010 by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.

15

43.
DBSI’s policies and procedures were not reasonably designed, given the nature of
its business, to prevent the misuse of material, nonpublic information generated by its equity
research analysts. DBSI failed to establish clear and consistent policies and procedures to prevent
its equity research analysts from disclosing material, nonpublic information, such as information
that was to be included in forthcoming DBSI research reports, estimate changes of less than ten
percent, and short term trading recommendations that were inconsistent with the analyst’s published
long term ratings. These failures were further compounded by deficiencies in DBSI’s policies and
procedures pertaining to communications between DBSI’s equity research analysts and both DBSI
customers and DBSI sales and trading personnel. In particular, DBSI failed to establish, maintain,
and enforce policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent its equity research analysts
from using various customer interactions and internal communications with DBSI sales and trading
personnel, including, but not limited to, morning calls, squawks, idea dinners, and non-deal road
shows to disclose material, nonpublic information in the form of unpublished market sensitive
information to select DBSI customers and DBSI sales and trading personnel. These failures are
amplified in light of a compensation structure that heightened the potential for the selective
disclosure and misuse of material, nonpublic information generated by DBSI equity research
analysts. Nonetheless, despite these risks, DBSI failed to establish, maintain, and enforce policies
and procedures reasonably designed to prevent its equity research analysts from disclosing to firm
customers, either directly or indirectly through DBSI sales and trading personnel, material,
nonpublic information.
44.
As a result of the conduct described above, DBSI willfully15 violated Section 15(g)
of the Exchange Act.16
B.

Rule 501 of Regulation AC

45.
Rule 501 of Regulation AC requires that brokers, dealers, and certain persons
associated with a broker or dealer, including research analysts, include in their research reports a
prominent certification by the research analyst that the views expressed in the research report
accurately reflect the research analyst’s personal views about any and all of the subject securities
or issuers. On March 29, 2012, DBSI issued a research report by Grom on Big Lots in which
Grom reiterated his BUY rating. Grom signed the Regulation AC certification for this research
report. However, as described above, Grom believed he should have downgraded Big Lots in his
March 29, 2012, research report and repeatedly stated that he did not downgrade Big Lots at the
time because he wanted to maintain his relationship with its management. Accordingly, Grom’s
March 29, 2012, research report did not accurately reflect his personally held view.

15

A willful violation of the securities laws means merely “‘that the person charged with the duty knows what
he is doing.’” Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000) (quoting Hughes v. SEC, 174 F.2d 969, 977
(D.C. Cir. 1949)). There is no requirement that the actor “‘also be aware that he is violating one of the Rules or
Acts.’” Id. (quoting Gearhart & Otis, Inc. v. SEC, 348 F.2d 798, 803 (D.C. Cir. 1965)).
16

There is no requirement under Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act that there be an underlying insider
trading violation or any other violation of the Exchange Act or the rules thereunder. See In the Matter of New York
Stock Exchange LLC, et al., Exchange Act Release No. 72065, 2014 WL 1712113, at *5 fn. 13 (May 1, 2014); In the
Matter of Certain Market Making Activities on NASDAQ, Exchange Act Release No. 40910, 1999 WL 6716, at *6
fn. 3 (Jan. 11, 1999).

16

46.
As a result of the conduct described above, DBSI willfully violated Rule 501 of
Regulation AC.
C.

Section 17(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 17a-4 Thereunder

47.
Section 17(a)(1) of the Exchange Act requires that broker-dealers “shall make and
keep for prescribed periods such records, furnish such copies thereof, and make and disseminate
such reports as the Commission, by rule, prescribes as necessary or appropriate in the public
interest, for the protection of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of this
chapter.” The Commission has emphasized the importance of the records required by the rules
as “the basic source documents” of a broker-dealer. Statement Regarding the Maintenance of
Current Books and Records by Brokers and Dealers, 4 SEC Docket 195 (April 6, 1974). The
record keeping rules are “a keystone of the surveillance of broker and dealers by [Commission]
staff and by the securities industry's self-regulatory bodies.” Edward J. Mawod & Co., 46 S.E.C.
865, 873 n.39 (1977) (citation omitted), aff'd, 591 F.2d 588 (10th Cir. 1979). Rule 17a-4(b)(4)
of the Exchange Act requires each broker-dealer to ‘preserve for a period of not less than three
years, the first two years in an accessible place.... [o]riginals of all communications received and
copies of all communications sent . . . by the … broker or dealer (including inter-office
memoranda and communications) relating to its business as such.” Rule 17a-4(j) of the
Exchange Act requires broker-dealers to “furnish promptly to a representative of the
Commission legible, true, complete, and current copies of those records of the . . . broker or
dealer that are required to be preserved under this section … that are requested by the
representative of the Commission.”
48.
DBSI failed to preserve for three years and preserve in an accessible place for two
years certain internal DB Chat communications. In addition, DBSI failed to promptly furnish
copies of all DB Chat communications that had been requested by the staff during the
investigation.
49.
As a result of the conduct described above, DBSI willfully violated Section 17(a) of
the Exchange Act and Rule 17a-4 thereunder.
REMEDIAL EFFORTS
50.
In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts
taken by DBSI.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Exchange Act and Section 203(e)
of the Advisers Act, it is hereby ORDERED that:

17

A.
Respondent shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and
any future violations of Sections 15(g) and 17(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 17a-4 thereunder
and Rule 501 of Regulation AC;
B.

Respondent is censured;

C.
Respondent shall, within ten (10) days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money
penalty in the amount of $9,500,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the
general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If timely
payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717. Payment must
be made in one of the following ways:
(1)

Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which
will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

(2)

Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
DBSI as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of
the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Yuri B. Zelinsky, Division of
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., N.E., Washington, DC 205495041.

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

18

