UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 79186 / October 28, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17650
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
AND NOTICE OF HEARING

In the Matter of
JOE LAWLER,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Joe Lawler
(“Respondent”).
II.
After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement alleges that:
1.
From May 2008 through August 2012, Respondent offered and sold the securities of
a pooled investment vehicle, and received compensation for each transaction in which investors
bought the securities. During that time period, Respondent was neither registered with the
Commission nor associated with any person or entity registered with the Commission.
2.
On May 17, 2016, a final judgment was entered by consent against Respondent,
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 5(a), 5(c), and 17(a) of the Securities
Act of 1933, Sections 10(b) and 15(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, in the civil
action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Projaris Management, LLC, et al., Case
Number 1:13-cv-849-RB-KBM, in the United States District Court for the District of New Mexico.
3.
The Commission’s complaint alleged that, in connection with the unregistered sale
of interests in a pooled investment vehicle, Respondent misused and misappropriated investor
funds, falsely stated to investors that their funds were invested, sent out false account statements,

made Ponzi-like payments, and otherwise engaged in a variety of conduct which operated as a
fraud and deceit on investors.
III.
In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement, the Commission deems it
necessary and appropriate in the public interest that public administrative proceedings be instituted
to determine:
A.
Whether the allegations set forth in Section II hereof are true and, in connection
therewith, to afford Respondent an opportunity to establish any defenses to such allegations;
B.
What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against Respondent
pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act; and
C.
Whether, pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act, it is appropriate and in
the public interest to bar Respondent from participating in any offering of penny stock,
including: acting as a promoter, finder, consultant, agent or other person who engages in
activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny
stock; or inducing or attempting to induce the purchase or sale of any penny stock.
IV.
IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the questions
set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened at a time and place to be fixed, and before an
Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 of the
Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.110.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent shall file an Answer to the allegations
contained in this Order within twenty (20) days after service of this Order, as provided by Rule 220
of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220.
If Respondent fails to file the directed answer, or fails to appear at a hearing after being duly
notified, the Respondent may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be determined against
him upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of which may be deemed to be true as
provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f) and 310 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R.
§§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f) and 201.310.
This Order shall be served forthwith upon Respondent as provided for in the Commission’s
Rules of Practice.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, pursuant to Rule 360(a)(2) of the Commission’s Rules
of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.360(a)(2), the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an initial decision
no later than 75 days from the occurrence of one of the following events: (A) The completion of
post-hearing briefing in a proceeding where the hearing has been completed; (B) Where the
2

hearing officer has determined that no hearing is necessary, upon completion of briefing on a
motion pursuant to Rule 250 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.250; or (C)
The determination by the hearing officer that a party is deemed to be in default under Rule 155 of
the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.155 and no hearing is necessary.
In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission engaged
in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually related
proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter, except as witness
or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice. Since this proceeding is not “rule making” within
the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it is not deemed subject to the
provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any final Commission action.
For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

