UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77598 / April 13, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4366 / April 13, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17117

In the Matter of

ORDER MAKING FINDINGS AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b)(6) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934 AND SECTION 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940

Gregory L. Merrick,
Respondent.

I.
On February 12, 2016, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”)
instituted proceedings against Gregory L. Merrick (“Merrick” or “Respondent”) pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Section 203(f) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”).
II.
Merrick has submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”) which the Commission has
determined to accept. Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings
brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent
consents to the entry of this Order Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions Pursuant to
Section 15(B)(6) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 203(f) of the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940 (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:

1.
Merrick was an Ohio-licensed investment adviser representative with
SICOR Securities, Inc. (“SICOR”) from October 6, 1998 to March 24, 2014, and with Signature
Investments, Inc. (“Signature”) from January 3, 2006 to January 2, 2015. From January 2, 1998 to
October 29, 2013, Merrick was an Ohio-licensed securities salesperson with SICOR, a brokerdealer that had been registered with the Commission during the relevant period. Merrick, 52 years
old, is a resident of Tipp City, Ohio.
2.
On January 2, 2015, SICOR and Merrick consented to the issuance of an
order by the Ohio Department of Commerce, Division of Securities in the matter of Gregory Lunar
Merrick and SICOR Securities, Inc., Order No. 15-001 (the “Ohio Order”) that (1) ordered SICOR
and Merrick to cease and desist from acts and practices that constituted a violation of the securities
chapter of the Ohio Revised Code and (2) revoked Merrick’s investment adviser representative
license and SICOR’s investment adviser license.
3.
The Ohio Order found that from at least January 18, 2011 to February 22,
2013, SICOR and Merrick operated a program called the Controlled Asset Transfer System
(“CATS”), which Merrick marketed to insurance agents who sought to have their clients or
prospective clients liquidate existing securities in order to sell the clients insurance products.
Merrick advised each insurance agent to use the CATS program to avoid acting as a securities
salesperson without a license. The Ohio Order concluded that, through this program, SICOR and
Merrick liquidated the clients’ securities without conducting a reasonable inquiry into the clients’
investment objectives and financial situation and without sufficient information to determine if the
liquidation was suitable. The Ohio Order found that, based on this conduct, SICOR and Merrick
breached the fiduciary duty owed to their clients and violated Ohio Administrative Code (“O.A.C.”)
§ 1301:6-3-19(A)(5). In connection with the Ohio Order, Respondent admitted liability for
breaching the fiduciary duty owed to his clients and for violations of O.A.C. § 1301:6-3-19(A)(5),
which prohibits a dealer or salesperson from selling, purchasing or recommending the sale or
purchase of any securities without reasonable grounds to believe that the transaction or
recommendation is suitable for the customer based upon reasonable inquiry concerning the
customer’s investment objectives, financial situation and needs, and any other relevant information
known to the dealer or salesperson.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Merrick’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act,
and Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act, that Respondent Merrick be, and hereby is:
barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities
dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating
organization; and
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter,
finder, consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or
2

issuer for purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting
to induce the purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

