UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77227 / February 24, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17132

In the Matter of
Infrastructure International, Inc.,

ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
PROCEEDINGS AND NOTICE OF HEARING
PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(j) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it necessary and
appropriate for the protection of investors that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby
are, instituted pursuant to Section 12(j) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange
Act”) against the respondent named in the caption.
II.
After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement alleges that:
A.

RESPONDENT

1.
Infrastructure International, Inc. (“Infrastructure”) (CIK No. 82312) is a
permanently revoked Nevada corporation located in Shenzhen, China with a class of securities
registered with the Commission pursuant to Exchange Act Section 12(g). Infrastructure is
delinquent in its periodic filings with the Commission, having not filed any periodic reports since
it filed a Form 10-QSB for the period ended September 30, 1999, which reported no revenues or
expenses for the prior nine months. As of February 23, 2016, the common stock of
Infrastructure was not publicly quoted or traded.
B.

DELINQUENT PERIODIC FILINGS

2.
As discussed in more detail above, the Respondent is delinquent in its periodic
filings with the Commission, has repeatedly failed to meet its obligations to file timely periodic
reports and failed to bring its filings current in response to the delinquency letter sent to it by the
Division of Corporation Finance requesting compliance with its periodic filing obligations.

3.
Exchange Act Section 13(a) and the rules promulgated thereunder require issuers
of securities registered pursuant to Exchange Act Section 12 to file with the Commission current
and accurate information in periodic reports, even if the registration is voluntary under Section
12(g). Specifically, Exchange Act Rule 13a-1 requires issuers to file annual reports and
Exchange Act Rule 13a-13 requires domestic issuers to file quarterly reports.
4.
As a result of the foregoing, the Respondent failed to comply with Exchange Act
Section 13(a) and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder.
III.
In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement, the Commission deems
it necessary and appropriate for the protection of investors that public administrative proceedings
be instituted to determine:
A.
Whether the allegations contained in Section II hereof are true and, in connection
therewith, to afford the Respondent an opportunity to establish any defenses to such allegations;
and,
B.
Whether it is necessary and appropriate for the protection of investors to suspend
for a period not exceeding twelve months, or revoke the registration of each class of securities
registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act of the Respondent identified in Section II
hereof, and any successor under Exchange Act Rules 12b-2 or 12g-3, and any new corporate
names of the Respondent.
IV.
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on
the questions set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened at a time and place to be fixed, and
before an Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice [17 C.F.R. § 201.110].
IT IS HEREBY FURTHER ORDERED that the Respondent shall file an Answer to the
allegations contained in this Order within ten (10) days after service of this Order, as provided by
Rule 220(b) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice [17 C.F.R. § 201.220(b)].
If the Respondent fails to file the directed Answer, or fails to appear at a hearing after
being duly notified, the Respondent, and any successor under Exchange Act Rules 12b-2 or 12g3, and any new corporate names of the Respondent, may be deemed in default and the
proceedings may be determined against it upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of
which may be deemed to be true as provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f), and 310 of the
Commission’s Rules of Practice [17 C.F.R. §§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f), and 201.310].
This Order shall be served forthwith upon the Respondent personally or by certified,
registered, or Express Mail, or by other means permitted by the Commission Rules of Practice.

2

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an initial
decision no later than 120 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to Rule 360(a)(2)
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice [17 C.F.R. § 201.360(a)(2)].
In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission
engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually
related proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter, except
as witness or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice. Since this proceeding is not “rule
making” within the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it is not
deemed subject to the provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any final
Commission action.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

