UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78412 / July 26, 2016
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) announced the temporary
suspension, pursuant to Section 12(k) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange
Act"), of trading in the securities of American Transportation Holdings, Inc. ("ATHI”), of
Littleton, Colorado at 9:30 a.m. EDT on July 26, 2016, and terminating at 11:59 p.m. EDT on
August 8, 2016.
The Commission temporarily suspended trading in the securities of ATHI because of recent,
unusual and unexplained market activity in the company’s stock taking place during a
suspicious promotional campaign, and because of concerns about the accuracy of p ublicly
available information, including but not limited to company press releases issued in June and
July 2016. This order was entered pursuant to Section 12(k) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (Exchange Act).
The Commission cautions broker-dealers, shareholders, and prospective purchasers that they
should carefully consider the foregoing information along with all other currently available
information and any information subsequently issued by the company.
Further, brokers and dealers should be alert to the fact that, pursuant to Rule 15c2-11 under the
Exchange Act, at the termination of the trading suspension, no quotation may be entered unless
and until they have strictly complied with all of the provisions of the rule. If any broker or dealer
has any questions as to whether or not he has complied with the rule, he should not enter any
quotation but immediately contact the staff in the Division of Trading and Markets, Office of
Interpretation and Guidance, at (202) 551-5777. If any broker or dealer is uncertain as to what is
required by Rule 15c2-11, he should refrain from entering quotations relating to Code Rebel
Corporation’s securities until such time as he has familiarized himself with the rule and is certain
that all of its provisions have been met. If any broker or dealer enters any quotation which is in
violation of the rule, the Commission will consider the need for prompt enforcement action.
If any broker-dealer or other person has any information which may relate to this matter, contact
Michael Paley, Assistant Regional Director, New York Regional Office of the Securities and
Exchange Commission at (212) 336-0145.

