UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77529 / April 5, 2016
WHISTLEBLOWER AWARD PROCEEDING
File No. 2016-6
In the Matter of the Claim for Award
in connection with
Redacted
Redacted

Notice of Covered Action

Redacted

ORDER DETERMINING WHISTLEBLOWER AWARD CLAIM
On September 30, 2015, the Claims Review Staff (“CRS”) issued a Preliminary
Determination related to Notice of Covered Action Redacted . The Preliminary Determination
recommended that the award application submitted by
(“Claimant”) be denied.
Claimant
For the reasons stated below, Claimant’s claim is denied.
I.

Background

In
district court

Redacted

, the Commission

in federal

Redacted
Redacted
Redacted

. In

Redacted
Redacted
Redacted

. On
Redacted

Redacted

.

1

Redacted

On
Action

Redacted

II.

, the Office of the Whistleblower (“OWB”) posted Notice of Covered
for the Covered Action. Claimant filed a timely whistleblower award claim.

Redacted

Claimant’s Claim Is Denied
A. Preliminary Determination and Claimant’s Response

On September 30, 2015, the CRS issued a Preliminary Determination recommending that
Claimant’s award application be denied because Claimant did not provide any information that
led to the successful enforcement of the Covered Action. See Section 21F(b)(1) of the Exchange
Act, and Rule 21F-3(a) thereunder, 17 C.F.R. § 240.21F-3(a).
On November 30, 2015, Claimant submitted a written response contesting the
Preliminary Determination (hereinafter, “Response”). In the Response, Claimant states that the
Preliminary Determination is contested, but Claimant does not address the underlying basis for
why Claimant’s claim was denied, i.e., that the information Claimant provided did not lead to the
successful enforcement of the Covered Action.
B. Analysis
To qualify for an award under Section 21F of the Exchange Act, a whistleblower must
voluntarily provide the Commission with original information that leads to the successful
enforcement of a covered judicial or administrative action or related action. 15 U.S.C. § 78u6(b)(1). As relevant here, original information “leads to” a successful enforcement action if
either: (i) the original information caused the staff to open an investigation, reopen an
investigation, or inquire into different conduct as part of a current investigation, and the
Commission brought a successful action based in whole or in part on conduct that was the
subject of the original information; or (ii) the conduct was already under examination or
investigation, and the original information significantly contributed to the success of the action.
Rule 21F-4(c)(1)-(2), 17 C.F.R. § 240.21F-4(c)(1)-(2).
Based on our review of the record, we find that none of the information Claimant
submitted led to the successful enforcement of the Covered Action. First, none of the tips
identified by Claimant in Claimant’s award application was provided to the staff responsible for
the Covered Action. The record conclusively demonstrates that each of the tips was designated
for “no further action” by the Commission’s Office of Market Intelligence – the Commission
office that is responsible for the initial intake review of whistleblower tips – and were not
provided to investigative staff for further inquiry or for use in connection with any Commission
2

investigation. Second, the record demonstrates that at no point prior to the settlement of the
Covered Action did the staff members responsible for the Covered Action have any contact with,
or receive any information from, Claimant.
Because the record demonstrates that Claimant’s information did not lead to the
successful enforcement of the Covered Action and Claimant has not shown otherwise in
Claimant’s request for reconsideration of the Preliminary Determination, we deny Claimant’s
application for an award.1
III.

Conclusion

Accordingly, it is ORDERED that Claimant’s whistleblower award claim is denied.
By the Commission.
Brent J. Fields
Secretary

1

In the Response, Claimant challenges OWB’s decision not to provide Claimant with the record materials
underlying the Preliminary Determination. Under Exchange Act Rules 21F-8(b)(4) and 12(b), 17 C.F.R. § 240.21F8(b)(4) and 12(b), claimants requesting the administrative record in order to challenge a preliminary determination
may be required by OWB to sign a confidentiality agreement in a form acceptable to OWB as a prerequisite to
receiving a copy of the record. In accordance with these rules, it is standard practice of OWB to require all claimants
seeking copies of the record to sign a confidentiality agreement in order to prevent the disclosure of nonpublic information. Claimant failed to sign the confidentiality agreement within the deadline set by OWB. Several
weeks after that deadline, Claimant returned a signed copy of a substantially modified version of the confidentiality
agreement that included various material, objectionable provisions, including a provision that would have required
the Commission to provide Claimant with counsel and to pay for Claimant’s legal costs and expenses in connection
with Claimant’s challenge of the Preliminary Determination. We find that given these objectionable modifications,
OWB appropriately declined to counter-sign the confidentiality agreement, and, in accordance with Rules 21F8(b)(4) and 12(b), OWB appropriately declined to provide Claimant with the record.

3

