UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77052 / February 4, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4327 / February 4, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17098
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
AND SECTION 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
MICHAEL DONNELLY,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Section 203(f) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Michael Donnelly (“Donnelly” or
“Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s
jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the findings contained in
Sections III.2. and III.4. below, and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative
Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 203(f)
of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions
(“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Donnelly, age 46, is residing in Lecanto, Florida. From approximately 2007
through 2014, Donnelly was the President of Coastal IA, served as Coastal IA’s Chief Compliance
Officer from 2007 through 2013 and was an investment adviser representative for the firm. From
approximately 2009 through 2014, Donnelly was a registered representative at Coastal Equities
and served as Coastal Equities’ President from approximately 2012 through 2014 and Chief
Compliance Officer from approximately 2012 through 2013.
2.
On January 20, 2016, a final judgment was entered by consent against Donnelly,
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933
(“Securities Act”), Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and Sections
206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act, in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange
Commission v. Michael Donnelly, Civil Action Number 2:15-CV-05673, in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
3.
The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that while associated
with Coastal IA and Coastal Equities, Donnelly engaged in a scheme to defraud his advisory
clients and brokerage customers (“Clients”). Donnelly misappropriated Client funds, falsely stated
to Clients that their funds were invested, and sent out false account statements and other bogus
documents confirming their investments. However, Donnelly never invested his Clients’ funds as
promised but instead used the funds to pay his business and personal expenses.
4.
On December 22, 2015, Donnelly pled guilty to one count of securities fraud in
violation of 15 U.S.C. § 78j(b) and one count of wire fraud in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1343 before
the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania in, United States v.
Michael Donnelly, Crim. No. 2:15-cr-00501.
5.
The counts of the criminal information to which Donnelly agreed to plead guilty
alleged, inter alia, that Donnelly devised and intended to devise a scheme to defraud his clients and
obtain money and property from them by means of false and fraudulent pretenses, representations,
and promises in connection with the purchase and sale of securities.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Donnelly’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, and
Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act, that Respondent Donnelly be, and hereby is barred from
association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal
advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating organization; and
2

Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent Donnelly be, and hereby is
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder,
consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for
purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the
purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

