UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78054 / June 13, 2016
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 32147 / June 13, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17288

In the Matter of
SCHOOL BUSINESS
CONSULTING, INC. and
TERRANCE BRADLEY
Respondents.

ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
AND CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 15B(c) AND 21C,
AND RULE 15Bc4-1 OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AND SECTION
9(b) OF THE INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT
OF 1940, MAKING FINDINGS, AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A
CEASE-AND DESIST ORDER

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in
the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby
are, instituted pursuant to Sections 15B(c) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(“Exchange Act”), Rule 15Bc4-1 of the Exchange Act, and Section 9(b) of the Investment
Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”) against School Business Consulting, Inc.
(SBCI) and Terrance Bradley (collectively “Respondents”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of
these proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondents
consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-And-Desist Proceedings
Pursuant to Sections 15B(c) and 21C, and Rule15Bc4-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, Making Findings, Imposing Remedial
Sanctions, and a Cease-And-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offers, the Commission finds1 that:
Summary
1.
This matter involves improper conduct by School Business Consulting, Inc.
(“SBCI”) and its principal, Terrance Bradley. SBCI provides general consulting services to
school districts in California. As part of those consulting services, SBCI makes
recommendations to its school district clients on the selection of municipal advisors.
2.
In 2010 SBCI entered into a contractual arrangement with the municipal advisor
Keygent LLC (“Keygent”) and Bradley began to serve on Keygent’s Advisory Board. In this
role as a member of Keygent’s Advisory Board, Bradley introduced Keygent to school districts
that were seeking to hire a municipal advisor. Among the school districts Bradley solicited on
behalf of Keygent were many of SBCI’s own school district clients. When Bradley solicited
SBCI’s clients for Keygent, he verbally advised school officials of his relationship with Keygent
and recused himself from the school districts’ formal interview process.
3.
In connection with the municipal advisor hiring process for five of those SBCI
clients, Bradley improperly provided Keygent with confidential information about the hiring
process, including advance notice of the draft interview questions, the specifics of some
competitors’ proposals, and other information. SBCI and Bradley did not have authority to share
this information with Keygent and the school districts were unaware it had been provided. Each
of the five school districts subsequently hired Keygent as a municipal advisor.
4.
As a result of the conduct described herein, SBCI willfully violated Section
15B(a)(1)(B) of the Exchange Act, SBCI and Bradley willfully violated Sections 15B(a)(5) and
15B(c)(1) of the Exchange Act and Rule G-17 of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board
(“MSRB”), and Bradley was a cause of SBCI’s violation of Section 15B(a)(1)(B) of the
Exchange Act.
Respondents
5.
School Business Consulting, Inc. is a California corporation formed in 2010 and
located in Fresno, California. SBCI provides consulting services to school districts throughout
the state. In February 2014 SBCI registered with the SEC as a municipal advisor and soliciting
municipal advisor under the temporary registration rules but has not registered under the final
registration rule, which was effective July 1, 2014, and has never registered with the MSRB.
6.
Terrance Bradley, age 72, of Fresno, California, has been the President and sole
shareholder of SBCI since its formation and is its sole employee.

1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.

2

Other Relevant Entity
7.
Keygent LLC is a California limited liability company located in El Segundo,
California. Keygent is registered with the Commission and the MSRB as a municipal advisor.
Facts
SBCI Provides Consulting Services to California School Districts
8.
Terrance Bradley was employed by a California school district for 26 years and
served in various administrative and business office roles, including as the district’s
Superintendent for 7 years before retiring in 2009. Bradley is well known among school district
officials throughout California as a result of his many years in the field. After retirement,
Bradley formed SBCI in 2010 to provide business consulting services for school districts.
9.
SBCI’s consulting work with school districts sometimes included assistance with
finance and budgeting matters, which involved assisting clients with hiring financial
professionals such as municipal advisors. Bradley was often involved in drafting the request for
qualifications (“RFQ”) document that districts send out in which they seek proposals from
candidates for open municipal advisor positions. Bradley also drafted interview questions and
helped the school districts to review proposals received from the candidates. At issue here is the
conduct of SBCI and Bradley in the municipal advisor hiring process for certain of SBCI’s
consulting clients.
SBCI Served on Keygent’s Advisory Board and
Solicited New Clients for Keygent
10.
In September 2010 Keygent, a registered municipal advisor whose advisory
business focuses solely on advising school districts and community colleges that issue bonds in
California, retained SBCI to serve on Keygent’s Advisory Board, for which Keygent paid SBCI
$2,500 monthly. SBCI served on Keygent’s Advisory Board from September 2010 through June
2014. The Advisory Board contract stated that SBCI was to “advise senior management on
strategy, new business development, public policy, and research.” Through this arrangement,
Keygent gained access to Bradley’s extensive contacts in California to pursue new municipal
advisory clients. Keygent provided Bradley with names of school districts that it identified as
having refinancing opportunities and asked Bradley to facilitate introductions. Bradley, in turn,
contacted the school districts, recommended Keygent and its services and suggested setting up
meetings with Keygent personnel.
11.
Among the school districts Bradley solicited on behalf of Keygent were many of
SBCI’s own school district clients. For some of these, Bradley reviewed Keygent’s pitch books
before Keygent sent them to the school districts. Bradley also sometimes separately
recommended to his clients that they meet with Keygent to discuss Keygent’s ideas for possible
bond refinancing.

3

Bradley Improperly Provided Confidential Information to Keygent
12.
During the municipal advisor hiring process for five SBCI school district clients,
SBCI improperly provided confidential information to Keygent. California law does not
mandate that school districts use a bidding process when hiring financial professionals but many
choose to do so in order to interview multiple candidates and make the best hiring decision.
Bradley drafted, or assisted in drafting, the RFQ documents used by the five school districts at
issue here to commence the municipal advisor hiring process. For each of those school districts,
candidates for the municipal advisor position were expressly directed not to make contact with
anyone at the district other than the single official specified in the RFQ. The purpose of this
limitation was for the school districts to be able to control the information disseminated to the
candidates and to make sure all competitors were on an even footing in the process.
13.
Despite this instruction, Bradley provided confidential information to Keygent
which could have given Keygent an advantage in the competitive hiring process for five school
districts. The following are examples:


Bradley gave Keygent advance copies of draft interview questions on several occasions,
and Keygent also provided input in the initial drafting of the questions on one occasion so
they were aware going into the interview what could be asked;



For one school district, Bradley gave Keygent a draft of the district’s RFQ document and
then incorporated a change to the document suggested by Keygent which was designed to
require a known competitor to disclose in its proposal potentially negative information
concerning a past legal issue;



For two of these school districts, after they received the proposals from the municipal
advisor candidates, including Keygent, Bradley shared information about competitors’
proposals with Keygent, including, in one instance, a chart with all of the other
candidates’ fee proposals and, in another instance, a copy of the entire proposal submitted
by one of the candidates;



Bradley discussed with Keygent how to answer certain interview questions and suggested
topics they could discuss at the interview to preempt other candidates’ proposals.

14.
None of the five school districts were aware that Bradley had shared this
information with Keygent, nor was Bradley authorized by the school districts to do so. Bradley
did not share this information with any of the municipal advisor candidates except Keygent.
Although Bradley informed school district officials of his relationship with Keygent and recused
himself from four of the five school districts’ interview process, he continued to recommend
Keygent and each of the five school districts ultimately hired Keygent as municipal advisor after
the interviews.2 Bradley was aware that the school districts intended to control the flow of
information during the hiring process through an individual other than Bradley, and that Bradley
was providing Keygent with information to which it would otherwise not be entitled.
2

One of the school districts insisted that Bradley attend the interviews after he had informed officials that he
felt he had a conflict.

4

Violations
15. Municipal advisors include financial advisors who assist municipal entities with
bond offerings, reinvestment of bond proceeds and the structuring and pricing of related
products. See Commission Report on the Municipal Securities Market (July 31, 2012) at 45,
available at http://sec.gov/news/studies/2012/munireport073112.pdf. In 2010, Congress passed
the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”), which
included provisions for the registration and regulation of municipal advisors. The adopting
release for the registration rules notes that the municipal advisor registration requirements and
regulatory standards were intended to mitigate some of the issues observed with the conduct of
some municipal advisors, including undisclosed conflicts of interest and failure to place the duty
of loyalty to their municipal entity clients ahead of their own interests. See Registration of
Municipal Advisors, SEC Release No. 34-70462, 78 Fed. Reg. 67468, 67469 (September 20,
2010). The registration requirement also applies to entities that solicit municipal advisory
business on behalf of other municipal advisors. See Exchange Act, Section 15B(a)(1)(B).
16.
As described above, SBCI was engaged in the “solicitation of a municipal entity”
as that term is defined in Section 15B(e)(9) of the Exchange Act because it received direct
compensation from Keygent and the solicitation of school districts on behalf of Keygent was for
the “purpose of obtaining or retaining an engagement . . . in connection with . . . the issuance of
municipal securities.” Accordingly, SBCI should have registered as a municipal advisor
pursuant to Section 15B(a)(1)(B) of the Exchange Act from the time it began soliciting for
Keygent. Bradley, as SBCI’s principal and sole employee, caused SBCI’s violation.
17.
Section 15B(c)(1) of the Exchange Act, as amended by Section 975 of the DoddFrank Act, imposes upon municipal advisors and their associated persons a fiduciary duty to
their municipal entity clients, and prohibits them from engaging in any act, practice, or course of
business that is not consistent with their fiduciary duty. It is well settled that fiduciaries must act
in utmost good faith, use reasonable care to avoid misleading clients, and fully and fairly
disclose conflicts of interest. SEC v. Capital Gains Research Bureau, Inc., 375 U.S. 180, 194
(1963).
18.
MSRB Rule G-17 states that, in the conduct of its municipal securities business,
every broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer, and municipal advisor shall deal fairly with all
persons and shall not engage in any deceptive, dishonest, or unfair practice. Negligence is
sufficient to establish a violation of MSRB Rule G-17. See In the Matter of Merrill Lynch,
Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc., Exchange Act Release No. 40352, 1998 WL 518489, at *13 (Aug.
24, 1998). Section 15B(c)(1) of the Exchange Act requires that municipal advisors shall not act
in contravention to any MSRB rule in the provision of advice to or on behalf of a municipal
entity or in undertaking a solicitation of a municipal entity.
19.
Similarly, Section 15B(a)(5) of the Exchange Act states that municipal advisors
shall not engage in any fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative act or practice, while undertaking
the solicitation of a municipal entity.

5

20.
As a result of the conduct described above, SBCI violated Section 15B(a)(1)(B)
by failing to register as a municipal advisor. Furthermore, SBCI and Bradley willfully violated
Section 15B(c)(1) of the Exchange Act by breaching their fiduciary duty, willfully violated
Section 15B(c)(1) of the Exchange Act by violating MSRB Rule G-17, and willfully violated
Section 15B(a)(5) of the Exchange Act. Bradley was a cause of SBCI’s violation of Section
15B(a)(1)(B) of the Exchange Act.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate, and in the public interest,
to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondents’ Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Sections 15B(c) and 21C of the Exchange Act as to SBCI, and
pursuant to Section 21C and Rule 15Bc4-1 of the Exchange Act, and Section 9(b) of the
Investment Company Act as to Bradley, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Respondents cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any
future violations of Sections 15B(a)(1)(B), 15B(a)(5), and 15B(c)(1) of the Exchange Act, and
MSRB Rule G-17.
B.

Respondent Bradley is hereby:
(1) barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal
securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized
statistical rating organization; and
(2) prohibited from serving or acting as an employee, officer, director, member of an
advisory board, investment adviser or depositor of, or principal underwriter for, a
registered investment company or affiliated person of such investment adviser,
depositor, or principal underwriter.

C.
Any reapplication for association by Bradley will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against Bradley, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that
served as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration
award to a customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the
Commission order; and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not
related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order.
D.

Respondent SBCI is censured.

E.
SBCI shall pay a civil money penalty in the amount of $30,000 and Bradley shall
pay a civil money penalty in the amount of $20,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission,
of which $6,250 shall be transferred to the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board in
6

accordance with Section 15B(c)(9)(A) of the Exchange Act, and of which the remaining $43,750
shall be transferred to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act
Section 21F(g)(3). Payment shall be made by SBCI in the following installments: $15,000 due
ten (10) days from the date of the Order, and $15,000 due twelve (12) months from the date of
the Order. If any payment from SBCI is not made by the date the payment is required by this
Order, the entire outstanding balance of its civil penalty, plus any additional interest accrued
pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717, shall be due and payable immediately, without further application.
Payment shall be made by Bradley in the following installments: $10,000 due ten (10) days from
the date of the Order, and $10,000 due twelve (12) months from the date of the Order. If any
payment from Bradley is not made by the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire
outstanding balance of his civil penalty, plus any additional interest accrued pursuant to 31
U.S.C. § 3717, shall be due and payable immediately, without further application. Payment must
be made in one of the following ways:
(1)

Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the Commission,
which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon
request;

(2)

Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:
Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
SBCI or Bradley, respectively, as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of
these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to LeeAnn
Ghazil Gaunt, Chief, Municipal Securities and Public Pensions Unit, Securities and Exchange
Commission, 33 Arch Street, 23rd Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1424.
F.
Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall
be treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondents agree that in any Related Investor
Action, they shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall they benefit by, offset or reduction
of any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondents’ payment of a
civil penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants
such a Penalty Offset, Respondents agree that they shall, within 30 days after entry of a final
order granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the
amount of the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall
7

not be deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the
civil penalty imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor
Action” means a private damages action brought against Respondents by or on behalf of one or
more investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the
Commission in this proceeding.
V.
It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by
Respondent Bradley, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or
other amounts due by Respondent Bradley under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent
order, decree or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the
violation by Respondent Bradley of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued
under such laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19).

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

8

