UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77362 / March 14, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4351 / March 14, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17169
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASEAND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934 AND SECTIONS 203(e) AND
203(k) OF THE INVESTMENT
ADVISERS ACT OF 1940, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A
CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER

In the Matter of
Royal Alliance Associates, Inc.,
SagePoint Financial, Inc. and FSC
Securities Corporation,
Respondents.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate
and in the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be,
and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Sections 203(e) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act
of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Royal Alliance Associates, Inc. (“Royal Alliance”),
SagePoint Financial, Inc. (“SagePoint”) and FSC Securities Corporation (“FSC,” and
collectively with Royal Alliance and SagePoint, the “Advisor Group Firms” or
“Respondents”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have
submitted an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to
accept. Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought
by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without
admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over
them and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents

consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist
Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and
Sections 203(e) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings,
and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth
below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offer, the Commission finds1 that:
SUMMARY
1.
This proceeding arises from breaches of fiduciary duty and multiple
compliance failures by Respondents Royal Alliance, SagePoint and FSC in their feebased advisory businesses. American International Group, Inc. (“AIG”) indirectly owns
Respondents, which comprise one of the largest networks of independent, dual-registered
broker-dealers and investment advisers in the U.S.
2.
From at least 2012 to 2014, Respondents invested advisory clients in
mutual fund share classes with 12b-1 fees instead of lower-fee share classes of the same
funds that were available without 12b-1 fees. The affected clients were advisory clients
whom Advisor Group Firms invested in a fee-based advisory service called the Advisor
Managed Portfolio (“AMP”) in accounts that are not qualified retirement or ERISA
accounts, where 12b-1 fees are rebated. In their capacity as broker-dealers, Respondents
received 12b-1 fees paid by the funds in which AMP advisory clients invested. By
investing these non-qualified advisory clients in the higher-fee share classes,
Respondents received approximately $2 million in 12b-1 fees that they would not have
collected from the lower-fee share classes.
3.
Respondents failed to disclose in their Forms ADV or otherwise that they
had a conflict of interest due to a financial incentive to place non-qualified advisory
clients in higher-fee mutual fund share classes. As a result, Respondents breached their
fiduciary duties as investment advisers to certain of their AMP advisory clients by
investing them in higher-fee mutual fund share classes. In addition, Respondents failed
to adopt any compliance policy governing mutual fund share class selection.
4.
During 2013, Respondents also failed to monitor advisory accounts
quarterly for inactivity or “reverse churning” as required under their compliance policies
and procedures to ensure that fee-based advisory or “wrap” accounts that charged an
inclusive fee for both advisory services and trading costs remained in the best interest of
1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offer of Settlement and are not binding on
any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.

2

clients that traded infrequently. Even though Commission examination staff previously
had cited the firms for failing to conduct such monitoring several years earlier,
Respondents did not conduct their inactive account review on a timely basis for the fourth
quarter of 2012 and the first and second quarters of 2013.
5.
By virtue of this conduct, Respondents violated Sections 206(2), 206(4)
and 207 of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-7 thereunder.
RESPONDENTS
6.
Royal Alliance Associates, Inc., a Delaware corporation, is a dualregistered broker-dealer and investment adviser. Royal Alliance has been registered as
an investment adviser with the Commission since September 1997 and as a broker-dealer
since October 1988. Royal Alliance has its main offices in New York, New York. Royal
Alliance has over 2,000 financial advisors across 818 branch offices in the U.S. As of
December 31, 2014, Royal Alliance managed 15,435 advisory accounts with
approximately $3.9 billion in assets. American International Group, Inc. (NYSE:AIG), a
publicly-traded company, indirectly owns Royal Alliance.
7.
SagePoint Financial, Inc., a Delaware corporation, is a dual-registered
broker-dealer and investment adviser. SagePoint has been registered as an investment
adviser with the Commission since October 2005 and as a broker-dealer since May 2005.
SagePoint has its main office in Phoenix, Arizona. SagePoint has over 1,700 financial
advisors across 1,030 branch offices in the U.S. As of December 31, 2014, SagePoint
managed 19,612 advisory accounts with approximately $4.0 billion in assets. AIG
indirectly owns SagePoint.
8.
FSC Securities Corporation, a Delaware corporation, is a dual-registered
broker-dealer and investment adviser. FSC has been registered as an investment adviser
with the Commission since August 1992 and as a broker-dealer since June 1977. FSC
has its main office in Atlanta, Georgia. FSC has over 1,200 financial advisors across 700
branch offices in the U.S. As of December 31, 2014, FSC managed 21,871 advisory
accounts with approximately $5.3 billion in assets. AIG indirectly owns FSC.
RELEVANT PARTY
9.
AIG Advisor Group, Inc. (“AIG Advisor”), a Maryland corporation, is a
holding company that owns Royal Alliance, SagePoint and FSC. AIG Advisor is
headquartered in New York, New York. AIG Advisor provides Respondents with certain
shared services, including compliance support for their advisory businesses. AIG
indirectly owns AIG Advisor.

3

FACTS
Background
10.
Royal Alliance, SagePoint and FSC offer both brokerage and investment
advisory services through financial advisors who are independent contractors.
Respondents together have over 5,500 financial advisors in 2,548 branch offices across
the U.S.
11.
As broker-dealers, Advisor Group Firms offer commission based or
brokerage services to customers through financial advisors in their capacity as registered
representatives of that broker-dealer. As registered investment advisers, Advisor Group
Firms offer investment advisory products and services through the same financial
advisors but in their capacity as investment advisory representatives or IARs.
12.
During the relevant period, Advisor Group Firms failed to devote
sufficient resources to their compliance infrastructure to support their investment
advisory business. As a result, several compliance failures at Advisor Group Firms in
their fee-based advisory businesses contributed to the violations described below.
The AMP Program
13.
Advisor Group Firms primarily service retail clients, including those
saving for retirement. The Advisor Managed Portfolios or AMP program is their largest
fee-based advisory service based on assets. The minimum account size required for
opening an AMP account is $50,000.
14.
In the AMP program, advisory clients can be invested in portfolios of
securities, including stocks, bonds and mutual funds, based on their investment
objectives and needs. Clients pay an ongoing advisory fee in the form of either an
inclusive “wrap” fee that covers both advisory services and trading costs, or,
alternatively, a “non-wrap” fee for advisory services with trading costs paid separately.
The annual advisory fee is payable quarterly, in advance, based on the market value of
the assets in their accounts. Subject to certain maximum account fees based on various
breakpoints for account size, advisory fees are individually negotiated with clients.
15.
As part of their “open architecture” platform, Advisor Group Firms offer
AMP clients the opportunity to invest not only in AIG-related funds, but also in a wide
selection of mutual funds available in the industry. As of December 31, 2014, Advisor
Group Firms managed approximately $9.8 billion in AMP wrap accounts, which
included approximately $6.0 billion in mutual fund investments.

4

Mutual Fund Share Class Selection in AMP Accounts
16.
Advisor Group Firms offer AMP advisory clients a wide selection of
mutual funds across numerous mutual fund complexes, including multiple share classes
of the same funds. Mutual funds typically offer investors different types of shares or
“classes.” Each share class represents an interest in the same portfolio of securities with
the same investment objective. The primary difference among the various share classes
is their fee structure.
17.
Class A shares were one of the more common mutual fund share classes
that Advisor Group Firms purchased for AMP advisory clients during the relevant period
from 2012 to 2014. Class A shares typically are purchased by retail brokerage customers
in brokerage accounts, but also can be purchased by retail advisory clients in advisory
accounts. Class A shares are sold with sales charges or sales “loads” in retail brokerage
accounts based on the dollar amount of the investment, but the sales charges are waived
when purchased in fee-based accounts. However, even these “load-waived” Class A
shares in fee-based accounts continue to pay what is known as a 12b-1 fee, a fee paid by
a mutual fund on an ongoing basis from its assets for shareholding services, distribution
and marketing expenses.2 The 12b-1 fee for Class A shares is typically 25 basis points.
Class A shares also are subject to initial minimum investment requirements that are
usually not higher than $2,500.
18.
In addition to load-waived Class A or equivalent “no load” share classes,3
many mutual funds in recent years have begun to offer share classes exclusively for feebased advisory accounts such as “institutional” or “advisory” share classes that do not
include 12b-1 fees. Institutional shares, which are sometimes designated as “Class I”
shares, have higher initial investment minimums (e.g., $1 million) than Class A or
equivalent no load or load-waived share classes, while advisory shares have similar
investment minimums as Class A or equivalent shares. Many mutual funds waive or
substantially reduce the minimum investment requirement for institutional shares in feebased advisory accounts. The terms and eligibility requirements for any particular share
class are described in a mutual fund’s prospectus.
19.
When a retail investor in a fee-based account such as AMP is eligible for
advisory shares, institutional shares or any similar lower-fee share class of the same
mutual fund, it is generally in the investor’s best interest to purchase the lower-fee share
2

12b-1 fees are paid to the fund’s distributor or underwriter, which, in turn, generally remits the fees to the
broker-dealer that distributes or “sells” the fund’s shares. Advisor Group Firms shared substantially all of
the 12b-1 fees that they received in their capacity as broker-dealers from their advisory clients with their
representatives as compensation.
3

Certain mutual funds known as “no load” funds can be purchased in fee-based accounts but may have
12b-1 fees. These no load funds are equivalent to “load-waived” Class A shares in fee-based accounts.

5

class rather than the higher-fee share class because the investor’s returns are not reduced
by 12b-1 fees. Accordingly, where there is no credit, offset or similar adjustment for
12b-1 fees, the retail advisory client would benefit from higher investment returns over
time by investing in the lower-fee share classes.
20.
From 2012 to 2014, Advisor Group Firms invested certain of their AMP
clients in share classes with 12b-1 fees when lower-fee share classes of those same funds
without 12b-1 fees were available in many instances. As a result, Advisor Group Firms
received approximately $2 million in 12b-1 fees that they would not have collected had
they invested those AMP clients in available lower-fee share classes.
Inadequate Disclosure Concerning Mutual Fund Share Class Selection
and a Related Compliance Deficiency
21.
During the relevant period, Advisor Group Firms disclosed in their
respective Forms ADV that the firms may receive 12b-1 fees from mutual fund
investments in fee-based advisory accounts. However, Advisor Group Firms did not
disclose in their Forms ADV or otherwise that they had a conflict of interest with respect
to selecting mutual fund share classes due to a financial incentive to place non-qualified
advisory clients in higher-fee share classes over lower-fee share classes of the same
mutual fund.4 Neither Advisor Group Firms’ client service agreements nor any other
account documentation included any such disclosure concerning mutual fund share class
selection.
22.
As a result, Advisor Group Firms breached their fiduciary duties to certain
of their AMP advisory clients by investing them in higher-fee mutual fund share classes
instead of available lower-fee share classes of the same funds. Additionally, Advisor
Group Firms failed to adopt during the relevant period any written compliance policy or
procedures governing mutual fund share class selection.
Failure to Implement Compliance Policies and Procedures Requiring
Monitoring for Reverse Churning
23.
Under their advisory compliance policies and procedures in effect since at
least 2009, Advisor Group Firms were required to monitor the level of trading activity in
their advisory accounts for inactivity or “reverse churning.” Reverse churning generally
refers to the practice where a client is charged a wrap fee that covers all advisory services
and trading costs even though the client trades infrequently. A wrap fee account may not
be in the best interest of a client with minimal or no trading activity as compared to a
non-wrap fee account or brokerage account where the client would otherwise pay trading

4

See, e.g., Item 5.E. of Part 2A of Form ADV.

6

costs as incurred but a lower fee in a non-wrap account or no advisory fee in a brokerage
account.
24.
More specifically, under their advisory compliance policies and
procedures, Advisor Group Firms were required to review “inactive” wrap fee accounts
with three or fewer transactions during the previous 18-month period on a quarterly basis.
The purpose of the review was to make sure that these wrap fee accounts remained in the
best interest of advisory clients with minimal trading activity based on their current
investment needs and objectives.
25.
In 2010, staff from the Commission’s Office of Compliance Inspections
and Examinations (“OCIE”) conducted an examination of SagePoint, followed by
examinations in 2011 of Royal Alliance and FSC. During these examinations, OCIE
discovered that there had been an 18-month lapse from the first quarter 2008 until the
third quarter 2009 in Advisor Group Firms’ inactive account review. Following the
examinations, Advisor Group Firms refunded certain advisory clients a total of $526,739,
as well as enhanced their inactive account review procedures.
26.
In September 2013, OCIE began another examination of Royal Alliance,
which was then followed by examinations of SagePoint and FSC in 2014. During the
Royal Alliance examination, Advisor Group Firms informed OCIE that there had been
another lapse in their inactive account review that occurred in 2013. Beginning in early
2013, Advisor Group Firms did not conduct their inactive account review on a timely
basis for the fourth quarter of 2012. Advisor Group Firms also did not timely conduct
their inactive account review for the first and second quarters of 2013. Upon discovering
the lapse in August 2013, Advisor Group Firms initiated the inactive account review for
the previous two quarters and completed the review for the fourth quarter 2012.
27.
Following the 2013-14 OCIE examinations, Advisor Group Firms
refunded 1,392 advisory clients a total amount of $739,500.
VIOLATIONS
28.
As a result of the conduct described above, Respondents willfully5
violated Section 206(2) of the Advisers Act, which prohibits an investment adviser,
directly or indirectly, from engaging “in any transaction, practice, or course of business
which operates as a fraud or deceit upon any client or prospective client.” A violation of
Section 206(2) may rest on a finding of simple negligence. SEC v. Steadman, 967 F.2d
5

A willful violation of the securities laws means merely “‘that the person charged with the duty knows
what he is doing.’” Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000) (quoting Hughes v. SEC, 174
F.2d 969, 977 (D.C. Cir. 1949)). There is no requirement that the actor “‘also be aware that he is
violating one of the Rules or Acts.’” Id. (quoting Gearhart & Otis, Inc. v. SEC, 348 F.2d 798, 803 (D.C.
Cir. 1965)).

7

636, 643 n.5 (D.C. Cir. 1992) (citing SEC v. Capital Gains Research Bureau, Inc., 375
U.S. 180, 195 (1963)). Proof of scienter is not required to establish a violation of Section
206(2) of the Advisers Act. Id.
29.
As a result of the conduct described above, Respondents willfully violated
Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-7 thereunder, which requires a
registered investment adviser to adopt and implement written compliance policies and
procedures reasonably designed to prevent violations of the Advisers Act and the rules
thereunder.
30.
As a result of the conduct described above, Respondents willfully violated
Section 207 of the Advisers Act, which makes it “unlawful for any person willfully to
make any untrue statement of a material fact in any registration application or report filed
with the Commission . . . or willfully to omit to state in any such application or report any
material fact which is required to be stated therein.”
REMEDIAL EFFORTS
31.
In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial
acts taken by Respondents and cooperation afforded by them to the Commission staff.
UNDERTAKINGS
Respondents have undertaken the following:
32.
Independent Compliance Consultant. Within 180 days of the date of this
Order, Respondents shall retain an independent compliance consultant (“Independent
Consultant”) that is not unacceptable to the Commission staff. The Independent
Consultant’s compensation and expenses shall be borne exclusively by Respondents.
Prior to the retention of the Independent Consultant, Respondents shall provide to the
Commission staff a copy of the engagement letter detailing the Independent Consultant’s
responsibilities, including the reviews to be made by the Independent Consultant as
described in this Order.
33.

Respondents shall require that the Independent Consultant:

a.
conduct a comprehensive review of Respondents’ compliance
policies and procedures (“compliance program”) required by Section 206(4) of the
Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-7 thereunder, including the adequacy and effectiveness of
Respondents’ policies, procedures, controls, recordkeeping and systems relating to: (i)
mutual fund share class selection; (ii) the rebating or crediting of mutual fund fees and
expenses, including 12b-1 fees, to advisory clients, as may be required; and
(iii) Respondents’ review of advisory accounts for inactivity;

8

b.
recommend any additional policies and procedures or
improvements or changes to any existing policies and procedures which the Independent
Consultant believes are necessary based on its review to ensure that Respondents’
compliance program is adequate and effective (the “Recommendations”); and
c.
submit to Respondents and the Commission staff, within 45 days
of the completion of its review, and in any event no later than 210 days after being
retained by Respondents, a written report (the “Report”) of its findings, which shall
include the scope of the review, the results and conclusions of the review, and any
Recommendations.
34.
Respondents shall adopt and implement all Recommendations of the
Independent Consultant within 120 days of the submission of the Report; provided,
however, that within 30 days after the submission of the Report, Respondents shall in
writing advise the Independent Consultant and the Commission staff of any
Recommendation that Respondents consider to be unnecessary, inappropriate or unduly
burdensome. With respect to any Recommendation that Respondents consider
unnecessary, inappropriate or unduly burdensome, Respondents need not adopt and
implement that Recommendation at the time but shall propose in writing an alternative
policy, procedure or system designed to achieve the same objective or purpose. As to
any disputed Recommendation, Respondents shall attempt in good faith to reach an
agreement on an alternative proposal within 30 days after Respondents in writing advised
the Independent Consultant and the Commission staff of their disagreement with the
Recommendation. Within 30 days after the conclusion of the evaluation by Respondents
and the Independent Consultant of an alternative proposal for any disputed
Recommendation, Respondents shall require the Independent Consultant to inform
Respondents and the Commission staff in writing of the Independent Consultant’s final
determination concerning the disputed Recommendation. Respondents shall abide by the
final determination of the Independent Consultant with respect to any disputed
Recommendation. Within 90 days after a final determination by the Independent
Consultant with respect to any disputed Recommendation, Respondents shall adopt and
implement the final Recommendation that the Independent Consultant deems appropriate.
35.
Within 90 days of Respondents’ adoption and implementation of all of the
Recommendations as determined pursuant to the procedures set forth herein,
Respondents shall certify in writing to the Independent Consultant and the Commission
staff that Respondents have adopted and implemented all of the Recommendations made
by the Independent Consultant. Unless otherwise directed by the Commission staff, the
certification, Report and any other documents required to be provided to the Commission
staff shall be sent to Panayiota K. Bougiamas, Assistant Regional Director, Asset
Management Unit, New York Regional Office, Securities and Exchange Commission,
Brookfield Place, 200 Vesey Street, Suite 400, New York, New York, 10281, or such
other address as the Commission staff may provide.

9

36.
Respondents shall cooperate fully with the Independent Consultant and
shall provide the Independent Consultant with access to their files, books, records and
personnel as reasonably requested by the Independent Consultant for review.
37.
Respondents shall not be in and shall not have an attorney client
relationship with the Independent Consultant, and shall not seek to invoke the attorneyclient privilege or any other doctrine or privilege to prevent the Independent Consultant
from transmitting any information, reports or documents to the Commission staff.
38.
To ensure the independence of the Independent Consultant, Respondents:
(i) shall not have the authority to terminate the Independent Consultant or substitute
another independent compliance consultant for the initial Independent Consultant,
without the prior written approval of the Commission staff; and (ii) shall compensate the
Independent Consultant and persons engaged to assist the Independent Consultant for
services rendered pursuant to this Order at their reasonable and customary rates.
39.
Respondents shall require the Independent Consultant to enter into an
agreement that provides that for the period of the engagement and for a period of two (2)
years from completion of the engagement, the Independent Consultant shall not enter into
any employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship
with Respondents, or any of their present or former affiliates, directors, officers,
employees or agents acting in their capacity as such. The agreement will also provide
that the Independent Consultant will require that any firm with which the Independent
Consultant is affiliated or of which the Independent Consultant is a member, and any
person engaged to assist the Independent Consultant in the performance of the
Independent Consultant’s duties under this Order shall not, without prior written consent
of the Commission staff, enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing
or other professional relationship with Respondents, or any of their present or former
affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity as such for the
period of the engagement and for a period of two (2) years after the engagement.
40.
Recordkeeping. Respondents shall preserve for a period of not less than
six (6) years from the end of the fiscal year last used, the first two (2) years in an easily
accessible place, any record of Respondents’ compliance with the undertakings set forth
in this Order.
41.
Deadlines. The Commission staff shall have the authority, in its
discretion, to extend any of the procedural dates relating to the undertakings. Deadlines
for procedural dates shall be counted in calendar days, except that if the last day falls on a
weekend or federal holiday, the next business day shall be considered to be the last day.
42.
Certifications of Compliance by Respondents. As set forth in paragraph
35, Respondents shall certify in writing compliance with their undertakings set forth
above. The certification shall identify the undertakings, provide written evidence of

10

compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits sufficient to
demonstrate compliance. The Commission staff may make reasonable requests for
further evidence of compliance, and Respondents agree to provide such evidence. Unless
otherwise directed by the Commission staff, the certification and supporting material
shall be sent to Panayiota K. Bougiamas, Assistant Regional Director, Asset Management
Unit, New York Regional Office, Securities and Exchange Commission, Brookfield
Place, 200 Vesey Street, Suite 400, New York, New York, 10281, or such other address
as the Commission staff may provide, with a copy to the Office of Chief Counsel of the
Enforcement Division, no later than thirty (30) days from the date of the completion of
the undertakings.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public
interest to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondents’ Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act and Sections 203(e)
and 203(k) of the Advisers Act, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.

Respondents shall cease and desist from committing or causing any
violations and any future violations of Sections 206(2), 206(4) and 207 of
the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-7 thereunder.

B.

Respondents are censured.

C.

Within ten (10) days of entry of this Order, Respondents, jointly and
severally, shall pay a total of $2,049,859 consisting of disgorgement of
$1,956,460 and prejudgment interest of $93,399 to the Securities and
Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States
Treasury in accordance with the Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If
timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to
SEC Rule of Practice 600. Payment must be made in one of the following
ways: (1) Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the
Commission, which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire
instructions upon request; (2) Respondents may make direct payment from
a bank account via Pay.gov through the SEC website at
http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or (3) Respondents may pay
by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States postal money
order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and
hand-delivered or mailed to:

11

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter
identifying Royal Alliance Associates, Inc., SagePoint Financial, Inc. and
FSC Securities Corporation as the Respondents in these proceedings, and
the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check
or money order must be sent to Marshall Sprung, Co-Chief Asset
Management Unit, Division of Enforcement, Los Angeles Regional
Office, Securities and Exchange Commission, 444 South Flower Street,
Suite 900, Los Angeles, CA 90071.
D.

Respondents, jointly and severally, shall, within ten (10) days of the entry
of this Order, pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of $7.5 million to
the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund
of the United States Treasury in accordance with the Exchange Act
Section 21F(g)(3). If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall
accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717. Payment must be made in one of the
following ways: (1) Respondent may transmit payment electronically to
the Commission, which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire
instructions upon request; (2) Respondent may make direct payment from
a bank account via Pay.gov through the SEC website at
http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or (3) Respondent may pay by
certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States postal money order,
made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and handdelivered or mailed to:
Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter
identifying Royal Alliance Associates, Inc., SagePoint Financial, Inc. and
FSC Securities Corporation as the Respondents in these proceedings, and
the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check
or money order must be sent to Marshall Sprung, Co-Chief Asset
Management Unit, Division of Enforcement, Los Angeles Regional

12

Office, Securities and Exchange Commission, 444 South Flower Street,
Suite 900, Los Angeles, CA 90071.
E.

Respondents shall comply with the undertakings enumerated in Section
III, Paragraphs 32 to 42 above.
By the Commission.
Brent J. Fields
Secretary

13

