UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77271 / March 1, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17147
ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO SECTION
15(b) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934, AND NOTICE OF HEARING

In the Matter of
DEVON C. MCLEAN,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Devon C.
McLean (“Respondent” or “McLean”).
II.
After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement alleges that:
A.

RESPONDENT

1.
From July 2005 through May 2009, Respondent was an owner and the chief
financial officer of Paramount Group LLC (“Paramount”), a purported investment vehicle that
Respondent and Janice D. Rey (“Rey”) set up to operate as a Ponzi investment scheme in St.
Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands. During the time in which Respondent engaged in the conduct
underlying the indictment described below, Respondent was a registered representative associated
with three different broker-dealers registered with the Commission. Respondent, 46 years old, was
a resident of Homestead, Florida and is currently incarcerated.

1

B.

RESPONDENT’S CRIMINAL CONVICTION

2.
On March 5, 2013, McLean pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to
commit wire fraud in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1343 and 1349, before the
District Court of the Virgin Islands in United States v. Devon McLean, 3:11-CR-00038. On July
11, 2013, a judgment in the criminal case was entered against McLean. He was sentenced to a
prison term of 70 months followed by three years of supervised release, and the court ordered him
to make restitution in the amount of $3,006,260 and entered a forfeiture money judgment against
him in the amount of $5.5 million.
3.
The count of the second superseding indictment to which McLean pleaded
guilty alleged, among other things, that from July 2005 through May 2009, Respondent and Rey
conspired to run a Ponzi investment scheme. Respondent and Rey defrauded potential investors in
Paramount by falsely claiming that Paramount was part of Haliburton Co.; that investments with
Paramount were safe; that Paramount was trading in currencies, commodities, and rubies; that
investors would double their money in less than a year; that invested money would be loaned to
companies that would pay high interest rates to Paramount; that Paramount was approved by the
Federal Reserve; and that many prominent individuals were associated with Paramount, such as
then Vice President Dick Cheney. McLean and Rey did not use investors’ funds in the manner
represented, but used the money instead to pay promised returns to earlier investors and for the
personal use and benefit of McLean and Rey.
III.
In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement, the Commission deems it
necessary and appropriate in the public interest that public administrative proceedings be instituted
to determine:
A.
Whether the allegations set forth in Section II hereof are true and, in connection
therewith, to afford McLean an opportunity to establish any defenses to such allegations; and
B.
What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against McLean
pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act.
IV.
IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the questions
set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened at a time and place to be fixed, and before an
Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 of the
Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.110.

2

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent shall file an Answer to the allegations
contained in this Order within twenty (20) days after service of this Order, as provided by Rule 220
of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220.
If Respondent fails to file the directed answer, or fails to appear at a hearing after being duly
notified, the Respondent may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be determined against
him upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of which may be deemed to be true as
provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f) and 310 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R.
§§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f) and 201.310.
This Order shall be served forthwith upon Respondent as provided for in the Commission’s
Rules of Practice.
This Order shall be served upon McLean as provided for in Rule 141(a)(2)(iv) of the
Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R § 201.141(a)(2)(iv), by any method specified in
paragraph (a)(2) of that rule, or by any other method reasonably calculated to give notice, provided
that the method of service used is not prohibited by the law of the foreign country where McLean
may be found.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an initial
decision no later than 210 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to Rule 360(a)(2) of
the Commission’s Rules of Practice.
In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission engaged
in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually related
proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter, except as witness
or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice. Since this proceeding is not “rule making” within
the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it is not deemed subject to the
provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any final Commission action.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

