SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
(Release No. 34-78216; File No. SBSDR-2016-02)
June 30, 2016
Security-Based Swap Data Repositories; DTCC Data Repository (U.S.) LLC; Notice of Filing of
Application for Registration as a Security-Based Swap Data Repository
I.

Introduction
On April 6, 2016 and as amended on April 25, 2016, DTCC Data Repository (U.S.) LLC

(“DDR”) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) a Form SDR
seeking registration as a security-based swap data repository (“SDR”) under Section 13(n) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) 1 and the Commission’s rules promulgated
thereunder. 2 DDR states that it proposes to operate as a registered SDR for security-based swap
(“SBS”) transactions in the credit, equity, and interest rates 3 derivatives asset classes. The
Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments from interested persons regarding
DDR’s Form SDR, 4 and the Commission will consider any comments it receives in making its
determination whether to grant DDR registration as an SDR. 5
1

15 U.S.C. 78m(n)(3).

2

17 CFR 240.13n-1 through 240.13n-12.

3

DDR seeks to include in its application the “rates” asset class based on feedback from
potential DDR participants who have identified certain types of transactions which will be
reported through the interest rate infrastructure within the industry and that the industry
participants have identified as falling under the definition of a SBS. The Commission notes that
DDR’s application is for registration as a SBS data repository, which the Exchange Act defines
as a “person that collects and maintains information or records with respect to transactions or
positions in, or the terms and conditions of, security-based swaps entered into by third parties for
the purpose of providing a centralized recordkeeping facility for security-based swaps.” 15
U.S.C. 78c(a)(75).
4

DDR filed its Form SDR, including the exhibits thereto, electronically with the
Commission. The descriptions set forth in this notice regarding the structure and operations of
DDR have been derived, excerpted, and/or summarized from information in DDR’s Form SDR
application, and principally from DDR’s Rulebook (Exhibit HH.2), which outlines the
1

II.

Background
A.

SDR Registration, Duties and Core Principles, and Regulation SBSR

Section 763(i) of the Dodd-Frank Act added Section 13(n) to the Exchange Act,
which requires an SDR to register with the Commission and provides that, to be registered and
maintain registration as an SDR, an SDR must comply with certain requirements and “core
principles” described in Section 13(n) and any requirement that the Commission may impose by
rule or regulation. 6
The Commission adopted Exchange Act Rules 13n-1 through 13n-12 (“SDR rules”),
which require an SDR to register with the Commission and comply with certain “duties and core
principles.” 7 Among other requirements, the SDR rules require an SDR to collect and maintain
accurate SBS data and make such data available to the Commission and other authorities so that
relevant authorities will be better able to monitor the buildup and concentration of risk exposure
in the SBS market. 8

applicant’s policies and procedures designed to address its statutory and regulatory obligations as
an SDR registered with the Commission. DDR’s Form SDR application and non-confidential
exhibits thereto are available on https://www.sec.gov/cgi-bin/browseedgar?company=dtcc&owner=exclude&action=getcompany. In addition, the public may access
copies of these materials on the Commission’s website at:
https://www.sec.gov/rules/other/2016/dtcc-data-repository-form-sdr.htm.
5

DDR’s Form SDR application also constitutes an application for registration as a
securities information processor. See Exchange Act Release No. 74246 (Feb. 11, 2015), 80 FR
14438, 14458 (Mar. 19, 2015) (“SDR Adopting Release”).
6

15 U.S.C. 78m(n).

7

See SDR Adopting Release, 80 FR 14438.

8

See SDR Adopting Release, 80 FR at 14450.

2

Concurrent with the Commission’s adoption of the SDR rules, the Commission adopted
Regulation SBSR, 9 which, among other things, provides for the reporting of SBS information to
registered SDRs, and the public dissemination of SBS transaction, volume, and pricing
information by registered SDRs. In addition, Regulation SBSR requires each registered SDR to
register with the Commission as a securities information processor. 10
B.

Standard for Granting SDR Registration

To be registered with the Commission as an SDR and maintain such registration, an SDR
is required (absent an exemption) to comply with the requirements and core principles described
in Exchange Act Section 13(n), as well as with any requirements that the Commission adopts by
rule or regulation. 11 Exchange Act Rule 13n-1(c)(3) provides that the Commission shall grant
the registration of an SDR if it finds that the SDR is so organized, and has the capacity, to be
able to (i) assure the prompt, accurate, and reliable performance of its functions as an SDR; (ii)
comply with any applicable provisions of the securities laws and the rules and regulations
thereunder; and (iii) carry out its functions in a manner consistent with the purposes of Section
13(n) of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder. 12 The Commission must
deny registration of an SDR if it does not make such a finding. 13
In determining whether an applicant meets the criteria set forth in Rule 13n-1(c), the
Commission will consider the information reflected by the applicant on its Form SDR, as well as
9

See Exchange Act Release No. 74244 (Feb. 11, 2015), 80 FR 14563 (Mar. 19, 2015)
(“Regulation SBSR Adopting Release”).
10

See Regulation SBSR Adopting Release, 80 FR at 14567.

11

See Exchange Act Section 13(n)(3), 15 U.S.C. 78m(n)(3).

12

See 17 CFR 240.13n-1(c)(3).

13

See id.

3

any additional information obtained from the applicant. For example, Form SDR requires an
applicant to provide, among other things, contact information, a list of the asset class(es) for
which the applicant is collecting and maintaining data or for which it proposes to collect and
maintain data, a description of the functions that it performs or proposes to perform, and general
information regarding its business organization. 14 This, and other information reflected on the
Form SDR, will assist the Commission in understanding the basis for registration as well as the
SDR applicant’s overall business structure, financial condition, track record in providing access
to its services and data, technological reliability, and policies and procedures to comply with its
statutory and regulatory obligations. 15 Furthermore, the information requested in Form SDR will
enable the Commission to assess whether the SDR applicant would be able to comply with the
federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder, and ultimately whether to grant
or deny an application for registration. 16
III.

DDR Application for Registration
DDR currently operates as a trade repository under the regulatory framework of other

authorities. Specifically, DDR is a swap data repository regulated and provisionally registered
by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”). 17 In that capacity, DDR has been

14

See SDR Adopting Release, 80 FR at 14458.

15

See id.

16

See SDR Adopting Release, 80 FR at 14458-59.

17

See Order of Provisional Registration, In the Matter of the Request of DTCC Data
Repository (U.S.), LLC for Provisional Registration as a Swap Data Repository Pursuant to
Section 21 of the Commodity Exchange Act and Part 49 of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’s Regulations (Sept. 19, 2012), available at
http://www.cftc.gov/stellent/groups/public/@otherif/documents/ifdocs/dtccbodsonletter091912.p
df; Order Adding Asset Class, In the Matter of the Request of DTCC Data Repository (U.S.)
LLC to Amend Its Form SDR to Add the Other Commodity Asset Class Pursuant to Part 49 of
4

accepting derivatives data for the commodity, foreign exchange, interest rate, and credit asset
classes in the United States since December 2012. 18 Additionally, in 2014, DDR was approved
by the Ontario Securities Commission, 19 the Autorité des marchés financiers, 20 and the Manitoba
Securities Commission 21 as a Canadian Trade Repository to serve the commodity, credit, equity,
interest rate, and foreign exchange asset classes. 22
A.

Corporate Structure and Governance Arrangements

DDR is a New York limited liability company, and is a wholly owned subsidiary of
DTCC Deriv/SERV LLC, which, in turn, is a wholly owned subsidiary of The Depository Trust
& Clearing Corporation (“DTCC”). 23 DDR is managed by a Board of Directors (“Board”)

the Commission’s Regulations (Dec. 3, 2012), available at
http://www.cftc.gov/stellent/groups/public/@otherif/documents/ifdocs/dtccsdrbodsonltr120312.p
df.
18

See Press Release, DTCC, DTCC Swap Data Repository Real-Time Reporting Now Live
(Jan. 03, 2013), available at http://www.dtcc.com/news/2013/january/03/swap-data-repositoryreal-time.
19

See Ontario Securities Commission, Order (Section 21.2.2 of the Securities Act), in the
Matter of the Securities Act, R.S.O. 1990, Chapter S.5, as amended, and in the Matter of DTCC
Data Repository (U.S.) LLC (Sept. 19, 2014), available at
http://www.osc.gov.on.ca/en/SecuritiesLaw_ord_20140923_dtcc-data-repository.htm.
20

See Autorité des marchés financiers, Decision 2014-PDG-0110, Bulletin 2014-09-25,
Vol. 11, n°38 (Sept. 23, 2014), available at
https://www.lautorite.qc.ca/files/pdf/bulletin/2014/vol11no38/vol11no38_7.pdf.
21

See Manitoba Securities Commission, Order No. 7013 (Oct. 23, 2014), available at
http://docs.mbsecurities.ca/msc/oe/en/105125/1/document.do.
22

Other trade repository subsidiaries of the Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation
(“DTCC”) operate in Europe, Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore, and Australia. See generally
http://dtcc.com/derivatives-services/global-trade-repository.
23

See Exhibit HH.2, Section 2.1. DTCC is the parent company of a variety of entities,
including three clearing agencies registered under Section 17A of the Exchange Act and that
have been designated as systemically important by the Financial Stability Oversight Council
5

responsible for overseeing its operations. 24 The Board (directly or by delegating certain
responsibilities to its committees) fulfills its responsibilities under its charter and DDR’s mission
statement by: (i) overseeing management’s activities in managing, operating, and developing
DDR as a firm and evaluating management’s performance of its responsibilities; (ii) ratifying
management’s selection of the CEO and providing advice and counsel to the CEO; (iii)
providing oversight of the performance of the CEO and of DDR to evaluate whether the business
is being appropriately managed; (iv) setting expectations about DDR’s tone and ethical culture
and reviewing management efforts to instill an appropriate tone and culture; (v) reviewing and
approving DDR’s financial objectives and major corporate plans and actions; (vi) providing
guidance to the CEO and to management in formulating corporate strategy and approving
strategic plans; (vii) providing oversight of risk assessment and risk management monitoring
processes; (viii) providing input and direction to governance structures and practices to position
the Board to fulfill its duties effectively and efficiently consistent with DDR’s principles of
governance; (ix) providing oversight and guidance regarding the design of informational
reporting to the Board and relevant regulators; (x) adopting principles governing new initiative
approval processes and overseeing DDR’s processes relating to new business selection and
development of new businesses and new or expanded products and services, including guidelines
for the analyses supporting any material operational or risk management changes that are
proposed by management; (xi) providing oversight of DDR’s internal and external audit
processes, financial reporting, and disclosure controls and procedures, including approving major

under Title VIII of the Dodd-Frank Act (i.e., the National Securities Clearing Corporation, the
Fixed Income Clearing Corporation, and the Depository Trust Company).
24

See id.

6

changes in auditing and accounting principles and practices; (xii) fostering DDR’s ability to
ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations including derivatives, securities, and
corporation laws and other applicable regulatory guidance and international standards; (xiii)
ensuring that in DDR’s decision-making process an Independent Perspective as defined in
Section 49.2 of the CFTC’s regulations, is considered; 25 and (xiv) performing such other
functions as the Board believes appropriate or necessary, or as otherwise prescribed by rules or
regulations. 26
According to DDR, the number of directors on the Board is determined by DTCC
Deriv/SERV LLC (“DTCC Deriv/SERV”) as the sole LLC member of DDR. 27 DDR represents
that DTCC Deriv/SERV will strive to include on the Board an equal number of representatives
of U.S. and non-U.S. domiciled firms. 28 DDR represents that the Board is composed of
individuals from the following groups: employees of DDR’s users (either fees-paying users or
end users) with derivatives industry experience, buy-side representatives, independents, and
members of DTCC’s senior management or DTCC’s Board of Directors, with the understanding
that at least two Board members will be DTCC senior management or DTCC Board members. 29
DDR represents that DTCC Deriv/SERV’s Nominating Committee shall periodically review the

25

The CFTC has defined the term “Independent Perspective” to mean “a viewpoint that is
impartial regarding competitive, commercial, or industry concerns and contemplates the effect of
a decision on all constituencies involved.” 17 CFR 49.2(a)(6).
26

See Exhibit D.2 (DDR Mission Statement and Board Charter).

27

See Exhibits D (governance narrative), D.2, and HH.2, Section 2.2.

28

See Exhibits D and D.2.

29

See id.; see also Exhibit HH.2, Section 2.2. DDR states that the Board will include
appropriate representation by individuals who are independent as specified by applicable
regulations. See id.

7

Board’s composition to assure that the DDR directors possess the skills required to direct and
oversee management in the best interests of its shareholders and other stakeholders, with these
skills including derivatives industry experience, risk management experience, business
specialization, technical skills, industry stature, and seniority and experience at their own
organizations. 30
Additionally, DDR represents that it welcomes suggestions from market participants of
proposed or alternative candidates to serve on the DDR Board, which may be submitted through
the notices procedures described in the Operating Procedures of DDR’s Rulebook. 31
DDR’s Rulebook provides that its Chief Compliance Officer (“CCO”) is appointed by the
Board and reports directly to the chief executive officer of DDR. 32 The Board is responsible for
the appointment and removal of the CCO and approval of CCO compensation, which is at the
discretion of the Board and effected by majority vote. 33 In addition, the Board shall meet with
the CCO at least annually. 34 According to DDR, the CCO also works directly with the Board in
certain instances, for example, when resolving conflicts of interest. 35 DDR represents that the
CCO’s responsibilities include, but are not limited to, the following items: (i) oversee and review
DDR’s compliance with the applicable regulations; (ii) establish and administer written policies
and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violation of the applicable regulations; (iii) take

30

See Exhibit D.

31

See Exhibit HH.2, Section 2.2 and attached Operating Procedures.

32

See Exhibit HH.2, Section 2.3.

33

See id.

34

See id.

35

See id.

8

reasonable steps to ensure compliance with applicable regulations relating to agreements,
contracts or transactions; (iv) establish procedures for the remediation of non-compliance issues
identified by the CCO through a compliance office review, look-back, internal or external audit
finding, self-reported error, or validated complaint; (v) notify the Board as soon as practicable
upon becoming aware of a circumstance indicating that DDR, or an individual acting on its
behalf, is in non-compliance with the applicable laws of a jurisdiction in which it operates and
either: (a) the non-compliance creates a risk to a DDR User; 36 (b) the non-compliance creates a
risk of harm to the capital markets in which it operates; (c) the non-compliance is part of a
pattern of non-compliance; or (d) the non-compliance may have an impact on DDR’s ability to
carry on business as a trade repository in compliance with applicable law; (vi) establish and
follow appropriate procedures for the handling, management response, remediation, retesting and
closing of noncompliance issues; (vii) establish and administer a written code of ethics; and
(viii) prepare and sign an annual compliance report in accordance with applicable regulations
and associated recordkeeping. 37
DDR directors must comply with DDR’s Board Code of Ethics and Conflicts of Interest
Policy (the “Code”), which is intended to focus directors on their duties as fiduciaries and
provide guidance to directors to help them recognize and deal with ethical issues, provide
mechanisms to report unethical conduct, help foster a culture of honesty and accountability, and
address actual and potential conflicts of interest. 38 In addition, each director is required to
36

DDR defines the term “User” to mean an entity that has executed a DDR User
Agreement, which allows for participation in one or more DDR services or systems. See Exhibit
HH.2, Section 12.
37

See Exhibit HH.2, Section 2.3.

38

See Exhibit D.4 (DDR Board Code of Ethics).

9

complete a certificate attesting to compliance with DDR’s Code upon becoming a director, and,
thereafter, on an annual basis. According to DDR’s Code, key responsibilities for directors
include: (i) acting honestly, in good faith and in the best interests of DDR and all of the users of
DDR; (ii) using best efforts to avoid conflicts between personal and professional interests as they
relate to DDR where possible; (iii) disclosing any conflicts and otherwise pursuing the ethical
handling of conflicts (whether actual or apparent) when conflicts or the appearance of conflicts
are unavoidable; (iv) complying with all applicable laws, regulations and DDR policies; (v)
promptly reporting any violations of the Code to the Chairman of DDR’s Board or to DDR’s
counsel and DDR’s CCO; (vi) seeking guidance where necessary; and (vii) being accountable
personally for adherence to the Code. 39
B.

Description of DDR’s SDR Service

DDR has applied to register as an SDR with the Commission to accept data in respect of
all SBS transactions in the credit, equity, and interest rates derivatives asset classes. 40
DDR represents that, if registered with the Commission, it would, among other things: (i)
perform all of the required functions of an SDR under the Commission’s Rules 13n-1 through
13n-11; (ii) accept, from or on behalf of Users, transaction and life-cycle data for SBS as
specified in the Commission’s Regulation SBSR, as and when required to be reported to an SDR
thereunder; (iii) verify and maintain swap and SBS data as required by such regulations; (iv)
publicly disseminate SBS data as and when required under the Commission’s Regulation SBSR,
either directly or through one or more third parties; (v) provide access to swap and SBS data to
appropriate regulators; and (vi) generate reports with respect to transaction data maintained in
39

See id.

40

See DDR Form SDR, Item 6; see also Exhibit HH.2, Section 3.1.

10

DDR, in each case as specified in further detail in DDR’s Operating Procedures and applicable
publications. 41
C.

Access

DDR represents that it would provide access to its SDR service on a fair, open and equal
basis. 42 According to DDR, access to and usage of its SDR service would be available to all
market participants that engage in SBS transactions, and DDR does not and would not bundle or
tie its SDR services with any other services. 43 DDR represents that to participate in its SDR
services, each User would be required to (i) enter into a User Agreement in one of the forms
provided by DDR and (ii) agree to be bound by the terms of the User Agreement and DDR’s
Operating Procedures. 44 According to DDR, an entity would be permitted to view the records
relating to an individual transaction if it is: (i) a counterparty or an authorized agent of a
counterparty to the transaction; (ii) a regulator and the transaction is reportable to that regulator;
or (iii) a third-party agent submitter of the transaction, provided that agents who are submitters
will not be able to view the current positions, unless authorized by a counterparty to the
transaction, but will be able to see the submission report only for the purpose of viewing the
success or failure of messages submitted by such agents. 45 DDR represents that it shall retain
exclusive control over the system through which its SDR services are provided. 46

41

See Exhibit HH.2, SDR Appendix to the DDR Operating Procedures.

42

See Exhibits U, V, Y, and HH.2, Section 1.1.

43

See Exhibit HH.2, Section 1.1.

44

See Exhibit HH.2, Section 1.2.

45

See Exhibit HH.2, Section 1.3.

46

See id.

11

DDR represents that it may summarily terminate a User’s account and access to SDR
services when the Board determines that: (a) the User has materially breached its User
Agreement, DDR’s Operating Procedures, or the rules contained in its Rulebook, which
threatens or may cause immediate harm to the normal operation of DDR’s system, or any
applicable law including those relating to the regulations administered and enforced by the U.S.
Department of Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control or the Canadian Government Office of
the Superintendent of Financial Institutions; or (b) the User’s account or User’s IT system is

causing material harm to the normal operation of DDR’s system. 47 According to DDR, the
following actions must take place before DDR staff initiates any actions which may result in a
User’s termination of access to the DDR system and, specifically, SDR services: (i) DDR senior
management, as well as DDR’s counsel and CCO, must be involved in any decision to
involuntarily terminate a User; and (ii) the Chairman of the Board of DDR must be notified in
advance of any involuntary termination. 48 DDR represents that, upon a summary termination of
a User’s access pursuant to its rulebook, DDR shall, as soon as possible, notify the impacted
User of the termination in writing or via e-mail, with such notice stating, to the extent
practicable, in general terms how pending transaction submissions and other pending matters
will be affected and what steps are to be taken in connection therewith. 49

47

See Exhibit HH.2, Section 10.3.1.

48

See id.

49

See id. Because persons applying to be SDRs are also applying to be SIPs with the
Commission, the procedures for notifying the Commission of any prohibitions or limitations of
access to services as provided in Section 11A(b)(5)(A) would apply. See SDR Adopting
Release, 80 FR at 14482 (“Rule 909 of Regulation SBSR, which the Commission is concurrently
adopting in a separate release, requires each registered SDR to register as a SIP, and, as such,
Exchange Act Section 11A(b)(5) governs denials of access to services by an SDR. This section
provides that ‘[i]f any registered securities information processor prohibits or limits any person
12

D.

Use of Data

DDR represents that its services would be available to all market participants on a fair,
open and equal basis. DDR represents that a market participant must be on-boarded as a DDR
User to be granted access to the DDR system, receive trade information, confirm or verify
transactions, submit messages, or receive reports. 50 For those market participants that on-board,
DDR would provide a mechanism for Users to access the DDR system to confirm and verify
transactions and provide Unique Identification Code (“UIC”) information as required under its
procedures. Additionally, DDR represents that access to U.S. swap or SBS data maintained by
DDR to market participants is generally prohibited except to: (i) either counterparty to that
particular swap or SBS; (ii) authorized third-party service providers or other parties specifically
authorized by the User or counterparty pursuant to DDR’s Rulebook; (iii) or to appropriate
domestic or foreign regulators in accordance with applicable regulation and DDR’s Rulebook. 51
E.

Asset Classes Accepted; Submission Requirements; Validation

DDR has represented that it would accept data in respect of all SBS trades in the credit
equity, and interest rate 52 derivatives asset classes. 53 DDR has represented that Users would be

in respect of access to services offered, directly or indirectly, by such securities information
processor, the registered securities information processor shall promptly file notice thereof with
the Commission.’ Accordingly, an SDR must promptly notify the Commission if it prohibits or
limits access to any of its services to any person.”).
50

See Exhibit HH.2, Section1.1.

51

See Exhibit HH.2, Section 6.3. With respect to regulator access, DDR also represents
that pursuant to applicable law, the designated regulators (which is defined to include regulators
which supervise DDR, including the Commission and CFTC) shall be provided with direct
electronic access to DDR data reported to DDR in satisfaction of such regulator’s regulatory
mandate to satisfy their legal and regulatory obligations. See id., Sections 6.2 and 12.
52

See n.3 supra.

53

See Form SDR and Exhibit HH.2, Section 3.1.
13

required to submit trade information in the data format required by DDR. DDR would accept
data using the following open-source structured data formats: Financial Products Markup
Language (“FpML”) and Comma-separated Value (“CSV”) file. 54
Exhibits GG.2 (for credit derivatives), GG.4 (for equity derivatives), and GG.6 (for
interest rates) to DDR’s application enumerate the required fields and acceptable values for the
submission of trade information into the DDR system. Upon submission of a transaction, DDR
will perform validation checks to ensure that each submitted record is in the proper format and
will also perform validation and consistency checks against certain data elements, including, for
example, sequencing of time and date fields (e.g., the termination date must be greater than the
trade date). 55 These validation types include:
•

Schema validations - check that a submission is consistent with the
accepted format (i.e., CSV is valid, the fields are formatted correctly);

•

Core validations - the basic checks that ensure the submission can be
accepted into the SDR (i.e., Permission, USI/UTI lock, transaction and
action type consistency validations);

•

Business validation - applied at the point of in-bound submission
processing to ensure integrity and logical consistency. These validations
will ensure that the messages are well formed and provide a logical and
complete description of the core trade economics and ensure that DDR
does not degrade the quality of the information held within the repository

54

See Exhibit GG.3.

55

See Exhibit HH.2, Section 10.1.1.

14

by allowing incomplete or illogical trade descriptions to be accepted and
stored; and
•

Regulatory validations – regulatory-specific validations applied following
the normal business validations. (For example, if the same field is
required by one jurisdiction and is optional for another, the jurisdiction
requiring the field would have a regulatory validation to check for the
field.) 56

DDR further represents that it would accept or reject transactions based on its validation
process. 57 DDR’s policies and procedures state that acceptance messages are called ACKs
(acceptance) and rejection messages are called NACKs (negative acceptance). 58 Where a
transaction is accepted, both the submitting party and its on-boarded counterparty would receive
electronic ACK messages. Where a transaction was not accepted, the submitting party would
receive an electronic NACK message along with an associated error code so that they can correct
the transaction and retransmit to DDR. Where a transaction is accepted but fails one of the
jurisdictional (i.e., regulatory) validations, the submitting party will receive an electronic
notification along with the associated error code so it can correct the transaction and retransmit
to DDR. 59
DDR represents that DDR may reject a transaction record submitted due to the
submission failing to meet DDR validations, including but not limited to the submission failing
56

See Exhibit GG.3.

57

See Exhibit GG.3.

58

See id.

59

See id.

15

to be in a format that can be ingested by DDR, failing to meet jurisdictional (i.e., regulatory)
requirements or failing to provide required data elements. 60 DDR further represents that a
rejected submission is deemed not to have been submitted at all with respect to reporting to the
jurisdiction for which it was rejected, and that it is possible that one transmission is submitted to
comply with reporting in more than one jurisdiction and may be acceptable for one jurisdiction,
but rejected for the other. 61
In connection with the reporting of “pre-enactment and transitional SBS,” DDR
represents that it will accept the following types of historical trades: (i) “Historical Expired,”
which are pre-enactment SBS executed before July 21, 2010 but expired or terminated before the
compliance date for Regulation SBSR, (ii) “Historical,” which are transitional SBS executed
after July 21, 2010 but expired or terminated before the compliance date for Regulation SBSR,
and (iii) “Backload,” which are pre-enactment SBS or transitional SBS in existence on or after
the compliance date for Regulation SBSR. 62 DDR states that it does not validate whether or not
the historical expired trade satisfies the Commission’s definition of an expired pre-enactment or
transitional swap, and that the Historical and Historical Expired trades will be subject to a
minimal set of validations in order for the submission to be accepted by DDR, which will focus
on core fields necessary for the system to ingest the trade (including a valid Unique Transaction
Identifier). 63 DDR further states that Backload trades will have the standard validations that are

60

See id.

61

See Exhibit HH.2, Section 1.2 and Exhibit GG.3.

62

See Exhibit GG.3.

63

See id.

16

applied on all SBS submissions and must meet the requirements in order for the submission to be
ingested and reported to the Commission. 64
F.

Verification of Transaction Data

DDR represents that its SDR services verification processes are designed to reasonably
establish that the transaction data that has been submitted to DDR is complete and accurate. 65
Once a position is established either through a snapshot or DDR’s own calculation of events
from transaction records, the terms of the position are designated as either verified, disputed,
pending verification, or deemed verified. 66
According to DDR, a transaction record is verified if it (i) is submitted by a Trusted
Source (which is defined as an entity, which has entered into a User agreement, been recognized
as a Trusted Source by DDR and provides the definitive report of a given position), 67 (ii) is a
trade between affiliated parties, (iii) is submitted from an affirmation or confirmation platform,
or (iv) was executed on an electronic trading facility. 68 In addition, the non-reporting User is
responsible for verifying the accuracy of the information that has been submitted by the reporting
party User. DDR represents that a non-reporting User can verify the accuracy of such
information by sending a verification message indicating that it verifies or disputes each position
where it is identified as the counterparty. 69
64

See id.

65

See Exhibit HH.2, Section 3.3.4.

66

See id. A “snapshot” refers to a message that reflects the current state of the trade, which
DDR refers to as the trade’s position.
67

See Exhibit HH.2, Section 12.

68

See Exhibit HH.2. Sections 3.3.4 and 3.3.2.1 and Exhibit GG.3.

69

See id.
17

DDR represents that it would attempt to contact counterparties to a trade reported to DDR
who are not Users (a “Non-User”), where such party’s LEI is provided and there is e-mail
contact information available to DDR in the information or static data maintained by the DTCC
trade repositories 70 about their Users, to notify the non-User that a trade has been reported on
which it might have been named a counterparty and it must on-board to DDR to verify the
accuracy of the information submitted and provide any missing information such as UICs, if
applicable. 71 DDR represents that, if no LEI is provided or if the e-mail information is not
available (for example, under local privacy laws or contractual obligations between the
counterparty and the trade repository with which it has contracted as a User), it would take no
further action. 72 In addition, DDR will not verify the accuracy of the e-mail, nor follow up if an
e-mail bounces back. 73 DDR represents that it will provide the Commission and CFTC with a
monthly status of the outreach to Non-Users. 74
The DDR system will provide trade detail reports that will enable Users to view all
transaction records, which will allow Users to reconcile the transaction records in the SDR
services to their own risk systems. 75 DDR’s policies and procedures provide that, in the event
that both counterparties to a trade agree that data submitted to DDR contains erroneous
information (e.g., through a mutual mistake of fact), such Users may each submit a cancel

70

DTCC operates trade repositories in a number of other jurisdictions. See n.22 supra.

71

See Exhibit HH.2. Sections 3.3.4 and 3.3.2.1 and Exhibit GG.3.

72

See id.

73

See id.

74

See Exhibit HH.2, Section 3.3.4.1.

75

See Exhibit HH.2, Section 10.1.2.

18

record, effectively cancelling the incorrect transaction record. 76 If a trade record has been
submitted by only one counterparty and it is determined by the submitting User that it is
erroneous, the submitting User may submit a cancel record. 77 A User may cancel only its own
submitted record and cannot cancel a record where it is not the submitting party of the record. 78
DDR shall maintain a record of all corrected errors pursuant to applicable regulations and such
records shall be available upon request to the applicable designated regulator. 79
G.

Disputed Trade Data

Under DDR’s policies and procedures, Users are responsible for resolving any disputes
between themselves uncovered during any reconciliation process and, as appropriate, for
submitting correct information. 80 If a User disputes a transaction record alleged to apply to it by
the counterparty, or disputes any of the terms within the alleged transaction, the User shall
register such dispute by submitting a “dispute” message. 81 If such User fails to register such
dispute within 48 hours of the relevant trade detail report being issued, the record will be marked
as “deemed verified” in the DDR system. 82 All reports and trade records provided to regulators
will include the status of these transaction records, including dispute and verification status. 83
Where DDR has received conflicting or inconsistent records from more than one submitter in
76

See Exhibit HH.2, Section 10.1.1.

77

See id.

78

See Exhibit HH.2, Section 10.1.1.

79

See id.

80

See Exhibit HH.2, Section 10.1.2.

81

See id.

82

See id.

83

See id.

19

respect of a particular transaction (such as from a security-based swap execution facility and a
reporting party User), DDR would maintain all such records (unless cancelled or modified in
accordance with the terms of the Rulebook) and make such records available to designated
regulators in accordance with the terms of the User Agreement and applicable law. 84
H.

Application and Dissemination of Condition Flags

DDR represents that, with respect to flags that are applied to publicly disseminated
reports to help prevent a distorted view of the market, DDR has established the following flags
that indicate that additional information is needed to understand the publicly disseminated price:
Inter-affiliate, Nonstandard flag, Off market flag, Pricing context, and Compressed trade. 85
DDR also states that further information regarding the flags is available in its matrices under the
narrative column. 86
I.

Calculation and Maintenance of Positions

DDR’s SDR service would allow DDR to calculate open positions for persons with open
SBS for which DDR maintains records. DDR’s policies and procedures relating to its
calculation of positions are provided in Exhibit DD.
J.

Assignment of Unique Identification Codes

DDR’s policies and procedures state that pursuant to Commission regulation (e.g.,
Regulation SBSR), all registered SDRs must have a systemic means of identifying and tracking
all products and persons involved in a SBS transaction, and that Commission regulation (e.g.,
84

See id.

85

See Exhibit GG.1.

86

See id.; see also Exhibits GG.2, GG.4, and GG.6, which are the matrices that enumerate
the required fields and acceptable values for the submission of trade information into the DDR
system.

20

Regulation SBSR) has prescribed 10 identifiers where a UIC shall be used. 87 Further, DDR
represents that it requires all Users to obtain a valid LEI where it exists, from an internationally
recognized standards-setting system (“IRSS”) that is recognized by the Commission, and that,
where LEIs are populated, DDR performs a digit check on the LEI. 88
DDR has proposed that its Users will be required to provide Legal Entity Identifiers for
the following fields: platform ID, ultimate parent ID, counterparty ID, broker ID, and execution
agent ID. 89 For other UICs (transaction ID, branch ID, trading desk ID, trader ID, and product
ID)as discussed further below, DDR has further proposed that each User will be required to
create the identifiers in prescribed formats, and that it shall be each User’s responsibility to
maintain such identifiers (including, but not limited to, any internal mapping of static data) and
to ensure their continued accuracy. 90
K.

Transaction ID Methodology

DDR represents that it accepts transaction IDs in the UTI field. 91 To validate the
uniqueness of each transaction ID, DDR would apply a methodology, which it refers to as
“Locks,” that prevents the transaction ID from being used for another trade in the same or

87

See Exhibit GG.3; see also Exhibit HH.2, Section 4.1.

88

See Exhibit GG.3. DDR also notes that the Commission has recognized the global Legal
Entity Identifier (“LEI”) as an internationally recognized standards-setting system (“IRSS”).
89

See id. For counterparty IDs for entities that do not have an LEI (such as a natural
person), DDR has proposed alternative methods for providing a counterparty ID.
90

See id.

91

See Exhibit GG.3.

21

another jurisdiction. 92 However, DDR also represents that it is the responsibility of the reporting
party User to create and provide the transaction ID on each transaction. 93
K.

Ultimate Parent and Affiliate Information

DDR represents that it captures the UIC for ultimate parent ID in DDR’s system at the
time a User on-boards to DDR as this is static information that does not vary by trade. DDR
requires that each User provide the LEI of the ultimate parent for each account that is registered
with DDR, with the exception of (1) natural persons who are not required to provide an LEI for
ultimate parent and (2) asset managers and the funds they manage (for asset managers, if the
ultimate parent LEI of the fund is unavailable, DDR will accept the LEI for the fund). 94
M.

Branch, Trading Desk, and Trader ID

DDR represents that each User is required to create, among other identifiers, the branch
ID, trading desk ID, and trader ID. With respect to branch ID, DDR represents that it requires
the User to provide the two digit ISO alpha country code and the two digit subdivision (city)
code where the branch or other unincorporated office is located. DDR represents that if the User
has more than one branch in the same subdivision (city), the branch ID will also include a single
digit following the country and city code referencing the specific branch, such as 1 or 2, for
example. 95 DDR represents that it requires that Users populate the trading desk ID and trader ID
fields using an alphanumeric code with ten characters or less. 96

92

See id.

93

See id.

94

See id.; see also Exhibit HH.2.

95

See Exhibit GG.3.

96

See id.

22

N.

Product ID

DDR represents that each User is required to create the product ID. DDR represents that
the product ID for all asset classes will be the ISDA taxonomy. 97
O.

Missing UIC Information

Rule 906(a) of Regulation SBSR requires a registered SDR to identify any SBS reported
to it for which the registered SDR does not have the counterparty ID and (if applicable) the
broker ID, branch ID, execution agent ID, trading desk ID, and trader ID of each direct
counterparty. Once a day, the registered SDR must send a report to each participant of the
registered SDR (or, if applicable, an execution agent) identifying, for each SBS to which that
participant is a counterparty, the SBS(s) for which the registered SDR lacks the counterparty ID
and (if applicable) broker ID, branch ID, execution agent ID, trading desk ID, or trader ID.
DDR’s policies and procedures provide that to assist each User in identifying and
supplying missing UIC information, the User’s position report, which shall be made available
each day to all Users, can be used to identify each SBS transaction for which DDR lacks any of
the required UICs. 98 DDR further represents that it will utilize a procedure similar to its process
for contacting non-Users to confirm transactions to attempt to obtain missing UIC information. 99
P.

Public Dissemination

According to DDR, its public price dissemination (“PPD”) solution provides Users with a
way to report prices publicly pursuant to the Commission regulations for SBS (e.g., Regulation
SBSR). DDR’s policies and procedures state that reporting sides are provided with a specific
97

See id.

98

See Exhibit HH.2, Section 4.2.3.3.

99

See id.

23

message (the “PPD Message”), with which to provide information required to be disseminated.
The PPD Message is available for dissemination if the fields “Reporting Obligation Party 1” or
“Reporting Obligation Party 2” are populated with “SEC” and the message passes validations. 100
According to DDR, the PPD platform will perform validations on every PPD Message
submitted, and based on the result of that validation, it will issue a response to the relevant
parties indicating a positive or negative validation result (i.e., the “ACK” or “NACK” messages
discussed in Section III.E).
DDR’s policies and procedures state that DDR requires a separate message for public
dissemination and for updating the position record. 101 DDR’s policies and procedures also state
that DDR requires that PPD Messages be sent at the same time as position messages (i.e.,
Primary Economic Terms (“PET”), Confirmation, and/or Snapshot messages). 102 Further,
DDR’s policies and procedures provide that DDR does not determine whether a PPD Message
should be disseminated publicly, and that any such PPD Message received is disseminated
publicly if it passes validations and is directed to the Commission, as discussed above. 103
Further, DDR states that it requires that the reporting party User provide only PPD Messages that
are required to be disseminated under the regulations. 104

100

See Exhibit GG.3.

101

See Exhibit GG.3.

102

See id. DDR’s User Guide (Exhibit GG.3) also provides descriptions of each of these
types of messages. For example, a PET message is used to report the full details of the economic
terms for trade and lifecycle events prior to confirmation.
103

See id. and Exhibit HH.2, Section 5.1.2.

104

See id.

24

DDR represents that the PPD will receive messages with the following potential entries
in the “Action” field for a UTI: New, Modify, and Cancel. 105 A New message will be the first
report for a trade event submission, and only one UTI with an action of New will be allowed. 106
A Modify message will be a valid modification or correction to an existing trade event that has
previously been reported by a submitting party, and the Modify action will be displayed to the
public as a Cancel of the original submission and a Correction representing the Modify
submission. 107 A cancel message will instruct the PPD Platform to cancel the last submission on
a particular UTI, and, if the previous submission has been disseminated, the PPD Platform will
disseminate the cancel with the original dissemination ID link. 108
Q.

Safeguarding Data, Operational Reliability, and Emergency Authority

DDR represents that the DDR system is supported by DTCC and relies on the disaster
recovery program maintained by DTCC. 109 DDR’s policies and procedures provide the key
principles below for business continuity and disaster recovery that DDR follows to enable DDR
to provide timely resumption of critical services should there be any disruption to DDR business:
(i) achieve recovery of critical services within a four-hour window with faster recovery time in
less extreme situations; (ii) disperse staff across geographically diverse operating facilities; (iii)
operate multiple back-up data centers linked by a highly resilient network technology; (iv)
maintain emergency command and out-of-region operating control; (v) utilize new technology
105

See Exhibit GG.3.

106

See id.

107

See id.

108

See id. The dissemination ID is a DDR-generated identifier used to uniquely identify a
message without exposing the UTI and will be used to manage cancellations and corrections.
109

See Exhibit HH.2, Section 8.1.

25

which provides high-volume, high-speed, asynchronous data transfer over distances of 1,000
miles or more; (vi) maintain processes that mitigate marketplace, operational and cyber-attack
risks; (vii) test continuity plan readiness and connectivity on a regular basis, ensuring that Users
and third-party vendors/service providers can connect to DDR’s primary and back-up sites; (viii)
communicate on an emergency basis with the market, Users, and government agency decisionmakers; and (ix) evaluate, test, and utilize best business continuity and resiliency practices. 110
DDR represents that it retains the right to exercise emergency authority in the event of
circumstances determined by DDR to require such response or upon request by the designated
regulators as applicable, and that any exercise of DDR’s emergency authority shall be adequate
to address the nature and scope of any such emergency. 111 DDR further represents that its CEO
shall have the authority to exercise emergency authority, and that in his/her absence, any other
officer of DDR shall have such authority. 112 DDR has stated that circumstances requiring the
invocation of emergency authority include, but are not limited to, occurrences or circumstances:
(a) determined by DDR to constitute an emergency; (b) which threaten the proper functioning of
the DDR system and the SDR services; or (c) which materially and adversely affect the
performance of the DDR system and the SDR services. 113 DDR states that emergencies include,
but are not limited to, natural, man-made and information technology emergencies. 114

110

See id.

111

See Exhibit HH.2, Section 7.3.

112

See id.

113

See id.

114

See id.

26

Pursuant to its policies and procedures, DDR shall notify the designated regulators, as
soon as reasonably practicable, of an invocation of emergency authority or a material system
outage is detected by DDR. 115 Such notification shall be provided in accordance with applicable
regulations and will include the reasons for taking such emergency action, how potential
conflicts of interest were minimized and documentation of the decision-making process. 116
Documentation underlying the emergency shall be made available to the designated regulators
upon request. 117 DDR also represents that it shall issue an “Important Notice” as to all Users as
soon as reasonably practicable in the event such emergency authority is exercised. 118
DDR represents that it shall avoid conflicts of interest in decision-making with respect to
emergency authority taken. 119 If a potential conflict of interest arises, the CCO shall be notified
and consulted for the purpose of resolving the potential conflict. 120
DDR represents that any emergency actions taken by DDR may be terminated by the
CEO and in his/her absence, any other officer of DDR, and that any such termination of an
emergency action will be followed by the issuance of an Important Notice as soon as reasonably
practicable. 121
R.

Data Confidentiality; Sensitive Information and Security

115

See Exhibit HH.2, Section 7.3.

116

See id.

117

See id.

118

See id. An “Important Notice” is a formal notice sent to Users describing significant
changes to DDR Rules, DDR Systems or other processes. See id., Section 12.
119

See Exhibit HH.2, Section 7.3.

120

See id.

121

See id.

27

DDR represents that DTCC has established a Technology Risk Management Team,
whose role is to manage information security risk and ensure the availability, integrity, and
confidentiality of the organization’s information assets, but that DDR will be responsible for
monitoring the performance of DTCC with regard to implementation and maintenance of
information security within its infrastructure. 122 DDR further represents that various policies
have been developed to provide the framework for both physical and information security and
are routinely refreshed. The Technology Risk Management Team carries out a series of
processes to endeavor to ensure DDR is protected in a cost-effective and comprehensive manner.
This includes preventative controls such as firewalls, appropriate encryption technology, and
authentication methods. Vulnerability scanning is used to identify high risks to be mitigated and
managed and to measure conformance against the policies and standards. 123
IV.

Solicitation of Comments
Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning

DDR’s Form SDR, including whether DDR has satisfied the requirements for registration as an
SDR. To the extent possible, commenters are requested to provide empirical data and other
factual support for their views. In addition, the Commission seeks comment on the following
issues:
1. Please provide your views as to whether DDR’s application for registration as an SDR
demonstrates that DDR is so organized, and has the capacity, to be able to assure the
prompt, accurate, and reliable performance of its functions as an SDR, comply with any
applicable provisions of the securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder, and
122

See Exhibit HH.2, Section 9.1.

123

See Exhibit HH.2, Section 9.

28

carry out its functions in a manner consistent with the purposes of Section 13(n) of the
Exchange Act and Commission’s SDR rules.
2. Exchange Act Rule 13n-5(b)(1)(iii) requires every SDR to establish, maintain, and
enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to satisfy itself that the
transaction data that has been submitted to the SDR is complete and accurate. Please
provide your views as to whether DDR’s policies and procedures concerning verification
of trade data are sufficiently detailed and reasonably designed to satisfy DDR that the
transaction data that has been submitted to DDR is complete and accurate, as required by
Exchange Act Rule 13n-5(b)(1)(iii).
3. Please provide your views as to whether DDR’s policies and procedures to address
confirmation of data accuracy and completeness for bespoke, bilateral SBS transactions
(i.e., DDR will attempt to contact a non-User counterparty to verify the accuracy of a
trade if DDR has been provided with the non-User counterparty’s LEI and can access email contact information for the non-User counterparty in the static data maintained by
the DTCC trade repositories about their Users) are appropriate and reasonably designed
to meet its obligations under Exchange Act Rule 13n-5(b)(1)(iii).
4. Please provide your views as to whether DDR’s policies and procedures are sufficiently
detailed and reasonably designed to ensure that the transaction data and positions that it
maintains are complete and accurate, as required by Exchange Act Rule 13n-5(b)(3).
5. Please provide your views as to whether DDR’s policies and procedures are sufficiently
detailed and reasonably designed to ensure that it has the ability to protect the privacy of
SBS transaction information that it receives, as required by Exchange Act Rule 13n-9.

29

6. Please provide your views as to whether DDR’s policies and procedures are sufficiently
detailed and reasonably designed to ensure that it has the ability to calculate positions, as
required by Exchange Act Rule 13n-5(b)(2).
7. Please provide your views as to whether DDR’s policies and procedures are sufficiently
detailed and reasonably designed to provide a mechanism for Users and their
counterparties to effectively resolve disputes over the accuracy of SBS data that DDR
would maintain, as required by Exchange Act Rule 13n-5(b)(6). Are DDR’s policies and
procedures, including with respect to the specified timeframe, relating to dispute
resolution adequate? Why or why not?
8. Please provide your views as to whether DDR’s policies and procedures are sufficiently
detailed and reasonably designed to ensure that its systems that support or are integrally
related to the performance of its activities provides adequate levels of capacity, integrity,
resiliency, availability, and security, as required by Exchange Act Rule 13n-6.
9. Please provide your views as to whether DDR’s policies and procedures are sufficiently
detailed and reasonably designed for the CCO’s handling, management response,
remediation, retesting, and closing of noncompliance issues, as required by Exchange Act
Rule 13n-11(c)(7).
10. Please provide your views as to whether DDR’s policies or procedures could result in an
unreasonable restraint of trade or impose any material anticompetitive burden on the
trading, clearing, or reporting of transactions.
11. Please provide your views as to whether DDR’s proposed dues, fees, or other charges,
discounts or rebates and the process for setting dues, fees, or other charges, discounts or
rebates are fair and reasonable and not unreasonably discriminatory. Please address

30

whether such proposed dues, fees, other charges, discounts, or rebates are applied
consistently across all similarly situated users of DDR’s services, including, but not
limited to, Users, market infrastructures (including central counterparties), venues from
which data can be submitted to DDR (including exchanges, SBS execution facilities,
electronic trading venues, and matching and confirmation platforms), and third party
service providers.
12. Exchange Act Rule 13n-4(c)(2)(i)—(iii) provides that each SDR (i) shall establish
governance arrangements that are well defined and include a clear organizational
structure with effective internal controls; (ii) must establish governance arrangements that
provide for fair representation of market participants; and (iii) must provide
representatives of market participants, including end-users, with the opportunity to
participate in the process for nominating directors and with the right to petition for
alternative candidates. Please provide your views as to whether DDR’s governance
arrangements are appropriate in light of the requirements of Rule 13n-4(c)(2)(i)—(iii).
13. Exchange Act Rule 13n-4(c)(3)(i)—(ii) provides that each SDR must establish, maintain,
and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to identify and mitigate
potential and existing conflicts of interest in the SDR’s decision-making process on an
ongoing basis, and, with respect to the decision-making process for resolving any
conflicts of interest, each SDR shall require the recusal of any person involved in such
conflict from such decision-making. Please provide your views as to whether DDR’s
policies and procedures are appropriate in light of the requirements of Exchange Act Rule
Exchange Act Rule 13n-4(c)(3)(i)—(ii).

31

14. Rule 903(a) of Regulation SBSR provides, in relevant part, that if no system has been
recognized by the Commission, or a recognized system has not assigned a UIC to a
particular person, unit of a person, or product, the registered SDR shall assign a UIC to
that person, unit of person, or product using its own methodology. Is the methodology
that DDR proposes to use with respect to UICs as described in its application materials
appropriate in light of the requirements under Rule 903(a) of Regulation SBSR? Why or
why not?
15. Rule 907(c) of Regulation SBSR requires a registered SDR to make its Regulation SBSR
policies and procedures publicly available on its website. The Commission has stated
that this public availability requirement will allow all interested parties to understand how
the registered SDR is utilizing the flexibility it has in operating the transaction reporting
and dissemination system, and will provide an opportunity for market participants to
make suggestions to the registered SDR for altering and improving those policies and
procedures, in light of the new products or circumstances, consistent with the principles
set out in Regulation SBSR. 124 DDR has proposed to satisfy its obligation under Rule
907(c) of Regulation SBSR by making the policies and procedures contained in Exhibit
GG (including GG.1 through GG.6) and Exhibit HH.2, and the other application exhibits
referenced therein available on its public website. Is the information that is included in or
referenced in GG (including GG.1 through GG.6) and Exhibit HH.2 appropriate in light
of the requirements of Rule 907(c)?
16. Regulation SBSR imposes duties on various market participants to report SBS transaction
information to a registered SDR. Please provide your views as to whether the DDR
124

See Regulation SBSR Adopting Release, 80 FR at 14648.

32

application and the associated policies and procedures (including technical specifications
for submission of data) provide sufficient information to potential participants of DDR
about how they would discharge these regulatory duties when reporting to DDR. In
particular, please provide your views as to whether DDR’s technical specifications for
submission of data are sufficiently detailed, especially with regard to historical SBSs
(including pre-enactment and transitional SBS) and bespoke SBS. Please describe in
detail what additional information you believe is necessary to allow you to satisfy any
reporting obligation you may incur under Regulation SBSR.
17. Rule 906(a) of Regulation SBSR provides, in relevant part, that a participant of a
registered SDR must provide the missing information with respect to its side of each SBS
referenced in the report to the registered SDR within 24 hours. DDR represents that in
order to be granted access to the DDR system, receive trade information, confirm or
verify transactions, submit messages, or receive reports, a market participant must be onboarded as a DDR User. Please provide your views as to whether this form of access
afforded to the non-reporting-side is fair, open, and not unreasonably discriminatory.
18. Please provide your views as to whether DDR’s policies and procedures relating to Rule
906(a) are sufficiently detailed, appropriate and reasonably designed to ensure data
accuracy and completeness, including with respect to the requirement that once a day, a
registered SDR shall send a report to each participant identifying, for each SBS to which
that participant is a counterparty, the SBS for which the registered SDR lacks
counterparty ID and (if applicable) broker ID, branch ID, execution agent ID, desk ID,
and trader ID.

33

19. Please provide your views as to whether DDR’s policies and procedures relating to Rule
905(b) are sufficiently detailed, appropriate and reasonably designed to ensure data
accuracy and completeness.
20. Please provide your views as to whether DDR has provided sufficient information to
explain the SBS transaction information that it would publicly disseminate to discharge
its duties under Rule 902 of Regulation SBSR. Please describe any additional
information that you feel is necessary. Please offer any suggestions generally for how the
publicly disseminated information could be made more useful.
21. Please provide your views as to whether DDR has provided sufficient information to
explain how Users would be required to report life cycle events under Rule 901(e).
Please describe any additional information that you feel is necessary. In particular,
please indicate whether you believe DDR’s specifications are reasonably designed to
identify the specific data element(s) that change and thus that trigger the report of the life
cycle event.
22. Please provide your views as to whether DDR has provided sufficient information about
how an agent could report SBS transaction information to DDR on behalf of a principal
(i.e., a person who has a duty under Regulation SBSR to report). Please describe any
additional information that is necessary. In particular, please provide your views as to
whether DDR should differentiate between agents who are Users of DDR because they
themselves at times are principals (i.e., they are counterparties to one or more SBSs that
are reported to DDR on a mandatory basis) and agents who are never principals (e.g., a
vendor).

34

23. Please provide your views as to whether DDR’s policies and procedures for the use of
condition flags for transactions having special characteristics under Rule 907(a)(4) of
Regulation SBSR are consistent with the goal of preventing market participants without
knowledge of these characteristics receiving a distorted view of the market.

Are there

additional condition flags that you believe DDR should utilize? If so, please describe
them and why you believe they are appropriate.
24. Exchange Act Rule 13n-10 requires that, before accepting any SBS data from a market
participant or upon a market participant’s request, an SDR shall furnish to the market
participant a disclosure document that contains certain written information, which must
reasonably enable the market participant to identify and evaluate accurately the risks and
costs associated with using the SDR’s services. This written information includes the
SDR’s criteria for providing others with access to its services and data it maintains, its
criteria for those seeking to connect to or link with it, its description of its policies and
procedures regarding its noncommercial and/or commercial use of the SBS transaction
information that it receives from a participant, any registered entity, or any other person,
its description of all the SDR’s services, including any ancillary services, and its
description of its governance arrangements. Based on the materials provided in DDR’s
Form SDR application, please provide your views as to whether the disclosures provided
by the application are sufficiently detailed to meet the objectives of Exchange Act Rule
13n-10.
25. In addition to serving as an SDR for the credit and equity derivatives asset classes, DDR
has applied to serve as an SDR for what it describes as SBS transactions in the interest
rates derivatives asset class. Please provide your views about DDR’s description of this

35

asset class. Please also provide your views as to whether DDR has provided sufficient
information about how a User reports SBS transaction information in this asset class. Is
this information provided sufficient? Why or why not? Please describe any additional
information that you believe should be provided.
26. Exchange Act Rule 13n-4(b)(5) requires that an SDR shall provide direct electronic
access to the Commission (or any designee of the Commission, including another
registered entity). Based on the materials provided in DDR’s Form SDR application,
please provide your views as to whether DDR’s policies and procedures are sufficient to
meet the objectives of Exchange Act Rule 13n-4(b)(5).
27. Rule 901(i) of Regulation SBSR provides that a person must report information about a
pre-enactment SBS or transitional SBS “to the extent that information about such
transaction is available.” Is it clear that DDR’s policies and procedures, including
regarding validations, will allow parties to submit transaction records for pre-enactment
SBS and transitional SBS with data elements missing, pursuant to Rule 901(i)?
28. Please provide your views as to whether DDR’s policies and procedures relating to how it
would conduct validations of transaction records for historic and newly executed SBS are
sufficiently detailed to meet the objectives of Exchange Act Rule 13n-5(b)(1)(iii), and
what further clarifications, if any, you believe would be appropriate.
Comments may be submitted by any of the following methods:
Electronic comments:
•

Use the Commission’s Internet comment form
(http://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed.shtml); or

•

Send an e-mail to rule-comments@sec.gov. Please include File Number SBSDR-2016-

36

02 on the subject line.
Paper comments:
•

Send paper comments to Brent J. Fields, Secretary, Securities and Exchange
Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549-1090. All submissions should
refer to File Number SBSDR-2016-02.
To help the Commission process and review your comments more efficiently, please use

only one method of submission. The Commission will post all comments on the Commission’s
Internet website (http://www.sec.gov/rules/other.shtml).
Copies of the Form SDR, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect
to the Form SDR that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to
the Form SDR between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld
from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for website
viewing and printing in the Commission’s Public Reference Section, 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, DC 20549, on official business days between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m.
All comments received will be posted without change; the Commission does not edit
personal identifying information from submissions. You should submit only information that you
wish to make available publicly. All submissions should refer to File Number SBSDR-2016-02
and should be submitted on or before [INSERT DATE [30] DAYS FROM THE DATE OF
PUBLICATION IN THE FEDERAL REGISTER].

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

37

