UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78958 / September 28, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17587
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b)(4) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
UBS Financial Services Inc.
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against UBS Financial
Services Inc. (“UBS” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting
Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds1 that:

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.
1

Summary
1.
During the period from 2011 through 2014 (“Relevant Period”) UBS failed
reasonably to supervise its personnel with a view toward preventing violations of the federal
securities laws. UBS, through its Capital Markets Structured Solutions unit (the “Structured
Solutions Desk”), failed to develop and implement policies and procedures reasonably designed to
educate and train UBS registered representatives in connection with the Structured Solutions
Desk’s single stock-linked reverse convertible notes (“RCNs”) business so that they could
adequately understand the risks and rewards of the product such that the registered representatives
could form a reasonable basis to make suitable recommendations to certain customers. Without
adequate education and training, certain registered representatives made unsuitable
recommendations in relation to the offer and sale of these RCNs to certain customers in light of
their investment profiles.
2.
During the Relevant Period, the Structured Solutions Desk structured
approximately 2,500 different RCNs based upon 425 different underlying stocks. These products
contained embedded derivatives. Among other criteria, the Structured Solutions Desk selected
underlying single stocks with implied volatility sufficient to support attractive coupons and
downside protection levels and incorporated into the products risk-neutral, model-derived risks of
loss which ranged from a minimum of a 10% risk of a 20% loss to a maximum of a 40% risk of
some loss.
3.
UBS sold approximately $10.7 billion of notional RCNs to approximately 44,000
customer accounts during the Relevant Period. These RCNs were offered for purchase by retail
customers as a way to enhance yield while providing some downside protection. During the
Relevant Period, UBS sold approximately $548 million of notional RCNs (about 5.1% of total
sales) to 8,743 UBS retail customer accounts, many of whom had little or no relevant investing
experience and had identified to UBS modest reported income and net worth, primarily moderate
or conservative investment objectives, and some of whom were retired. Nearly all of these
transactions were recommended transactions by UBS registered representatives.
4.
Because of the Firm’s inadequate education and training, certain UBS registered
representatives did not adequately understand certain aspects of the RCNs, and thus they did not
always form a reasonable basis to determine that the RCNs were suitable for certain customers.
This conduct constituted a course of business that violated Section 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act of
1933 (“Securities Act”).2
5.
UBS’s supervisory policies and procedures thus were not reasonably designed and
implemented to provide effective oversight of the training, education and recommendations of the
registered representatives to prevent and detect violations of the Securities Act. As a result, UBS

2

A violation of Section 17(a)(3) (prohibiting engaging in any course of business that
operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon the purchaser in the offer or sale of
securities) may rest on a finding of simple negligence; scienter is not required. SEC v. Hughes
Capital Corp., 124 F.3d 449, 453-54 (3d Cir. 1997).
2

failed reasonably to supervise its registered representatives within the meaning of Exchange Act
Section 15(b)(4)(E).
Respondent
6.
UBS is a subsidiary of UBS AG that provides wealth management services in the
United States and is registered with the Commission as a broker-dealer and investment adviser.
UBS sold more than $19.6 billion of structured notes in the Relevant Period, the majority of which
were RCNs. UBS is incorporated in Delaware, and has its principal place of business in New
York, New York.
Facts
Design and Sale of the Product
7.
The introduction of a new product for sale by UBS was subject to oversight and
direction by its New Business and Complex Transactions policy and process, which was
implemented by the New Business Control group (“NBC”). The NBC in relevant part approved
the selling of RCNs by the Structured Solutions Desk after assessing both the need for appropriate
registered representative training and educational materials when a new product was being offered,
and the UBS-determined minimum customer eligibility levels.
8.
Although there are several variations or structures, single stock-linked RCNs are a
type of structured product issued by a financial institution as an unsecured debt obligation that is
linked to the performance of an underlying single stock. UBS’s single stock-linked RCNs at issue
involved certain complex structures, including: (1) Trigger Yield Optimization Notes; (2) Trigger
Autocall Optimization Securities; (3) Trigger Phoenix Autocall Optimization Securities; (4) Airbag
Yield Optimization Notes; and (5) Airbag Autocallable Yield Optimization Notes. Each of these
structures is described in more detail in Exhibit A.
9.
Single stock-linked RCNs are structured to pay a higher interest rate than
conventional debt of the same issuer because of the inclusion of the embedded derivative that
provides essentially a synthetic put on the underlying stock. Single stock-linked RCNs also
typically provide some downside protection to investors, as long as the underlying stock does not
close below a specified price or “trigger.”
10.
In exchange for an attractive coupon rate and some downside market protection, the
investor risks not receiving his full principal at maturity, depending on the performance of the
underlying stock. Certain of the single stock-linked RCNs structured by the Structured Solutions
Desk were “autocallable” – meaning the issuer will call the security if the stock is trading at or
above a certain price on specified “observation dates,” which creates additional complexity and
different risk of loss for investors.
11.
A key aspect of the structure of the RCNs is the embedded derivative, which
involves payoff profiles similar to those of complex options. Single stock-linked RCNs are the
economic equivalent of the issuer selling a bond to the RCN purchaser and the RCN purchaser
selling – or being “short” – a put option on the underlying stock to the issuer. These options have
features that make them different from and potentially more complex than commonly traded
3

options. For example, the “kick in” or “knock in barrier” options used as an underlying
component of an RCN require a certain price level – or “barrier” – to be reached as of the option’s
expiry date to be exercisable, an event referred to as “kicking in” or “knocking in.” When the
Structured Solutions Desk solicited competitive bids from issuers for the single stock-linked RCNs
it designed, it described the embedded derivative from what it characterized as “the investor’s
perspective” so that there would be no confusion as to the product that the Structured Solutions
Desk intended to create. For example, for the structures listed below, the Structured Solutions
Desk generally described to potential issuers the embedded options from the investor’s perspective
in the competitive bid request, as follows:
Structure
Trigger Yield Optimization Notes
Trigger Autocall Optimization
Securities
Trigger Phoenix Autocall
Optimization Securities
Airbag Yield Optimization
Securities
Airbag Autocallable Yield
Optimization Notes

Option Legs (from investor’s perspective)
Long par bond
Short 1 European [Kick In or Knock In (“KI”)] put
Long series of 100% strike digital calls
Short 1 100% strike put with European KI barrier
Long series of 100% strike digital calls
Short 1 100% strike put with European KI barrier
Long par bond
Short (1/conversion price) conversion price European puts
Long par bond
Short (1/conversion price) conversion price European puts
Long series of four 100% strike digital calls

12.
A second key aspect of the RCNs is the role of implied volatility in the selection of
the underlying stocks. Implied volatility represents the market’s assessment of the risk and
expected future volatility – or uncertainty regarding the magnitude of changes in the market value
– of a stock and is determined largely by observing the prices of options on that stock in the listed
options markets. Among other criteria, the Structured Solutions Desk selected stocks that had
implied volatility sufficient to generate attractive coupons and downside market protection levels.
For example, approximately 75% of the stocks the Structured Solutions Desk chose as RCN
underlying securities during the Relevant Period were constituents of the S&P 500 or were large
capitalization foreign issuers similar to the constituents of the S&P 500 based on market
capitalization. When that 75% of underlying stocks is compared to the constituents of the S&P
500, about 83% of the stocks chosen by the Structured Solutions Desk were in the top half of the
distribution of implied volatilities within the S&P 500 at the time that those RCNs were issued, and
about 45% were in the top 20% of implied volatilities.
13.
A third key aspect of RCNs structured by the Structured Solutions Desk is the
potential for breach, meaning the risk that the underlying stock would close below the specified
downside market protection level or barrier, causing investor losses. The Structured Solutions
Desk required that each RCN have a risk-neutral, model-derived determination of at least a 10%
risk of at least a 20% loss, and no more than a 40% risk of some loss.
14.
The NBC and Structured Solutions Desk authorized the selling of RCNs in
increments of $1000 for all investors. During the Relevant Period, UBS sold approximately $548
million of notional RCNs (about 5.1% of total sales) to 8,743 UBS retail customer accounts, many
of whom had little or no relevant investing experience and had identified to UBS modest reported
4

income and net worth, primarily moderate or conservative investment objectives, and some were
retired.
Inadequate Education and Training
15.
The NBC and Structured Solutions Desk developed the RCN platform as a major
business initiative and had an interest in widely distributing the product. UBS’s supervisory
policies relating to RCNs delegated to the NBC and Structured Solutions Desk, with help from
other departments as appropriate, responsibility for developing substantive training and educational
materials with respect to the offering of RCNs, and determining the applicable eligibility criteria
for the product. The NBC and Structured Solutions Desk, however, failed adequately to educate
and train UBS registered representatives who sold RCNs.
16.
UBS’s internal education and training primarily focused on describing the payouts
for the various products, and while it included discussion of other terms of the RCNs, it did not
provide adequate training on certain important aspects of RCNs. For example, although the
Structured Solutions Desk provided potential issuers with information regarding the RCN option
features from the “investor’s perspective,” internal educational materials lacked similar
information. In addition, UBS’s internal educational materials did not describe sufficiently the role
of implied volatility and the potential for breach in the selection of the equity securities underlying
the RCNs. As a result, UBS registered representatives were not adequately educated and trained to
understand adequately the risk and characteristics of the product, including relevant volatility
concepts and the role that volatility played in the selection of the equity securities underlying the
RCNs.
Unsuitable Recommendations to Certain Customers
17.
This inadequate training and education led to the unsuitable recommendations of
RCNs to certain of the customers who had identified to UBS modest reported income and net
worth, primarily moderate or conservative investment objectives, and some of whom were retired.
A customer who purchased RCNs from UBS reasonably expected his or her registered
representative to sufficiently understand RCNs before recommending them. Because the policies
and procedures were not reasonably designed to provide effective oversight of NBC’s and
Structured Solutions Desk’s education and training and the registered representatives’ obligation to
sufficiently understand RCNs before recommending them, certain registered representatives did
not sufficiently understand particular aspects of the RCNs before recommending the product to
certain of these customers.
UBS’s Failure to Supervise
18.
UBS failed to ensure that its registered representatives were adequately educated
and trained in connection with the RCNs such that the registered representatives could adequately
understand the risks and rewards of the RCNs to be able to form a reasonable basis that
recommended transactions in RCNs were suitable for certain customers. UBS’s supervisory
policies and procedures thus were not reasonably designed and implemented to provide effective
oversight of the training, education and recommendations of the registered representatives to
prevent and detect the violations of the Securities Act outlined above.
5

Conclusions
19.
Under Section 15(b)(4)(E) of the Exchange Act, broker-dealers are responsible for
supervising, with a view to preventing and detecting violations of the federal securities laws,
persons subject to their supervision. UBS was responsible for supervising its NBC and Structured
Solutions Desk in the development of its training and education of UBS’s registered
representatives as well as its registered representatives in making suitable recommendations to
customers.
20.
UBS failed reasonably to fulfill such supervisory responsibilities within the
meaning of Section 15(b)(4)(E) of the Exchange Act because UBS failed to establish reasonable
policies and procedures, and a system for applying such procedures, that would reasonably be
expected to prevent and detect the violations of Section 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act described
above.
UBS’s Remedial Efforts
In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts promptly
undertaken by UBS and cooperation afforded the Commission staff.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent UBS’s Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Section 15(b)(4) of the Exchange Act, it is hereby ORDERED
that:
A.

Respondent is hereby censured.

B.
UBS shall, within twenty (20) days of the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement of
$8,227,566 and prejudgment interest of $798,316 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for
transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section
21F(g)(3). If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of
Practice 600. Payment must be made in one of the following ways:
(1)

Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which
will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

(2)

Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
6

Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying UBS
as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the
cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Reid A. Muoio, Deputy Chief, Complex
Financial Instruments Unit, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F
St., NE, Washington, DC 20549.
C.
UBS shall, within twenty (20) days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money
penalty in the amount of $6,000,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the
general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If timely
payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717. Payment must
be made in one of the following ways:
(1)

Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which
will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

(2)

Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying UBS
as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the
cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Reid A. Muoio, Deputy Chief, Complex
Financial Instruments Unit, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F
St., NE, Washington, DC 20549.
D.
Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor
Action, it shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor shall it benefit by, offset or reduction of any
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil
penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a
Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that it shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting
the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the
7

Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall not be deemed
an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty
imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action" means a
private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based
on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this
proceeding.

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

8

Exhibit A
Structure
Trigger
Yield
Optimization
Notes

Trigger
Autocallable
Optimization
Securities

Trigger
Phoenix
Autocall
Optimization
Securities

Airbag Yield
Optimization
Securities

Airbag
Autocallable
Yield
Optimization
Notes

Description of Structure
Trigger Yield Optimization Notes were described as “enhanced income strategies for investors who are
comfortable accepting downside equity market risk.”
• Each note was to be issued for a price equal to the closing price of the underlying asset on the trade date (the
initial price).
• A monthly coupon was to be paid regardless of the performance of the underlying asset.
• At maturity, the issuer would either repay the principal amount in cash or, if the underlying asset closed below
the specified trigger price on the final valuation date, the issuer would deliver one share of the underlying asset per
note, which was expected to be worth substantially less than the principal amount and may have no value.
Trigger Autocallable Optimization Securities were described as “tactical investments designed to take advantage of
flat or rising markets.”
• On a monthly basis, the closing price of the underlying asset was to be observed and if it was greater than or
equal to the underlying asset’s closing price on the trade date, the issuer would automatically call the securities and
pay a call price equal to the principal amount plus the applicable call return. The call return increased the longer
the securities were outstanding.
• If the securities were not called, the issuer would either repay the full principal amount at maturity or, if the
closing price of the underlying asset on the final valuation date was below the trigger price, the issuer would repay
less than the full principal amount at maturity, if anything, resulting in a loss to investors that was proportionate to
the decline in the underlying asset price over the term of the securities.
Trigger Phoenix Autocallable Optimization Securities were described as “enhanced income strategies for investors
who believe the value of the underlying asset will not decline significantly.”
• On a quarterly basis, the closing price of the underlying asset was to be observed and if it was greater than or
equal to the coupon barrier, the issuer would pay the coupon for that quarter. Otherwise, no coupon was to be paid
for that quarter. In addition, if the closing price of the underlying asset was greater than or equal to the underlying
asset’s closing price on the trade date, the issuer would also automatically call the securities and repay the
principal amount.
• If the securities were not called, the issuer would either repay the full principal amount at maturity plus the
applicable coupon for the period or, if the underlying asset closed below the trigger price on the final valuation
date, the issuer would repay less than the full principal amount at maturity, if anything, resulting in a loss to
investors that was proportionate to the decline in the underlying asset price over the term of the securities.
Airbag Yield Optimization Notes were described as “enhanced income strategies for investors who are
comfortable accepting downside equity market risk.”
• The issuer would pay a monthly coupon regardless of the performance of the underlying asset.
• At maturity, the issuer would either repay the principal amount in cash or, if the underlying asset closed below
the specified conversion price on the final valuation date, the issuer would deliver a number of shares of the
underlying asset per note equal to the principal amount per note divided by the conversion price, which was
expected to be worth less than the principal amount and may have no value.
Airbag Autocallable Yield Optimization Notes were described as “enhanced income strategies for investors who
are comfortable accepting downside equity market risk.”
• The issuer would pay a monthly coupon regardless of the performance of the underlying asset.
• On a quarterly basis, the closing price of the underlying asset would be observed and if it was greater than or
equal to the underlying asset's closing price on the trade date, the issuer would automatically call the securities and
repay the principal amount plus the applicable monthly coupon. No further coupon payments would be made.
• If the securities were not called, the issuer either would repay the principal amount at maturity in cash or, if the
underlying asset closed below the specified conversion price on the final valuation date, the issuer would deliver a
number of shares of the underlying asset per note equal to the principal amount per note divided by the conversion
price, which was expected to be worth less than the principal amount and may not have any value.

9

