SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
[Release No. 34-78041]
June 13, 2016
Order Granting Limited and Conditional Exemption Under Section 36(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 from Compliance with Interactive Data File Exhibit Requirement
in Forms 6-K, 8-K, 10-Q, 10-K, 20-F and 40-F to Facilitate Inline Filing of Tagged
Financial Data
I.

Introduction
Operating companies are required to provide their financial statements

accompanying their periodic and current reports in machine-readable format using
eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL). Companies currently provide this
XBRL data as an exhibit to their filings. Since these requirements were first adopted,
technology has evolved and now would allow filers to embed XBRL data directly into a
HyperText Markup Language (HTML) document through a format known as Inline
XBRL. The technology is freely licensed and made available by XBRL International, 1
and it is currently used by companies in other jurisdictions for a variety of regulatory
purposes. 2
We believe that filing financial statements with Inline XBRL has the potential to
provide a number of benefits to filers and users of the information. For example, Inline
XBRL could decrease filing preparation costs, improve the quality of structured data, and
1

See http://specifications.xbrl.org/spec-group-index-inline-xbrl.html.

2

For example, in the United Kingdom, the “accounts and computations” part of a “Company Tax
Return” must be submitted to HM Revenue and Customs using Inline XBRL. See
http://www.hmrc.gov.uk/ct/ct-online/taxonomy.htm. Other examples include Australia
(http://asic.gov.au/about-asic/media-centre/find-a-media-release/2015-releases/15-104mr-asicintroduces-format-for-improved-communication-of-financial-information/); Japan
(https://www.xbrl.org/the-standard/why/who-else-uses-xbrl/); Denmark (https://www.xbrl.org/thestandard/why/who-else-uses-xbrl/); and Ireland
(http://www.revenue.ie/en/online/ros/ixbrl/index.html). We note that the specific disclosure
regimes in these countries differ from that in the U.S.

by improving data quality, increase the use of XBRL data by investors and other market
participants. Consequently, as a means of further assessing the usefulness of Inline
XBRL, we are exercising our authority under Section 36(a) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) to permit, but not require, operating companies to use Inline
XBRL in their periodic and current reports under the Exchange Act through March 2020.
Additionally, permitting companies to use Inline XBRL on a voluntary, time-limited
basis could facilitate the development of Inline XBRL preparation and analysis tools,
provide investors and companies with the opportunity to evaluate its usefulness, and help
inform any future Commission rulemaking in this area.
II.

Discussion
Information is “structured” when it is made machine-readable by labeling (or

“tagging”) the information using a markup language, such as XBRL, that can be
processed by software for analysis. Structured information can be stored, shared, and
presented in different systems or platforms. Companies currently use information
systems that accommodate and rely upon structured information.
Standardized markup languages, such as XBRL, use sets of tags, referred to as
taxonomies. Taxonomies provide common definitions that represent agreed-upon
information about reporting standards, such as U.S. GAAP for accounting-based
disclosures. The resulting standardization of financial reporting allows for aggregation,
comparison, and large-scale statistical analysis of reported financial information through
significantly more automated means than is possible with other formats, such as HTML.

2

Structured financial statement information is currently required to be submitted in
an “Interactive Data File” exhibit to certain forms. 3 These forms are prepared in either
HTML or (less commonly) American Standard Code for Information Interchange
(ASCII) electronic formats. The form as prepared in these formats is called the “Related
Official Filing.” The Interactive Data File currently consists of an “instance document”
and other documents as described in the EDGAR Filer Manual. For the purposes of this
order, we use “instance document” to describe that part of the Interactive Data File that
contains the XBRL tags for the information contained in the corresponding data in the
Related Official Filing to satisfy the content and format requirements in 17 CFR
232.405. The other documents in the Interactive Data File contain contextual
information about the XBRL tags.
Companies often create XBRL exhibits by first preparing their financial
statements in a word processing application and then converting it to another format,
such as HTML. Filers then create an XBRL exhibit by copying the financial statement
information and tagging it in XBRL. In this way, preparers essentially tag a copy of the
data contained in their HTML filings in a separate document, which requires them to
expend resources to create and tag a copy of the data and verify the consistency of
tagged data across documents.
Errors sometimes appear in financial statement information submitted in XBRL
that affect the quality of the data and its potential use by the public and the Commission.
For example, Commission staff has identified several recurring issues with XBRL
submissions, including errors related to the characterization of a number as negative
3

See 17 C.F.R. 232.405; see also 17 C.F.R. 229.601(b)(101).

3

when it is positive, incorrect scaling of a number (e.g., in billions rather than in millions),
unnecessary custom tags (such as to achieve a particular presentation), incomplete
tagging (e.g., a failure to tag numbers in parentheses), and missing calculations that show
relationships between data (e.g., how adding cost of revenue to gross profit equals
revenue and subtracting cost of revenue from revenue equals gross profit). 4 While these
data quality issues may have multiple potential causes, we believe that some of these
errors may result from the submission of XBRL tagged information as an exhibit separate
from the Related Official Filing.
Embedding XBRL data in an HTML document (which we refer to together as the
“Inline XBRL document”) rather than tagging data in a separate instance document may
increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the filing preparation and review process and,
by saving time and effort spent on the these processes, may, over time, reduce the cost of
compliance with XBRL requirements. 5 In particular, Inline XBRL makes it possible for
preparers to view XBRL meta data 6 within the HTML document. By facilitating the
review of XBRL data, we believe that Inline XBRL could decrease the overall time
required to comply with the XBRL data filing requirement and may better equip
preparers to detect and correct XBRL data errors.
4

See, e.g., Staff Observations of Custom Tag Rates (July 7, 2014), available at
http://www.sec.gov/dera/reportspubs/assessment-custom-tag-rates-xbrl.html; Staff Observations
from the Review of Interactive Data Financial Statements (December 13, 2011), available at
http://www.sec.gov/spotlight/xbrl/staff-review-observations-121311.shtml.

5

Embedding XBRL data in the HTML filing could create some confusion about the operation of
current accuracy requirements, such as in Rule 405(c)(1). That rule requires “[e]ach data element .
. . contained in the Interactive Data File [to reflect] the same information in the corresponding data
in the Related Official Filing.” Although the Inline XBRL document will contain XBRL data that
is currently presented in the Interactive Data File, that data must still accurately reflect the
corresponding information in the HTML format portion of the filing. See condition (c) below.

6

Such meta data include, for example, definitions, reporting period information, data type, and
related references.

4

Permitting filing in Inline XBRL is intended to improve XBRL data quality. In
particular, the elimination of a separate instance document should reduce the incidence of
re-keying errors. Additionally, Inline XBRL might eliminate unnecessary or
inappropriate custom tags intended to make XBRL data look similar to an HTML
document when “rendered” by software into a human-readable presentation. With Inline
XBRL, companies would have less of an incentive to create custom tags solely to mimic
the appearance of an HTML filing. To the extent that permitting filing using Inline
XBRL might improve data quality, it may contribute to wider use of XBRL data by
market participants and may enhance the benefits that are associated with XBRL more
generally.
In light of the potential benefits from using Inline XBRL, we are initiating a
voluntary, time-limited program to assess the usefulness of this new filing format. This
voluntary program also may facilitate the development of technological tools to support
the potential further use of Inline XBRL in the future.
We note that, with the acceptance of Inline XBRL filings under this program,
XBRL data users, such as investors, analysts, filers, and data aggregators, may need to
modify their software or algorithms to be able to extract the XBRL data. We believe,
however, that such adjustments will be minimal because the voluntary Inline XBRL
program will not affect the taxonomy or the scope of the information required to be
tagged. In addition, the Commission has incorporated tools into the EDGAR system that
will enable users to view information about the reported XBRL data contained in
embedded tags on the Commission’s website, using any recent standard Internet browser,
without the need to access a separate document. With this feature, when a user views a

5

filing submitted with Inline XBRL on EDGAR, the user will be able to see tags and the
related meta data while viewing the HTML filing. Software enabling this feature will
also be made freely available to the public in an effort to facilitate the creation of cost
effective Inline XBRL viewers and analytical products. We also plan to make freely
available software for Inline XBRL extraction, which may further mitigate potential
effects on XBRL data users. Additionally, the EDGAR system will, for the duration of
the voluntary program, extract and make available the XBRL tags from an Inline XBRL
document as a separate file, enabling current software to continue automated processing
of XBRL data with minimal changes to existing processes.
We also note that permitting filing using Inline XBRL may result in changes that
affect those filers choosing to use Inline XBRL. Currently, when there is a major
technical error with XBRL data submitted in an exhibit, the EDGAR validation system
causes the exhibit to be removed from the submission, but the submission as a whole is
not suspended. With Inline XBRL, the EDGAR validation system will suspend an Inline
XBRL filing that contains a major technical error in embedded XBRL data, which would
require the filing to be revised before it could be accepted by EDGAR. Based on staff
observations, very few XBRL exhibits are suspended, in part, because companies and
preparers routinely use tools the Commission makes available to submit test filings to
help identify and correct technical errors prior to EDGAR filing. Similar tools to submit
test filings will be available to those filers choosing to file in Inline XBRL. Because we
expect that Inline XBRL filers would utilize available tools to submit test filings to
identify and correct any technical errors prior to EDGAR filing, we believe that such
suspensions should be similarly rare for Inline XBRL filers.

6

III.

Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, we find it is appropriate in the public interest and

consistent with the protection of investors to grant companies that choose to use Inline
XBRL when filing financial statements in their Exchange Act periodic and current
reports a time-limited and conditional exemption from certain requirements of the
Interactive Data File exhibit.
Accordingly, it is hereby ordered pursuant to Section 36(a) of the Exchange Act
that any company that complies with each of the conditions below is exempt from the
requirement to submit an instance document as described in this order as part of its
Interactive Data File exhibit with Forms 6-K, 8-K, 10-Q, 10-K, 20-F and 40-F for reports
due before March 30, 2020.
Conditions
The company must
(a) file an Inline XBRL document as prescribed in the EDGAR Filer Manual;
(b) file the Interactive Data File as prescribed in the EDGAR Filer Manual for
Inline XBRL filers as an exhibit to the Inline XBRL document;
(c) use XBRL tags within the Inline XBRL document that reflect the same
information in the corresponding data as the HTML format part of the official
filing;
(d) state in the exhibit index item referencing the Interactive Data File that the
instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its
XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document;
(e) not file in plain text ASCII; and

7

(f) not rely on the hardship exemptions in Rules 201 and 202 of Regulation S-T.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

8

