UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77566/ April 8, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4364 / April 8, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17205
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
AND SECTION 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
JABARI W. RAGAS,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Section 203(f) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Jabari W. Ragas (“Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits to the Commission’s
jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings and consents to the entry of this
Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 and Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and
Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Ragas was a licensed broker and investment adviser in New Orleans,
Louisiana, and from 2000 until November 21, 2008, was a registered representative of, and
a person associated with, a broker-dealer and investment adviser registered with the
Commission. In August 2010, Ragas was barred from association with a broker or dealer by
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Ragas is currently in the custody of the
Federal Bureau of Prisons.
2.
By a Superseding Information filed on January 30, 2014, Ragas was
charged with one count of money laundering and one count of making and subscribing a
false federal income tax return. The superseding information alleged that, from 2006 to
2009, while acting as his client’s investment adviser, Ragas defrauded his client by
misappropriating money from the client’s retirement account, by transferring funds from
his client’s retirement account by wire to a personal account he controlled, and then
thereafter transferring funds by wire from that personal account to another personal bank
account Ragas controlled. The information also charged that on or about October 12,
2008, Ragas made and subscribed a false federal income tax return for the year 2007.
3.
On January 30, 2014, Ragas entered a plea agreement in which he pled
guilty to both counts of the superseding information. Thereafter, on October 2, 2014,
Ragas was adjudged guilty of money laundering in violation of 18 United States Code §
1957, and making and subscribing a false federal income tax return in violation of 26
United States Code § 7206(1), before the United States District Court for the Eastern
District of Louisiana, in United States v. Jabari Ragas, Case No. 2:13-cr-00285. Ragas
was sentenced on that date to a prison term of 42 months, followed by three years of
supervised release, and was ordered to make restitution in the amount of $1,918,693.01.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act
and Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act that Respondent be and hereby is barred from association
with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, or transfer agent; and
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act that Respondent be and hereby is
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter,
finder, consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer
for purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce
the purchase or sale of any penny stock.

2

Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

