UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 79102 / October 14, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4551 / October 14, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17626
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
AND SECTION 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
KEITH MICHAEL ROGERS,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Section 203(f) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Keith Michael Rogers (“Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s
jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the findings contained in
paragraphs III.B. and III.C., below, and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting
Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and
Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
A.
Rogers, was a registered representative and associated with an investment adviser
for a Commission-registered broker-dealer and investment adviser from at least January 2006
through January 2013. He was a representative for a Commission-registered investment adviser
from February 2013 through May 2014. Rogers, 42 years old, is currently incarcerated at the
Hamilton Community Work Release facility in Hamilton, Alabama.
B.
In July 2014, the Alabama Securities Commission issued an administrative ceaseand-desist order against Rogers. The order, which became final on August 25, 2014, concluded
that between 2009 and 2014 Rogers offered and/or sold unregistered securities in violation of the
Alabama Securities Act and also conducted unauthorized fund transfers and converted client funds
for his personal use. The order required Rogers to cease and desist from further offers or sales of
any security into, within or from the state of Alabama, and also barred Rogers from participation in
any securities related industry in the state of Alabama. (In the Matter of Keith Michael Rogers,
R&P Development, LLC, Alabama Securities Commission Administrative Order No.CD-20140016.)
C.
On March 4, 2016, Rogers entered a guilty plea in the Circuit Court of Madison
County, Alabama to one count of fraud in the sale of securities in violation of Code of Alabama
Section 8-6-17(a)(1) (State of Alabama v. Keith Michael Rogers, Crim. Case No. CC-2015003019). On May 18, 2016, Rogers was sentenced to a prison term of ten years, and ordered to
serve three years with the balance suspended for five years of probation. Rogers was also
ordered to make restitution in the amount of $1,716,723.86.
D.
The count of the criminal indictment to which Rogers pled guilty alleged, inter
alia, that Rogers misappropriated in excess of $2.5 million from certain investors in a private
entity Rogers created, and misrepresented to investors that their funds would be placed into
legitimate investment programs and would be used to purchase securities positions such as
stocks and bonds.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Rogers’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act,
and Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act, that Respondent Rogers be, and hereby is barred from
association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal
advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating organization; and
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent Rogers be, and hereby is
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder,
2

consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for
purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the
purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

