UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78355 / July 19, 2016
WHISTLEBLOWER AWARD PROCEEDING
File No. 2016-14
In the Matter of the Claims for Award
in connection with
Redacted
Redacted

Notice of Covered Action

Redacted

ORDER DETERMINING WHISTLEBLOWER AWARD CLAIMS
The Commission received sixteen claims for award in connection with Notice of Covered
Action Redacted (“Covered Action”).1 On July 13, 2015, the Claims Review Staff (“CRS”)
issued a Preliminary Determination recommending that all sixteen award claims be denied
because none of the Claimants’ information led to the successful enforcement of the Covered
Action. See Section 21F(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”);
Rules 21F-3(a)(3) and 21F-4(c).2 Three of the sixteen claimants,
Claimant #13
1

The following sixteen individuals submitted claims for award in the Covered Action: Claimants
Claimants
Claimants

(collectively, “Claimants”).

Claimants
2

As relevant here, original information leads to the success of a covered action if it: (1) causes the
Commission to (i) commence an examination, (ii) open or reopen an investigation, or (iii) inquire into
different conduct as part of a current Commission examination or investigation, and the Commission
brings a successful judicial or administrative action based in whole or in part on conduct that was the
subject of the original information, under Rule 21F-4(c)(1) of the Exchange Act; or (2) the information
significantly contributes to the success of a Commission judicial or administrative enforcement action
under Rule 21F-4(c)(2) of the Exchange Act.

1

Claimant #11
(“Claimant #13”),
(“Claimant #11”), and Claimant #9 (“Claimant #9”),
submitted requests for reconsideration of the preliminary denial of their claims.3

For the reasons stated below, the claims submitted by Claimants #13, #11, and #9 are
denied.
I.

Background

The Covered Action arose out of two separate investigations, one by Enforcement staff in
the Commission’s Home Office and the other by Enforcement staff in the Denver Regional
Office (“DRO”), into
Redacted
Home Office and
Redacted
DRO staff opened their investigations in
in response to media reports and
Redacted
inquiries made by investigative staff, and not in response to any tip or complaint submitted by
any of the Claimants.
In

Redacted

, DRO staff became aware of and began to investigate

Redacted

Redacted
Redacted
Redacted

Information related to
Redacted
Redacted
Redacted had been reported in the news media
These media reports led DRO staff to shift the focus of its investigation entirely to
Redacted
Redacted

Redacted

On

Redacted

the two investigations culminated in

Redacted

Redacted
Redacted
Redacted
Redacted

3

The other thirteen claimants failed to submit a timely response contesting the Preliminary
Determination. Accordingly, pursuant to Rule 21F-10(f), 17 C.F.R. § 240.21F-10(f), the Preliminary
Determination as to
Claimants
Claimants

denying their claims for award has become the Final

Claimants

Order of the Commission.
4

Redacted

2

II.

Claimant #13’s Claim Is Denied

After careful consideration of the administrative record, including Claimant #13’s written
response, we deny Claimant #13’s award application. We find that Claimant #13 is not entitled
to an award because the record conclusively demonstrates that Claimant #13’s information did
not lead to successful enforcement of the Covered Action. First, the Home Office investigative
staff never received any information from, and had no communication with, Claimant #13, and
Claimant #13’s Response fails to show otherwise. Second, although DRO staff received and
reviewed Claimant #13’s information, it was not used in and did not contribute to the
investigation. The DRO’s investigation was opened before DRO staff received Claimant #13’s
information. Further, DRO staff began to inquire into
Redacted
Redacted
because of a
reported in the media, not because of
Claimant #13’s information. Because Claimant #13’s information focused on Redacted
while the DRO’s investigation shifted to focus on
Redacted
Redacted
the DRO staff did not use Claimant #13’s information in any way in their
Redacted
investigation. Finally, the charges brought by the Commission arising from the DRO’s
investigation related to
Redacted
Redacted

Although in the Response Claimant #13 identifies a number of interactions and
Redacted
communications
concerning Claimant #13’s
information, Claimant #13 fails to identify any communications with Enforcement staff
responsible for the underlying investigations that led to the Covered Action. Whether
Claimant #13’s information
Redacted
Redacted has no bearing on whether Claimant #13’s information led to the success of this
particular Covered Action.
Finally, Claimant #13 argues that Claimant #13 should have had the opportunity to see
and respond to the record, which included declarations by the relevant investigative staff, before
the CRS issued its preliminary denial of Claimant #13’s claim. Claimant #13 had the
opportunity to submit whatever information or supporting documentation Claimant #13 thought
relevant to the award determination when Claimant #13 submitted the application for award on
Form WB-APP. Indeed, Claimant #13’s award application was voluminous and attached several
exhibits. Furthermore, Claimant #13 received a copy of all the materials that provided the basis
for the CRS’s preliminary denial of Claimant #13’s claim, and had the opportunity to submit
whatever factual or legal arguments Claimant #13 believed relevant in connection with the
request for reconsideration. But nothing in Claimant #13’s Response shows that Claimant #13’s
information caused staff to open the investigations, caused staff to inquire into different conduct,
or significantly contributed to the success of the Covered Action.
3

Because Claimant #13’s information did not lead to the successful enforcement of the
Covered Action, Claimant #13’s claim should be, and hereby is, denied.
III.

Claimant #11’s Claim Is Denied

After careful consideration of the administrative record, including Claimant #11’s written
response, we deny Claimant #11’s award application. We find that Claimant #11 is not entitled
to an award because the record conclusively demonstrates that Claimant #11’s information did
not lead to successful enforcement of the Covered Action.
Claimant #11 bases the claim for award on a tip Claimant #11 submitted to the
Commission in Redacted Claimant #11’s tip was forwarded to Enforcement staff in the Los
Angeles Regional Office (“LARO”) in connection with an investigation that was separate from
and unrelated to the investigations that led to the Covered Action. LARO Enforcement staff
closed Claimant #11’s tip with a disposition of no further action (or “NFA”),5 and the tip was not
forwarded to Enforcement staff responsible for the investigations that led to the Covered Action.
Both Home Office and DRO Enforcement staff confirmed that they do not know Claimant #11,
had no communications with Claimant #11, and did not receive any information from Claimant
#11, before or during the course of their investigations.
In the Response, Claimant #11 fails to show how the information provided by
Claimant #11 led to the successful enforcement of the Covered Action. Rather, Claimant #11
argues that the record is insufficient because it does not include materials from the underlying
investigations and that additional declarations from individuals both inside and outside of the
Commission are necessary to show whether Claimant #11’s information was used in the Covered
Action.
Claimant #11’s argument that Claimant #11 should have received Enforcement staff’s
investigative files, in connection with Claimant #11’s request for the record, is without merit.
Exchange Act Rule 21F-12(a) specifically identifies those materials that may comprise the
record upon which the CRS’s preliminary determination is based; they do not include
Enforcement staff’s investigative files. Rule 21F-12(b) specifically states that claimants are not
entitled to obtain from the Commission any materials other than those listed in Rule 21F-12(a).
Furthermore, based on our careful review of the record, we disagree with Claimant #11’s
argument that additional declarations are necessary to show that Claimant #11’s information did
5

When a tip is NFA’d by Enforcement investigative staff, this means both that the tip was deemed
to not be useful to the investigation and that Enforcement staff will not take any additional investigative
steps in connection with the tip unless subsequent information leads to a reopening or reexamination of
that tip.

4

not lead to successful enforcement. The administrative record demonstrates that Claimant #11’s
tip was not referred to either of the teams conducting the investigations that led to the Covered
Action. The record, which includes declarations from the Enforcement staff responsible for the
underlying investigations, also demonstrates that the investigative teams never received any
information from, or had any communications with, Claimant #11. We believe that the current
record therefore provides us with a sufficient basis to determine that Claimant #11’s information
did not lead to the success of the Covered Action.6
Finally, Claimant #11’s Response appears to concede that Claimant #11’s information
did not relate specifically to the charges brought in the Covered Action, instead arguing that
Claimant #11’s information globally related to
Redacted
The whistleblower rules require, however,
Redacted
that a claimant’s information lead to the successful enforcement of the particular Covered
does
Action. That Claimant #11’s information purportedly helped advance
Redacted
not mean that Claimant #11’s information had any impact on the Covered Action. The record
conclusively demonstrates that Claimant #11’s information was not used in connection with the
underlying investigations, as neither the Home Office nor the DRO investigative staff received
any information from Claimant #11 before or during the course of their investigations. As such,
Claimant #11’s claim for award should be, and hereby is, denied.
IV.

Claimant #9’s Claim Is Denied

After careful consideration of the administrative record, including Claimant #9’s written
response, we deny Claimant #9’s award application. We find that Claimant #9 is not entitled to
an award because the record conclusively demonstrates that Claimant #9’s information did not
lead to successful enforcement of the Covered Action.
Claimant #9 submitted information to the Commission in
and again in
Redacted
Redacted
Redacted alleging
Redacted
Claimant #9’s information was forwarded to Enforcement staff in the Atlanta
Regional Office (“ARO”) in connection with an investigation that was separate from and
unrelated to the Home Office’s and DRO’s investigations, and the tip was not forwarded to
Enforcement staff responsible for the investigations that led to the Covered Action. Both Home
Office and DRO staff responsible for the underlying investigations that led to the Covered
Action confirmed that they do not know Claimant #9, had no communications with Claimant #9,
and received no information from Claimant #9 before or during the course of their investigations.
6

We note that obtaining declarations from other individuals who had no direct responsibility for
the investigations leading to the Covered Action, or for the prosecution of the Covered Action, would be a
futile effort, as such individuals would not be in a position to state whether Claimant #11’s information
was used in the investigations, let alone whether the information “led to” the success of the Covered
Action.

5

Claimant #9’s Response contesting the Preliminary Determination failed to offer any
evidence to the contrary. Rather, Claimant #9 contends that we should contact a former
Commission Chair and former Commission staff to understand how the information Claimant #9
submitted to the Commission was used. We decline to do so, as the record clearly shows that
Claimant #9’s information was forwarded to Enforcement staff in ARO in connection with a
separate and unrelated investigation, and not forwarded to investigative staff responsible for the
underlying investigations that led to the Covered Action. Moreover, Home Office and DRO
Enforcement staff responsible for the underlying investigations confirmed that they did not
receive any information from Claimant #9 before or during the course of their investigations.
Claimant #9 also argues that the whistleblower rules do not require an on-going
relationship between Enforcement staff and the whistleblower in order for the whistleblower to
receive an award. While we do not disagree, we think it is plain that the responsible
Enforcement staff must have, at the very least, received the whistleblower’s information in order
for the information to have contributed to the success of the enforcement action. Because
Claimant #9’s information did not lead to the successful enforcement of the Covered Action,
Claimant #9’s claim for award should be, and hereby is, denied.
V.

Conclusion

Accordingly, it is ORDERED that Claimant #13’s, Claimant #11’s, and Claimant #9’s
whistleblower award claims are denied.
By the Commission.
Brent J. Fields
Secretary

6

