UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77561 / April 8, 2016
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) announced the temporary
suspension, pursuant to Section 12(k) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange
Act"), of trading in the securities of Royale Globe Holding Inc. (ticker symbol “ROGP”), a
Nevada corporation with its principal place of business listed as Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia at 9:30
a.m. EDT on Friday, April 8, 2016, and terminating at 11:59 p.m. on Thursday, April 21, 2016.
The Commission temporarily suspended trading in the securities of Royale Globe Holding Inc.
because of questions regarding the accuracy of publicly available information about the
company’s operations and securities ownership, including details about its affiliation with
Maxim Capital Limited, a purported investment company operating under the name Maxim
Trader. Royale Globe Holding Inc. is delinquent in its periodic filings with the Commission,
having not filed any periodic reports since it filed its Form 10-Q for the period ended July 31,
2015.
The Commission cautions broker-dealers, shareholders, and prospective purchasers that they
should carefully consider the foregoing information along with all other currently available
information and any information subsequently issued by the company.
Further, brokers and dealers should be alert to the fact that, pursuant to Rule 15c2-11 under the
Exchange Act, at the termination of the trading suspension, no quotation may be entered unless
and until they have strictly complied with all of the provisions of the rule. If any broker or dealer
has any questions as to whether or not he has complied with the rule, he should not enter any
quotation but immediately contact the staff in the Division of Trading and Markets, Office of
Interpretation and Guidance, at (202) 551-5777. If any broker or dealer is uncertain as to what is
required by Rule 15c2-11, he should refrain from entering quotations relating to Royale Globe
Holding Inc.’s securities until such time as he has familiarized himself with the rule and is
certain that all of its provisions have been met. If any broker or dealer enters any quotation
which is in violation of the rule, the Commission will consider the need for prompt enforcement
action.
If any broker-dealer or other person has any information which may relate to this matter, the
Division of Enforcement of the Securities and Exchange Commission should be telephoned at
(202) 551-4721 (Daniel H. Rubenstein) or (202) 551-4960 (C. Joshua Felker).

