UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77696 / April 22, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17200
ORDER MAKING FINDINGS AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b)(6) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934

In the Matter of
LEVI D. LINDEMANN,
Respondent.

I.
On April 6, 2016, The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) instituted
public administrative proceedings against Levi D. Lindemann (“Lindemann” or “Respondent”) to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”).
II.
Lindemann has submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”) which the Commission has
determined to accept. Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings
brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent
consents to the entry of this Order Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions Pursuant to
Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:

1.
From March 2000 through March 2012, Lindemann was a registered representative
associated with broker-dealers registered with the Commission. Lindemann, 38 years old, is a
resident of West Lakeland, Minnesota.
2.
On March 3, 2016, a judgment was entered by consent against Lindemann,
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933
(“Securities Act”), Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, in the civil
action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Lindemann, Civil Action Number 14-cv4834, in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota.
3.
The Commission’s complaint alleged that Lindemann operated a fraudulent scheme
through his private company, Gershwin Financial, Inc. and his sole proprietorship, Alternative
Wealth Solutions. The SEC’s complaint alleged that from at least September 2009 to August
2013, Lindemann raised approximately $976,000 from six investors located in Wisconsin,
including elderly individuals and a member of his own family. The complaint further alleged that
Lindemann told these investors that their money would be used to purchase a variety of purported
investments including various notes and interests in a unit investment trust. The complaint alleged
that in reality, none of these investments were ever made.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Lindemann’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, ,
that Respondent Lindemann be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer,
investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally
recognized statistical rating organization; and
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent Lindemann be, and hereby is
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder,
consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for
purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the
purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
2

For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

