UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77373 / March 15, 2016
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 32028 / March 15, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17172
In the Matter of
BARRY B. CLARE,
Respondent.

ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASEAND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 15(b) AND
21C OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AND
SECTION 9(b) OF THE INVESTMENT
COMPANY ACT OF 1940 AND
NOTICE OF HEARING
I.

The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and
in the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and
hereby are, instituted pursuant to Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940
(“Investment Company Act”) against Barry B. Clare (“Clare” or “Respondent”).
II.
After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement alleges that:
Summary
1.
From at least March 2011 to March 2015 (the “Relevant Period”), while
serving as the vice president of finance at Baltia Air Lines, Inc. (“Baltia” or the “Company”),
Clare acted as an unregistered broker for sales of Baltia’s common stock to investors.
2.
Although Baltia has existed since 1989—ostensibly for the purpose of flying
commercial flights from New York City to St. Petersburg, Russia—it has never operated a
commercial flight or otherwise generated any revenue.

3.
To fund its operations, Baltia has sold its common stock to investors through
a continuous, unregistered offering that raised over $26 million during the Relevant Period.
4.
Baltia’s finance department, which Clare ran, essentially functioned as an inhouse brokerage firm.
5.
Clare acted as a broker by actively soliciting potential investors, recommending
investments in Baltia, negotiating and closing stock sales, and receiving transaction-based
compensation for his work.
Respondent
6.
Clare, age 57, resides in Bayside, New York. Clare joined Baltia in 2006 and has
served as its vice president of finance since approximately 2007. Since January 5, 2016, Clare has
also served as a director of Baltia.
Other Relevant Entity
7.
Baltia, a New York corporation formed on August 24, 1989 and
headquartered in Jamaica, New York, describes itself as a development-stage airline currently
seeking air carrier certification from the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”). Baltia
apparently plans to operate the only direct flight between New York City’s John F. Kennedy
International Airport and St. Petersburg, Russia. Baltia’s common stock is registered with the
Commission under Exchange Act Section 12(g) and quoted on OTC Link under the ticker
symbol BLTA. The stock has traded below $0.02 over the last year.
Clare’s Unregistered Brokerage Activities
8.
Because Baltia has never generated any revenue, it has funded its operations
through unregistered offerings of its common stock.
9.
Clare and others in Baltia’s finance department raised capital for Baltia by
selling the Company’s stock.
10.

During the Relevant Period, Baltia raised over $26 million through these stock

sales.
11.
To sell Baltia’s stock, Clare and others in Baltia’s finance department first
solicited potential investors.
12.
Clare and the Baltia employees he oversaw often contacted people whose
names appeared on certain lists of individuals who had no pre-existing relationship with Baltia.
13.
Clare actively solicited these and other potential investors by phone, by email,
and in person.
14.
Clare also solicited potential investors during two interviews broadcast on a
New York-area, Russian-language radio station in February and May 2014.
2

15.
In the interviews, Clare stated that Baltia was a “great investment opportunity”
and that he believed Baltia’s share price was “undervalued.”
16.

Baltia paid for each interview pursuant to an advertising contract.

17.
Once Clare and his employees had solicited potential investors, Clare
recommended investments in Baltia directly to the potential investors.
18.
For example, in 2011, Clare wrote and sent a glowing email about Baltia to
potential investors: “As discussed, Baltia Air Lines is quite an attractive investment
opportunity. I believe it is a prudent investment at this time.”
19.
Similarly, in March 2012, Clare wrote and sent another email to potential
investors: “I believe the investors who invest at this level could realize tremendous gains on
their investments once Baltia begins flight revenue operations this coming summer.”
20.
After actively soliciting investors and recommending Baltia investments to
them, Clare typically closed the stock sale.
21.

Clare generally met or spoke with Baltia’s investors himself.

22.
Clare collected subscriber questionnaires and subscription agreements and
ensured that the investors had completed the necessary forms.
23.
Although Baltia’s then-chief executive officer had to approve the price per
share each investor paid, Clare often helped finalize this price.
24.
Specifically, Clare told certain investors that the price per share could be
negotiated, he provided or relayed offers and counter-offers, and he helped implement the
negotiated price after the former CEO had accepted it.
25.
Finally, in return for his work, Clare received transaction-based compensation
of up to 20% of the proceeds of the Baltia investments he obtained.
26.
During the Relevant Period, Clare maintained ledgers of investments and
compensation paid to him.
27.
The ledgers list the name of each investor, the amount of the investment, the
number of shares received, and the compensation paid or owed to Clare based on the
investment, among other things.
28.
Clare’s ledgers typically note Baltia’s obligation to pay him a portion of the
amount of the investment, although Baltia’s actual payments to him varied based on the
Company’s financial situation.
29.
As Clare’s ledgers show, Clare sold Baltia stock on a near-daily basis during the
Relevant Period. Indeed, Clare participated in at least 820 sales of Baltia stock.
3

30.
During the Relevant Period, Clare received transaction-based compensation,
totaling approximately $1.7 million, for approximately 605 of these sales. Clare’s ledgers show
that Baltia owed him additional amounts of unpaid transaction-based compensation.
31.
Baltia’s Forms 10-K for the years 2011, 2012, and 2013 note that the Company
paid Clare “for negotiating services in connection with the raise of new equity capital.”
Violations
32.
As a result of the conduct described above, Clare willfully violated Exchange
Act Section 15(a), which makes it illegal for a broker or dealer to make use of the mails or any
means or instrumentality of interstate commerce to effect any transaction in, or to induce or
attempt to induce the purchase or sale of, any security unless the broker is registered with the
Commission or associated with a registered broker-dealer.
III.
In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement, the Commission
deems it necessary and appropriate in the public interest that public administrative and ceaseand-desist proceedings be instituted to determine:
A.
Whether the allegations set forth in Section II are true and, in connection
therewith, to afford Respondent an opportunity to establish any defenses to such allegations;
B.
What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against
Respondent pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act including, but not limited to,
disgorgement and civil penalties pursuant to Section 21B of the Exchange Act;
C.
What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against
Respondent pursuant to Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act including, but not
limited to, disgorgement and civil penalties pursuant to Section 9 of the Investment Company
Act; and
D.
Whether, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent should be
ordered to cease and desist from committing or causing violations of and any future violations
of Section 15(a) of the Exchange Act, whether Respondent should be ordered to pay a civil
penalty pursuant to Section 21B(a) of the Exchange Act and Section 9(d) of the Investment
Company Act, and whether Respondent should be ordered to pay disgorgement pursuant to
Sections 21B(e) and 21C(e) of the Exchange Act and Section 9 of the Investment Company
Act.
IV.
IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the
questions set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened not earlier than 30 days and not later
than 60 days from service of this Order at a time and place to be fixed, and before an

4

Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 of the
Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.110.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent shall file an Answer to the allegations
contained in this Order within twenty (20) days after service of this Order, as provided by Rule
220 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220.
If Respondent fails to file the directed answer, or fails to appear at a hearing after being
duly notified, the Respondent may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be
determined against him upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of which may be
deemed to be true as provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f) and 310 of the Commission’s
Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. §§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f) and 201.310.
This Order shall be served forthwith upon Respondent as provided for in the
Commission’s Rules of Practice.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an initial
decision no later than 300 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to Rule
360(a)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.
In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission
engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually
related proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter,
except as witness or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice. Since this proceeding is
not “rule making” within the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it is
not deemed subject to the provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any final
Commission action.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

5

