UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77747 / April 29, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17239
CORRECTED ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
STANLEY D. PARRISH,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Stanley D. Parrish
(“Parrish” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the purpose
of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings and the
findings contained in Sections III.2, below, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry
of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth
below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Parrish was a director and managing member of ST Ventures, LLC, a Utah limited
liability company. From at least January 2008 through July 2012, ST Ventures issued promissory
and raised investor capital. Parrish, 44 years old, is a resident of Highland, Utah.
2.
On April 19, 2016, a judgment was entered by consent against Parrish, permanently
enjoining him from future violations of Sections 5 and 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933
(“Securities Act”), Sections 10(b) and 15(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, in the
civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanley D. Parrish, et al., Civil Action
Number 2:14-CV-00510, in the United States District Court for the District of Utah.
3.
The Commission’s complaint alleged that, in connection with the offer and sale of
promissory notes, Parrish made material misrepresentations to investors regarding, among other
things, the security of their investment and the use of investor funds. The complaint also alleged
that Parrish misappropriated investor funds, used new investor funds to pay interest payments to
prior investors, and otherwise engaged in a variety of conduct which operated as a fraud and deceit
on investors. The complaint further alleged that Parrish sold unregistered securities and acted as an
unregistered broker or dealer, by, among other things, soliciting investments on behalf of ST
Ventures and receiving investor funds.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Parrish’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act,
that Respondent Parrish be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer,
investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally
recognized statistical rating organization; and
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent Parrish be, and hereby is
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder,
consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for
purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the
purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
2

as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

