UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77626 / April 14, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17147
In the Matter of
DEVON C. MCLEAN,

Respondent.

ORDER MAKING FINDINGS AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

I.
On March 1, 2016, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) previously
instituted public administrative proceedings against Devon C. McLean (“McLean” or
“Respondent”) pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange
Act”). The Commission now deems it appropriate and in the public interest to enter this Order
Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”).
II.
Respondent has submitted an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has
determined to accept. Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings
brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent
admits the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings and
admits the findings in Sections III.2 below, and consents to the entry of this Order, as set forth
below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
From July 2005 through May 2009, Respondent was an owner and the chief
financial officer of Paramount Group LLC (“Paramount”), a purported investment vehicle that
Respondent and Janice D. Rey (“Rey”) set up to operate as a Ponzi investment scheme in St.
Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands. During the time in which Respondent engaged in the conduct
underlying the indictment described below, Respondent was a registered representative associated
with three different broker-dealers registered with the Commission. Respondent, 46 years old, was
a resident of Homestead, Florida and is currently incarcerated.

2.
On March 5, 2013, McLean pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to
commit wire fraud in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1343 and 1349, before the
District Court of the Virgin Islands in United States v. Devon McLean, 3:11-CR-00038. On July
11, 2013, a judgment in the criminal case was entered against McLean. He was sentenced to a
prison term of 70 months followed by three years of supervised release, and the court ordered him
to make restitution in the amount of $3,006,260 and entered a forfeiture money judgment against
him in the amount of $5.5 million.
3.
The count of the second superseding indictment to which McLean pleaded
guilty alleged, among other things, that from July 2005 through May 2009, Respondent and Rey
conspired to run a Ponzi investment scheme. Respondent and Rey defrauded potential investors in
Paramount by falsely claiming that Paramount was part of Haliburton Co.; that investments with
Paramount were safe; that Paramount was trading in currencies, commodities, and rubies; that
investors would double their money in less than a year; that invested money would be loaned to
companies that would pay high interest rates to Paramount; that Paramount was approved by the
Federal Reserve; and that many prominent individuals were associated with Paramount, such as
then Vice President Dick Cheney. McLean and Rey did not use investors’ funds in the manner
represented, but used the money instead to pay promised returns to earlier investors and for the
personal use and benefit of McLean and Rey.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest
to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent McLean’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, that
Respondent McLean be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer,
investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, or transfer agent; and
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent McLean be, and hereby is
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter,
finder, consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer
for purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce
the purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;

2

and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

