UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77689 / April 22, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17224

In the Matter of
CALEB J. WHITE,
Respondent.

ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS
I.

The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Caleb J. White
(“Respondent”) or (“White”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of
these proceedings and the findings contained in Section III.2 below, which are admitted,
Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant
to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing
Remedial Sanction (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Caleb J. White, age 36, resides in Tyler, Texas. White has never been
registered with the Commission or FINRA.
2.
Servergy, Inc. is a Nevada corporation with its principal place of business
in McKinney, Texas. From 2009 through 2013, Servergy claimed to be a computer hardware

company with a single product, the CTS-1000, which allegedly consumed up to 80% less power
than other servers.
3.
On April 15, 2016, a final judgment was entered by consent against White,
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 5(a), 5(c), 17(a), and 17(b) of the
Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), and Sections 10(b) and 15(a) of the Exchange Act and
Rule 10b-5 thereunder in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Mapp et
al., Civil Action No.4:16-cv-246-ALM (E.D. Tex. April 11, 2016) in the United States District
Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Sherman Division (the “Complaint”).
4.
The Complaint alleged, among other things, that between April 2010 and
April 2012, White acted as an unregistered broker-dealer and conducted unregistered offerings of
Servergy’s common stock. Also, the Complaint alleged that White failed to disclose to investors
that Servergy paid him approximately $66,000 to promote its stock.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent White’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act that
Respondent be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser,
municipal securities dealer, or transfer agent; and
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent White be, and hereby is
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder,
consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for
purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the
purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

2

