UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78597 / August 17, 2016
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) announced the temporary
suspension, pursuant to Section 12(k) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange
Act"), of trading in the securities of Imperial Plantation Corporation (ticker symbol “IMPC”), a
Nevada corporation with its principal place of business listed as Tempe, Arizona at 9:30 a.m.
EDT on August 17, 2016, and terminating at 11:59 p.m. EDT on August 30, 2016.
The Commission temporarily suspended trading in the securities of Imperial Plantation
Corporation because of questions regarding the accuracy of publicly available information about
the company’s business transactions and securities, including inconsistent disclosures about
whether Imperial Plantation Corporation received $1 million in a private placement of one
billion shares of its stock, and inaccurate disclosure that it cancelled the one billion shares when
the shares remained outstanding as of June 22, 2016.
The Commission cautions broker-dealers, shareholders, and prospective purchasers that they
should carefully consider the foregoing information along with all other currently available
information and any information subsequently issued by the company.
Further, brokers and dealers should be alert to the fact that, pursuant to Rule 15c2-11 under the
Exchange Act, at the termination of the trading suspension, no quotation may be entered unless
and until they have strictly complied with all of the provisions of the rule. If any broker or dealer
has any questions as to whether or not he has complied with the rule, he should not enter any
quotation but immediately contact the staff in the Division of Trading and Markets, Office of
Interpretation and Guidance, at (202) 551-5777. If any broker or dealer is uncertain as to what is
required by Rule 15c2-11, he should refrain from entering quotations relating to Imperial
Plantation Corporation’s securities until such time as he has familiarized himself with the rule
and is certain that all of its provisions have been met. If any broker or dealer enters any
quotation which is in violation of the rule, the Commission will consider the need for prompt
enforcement action.
If any broker-dealer or other person has any information which may relate to this matter, the
Division of Enforcement of the Securities and Exchange Commission should be telephoned at
(202) 551-4721 (Daniel H. Rubenstein) or (202) 551-4960 (C. Joshua Felker).

