UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 76843 / January 6, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17037
ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO SECTION
15(b) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934 AND NOTICE OF HEARING

In the Matter of
WAYNE L. PALMER,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Wayne L. Palmer
(“Palmer” or “Respondent”).
II.
After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement alleges that:
A.

RESPONDENT

1.
Wayne L. Palmer was the owner and manager of National Note of Utah,
LLC (“National Note”). From 2004 until late 2014, Palmer, through his company National Note,
offered and sold National Note securities raising over $140 million from over 600 investors. At the
time National Notes’ offer and sale of securities took place, Palmer was not an associated person of
a registered broker-dealer. However, Palmer acted as a broker or dealer in offering and selling
National Note securities. Respondent, 60 years old, is a resident of West Jordan, Utah.

1

B.

ENTRY OF THE INJUNCTION

2.
On December 2, 2015, a final judgment was entered against Palmer,
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 5(a), 5(c), and 17(a) of the Securities
Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Sections 15(a) and 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5
thereunder, in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. National Note of
Utah, et. al., Civil Action Number 2:12-CV-591-BSJ, in the United States District Court for the
District of Utah.
3.
The Commission’s complaint alleged that, from at least 2004 until late
2014, in connection with the sale of National Note securities, Palmer misappropriated investor
funds, falsely stated to investors that their funds were secured by real estate, and otherwise engaged
in a variety of conduct that operated as a fraud and deceit on investors. The Complaint further
alleged that Respondent failed to inform investors that National Note was insolvent and its only
income comes from new investors. The Complaint also alleged that Palmer sold unregistered
securities in the form of promissory notes and acted as an unregistered broker.
III.
In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement, the Commission deems it
necessary and appropriate in the public interest that public administrative proceedings be instituted
to determine:
A.
Whether the allegations set forth in Section II hereof are true and, in connection
therewith, to afford Respondent an opportunity to establish any defenses to such allegations;
B.
What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against Respondent
pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act;
IV.
IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the questions
set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened at a time and place to be fixed, and before an
Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 of the
Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.110.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent shall file an Answer to the allegations
contained in this Order within twenty (20) days after service of this Order, as provided by Rule 220
of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220.
If Respondent fails to file the directed answer, or fails to appear at a hearing after being duly
notified, the Respondent may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be determined against
him upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of which may be deemed to be true as
2

provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f) and 310 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R.
§§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f) and 201.310.
This Order shall be served forthwith upon Respondent as provided for in the Commission’s
Rules of Practice.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an initial
decision no later than 210 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to Rule 360(a)(2) of
the Commission’s Rules of Practice.
In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission engaged
in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually related
proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter, except as witness
or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice. Since this proceeding is not “rule making” within
the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it is not deemed subject to the
provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any final Commission action.
For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

