UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78999 / September 29, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17602
In the Matter of

ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

JASON COPE,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Jason Cope
(“Respondent” or “Cope”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s
jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the findings contained in
paragraphs III.2 and III.4 below, and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative
Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings,
and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Between in or about December 2010 and November 2011, Cope defrauded investors
in Casablanca Mining Ltd. (“Casablanca”), an issuer with common stock registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act that was subject to Exchange Act reporting obligations pursuant

to Section 13(a). Among other things, Cope received transaction-based compensation in the form
of undisclosed commissions from Casablanca’s principal, Izak Zirk de Maison (f/k/a Izak Zirk
Engelbrecht) (“Engelbrecht”), to solicit investments in Casablanca’s securities. Cope did so
without being registered with the Commission as a broker or dealer. Cope, 43 years old, is a
resident of Highland Heights, Ohio.
Respondent participated in an offering of Casablanca stock, which was a penny
stock.
2.
On December 17, 2015, a final judgment was entered by consent against
Respondent, permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 5 and 17(a) of the
Securities Act of 1933, and Sections 9(a), 10(b), and 15(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5
thereunder in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Jason Cope et al.,
Civil Action Number 14 Civ. 7575, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of
New York.
3.
The Commission’s Amended Complaint alleged that Respondent defrauded
investors by, inter alia, accepting undisclosed commissions from Engelbrecht to solicit investors to
buy Casablanca securities. The Amended Complaint also alleged that Respondent sold
unregistered securities and solicited investors to purchase Casablanca securities without being
registered with the Commission as a broker or dealer.
4.
On October 23, 2015, Respondent pled guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit
securities fraud, 18 U.S.C. § 1348, and wire fraud, 18 U.S.C. § 1343, in violation of 18 U.S.C. §
1349; one count of securities fraud in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1348; one count of securities fraud
in violation of 15 U.S.C. § 78j(b), 78ff, and 17 C.F.R. § 240.10b-5; and four counts of wire fraud
in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1343 before the United States District Court for the Northern District of
Ohio, in United States v. Jason M. Cope, Crim. Information No. 1:15-cr-329.
5.
The counts of the criminal information to which Respondent pled guilty alleged,
inter alia, that Respondent defrauded investors and obtained money and property by means of
materially false and misleading statements, and that he engaged in a scheme to defraud by
transmitting and causing others to transmit funds from accounts in the Northern District of Ohio to
accounts controlled by Engelbrecht in California.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Cope’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act,
that Respondent Cope be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment
adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized
statistical rating organization; and

2

Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent Cope be, and hereby is
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder,
consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for
purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the
purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

