OMB APPROVAL
3235-0195
OMB Number:
Expires:
September 30, 2017
Estimated average burden
130.00
hours per response

UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM CA-l
APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION OR FOR EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION
AS A CLEARING AGENCY AND FOR AMENDMENT TO REGISTRATION
PURSUANT TO THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 ("the Act")
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE OF FORM CA-l
I.

General Instructions for Preparing and Filing Form CA-l

I.

Form CA-l is to be used by clearing agencies, as defined in Section 3(a)(23) of the Act, which perform the functions of a
clearing agency with respect to any security other than an exempted security, as defined in Section 3(a)(l2) of the Act, to
apply for registration or for exemption from registration or to amend registration with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (the "Commission"). As used hereinafter, the term "Form CA-l" includes the form and any required schedules,
exhibits or attachments thereto.

2.

Clearing agencies are required to file four completed copies of Form CA-l with the Commission, 100 F Street, N.E.,
Washington, D.C. 20549. In addition, with respect to a clearing agency for which the Commission is not the appropriate
regulatory agency, as defined in Section 3(a)(34)(8) of the Act, Section 17( c)(1) of the Act requires such clearing agency to
file with the appropriate regulatory agency for such clearing agency a signed copy of any application, document or report
filed with the Commission. Each clearing agency should retain an exact copy of Form CA-l for the clearing agency's
records.

3.

The date on which a Form CA-l is received by the Commission shall be the date of filing thereof if all the requirements with
respect to filing have been complied with. A Form CA-l which is not prepared and executed in compliance with applicable
requirements may be returned as not acceptable for filing. However, acceptance of Form CA-l shall not constitute a finding
that it has been filed as required or that the information submitted is true, current or complete.

4.

Copies of Form CA-l and the schedules, exhibits and attachments thereto may be duplicated and are acceptable for filing
provided an original, manual signature is affixed to the execution section of each copy. Form CA-l and the schedules,
exhibits and attachments thereto may be duplicated by any method producing legible copies, of type size identical to that in
the Form, on good quality, unglazed, white paper.

5.

If Form CA-l is filed by a corporation, it shall be signed in the name ofthe corporation by a principal officer duly authorized;
if it is filed other than by a corporation it shall be signed by a duly authorized principal of the organization filing the Form.
As used in this Form, principal officer means the president, vice president, treasurer, secretary, comptroller or any other
person performing a similar function.

6.

If the space provided for the answers to items 1-9 of Form CA-l is insufficient, the complete answer shall be prepared on
Schedule A, which shall be attached to the Form.

7.

Individuals' names, except for executing signatures, shall be given in full wherever required (last name, first name, middle
name). The full middle name is required. Initials are not acceptable unless the individual legally has only an initial.

8.

Unless the context otherwise requires, "registrant" means the entity on whose behalf Form CA-l is filed, whether filed as a
registration, as an application for exemption from registration or as an amendment to a previously filed Form CA-l.

9.

Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the terms used in Form CA-l have the meanings given in the Act.

Persons who respond to the collection of information contained
in this form are not required to respond unless the form displays
a currently valid OMB control number.
116770955

SEC 1853 (2-09)

II.

Instructions Relating to Filing Form CA-l as a Registration Form or an Application for Exemption From
Registration

I 0.

If Form CA-l is being filed as a registration form or an application for exemption from registration, all applicable items are
required to be answered in full. If any item is not applicable, respond with "none" or "N/A" (not applicable), as appropriate.

II.

If Form CA-l is being filed as an application for exemption from registration, it must be accompanied by a statement
demonstrating why the granting of an exemption from registration as a clearing agency would be consistent with the public
interest, the protection of investors and the purposes of Section 17A of the Act.

III.

Instructions Relating to Filing Form CA-l as an Amendment to a Registration Form

12.

Promptly following the date on which information reported at items 1-3 of Form CA-l becomes inaccurate, incomplete or
misleading, the registrant shall file an amendment on Form CA-l correcting the inaccurate, incomplete or misleading
information.

13.

If an item is amended, the registrant must repeat all unamended items as they last appeared on the page on which the
amended item appears and must file four copies of the new page, each with updated and properly completed cover and
execution pages.

IV.

Instructions as to SPECIFIC ITEMS on Form CA-l

14.

Cover page-Indicate whether Form CA-l is filed as a registration, an application for exemption from registration or an
amendment. If the Form is filed as a registration, indicate whether the applicant requests the Commission to consider
granting registration in accordance with paragraph (c)(l) of Rule 17 Ab2-l.

15.

Item I-Include a street address; a post office box alone is not acceptable.

16.

In responding to, and furnishing the schedules required by, the items on Form CA-l, particularly items 5(c)(ii) and 5(d)(ii)
and the exhibits required by items 20 and 21, the registrant may request that confidential treatment be accorded with respect
to the information disclosed, by binding the responses, schedules and exhibits for which confidential treatment is sought
separately from the balance of Form CA-l and furnishing a statement requesting confidential treatment, specifying both the
exemptive provision under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552(b)) on which the request is based and the
considerations which make the exemptive provision applicable to the information for which confidential treatment is
requested.

V.

Notice

17.

Under Sections 17, 17A(b) and 23(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations thereunder, the
Securities and Exchange Commission is authorized to solicit the information required to be supplied by this Form from
applicants for registration or for exemption from registration as a clearing agency. Disclosure to the Commission of the
information requested in Form CA-l (except for the disclosure by an individual registrant of his Social Security number as an
IRS Employee Identification Number, which is voluntary) is a prerequisite to the processing of applications for registration or
for exemption from registration as a clearing agency. The information will be used for the principal purpose of determining
whether the Commission should grant registration or an exemption from registration or institute proceedings to deny
registration. Social Security numbers, if furnished, will be used only to assist the Commission in identifying applicants and,
therefore, in promptly processing applications. Information supplied on this Form will be included routinely in the public
files of the Commission. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a current valid control number.

2
116770955

FORM CA-l
FORM FOR REGISTRATION OR FOR EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION
AS A CLEARING AGENCY AND FOR AMENDMENT TO REGISTRATION
AS A CLEARING AGENCY PURSUANT TO THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
GENERAL
Form CA-l is to be used to apply for registration or for exemption from registration as a clearing agency and to amend
registration as a clearing agency with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 17 A of the Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934. Read all instructions before preparing the Form. Please type or print all responses .
Euroclear Bank SA/NV
(Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)
I Boulevard du Roi Albert II ; B-121 0 Brussels, Belgium
(Address of registrant's principal place ofbusiness)
This Form is filed as:

0
0

a registration
a request for exemption from registration
an amendment

~

If filed as a registration, does registrant request the Commission to consider granting registration in accordance with
paragraph(c)(l)ofRule 17Ab2-l undertheAct? ...... .... ................ .... .................. ............ .... .......... ........ ............ ......... O Yes 0 No
EXECUTION
The Registrant submitting this Form, its schedules, its exhibits and its attachments and the person by whom it is executed
represent hereby that all information contained herein is true, current and complete. Submission of any amendment after registration
has become effective represents that items 1-3 and any schedules, exhibits and attachments related to items 1-3 remain true, current
and complete as previously submitted.
Registrant agrees and consents that the notice of any proceedings under Sections 17 A or 19 of the Act involving registrant
may be given by sending such notice by registered or certified mail or confirmed telegram to the person named, and at the address
given, in response to item 2.
Dated the _ _ _q__.:__ __ day of

May
Euroclear Bank SA/NV
(Name of clearing agency))

(Manual signature of Principal Officer or duly authorized Principal)
Chief Executive Officer
(Title)
ATTENTION: Intentional misstatements or omissions of fact constitute Federal Criminal Violations
(See 18 U.S.C. 1001 and 15 U.S.C. 78ff(a))
GENERAL INFORMATION
I.

Exact name, principal business address, mailing address (if different) and telephone number of registrant:

Name of registrant: Euroclear Bank SA/NV

IRS Employee Identification '-'N'-"o"--.-"-9-""8-_,0""2"'3""5.:e_0-""87"------------

Name under which clearing agency activities are conducted, if different:

3
11 6770955

'-'N'-'-1A,_.___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

If name of registrant is hereby amended, state name under which registered previously:_,N-'-'/c.o.A.!.-_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
If name under which clearing agency activities are conducted is hereby amended, state name given previously: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
N/A
Address of principal place of business:
1 Boulevard du Roi Albert II
Number and Street

Brussels
City

Belgium
State

B-1210
Zip Code

N/A
City

State

Zip Code

Mailing address, if different:
Number and Street
Telephone Number: -'-+"'"'32""2"--------Area Code
2.

326-1211
Telephone Number

Name, title, mailing address and telephone number of person in charge of registrant's clearing agency activities:

Urbain Valerie
Name

Chief Executive Officer
Title

I Boulevard du Roi Albert II
Number and Street
Telephone Number: -'-+""-32""2,___ _ __
Area Code
3.

(a)

4.

B-1210
Zip Code

326-1424
Telephone Number

If registrant is a corporation or a national association: state date on which registrant was incorporated or organized and
jurisdiction in which incorporated or under which organized:

Date: May 15,2000
(b)

Belgium
State

Brussels
City

Jurisdiction: -"'B"'e'-'"1"-'i-"'-u!.!.m,____ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

If registrant is not a corporation or a national association, describe on Schedule A the form of organization under which
registrant conducts its business and identifY the jurisdiction in which registrant is organized.

Does registrant have any arrangement with any other person under which, with respect to registrant's clearing agency activities,
such other person processes, keeps, transmits or maintains any securities, funds, records or accounts of registrant or registrant's
participants relating to clearing agency activities? ................................................................ ~ Yes D No

If answer is "yes," furnish [in] Schedule A, as to each such arrangement, the full name and principal business address of the other
person and a brief summary of each such arrangement.
5.

(a)

With respect to clearing agency activities, please provide the following information regarding the type of insurance carried
or provided:
Type of Insurance
I. Blanket Bond
2. Fidelity

Yes

No

D

~

~

D

4
116770955

Amount of Coverage
$
$291 MM - thirdparty losses related to
fraud/crime
$82 MM - Euroclear
Bank's own losses
related to fraud/crime

Amount of Deductible
$
$5.5 MM

(b)

3. Errors and [Omissions]
4.Mail Policy

~
~

0
0

5. Air Courier

~

0

6. Lost Instrument

~

0

7. Other (please specify on Schedule A)

0

~

$291 MM
$5.5 MM for nonbearer securities
$2.2 MM for bearer
securities
See response to 5(a)(4)
above.
$55 MM related to
physical securities
$

$5.5 MM
$0

$
$1.1 MM
$

If any registrant's clearing activities are not covered by insurance, has provision been made for self-insurance?
Yes

........................................................................................................................................................................... 0

~

No

If yes, indicate on Schedule A the provisions made for self-insurance (e.g., accounting reserve or funded reserve) and the amount
thereof.
(c) (i) As a result of registrant's clearing agency activities, is registrant exposed to loss if a participant falls to perform its
obligations to the clearing agency, any other participant or any other person? ........................................ 0 Yes ~ No
(ii) If "yes," describe on Schedule A the operational, organizational or other rules, procedures or practices (citing rules if
applicable) which result in registrant's exposure to loss.
(d) (i) Does the registrant maintain a clearing or participants' fund, mark to the market open obligations involving the purchase
or sale of securities or otherwise required participants to protect registrant against losses to which it may be exposed as a
result of a participant's failure to perform its obligations to the clearing agency, any other participant or any other
person? .................................................................................................................................................... 0 Yes ~ No
(ii) If "yes," describe on Schedule A the operational, organizational or other rules, procedures or practices (citing rules if
applicable) which are designed to protect registrant against any such losses.
6.

(a) Is registrant audited by an independent accountant? ...................................................................................... ~ Yes

0 No

(b) If registrant is audited by an independent accountant, does the audit include a review of internal controls related to clearing
agency activities? ........................................................................................................................................... ~ Yes 0 No
(c) Fiscal year-end of registrant ---'3"-1"---7.

_ __,lc::2__(Day/Month)

(a) What are registrant's internal policies and procedures for reconciling differences (including long and short stock record
differences and dividend differences) in its clearing agency activities? See Schedule A
(b) State, as of September 30, 1975, the dollar amount of the potential exposure of registrant, if any, as a result of differences
(without offsetting long differences against short differences and without offsetting any suspense account items) in its
clearing agency activities not resolved after 20 business days. $_,_N-"/..!.A_,.'---"'S-"-ee"-"S"'c.!.!h.::::ed""u~l"'e_,_A_o__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

8.

(a) How many employees does registrant have engaged in clearing agency activities? -"S""e"'e'-'S"'c""h""e""d""u_,_,le"""'A'-'----------(b) How many years has registrant performed clearing agency activities? --------'S"'e::..:e=-=Sc""h"'e"-'do.:uo.:.le"-'-A"'-----------

9.

(a) Are registrant's clearing agency activities subject to regulation by any federal agency other than the Commission or by any
state or political subdivision?.......................................................................................................................... 0 Yes ~ No
If yes, specify the name of the agency, state or political subdivision: See Schedule A

5
!!6770955

(b) Have the registrant's clearing agency activities been the subject of periodic examinations by any federal agency other than
the Commission or by any state or political subdivision? .............................................................................. D Yes ~ No
If yes, specify the name of the agency, state or political subdivision: See Schedule A

6
116770955

SCHEDULE A OF FORM CA-l
1.

Full name of Registrant as stated in Item I of Form CA-l

Euroclear Bank SA/NV
2.

Included in this Schedule A are the supplementary responses of Euroclear Bank SA/NV ("Euroclear Bank") to
Items I through 9 of Form CA-l. Each capitalized term used but not defined in this Schedule A has the meaning set
forth in the attached responses to Exhibits A-S of Form CA-l.
Response

Item of Form
(Identify)
p(b).

Form of Organization;
Jurisdiction.

Euroclear Bank is a company (a societe anonyme).

~.

List of Depositories.

The names and locations for depositories and cash correspondents used by
Euroclear Bank are attached as Exhibit I- I. In addition, DTC will act as
depository for U.S. Equity Securities in connection with the U.S. Equities
Proposal. The address for DTC is included in Exhibit I.

7(a).

Reconciling Differences

See attached Item 7(a)-l.

7(b).

Potential Exposure on
September 30, 1975

Euroclear Bank did not engage in any Clearing Agency Activities on or before
September 30, I 975.

8(a).

Employees

Euroclear Bank employs approximately 1,500 employees.

8(b).

Employees

Euroclear Bank has performed Clearing Agency Activities for approximately
16 years. However, the Euroclear System, which is the clearing and settlemen
system operated by Euroclear Bank, has been in operation for approximately 47
years.

9(a).

Other Agencies.

Euroclear Bank's New York representative office is licensed as such by the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the New York State Department o
Financial Services. There are no Clearing Agency Activities performed at the
New York representative office.

9(b).

Examinations.

Pursuant to the licenses described in response to Item 9(a) above, Euroclea
Bank's New York representative office is subject to periodic examination by
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the New York State Department 01
Financial Services.

7
116770955

EXHIBITS-BUSINESS ORGANIZATION
I 0. List in Exhibit A any person who either directly or indirectly, through agreement or otherwise, may control or direct the
management or policies of registrant. For each person listed, provide the full name and address and attach a copy of each written
agreement or, if the agreements are unwritten, describe the agreement or arrangement through which such person exercises or
may exercise such control or direction.
11. List in Exhibit B the registrant's corporate officers, trust officers, managers or other persons occupying a similar status or
performing similar functions who supervise, or are directly responsible for the conduct of, registrant's clearing agency activities,
indicating for each:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)

Name
Title
Area of responsibility
A brief account ofthe business experience during the last five (5) years.

12. Attach as Exhibit C narrative and graphic descriptions of registrant's organizational structure. If clearing agency activities are
conducted primarily by a division, subdivision, or other segregable entity within the registrant corporation or organization,
identifY the relationship of such entity to the registrant's overall organizational structure and limit the descriptions to the division,
subdivision or other segregable entity which performs clearing agency activities.
13. Attach as Exhibit D a list of persons who directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, are controlled by, or are under
common control with, the clearing agency and indicate the nature of the control relationship.
14. Attach as Exhibit E a copy of the currently effective constitution, articles of incorporation or assoctatiOn, by-laws, rules,
procedures and instruments corresponding thereto, of the registrant and a complete list of all dues, fees and other charges imposed
by registrant for its clearing agency activities.
15. Attach as Exhibit F a brief description of any material pending legal proceeding, other than ordinary and routine litigation
incidental to the business, to which the registrant or any of its subsidiaries is a party or to which any of its or their property is the
subject. Include the name of the court or agency in which the proceeding is pending, the date instituted, and the principal parties
thereto, a description of the factual basis alleged to underlie the proceeding and the relief sought. Include similar information as
to any such proceeding known to be contemplated by governmental agencies.
16. Attach as Exhibit G copies of all contracts with any national securities exchange, national secunttes association or clearing
agency or securities market for which the registrant acts as a clearing agency or performs clearing agency functions.

EXHIBITS-FINANCIAL INFORMATION
17. Attach as Exhibit H a balance sheet and statement of income and expenses, and all notes or schedules thereto of registrant, as of
registrant's most recent fiscal year for which such information is available, certified by an independent accountant. (If certified
financial information is not available, uncertified financial information should be submitted).
18. Attach as Exhibit I the addresses of all offices in which clearing agency activities are performed by registrant, or for registrant by
any person listed in response to item 4, and identifY the nature of the clearing activities performed in each office listed.

EXHIBITS-OPERATIONAL CAPACITY
19. Attach as Exhibit J narrative descriptions of each service or function performed by the registrant.
20. Attach as Exhibit K a description of the measures or procedures employed by registrant to provide for the security of any system
which performs the functions of a clearing agency. Include a general description of any operational safeguards designed to
prevent unauthorized access to the system (including unauthorized input or retrieval of information for which the primary record
source is not hard copy). IdentifY any instances within the past year in which the described security measures or safeguards failed

8
116770955

to prevent unauthorized access to the system and describe any measures taken to prevent a recurrence of any such incident.
Describe also any measures used to verify the accuracy of information received or disseminated by the system.
21. Attach as Exhibit L a description of the measures or procedures employed by registrant to provide for the safeguarding of
securities and funds in its custody or control. IdentifY any instances within the past year in which the described security measures
or safeguards failed to prevent any unauthorized access to securities or funds in possession of registrant and any measures taken
to prevent a recurrence of any such incident.
22. If clearing agency functions are performed by automated facilities or systems, attach as Exhibit M a description of all backup
systems or subsystems which are designed to prevent interruptions in the performance of any function as a result of technical or
other malfunction. Include backups for input or output links to the system and precautions with respect to malfunctions in any
areas external to the system.

EXHIBITS-ACCESS TO SERVICES
23. Attach as Exhibit N a list of the persons who currently participate, or who have applied for participation, in registrant's clearing
agency activities (if registrant performs more than one activity, a columnar presentation may be utilized).
24. Attach as Exhibit 0 a description of any specifications, qualifications, or other criteria which limit, are interpreted to limit, or
have the effect of limiting access to, or use of, any clearing agency service furnished by the registrant and state the reasons for
imposing such specifications, qualifications, or other criteria.
25. Attach as Exhibit P copies of any form of contracts governing the terms on which persons may subscribe to clearing agency
services provided by the registrant.
26. Attach as Exhibit Q a schedule of any prices, rates or fees fixed by registrant for services rendered by its participants.
27. Attach as Exhibit R a schedule of any prohibitions or limitations imposed by the clearing agency on access by any person to
services offered by any participant.

EXHIBIT-APPLICATION FOR EXEMPTION
28. If this is an application for an exemption from registration as a clearing agency, attach as Exhibit S a statement demonstrating
why the granting of an exemption from registration as a clearing agency would be consistent with the public interest, the
protection of investors and the purposes of Section 17 A of the Act, including the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of
securities transactions and the safeguarding of securities and funds.

9
116770955

GLOSSARY OF TERMS

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
FORM CA-1
“1998 Exemption Order” means Self-Regulatory Organizations; Morgan Guaranty Trust
Company of New York, Brussels Office, as Operator of the Euroclear System; Order Approving
Application for Exemption from Registration as a Clearing Agency, 63 Fed. Reg. 8232 (Feb. 18,
1998).
“2001 Exemption Order” means Self-Regulatory Organizations; Morgan Guaranty Trust
Company, Brussels Office, as Operator of the Euroclear System and Euroclear Bank, S.A.; Order
Approving Application to Modify an Existing Exemption from Clearing Agency Registration, 66
Fed. Reg. 819 (Jan. 4, 2001).
“2005 Decree” means the Belgian Royal Decree of September 26, 2005 regarding the status of
settlement institutions assimilated thereto.
“2015 EB Disclosure Report” means Euroclear Bank’s October 20, 2015 ISAE 3402 Report.
“2015 Matching Exemption Orders” means Bloomberg STP LLS; SS&C Technologies, Inc.;
Order of the Commission Approving Applications for an Exemption from Registration as a
Clearing Agency, 80 Fed. Reg. 75388, 75390 nn.10-12 (Nov. 24, 2015).
“ARP” means the Commission’s Automation Review Policy.
“BCBS” means the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.
“BCP” means business continuity plan.
“BIA” means business impact analysis.
“CBFA” means the Belgian Commission Bancaire, Financière et des Assurances.
“CCPs” means central counterparties.
“central securities depository services” has the meaning set forth in 17 C.F.R. 240.17Ad22(a)(2).
“CEO” means Chief Executive Officer.
“CFTC” means the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
“Clearing Agency Activities” means the combined scope of activities encompassed by the U.S.
Equities Clearing Agency Activities and the U.S. Government Securities Clearing Agency
Activities.
“Clearing Agency Standards Proposing Release” means Exchange Act Release No. 34-68080
(Oct. 22, 2012), 77 Fed. Reg. 66219 (Nov. 2, 2012).

GLOSSARY OF TERMS-1

GLOSSARY OF TERMS

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

“Collateral Account” means the EB Account of a collateral taker (which will be a segregated
account only for holding collateral).
“Commission” means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
“Company” means Euroclear Bank SA/NV.
“COO” means Chief Operating Officer.
“COSO” means the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
“CPMI” means the Committee on Payments and Market Infrastructure (the new name of CPSS).
“CPSS” means the Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems.
“CRO” means Chief Risk Officer.
“CSD” means central securities depository.
“CSDR” means the European Union’s Central Securities Depositories Regulation.
“Current Equities Restrictions” means existing prohibitions that prevent U.S. Participants from
using U.S. Equities for any purpose in EB Accounts.
“DEGCL” means DTCC-Euroclear Global Collateral Ltd.
“Described Entities” means national securities exchanges, national securities associations or
clearing agencies or securities markets for which Euroclear Bank does not provide Clearing
Agency Activities.
“DSSP” means designated settlement service provider.
“DTC” means The Depository Trust Company.
“DTCC” means The Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation.
“DTC Participant” means any entity that is an EB Participant and has a participant account at
DTC.
“EB-CMS” means Euroclear Bank’s collateral management services.
“EB-CMS Services Agreement” means an agreement between an EB Participant and Euroclear
Bank for the provision of collateral management services.
“EB-CMS Users” means banks, brokers and dealers and treasury management functions of large
qualified corporate entities that use EB-CMS.
“EB Accounts” means the securities accounts and current cash accounts of an EB Participant on
the books of Euroclear Bank.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS-2

GLOSSARY OF TERMS

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

“EB Participant” means any entity that has a securities or cash account at Euroclear Bank.
“EBE” means Euroclear Belgium C.I.K. SA/NV.
“EF” means Euroclear France SA.
“EFi” means Euroclear Finland Oy.
“EI” means Euroclear Investments SA.
“Eligible U.S. Government Security” means the following: (i) “government securities” as
defined in Section 3(a)(42) of the Exchange Act that are eligible for transfer or processing on
Fedwire, except that it shall not include any foreign-targeted U.S. government or agency
securities or securities issued or guaranteed by the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development or any other similar international organization; (ii) mortgage-backed pass-through
securities that are guaranteed by the GMNA; and (iii) collateralized mortgage obligations whose
underlying securities are Fedwire-eligible U.S. government securities or GMNA guaranteed
mortgage-backed pass-through securities and which are depository eligible securities.
“ENL” means Euroclear Nederland.
“Eplc” means Euroclear plc.
“Equity Security” means an instrument that represents a direct ownership in a company, such as
a stock, share, certificate of interest or participation in any profit sharing agreement,
preorganization certificate of subscription, voting trust certificate or certificate of deposit for an
equity security, limited partnership interest, interest in a joint venture, or certificate of interest in
a business trust. However, the term “Equity Security” does not include interests in structured
finance vehicles such as limited partnerships, business trusts or similar arrangements that have
no independent operations and are used solely as special purpose financing vehicles.
“ERM” means the Euroclear Group’s enterprise risk management framework.
“ES” means Euroclear Sweden AB.
“ESA” means Euroclear SA/NV.
“EUI” means Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited.
“Euroclear Bank” means Euroclear Bank SA/NV.
“Euroclear Group” means the Euroclear group of companies that provide critical market
infrastructure by offering clearance, settlement and related services.
“Euroclear Group (I)CSDs” means, collectively, Euroclear Bank and the CSDs to domestic
markets in Belgium, Netherlands, France, England and Ireland, Sweden and Finland.

GLOSSARY OF TERMS-3

GLOSSARY OF TERMS

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

“Euroclear System” means the securities settlement system that has been operated by Euroclear
Bank or its predecessor since 1968, and the assets, means and rights related to such services. All
services performed by Euroclear Bank that relate to securities settlement and custody are part of
the “Euroclear System.”
“Euroclear System Contracts” means the terms and conditions applicable to EB Accounts.
“Exchange Act” means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
“Existing Exemption” means the 2001 Exemption Order.
“Existing Exemption Order” means the 2001 Exemption Order.
“FSMA” means the Belgian Financial Services Market Authority.
“GNMA” means the Government National Mortgage Association.
“ICSD” means international central securities depository.
“IMS” means inventory management services.
“IMS Linked Accounts” means dedicated EB Accounts established for crediting IMS Securities
on the books of Euroclear Bank, each of which will be designated by the EB Participant for JVIMS related activity.
“IMS Securities” means securities that an IMS User wants to make available via the JV-IMS for
mobilization as collateral through EB-CMS.
“IMS Users” means DTC participants that are users of IMS.
“IOSCO” means the International Organization of Securities Commissions.
“IT” means information technology.
“JV-CMS” means the collateral management services that DEGCL intends to offer.
“JV-IMS” means the inventory management services that DEGCL intends to offer.
“MGT-Brussels” means the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York (Brussels Office).
“Modification Application” means Euroclear Bank’s 2016 filing with the Commission to
amend its Existing Exemption.
“Modification Request” means the proposed modification to the Existing Exemption Order set
forth in the Modification Application.
“MOU” means Memorandum of Understanding.

GLOSSARY OF TERMS-4

GLOSSARY OF TERMS

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

“non-U.S. Participants” means EB Participants that did not qualify as “U.S. Participants” as
defined by the Commission in the 1998 Exemption Order.
“NBB” means the National Bank of Belgium.
“New Banking Law” means the Belgian banking law, dated April 25, 2014, under which
Euroclear Bank is authorized in Belgium.
“New Collateral Regulations” means new and enhanced regulations regarding the central
clearing of derivative transactions that take effect in September 2016.
“OIS” means open inventory sourcing.
“Omgeo” means Omgeo Matching Services – U.S. LLC.
“Operating Procedures” means the Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System.
“OTC” means over-the-counter.
“PFMI Principles” means the principles contained in the PFMI Report.
“PFMI Report” means the Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures report.
“Regulation SCI Adopting Release” means Exchange Act Release No. 34-73639 (Nov. 19,
2014), 79 Fed. Reg. 72251 (Dec. 5, 2014).
“Royal Decree No. 62” means the coordinated Royal Decree No. 62, dated Nov. 10, 1967, on
the Deposit of Fungible Financial Instruments and the Settlement of Transactions involving such
Instruments.
“SCI Entity” means an entity subject to Regulation SCI.
“SCI entities” means entities that must comply with Regulation SCI’s requirements with respect
to automated systems that support the performance of their regulated activities.
“Securities Clearance Accounts” means the securities accounts that EB Participants are
required to open and maintain in order to utilize Euroclear System services.
“Systems” means Euroclear Bank systems that support or are integrally related to the Clearing
Agency Activities.
“Systems Event” means a disruption, compliance issue, or intrusion of the Systems that impacts,
or is reasonably likely to impact, the Clearing Agency Activities.
“Terms and Conditions” means the Terms and Conditions Governing Use of Euroclear.
“U.S. Equities Clearing Agency Activities” means (i) Euroclear Bank’s continued authority,
pursuant to the 2001 Exemption Order, to provide clearance, settlement and collateral

GLOSSARY OF TERMS-5

GLOSSARY OF TERMS

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

management services for its U.S. Participants’ transactions in Eligible U.S. Government
Securities without registering as a clearing agency with the Commission on substantially the
same conditions applicable to such U.S. Government Securities Clearing Agency Activities
under the Existing Exemption Order, and (ii) the authority, pursuant to the Modification Request,
to provide, through accounts held at Euroclear Bank, clearance, settlement and collateral
management services for its U.S. Participants’ use of U.S. Equity Securities in support of
collateral obligations utilizing the collateral management services provided by Euroclear Bank,
including U.S. Participants’ receipt and delivery of U.S. Equity Securities through dedicated
accounts at Euroclear Bank related to the provision of IMS by the joint venture with DEGCL.
“U.S. Equities Proposal” means Euroclear Bank’s proposal to allow eligible U.S. Participants to
receive U.S. Equity Securities into their Euroclear Bank accounts for collateral management
purposes.
“U.S. Equities” means the Equity Securities of U.S. Issuers.
“U.S. Equity Securities” means the Equity Securities of U.S. Issuers.
“U.S. Government Securities Clearing Agency Activities” means the clearance, settlement and
collateral management services for transactions in Eligible U.S. Government Securities by U.S.
Participants that Euroclear Bank is allowed to engage in pursuant to the Existing Exemption.
“U.S. Issuer” means an issuer organized or incorporated under the laws of any state of the U.S.,
territory thereof, or the District of Columbia.
“U.S. Participant” means any Euroclear System participant having a U.S. residence, based upon
the location of its executive office or principal place of business, including, without limitation,
(i) a U.S. bank (as defined by Section 3(a)(6) of the Exchange Act), (ii) a foreign branch of a
U.S. bank or U.S.-registered broker-dealer, and (iii) any broker-dealer registered as such with the
Commission, even if such broker-dealer does not have a U.S. residence.

GLOSSARY OF TERMS-6

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
FORM CA-1
Through this application and pursuant to Section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(the “Exchange Act”) and the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
“Commission”) promulgated thereunder, Euroclear Bank SA/NV (“Euroclear Bank” or the
“Company”) hereby amends its previously filed Form CA-1 1 to apply for a modification of its
existing exemption from registration as a “clearing agency,” as that term is defined in
Section 3(a)(23) of the Exchange Act.
The Commission previously issued an exemption from registration as a clearing agency to
Euroclear Bank’s predecessor, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York (Brussels Office)
(“MGT-Brussels”), as the operator of the Euroclear System. 2 The Commission subsequently
modified the exemption to replace MGT-Brussels with Euroclear Bank as the successor operator
of the Euroclear System (the exemption, as modified, the “Existing Exemption” or “Existing
Exemption Order”). 3
Pursuant to the Existing Exemption, Euroclear Bank is permitted to provide clearance, settlement
and collateral management services for transactions in Eligible U.S. Government Securities by
U.S. Participants (the “U.S. Government Securities Clearing Agency Activities”). 4 The
1

See Commission File No. 601-01.

2

Self-Regulatory Organizations; Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, Brussels Office, as Operator of
the Euroclear System; Order Approving Application for Exemption from Registration as a Clearing Agency, 63 Fed.
Reg. 8232 (Feb. 18, 1998) (“1998 Exemption Order”). As used herein, the term “Euroclear System” is used to
describe the collection of securities settlement and related services that have been offered by Euroclear Bank or its
predecessor since 1968, and the assets, means and rights related to such services. All services performed by
Euroclear Bank that relate to securities settlement and custody are part of the “Euroclear System.”
3

Self-Regulatory Organizations; Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, Brussels Office, as Operator of the Euroclear
System and Euroclear Bank, S.A.; Order Approving Application to Modify an Existing Exemption from Clearing
Agency Registration, 66 Fed. Reg. 819 (Jan. 4, 2001) (“2001 Exemption Order”). On Dec. 31, 2000, the business
and related assets and liabilities of the Euroclear System vested in Euroclear Bank and virtually all of the staff
associated with the Euroclear System were transferred to Euroclear Bank.
4

See 1998 Exemption Order, 63 Fed. Reg. at 8239. As used herein, the term “Eligible U.S. Government Security”
refers to the following: (i) “government securities” as defined in Section 3(a)(42) of the Exchange Act that are
eligible for transfer or processing on Fedwire, except that it shall not include any foreign-targeted U.S. government
or agency securities or securities issued or guaranteed by the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development or any other similar international organization; (ii) mortgage-backed pass-through securities that are
guaranteed by the Government National Mortgage Association (“GNMA”) and (iii) collateralized mortgage
obligations whose underlying securities are Fedwire-eligible U.S. government securities or GNMA guaranteed
mortgage-backed pass-through securities and which are depository eligible securities. As used herein, the term
“U.S. Participant” refers to any Euroclear System participant having a U.S. residence, based upon the location of
its executive office or principal place of business, including, without limitation, (i) a U.S. bank (as defined by
Section 3(a)(6) of the Exchange Act), (ii) a foreign branch of a U.S. bank or U.S.-registered broker-dealer and
(iii) any broker-dealer registered as such with the Commission even if such broker-dealer does not have a U.S.
residence.

For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
Existing Exemption covers only the offering of U.S. Government Securities Clearing Agency
Activities, and does not relate to Euroclear Bank’s activities in securities other than Eligible U.S.
Government Securities or to the offering of services to participants that are not U.S.
Participants. 5 The Existing Exemption Order provides that Euroclear Bank may request that the
exemption be broadened to perform clearing agency functions for securities other than Eligible
U.S. Government Securities. 6
Euroclear Bank requests that the Commission broaden Euroclear Bank’s Existing Exemption to
provide authority for Euroclear Bank to offer specified securities processing services for Equity
Securities 7 of U.S. Issuers 8 (“U.S. Equity Securities”). As described in greater detail within the
application, Euroclear Bank proposes to allow eligible U.S. Participants to receive and use U.S.
Equity Securities in their Euroclear Bank accounts for collateral management purposes (the
“U.S. Equities Proposal”). Accordingly, this Form CA-1 application describes Euroclear
Bank’s organization, governance and operations related to the U.S. Equities Proposal and the
current U.S. Government Securities Clearing Agency Activities, where applicable.
Euroclear Bank therefore requests that the Commission, on the basis of this amended application:
•

continue the authority granted to Euroclear Bank in the 2001 Exemption Order to
provide clearance, settlement and collateral management services for its U.S.
Participants’ transactions in Eligible U.S. Government Securities without registering
as a clearing agency with the Commission on substantially the same conditions
applicable to such U.S. Government Securities Clearing Agency Activities under the
Existing Exemption Order; and

•

grant to Euroclear Bank the authority to provide, through accounts held at Euroclear
Bank, clearing agency services (such as certain central securities depository services 9
and collateral management services) for its U.S. Participants’ use of U.S. Equity
Securities in support of collateral obligations utilizing the collateral management
services provided by Euroclear Bank, including U.S. Participants’ receipt and

5

See 62 Fed. Reg. 26833, 26835 n.16 (May 15, 1997); see also 1998 Exemption Order, 63 Fed. Reg. at 8234, 8239.

6

See 1998 Exemption Order, 63 Fed. Reg. at 8239.

7

As used herein, the term “Equity Security” refers to an instrument that represents a direct ownership in a
company, such as a stock, share, certificate of interest or participation in any profit sharing agreement,
preorganization certificate of subscription, voting trust certificate or certificate of deposit for an equity security,
limited partnership interest, interest in a joint venture or certificate of interest in a business trust. However, the term
“Equity Security” does not include interests in structured finance vehicles such as limited partnerships, business
trusts or similar arrangements that have no independent operations and are used solely as special purpose financing
vehicles.
8

As used herein, the term “U.S. Issuer” refers to an issuer organized or incorporated under the laws of any state of
the U.S., territory thereof or the District of Columbia.
9

As used herein, the term “central securities depository services” has the meaning set forth in 17 C.F.R.
240.17Ad-22(a)(2).

2
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
delivery of U.S. Equity Securities through dedicated accounts at Euroclear Bank
related to the provision of inventory management services (“IMS”) by the joint
venture with DTCC-Euroclear Global Collateral Ltd. (“DEGCL”) (collectively, the
“U.S. Equities Clearing Agency Activities”), without registering as a clearing
agency with the Commission and subject only to the conditions specified in Exhibit
S-1.
Throughout the application, any references to the combined scope of activities included in the
U.S. Equities Clearing Agency Activities and the U.S. Government Securities Clearing Agency
Activities are generally referred to as the “Clearing Agency Activities.”

3
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EXHIBIT A

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
FORM CA-1

List in Exhibit A any person who either directly or indirectly, through agreement or otherwise,
may control or direct the management or policies of registrant. For each person listed, provide
the full name and address and attach a copy of each written agreement or, if the agreements are
unwritten, describe the agreement or arrangement through which such person exercises or may
exercise such control or direction.
*

*

*

As constituted under Euroclear Bank’s Articles of Association, the management and policies of
Euroclear Bank are directly controlled by its Board of Directors and relevant management and
Board committees. The members of Euroclear Bank’s Board of Directors and its committees are
listed in Exhibit B. Euroclear Bank’s Articles of Association are attached as Exhibit E-2.
Euroclear Bank is part of the Euroclear group of companies that provide critical market
infrastructure by offering clearance, settlement and related services (collectively, “Euroclear
Group”). All control and direction of the Euroclear Group strategic decisions is vested in
Euroclear SA/NV (“ESA”). ESA is an indirectly wholly owned subsidiary of Euroclear plc
(“Eplc”), through Eplc’s wholly owned subsidiary Euroclear Investments SA (“EI”). 1 For
reference, an organizational chart of Euroclear Group is attached as Exhibit D-1. A brief
description of each of these entities is set forth below.
Eplc
Eplc, an unlisted public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales, is
the ultimate parent company of Euroclear Group. Eplc has approximately 150 shareholders
(certain of which are Euroclear Bank participants), with the 20 largest shareholders holding
approximately 61% of outstanding shares.
EI
EI, a wholly owned subsidiary of Eplc, is a Luxemburg incorporated “société anonyme”. EI is
the intermediary holding company through which Eplc holds its investments in various operating
entities, including ESA. EI also provides various management and administrative services for
the members of the Euroclear Group, such as entering into insurance policies and providing real
estate management through its subsidiaries.

1

EI owns 99.99% of ESA, with one share owned by Eplc. ESA owns 99.99% of Euroclear Bank, with one share
owned by EI.

A-1
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EXHIBIT A

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

ESA
ESA, an indirectly wholly owned subsidiary of Eplc, is a Belgian limited liability company
(“société anonyme/naamloze vennootschap”). ESA is the parent company of Euroclear Bank
and Euroclear Group’s other entities that offer settlement and related services. ESA also
provides centralized shared services to those entities, including centralized Euroclear Group
technology services and technology infrastructure and corporate support services.
Euroclear Bank is authorized in Belgium as a Belgian credit institution under the Belgian New
Banking Law of April 25, 2014, and is supervised by the National Bank of Belgium (“NBB”)
and the Belgian Financial Services Market Authority. Euroclear Bank is also recognized as a
designated settlement system. As a parent company and service provider to Euroclear Bank,
ESA is authorized in Belgium as a holding company of a regulated credit institution and also as
an “institution assimilated to a securities settlement system” under the Belgian Royal Decree of
September 26, 2005 (the “2005 Decree”). Pursuant to Article 20, § 2 of the 2005 Decree,
institutions assimilated to a settlement institution may not have shareholdings in commercial
companies without the prior approval of the NBB, unless the shareholding is taken in companies
whose activities consist, in whole or in part, in activities in which a settlement institution or
institution assimilated thereto may carry out.
As the immediate parent company of Euroclear Bank, ESA and its Board of Directors indirectly
determine the general direction and strategy for Euroclear Bank. As such, the members of
ESA’s Board of Directors and Management Committee are set forth below. To help ensure fair
representation of Euroclear Bank’s participants in the administration and oversight of Euroclear
Bank’s affairs, members of the Board of Directors of ESA reflect the user governance
framework of Euroclear Group with a majority of Board Directors being senior executives
proposed by users/shareholders of Euroclear Group. Each of these affiliations is indicated
below.
ESA Board of Directors
Marc Antoine Marie Hugues Autheman, Independent Director, Chairman
Michel Marie Clément Henri Berthezène (Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations; appointed by
Sicovam Holding), Director
Ingeborg Johanna Dagny Laurent Boets, Independent Director
Cian David Burke (HSBC Holdings), Independent Director
Patrick Colle (BNP Paribas Securities Services; appointed by Sicovam Holding), Director
Stephen Arthur James Davies (Bank of America Merrill Lynch), Director
John Devine, Independent Director
A-2
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EXHIBIT A

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Mark Stephen Garvin (J.P. Morgan plc), Director
Frédéric Jean Noël Fernand Ghislain Hannequart, Executive Director and Chief Business
Development Officer
Isabelle Hennebelle (Goldman Sachs International), Director
Toru Horie (Mizuho Trust & Banking S.A.), Director
Timothy John Howell, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer
Thomas William David Isaac (Citigroup), Director
Masashi Kurabe (Mitsubishi UFJ Global Custody), Director
Francis Alfred Joseph La Salla (Bank of New York Mellon), Director
Xiaochi Liu (Kuri Atyak Investment Ltd.), Director
François Jean Marion (CACEIS; appointed by Sicovam Holding), Director
Godelieve Rachel Lucia Mostrey, Executive Director and Chief Technology and Services Officer
Nils-Fredrik Nyblaeus (SEB AB), Director
Franco Passacantando, Independent Director
Bruno Yves Jacki Prigent (Société Générale), Director
Satvinder Singh (Deutsche Bank AG), Director
Clare Eleanor Woodman (Morgan Stanley EMEA), Director
Eddy Omer Laurent Thérèse Wymeersch, Independent Director, Deputy Chairman
ESA Management Committee
Timothy John Howell, Chief Executive Officer
Frédéric Jean Noël Fernand Ghislain Hannequart, Chief Business Development Officer
Godelieve Rachel Lucia Mostrey, Chief Technology and Services Officer
Bernard Frenay, Chief Financial Officer
Yves Poullet, Head of Corporate Technology
Valérie Marie-Hélène Urbain, Chief Executive Officer, Euroclear Bank

A-3
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EXHIBIT A

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Luc Jan Camiel Vantomme, Chief Risk Officer
Joseph Marie Bertha René Van de Velde, Head of Product Management
ESA and the individuals listed in this Exhibit A may be reached at the following address:
Euroclear SA/NV
c/o Company Secretary
1 Boulevard du Roi Albert II
1210 Brussels, Belgium

A-4
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EXHIBIT B

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
FORM CA-1

List in Exhibit B the registrant’s corporate officers, trust officers, managers or other persons
occupying a similar status or performing similar functions who supervise, or are directly
responsible for the conduct of, registrant’s clearing agency activities, indicating for each:
(a) Name (b) Title (c) Area of responsibility (d) A brief account of the business experience during
the last five (5) years.
*

*

*

Euroclear Bank’s Clearing Agency Activities are not performed within a segregated specific
geographic region or division within the Company. Therefore, listed below are the Directors,
Officers and managers charged with overseeing and managing Euroclear Bank’s overall
operations, including its Clearing Agency Activities.
Frédéric Jean Noël Fernand Ghislain Hannequart
Mr. Hannequart has served as a Non-Executive Director and the Chairman of Euroclear Bank’s
Board of Directors since June 2007. He has also served as Chairman of its Remuneration
Committee and its Nominations and Governance Committee since that date.
In addition to his role at Euroclear Bank, Mr. Hannequart is an Executive Director on ESA’s
Board of Directors, a member of ESA’s Management Committee and Chairman of Euroclear UK
& Ireland Limited’s (“EUI”) Board of Directors. He also serves as the Chief Business
Development Officer of ESA.
Pierre Paul Jan Maria Berger
Mr. Berger is a Non-Executive Independent Director and Chair of Euroclear Bank’s Audit and
Risk Committees. Prior to serving on the Board of Euroclear Bank, Mr. Berger was a partner
and qualified auditor at KPMG until September 2011.
James Michael Martin
Mr. Martin is a Non-Executive Independent Director and member of Euroclear Bank’s
Remuneration Committee and Nominations and Governance Committee. Since March 2012, he
has served as the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) of HedgeServ (UK) Limited. Prior to this
position, Mr. Martin worked at HSBC from August 1998 to December 2011, holding various
positions, including in the Funds Services and Securities Services Divisions.

B-1
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EXHIBIT B

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Godelieve Rachel Lucia Mostrey
Ms. Mostrey is a Non-Executive Director and member of Euroclear Bank’s Audit and Risk
Committees. In October 2010, Ms. Mostrey joined ESA as Chief Technology and Services
Officer. Ms. Mostrey is a member of ESA’s Management Committee and an Executive Director
of ESA’s Board of Directors. Ms. Mostrey serves as the Chairperson of the Board of Directors
of Euroclear Sweden AB (“ES”), Euroclear Finland Oy (“EFi”), Euroclear Belgium C.I.K.
SA/NV (“EBE”), Euroclear France SA (“EF”) and Euroclear Nederland (“ENL”). In addition
to her responsibilities within Euroclear, Ms. Mostrey is a non-executive Director and member of
RealDolmen’s Board of Directors and Audit Committee. She also serves as a member of the
Board of Directors of Euronext NV and chairs its Remuneration Committee.
Joseph Marie Bertha René Van de Velde
Mr. Van de Velde is a Non-Executive Director of Euroclear Bank’s Board of Directors. In
addition to his role at Euroclear Bank, Mr. Van de Velde has also served as the head of ESA’s
Product Management Division since 2008, and is a member of ESA’s Management Committee.
Mr. Van de Velde is also a Director of DEGCL.
Valérie Marie-Hélène Urbain
Ms. Urbain is an Executive Director and the Chairperson of Euroclear Bank’s Management
Committee. Ms. Urbain was appointed CEO of Euroclear Bank in February 2015. As CEO,
Ms. Urbain is responsible for Euroclear Bank’s worldwide Operations, Commercial, Client
Service, Banking and Network Management Divisions. In addition to her role at Euroclear
Bank, Ms. Urbain is a member of ESA’s Management Committee. Between 2009 and 2015,
Ms. Urbain served as the CEO of EBE, EF and ENL.
Pierre Yves Herman Victor Marie Goemans
Mr. Goemans is an Executive Director and member of Euroclear Bank’s Management
Committee. He has also served as a Managing Director and head of ESA’s Commercial Division
since August 2008. Mr. Goemans also is a Director of DEGCL.
Pierre Roger Fernand Robert Slechten
Mr. Slechten has served as an Executive Director and a member of Euroclear Bank’s
Management Committee, as well as Euroclear Bank’s Chief Operating Officer (“COO”) since
April 2012. From January 2011 to March 2012, Mr. Slechten led Euroclear Bank’s Asset
Servicing and Transaction Processing operations, as well as Euroclear Bank’s Asia operations.
Luc Jan Camiel Vantomme
Mr. Vantomme is an Executive Director and member of Euroclear Bank’s Management
Committee. In addition, he is the Chief Risk Officer (“CRO”) of Euroclear Bank. He is also
B-2
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EXHIBIT B

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

CRO and Chief Compliance Officer of ESA and a member of ESA’s Management Committee.
Previously, Mr. Vantomme served as a Managing Director and head of Euroclear Bank’s
Network Management and Banking Division from September 2007 to January 2011.
Stéphane Albert André Bernard
Mr. Bernard has served as head of Asset Servicing and Transactions Operations for Euroclear
Bank since April 2012. In addition to his roles at Euroclear Bank, he is a member of the Board
of Directors and the Audit Committees of EBE, EF and ENL. Prior to his current position with
Euroclear Bank, Mr. Bernard served as a member of the Management Committee and COO for
EBE, EF and ENL from January 2009 to April 2012.
Inge Billiau
Ms. Billiau has served as the head of Treasury, Credit and Network Management for Euroclear
Bank since October 2015. Previously, Ms. Billiau served as head of the Network Management
Department from May 2011 to October 2015, where she had responsibility for developing
relationships and services with Euroclear Bank’s network of agents and network providers.

B-3
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EXHIBIT C

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
FORM CA-1

Attach as Exhibit C narrative and graphic descriptions of registrant’s organizational structure.
If clearing agency activities are conducted primarily by a division, subdivision or other
segregable entity within the registrant corporation or organization, identify the relationship of
such entity to the registrant’s overall organizational structure and limit the descriptions to the
division, subdivision or other segregable entity which performs clearing agency activities.
*

*

*

As noted in Exhibit B, Euroclear Bank’s Clearing Agency Activities are not limited to the
responsibility of a specific division within the Company or other segregable entity or group.
Accordingly, below is a description of Euroclear Bank’s overall organizational structure,
including its Board of Directors, committees and operations departments, which includes
oversight of the Clearing Agency Activities.
Please find attached as Exhibit C-1 a diagram outlining Euroclear Bank’s operations
departments.
Board of Directors
Euroclear Bank’s Board of Directors is its ultimate decision-making body and is charged with
setting the policies and strategy for the Company.
Board Committees
Euroclear Bank’s Board of Directors has established a Management Committee in accordance
with Belgian legal and regulatory requirements and has delegated to it the general management
of the Company in accordance with the strategy and policies set by the Board of Directors. The
Board of Directors also has established the following committees exclusively composed of
non-executive directors: the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee, the Nominations and
Governance Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Each committee is composed of at least two directors. With the exception of the Management
Committee, at least one member of each committee is deemed “independent” under applicable
Belgian law.
Management Committee
The Management Committee has been entrusted with the general management of the Company,
and acts in accordance with applicable law and the rules set out in Euroclear Bank’s Articles of
Association and under the supervision of the Board of Directors.

C-1
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EXHIBIT C

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Management Committee reports directly to the Board of Directors and, as appropriate, to the
specific committees which in turn report their analyses to the Board of Directors.
The Management Committee may delegate specific powers which may be exercised beyond the
day-to-day management to one or more individuals. As provided in the Management Committee
Terms of Reference, the Management Committee may delegate the following:
•

specific powers to committees in all areas necessary or useful to the management of
Euroclear Bank; and

•

specific powers to senior management, in all areas necessary or useful to the
management of Euroclear Bank insofar as they fall within the remit of their
respective divisions.

However, certain powers are exclusive to the Management Committee and may not be delegated
by the Management Committee. Such powers include:
•

decisions on the reporting process to the Board of Directors (content and frequency
of reporting obligations);

•

strategic recommendations to the Board of Directors;

•

decisions effecting a material change to the global internal organizational structure of
Euroclear Bank; and

•

decisions that involve a material reputational, material financial or material legal risk
to Euroclear Bank.

Euroclear Bank Divisions - Operating Services
Euroclear Bank is organized into the operating divisions and departments described below, with
each division headed by the COO or a division head. In certain instances, the personnel and
other resources for a division or department are provided pursuant to intercompany services
agreements between Euroclear Bank and ESA or other Euroclear Group affiliates, and references
in this Exhibit C to activities performed by a division or department are, where applicable, to
activities that are supplied to Euroclear Bank pursuant to the intercompany services agreements.
The intercompany services agreements are attached hereto as Exhibit C-2 and Exhibit C-3.
Asset Servicing and Transactions Operations Division
The Asset Servicing and Transactions Operations Division is responsible for the execution of all
asset servicing, settlement and cash services functions and related client support functions.
Some of these services may also be provided by the Euroclear Bank Hong Kong and Kraków
branches.

C-2
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EXHIBIT C

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Collateral Management and Funds and Strategic Program Support Operations Division
The Collateral Management and Funds Operations is responsible for the following services and
related client support functions: collateral management, securities lending and investment funds
operations.
The Strategic Program Support Operations supports the Euroclear Bank branch in Kraków and
the development of a dual operations center between Belgium and Kraków.
This division also covers the Euroclear Bank services provided by the Euroclear Bank Hong
Kong and Kraków branches.
Treasury, Credit and Network Management Division
The Network Management Department is responsible for the creation, development and
maintenance of market links and the selection and management of domestic and international
securities custodians and agents, cash correspondents and funds transfer agents.
The Treasury and Credit Team combines the treasury, liquidity and credit management functions
of Euroclear Bank. The Treasury Department is responsible for implementing the market and
liquidity framework. The Treasury Department also manages Euroclear Bank’s balance sheet,
investment book and the management of day-to-day liquidity and buy-ins. The Credit
Department is responsible for evaluating the creditworthiness of Euroclear Bank counterparties
with a credit arrangement, setting the credit limits, negotiating the recourse, valuating a
participant’s collateral in Euroclear Bank and implementing the required credit documentation.
Credit needs and usage are managed and monitored on a daily basis. The Middle Office, Data
Management and Banking Solutions Department provides “middle office” support to Euroclear
Bank’s Treasury and Credit Departments and is responsible for the management and regulatory
reporting regarding credit, market and liquidity risks.
Commercial
The Commercial Division provides operational and technical support to its participants, opens
and closes participant accounts according to Euroclear Bank policies and verifies the authenticity
of contracts, operational documents and manual instructions. The Commercial Division also
provides support through representative offices located in New York, Beijing, Dubai, Frankfurt,
Singapore and Tokyo. The representative offices also provide relationship management support.
Technology and Support Services
ESA acts as the group service company providing shared services to Euroclear Bank and other
Euroclear Group companies in services arrangements with each group company. Services
provided by ESA to Euroclear Bank are: information technology (“IT”) production and

C-3
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EXHIBIT C

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

development; human resources; audit; legal; financial; risk management; compliance; sales and
relationship management; product management; strategy; and public affairs.

C-4
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
Exhibit C-1

Euroclear Bank Structure
Board
Poland Branch

Corporate Secretary
CEO

Hong Kong Branch

Stéphane Bernard
Asset Servicing &
Transactions Operations

Internal Auditor

Compliance Officer

Collateral
PierreManagement
Slechten
and Funds/
Foreign Branch Operations

Inge Billiau
Treasury, Credit & Network
Management

Pierre-Yves Goemans**
Commercial –
Representative Offices

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
Exhibit C-1

Euroclear Bank
CEO

Asset Servicing &
Transactions
Operations

Equity Reach &

Collateral Management
and Funds/
Foreign Branch
Operations

Collateral management

Corporate Actions

Operations Strategic
Programmes
Support

Krakow Operations

Treasury & Credit
Management

Credit

Geert Desmedt

Network
Management

Funds Transfer
Agents + Network
Management
Office

Treasury
Securities Settlement,
Cash Services

International

Business Transformation
for Service Excellence
Hong Kong Operations

Income & Tax

Investment Funds Account
Set-up & Processing

Banking Middle
Office, Data
Management &
Project
Management

Europe incl T2S
relationship
management

Rest of the world
New Issues

Quality Control
Assurance

Investment Funds Asset
Servicing and Client
Services

Europe incl T2S
Projects &
Collateral
management

Asia

EXHIBIT D

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
FORM CA-1

Attach as Exhibit D a list of persons who directly or indirectly, through one or more
intermediaries, are controlled by, or are under common control with, the clearing agency and
indicate the nature of the control relationship.
*

*

*

Below is an explanation of the nature of the control relationships among Euroclear Bank and
other members of Euroclear Group that are under the control of ESA, Euroclear Bank’s
immediate parent company. Please find attached as Exhibit D-1 a diagram outlining the
common control relationship between Euroclear Bank and other Euroclear Group entities.
Operating Affiliates of Euroclear Bank
The following active 1 Euroclear Group companies provide clearance, settlement and related
services or other post-trade processing services and are owned in whole or in part by ESA.
DEGCL
DEGCL is a joint venture between The Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation (“DTCC”) and
ESA, formed for the purpose of offering collateral management services to support market
participants in meeting their risk management and regulatory requirements. As described further
in Exhibit S-1, DEGCL will provide an IMS to its customers, which will permit entities that are
participants in both Euroclear Bank and DTC to transfer assets from certain accounts at DTC to
certain accounts of the same legal entities at Euroclear Bank. The U.S. Equities Proposal is
related to the offering of the IMS to Euroclear Bank participants.
EBE
EBE is the commercial name of “Caisse Interprofessionnelle de Dépôts et de Virements de Titres
SA/Interprofessionele Effectendeposito-en Girokas NV (C.I.K.)”, a Belgian incorporated “société
anonyme”. EBE is a central securities depository (“CSD”) in Belgium for equities and a range
of other securities. EBE also is a securities settlement system that settles Euronext stock
exchange transactions (with LCH.Clearnet S.A. as central counterparty) and over-the-counter
(“OTC”) transactions. In addition, EBE provides custody and other services to financial
institutions and issuers.

1

EMX Company Limited and Euroclear International Services Limited are wholly owned subsidiaries of ESA that
are dormant.

D-1
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EXHIBIT D

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

ENL
ENL is the registered commercial name of “Nederlands Centraal Instituut voor Giraal
Effectenverkeer B.V. (NECIGEF)”, a Dutch incorporated “besloten vennootschap”. ENL is the
CSD of the Netherlands, appointed by the Minister of Finance as the Centraal Instituut under the
Dutch Securities Giro Act. ENL also is a securities settlement system that settles Euronext stock
exchange transactions (with LCH.Clearnet S.A. as central counterparty) and OTC transactions,
and provides custody and other services to its financial institutions and issuers.
EF
EF, a French incorporated “société anonyme”, is the CSD of France and a securities settlement
system that settles Euronext stock exchange transactions (with LCH.Clearnet S.A. as central
counterparty) and OTC transactions, and provides custody and other services to financial
institutions and issuers. EF is wholly owned by ESA, apart from seven shares that are owned by
individual shareholders.
EUI
EUI, an English incorporated limited company, owns and operates the CREST system, which is
the CSD of the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland. The CREST system provides
real-time settlement for a range of corporate and government securities and money market
instruments traded on the London Stock Exchange, the Irish Stock Exchange and various
multilateral trading facilities. Such securities and instruments are held in electronic form as
balances in the CREST system. EUI also owns and operates the EMX Funds Order Routing
Service that provides the electronic messaging used for automating the purchase, sale, valuation,
reconciliation and registration of funds.
EUI also is the parent company to the following subsidiaries: CIN (Belgium) Limited; CREST
Client Tax Nominee (No. 1) Limited; CREST Depository Limited; CREST International
Nominees Limited; CREST Stamp Nominee (No. 1) Limited; CREST Stamp Nominee (No. 2)
Limited; CRESTCo Limited; and Trinity Nominees Limited.
ES
ES, a private limited liability company (Aktiebolag) incorporated in Sweden, is the CSD of
Sweden. ES provides registrar services for Swedish and foreign securities, clearance and
settlement services in addition to certain back-office services.
EFi
EFi, a private limited liability company (Osakeyhtiö) incorporated in Finland, is the CSD of
Finland. EFi provides clearance and settlement as well as registrar services for Finnish and
foreign securities, in addition to other related back-office services.
D-2
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EXHIBIT D

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Subsidiaries of Euroclear Bank
As shown on Exhibit D-1, Euroclear Bank owns the following five nominee companies: EC
Nominees Limited; EOC Equity Limited; Euroclear Nominees Limited; Euroclear Treasury
Nominee Limited; and FundSettle EOC Nominees Limited. The nominee companies are used to
receive securities deposited with Euroclear Bank to hold in local markets and for Euroclear
Bank’s treasury activities.
Euroclear Bank also owns one other subsidiary, Calar Belgium SA/NV, a société
anonyme/naamloze vennootschap that owns real estate used by Euroclear Bank in its operations. 2
Sister Companies of ESA
EI is the intermediary holding company of ESA and sister companies of ESA that are not
operating as CSDs (i.e., Euroclear Market Solutions Limited, Euroclear Properties France SAS,
Euroclear Re SA and Taskize Ltd). These sister companies provide various services to Euroclear
Group companies and clients, including reinsurance, software services, operational support and
real estate management.

2

Euroclear Finance 2 SA, a former subsidiary of Euroclear Bank, was liquidated and dissolved in 2015.

D-3
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
Exhibit D-1
January 2016

Euroclear group structure
Euroclear plc

Euroclear Investments SA
Euroclear SA/NV
DTCC-Euroclear
Global Collateral Ltd
99.9%

Euroclear
Belgium
(C.I.K. SA/NV)

EMX
Company
Limited

Euroclear
Nederland
(NECIGEF)

Euroclear
France

Euroclear
UK and
Ireland Ltd.

Euroclear
Bank SA/NV

Euroclear
International
Services
Limited

Euroclear
Sweden AB

Euroclear
Finland Oy

Nominee Companies:
Calar Belgium

Euroclear Bank SA/NV
Hong Kong branch

Euroclear Bank SA/NV
Spółka Akcyjna (Poland) branch

EC Nominees Ltd
Euroclear Nominees Ltd
EOC Equity Ltd
FundSettle EOC Nominees Ltd
Euroclear Treasury Nominee Ltd

EXHIBIT E

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
FORM CA-1

Attach as Exhibit E a copy of the currently effective constitution, articles of incorporation or
association, by-laws, rules, procedures and instruments corresponding thereto, of the registrant
and a complete list of all dues, fees and other charges imposed by registrant for its clearing
agency activities.
*

*

*

Attached to this Exhibit E are Euroclear Bank’s organizational documents. Also attached to this
Exhibit E are the rules, procedures and other documentation generally governing the Euroclear
System (including the Clearing Agency Activities), together with the fees imposed by Euroclear
Bank for its activities, including the Clearing Agency Activities.
Exhibit E-1

Certificate of Incorporation for Euroclear Bank

Exhibit E-2

Articles of Association for Euroclear Bank

Exhibit E-3

April 2014 Terms and Conditions Governing Use of Euroclear

Exhibit E-4

October 2010 Supplementary Terms and Conditions Governing the
Lending and Borrowing of Securities through Euroclear

Exhibit E-5

February 2016 Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

Exhibit E-6

February 2016 Euroclear Bank General Fees Brochure

Euroclear Bank currently intends to charge for the U.S. Equities Clearing Agency Activities in
alignment with its existing fee structure, as reflected in Exhibit E-6. Euroclear Bank generally
does not charge Participants different fees on the basis of whether the Participant is a U.S.
Participant. The level of any particular fee charged by Euroclear Bank within its fee structure
may differ depending on a variety of factors reflecting service differences, costs and other
pricing considerations. For example, the level of fees charged for receipt of securities through
one Euroclear Bank link may differ from the same type of fee charged for receipt of securities
through a different link. It is therefore possible that the levels of fees associated with the U.S.
Equities Proposal may differ from the level of fees for similar services relating to different
markets or structures. Euroclear Bank notes that as an enterprise located and doing business
within the European Union, it must comply with relevant EU competition law principles with
respect to its pricing policies.
Additional agreements related to the U.S. Equities Proposal are attached as Exhibit P-1 through
Exhibit P-14.

E-1
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

Exhibit E-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE10001

Exhibit E-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE10002

Exhibit E-2

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE20001

Exhibit E-2

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE20002

Exhibit E-2

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE20003

Exhibit E-2

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE20004

Exhibit E-2

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE20005

Exhibit E-2

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE20006

Exhibit E-2

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE20007

Exhibit E-2

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE20008

Exhibit E-2

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE20009

Exhibit E-2

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE20010

Exhibit E-2

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE20011

Exhibit E-2

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE20012

Exhibit E-2

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE20013

Exhibit E-2

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE20014

Exhibit E-2

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE20015

Exhibit E-2

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE20016

Exhibit E-2

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE20017

Exhibit E-2

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE20018

Exhibit E-2

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE20019

Exhibit E-2

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE20020

Exhibit E-2

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE20021

Exhibit E-2

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE20022

Exhibit E-2

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE20023

Exhibit E-2

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE20024

Exhibit E-2

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE20025

Exhibit E-2

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE20026

Exhibit E-3

April 2014

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Terms and Conditions
governing use of
Euroclear
The clearance and settlement
system for internationally traded
securities

75011925 M 9605143 / 1
EXE30001

Exhibit E-3

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Euroclear System is operated under contract by:
Euroclear Bank SA/NV
1 Boulevard du Roi Albert II
B-1210 Brussels, Belgium
RPM Brussels 0429875591
Tel: +32 (0)2 326 1211
www.euroclear.com
M 2014 Euroclear Bank SA/NV
All rights reserved.
Euroclear is the marketing name for the Euroclear System, Euroclear plc,
Euroclear SA/NV and their affiliates
Euroclear Bank is a banking corporation organised under the laws of the Kingdom of Belgium
No part of this document may be reproduced, in any forms or by any means, without permission in writing from
Euroclear Bank SA/NV

EXE30002

Exhibit E-3

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE30003

Exhibit E-3

Terms and Conditions governing use of Euroclear

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

1.

Definitions .............................................................................................................................................................. 3

2.

Securities Clearance Accounts and Cash Accounts............................................................................................... 4

3.

Operating Procedures ............................................................................................................................................ 4

4.

Holding of securities; terms of custody................................................................................................................... 4

5.

Payments with respect to securities ....................................................................................................................... 6

6.

Effecting transactions............................................................................................................................................. 6

7.

Limitation on effecting transactions ........................................................................................................................ 6

8.

Receipt of securities............................................................................................................................................... 7

9.

Reversal of entries ................................................................................................................................................. 7

10.

Statements to be rendered by Euroclear Bank....................................................................................................... 7

11.

Depositories; Other Settlement Systems................................................................................................................ 7

12.

Duties and liabilities of Euroclear Bank .................................................................................................................. 8

13.

Fees and expenses................................................................................................................................................ 9

14.

Termination of participation; resignation of Participants ......................................................................................... 9

15.

Certain responsibilities and liabilities of Participants ............................................................................................ 10

16.

Special rules applicable to Cash Accounts........................................................................................................... 11

17.

Securities losses .................................................................................................................................................. 12

18.

Entire agreement; benefit of Terms and Conditions ............................................................................................. 14

19.

Modifications; waivers .......................................................................................................................................... 14

20.

Notices................................................................................................................................................................. 14

21.

Maintenance of records; limitation on actions ...................................................................................................... 14

22.

Governing law; jurisdiction; evidence ................................................................................................................... 14

April 2014

Page 1

EXE30004

Exhibit E-3

April 2014

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Terms and Conditions governing use of Euroclear

Page 2

EXE30005

Exhibit E-3

Terms and Conditions governing use of Euroclear

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The following Terms and Conditions govern your use of the Euroclear System.

1.

Definitions

The following definitions apply when used in this document, unless the context requires otherwise:
Account – any account opened by us in your name as described in the Terms and Conditions, including, without
limitation, Securities Clearance Accounts, Cash Accounts and Non-Deposit Accounts.
Business Day – a day when Euroclear Bank is open for business.
Cash Account – a current account (which may be divided into a number of sub-accounts, denominated in any
Settlement Currency as permitted by the Operating Procedures) opened in connection with the Euroclear System by us
on our books in your name.
Depository – a financial institution at which securities are held in custody in accordance with Section 4(b)(i) or, as
required, any custody agent or other service provider, including a common service provider, appointed by us to service
securities.
Euroclear Bank – we, Euroclear Bank, a société anonyme incorporated under Belgian law.
ESA – Euroclear SA/NV, a société anonyme incorporated under Belgian law.
Euroclear System – the clearance and settlement system for internationally traded securities operated by or for us
under contract. This includes all services we offer in respect of securities held or recorded in any Account as set forth in
the Terms and Conditions.
New Global Note – a security issued in the form of a global certificate which refers to our records and/or the records of
Clearstream Banking S.A. (‘Clearstream’) to determine the total remaining indebtedness of the issuer as determined
from time to time (the issue outstanding amount).
New Safekeeping Structure – a security where the relevant certificate is held in our vaults and/or the vaults of
Clearstream as safekeeper and where the registered owner is our nominee company or a Clearstream nominee.
Non-Deposit Account – a memorandum account that we maintain in your name for the purpose of recording
information and providing services in respect of entitlements that are not held in the Euroclear System and that may be
registered or recorded in your, or your designee’s, name or otherwise held directly by you or your designee.
Operating Procedures – the operating procedures established by us in accordance with Section 3 as may be amended
or supplemented from time to time.
Other Settlement System – any entity operating a system for the holding of securities or the settlement of securities
transactions.
Participant – you and any other entity, which has entered into an agreement to participate in the Euroclear System as a
Participant under the Terms and Conditions and which has provided other documentation in the form required by us,
including those in connection with the operation of its Securities Clearance Account and Cash Account.
The term ‘Participant’ shall also include those using the Euroclear System on a temporary basis in accordance with the
Operating Procedures (‘Temporary Participants’), but only for the period during which (and the circumstances under
which) they are permitted by the Operating Procedures to use the Euroclear System.
Securities Clearance Account – a securities account opened in connection with the Euroclear System by us, on our
books, in your name.
Securities ‘held in the Euroclear System’ – refers to securities credited to a Securities Clearance Account or
otherwise held in the Euroclear System pursuant to Section 4(e).
Securities Loss – has the meaning as described in Section 17(a).

April 2014

Page 3

EXE30006

Exhibit E-3

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Terms and Conditions governing use of Euroclear

Settlement Currency – has the meaning as described in Section 16(d).
Specialised Depository – has the meaning as described in Section 4(c).
Terms and Conditions – these Terms and Conditions as supplemented by the Operating Procedures, as the same
may be amended or supplemented pursuant to Section 19.
Transit Account – an account opened in connection with the Euroclear System by us on our books in your name, as
further described in the Operating Procedures.

2.

Securities Clearance Accounts and Cash Accounts

Except as otherwise agreed in writing between you and us, we will open a Securities Clearance Account and a related
Cash Account for you. You may open additional Securities Clearance Accounts and related Cash Accounts with our
consent.
It is our and your intention that Securities Clearance Accounts are:
i.
ii.
iii.

at all times located and maintained for all purposes at our registered office in Belgium
governed by the Terms and Conditions
governed solely by Belgian law for all purposes including, without limitation, asset protection.

You acknowledge that we may from time to time receive operational support from one or more of our offices outside
Belgium. Such support does not change in any way the location of any Securities Clearance Account.

3.

Operating Procedures

The Operating Procedures have been established for the Euroclear System. The Operating Procedures, which are
supplemental to and constitute an integral part of the Terms and Conditions, set forth detailed rules and procedures for
the functioning of the Euroclear System.
In the event of any conflict between the Operating Procedures and these Terms and Conditions, the latter shall prevail.

4.

Holding of securities; terms of custody

(a) Belgian Law – The following Belgian legal texts apply to the extent applicable to securities held in the Euroclear
System:
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.
v.

the coordinated Royal Decree No. 62 dated November 10, 1967 on the Deposit of Fungible Financial
Instruments and the Settlement of Transactions involving such Instruments (the ‘Royal Decree’)
the Law dated January 2, 1991 related to the Belgian public debt
the Law dated July 22, 1991 related to commercial papers and certificates of deposit
the Companies Code
other applicable Belgian legislation providing for a regime of fungibility, as the case may be and as the same
may be amended, supplemented or superseded from time to time.

The Terms and Conditions have effect as supplemented by the provisions of the Royal Decree and other applicable
Belgian legislation.
Each Participant agrees that securities of any issue held in the Euroclear System on its behalf may be treated by us as
fungible with all other securities of the same issue which are on deposit with us subject to the Royal Decree and other
applicable Belgian legislation.
You have no right to any specific securities certificates for securities held in the Euroclear System, but are, instead,
entitled, subject to the Terms and Conditions, to transfer (by book entry), to deliver or to repossess from us an amount

April 2014

Page 4

EXE30007

Exhibit E-3

Terms and Conditions governing use of Euroclear

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

of securities of the issue equivalent to the amount credited to your Securities Clearance Account, without regard to the
certificate numbers of the securities certificates.
Our obligation to you with respect to such securities will be limited to effecting such a transfer, delivery or repossession.
(b) Where we hold securities – Securities held in the Euroclear System will be held with us except that:
i.

we may hold securities with any Depository in accordance with arrangements requiring such Depository to
hold such securities either:
(y)
(z)

ii.
iii.

in its own vaults
with any subcustodian in conformity with the practice of such Depository or, directly or indirectly
through such a subcustodian, with any Other Settlement System (such subcustodian or Other
Settlement System to be approved by us) and upon such terms and conditions as may be customary
for such subcustodian or Other Settlement System (or upon such other terms and conditions as may
be approved by us), it being understood that any securities so deposited or held by us are to be
carried in a customers’ securities account of us with such Depository.

any Other Settlement System with which securities are held may, in turn, redeposit or hold securities with one
or more subcustodians or Depositories used by it without the requirement of our approval
securities may from time to time be in transit in connection with the operations of the Euroclear System.

(c) Designation of Depositories – We may, with respect to any issue of securities, designate one or more Depositories
for securities of such issue held in the Euroclear System, and may terminate any such designation.
So long as a Depository is so acting with respect to any such issue of securities, it will be a ‘Specialised Depository’ for
such issue. The designation of a Depository as a Specialised Depository will not preclude securities from being held
with any subcustodian or Other Settlement System pursuant to Section 4(b)(i) or (ii).
We will give periodic notices to you of any Specialised Depositories for the various issues of securities.
(d) Securities held in the Euroclear System – Unless otherwise provided in the Operating Procedures:
i.

a security will be deemed to be held in the Euroclear System if it is either:
(w)
(x)

(y)
(z)

ii.

credited to a Securities Clearance Account
physically received by a Depository for credit to a Securities Clearance Account, unless it may be
refused by the Depository initially receiving the security for deposit, as not being in the form, or for
not satisfying any of the prescribed conditions
tendered to us by an Other Settlement System for credit to a Securities Clearance Account and the
prescribed conditions, with respect to the acceptance of such tender by us, have been satisfied
debited from a Securities Clearance Account pending physical delivery unless the risk of loss with
respect to such delivery has passed to the intended recipient in accordance with the Operating
Procedures.

a security held in the Euroclear System will (subject to any adjustments contemplated by the Operating
Procedures) be deemed to be held by the holder of the Securities Clearance Account:
(v)
(w)
(x)
(y)
(z)

to which it is credited
for the credit to which it was physically received by a Depository unless it may be refused
for the credit to which it was tendered to us by an Other Settlement System
from which it was debited pending physical delivery until the risk of loss with respect to such physical
delivery has passed to the intended recipient in accordance with the Operating Procedures
from which it was debited pending the tender of such security to an Other Settlement System.

(e) Securities held in Non-Deposit Accounts – We may offer services in relation to securities in respect of which
information is recorded on a Non-Deposit Account as described in the Operating Procedures.
For the avoidance of doubt, securities in respect of which information is recorded on a Non-Deposit Account are not
securities ‘held in the Euroclear System’ within the meaning of the Terms and Conditions.

April 2014

Page 5

EXE30008

Exhibit E-3

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Terms and Conditions governing use of Euroclear

You will not have any right to receive from us securities in respect of which information is recorded on a Non-Deposit
Account and we will have no obligation to effect the transfer or delivery of such securities except, insofar as may be set
forth in the Operating Procedures, an obligation to relay instructions with respect to such transfer or delivery, and we will
have no liability with respect thereto.

5.

Payments with respect to securities

(a) All payments of principal, premium, interest or dividends we receive with respect to securities credited to any
Securities Clearance Accounts will be distributed to the holders of such Securities Clearance Accounts on the basis of
the amounts of such securities credited thereto, in the manner and on such dates as may be specified in the Operating
Procedures.
(b) We will take the steps as described in the Operating Procedures to have notice of any due date of any payment with
respect to:
i.
ii.

any security credited to any Securities Clearance Account upon such security’s maturity
any coupons pertaining to any such security.

If we have such notice, we will instruct each Depository to take such steps as are required to receive such payment.
(c) We will take such steps as described in the Operating Procedures to have notice of any call for redemption in whole
or in part of any issue of securities credited to any Securities Clearance Account. In such a case, we will (except as
otherwise provided in the Operating Procedures):
i.
ii.
iii.

for a redemption in part, in such manner as we deem fair and appropriate, determine to which Securities
Clearance Accounts, and in what amounts, such securities to be so redeemed will be allocated
notify each holder of such a Securities Clearance Account of the amount of securities standing to such
Account’s credit which are to be redeemed
unless contrary instructions are received from the holder of such a Securities Clearance Account in
accordance with the Operating Procedures, subject to rules and practices of any Other Settlement System,
take such steps (or instruct a Depository to take such steps) as are required to receive such payment.

(d) We will take such steps as may be specified in the Operating Procedures with respect to payments in relation to
securities in respect of which information is recorded on a Non-Deposit Account.

6.

Effecting transactions

(a) Transactions between Participants, and transactions between Participants and non-Participants, will be effected in
accordance with the Terms and Conditions, subject, in all events, to:
i.
ii.

sufficient securities standing to the credit of any Securities Clearance Account being available for any debit to
be made to such Securities Clearance Account
sufficient funds or provision for such funds in any Cash Account being available for any debit to be made to
such Cash Account.

(b) If the available securities standing to the credit of a Securities Clearance Account or the available funds or provision
for such funds in a Cash Account to which any debits are to be made in accordance with the Terms and Conditions are
sufficient to permit the carrying out of some but less than all such debits, then, except as otherwise specified in the
Operating Procedures, we may determine, in our sole discretion without liability to any Participant, which debits are to
be so made.

7.

Limitation on effecting transactions

We are not required to effect any transaction (or take any other action) at your demand or upon your instructions
pursuant to the Terms and Conditions:

April 2014

Page 6

EXE30009

Exhibit E-3

Terms and Conditions governing use of Euroclear

i.

to the extent that the same would either:
(y)
(z)

ii.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

violate any applicable law, decree, regulation or order of any government or governmental body or
international regulatory authority (including any court or tribunal)
be contrary to any agreement made between you and us

in such other circumstances as may be specified in the Operating Procedures.

We will not have any liability for any loss or damage suffered by you as a result of the operation of the foregoing.

8.

Receipt of securities

In the case of any receipt at a Depository of securities to be held in the Euroclear System, we will instruct any
Depository to use reasonable efforts not to accept any securities which are not in the form, or which do not satisfy the
conditions, prescribed by the Operating Procedures.
Subject to the foregoing, we accept no liability for losses incurred by you or any other person as a result of the receipt or
acceptance of fraudulent, forged or invalid securities (or securities which are otherwise not freely transferable or
deliverable without encumbrance in any relevant market) for credit to a Securities Clearance Account.

9.

Reversal of entries

We reserve the right to reverse any erroneous credit to, or debit from, any Account and to reverse any conditional credit
or debit if the relevant conditions should not be fulfilled.

10.

Statements to be rendered by Euroclear Bank

We will send to you statements of your operations, at such times and under such conditions and in such ways as may
be specified in the Operating Procedures.
It is your responsibility to reconcile your records with such statements and to inform us and provide evidence of any
error or omission in any statement of (or any accompanying advice with respect to) any Securities Clearance Account or
Cash Account in your name delivered to you pursuant to this section. Failure to do so within 30 calendar days of receipt
of any such statement shall be evidence of your approval of such statement.

11.

Depositories; Other Settlement Systems

(a) We may, from time to time:
i.
ii.
iii.

appoint banks or legal entities (other than Euroclear Bank) as additional depositories (‘Depositories’) for
securities held in the Euroclear System
determine the terms and conditions upon which any Depository shall act
terminate the appointment of any Depository.

(b) We may, from time to time:
i.

ii.
iii.

enter into direct arrangements with Other Settlement Systems under which members of such Other Settlement
Systems may effect transfers by book entry (without physical delivery) to you and you may effect transfers by
book entry (without physical delivery) to members of such Other Settlement Systems
determine the terms and conditions of such arrangements
terminate any such arrangement at any time.

(c) We will have the sole right, to the exclusion of any Participant, to exercise or assert any rights or claims in respect of
the actions or omissions of, or the bankruptcy or insolvency of, any Depository or any Other Settlement System with
which we hold or deposit securities held in the Euroclear System and from whom we receive any securities held in the
April 2014

Page 7

EXE30010

Exhibit E-3

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Terms and Conditions governing use of Euroclear

Euroclear System, and deposited therewith or held thereby, and any amounts received by such Depository or Other
Settlement System in respect of such securities.
(d) We will provide you with notice of the appointment or termination of any Depository or Other Settlement System, and
of the designation, location or change in location of any Depository or Other Settlement System.

12.

Duties and liabilities of Euroclear Bank

(a) Duties we undertake to perform – We undertake to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically
set forth in the Terms and Conditions.
In the absence of negligence or wilful misconduct on our part, we are not liable towards you, whether for contractual
liability (responsabilité contractuelle/contractuele aansprakelijkheid) or liability in tort (responsabilité extracontractuelle/buitencontractuele aansprakelijkheid), with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by us when
providing the services contemplated in the Terms and Conditions.
In addition, in the absence of gross negligence or wilful misconduct on our part, we are not liable towards you, whether
for contractual liability (responsabilité contractuelle/contractuele aansprakelijkheid) or liability in tort (responsabilité
extra-contractuelle/buitencontractuele aansprakelijkheid), for indirect losses such as, but not limited to, loss of business
or loss of profit or for unforeseeable losses.
ESA may from time to time provide us with certain services in accordance with arrangements between us and ESA. We
remain solely responsible towards you for the acts of ESA. You agree that ESA does not owe you any duty of care in
relation to the operation of the arrangements, and, accordingly, agree that you will not take any action against ESA (or
any person for whom ESA is liable) to recover damages, compensation or payment or remedy of any other nature in
respect of any acts or omissions or events which occur while such arrangements are in operation. Furthermore, you
agree that you have no other rights against ESA in connection with such arrangements.
(b) Authenticity of instructions – We will take action, as set forth in the Operating Procedures, to verify the
authenticity of any instructions given to us by you or any other person in connection with the Euroclear System. Our
actions or omissions as regards any instruction, document or other instrument, the authenticity of which has been so
verified or which we believe to be genuine, are considered as duly performed by us and ratified by you. You expressly
waive any claims whatsoever towards us in connection with such actions or omissions.
(c) Force Majeure – We are not liable for any action taken, or any omission to take any action required to be taken
hereunder or otherwise to fulfil our obligations hereunder (including without limitation the failure to receive or deliver
securities or the failure to receive or make any payment), in the event and to the extent that the taking of such action or
such omission arises out of, or is caused by, war, insurrection, riot, civil commotion, act of God, accident, fire, water
damage, explosion, mechanical breakdown, computer or system failure or other failure of equipment, failure or
malfunctioning of any communications media for whatever reason (whether or not such media are made available to
you by us), interruption (whether partial or total) of power supplies or other utility or service, strike or other stoppage
(whether partial or total) of labour, any law, decree, regulation or order of any government or governmental body or
international regulatory authority (including any court or tribunal) or any other cause (whether similar or dissimilar to any
of the foregoing) whatsoever beyond our reasonable control.
(d) Additional limitations of liability – Without limiting the generality of the foregoing but without prejudice to our
obligations under Section 17, we are not liable for the acts or omissions of (or the bankruptcy or insolvency of) any
Depository or subcustodian or any Other Settlement System or any carrier transporting securities (provided we selected
such carrier with due care and that the appropriate insurance has been obtained in respect of securities in possession
of such carrier).
If, however, as a result of any act or omission of, or the bankruptcy or insolvency of, any Depository or subcustodian or
any Other Settlement System or any carrier transporting securities selected by us, you in the capacity as holder of a
Securities Clearance Account suffer any loss or liability, we will take such steps in order to effect a recovery as we
deem appropriate under all the circumstances (including without limitation the bringing and settling of legal
proceedings). Unless we are liable for such loss or liability by virtue of our negligence or wilful misconduct, we will
charge to you the amount of any cost or expense in effecting, or attempting to effect, such recovery.
Notwithstanding the above, we are liable towards Eurosystem member national central banks for the acts or omissions
of the agents which might operate our accounts opened directly with Other Settlement Systems, but only to the extent
April 2014

Page 8

EXE30011

Exhibit E-3

Terms and Conditions governing use of Euroclear

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

that such acts or omissions cause Eurosystem member national central banks to suffer any loss or liability linked to
securities that they hold for purposes of monetary policy operations or intra-day credit operations.
(e) We make no investigation with respect to and are not liable for any of the following:
i.
ii.
iii.

the acts and omissions of (or the bankruptcy, insolvency, creditworthiness or status of) any issuer, any entity
acting for such issuer, or any guarantor of securities made eligible for services within the Euroclear System
the validity or binding effect of any such security or any guarantee thereof or any related document
any other similar matter.

(f) We are not liable for any loss resulting from any of the following:
i.
ii.

a failure by you, another Participant or any other person to comply with any procedures or requirements
specified in the Terms and Conditions
actions we take in accordance with the Terms and Conditions.

(g) Where you request physical delivery of securities credited to a Securities Clearance Account maintained for you, our
responsibility in respect of the delivery of such securities is as set forth in the Operating Procedures.
(h) We are authorised to sign on your behalf any declaration, affidavit or certificate of ownership, to the extent we may
legally do so, which may be required from time to time and in doing so, to rely fully upon any information regarding you
or the ownership of such securities which may have been provided to us by you or on your behalf.
(i) We may be a Participant and, in that capacity, we will have the same rights, duties and liabilities as if we were not the
operator of the Euroclear System.

13.

Fees and expenses

You will be charged such fees, and for such expenses and disbursements, as shall be specified from time to time in
accordance with the Operating Procedures. Such charged amounts will be debited from your Cash Account(s).

14.

Termination of participation; resignation of Participants

(a) We may at any time terminate your participation in the Euroclear System by giving you at least 30 calendar days
notice, provided that we may effect such termination upon notice effective immediately either if:
i.

any of the following events shall occur:
(w)
(x)
(y)

ii.

your liquidation or bankruptcy or initiation of any proceedings with respect thereto
your application for composition with your creditors, whether in or out of court, or for deferment of
your debts
attachment or execution upon or against any of your assets or property

you no longer meet any of the admission criteria set out in the Operating Procedures and your continued
participation in the Euroclear System could be materially prejudicial to the interests of the Euroclear System,
Euroclear Bank or other Participants generally.

(b) You may resign from the Euroclear System by giving us notice. Such resignation will be effective upon the date upon
which all your transactions with respect to any Account have been settled, provided that from and after the time that we
receive such notice we may decline to accept any instruction or give effect to any transaction which would result in any
credit to any Account in your name.
(c) The participation of any Temporary Participant in the Euroclear System shall, in addition, terminate as provided in
the Operating Procedures.
(d) Upon the effectiveness of any termination or resignation, or as soon thereafter as is reasonably practicable, we will
effect the return to you of the amounts you hold in your Cash Account(s) and securities credited to your Securities
Clearance Account(s), provided, however, that we, without affecting any other rights we may have, have the right to:

April 2014

Page 9

EXE30012

Exhibit E-3

i.
ii.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Terms and Conditions governing use of Euroclear

set off against or retain from such amounts to be so returned any amounts which are due to, or which may
become due to, us from you
retain securities held in such Securities Clearance Account(s) to provide for the payment in full of any amounts
which are due to, or which may become due to, us from you.

No such termination or resignation shall affect any right or liability arising out of events (including any Securities Loss)
occurring, or securities delivered, prior to its effectiveness.
(e) We are not liable to you or any other person as a result of any termination or any other action taken pursuant to this
Section 14.

15.

Certain responsibilities and liabilities of Participants

(a) You must:
i.

ii.

comply with any law, decree, regulation, or order of any government or governmental body or international
regulatory authority (including any court or tribunal) applicable to you or your participation in the Euroclear
System and any contract, agreement or other instrument binding upon you
indemnify us upon demand against any loss, claim, liability or expense, including reasonable legal and
accountancy fees, asserted against or imposed upon us (other than any such loss, claim, liability or expense
caused by our negligence or wilful misconduct) as a result of either:
(v)

(w)
(x)
(y)

(z)

the use of services provided in respect of a Non-Deposit Account, and arising out of or caused by
the operation of any law, decree, regulation or order of any government or governmental body or
international regulatory authority (including any court or tribunal)
the violation or breach by you of any such law, decree, regulation, order, contract, agreement or
other instrument
your negligence, wilful misconduct or fraud
the holding by you of any securities in the Euroclear System (or the receipt of payments or the
effecting of any transaction with respect thereto) and arising out of or caused by the operation of any
law, decree, regulation or order of any government or governmental body or international regulatory
authority (including any court or tribunal)
any actions, proceedings, claims or demands (including any legal actions) being taken or asserted
against any Depository or Other Settlement System as a result of us providing the services to you
pursuant to the Terms and Conditions.

(b) You are liable if any security received at any Depository or through an Other Settlement System for credit to any of
your Securities Clearance Account(s) or Transit Account(s) is proven at any time to be forged, fraudulent or invalid (or
otherwise not freely transferable and deliverable without encumbrance in any market which we determine to be relevant
under the circumstances).
We shall, upon notice to you, debit from such Securities Clearance Account or Transit Account (as applicable, if the
securities have not at the time been credited to such Securities Clearance Account or Transit Account), an amount of
securities of the same issue upon discovery that securities so received are forged, fraudulent or invalid (or are not freely
transferable and deliverable without encumbrance in any such market).
Our records as to which Securities Clearance Account or Transit Account securities received were initially to be credited
will be sufficient evidence of the matters referred to therein in the event of controversy.
(c) Debit balances or overdrafts in Securities Clearance Accounts are prohibited in the Euroclear System.
If a shortfall of securities is recorded, at any time, with respect to securities of any issue in your Securities Clearance
Account you must immediately deliver for credit (or otherwise cause to be credited) a sufficient amount of securities of
such issue to such Securities Clearance Account to eliminate such shortfall.
If within 7 Business Days, or a lesser time as may be necessary, you do not deliver (or cause to be credited) such
securities, we may (but, in our discretion, need not) purchase, for your account and at your sole expense, such amount
of such securities for credit to such Securities Clearance Account, such purchase to be in such markets, in such manner
and for such consideration as we shall reasonably determine.
April 2014

Page 10

EXE30013

Exhibit E-3

Terms and Conditions governing use of Euroclear

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(d) You are responsible for notifying us in writing, with appropriate supporting documents, of any change in your legal
capacity or in the scope or validity of the signing authorities of your representatives. We have no obligation to make any
inquiry or investigation with respect to such changes.
(e) Part III of the Operating Procedures (Rights and Responsibilities) further describes certain other rights and liabilities
which apply to you when participating in the Euroclear System.

16.

Special rules applicable to Cash Accounts

(a) Unity of account and right of set off – Except as otherwise provided by law or otherwise agreed in writing between
you and us with respect to any specified account, all Cash Accounts and other current accounts with us in Belgium
opened in your name are part of one single and indivisible current account of which they are mere subdivisions for
bookkeeping purposes.
This is the case even if:
i.
ii.

such subdivisions are maintained in different currencies, earn credit interest or are charged debit interest at
different rates
the transactions therein are reported in different statements of account.

Consequently, we have the option, among others, of transferring the balance of any subdivision of your current account
that is in credit to any subdivision that is in debit or vice versa, at any time and without prior notice.
Transfers under this Section 16(a) between subdivisions of your current account denominated in different currencies
will, unless provided otherwise in the Operating Procedures, be effected on the basis of either:
i.
ii.

the rate of exchange of the relevant currencies in relation to the Euro established at the daily fixing by the
European Central Bank on the last Business Day prior to the transfer
if the rate of exchange of a currency in relation to the Euro is not fixed by the European Central Bank as
aforesaid, on the basis of a quote obtained from a source we consider reliable.

(b) Except as otherwise provided by law or otherwise agreed between you and us in writing with respect to any specified
account, the overall credit balance of your single and indivisible current account may be set off by us at any time and
without prior notice against your debts to us that have not been paid when due.
(c) We will carry out instructions to make payments for your account in accordance with the Operating Procedures.
(d) Holding of different Settlement Currencies – We may, following customary practice, hold any currency in which
any subdivision of your current account is denominated, on deposit in and effect transactions relating thereto through an
account with one of our offices or another bank in the country where such currency is the lawful currency or in other
countries where such currency may be lawfully held on deposit (‘Settlement Currency’).
We are not liable for any loss or damage arising from the applicability of any law or regulation, now or in the future in
effect, or from the occurrence of any event, which may affect the transferability, convertibility, or availability of a
Settlement Currency in the countries where such accounts are maintained.
In no event are we obliged to substitute another currency for a Settlement Currency whose transferability, convertibility
or availability has been affected by such law, regulation or event.
To the extent that any such law, regulation or event imposes a cost or charge upon us in relation to the transferability,
convertibility or availability of any such Settlement Currency, such cost or charge will be for your account.
(e) Transactions in a Settlement Currency shall be subject to the regulations laid down by the relevant exchange control
authorities.
(f) Interest rates – We determine the terms and rates of interest applicable to credit balances in the various
subdivisions of your current account and the terms and rates of interest to be charged on debit balances in the various
subdivisions of your current account, and shall have the right to modify such terms and rates at any time.

April 2014

Page 11

EXE30014

Exhibit E-3

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Terms and Conditions governing use of Euroclear

Unless otherwise agreed, debit balances in any subdivision of your current account and interest thereon will be required
to be offset forthwith by a corresponding credit to such subdivision of such current account by you.
(g) Delay in the processing of payment instructions – Except in the case of negligence or wilful misconduct, we are
not liable for delays in carrying out your payment instructions. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in the
event that we use the services of another bank or Other Settlement System (whether or not selected by us) for carrying
out payment instructions we receive from you, we are not liable to you if such payment instructions, although
transmitted correctly to that other bank or Other Settlement System, are not carried out or are carried out incorrectly by
the latter.
In the event that a delay in the carrying out of a payment instruction is caused by our negligence, our liability will not
exceed an interest equivalent, determined in accordance with the Operating Procedures, for the period from the day
when the payment should have been carried out, but for our negligence, until the day when it is actually carried out
(excluding any portion of such period during which we cannot carry out such instructions as a result of any event
referred to in Section 12(c) and (d)). This is provided, however, that if you fail to report the delay to us within 10 calendar
days from the date when the payment should, but for our negligence, have been made, the relevant period shall not
exceed 10 calendar days.

17.

Securities losses

(a) Loss sharing – The following is without prejudice to our obligation to take action under Section 17(c) or 17(e) or to
any liability that we may have to compensate you for negligence or wilful misconduct on our part.
If all or any portion of the securities of a particular issue held in the Euroclear System is lost or otherwise becomes
unavailable for delivery (such loss or unavailability being referred to as a ‘Securities Loss’), then, subject to the last
sentence of this Section 17(a), the reduction in the amount of securities of such issue held in the Euroclear System
arising therefrom will be shared by those holding such issue in the Euroclear System at the opening of the Business
Day on which we will make a determination that such Securities Loss has occurred (or if such day is not a Business
Day, at the opening of business on the immediately preceding Business Day).
Such sharing is to be in proportion with the amount of securities of such issue so held at the time of such determination
and will be effected by means of debits from Securities Clearance Accounts to which securities of such issue are
credited at such time. This is subject to appropriate adjustment in the event that any portion of the securities of such
issue held in the Euroclear System is for any reason not then credited to Securities Clearance Accounts.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any reduction in the amount of securities available for delivery arising solely from any
Securities Loss with respect to securities held with any Depository or Other Settlement System shall be shared at the
time as of which such reduction is attributed to us.
For the purpose of this subsection:
i.
ii.

securities of a particular issue called for redemption in part and allocated to Securities Clearance Accounts
under Section 5(c)(i) shall be considered to be a separate issue
we may deem a security of a particular issue to be lost or unavailable for delivery either:
(v)
(w)
(x)
(y)
(z)

if such security is mutilated, lost, stolen or destroyed (or if for any other reason cannot be delivered
or is unavailable for delivery)
if such security proves to be forged, fraudulent or invalid (in whole or in part)
if such security is nationalised, expropriated or seized
if for any reason such security is not freely transferable or deliverable without encumbrance in any
market which we determine to be relevant under the circumstances
to the extent of any shortfall which has not been resolved under Section 15(c).

Notwithstanding the foregoing, we will not effect any debits with respect to a Securities Loss so long as we determine
that we will be able to replace or recover the securities which are the subject of such Securities Loss in sufficient time
and in a manner to permit the efficient operation of the Euroclear System, it being understood that the foregoing shall
not require us to take any action to replace any security.

April 2014

Page 12

EXE30015

Exhibit E-3

Terms and Conditions governing use of Euroclear

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(b) Claims reflected in a Non-Deposit Account – Simultaneously with any debit from your Securities Clearance
Account under Section 17(a), we will establish a Non-Deposit Account in your favour to reflect any claims, contingent or
otherwise, which you may have against us as a result of either:
i.
ii.

any possible recovery of securities or cash which we may effect under Section 17(c) or 17(e)
any other liability arising from the Securities Loss that we may have to you under the Terms and Conditions, it
being understood that the establishment of any such Non-Deposit Account will not increase our liabilities
under the Terms and Conditions.

We will from time to time report the status of such Non-Deposit Account to you together with a general description of
any action that we have taken or propose to take, under Section 17(c) or 17(e). We will not be required to take
instructions from you or any other entity to effect any transaction with respect to such Non-Deposit Account.
(c) Recovery of securities – In the case of any Securities Loss with respect to any issue of securities which arises
under circumstances in which any Depository, any Participant, any Other Settlement System, any subcustodian, or any
other person is or may be legally liable (or if any other remedy may be available for making good the Securities Loss),
we will take such steps to recover the securities which are the subject of such Securities Loss or damages (or to obtain
the benefits of any such other remedy) as we reasonably deem appropriate under all the circumstances (including
without limitation the bringing and settling of legal proceedings).
Unless we are liable for such Securities Loss due to our negligence or wilful misconduct, we will charge those sharing
the reduction in securities arising out of such Securities Loss (proportionately in accordance with the amount of such
sharing) the amount of any cost or expense incurred in connection with any action taken under Section 17(c). This
Section 17(c) is not intended to limit the generality of the last paragraph of Section 12(d).
(d) Any cash amounts or securities which we recover in respect of a Securities Loss relating to a particular issue of
securities or for which we are liable in connection with a Securities Loss will be credited to the appropriate Cash
Accounts or Securities Clearance Accounts of those sharing the reduction in the amount of securities of such issue
arising from such Securities Loss under Section 17(a).
(e) Securities loss due to mutilation, loss, theft or destruction – If a Securities Loss arises due to the mutilation,
loss, theft or destruction of securities and it is necessary in order to obtain the reissuance of such securities that we
obtain and deliver a security, indemnity or other like instrument, then:
i.

ii.

we will obtain and deliver such security, indemnity or other like instrument and, unless we are liable for such
Securities Loss by virtue of our negligence or wilful misconduct, we may charge any related cost or expense to
Participants affected by such Securities Loss, proportionately in accordance with the amount of securities
subject to such Securities Loss
if we do not elect to proceed under clause (i), we will:
(y)
(z)

notify each Participant affected by such Securities Loss
to the extent practicable and if so instructed by any such Participant, obtain and deliver on behalf of
and, unless we are liable for such Securities Loss by virtue of our negligence or wilful misconduct, at
the cost and expense of those giving such instructions (proportionately in accordance with the
amounts of such securities), such security, indemnity or other instrument, but, unless we are liable
as aforesaid, only upon receiving satisfactory security, indemnity or other like instrument with respect
to the cost and our expenses arising therefrom.

Nothing in this Section 17(e) requires us to issue any security, indemnity or other like instrument.
(f) Our management of a securities loss – If as a result of the operation of Section 17(a) or 17(d) there stands to the
credit of one or more Securities Clearance Accounts a fraction of the smallest deliverable definitive certificate of an
issue, we are authorised, in order to avoid any fractional security being credited, to sell and debit from (or to purchase
and credit to) such Securities Clearance Accounts securities of such issue in an amount sufficient to eliminate such
fractions. Any such sale or purchase will be for the accounts of the holders of such Securities Clearance Accounts,
proportionately with respective amounts of such debits or credits, and may be made in the markets, manner and for
such consideration as we reasonably determine.
(g) If a Securities Loss results from a failure to properly maintain the Issuer Memorandum Account (as defined in the
Operating Procedures) in accordance with Section 12(a) for securities eligible as collateral in the Eurosystem and
issued in New Global Note form or held in the New Safekeeping Structure:
April 2014

Page 13

EXE30016

Exhibit E-3

i.

ii.

18.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Terms and Conditions governing use of Euroclear

each Eurosystem member national central bank is excluded from any sharing of the reduction in the amount of
such securities under Section 17(a), but only to the extent that such a national central bank held such
securities for purposes of monetary policy operations or intra-day credit operations
any sharing of the reduction in the amount of such securities under Section 17(a) will be proportionate to the
amount of such securities held by those sharing such reduction after application of Section 17 (g)(i).

Entire agreement; benefit of Terms and Conditions

Except as may be otherwise provided in any separate written agreement with you, the Terms and Conditions set forth
the entire agreement with you for the subject matter hereof.
No customer or other entity or individual for which you may be acting will, in that capacity, have or be entitled to assert
any rights, claims or remedies against us.

19.

Modifications; waivers

The Terms and Conditions including the Operating Procedures may be amended or supplemented at any time upon
notice to you. You will, without prejudice to your rights under Section 14(b), be deemed to have accepted any such
amendment and supplement either:
i.
ii.

effective immediately, in the case of any amendment or supplement not adversely affecting you
effective ten Business Days after you are notified, in the case of any other amendment or supplement.

No failure to exercise a right or power conferred by the Terms and Conditions shall constitute a waiver thereof.

20.

Notices

All notices, requests, demands or other communications from us are deemed to have been received as specified in the
Operating Procedures and sent to the address most recently specified by you as your address for such purpose. All
notices, requests, demands or communications to us are deemed to have been duly given and made when received at
the address, and through the means, set forth in the Operating Procedures.

21.

Maintenance of records; limitation on actions

We accept no responsibility to maintain records with respect to instructions received or transactions carried out five
years from the time such instructions are received or transactions are carried out. Any action, claim or counterclaim by a
holder of an Account based upon any such instruction or transaction is barred upon the expiration of such period of five
years. The running of such period is not to be interrupted or suspended for any reason.

22.

Governing law; jurisdiction; evidence

(a) The Terms and Conditions, any non-contractual obligations arising out of or in connection with the Terms and
Conditions and all disputes arising thereunder or in connection therewith are governed by and construed in accordance
with the laws of Belgium.
For the purposes of the law of 28 April 1999 implementing Directive 98/26/EC on settlement finality in payment and
securities settlement systems and the Royal Decree, the Euroclear System itself, the holding of securities in the
Euroclear System and the transfer of securities and related cash transfers within the Euroclear System are governed
solely by the laws of Belgium.
(b) You submit to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of the competent courts of Brussels for the purposes of any dispute
arising under the Terms and Conditions.

April 2014

Page 14

EXE30017

Exhibit E-3

Terms and Conditions governing use of Euroclear

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

To the extent that you are prohibited by law or regulation to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court, a dispute arising
out of or in connection with the Terms and Conditions may be finally settled under the Rules of Arbitration of the
International Chamber of Commerce by an arbitral tribunal consisting of three arbitrators appointed in accordance with
such Rules.
The place of any such arbitration shall be Brussels, Belgium and the arbitral proceedings shall be in the English
language.
The award of the arbitrators shall be final and enforceable. You waive to the fullest extent permitted under the
applicable law all immunity, whether on the basis of sovereignty or otherwise, in any proceeding hereunder and in any
proceeding to recognise or enforce any judgement or award made by any foreign court or foreign arbitral tribunal in
such a proceeding.
(c) Our own books and records (regardless of the media in, or upon, such books and records are maintained) are
deemed to constitute sufficient evidence of any of your obligations to us and of any facts and events relied upon by us.

April 2014

Page 15

EXE30018

Exhibit E-3

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE30019

Exhibit E-3

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE30020

Exhibit E-4

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

October 2010

Supplementary Terms and
Conditions governing the
Lending and Borrowing of
Securities through Euroclear

©2010 Euroclear Bank SA/NV
1 Boulevard du Roi Albert II, 1210 Brussels,
Belgium – Tel: +32 (0)2 326 1211
www.euroclear.com – RPM Brussels number
0429 875 591 – Euroclear is the marketing
name for the Euroclear System, Euroclear plc,
Euroclear SA/NV and their affiliates.

www.euroclear.com

Reference code

EXE40001

Exhibit E-4

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Notice:
Certain Borrowers of Securities under these Supplementary Terms and Conditions may be broker-dealers regulated under the U.S. Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; pursuant to regulations applicable to such broker-dealers, notice is given that, in the event any such Borrower defaults
on any obligation with respect to any Borrowing, Lenders will not be protected by the U.S. Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970, but will
have recourse only to the guarantee set out in Section 14.

EXE40002

Exhibit E-4

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Table of contents

1.

Definitions ...................................................................................................................... 4

2.

General Terms ................................................................................................................ 5

3.

Automatic Lending ......................................................................................................... 6

4.

Opportunity Lending....................................................................................................... 7

5.

Implementation of Loans ................................................................................................ 7

6.

Loan Recall .................................................................................................................... 7

7.

Automatic Borrowing ..................................................................................................... 8

8.

Opportunity Borrowing ................................................................................................... 8

9.

Implementation of Borrowings; Recall of Borrowings .................................................... 8

10. Reimbursement of Borrowings........................................................................................ 9
11. Cash Distributions Paid on Securities; Redemption ......................................................... 9
12. Non-cash Distributions on Securities .............................................................................. 9
13. Repayment of Securities ................................................................................................ 10
14. Guaranty to Lenders; Remedies against Borrowers ........................................................ 12
15. Rights, Duties and Liabilities of Euroclear Bank ............................................................ 14
16. Fees and Expenses ......................................................................................................... 14
17. Termination; Resignation ............................................................................................... 14

3
EXE40003

Exhibit E-4

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
The following Supplementary Terms and Conditions shall govern the lending and borrowing of
securities through the Securities Lending and Borrowing Program. Capitalized words used herein
to indicate defined terms shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Terms and Conditions
Governing Use of Euroclear unless otherwise defined herein.

1. Definitions

When used herein, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a) ‘Automatic Borrower’ means a Borrower participating in automatic borrowing, as described
in Section 7.
(b) ‘Automatic Lender’ means a Lender participating in automatic lending, as described in
Section 3.
(c) ‘Borrowed Securities’ means securities borrowed by a Borrower pursuant to these
Supplementary Terms and Conditions.
(d) ‘Borrower’ means a Participant which is approved by Euroclear Bank as a Borrower and which
(i) has acknowledged receipt of and agreement to these Supplementary Terms and Conditions,
and
(ii) maintains a credit arrangement satisfactory to Euroclear Bank.
(e) ‘Borrowing’ means any borrowing of securities pursuant to and subject to these Supplementary
Terms and Conditions (including any Non-cash Distribution distributed by an issuer on
Borrowed Securities); different types of Borrowing may be defined, subject to different terms
and conditions, in the Operating Procedures.
(f) ‘Business Day’ has the meaning set forth in the Operating Procedures.
(g) ‘Cash Account’ has the meaning set forth in the Operating Procedures. When referred to herein,
the Cash Account of a Lender means the Cash Account associated with the Securities Clearance
Account to which loaned securities were debited, and the Cash Account of a Borrower means
the Cash Account associated with the Securities Clearance Account to which Borrowed
Securities were credited.
(h) ‘Cash Distribution’ means any interest, dividend or other payment distributed by any issuer,
or any agent on behalf of an issuer, on any issue of securities as to which there are Borrowed
Securities, other than a payment in full or in retirement thereof.
(i) ‘Euroclear Bank’ means Euroclear Bank a société anonyme incorporated under Belgian law.
(j) ‘Euroclear System’ means the clearance and settlement system for internationally traded
securities operated under contract by Euroclear Bank.
(k) ‘Lendable Position’ means the quantity of securities of an issue available for lending
determined as set forth in the Operating Procedures.
(l) ‘Lender’ means a Participant which is approved by Euroclear Bank as a Lender and which
has acknowledged receipt of and agreement to these Supplementary Terms and Conditions.
(m) ‘Loan’ means any loan of securities by a Lender pursuant to and subject to these Supplementary
Terms and Conditions (including any Non-cash Distribution distributed by an issuer on loaned
securities); different types of Loans may be defined, subject to different terms and conditions,
in the Operating Procedures.
(n) ‘Market Value’ of securities on a given Business Day means the market value of such securities
determined by Euroclear Bank in accordance with the Operating Procedures. Any such
determination by Euroclear Bank shall be conclusive and binding on each Lender and Borrower.
4
EXE40004

Exhibit E-4
1. Definitions
(continued)

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
(o) ‘Non-cash Distribution’ means any bonus securities, rights or other entitlements accepted for
deposit in the Euroclear System, distributed by an issuer, or any agent on behalf of an issuer,
on any issue of securities as to which there are Borrowed Securities.
(p) ‘Operating Procedures’ means the Operating Procedures established by Euroclear Bank in
accordance with the Terms and Conditions, as the same may be amended or supplemented
from time to time.
(q) ‘Opportunity Borrower’ means any Borrower making a Borrowing of securities pursuant to
Section 8.
(r) ‘Opportunity Lender’ means any Lender which is not an Automatic Lender.
(s) ‘Record-keeping Account’ means an account to record Borrowings and Loans opened by
Euroclear Bank on its books in the name of each Borrower and each Lender. A Recordkeeping
Account may be divided into different subaccounts to record different types of Borrowings
or Loans, or Borrowings or Loans with different terms, fees, priority allocations, or other
features. Each such subaccount may be named ‘a Record-keeping Account’ but will be
considered for all purposes, except as otherwise set forth in the Operating Procedures, as
being part of one single and indivisible Record-keeping Account as defined herein. When
referred to herein, the Record-keeping Account of a Lender means the Record-keeping Account
associated with the Securities Clearance Account to which loaned securities were debited, and
the Record-keeping Account of a Borrower means the Record-keeping Account associated
with the Securities Clearance Account to which Borrowed Securities were credited.
(t) ‘Repayment Date’ has the meaning set forth in Section 13 hereof.
(u) ‘Requested Recall’ means the quantity of loaned securities which in accordance with the
Operating Procedures is required to be returned to a Lender.
(v) ‘Securities Lending and Borrowing Program’ means the program for securities lending and
borrowing established under these Supplementary Terms and Conditions.
(w) ‘Supplementary Terms and Conditions’ means these Supplementary Terms and Conditions
Governing the Lending and Borrowing of Securities through Euroclear, as the same may be
amended or supplemented from time to time.
(x) ‘Terms and Conditions’ means the Terms and Conditions Governing Use of Euroclear, as the
same may be amended or supplemented from time to time.

2. General Terms

(a) The categories of securities eligible for lending and borrowing and the types of Loans and
Borrowings that may be made pursuant to these Supplementary Terms and Conditions shall
be as set forth in the Operating Procedures.
(b) Each Lender and Borrower shall designate, in accordance with the Operating Procedures, one
or more Securities Clearance Accounts as being available for the lending and/or borrowing of
securities pursuant to these Supplementary Terms and Conditions. Euroclear Bank shall open
a separate Record-keeping Account with respect to each Securities Clearance Account so
designated, it being understood that if a Participant designates a single Securities Clearance
Account as being available for both lending and borrowing, Euroclear Bank will open only one
Record-keeping Account with respect to such Securities Clearance Account. It is understood
that a Record-keeping Account is not a Securities Clearance Account and shall be used solely
for the purpose of recording Loans by Lenders and Borrowings by Borrowers.

5
EXE40005

Exhibit E-4
2. General Terms

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
(c) Each Lender covenants to Euroclear Bank that

(continued)

(i) it will have the right and will have received all requisite approvals necessary to lend all
securities made available by it for lending and
(ii) it will not make any securities available for lending unless it is the beneficial owner of
such securities or has obtained where necessary the prior consent of its customer or other
person who is the beneficial owner of such securities to make such securities available
for lending. Each Borrower covenants to Euroclear Bank that it will have received all
requisite approvals necessary to borrow all Borrowed Securities.
(d) These Supplementary Terms and Conditions are supplementary to the Terms and Conditions
and, accordingly, except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the rights, duties, responsibilities
and liabilities of Euroclear Bank and each Lender and Borrower and the limitations on such
rights, duties, responsibilities and liabilities shall be governed by and determined in accordance
with the Terms and Conditions.
All references to Securities Clearance Accounts and to holders of Securities Clearance Accounts
in the Terms and Conditions shall, unless the context otherwise requires, be deemed to include
Record-keeping Accounts and holders of Record-keeping Accounts.
In the event of any conflict between these Supplementary Terms and Conditions and the Terms
and Conditions, the Terms and Conditions shall prevail. However, in the event of any conflict
between these Supplementary Terms and Conditions and the Operating Procedures, these
Supplementary Terms and Conditions shall prevail.
(e) Lenders and Borrowers shall submit all notices, instructions and other communications
contemplated hereby, including any withdrawals or modifications of such notices, instructions
and communications, to Euroclear Bank by the means and in accordance with the formats and
timings set forth in the Operating Procedures.
(f) Euroclear Bank will not reveal the name of any Borrower of any particular issue of securities
to any Lender of such securities or the name of any Lender of any particular issue of
securities to any Borrower of such securities.
(g) In furnishing the guaranty pursuant to Section 14, Euroclear Bank acts solely in its capacity
as a bank and not in its capacity as operator of the Euroclear System.
(h) A distribution or right on or with respect to any Borrowed Security other than a Cash
Distribution or a Non-cash Distribution shall not, except as otherwise provided in the Operating
Procedures, be included in any Loan or give rise to any rights of any Lender under these
Supplementary Terms and Conditions.

3. Automatic Lending

Any Lender may advise Euroclear Bank that it wishes to be an Automatic Lender with respect to
one or more of its Securities Clearance Accounts. Any options as to lending securities through the
Securities Lending and Borrowing Program that are available from time to time, are set forth in
the Operating Procedures. Euroclear Bank will determine in its sole discretion whether a Lender
may be an Automatic Lender with respect to each account and option it elects.
Once a Lender has received advice from Euroclear Bank that it may be an Automatic Lender
with respect to a particular Securities Clearance Account, securities standing to the credit of such
account shall in accordance with the Operating Procedures be available for lending.

6
EXE40006

Exhibit E-4
4. Opportunity Lending

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
(a) If Euroclear Bank determines in accordance with the Operating Procedures that the total of
the Lendable Positions of securities of a particular issue for all Automatic Lenders will not be
sufficient to fill all requests to borrow and to recall Loans of any type of securities, Euroclear
Bank will, for any such issue, determine, in its sole discretion:
(i) whether to contact any Opportunity Lender to determine whether such Opportunity Lender
is willing to make securities of such issue available for lending;
(ii) which Opportunity Lender(s) to contact; and
(iii) in which order any Opportunity Lender(s) will be contacted.
Euroclear Bank will contact any such Opportunity Lender on each occasion before arranging
a Loan of any type for such Opportunity Lender.
(b) Euroclear Bank may at any time in its sole discretion cause one or more Loans of any type by
an Opportunity Lender to be reimbursed in whole or in part, in accordance with the Operating
Procedures.

5. Implementation
of Loans

(a) A Loan by a Lender shall be effected by Euroclear Bank by debiting to the Securities
Clearance Account of the Lender, and simultaneously crediting to the related Record-keeping
Account, the quantity of such securities, or as otherwise specified in the Operating Procedures.
A reimbursement of a Loan shall be effected by debiting to the Record-keeping Account
of the Lender and simultaneously crediting to the related Securities Clearance Account, the
quantity of such securities, or as otherwise specified in the Operating Procedures.
(b) Euroclear Bank shall determine, in accordance with the Operating Procedures, the types and
amounts of the Loans of each issue by each Lender.

6. Loan Recall

All Requested Recalls of a particular issue shall be taken into account, in accordance with the
Operating Procedures, before any requests to borrow securities of such issue. If all Requested
Recalls of a particular issue of securities cannot be granted at any time, the order of granting
Requested Recalls shall be determined in accordance with the Operating Procedures. Any Requested
Recall not granted in full (revised to take account of any subsequent changes in the Requested
Recall) will be re-attempted in accordance with the Operating Procedures until either all the
recalled securities are returned to the Lender, or the Loan is dealt with pursuant to Section 14.
In addition to such attempts to effect a Requested Recall, Euroclear Bank will attempt to determine
whether sufficient additional securities may be available during the Securities Lending and Borrowing
Process next succeeding the determination that a Requested Recall was not granted in full. If it
determines that sufficient additional securities are unlikely to be available, or if having determined
that such securities may be available, they do not become available, Euroclear Bank will make a
mandatory recall of Borrowed Securities in an amount sufficient to permit the Requested Recall
to be granted. Such Requested Recall (unless it has been previously granted as described above)
will be effected in accordance with the procedures and timings set forth in the Operating Procedures.

7
EXE40007

Exhibit E-4
7. Automatic
Borrowing

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
Any Borrower may advise Euroclear Bank that it wishes to be an Automatic Borrower with respect
to one or more of its Securities Clearance Accounts. Any options as to borrowing securities through
the Securities Lending and Borrowing Program that are available from time to time are set forth
in the Operating Procedures. Euroclear Bank will determine in its sole discretion whether a
Borrower may be an Automatic Borrower with respect to each account and option it elects.
Upon despatch of notice to a Borrower that it may be an Automatic Borrower with respect to a
Securities Clearance Account, Euroclear Bank will determine for such Securities Clearance Account
at such times and in such manner as are set forth in the Operating Procedures, whether the quantity
of securities of any issue for which the Borrower is an Automatic Borrower, standing to the credit
of such Securities Clearance Account, will be insufficient to permit the execution of certain securities
transaction instructions and custody operation instructions submitted by such Automatic Borrower,
as described in the Operating Procedures. Each Automatic Borrower will be deemed to submit a
request to borrow in order to cover any such insufficiency as so determined.
An automatic Borrower may also submit requests to borrow as an Opportunity Borrower pursuant
to Section 8.

8. Opportunity
Borrowing

A request to borrow securities through the Securities Lending and Borrowing Program by an
Opportunity Borrower must be submitted to Euroclear Bank by the means and in accordance with
the formats and timings set forth in the Operating Procedures.

9. Implementation of
Borrowings; Recall
of Borrowings

(a) A Borrowing by a Borrower shall be effected by debiting to the Record-keeping Account of
the Borrower, and simultaneously crediting to the related Securities Clearance Account, the
quantity of the Borrowed Securities, or as otherwise specified in the Operating Procedures. A
reimbursement of a Borrowing shall be effected by crediting to the Record-keeping Account
of the Borrower and simultaneously debiting to the related Securities Clearance Account
of such Borrower, the quantity of the Borrowed Securities, or as otherwise specified in the
Operating Procedures.
(b) Euroclear Bank shall determine, in accordance with the Operating Procedures, the types and
amounts of the Borrowings of each issue by each Borrower.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provisions of these Supplementary Terms and Conditions, Euroclear
Bank may refuse to arrange any Borrowing:
(i) if Euroclear Bank determines in its sole discretion that
(A) upon completion of the requested Borrowing, the Borrower requesting to borrow
such securities would not have adequate credit arrangements, or
(B) there has occurred any event which constitutes (or with notice or lapse of time, or
both, would constitute) a default under the provisions of any credit arrangements
entered into between the Borrower and Euroclear Bank; or
(ii) that fails to satisfy any conditions set forth in the Operating Procedures.
(d) Euroclear Bank may at any time in its sole discretion send a notice of recall requiring any
Borrower to repay its Borrowings in whole or in part in accordance with the procedures and
timings set forth in the Operating Procedures.

8
EXE40008

Exhibit E-4

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

10. Reimbursement
of Borrowing

Euroclear Bank will determine the extent to which Borrowings by any Borrower may be
reimbursed, in whole or in part, in accordance with the Operating Procedures. Euroclear Bank
will cause the Borrowings of such Borrower to be reimbursed to the extent so determined.

11. Cash Distributions
Paid on Securities;
Redemption

(a) Whenever a Cash Distribution shall be paid by an issuer on any issue of securities as to which
there are Borrowed Securities, an amount equal to such Cash Distribution or such other
amount as may be described in the Operating Procedures in respect of the quantity of the
securities loaned by each Lender as of the date of such Cash Distribution payment (or if there
is a record date for determining who is entitled to receive such Cash Distribution, as of such
record date) will be credited to the Cash Account of such Lender, in accordance with the
Operating Procedures.
The Cash Account of each Borrower of such securities will be debited for an amount equal to
such Cash Distribution or such other amount as may be described in the Operating Procedures
in respect of the quantity of the securities borrowed by such Borrower, in accordance with the
Operating Procedures.
(b) Whenever an issuer of any issue of securities as to which there are Borrowed Securities shall
make a payment in full of such securities or any payment in retirement thereof, an amount
equal to the amount paid by such issuer in respect of the quantity of the securities loaned by
each Lender as of the date of payment will be credited to the Cash Account of such Lender,
and the related Record-keeping Account of such Lender will be debited for such securities, in
accordance with the Operating Procedures.
The Cash Account of each Borrower of such securities will be debited for an amount equal
to the amount paid by the issuer in respect of the quantity of the securities borrowed by
such Borrower, and the Record-keeping Account of such Borrower will be credited for such
securities, in accordance with the Operating Procedures.

12. Non-cash
Distributions
on Securities

Whenever a Non-cash Distribution shall be distributed by an issuer on any issue of securities as
to which there are Borrowed Securities, each Lender shall be entitled to receive as of the first date
of trading such Non-cash Distribution, or the first date of trading of the product of such Non-cash
Distribution, (or the next succeeding Business Day if such date is not a Business Day) in each case
as determined in the sole discretion of Euroclear Bank, in respect of the quantity of securities of
such issue loaned as of such date (or if there is a record date for determining who is entitled to
receive such Non-cash Distribution, as of such record date):
(a) credit to its Record-keeping Account reflecting such Non-cash Distribution in respect of
securities loaned; or
(b) credit to its Record-keeping Account reflecting the product of such Non-cash Distribution in
respect of securities loaned (subject to any provisions of the Operating Procedures with respect
to the exercise and any exercise price thereof); or
(c) immediate reimbursement of Loans to the extent of such Non-cash Distribution on securities
loaned; or
(d) immediate reimbursement of Loans in the form of the product of any Non-cash Distribution
on securities loaned (subject to any provisions of the Operating Procedures with respect to the
exercise and any exercise price thereof); or

9
EXE40009

Exhibit E-4
12. Non-cash
Distributions
on Securities
(continued)

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
(e) credit to its Cash Account of cash compensation with respect to such Non-cash Distribution
on securities loaned; or
(f) such other entitlement with respect to such Non-cash Distribution as shall be provided for in
the Operating Procedures,
in accordance with the provisions of the Operating Procedures applicable to the type of
securities loaned.
Euroclear Bank will take the following action in respect of each Borrower as of the first date
of trading of any such Non-cash Distribution or the first date of trading the product of such
Non-cash Distribution (or the next succeeding Business Day if such date is not a Business Day)
in respect of the quantity of securities of such issue loaned as of such date (or any relevant
record date):
(A) debit such Non-cash Distribution to its Record-keeping Account reflecting the securities
borrowed; or
(B) debit the product of such Non-cash Distribution to its Record-keeping Account reflecting
the securities borrowed (subject to any provisions of the Operating Procedures with respect
to the exercise and any exercise price thereof); or
(C) recall Loans with Repayment Date the first date of trading of the Non-cash Distribution
(or the next succeeding Business Day if such date is not a Business Day), to the extent of
such Non-cash Distribution on securities borrowed; or
(D) recall Loans in the form of the product of such Non-cash Distribution on securities loaned,
with Repayment Date the first date of trading of such product (or the next succeeding
Business Day if such date is not a Business Day), subject to any provisions of the
Operating Procedures with respect to the exercise and any exercise price thereof; or
(E) debit to its Cash Account cash compensation with respect to such Non-cash Distribution
on securities borrowed; or
(F) debit to its Securities Clearance Account, its Record-keeping Account or its Cash Account
such other entitlement with respect to such Non-cash Distribution as shall be provided for
in the Operating Procedures,
in accordance with the provisions of the Operating Procedures applicable to the type of
securities loaned.

13. Repayment
of Securities

(a) The Repayment Date of a Borrowing (or portion thereof) by a Borrower shall be the earlier of:
(i) the date specified in a notice of recall issued pursuant to Section 9(d);
(ii) the date specified in or determined pursuant to any credit arrangement entered
between the Borrower and Euroclear Bank;

into

(iii) the expiry date, if any, of such Borrowing;

10
EXE40010

Exhibit E-4
13. Repayment
of Securities
(continued)

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
(iv) the date on which
(A) an involuntary case or other proceeding shall be commenced against the Borrower
seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief with respect to it or its debts under
any bankruptcy, composition, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in
effect or seeking the appointment of a trustee, receiver, liquidator, custodian or other
similar official of it or any substantial part of its property, or an order for relief shall
be entered against the Borrower under any bankruptcy, composition, insolvency or
other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or, in addition to the foregoing, if the
Borrower is a bank, any comparable event shall occur, or any supervisory authority
shall commence any proceeding or seek or order any comparable relief or take any
comparable action; or
(B) the Borrower shall commence, or file a petition for the commencement of, a voluntary
case or other proceeding seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief with respect
to itself or its debts under any bankruptcy, composition, insolvency or other similar
law now or hereafter in effect or seeking the appointment of a trustee, receiver,
liquidator, custodian or other similar official of it or any substantial part of its property,
or shall consent to any such relief or to the appointment of or taking possession by
any such official in an involuntary case or other proceeding commenced against it, or
shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, or shall fail generally to
pay its debts as they become due, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts
as they become due, or shall take any action in furtherance of any of the foregoing,
or, in addition to the foregoing, if the Borrower is a bank, any comparable event shall
occur or the Borrower shall take any comparable action (including any request for
relief from any supervisory authority); provided that Euroclear Bank may in its sole
discretion determine that the occurrence of any of the events specified in clauses (A)
and (B) shall not constitute a Repayment Date of a Borrowing.
Euroclear Bank may, in its sole discretion, decide to exercise the guaranty as provided
in Section 14, and attempt to purchase replacement securities in order to fulfil the
Borrower’s obligations vis-à-vis the Lender(s) without notifying a Loan recall to the
Lender.
(b) Each Borrower must return Borrowed Securities in such a manner that they can be credited
to the Securities Clearance Accounts of one or more Lenders by the Repayment Date for
such Borrowing (or the next succeeding Business Day if the Repayment Date is not a Business
Day). Therefore, the Borrower must make the Borrowed Securities available in its Securities
Clearance Account in accordance with the timings set forth in the Operating Procedures.
(c) In the event that any Borrower fails to return Borrowed Securities by the Repayment Date,
Euroclear Bank reserves the right to charge such Borrower a supplementary fee on such
terms, for such period, and at such rate as are described in the Operating Procedures. Such
supplementary fee shall be debited to the Cash Account of the Borrower.
Such supplementary fee will be paid to the Lenders to which the unreturned securities were
allocated pursuant to Section 14(a)(i), pro rata to the quantity of such securities allocated to
such Lender and will be credited to its Cash Account.

11
EXE40011

Exhibit E-4
14. Guaranty to
Lenders; Remedies
against Borrowers

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
(a) Euroclear Bank makes the following guaranty to each Lender:
(i) In the event any Borrower fails to return Borrowed Securities by the Repayment Date in
accordance with Section 13, Euroclear Bank will:
(ia) in case it has notified a Loan recall, select, in accordance with the Operating
Procedures, one or more Lenders and will allocate the unreturned securities among
the Lenders so selected;
(ib) in case a Lender has sent a Requested Recall, contemplate to substitute such Lender
and if this is not possible, generate a notice of recall to the Borrower;
(ic) in case the Lender does not send a Requested Recall and Euroclear Bank does not
notify a Loan recall to the Lender, make a reasonable effort, for the period as defined
in the Operating Procedures, to purchase replacement securities pursuant to (v) below
in order to reimburse the Lender.
A Lender may instruct Euroclear Bank in accordance with the Operating Procedures
either (x) to credit to its Securities Clearance Account securities in replacement of the
quantity of unreturned securities allocated to such Lender, (y) to credit to its Securities
Clearance Account securities in replacement of the unreturned securities allocated to
such Lender in the form of similar equivalent securities as the Borrowed Securities, or (z)
to credit the Cash Account of such Lender with the amount of cash as described in (ix)
below.
(ii) If any Lender instructs Euroclear Bank in accordance with the Operating Procedures
and pursuant to (i)(y) above to credit to its Securities Clearance Account securities in
replacement of the quantity of unreturned securities allocated to such Lender, then upon
receipt of such instruction, Euroclear Bank will make a reasonable effort, for the period
defined in the Operating Procedures to purchase replacement securities pursuant to (v)
below.
(iii) If any Lender instructs Euroclear Bank in accordance with the Operating Procedures to
credit its Cash Account in accordance with (i)(z) above, its Cash Account will be credited
pursuant to (ix) below.
(iv) If any Lender does not instruct Euroclear Bank by the deadline specified in the Operating Procedures in accordance with (i)(y) or (i)(z) above, Euroclear Bank will make
a reasonable effort for the period defined in the Operating Procedures to purchase
replacement securities pursuant to (v) below.
(v) Any purchase of replacement securities in accordance with (ii) or (iv) above shall be
made only in such markets, in such manner, on such terms and for such consideration as
Euroclear Bank in its sole discretion shall consider appropriate. Any securities so purchased
shall be credited to the Securities Clearance Account of such Lender as soon as possible
after such securities are received by Euroclear Bank, and the related Record-keeping
Account shall be debited with an equal quantity of such securities.
(vi) If at the end of the period defined in the Operating Procedures, Euroclear Bank has not
purchased securities to replace unreturned securities, a Lender may instruct Euroclear
Bank to credit the Cash Account of such Lender with an amount of cash as described in
(ix) below.
(vii) If any Lender instructs Euroclear Bank in accordance with the Operating Procedures to
credit the Cash Account of such Lender in accordance with (vi) above, the Cash Account
of such Lender will be credited as described in (ix) below.
(viii) If any Lender does not instruct Euroclear Bank to credit the Cash Account of such
Lender, Euroclear Bank will allow the Loan to continue, as set forth in the Operating
Procedures.

12
EXE40012

Exhibit E-4
14. Guaranty to
Lenders; Remedies
against Borrowers
(continued)

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
(ix) If Euroclear Bank is required to act pursuant to (i)(z) or (vi) above, the Cash Account of
each relevant Lender will be credited in accordance with the Operating Procedures with
an amount of cash equal to the Market Value calculated as described in the Operating
Procedures of the quantity of such securities allocated to such Lender by Euroclear Bank,
together with any accrued interest on the securities so allocated to the date upon which
such credit is effected, and the Record-keeping Account of such Lender shall be debited
with an equal quantity of such securities.
(x) If any Borrower, having failed to return Borrowed Securities by a Repayment Date,
returns any such securities (i) prior to the initiation of the purchase by Euroclear Bank
of replacement securities, then the quantity of any such purchase (or the quantity of an
equivalent value for similar securities) shall be reduced by the quantity of securities
returned, or (ii) prior to the credit to the Cash Accounts of any Lenders of amounts of
cash equal to the Market Value of unreturned securities, then the amount of cash shall
be reduced pro rata to the quantity of securities returned, or (iii) after the initiation of the
purchase by Euroclear Bank of replacement securities, including securities in replacement
of the unreturned Borrowed Securities or securities equivalent to the Borrowed Securities,
then Euroclear Bank will, (a) in case the returned securities by the Borrower are
sufficient to cover the Requested Recall, credit the purchased securities in the Borrower’s
Securities Clearance Account and debit the costs from the Borrower’s Cash Account, (b)
in case the returned securities by the Borrower are insufficient to cover the Requested
Recall, credit the purchased securities in the Lender’s Securities Clearance Account in so
far as the Requested Recall was not covered and credit the remaining purchased securities
in the Borrower’s Securities Clearance Account and debit the costs from the Borrower’s
Cash Account.
(b) Euroclear Bank guarantees to each Lender that all amounts of Cash Distribution and all
amounts upon payment in full of securities required to be credited to the Cash Account of
each Lender pursuant to Section 11, all fees required to be credited to such Cash Account
pursuant to Section 16 and any other cash amounts required to be credited to such Cash
Account pursuant to Section 12(e) or Section 12(f), will be so credited, and all amounts of
Non-cash Distribution or any product of a Non-cash Distribution required to be reimbursed in
kind in accordance with Section 12(c), Section 12(d) or Section 12(f) will be so reimbursed,
subject to such provision as may be made in the Operating Procedures with respect to cash
compensation in lieu thereof under circumstances described in the Operating Procedures.
(c) Euroclear Bank will have the sole right, to the exclusion of any Lender or other person, to
exercise or assert any and all rights or claims in respect of any failure to return Borrowed
Securities, failure to make available a Non-cash Distribution or any other actions or omissions
of any Borrower. Except as provided in this Section 14, neither Euroclear Bank nor any other
person shall have any liability to any Lender for the failure of any Borrower to return Borrowed
Securities, failure to make available a Non-cash Distribution or failure to pay any Cash
Distribution, principal or fees payable in respect of Borrowed Securities.
(d) All costs incurred by Euroclear Bank in connection with any purchase of securities and
the amount of any payments by Euroclear Bank, in both cases pursuant to Section 14(a) or
14(b), as well as any other expenses incurred by Euroclear Bank (including those incurred
under Section 14(c)) as a result of the failure of a Borrower to return Borrowed Securities on
the Repayment Date of all or part of a Borrowing or as a result of the failure of a Borrower
to make available on the ex-distribution date all or part of a Non-cash Distribution on any
issue of loaned securities, shall be for the account and at the sole expense of such Borrower.
Euroclear Bank will debit all such costs, payments and expenses to the Cash Account of
such Borrower and in the event the amount standing to the credit of such Cash Account is
insufficient to pay all such costs, payments and expenses, the Borrower shall remain liable to
Euroclear Bank for any such deficiency.

13
EXE40013

Exhibit E-4
15. Rights, Duties
and Liabilities of
Euroclear Bank

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
(a) Euroclear Bank may be a Lender and, in that capacity, will have the same rights, duties and
liabilities it would have if Euroclear Bank were not the operator of the Euroclear System.
(b) Without limiting the generality of Section 2(d) of these Supplementary Terms and Conditions,
Euroclear Bank shall have no liability to any Lender for the failure to arrange any Loan, or
for any trading or other opportunities undertaken or foregone in anticipation of making a Loan
and shall have no liability to any Borrower for the failure to arrange a requested Borrowing
or for any trading or other opportunities undertaken or foregone in anticipation of making a
Borrowing.

16. Fees and Expenses

Borrowers shall be charged such fees, and for such expenses and disbursements, and Lenders
shall be paid such fees as shall be specified from time to time in accordance with the Operating
Procedures. Amounts charged to Borrowers shall be debited to the relevant Borrowers’ Cash
Accounts, and amounts paid to Lenders shall be credited to the relevant Lenders’ Cash Accounts.

17. Termination:
Resignation

(a) Euroclear Bank may at any time in its sole discretion discontinue the Securities Lending and
Borrowing Program conducted pursuant to these Supplementary Terms and Conditions upon
notice to all Lenders and Borrowers effective immediately.
(b) Euroclear Bank may at any time in its sole discretion (i) terminate any Lender as an Opportunity
Lender or Automatic Lender or (ii) terminate any Borrower as an Opportunity Borrower or
Automatic Borrower upon notice to such Lender or Borrower effective immediately.
(c) Any Lender may advise Euroclear Bank, in accordance with the Operating Procedures, that
it wishes to resign as an Automatic Lender or an Opportunity Lender, and any Borrower may
advise Euroclear Bank, in accordance with the Operating Procedures, that it wishes to resign
as an Automatic Borrower or an Opportunity Borrower. Any such resignation shall become
effective in accordance with the Operating Procedures.
(d) Upon the termination of a Lender as an Automatic Lender or Opportunity Lender, or upon the
resignation of a Lender as an Automatic Lender or Opportunity Lender, Euroclear Bank will
require one or more Borrowers selected in accordance with the Operating Procedures to repay
their Borrowings in whole or in part (in an aggregate amount sufficient to permit repayment
of the Loans by such Lender) pursuant to Section 9(d). Upon the discontinuance of the Securities
Lending and Borrowing Program, Euroclear Bank will require all Borrowers to repay their
Borrowings in whole pursuant to Section 9(d).
(e) Neither the termination or resignation of a Borrower as an Automatic Borrower or Opportunity
Borrower or of a Lender as an Automatic Lender or Opportunity Lender nor the discontinuance
of the Securities Lending and Borrowing Program by Euroclear Bank shall affect the rights
and obligations of any Lender or Borrower theretofore existing, including without limitation
the obligation of a Borrower to return Borrowed Securities pursuant to Section 13. Euroclear
Bank shall have no liability to any Lender, Borrower or other person as a result of any
termination, discontinuance or any other action pursuant to this Section 17.

14
EXE40014

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of
the Euroclear System
F e b r u a r y 2 0 1 6

EXE50001

Exhibit
E-5Procedures of the Euroclear System
The Operating

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Euroclear System is operated under contract by:
Euroclear Bank SA/NV
1 Boulevard du Roi Albert II
B-1210 Brussels, Belgium
RPM Brussels 0429875591
Tel: +32 (0)2 326 1211
my.euroclear.com
2016 Euroclear Bank SA/NV
All rights reserved.
Euroclear is the marketing name for the Euroclear System, Euroclear plc,
Euroclear SA/NV and their affiliates
Euroclear Bank is a banking corporation organised under the laws of the Kingdom of Belgium
No part of this document may be reproduced, in any forms or by any means, without permission in writing from
Euroclear Bank SA/NV

February 2016

Page 1
EXE50002

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Summary table of contents
Summary table of contents .................................................................................................................. 1
Part I: Introduction ................................................................................................................................ 3
1.1

Welcome to the Euroclear Bank Operating Procedures ....................................................... 5

1.2

The Operating Procedures as part of our legal documentation........................................... 5

1.3

Banking services....................................................................................................................... 6

1.4

Regulators.................................................................................................................................. 6

1.5

Contact us.................................................................................................................................. 7

Part II: General Rules............................................................................................................................ 9
2.1

Requirements to become a Participant ................................................................................ 11

2.2

Opening of Accounts .............................................................................................................. 14

2.3

Entries in Participant Accounts............................................................................................. 16

2.4

Safekeeping and rights to securities in the Euroclear System .......................................... 18

2.5

Disclosure ................................................................................................................................ 18

2.6

Audit requirements ................................................................................................................. 20

2.7

Calculation of interest ............................................................................................................ 20

2.8

Exchange rates........................................................................................................................ 21

2.9

Claims and compensation...................................................................................................... 21

2.10

Value Date ................................................................................................................................ 21

2.11

Insurance information ............................................................................................................ 22

2.12

Outsourcing ............................................................................................................................. 22

2.13

Fees .......................................................................................................................................... 22

Part III: Rights and Responsibilities.................................................................................................. 25
3.1

Compliance with local market legislation and governing documentation of issues ....... 27

3.2

Reversals ................................................................................................................................. 30

3.3

Blocking ................................................................................................................................... 31

3.4

Settlement restrictions ........................................................................................................... 32

3.5

Statutory lien and pledge to our benefit ............................................................................... 34

3.6

Special pledged accounts ...................................................................................................... 35

3.7

Securities and cash ................................................................................................................ 35

3.8

Rules applicable to defaulted Participants........................................................................... 36

3.9

Use of information and data protection ................................................................................ 37

3.10

Confidential information......................................................................................................... 39

3.11

Access to records ................................................................................................................... 39

3.12

Business continuity ................................................................................................................ 39

Part IV: Connectivity ........................................................................................................................... 41
4.1

To Euroclear Bank .................................................................................................................. 43

4.2

From Euroclear Bank .............................................................................................................. 52

Part V: Section 1

February 2016

New Issues .......................................................................................................... 55

Page 1

EXE50003

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

5.1.1

Acceptance criteria ............................................................................................................. 57

5.1.2

Acceptance process ........................................................................................................... 57

5.1.3

Acceptance channels ......................................................................................................... 59

5.1.4

New issues distribution ...................................................................................................... 60

Part V: Section 2

Settlement Services ........................................................................................... 67

5.2.1

Processing rules ................................................................................................................. 69

5.2.2

Internal settlement .............................................................................................................. 77

5.2.3

Bridge settlement ................................................................................................................ 81

5.2.4

External settlement ............................................................................................................. 86

Part V: Section 3

Custody Services ............................................................................................... 95

5.3.1

Custody

General rules..................................................................................................... 97

5.3.2

Custody

Specific custody rules ................................................................................... 108

Part V: Section 4

Money Transfer................................................................................................. 125

5.4.1

Acceptance of currencies ................................................................................................ 127

5.4.2

Money transfer services ................................................................................................... 127

Part V: Section 5

Securities Lending and Borrowing Program................................................. 135

5.5.1

Securities Lending and Borrowing Program overview ................................................. 137

5.5.2

Lending .............................................................................................................................. 140

5.5.3

Borrowing .......................................................................................................................... 142

5.5.4

Recalls................................................................................................................................ 145

5.5.5

Corporate Actions ............................................................................................................. 146

5.5.6

The Euroclear Bank Guaranty.......................................................................................... 148

5.5.7

Billing ................................................................................................................................. 149

5.5.8

Specific features ............................................................................................................... 150

Part V: Section 6

FundSettle ......................................................................................................... 153

5.6.1

General section ................................................................................................................. 155

5.6.2

FundSettle holding structures ......................................................................................... 156

5.6.3

Additional FundSettle services........................................................................................ 157

5.6.4

Rights and responsibilities .............................................................................................. 158

5.6.5

Connectivity....................................................................................................................... 161

5.6.6

Operational information ................................................................................................... 163

Annex I: Definitions .......................................................................................................................... 169
List of defined terms......................................................................................................................... 169
List of terms defined in Sections of the Operating Procedures .................................................. 175
Abbreviations .................................................................................................................................... 177

February 2016

Page 2

EXE50004

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Part I: Introduction
1.1

Welcome to the Euroclear Bank Operating Procedures ....................................................... 5

1.2

The Operating Procedures as part of our legal documentation........................................... 5

1.3

Banking services....................................................................................................................... 6

1.4

Regulators.................................................................................................................................. 6

1.5

Contact us.................................................................................................................................. 7

February 2016

Page 3

EXE50005

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

February 2016

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Page 4

EXE50006

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

1.1

Welcome to the Euroclear Bank Operating
Procedures

The Operating Procedures provide you with a comprehensive description of our services. This document forms part of
the legal documentation which governs the use of our services.
Throughout this document:
we, us, our refers to Euroclear Bank
you, your refers to you as a Participant
all references to time refers to Brussels time unless otherwise stated.

1.2

The Operating Procedures as part of our legal
documentation

Terms and Conditions
Supplementary Terms and
Conditions
Operating Procedures
Other Euroclear
Documentation

(a) The Operating Procedures must be read along with the Terms and Conditions and Supplementary Terms and
Conditions. In cases of conflict, the Terms and Conditions and/or the Supplementary Terms and Conditions will prevail.
The Euroclear Documentation is supplemental to and constitutes and integral part of these Operating Procedures.
In cases of conflict with such other Euroclear Documentation, the Operating Procedures will prevail.
Contractual language
(b) The English language version of the following documents is official for our relationship:
Terms and Conditions
Supplementary Terms and Conditions
Operating Procedures
Euroclear Documentation.
Any translations we provide are for your convenience only and are not legally binding, except where we mention
otherwise.

February 2016

Page 5

EXE50007

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Amendments to these Operating Procedures
(c) We may amend these Operating Procedures at any time. We will notify you of such amendments, by email, in
accordance with Section 19 of the Terms and Conditions.
Headings and references
(d) Headings and captions used throughout this document do not change the structure or meaning of the text.
References to sections refer to sections within these Operating Procedures.

1.3

Banking services

We provide some services in a banking capacity. These services are governed by separate agreements and nothing
within these Operating Procedures will amend or affect such services and/or agreements.
When offering banking services, we act in our capacity as a bank and not in our capacity as operator of the Euroclear
System.

1.4

Regulators

As a Belgian bank we are subject to:
Regulation
Oversight of the National Bank of
System

Prudential supervision of the NBB

Supervision on post-trade market
rules and conduct of business rules
of the Belgian Financial Services and

Supervision of anti-money
laundering practices by the NBB

February 2016

Article of Belgian Law
Article 8 of the Law of 22
February 1998 on the
Organic Statute of the NBB
Article 23 of the Law of 2
August 2002
Law of 28 April 1999
implementing the EU
Settlement Finality Directive
(Directive 98/26/EC)
NBB Circular 2012-06
implementing CPSS IOSCO
Principles for Financial
Market Infrastructures
Articles 36/2 and 36/3 of the
Law of 22 February 1998 on
the Organic Statute of the
NBB
Article 77 of the Law of 25
April 2014 on the Status and
the Supervision of Credit
Institutions
Articles 23 and 45 §1 of the Law of 2
August 2002

Law of 11 January 1993 on the
prevention of money laundering and
terrorism financing implementing
Directives 2005/60/EC and
2006/70/EC

Comments
The Euroclear System, operated
by Euroclear Bank, is recognised
as a Securities Settlement
System. The NBB ensures that
the Euroclear System operates
properly, including by verifying our
compliance with international
regulatory standards.

We have been designated as a
systematically important financial
institution which results in a
specific supervisory regime.

This includes
market abuse
conflicts of interest
ethical conduct
protection of client
assets
best execution
client classification
compliance function.

Page 6

EXE50008

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

1.5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Contact us

If you have any questions about these Operating Procedures, please contact your relationship manager. You may also
www.euroclear.com for service specific help desks.

February 2016

Page 7

EXE50009

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

February 2016

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Page 8

EXE50010

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Part II: General Rules
2.1

Requirements to become a Participant ................................................................................ 11

2.1.1

Prerequisite to admission ........................................................................................................................ 11

2.1.2

General admission policy ........................................................................................................................ 11

2.1.3

Appeal..................................................................................................................................................... 13

2.2

Opening of Accounts .............................................................................................................. 14

2.2.1

Abbreviation of names and special designations..................................................................................... 14

2.2.2

Securities Clearance Accounts and Cash Accounts................................................................................ 14

2.2.3

Additional Accounts................................................................................................................................. 14

2.2.4

Transit Accounts ..................................................................................................................................... 15

2.2.5

Record-keeping Accounts ....................................................................................................................... 15

2.2.6

Non-Deposit Accounts ............................................................................................................................ 15

2.2.7

Différé of Accounts.................................................................................................................................. 16

2.3

Entries in Participant Accounts............................................................................................. 16

2.3.1

Final or provisional entries: general rules ................................................................................................ 16

2.3.2

Provisional entries................................................................................................................................... 16

2.3.2.1

Securities Clearance Accounts........................................................................................................... 16

2.3.2.2

Cash Accounts ................................................................................................................................... 17

2.4

Safekeeping and rights to securities in the Euroclear System .......................................... 18

2.4.1

Safekeeping of securities ........................................................................................................................ 18

2.4.2

Your rights............................................................................................................................................... 18

2.5

Disclosure ................................................................................................................................ 18

2.5.1

Authorised disclosure.............................................................................................................................. 18

2.5.2

Disclosure to third parties........................................................................................................................ 19

2.5.3

Disclosure to Euroclear group entities..................................................................................................... 20

2.6

Audit requirements ................................................................................................................. 20

2.7

Calculation of interest ............................................................................................................ 20

2.8

Exchange rates........................................................................................................................ 21

2.9

Claims and compensation...................................................................................................... 21

2.10

Value Date ................................................................................................................................ 21

2.11

Insurance information ............................................................................................................ 22

2.12

Outsourcing ............................................................................................................................. 22

2.13

Fees .......................................................................................................................................... 22

2.13.1

General ................................................................................................................................................... 22

2.13.2

Charging fees to other Accounts ............................................................................................................. 22

2.13.3

Calculation dates .................................................................................................................................... 22

2.13.4

Value calculation ..................................................................................................................................... 23

2.13.5

Minimum fees.......................................................................................................................................... 23

2.13.6

Additional fees ........................................................................................................................................ 23

2.13.7

Automatic fee conversion ........................................................................................................................ 23

February 2016

Page 9

EXE50011

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

February 2016

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Page 10

EXE50012

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

2.1

Requirements to become a Participant

2.1.1

Prerequisite to admission

You may only be admitted in the Euroclear System if:
you are established in a jurisdiction that is not subject to international or European sanctions or that is not
subject to a call for action from the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) in the context of the fight against
money laundering and terrorism financing
you provide adequate information enabling us to meet the Belgian anti-money laundering and terrorism
financing requirements that apply to us.

2.1.2

General admission policy

(a) We will consider you for your admission in the Euroclear System as either
a Standard Participant
a Specific Regulated Participant
a Specific Participant
depending on your regulatory status and/or place of permanent establishment.
This categorisation is by virtue of the Belgian legislation implementing the EU Directive 98/26/EC on Settlement Finality
in Payment and Securities Settlement Systems. Specific Regulated Participants and Specific Participants must comply
with specific additional requirements to mitigate potential additional risks resulting from their participation in the
Euroclear System. You must bring appropriate evidence enabling us to adequately consider and handle your
application.
(b) You are a Standard Participant if:
you are licensed as a credit institution or investment firm, whether or not in the EU
you are a public authority or a publicly guaranteed undertaking
you fall under the supervision of a competent authority in the meaning of the EBA (1093/2010), EIOPA
(1094/2010), ESMA (1095/2010) or EMIR (648/2012) regulations.
(c) You are a Specific Regulated Participant if:
you are subject to supervision in a jurisdiction outside the EU
you are listed on a stock exchange.
(d) You are a Specific Participant if you are neither subject to supervision in your jurisdiction nor listed on a stock
exchange.
(e) You must comply with the below criteria on an ongoing basis in order to participate in the Euroclear System:
adequate financial resources
operational and technological capacity
legal capacity
internal control and risk management
ethical standards
Criteria
You demonstrate adequate financial resources to run your business on a going concern basis and meet your obligations
towards us, the Euroclear System and its Participants. This includes:

February 2016

Page 11

EXE50013

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

For All Participants
your current resources and your ability to maintain
adequate financial resources on an ongoing basis,
having regard to your activities and the
environment in which you operate
you provide your annual reports for the two
preceding years, and those of your direct and
ultimate parent companies and you provide these
statements on an annual basis as long as you
remain a Participant

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

For Specific Participants
either you also provide your semi-annual financial
statements, or
you confirm the absence of adverse change to
your financial condition since the last financial
statements

You have adequate operational and technological capacity to ensure business continuity and avoid material adverse
impact on the integrity of the Euroclear System. This includes:
For All Participants
you have adequate human resources, facilities
and infrastructure to use the Euroclear System
effectively
you can comply with the security requirements
necessary for the safety of the Euroclear System
you can install, operate and maintain the
necessary communication platforms with the
Euroclear System
you have adequate back-up facilities and
contingency plans for maintaining operational
capabilities in contingency situations

For Specific Participants
you demonstrate you have adequate internal
procedures and controls (ISAE 3402 report or
equivalent external report), or
you provide adequate evidence of your business
continuity plans and operational readiness
(including sourcing policies if relevant)

You demonstrate your legal capacity and ability to accept and comply with the rules of the Euroclear System. This
includes:
For All Participants
you are duly incorporated in your country of
permanent establishment (articles of association,
by-laws, extract of your national legal entities
registry)
you are duly licensed and supervised to carry out
your business

For Specific Participants
you also execute a set of representations and
warranties to confirm the absence of legal
impediment for you to participate in the Euroclear
System. A specific form is available.

You have an appropriate internal control and risk management framework in place that is such as to preserve the
integrity and reputation of the Euroclear System. This includes:
For All Participants
your internal control and risk management
framework is commensurate with your risk profile,
capital strength and business strategy
you have no business practices or any other factor
that would adversely reflect on your internal
controls and risk management
your business activities do not generate
unacceptable risks for the Euroclear System or for
us

For Specific Participants
you also provide adequate documentation on your
internal control and risk management framework
you advise us of any material change in the
internal control and risk management framework
as long as you remain a Participant

You have implemented ethical standards that are such as to protect the integrity and reputation of the Euroclear
System. This includes:

February 2016

Page 12

EXE50014

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

For All Participants
if you are subject to anti-money laundering and
terrorism financing regulations, your ability to
demonstrate an adequate anti-money laundering
program which includes a procedural framework,
Know Your Customer (KYC) measures, beneficial
owners and Politically Exposed Persons (PEPs)
identification and monitoring of client activities
your adhesion to high standards for fighting fraud,
bribery, market abuse and conflicts of interest
eputation is adequate

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

For Specific Participants
you also provide appropriate evidence of your
internal code of ethics which should cover fraud,
bribery, acceptance of gifts, conflicts of interest
and prevention of market abuse

We apply a risk-based approach and therefore, we can take other relevant risk factors into account where needed for
the protection of the Euroclear System or its Participants.
(f) You must notify us in writing, with appropriate supporting documents, of any material event or changes which may
affect your ability to comply with the criteria listed above. Such changes may include, but are not limited to:
your activity
your corporate and ownership structure
your corporate object
your legal capacity
the extent or the validity of the signatory powers of your representatives
your operational or technical organisation,
any new contractual arrangement, such as an outsourcing
any law, decree, regulation, governmental order, court decision
a material case of fraud.
(g) Our admission policy is set by the Board of Euroclear Bank. You must meet our admission criteria so that we can
comply with applicable regulatory requirements. Your participation in the Euroclear System should not expose us to any
additional reporting, disclosure or other regulatory requirements.
We will at all times look to protect the integrity of the Euroclear System as a wholesale international settlement system
with a broad variety of Participants. We may therefore adapt the above criteria upon the decision of the Euroclear Bank
Management Committee, in order to take into consideration any relevant risk for us, the Euroclear System or its
Participants.
(h) We may admit you into the Euroclear System for a particular service and not our full service offering. If this is the
case we may:
refuse to process Instructions which are inconsistent with limitations we place on you as a result of your limited
participation
take any actions required to implement the limitations.

2.1.3

Appeal

Your relationship manager will notify you in writing of whether our Management Committee has accepted your
application.
If we refuse your application, you have the right to appeal. Our letter informing you of our decision will explain the
reasons for your rejection and the procedure to appeal. The process is shown below.

February 2016

Page 13

EXE50015

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

Step 1: Sending your
appeal

-

Step 2: Board
discussion

-

Step 3:
Communication of
decision

-

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

you must appeal in writing to the Chairman of our Board within 30 calendar days of
receiving our initial rejection letter
you must explain the grounds of your appeal and why you believe you fulfil the
participation requirements
our Management Committee will provide information relevant to your application to
our Board prior to its meeting to discuss your appeal. Our Board will decide the
outcome of your appeal within 60 calendar days of receipt of your written appeal
request

2.2

Opening of Accounts

2.2.1

Abbreviation of names and special designations

(a) We create an electronic record to identify you and your Accounts in computer produced reports. We may abbreviate
your name and Accounts in such reports as well as any other name/designation that may be added in line with these
Operating Procedures.
(b) We may add a designation in an Account which identifies a person other than you. The designation will not create a
contractual relationship between us and the designated person, nor will it provide the basis for a claim for such
designated person over the securities and cash held in those Accounts.

2.2.2

Securities Clearance Accounts and Cash Accounts

(a) Once you enter into an agreement to participate in the Euroclear System we will open at least one Account for you
which contains:
a Securities Clearance Account to which securities accepted in the Euroclear System are credited
a related Cash Account with subdivisions for each Settlement Currency accepted in the Euroclear System
a related Transit Account.
We will inform you of your Account number once the Securities Clearance Account and related Cash Account are
available for transactions.

2.2.3

Additional Accounts

(a) If you request to segregate securities held in the Euroclear System in two or more Securities Clearance Accounts we
can open additional Securities Clearance Accounts for you. Each will have its own related Cash Account and Transit
Account.
Any additional Account will be opened under the same name as your main Account. If you request it, we can add a
designation to help distinguish Accounts from one another.
This is without prejudice to Sections 3.5.2 and 3.6 of these Operating Procedures.
(b)

-with
credits and debits of cash related to the activity on all your
Securities Clearance Accounts, or on the Securities Clearance Accounts you specify.
If you use an Aggregate Cash Account for any or all of your Accounts, references in the Terms and Conditions and
Operating Procedures to a related Cash Account mean the Aggregate Cash Account.

February 2016

Page 14

EXE50016

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

2.2.4

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Transit Accounts

When opening a Securities Clearance Account we will automatically create a separate balance within the Account. This
can be used to record either:
securities received into the Euroclear System which have not yet met the conditions for credit to the Securities
Clearance Account
securities debited from a Securities Clearance Account that have not yet been delivered out of the Euroclear
System.
This separate balance is called the Transit Account. It forms an integral part of your Securities Clearance Account.
Any securities standing to the credit of a Transit Account are not available for the settlement of Instructions or Custody
Operations.

2.2.5

Record-keeping Accounts

A Record-keeping Account records Borrowings and Loans on our books in the name of each Borrower and Lender.
Record-keeping Accounts do not record holdings of securities in the Euroclear System and as a consequence do not
correspond to any securities available for use in the Euroclear System.
The Record-keeping Account may be divided into sub-accounts to record:
different types of Borrowings or Loans
Borrowings or Loans with different terms, fees, priority allocations or other features.
Sub-accounts will be considered as being part of one, indivisible Record-keeping Account unless otherwise specified.

2.2.6

Non-Deposit Accounts

(a) We may use Non-Deposit Accounts to enable our reporting of information to you or for other reasons we consider
appropriate. Non-Deposit Accounts do not record holdings of securities in the Euroclear System and as a consequence
do not correspond to any securities available for use in the Euroclear System.
In particular, Non-Deposit Accounts may be created:
to record that securities temporarily delivered out of the Euroclear System for voting purposes in certain
markets are to be redeposited in the Euroclear System (see Section 5.3.2.7)
to record information and provide services for securities not held in the Euroclear System.
(b) We can close Non-Deposit Accounts at any time.
(c) The securities losses provisions outlined in Section 17 of the Terms and Conditions do not apply to records on NonDeposit Accounts. We reserve the right to amend information recorded on Non-Deposit Accounts at any time, without
notice, on the basis of what we believe to be reliable sources of information.
(d) As Non-Deposit Accounts do not record holdings of securities in the Euroclear System:
we have no lien or claim in respect of securities held outside the Euroclear System
you cannot pledge or transfer by way of security any rights or interest in respect of such securities held outside
the Euroclear System.
(e) We will keep records of the IOA for each New Global Note. The records will form a Non-Deposit Account designated
NonNew Global Note form as of the date specified in the request.

February 2016

ecurities issued in

Page 15

EXE50017

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(f) We can block securities recorded on your Non-Deposit Account in order to facilitate operations and handling
Instructions.
(g) We may refer to Non-

2.2.7

Différé of Accounts

For the purposes of Belgian law, all entries made to a Transit Account or a Record-keeping Account, or more generally,
all entries relating to the delivery or the receipt of securities whose credit to the available balance of a Securities
Clearance Account is deferred until the fulfilment of a condition, the determination of its amount or the expiry of a time
limit, constitute the différé part of the relevant Securities Clearance Account within the meaning of the coordinated Royal
Decree No. 62 on the Deposit of Fungible Financial Instruments and the Settlement of Transactions involving such
Instruments.

2.3

Entries in Participant Accounts

2.3.1

Final or provisional entries: general rules

(a) Credits and debits to your Accounts can be final or provisional. We credit your Account only when we have obtained
the final receipt of securities for our account in the local market.
(b) Exceptions to this general rule are set out in the specific services sections of these Operating Procedures and may
also apply for certain domestic markets (see the Online Market Guides). We may credit securities or cash to your
Account before we receive confirmation that the receipt of such securities or cash in the local market is final (see the
Online Market Guides).
Until final receipt of securities, credits to your Account are provisional and securities cannot be used for further
transactions.
(c) The rules in this section apply to Securities Clearance Accounts, Cash Accounts and Transit Accounts.

2.3.2

Provisional entries

(a) Credits/debits applied to your Securities Clearance Accounts, Cash Accounts or Transit Accounts which are labelled
as provisional can be reversed. Reversal will take place if the conditions described in Sections 2.3.2.1 and 2.3.2.2 are
not met.
You authorise us to credit you with securities prior to final receipt even though such credit may be reversed. Further
information can be found in Section 3.2 Reversals.
(b) A provisional credit/debit does not become final by either:
the lack of an express reference to provisional status in a statement or report to you from us
further credits/debits to the same Account resulting from further securities transactions
statements in a report relating to credits to a Cash Account that indicate that funds have been received and
reconciled by us.

2.3.2.1

Securities Clearance Accounts

Specific rules for the final and provisional credits/debits for specific services are described in Part V of these Operating
Procedures. The general rules for such credits/debits are described below.

February 2016

Page 16

EXE50018

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

Credits to Securities Clearance Accounts
General rule
Receipts of physical, registered, inscribed or bookentry securities (or ownership transference
documents)

Become final only once:
-

-

the credit to our account in the local market is final, or
the registration in our name, the name of the
Depository, Other Settlement System or appropriate
nominee is final, or
if received by us or a Depository directly through an
Other Settlement System - the transfer to our, the
under local market rules/practice

Debits to Securities Clearance Accounts
General rule
Deliveries of physical, registered, inscribed or bookentry securities (or ownership transference
documents)

Become final only once:
-

the transfer is deemed final under local market
rules/practice, or
if transferred by us or a Depository directly through an
Other Settlement System - our local market account is
credited

2.3.2.2

Cash Accounts

Credits to Cash Accounts
Are provisional as follows
Deliveries of securities to Clearstream against payment

Custody Cash Distributions

Receipts of funds at Cash Correspondents

Are considered provisional until we receive Clearstream
Feedback Transmission indicating acceptance/refusal of
delivery
Are considered provisional until we receive final receipt in
whole of such payments and complete the necessary
reconciliation
Are considered provisional until such receipts are final and
we complete the necessary reconciliation

Debits to Cash Accounts
Are provisional as follows
Receipts of securities against payment

February 2016

Are considered provisional until the securities are
accepted in accordance with Part V: Section 2
(Settlement Services) of these Operating Procedures

Page 17

EXE50019

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

2.4

Safekeeping and rights to securities in the Euroclear
System

2.4.1

Safekeeping of securities

(a) You agree that all securities held on your Account(s) within the Euroclear System are fungible with all other
securities deposited with us of the same type and with the same Common Code.
This is in accordance with the coordinated Royal Decree No. 62 on the Deposit of Fungible Financial Instruments and
the Settlement of Transactions involving such Instruments and other applicable Belgian legislation.
(b) We may deposit securities with:
a Specialised Depository including:
o
Common Depositories
o
Common Safekeepers
an Other Settlement System (including Clearstream).
The code for each Specialised Depository or Other Settlement System is shown in our securities database.
(c) Certain securities held by us directly in an Other Settlement System are considered specialised to that Other
Settlement System. Those securities may in turn be sub-deposited by the Other Settlement System with its own
depository or Other Settlement System.
(d) If a security is sub-deposited by a Common Depository or Common Safekeeper the sub-depository will not become
a Common Depository or Common Safekeeper. The sub-depository will be responsible for the safekeeping of the
security exclusively to the Common Depository or Common Safekeeper, as applicable.
(e) Certain securities in registered form may be held directly with the issuer (or its agent) without the need for a
Depository.

2.4.2

Your rights

(a) When you deposit securities in the Euroclear System you receive a co-ownership right in a pool of fungible book
entry securities of each category. You have no direct right over any individual certificated or uncertificated securities.
We hold the securities deposited on your behalf but do not acquire any ownership rights over them.
(b) Your co-ownership right is intangible, represented only by a book entry record in your Account recorded on our
books which are located in Belgium. The pool of fungible book-entry securities in which you have such co-ownership
right is located in Belgium on our books and not in the location of the specific underlying securities held by us with any
other Depository or Other Settlement System.
This is in accordance with Section 4 of the Terms and Conditions, Part V: Section 3 (Custody Services) of these
Operating Procedures and applicable Belgian legislation.
(c) We are subject to legal and regulatory requirements on client assets segregation and may not use the financial
instruments deposited with us without having obtained your express prior consent to this effect.

2.5

Disclosure

2.5.1

Authorised disclosure

We are subject to a banking duty of discretion under Belgian law. When you send us information on yourself or your
clients, we keep such information confidential.

February 2016

Page 18

EXE50020

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

However, you authorise us to disclose certain information about you and your participation in the Euroclear System if
required by:
laws and/or regulations applicable to you, us, a Depository, an Other Settlement System or a Cash
Correspondent
provisions of the corporate charter or other constitutional documents of the issuer of securities or under the
terms of the governing documentation of the issue
mandatory provisions of any law or regulation applicable to the holding of securities (or to any payment of
income, principal or any other distribution, or any tax concession or reduction obtained or to be obtained
through the Euroclear System), or pursuant to any agreement, certification or related declaration by you
a court order or instruction received by us, or where applicable, by a third party provider in accordance with
Section 2.12 or 3.9.1, from a court, governmental agency or body, or international regulatory authority of
competent jurisdiction
for investments funds, the request of a fund management company, its agent or the fund itself
a request from issuers for securities
or where otherwise permitted by our banking duty of discretion, applicable under Belgian law.
The information we are required to disclose may include your name, the amount of particular issues of securities you hold
or are recorded on an Account, the amount of cash standing to the credit of any Cash Account, information about your
transactions, recordings of any telephone conversations with you and any other required information.
You hereby represent and warrant that you have informed your employees, contractors and other persons acting on your
behalf of the receipt, collection, processing, possible disclosure and transfer of their personal data by us and of our
purposes for doing so as described above.
In particular, by virtue of a Belgian Royal Decree of 17 July 2013 implementing the Belgian Income Tax code, we must
disclose specific data relating to cash accounts and investment service agreements to the National Bank of Belgium. The
Disclosure must be done on a yearly basis, starting from calendar year 2010.
This information obligation aims at determining the taxable revenues of account holders in order to ensure collection of
all taxes due by the Belgian tax authorities. We have to disclose the following data:
the IBAN number of your cash account(s)
if applicable, the kind of agreement that you have concluded with us
if you are a Belgian entity: your company number
if you are a foreign entity: your full denomination, legal form and country of incorporation.
The data will be kept by the National Bank of Belgium for a period of 8 years from the end of the year for which data is
reported. You have the right to inspect the data (request to be addressed to National Bank of Belgium, division Point de
Contact central/Centraal Aanspreekpunt, Berlaimontlaan 14, 1000 Brussels) and to correct or to remove incorrect data.
The request to correct or remove incorrect data must be addressed to us.

2.5.2

Disclosure to third parties

You authorise us to disclose the following information to third parties, unless you provide us with a written request to the
contrary:
Third party

Which information

Third parties in
general

-

Stock exchanges,
clearing houses, or
other trading
platforms

-

February 2016

-

your name
your participation in the Euroclear
System
your name
your participation in the Euroclear
System
your settlement information

Comments

These are the parties with whom we or you
have contracts with for trading, settlement or
clearing

Page 19

EXE50021

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

Other Participants
and their
representatives

-

Our Depositories
and Other
Settlement Systems

-

A third party with
whom we, or
Euroclear plc, have
announced a joint
venture, merger,
acquisition or other
consolidation
A third party
provider

2.5.3

-

-

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

your name
your participation in the Euroclear
System
your Securities Clearance Account
number(s)
your name
your participation in the Euroclear
System
your Securities Clearance Account
number(s)
your name
your participation in the Euroclear
System
information on your securities and
cash positions and activity

To facilitate the smooth processing of
settlement transactions

any information necessary for the
provision of the outsourced services

These third parties are subject to substantially
the same confidentiality obligations as us

To facilitate the smooth processing of
settlement transactions

These third parties are subject to substantially
the same confidentiality obligations as us

Disclosure to Euroclear group entities

(a) You authorise us to disclose or give access to information about you, your positions and activity in your Accounts to
any other entity of the Euroclear group if information is needed for:
analysis
testing, development or operation of systems
the offering, arranging, managing and provision of products and services of the Euroclear group.
(b) The recipient(s) of such information are authorised to disclose or give access to it to relevant third parties (for
instance consultants and contractors) where it is required to enable the above activities. These third parties will be
subject to confidentiality obligations for such information.

2.6

Audit requirements

As part of our audit procedures we may require you to confirm certain aspects of your operations as a Participant. We
may also require that you evidence them. These requests do not mean you no longer have to reconcile your records as
set out in Section 10 of the Terms and Conditions.

2.7

Calculation of interest

(a) We will determine the interest rates applicable to each Settlement Currency in a Cash Account. According to
prevailing market conditions and best practices, we can modify:
the terms and rates of interest
the interest period
the timing of credit or debit of such interest
any other relevant modalities.
(b) Interest rate information will not be displayed on your Account statements and you waive any right you may have
under applicable law to this effect. We will make such information available to you on request in an appropriate manner.

February 2016

Page 20

EXE50022

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(c) Although credit and debit interest is calculated separately, the two amounts will be netted when applied to each
subdivision of your Cash Account(s). Balances or interest amounts calculated in different Settlement Currencies will not
be netted.
(d) Interest is calculated monthly on a 360 or 365-day basis as per the market practice for each Settlement Currency.
(e) If calculated monthly, the credit/debit interest will be transferred on the fourth Business Day of the following month
for Value Date the first calendar day of such month.

2.8

Exchange rates

(a) We determine in our banking capacity exchange rates that are applied to:
foreign exchange transactions
foreign exchange direct dealing transactions
transfers under Section 16(a) of the Terms and Conditions.
These rates are calculated for each transaction individually.
All other exchanges between Settlement Currencies are effected on the basis of rates applied to all Participants except
as required by applicable exchange controls. The rates are determined each Business Day and derived from quoted bid
and offer rates taken from publicly available information sources.
(b) We will advise you of the exchange rates we will ap

2.9

Claims and compensation

(a) The interest equivalent referred to in Section 16(g) of the Terms and Conditions is determined:
from the day when the payment would have been carried out until the day when it is actually carried out,
subject to Section 16(g) of the Terms and Conditions
on the basis of a year of 360 days
at the debit rate applied to your Cash Account for the relevant period
on the instructed amount of the payment.
(b) In all instances when the concerned payment was made to another Cash Account, compensation will be made in the
form of a Value Date adjustment in the relevant Cash Account(s).

2.10

Value Date

(a) The Value Date is used when calculating:
interest on credit/debit balances in a Cash Account
fees.
(b) The Value Date may be, but is not necessarily, the same as the date of the credit/debit entry.
(c) You agree to waive the application of any law which may alter the Value Date from what is set out above.

February 2016

Page 21

EXE50023

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

2.11

Insurance information

We maintain insurance policies for securities held in the Euroclear System in accordance with the Terms and
Conditions. This insurance coverage is part of the insurance policies contracted for the benefit of the Euroclear group.
Further information is available on request.

2.12

Outsourcing

(a) Some of the services we offer are provided with the help of or are outsourced to third party providers. Such third
party outsourcing may include solutions such as software as a service (SaaS), cloud computing, external hosting or
similar solutions and may be located anywhere in the world (see Section 3.9.1 for more information). You may, upon
request, obtain a list of concerned countries. Such list may change from time to time.
Such solutions will be governed by applicable law relevant to the jurisdiction in which they are carried out or where the
third party provider may be located. They may lead to additional obligations and responsibilities including, but not limited
to, the disclosure of information.
(b) We have put in place Board policies and internal risk procedures to make sure that the necessary steps are taken to
assess and manage any risks that arise from such outsourcing. Amongst other things, we will ensure that security
measures are in place to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of our information and data.

2.13

Fees

2.13.1

General

(a) Fees, expenses and discounts are as set out in the Euroclear Documentation related to tariffs which may be
amended from time to time. The rules contained in tariff documentation should be read together with this Section 2.13.
(b) Fees, expenses and discounts will be debited from your Cash Accounts even if you have defaulted.
(c) If you act as a Borrower in the Securities Lending and Borrowing Program you may be required by law to withhold or
deduct an amount for tax or other duties on your Borrowing. In this case we will alter the fees we bill you for so that the
amount due matches with the amount which would have been due had no withholding been necessary.

2.13.2

Charging fees to other Accounts

You can request that fees due from one of your Cash Accounts be charged to another of your Cash Accounts. This
request should be sent by authenticated SWIFT message. In the absence of such request, fees are charged to the
Cash Account

2.13.3

Calculation dates

Fees are calculated as shown below:
Calculation
Expenses resulting from the physical delivery
of securities

from the 26th of the month to the 25th of the following month
(inclusive of both dates)

Any other fees, expenses or discounts

for the calendar month

February 2016

Page 22

EXE50024

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

2.13.4

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Value calculation

(a) When fees are determined on the basis of the market value of securities, such market value of securities is
calculated by using prices from publicly available information sources generally considered reliable.
We will not be liable for the use of such prices when we make such calculations.
(b) Daily depot values will be based on the result of the RTP dated the Business Day for which the depot value is
calculated.

2.13.5

Minimum fees

If the total amount of gross fees to be debited for the month is less than the relevant minimum amount (as shown in the
tariff documentation), the applicable monthly minimum fee will be charged.
Gross fee amounts to be debited are calculated before the deduction of any rebates. Fee amounts to be credited are
not taken into account.

2.13.6

Additional fees

(a) If your external Instructions remain unmatched or unsettled in a local market and this causes us a loss, we may
charge you a penalty supplemental fee limited to the amount of such loss. You can avoid this by providing us with notice
by authenticated SWIFT message that your Instruction will not match or settle in the relevant market.
Your notice must be sent no later than our Input Deadline for a wire transfer in the currency of the cash counter value in
the relevant Instruction.
(b) Custody Cash Distributions which we do not receive due to your decision to waive your rights to such distribution
(see Section 5.3.1.5.3) may cause us to apply a penalty fee.
(c) We reserve the right to charge you with any additional fees which are imposed on, or paid by us due to your noncompliance with:
local laws
terms of issuance
taxes and/or similar duties.
This includes any interest or penalties associated to such fees.

2.13.7

Automatic fee conversion

(a) When you register with us, you may request that monthly fees are converted into a Settlement Currency of your
choice. This ensures that the monthly fee amount is converted with a Value Date for the same day as the monthly fees.
We must receive your request by 10:00, 4 Business Days before the day of credit/debit of fees in your Cash Account.
(b) The conversion is executed on the day on which the monthly fees are to be credited/debited. Cash is
credited/debited to the appropriate subdivisions of your Cash Account on the day of conversion. The Value Date is the
first Business Day after the date of conversion which is a business day in the countries of both currencies.

February 2016

Page 23

EXE50025

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

February 2016

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Page 24

EXE50026

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Part III: Rights and Responsibilities
3.1

Compliance with local market legislation and governing documentation of issues ....... 27

3.1.1

General ................................................................................................................................................... 27

3.1.2

Holding or transfer restrictions ................................................................................................................ 27

3.1.3

Taxes, similar duties and related interest and penalties .......................................................................... 28

3.1.4

Registered securities............................................................................................................................... 28

3.1.5

Registered or dematerialised Fund Shares ............................................................................................. 29

3.2

Reversals ................................................................................................................................. 30

3.3

Blocking ................................................................................................................................... 31

3.3.1

General rules .......................................................................................................................................... 31

3.3.2

Availability of securities ........................................................................................................................... 31

3.3.3

Blocking by us......................................................................................................................................... 31

3.3.4

Blocking at your request.......................................................................................................................... 32

3.4

Settlement restrictions ........................................................................................................... 32

3.4.1

Securities approaching redemption ......................................................................................................... 32

3.4.2

Specific settlement restrictions ................................................................................................................ 33

3.4.3

Global certificates ................................................................................................................................... 34

3.5

Statutory lien and pledge to our benefit ............................................................................... 34

3.5.1

Statutory lien ........................................................................................................................................... 34

3.5.2

General pledge ....................................................................................................................................... 34

3.6

Special pledged accounts ...................................................................................................... 35

3.7

Securities and cash ................................................................................................................ 35

3.7.1

Securities ................................................................................................................................................ 35

3.7.2

Cash ....................................................................................................................................................... 36

3.8

Rules applicable to defaulted Participants........................................................................... 36

3.9

Use of information and data protection ................................................................................ 37

3.9.1

Our use of information............................................................................................................................. 37

3.9.2

Your use of information ........................................................................................................................... 38

3.10

Confidential information......................................................................................................... 39

3.11

Access to records ................................................................................................................... 39

3.12

Business continuity ................................................................................................................ 39

February 2016

Page 25

EXE50027

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

February 2016

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Page 26

EXE50028

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

3.1

Compliance with local market legislation and
governing documentation of issues

3.1.1

General

(a) We do not monitor your compliance with local laws or with the requirements or conditions shown in the governing
documentation of an issue of securities eligible for our services. It is your responsibility to determine whether such
requirements and/or conditions apply to your holdings of securities and also to ensure your compliance on an ongoing
basis. We have no duty to inform you of such laws or governing documentation, or of any amendments thereof.
(b) You are solely responsible for:
ensuring all applicable legal, tax and regulatory requirements for disclosure or reporting as to holding, control
or beneficial ownership or any other such requirements are met for securities credited, or to be credited to
your Securities Clearance Account(s) or Transit Account(s). This includes any matter which may require your
disclosure, in accordance with Section 2.5, and any matter that relates to information recorded on a NonDeposit Account
informing yourself of the characteristics of the securities you hold, intend to hold or are to be recorded on any
Account in the Euroclear System. This includes, without limitation:
o
o
o
o

special instalment payment provisions
holding or transfer restrictions
foreign ownership limitations
requirements of ownership disclosure.

(c) It is your obligation, as an ongoing condition of participation in the Euroclear System, to comply with any applicable
law, decree, regulation, standard or order of any government, government body (including any court or tribunal) or
international regulatory authority which relates to money laundering or fraud. This includes, without limitation,
obligations to:
identify your customers and verify that identification where required
take reasonable steps to enable suspicious transactions to be recognised
maintain appropriate operational controls
maintain procedures for the reporting of suspicious transactions. This includes reporting validated suspicious
transactions to appropriate authorities where required
maintain appropriate records of customer identification and transactions for a minimum of 5 years
give appropriate training to relevant staff.
(d) We may provide you with information on the application of local laws and governing documentation of securities. We
do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness or timeliness of such information. Reliance on this information is at your
sole risk.
(e) Our services are designed for eligible counterparties and/or professional clients in the sense of MiFID (EU Directive
2004/39), as amended from time to time. Therefore, certain services may be offered only to Participants that qualify as
such.

3.1.2

Holding or transfer restrictions

(a) You must comply with all holding or transfer restrictions which may apply due to your holdings in the Euroclear
System or use of our services. This includes restrictions relating to securities recorded on your Non-Deposit Account.
We accept no liability for any losses you incur due to holding or transfer restrictions:
applicable to securities you hold in the Euroclear System
following your use of our services.

February 2016

Page 27

EXE50029

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(b) In accordance with Section 3.1.1(d) we may include information we have obtained about restrictions on individual
holdings of particular issues in specific markets in the Online Market Guides. We may also use other appropriate means
to inform you of other restrictions. We do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness or timeliness of such information.

3.1.3

Taxes, similar duties and related interest and penalties

If in connection with any receipt (whether actual or proposed), transfer or holding of cash or securities in or into the
Euroclear System or due to your participation in the Euroclear System any taxes, duties, claims, interest, fines,
then:
you must indemnify and hold us harmless for such amounts pro rata the amount of cash or quantity of
securities received (or which would have been received), transferred or held by you
we can immediately debit your Cash Account for such amounts.

3.1.4

Registered securities

Registered securities and dematerialised securities deposited in the Euroclear System are registered in the name of
either:
one of our nominee companies
the Depository for the issue
is the name of a broker or other institution
holding the securities for its customer(s) or the name of a previous holder
another name as we consider appropriate.
The registered name is described in:
the relevant country section of the Online Market Guides
Part V: Section 6 (FundSettle).
(a) To deliver registered securities into the Euroclear System, you must ensure that these securities are registered in
the name shown in:
the relevant country section of the Online Market Guides
Part V: Section 6 (FundSettle).
Alternatively, you must send us the correct transfer instruments for registration in that name.
(b) We accept the same responsibilities as provided in the Terms and Conditions, Supplementary Terms and Conditions
and these Operating Procedures for the acts and omissions of our nominee companies where securities are registered
in their name.
(c)
earance
Account or Transit Account where the securities were first credited is liable for the re-registration of the securities or
their replacement except where stated otherwise in the Online Market Guides.
(d) If the registration of securities you deposit into the Euroclear System or hold via FundSettle requires any fee, tax or
ation, then we have the right to
debit such amount from your Cash Account.
The debit will be for value the Payment Date of such fee, tax or other amount, pro rata the amount of such securities
credited to your Account.
(e) We accept no liability for any delay in, or rejection of registration by the registrar.

February 2016

Page 28

EXE50030

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

3.1.5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Registered or dematerialised Fund Shares

(a) When we hold Fund Shares through a Depository, we may not have received information directly from the Fund on
obligation to obtain or review such information.
Practices of certain Funds may cause their records to differ from ours. Our Depositories are contractually required to
confirm registration for each order processed for us.
In accordance with Section 12 of the Terms and Conditions and without limiting the generality of the previous
provisions, we are not liable for:
a Depository failing to obtain confirmation of the registration of Fund Shares

the Fund
any change of the Fund register made without our consent
any discrepancies that result from your direct dealing with the Fund without sending us appropriate
Instructions
your failure to comply with any transfer restrictions.
(b) We can hold Fund Shares in registered form directly on the books of the Fund or entities acting for the Fund. As
such, we can enter into agreements with these entities.
We accept no liability for the acts and omissions (or bankruptcy or insolvency) of such entities, towards you. We will
take such steps in order to effect a recovery as we deem appropriate under all the circumstances (including without
limitation the bringing and settling of legal proceedings).
(c) Any discrepancies between the records of the Fund and our records which result from your breach of the governing
documentation, any other agreement or instrument (including, without limitation, restrictions on internal or Bridge
transfers) will not give rise to any liability on our part.
(d) Certain Funds require information on internal or Bridge transfers. You are responsible for verifying and complying
with the requirements for each issue of Fund Shares. Failure to follow such requirements can result in the delay or
failure of the processing of your Instructions.
(e) You can send Instructions or orders directly to the Fund for the subscription of new Fund Shares or for the switch or
redemption of Fund Shares held in the Euroclear System. We reserve the right to make exceptions and process your
redemption orders in specific cases (see (f) below).
You can register Fund Shares in our nominee name for subscription or refer, in your orders, to registration in our
nominee name for switches or redemption. This is to the extent that such Instruction or order does not exceed the
amount of Fund Shares held in your Securities Clearance Account and the position recorded on the Fu
when you place the order directly with the Fund.
You are liable for any losses resulting from Instructions or orders sent directly to the Fund. This includes discrepancies
sufficient Fund Shares to cover your Instruction or
order.
(f) For the Transfer Agents or Fund managers listed on our website (my.euroclear.com > My Apps > Knowledge base
and enter: Entity: Euroclear Bank Keyword: Transfer Agent restrictions on the Core) which do not allow you to send
Instructions or orders directly to them for the subscription of new Fund Shares or for the switch or redemption of Fund
Shares held in the Euroclear System, you can send us Instructions or orders in the manner and at the conditions
described in the relevant service description available on our website. By sending us such Instructions or orders, you:

February 2016

Page 29

EXE50031

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

irrevocably constitute and appoint us as your true and lawful agent and attorney in fact for the purpose of:
(i) placing on your behalf such Instructions or orders with the Fund
(ii) instructing the Fund to settle such Instructions or orders against your Account(s)
(iii) instructing a settlement Instruction against payment out of your Account(s) in order to match the
corresponding against payment Instruction instructed by the Fund
acknowledge that you are bound to the terms and conditions, including any indemnity, penalty or similar
provisions, of all documents we execute on your behalf
acknowledge that you will be fully responsible for any liability that may arise as a result of any Instruction or
order we accept on the basis of the above power of attorney.
If, in the process of performing the above actions, any additional information is required, you must provide us with the
information upon request. We are not responsible for any delay in processing your Instructions or orders caused by the
need for additional information.
(g) In accordance with Section 5.6.4.2(b) below, you agree to hold us harmless and indemnify us from and against any
and all claims, demands, liabilities and expenses which may be incurred by or brought or made against us, whether
arising directly or indirectly in connection with our having acted upon your FundSettle Instructions or where we have
otherwise entered into agreements such as those envisaged in Section 5.6.4.2(a).

3.2

Reversals

(a) We can reverse any:
i.

ii.
iii.

iv.

credit or debit which we have made to an Account as a result of an error, regardless whether the error was
made by us, you, another Participant or any other person. You must inform us promptly if you discover an
erroneous entry in your Account(s) and you must not attempt to adjust the entry yourself
provisional credit or debit to any Account if the relevant conditions are not fulfilled (see Section 2.3)
credit or debit to any Account if required by any law, regulation, order, judgement, injunction, asset freeze or
other action of any receiver (including persons fulfilling a similar function), government, court, other
instrumentality of government (including central banks) or international regulatory authority, the legal effect of
which is to require us, or in the case of Bridge settlement, Clearstream, to reverse any credit or debit
in the other circumstances set out elsewhere in these Operating Procedures.

(b) In the event that Clearstream fails to pay us an amount due, we have the right and are authorised by you to debit
your relevant Cash Account(s) for a portion of the unpaid amount due by Clearstream to us.
Your relevant Cash Accounts are those to which credits were previously made as a result of transactions taken into
account to determine the amount due by Clearstream to Euroclear Bank.
The debit is calculated currency by currency in proportion to the amounts credited in the relevant currency in the Cash
Account(s).
The debit will be provisional, subject to the resolution of all claims that may be asserted under the letter of credit
provided by Clearstream under the Bridge Agreement, and any other claims available to us with respect to such failure
to pay.
Such debit or a portion of such debit will become final should we not be able to recover our entire exposure via the letter
of credit provided by Clearstream under the Bridge Agreement, or any other claims available to us with respect to such
failure to pay.
(c) You must indemnify us for any costs (including reasonable fees of counsel), expenses or penalties incurred as a
result of any event described in (a) above. We accept no liability for any losses, including but not limited to fees,
expenses and foreign exchange risks, that result from your use or re-use of a provisional credit.

February 2016

Page 30

EXE50032

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

(d)
l in a Securities Clearance Account which could or
has resulted from a reversal effected in accordance with (a). If it fails to do so, such shortfall will be considered as a
securities loss under Section 17 of the Terms and Conditions.
We may share such loss amongst all Participants holding the relevant securities in the Euroclear System.
We accept no liability for the application of such loss sharing provision in accordance with the Terms and Conditions.
(e) We may make an interest adjustment in respect of any reversal or credit/debit to a Cash Account.
(f) We will inform you of any reversal in any Account and of any interest adjustment made to your Cash Account.

3.3

Blocking

3.3.1

General rules

(a) We may block securities or cash on your Account(s) if we either:
have notice or reasons to believe such action is required under any applicable law, decree, regulation, order
or injunction of any government, court or international regulatory authority
otherwise determine such action is necessary, advisable or in the best interests of the Euroclear System.
(b) We may also block securities or cash on your Account(s) if we deem it necessary to enforce any right we have under
the Terms and Conditions, these Operating Procedures or any other agreement we have with you.

3.3.2

Availability of securities

(a) A sufficient amount of securities must be credited to your Securities Clearance Account to successfully execute any
debit. This is without prejudice to Section 5.3.2.6.
(b) Securities which are blocked or subject to settlement restrictions as described throughout these Operating
Procedures will be unavailable to execute any debit.

3.3.3

Blocking by us

Securities will be blocked in your Securities Clearance Account in, among others, the following circumstances:
When we block

Additional comments

For registered securities in certain domestic markets

If the securities are sent to the registrar for registration
(see the Online Market Guides)

If securities are being realigned

As shown in Section 5.2.4 (External settlement)

If securities due to be debited (following an Instruction)
are in transit

Including any necessary trans-shipments in connection
with the inventory management of the Euroclear System

If securities are being collected in a Securities Clearance
Account to enable an Instruction with a higher priority,
earlier Settlement Date or for a linked instruction
If we deem it necessary for Custody Operations
If securities are subject to a Certification Event and the
Input Deadline for us to receive the certification has been
reached

February 2016

Page 31

EXE50033

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

If securities are subject to a Custody Operation with
default actions which require the blocking of securities

If we receive an Instruction from you informing us not to
take such default actions we will lift the blocking during
the RTP which follows the OSSP of the Business Day
after the Input Deadline

If there is a suspected securities loss or if an event took
place which in our opinion could give rise to a securities
loss (for example, the unwinding of a receipt or delivery
in a local market)

Blocking may be for the entire amount of affected
securities credited to your Account, or in proportion to
the number of securities subject to such suspected or
possible securities loss. You will not be able to exercise
your custody entitlement in such event.
Or
If the Securities Clearance Accounts are not blocked and
we are unable to exercise certain rights (including voting
rights), we may execute, for each Participant, a reduced
number of custody Instructions pro rata to the amount of
shares for which such Participant has sent such custody
Instructions.
For Custody Operations which do not require your
Instruction, the proceeds will be allocated among all
Participants that are entitled to these proceeds in
accordance with the Terms and Conditions and these
Operating Procedures pro rata to the amount of shares
such Participant held in the Euroclear System at the time
the entitlement to these proceeds is determined.

If securities to be credited to your Securities Clearance
Account relate to a delivery Instruction proposed by

Blocking is lifted in accordance with the rules set out in
Section 5.2.3 (Bridge settlement)

Clearstream Delivery Transmission

3.3.4

Blocking at your request

(a) You may instruct us to block securities standing to the credit of, or expected to be credited to, your Securities
Clearance Account(s).
(b) You may instruct us to unblock securities blocked in accordance with (a) provided this is not forbidden by local
market rules or practice. Instructions to unblock partial amounts are not accepted.
(c) Instructions to block and unblock your securities must be received by 10:00 on a Business Day and will be
processed in the OSSP dated the next Business Day.
(d) Your Instructions to block securities will not prevent us from debiting your Account for such securities in accordance
with:
the Terms and Conditions or these Operating Procedures
any other agreements between you and us
any law, regulation, order, judgement, injunction, asset freeze or other action of any receiver (including
persons fulfilling a similar function), government, court, other instrumentality of government (including central
banks), or international regulatory authority.

3.4

Settlement restrictions

3.4.1

Securities approaching redemption

(a) Securities approaching final redemption cease to be available for the execution of:

February 2016

Page 32

EXE50034

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

internal delivery and receipt Instructions, on the redemption date, beginning with the OSSP dated the
redemption date
Online
Market Guides or 7 calendar days before the redemption if no time is outlined in the Online Market Guides.
(b) When there is a reduction of the minimum denomination in which securities approaching partial redemption can be
traded, such securities cease to be available for the execution of Instructions as shown in the below chart.
Instruction Type

When?

External delivery Instructions

7 calendar days before the redemption date

Internal and Bridge delivery Instructions

On the Business Day prior to the redemption date

Collateral management services (which we offer as a
banking service)

In the RTP dated the Business Day prior to the redemption
date

Securities received from execution of an internal receipt Instruction after the time that blocking takes effect will be
credited to a Securities Clearance Account but will be equally blocked.
(c) We reserve the right to make securities approaching partial redemption by drawing unavailable for the execution of
external delivery Instructions at any time between the Business Day before the drawing in the local market and the time
of allocation of drawn securities in the Euroclear System.
The securities will not be available for any other operation or Instruction from the moment we start the allocation
process of drawn securities. The securities remain unavailable until the close of the RTP on the date of the allocation in
the Euroclear System. Any securities credited to the Securities Clearance Account after the start of the allocation
process in the Euroclear System are available for the execution of delivery Instructions.
(d) The rules on availability set out in (a), (b) and (c) also apply to securities with currency or other options.
(e) If we receive notice of any special circumstances which may change the settlement restrictions stated in this Section
3.4.1, we will do our best to inform you, but accept no liability for not doing so.

3.4.2

Specific settlement restrictions

(a) Special circumstances that affect particular issues of securities may result in the complete or partial restriction of the
transfer or delivery of such securities.
(b) Such restrictions may include:
closed books periods prior to interest payments or other Corporate Actions
particular domestic markets restrictions, as shown in the Online Market Guides.
We will hold in the backlog of unexecuted Instructions:
any receipt Instruction we receive before a closed books period for which securities are not received by the
start of the closed books period
any delivery Instruction (other than Bridge delivery) which remains unexecuted at the start of such closed
books period, or received by us during any closed books period.
Internal Instructions (and, unless otherwise indicated, Bridge Instructions) may be executed throughout such closed
books period.
We are not liable for any delay or failure of local settlement or failure to obtain agreement to the matching of Instructions
due to such restrictions.
(c) If you, as an Automatic Borrower, input a Lowest Priority Instruction, no Borrowing will take place to cover a shortfall.

February 2016

Page 33

EXE50035

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

3.4.3

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Global certificates

(a) Only internal and Bridge settlement Instructions may be executed, when an issue exists only in the form of a global
certificate deposited:
in the Euroclear System
with Clearstream
with a Common Safekeeper or Common Depository for us and Clearstream.
It is not possible to execute Instructions for physical deliveries of securities which are in the form of global certificates,
except when and as permitted by the governing documentation of the issue.
If a delivery Instruction for a global certificate cannot be executed, the Instruction will be held in abeyance until the
global certificate is exchanged for definitive certificates.
(b) When an issue only exists in the form of a global certificate deposited in a local clearing system we will only accept
your delivery or receipt Instructions if either:
they are connected with internal or Bridge settlement
the addressee or entity receiving/delivering securities is a member of such local clearing system.

3.5

Statutory lien and pledge to our benefit

3.5.1

Statutory lien

(a) Pursuant to Article 31 of the Belgian Act of August 2, 2002, relating to the Supervision of the Financial Sector and
Financial Services and without prejudice to the Terms and Conditions and any collateral arrangements entered into
between us acting in our banking capacity and you, we are the beneficiary of a statutory lien on:
the balance of all securities credited to each Securities Clearance Account and Transit Account
the balance of all cash standing to the credit of each Cash Account
all rights and entitlements of any Participant in the Euroclear System which are credited to an Account or a
Record-keeping Account.
(b) Without prejudice to the Terms and Conditions and any collateral arrangements entered into between us acting in
our banking capacity and you, we hereby waive the statutory lien referred to in (a) above over the balance of all
securities credited to a Securities Clearance Account which has been separately and expressly identified in writing by
you as an Account to which solely customer securities are credited.
This is unless you agree in writing that the statutory lien should continue to apply to the customer securities credited to
such Securities Clearance Account.
(c) The statutory lien secures any claim we have against you arising in connection with the clearance or the settlement
of transactions through, or in connection with, the Euroclear System, including claims resulting from loans or advances.
If you have agreed that the statutory lien applies to customer securities, the statutory lien on such securities only
secures claims we have against you arising in connection with the clearance or the settlement of transactions through,
or in connection with, the Euroclear System, carried out on behalf of your customers including claims resulting from
loans or advances.

3.5.2

General pledge

In order to secure any claim we have against you which arises in connection with the use of the Euroclear System (in
particular any claim resulting from any extension of credit or conditional credit made in connection with the clearance or
settlement of transactions or custody services), you hereby pledge the following in our favour:

February 2016

Page 34

EXE50036

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

all securities and cash you hold in the Euroclear System
all right, title and interest in and to all such securities and cash
all existing and future contractual claims that you may have against us in connection with the use of the
Euroclear System and in particular your claim to receive from us securities from a local market as a result of
either:
o
stock exchange trade orders where such transactions are automatically fed by the local stock
exchange into the local clearance system
o
receipt Instructions that we send to the local market on your behalf.
This general pledge concerns both your proprietary securities and securities you hold on behalf of your customers.
This general pledge is without prejudice to any collateral arrangements you entered into with us (acting in our banking
capacity) and without prejudice to the statutory lien referred to in Section 3.5.1 above.

3.6

Special pledged accounts

(a) We may open pledged accounts i
We are not required to create a special pledged account under Article 7 of the coordinated Royal Decree No. 62 on the
Deposit of Fungible Financial Instruments and the Settlement of Transactions involving such Instruments. You must
have our prior written consent in order to open such pledged Account.
r

interests in any Account.
(b) You will not pledge or transfer by way of security any right or interest in any of your Accounts without our prior
written consent.

3.7

Securities and cash

3.7.1

Securities

(a)
olvency or failure to comply with the
terms of a security unless required by any law, regulation, order, judgement, injunction, asset freeze or other action of
any receiver (including persons fulfilling a similar function), government, court, other instrumentality of government
(including central banks), or international regulatory authority.
We may, however, in our sole discretion decide to take certain actions as regards your rights in defaulted securities but
we do not accept any liability if we fail to do so or provide inaccurate or incomplete information to you.
For more information see Section 5.3.1.3

Services for securities in default.

(b) We are not obliged to provide tax assistance. We may decide to discontinue our tax services and we accept no
liability for any consequences which follow from such discontinuance.
We accept no liability for the amounts credited as tax relief and the timing of such credit. We do not guarantee the result
of the introduction of a withholding tax refund claim.
You authorise us to debit your Cash Account for any unwarranted benefit that you could receive.
For more information see our website and Section 5.3.2.2.2

Provision of assistance in obtaining tax relief.

(c) When effecting a purchase of securities for your Account in accordance with the Terms and Conditions,
Supplementary Terms and Conditions or these Operating Procedures, we will make reasonable efforts to purchase the
exact amount of securities of the issue that is required, even if such amount is different from the minimum tradable
amount for such security or a multiple of such minimum tradable amount.

February 2016

Page 35

EXE50037

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

If, however, notwithstanding our reasonable efforts, we cannot purchase the exact amount of securities required, we
can purchase such higher amount of securities of the issue as is required to match the minimum tradable amount or
appropriate multiple thereof.
In such an event, the full amount of the securities purchased will be credited to your Securities Clearance Account and
the full expense associated with such purchase will be debited from your Cash Account.
(d) We have the right to reverse any debit or credit to Cash Accounts in respect of market claims for which we have not
received an interest payment. For more information see Section 5.3.2.6.2 Other market claims procedure.

3.7.2

Cash

(a) We reserve the right in our sole discretion and without notice:
not to accept a currency as a Settlement Currency within the Euroclear System
to withdraw acceptance of any Settlement Currency previously accepted
to refuse any deposit into the Euroclear System of a Settlement Currency regardless of any deposit of other
cash in the same Settlement Currency, or to deliver out of the Euroclear System to any Participant holding
such cash in the Euroclear System, if we determine that acceptance of any deposit in such Settlement
Currency would not be in the best interests of Participants generally or of the Euroclear System.
(b) We have the right to appoint or disable a Cash Correspondent upon notice to you. Any payment made through a
disabled Cash Correspondent is deemed not to have been received by us. See Section 5.4.2.1 Cash Correspondents.
(c) If you fail to preadvise funds or to correctly preadvise funds, you authorise us to debit your Cash Account for an
amount of compensation calculated in accordance with the method provided in Section 5.4.2.5.4. If your preadvised
funds are not received, we may apply supplemental penalty fees.
(d) If you hold funds, or funded your Cash Account, in a Settlement Currency then you bear the risk of default of the
Cash Correspondent to which the funds have been remitted to the extent that either:
funds credited have not been preadvised or have been incorrectly preadvised by you
funds credited are in excess of the amount you preadvised
the preadvice of funds has been received after the relevant Input Deadline as included in the Euroclear
Documentation.
For more information see Section 5.4.2.5.4.2.

3.8

Rules applicable to defaulted Participants

(a) The rules set out throughout the Terms and Conditions and these Operating Procedures apply equally to defaulted
Participants represented by an appointed administrator, liquidator or similarly appointed entity or legal successor.
Such default can be caused by either:
the Participant being unable to fulfil its obligations under the terms of the Euroclear Documentation or
agreements to which they are bound

(b) Upon your default, we have the right to retain cash or securities up to an amount which we in our reasonable opinion
believe, based on the portfolio composition and history of occurrence of default of the issuer of such securities, will
cover any amount due or that may become due to us by you.
This provision applies regardless of whether the event which gives rise to the payment obligation has taken place. We
are entitled to retain cash and/or securities as long as there is a risk that such an event may occur.

February 2016

Page 36

EXE50038

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

(c) Our rights relate in particular to reversals, payments connected to a market claim, taxes, fees, penalties and

For more information see Section 3.2
Section 2.13 Fees.

Reversals, Section 5.3.2.6

Market claims, Section 5.3.2.2

3.9

Use of information and data protection

3.9.1

Our use of information

Taxes and

(a) In addition to Section 2.5 and without prejudice to this Section 3.9.1, you authorise us to use information:
you have provided to us
related to you and your activities in the Euroclear System
where such information is necessary for our activities and/or our services.
You specifically authorise us to use information relating to positions or movements in your Securities Clearance
Account(s) to enable the repurchase of securities in accordance with the Terms and Conditions, Supplementary Terms
and Conditions and these Operating Procedures.
(b) We may receive, collect and process personal data involving or relating to people employed by and/or associated
with you, beneficiaries of Accounts administered by you and other persons involved in your admission procedure.
This personal data will be used for:
managing your admission procedure
administering your Account(s)
providing services to you
contacting and communicating effectively with you
other related purposes including direct marketing and handling of claims/litigation whether in Belgium or
abroad.
Personal data may be passed on to other Euroclear entities or third party service providers (including third party
the above purposes.
Such entities or third party providers of IT solutions may be located in any country of the world, including in countries
outside the European Economic Area, which do not offer a level of protection of personal data equivalent to that offered
by the personal data protection EU legislation and implementing national legislation. Local laws where such entities,
third party providers and/or providers of IT solutions are established or located may imply that local authorities (for
example, court, governmental agency or body of competent jurisdiction) can access your personal data. You may, upon
your request, obtain from us the most up-to-date list of such countries. Such list may change from time to time.
In any case, we will ensure that the transfer of personal data complies with applicable EU and Belgian personal data
protection law where such entities, third party providers and/or providers of IT solutions and any other recipients
mentioned under Section 2.5 are established or located outside the European Economic Area in countries which do not
offer a level of data protection equivalent to that offered by the EU personal data protection legislation and implementing
national legislation.
We will allow individuals to access, and, if shown to be incorrect, rectify their personal data in accordance with
applicable EU and Belgian personal data protection law.
You hereby represent and warrant that you have informed your employees, contractors and other persons acting on
your behalf of the receipt, collection, processing and transfer of their personal data by us and of our purposes for doing
so as well as their right to request access to their personal data and their correction in the event of inaccuracies.

February 2016

Page 37

EXE50039

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

For the purpose of this provision, personal data includes all data pertaining to an identified or identifiable natural person,
including, without limitation, names, contact details and other associated data such as the recording of phone
conversations as set out in these Operating Procedures.
(c) To the extent permitted by applicable law, we may record telephone conversations with you for the purpose of proof
of existence, timing and content of commercial transactions or related professional communication with you.
The recordings will be stored for a period of time that does not exceed the period during which the relevant transaction
can be contested in justice.
You represent and warrant that you have properly informed all individuals acting on your behalf of such telephone
conversation recording for such purposes and for such duration as mentioned above.
By using the Euroclear System, you agree for yourself and for all individuals acting on your behalf to the recording of
telephone conversations with us in accordance with the foregoing.

3.9.2

Your use of information

(a) You may use information we provide exclusively to support your primary business and your Euroclear related
activities. Be aware that we receive information from various third party information providers and as such we do not
guarantee the accuracy, adequacy, completeness, timeliness or availability of such information.
We are not responsible for any errors or omissions or for the results obtained from your use of such information or for
any lost profits, indirect, special or consequential damages.
Unless you ha
be repackaged, further transmitted, transferred, disseminated, distributed, redistributed, sold, resold, leased, rented,
licensed, sublicensed, altered, modified and/or adapted.
Information received from us must not be used for any illegal purpose.
You will take all reasonable steps to ensure that your officers, directors, employees, representatives, contractors and
agents comply with this section.
(b) You agree and acknowledge the following:
certain information received from us is, and remains, valuable intellectual property owned by, or licensed to us
and/or a third party information provider. No proprietary rights are transferred to you
misappropriation or misuse of such information may cause damage to us and/or a third party information
provider so that monetary damages may not provide sufficient compensation
in the event of misappropriation or misuse, we, and/or the third party information provider, have the right to
obtain injunctive relief in addition to other remedies to which we or they are entitled.
(c) Most issuers of securities rated by ratings agencies have, prior to assignment of a rating, agreed to pay the relevant
rating agency. Relevant ratings agencies and their affiliated entities maintain policies and procedures to ensure the
independence of their ratings and rating processes.
With respect to the use of ratings by rating agencies, you agree that:
credit ratings and other opinions we provide are statements of opinion and not facts or recommendations to
purchase, hold or sell any securities
behalf
you will make your own study and evaluation of each security and of any issuer, guarantor and provider of
credit support for securities that you consider purchasing, holding or selling
we are not responsible for the accuracy, adequacy, completeness, timeliness or availability of information we
provide that is derived from data supplied by rating agencies.

February 2016

Page 38

EXE50040

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

3.10

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Confidential information

(a) You must take all necessary precautions when sending us confidential information. You agree to maintain the
confidentiality of confidential information received from us.
(b) We may store, reproduce, download or transmit confidential information through any website, internet server or other
secured means for your use or retrieval. We will use adequate security, encryption and authentication
procedures/software to prevent any unauthorised third party disclosure.
(c) We may transmit or accept confidential information by means we deem appropriate to and from Participants,
Depositories, Other Settlement Systems, Cash Correspondents or third parties if:
we consider it necessary to provide our services
this is consistent with market practices
there is no other means of transmitting or receiving such confidential information
there is a contingency situation.
(d) We accept no liability for the consequences of a third party intercepting confidential information or when we or any
third party service provider are required to disclose confidential information in accordance with Sections 2.5, 2.12 or
Section 3.9.1(b).

3.11

Access to records

(a) Upon your reasonable request, we may grant you access to our premises and may allow you to view your accounts
opened in our electronic books and records, all of this in the presence and under the control of members of our staff.
We may also provide you copies of such books and records, at you own expenses.
(b) We are available during normal business hours to discuss these Operating Procedures and any internal control and
reconciliation systems that we have in place.
(c) You can find further information on our financial situation and internal controls on our website, including:
our annual accounts and report
the ISAE 3402 report.

3.12

Business continuity

(a) We maintain a business continuity framework that describes:
roles and responsibilities
standards and guidelines
incident management checklists
crisis management checklists
standardised departmental plans
the risk-based approach we adopted.
(b) Our business continuity framework includes business continuity plans based on various scenarios impacting our
staff, offices and IT services, enabling us to recover from a disaster and continue providing services to you within
reasonable recovery time objectives.
We intend for our business continuity plans to comply with the CPSS-IOSCO Principles for Financial Market
Infrastructures (April 2012).

February 2016

Page 39

EXE50041

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(c) We test our business continuity arrangements at least annually.
(d) You can find further information on business continuity in the ISAE 3402 report, which is published on our website:
IT and office recovery strategies
the hierarchical framework for decision
recovery requirements by department
communication contact lists with the main internal and external stakeholders (employees, clients, external
providers, public authorities and media).

February 2016

Page 40

EXE50042

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Part IV: Connectivity
4.1

To Euroclear Bank .................................................................................................................. 43

4.1.1

General rules .......................................................................................................................................... 43

4.1.1.1

Our address........................................................................................................................................ 44

4.1.1.2

Deemed receipt .................................................................................................................................. 44

4.1.1.3
4.1.2

Authorised signatories for Instructions by mail, courier or fax ............................................................. 45
Means of sending Instructions................................................................................................................. 45

4.1.2.1
4.1.2.2
4.1.3

Standard messaging formats.............................................................................................................. 45
Exceptional circumstances ................................................................................................................. 48
Deadlines for Instructions........................................................................................................................ 49

4.1.3.1

General rules...................................................................................................................................... 49

4.1.3.2

Input Deadlines .................................................................................................................................. 49

4.1.4

Processing and validation of Instructions ................................................................................................ 50

4.1.4.1

Processing of Instructions .................................................................................................................. 50

4.1.4.2

Validation of Instructions .................................................................................................................... 50

4.1.4.3

Validation of data fields ...................................................................................................................... 50

4.1.4.4

Use of code numbers ......................................................................................................................... 50

4.1.4.5

Use of decimals.................................................................................................................................. 51

4.1.4.6
4.1.5

Notification of invalid Instructions ....................................................................................................... 51
Cancellation and modification of Instructions .......................................................................................... 51

4.1.5.1

Cancellation by us .............................................................................................................................. 51

4.1.5.2

Cancellation by you ............................................................................................................................ 51

4.1.5.3

Modification of Instructions ................................................................................................................. 52

4.2

From Euroclear Bank .............................................................................................................. 52

4.2.1

General rules .......................................................................................................................................... 52

4.2.2

Deemed receipt....................................................................................................................................... 52

4.2.3

Reports ................................................................................................................................................... 53

4.2.3.1

Availability and content ....................................................................................................................... 53

4.2.3.2

Official reports .................................................................................................................................... 53

4.2.3.3

Reports provided to auditors............................................................................................................... 53

4.2.4

List of Participants................................................................................................................................... 53

4.2.5

Information published online ................................................................................................................... 54

4.2.6

Statements of movements in Transit Accounts, Record-keeping Accounts and Non-Deposit Accounts.. 54

February 2016

Page 41

EXE50043

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

February 2016

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Page 42

EXE50044

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

4.1.

To Euroclear Bank

4.1.1.

General rules

(a) You can communicate with us in the ways shown below.
General connectivity

Instructions

SWIFT

SWIFT

EUCLID

EUCLID

EasyWay

EasyWay

ESSC

ESSC

Mail

Mail

Telex

Telex

Fax

Fax*

Email

Email*

Courier

Courier

Telephone
*in exceptional circumstances only
(b) We may accept (i) scanned copies of duly signed forms and documents and (ii) forms and documents which are
signed with a copy (or scan) of an original signature. You will be bound by such forms and documents as though they
were the original forms or documents.
(c) Certain forms and documents may be completed and submitted through our website. In order to express your
agreement to the content and submission of such forms and documents you have to sign, scan and submit by email a
confirmation with a unique identifier which will also appear on the form.
You agree that such confirmation constitutes proof of your agreement to the content and submission of the relevant
forms or documents.
(d) Certain forms and documents may be completed and submitted through SWIFT messages. In order to express your
agreement to the content and submission of such forms and documents you have to entirely copy the relevant form or
document wording in your SWIFT message without deleting or omitting any part of it.
You agree that
such forms or documents completed and submitted through SWIFT message constitute proof of your
agreement to the content and submission of the relevant forms or documents
any deletion or omission of (part of) the wording of the relevant form or document will be considered
as an involuntary mistake and any deleted or omitted part of such wording will be considered as agreed by you
and forming an integral part of the agreed form or document
you are solely responsible for ensuring that the forms or documents completed and submitted through SWIFT
messages have been duly authorised internally.
(e) You are solely responsible for ensuring that you have the necessary internal security controls to enable safe and
secure communication and compliance with (b) through (d) above.
We will treat as authentic any forms and documents (including Instructions) sent to us which comply with the procedures
above.
(f) We have no responsibility for the acts or omissions of any supplier of network or other services in respect of the
operation, availability or access to any of the communication tools described in this Part IV.

February 2016

Page 43

EXE50045

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

4.1.1.1

Our address

(a) All Instructions and communications must be addressed to:
Euroclear Bank SA/NV
(Department concerned see below)
1, boulevard du Roi Albert II
B 1210 Brussels
Belgium
Telephone:

+32 2 326 1211

Telex:

Belgium 61025
Answerback MGTEC B

BIC:

MGTC BE BE ECL or MGTC BE BE

Email

available at my.euroclear.com > My Apps > Contacts

(b) Each Instruction or other communication must carry the following general header:
department concerned, as shown in the Euroclear Documentation
name and location of sender
Account number of sender (if not included in the message text).
(c) Instructions and other communication intended for more than one department must be sent by separate messages
to each department.

4.1.1.2

Deemed receipt

Your Instructions or communications are deemed to be received by us on any Business Day:
Communication type

Deemed receipt

If sent by EUCLID or SWIFT straight-through

when you receive validation results which do not indicate
rejection or the need for further validation

If sent by SWIFT free format

when the message is received at our SWIFT address (see
BIC code above) and the client receives the status report
(e.g.MT567, MT548) to confirm the status of the transaction

If sent using EasyWay

when
the EasyWay documentation

If sent using ESSC

when the file is uploaded

If sent by mail or courier

when physically received at our address

If sent by telex

when you receive the appropriate answer back from us

If sent by fax

when received at our address

If sent by email

when received at our email address

February 2016

Page 44

EXE50046

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

4.1.1.3

Authorised signatories for Instructions by mail, courier or fax

(a) When you become a Participant in the Euroclear System you must provide us with a list of your authorised
informing us of any changes to this list. Changes must be sent in writing with appropriate supporting documents.
(b) We require 2 authorised signatures for Instructions sent by mail, courier or fax. When signing a document you must
also print the signatories name in capital letters to help us identify it. We are under no obligation to verify the identity of
person(s) giving the Instructions or the conformity of their signatures with the list of authorised signatories you send.
(c) We reserve the right not to process Instructions received via mail, courier or fax which contain a signature that in our
opinion does not appear on the provided signatory list.
(d) We may require you to send replacement Instructions if we deem that your initial Instructions are not signed by an
authorised signatory. If you fail to provide such further Instructions by the Input Deadline we specify or within 10
Business Days, your Instructions will lapse.

4.1.2.

Means of sending Instructions

4.1.2.1.

Standard messaging formats

4.1.2.1.1.

SWIFT

(a) If you wish to communicate with us by SWIFT then you must enter into an agreement with us whereby you agree to
the rules for use of the service. These rules are set out throughout the Euroclear Documentation. In particular, you must
confirm that transmissions sent through SWIFT will be protected by the SWIFT built-in authentication procedures.
(b) You use SWIFT at your own risk and expense. We accept no liability in respect of the operation or availability of
SWIFT.
(c) By using SWIFT you agree that any transmissions you send to us will conform to:
current formats and procedures as specified by SWIFT
any additional requirements that we specify.
(d) You must verify that you can meet all the processing requirements for transmission of Instructions/messages
including:
those described in the Euroclear Documentation or SWIFT Specifications (including security requirements)
your own internal control procedures.
(e) An authenticated free format message containing Instructions will be processed as though it were a telex Instruction
(unless stated otherwise in the Euroclear Documentation). It must comply with the requirements for telex Instructions set
forth in these Operating Procedures and throughout the Euroclear Documentation.
4.1.2.1.2.

EUCLID

(a) If you wish to communicate with us by EUCLID then you must enter into an agreement with us whereby you agree to
the rules for use of the service. These rules are set out throughout the Euroclear Documentation. You should familiarise
yourself with the rules included in the following legally binding guides:
Communication Platform

Guide

EUCLID PC

EUCLID PC - Installation and Technical Administration Guide

EUCLID PC

EUCLID PC - Getting started

EUCLID Server

EUCLID Server - Technical Administration Guide

EUCLID Server

EUCLID Server

February 2016

Installation Guide

Page 45

EXE50047

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUCLID PC & EUCLID Server

IP connection guide

EUCLID file transfer

EUCLID file transfer connection manual

EUCLID

IP Network and security guide - EUCLID

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(b) It is your sole responsibility to:
ensure that you select the most appropriate EUCLID access mode for your own operational requirements
comply with the security requirements for EUCLID.
(c) By signing the relevant registration form(s) you are deemed to have agreed to the terms and conditions of the
EUCLID PC, EUCLID Server and/or EUCLID file transfer agreement
(d) You must ensure that you use the most recent version of EUCLID PC and or EUCLID Server and that you update
your local databases on a regular basis.
(e) Any Instruction we receive from you which has passed through the EUCLID access authentication procedures will be
treated as authentic for all purposes.
EUCLID Access
(f) Your access to EUCLID is controlled by the use of:
a network user number and password
a EUCLID User number and password.
This set of identification procedures is designed to maintain the external and internal security and confidentiality of your
operations when using EUCLID.
(g) EUCLID can be accessed using either:
EUCLID PC
EUCLID Server
EUCLID file transfer mode
EUCLID interactive mode
a combination of the above modes.
(h) We can discontinue EUCLID access:
immediately if we have reason to believe that you have misused your access or your use threatens the
network
with reasonable notice to you if you no longer use your EUCLID access and/or have not updated your EUCLID
PC and/or EUCLID server version.
EUCLID User hierarchies
(i) You must spec
Administrator has access to a single permanent network user number and EUCLID User number allocated by us. The
associated network and EUCLID passwords are initially allocated by us but automatically change upon first connection.
They then remain encrypted in the local EUCLID database at your premises.

transfer, you will be prompted to change the passwords allocated by us roughly every 30 calendar days.
(j)
network user number and EUCLID User number as allocated by us. The associated network and EUCLID passwords
are initially allocated by the EUCLID Administrator but automatically change upon your first connection. The EUCLID

February 2016

Page 46

EXE50048

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

The EUCLID Administrator can assign the following to any EUCLID User:
any EUCLID service
access type
Securities Clearance Account
Cash Account
any function to which it has access (other than the creation of other EUCLID Users).
This enables the EUCLID Administrator to manage EUCLID security by such segregation. They can also lock and
unlock the access facility for a EUCLID User. A locked EUCLID Administrator can only be unlocked by a Euroclear Bank
data security administrator.
4.1.2.1.3.

EasyWay

(a) If you wish to communicate with us by EasyWay then you must enter into an agreement with us whereby you agree
to the rules for use of the service. These rules are set out throughout the Euroclear Documentation. You should
familiarise yourself with the rules included in the following legally binding guides:
Communication platform

Guide

EasyWay
EasyWay
EasyWay

Corporate Actions user guide
Settlement user guide
Collateral Management user guide

EasyWay

User access management guide

EasyWay

How to connect to EasyWay guide

EasyWay

Getting started Quick Card

EasyWay

Connectivity Quick Card

(b) It is your sole responsibility to ensure that you:
select the most appropriate EasyWay access mode for your own operational requirements
select which network provider you will use, and whether to use more than one (you should contact and
contract with the relevant network providers directly)
use the most recent software version of the Web PKI component we provide to manage Euroclear Bank
smartcards.
(c) Instructions which pass the EasyWay authentication procedures will be treated as authentic for all purposes.
Instructions sent through EasyWay must be authorised before they are released in accordance with the user access
rules you define.
(d) We do not guarantee:
the accuracy and/or consistency of communication or data sent through EasyWay
the availability of the service at all times (there are specific periods of planned downtime as shown in the
Euroclear Documentation).
You should establish sufficient contingency arrangements to send Instructions and messages to us in case EasyWay is
unavailable.
(e) We make an effort to protect any communication or Instruction received through EasyWay. Despite this, we cannot
guarantee the integrity and security of messages sent through the internet and we accept no liability for any data
corruption or unauthorised amendment.
4.1.2.1.4.

ESSC

(a) If you wish to communicate with us by ESSC then you must enter into an agreement with us whereby you agree to
the rules for use of the service. These rules are set out throughout the Euroclear Documentation. You should familiarise
yourself with the rules included in the following legally binding guides:

February 2016

Page 47

EXE50049

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

Communication platform

Guide

ESSC
ESSC

Connectivity Quick Card
Setup guide

ESSC

User access management guide

ESSC

User guide French FTT Service

(b) It is your sole responsibility to ensure that you:
select the most appropriate ESSC access mode for your own operational requirements
select which network provider you will use, and whether to use more than one (you should contact and
contract with the relevant network providers directly)
comply with the security requirements for ESSC.
(c) Instructions which pass the ESSC authentication procedures will be treated as authentic for all purposes.
Instructions sent through ESSC must be authorised before they are released in accordance with the user access rules
you define.
(d) We do not guarantee:
the accuracy and/or consistency of communication or data sent through ESSC
the availability of the service at all times (there are specific periods of planned downtime as shown in the
Euroclear Documentation).
You should establish sufficient contingency arrangements to send Instructions and messages or files to us in case
ESSC is unavailable.
(e) We make an effort to protect any communication or Instruction received through ESSC. Despite this, we cannot
guarantee the integrity and security of messages or files sent through the internet and we accept no liability for any data
corruption or unauthorised amendment.
4.1.2.1.5.

Mail

We may accept Instructions sent by mail in accordance with Section 4.1.1.3.
4.1.2.1.6.

Telex

(a) We will provide you with a telex authenticating chart once you enter the Euroclear System. There are no other test
key arrangements for the Euroclear System. You must test all Instructions sent by telex.
(b) Instructions sent by telex will not be considered for processing in the Euroclear System until a correct and complete
authenticating test key is received.
(c) Subject to passing the relevant authentication procedures, any test key we receive will be treated as authentic for all
purposes. We will notify you of any incorrect test key. The correct test key must be communicated before the relevant
Input Deadline. If the correction allowing authentication or cancellation is not received by the second Business Day after
the notification, the Instruction will lapse.
(d) Telex transmissions must be complete prior to the relevant Input Deadline in order to be processed.

4.1.2.2.

Exceptional circumstances

4.1.2.2.1.

Email and fax

(a) Except as otherwise described throughout these Operating Procedures, we only accept Instructions by email or fax
in what we deem to be exceptional circumstances. We may accept Instructions received via email or fax if we believe

February 2016

Page 48

EXE50050

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

such Instruction to be genuine and submitted by you or on your behalf. We are not obliged to verify the identity of the
person giving the Instructions.
(b) We are not liable for acting upon your email or fax Instruction after subsequently receiving contradictory Instructions
you send by EUCLID, SWIFT, EasyWay, ESSC or mail.
Our acts or omissions taken in relation to Instructions received from you via email or fax will not be affected by your
failure to confirm their validity by EUCLID, SWIFT, EasyWay, ESSC or mail.
(c) Reproductions of email Instructions from our internal site records will act as valid evidence of such Instructions.

4.1.3.

Deadlines for Instructions

4.1.3.1.

General rules

(a) We must receive your Instructions by the relevant Input Deadlines. Input Deadlines are described on our website, in
DACE notices and uninstructed reminders we send to you and below. In the event of discrepancy, the information
contained in DACE notices will take precedent.
(b) It is your responsibility to take into account holidays in the relevant local market when inputting your Instructions on
any particular Business Day.
(c) We may try to process Instructions received or validated after an Input Deadline but accept no liability for:
our failure to execute such an Instruction
errors or omissions resulting from our processing of the Instruction
our delay in doing so.
(d) If we accept a late Instruction, we are not obliged to do so again in the future.

4.1.3.2.

Input Deadlines

Input Deadlines are as follows:
Instruction Type
Mail, fax or SWIFT free format

Input Deadline (or appropriate document)
As set out in the Euroclear Documentation

New Issues Instructions
EUCLID or SWIFT straight-through

Internal settlement

EUCLID or SWIFT straight-through

Bridge settlement

External Settlement Instructions

As shown in the relevant DACE notice or on our website

Money Transfer Instructions

FundSettle Instructions

February 2016

website

our website)

Custody Operations Instructions

EUCLID or SWIFT straight-through
Borrowing Instructions

website

website)
Lending and

website
As shown in the FundSettle Browser

Page 49

EXE50051

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

4.1.4.

Processing and validation of Instructions

4.1.4.1.

Processing of Instructions

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Except as agreed in writing with us or as otherwise documented in these Operating Procedures we will:
act as instructed in respect of your Accounts
process your Instructions for the amount of securities or cash instructed by you (provided sufficient securities
and cash are available)
process your Instructions on Business Days only.

4.1.4.2.

Validation of Instructions

(a) The format of Instructions and reports for each method of communication follows recommendations from the
International Organisation for Standardisation (I.S.O) to the extent possible. We accept no liability for where we have
not followed the recommendations.
(b) Only Instructions which conform to the requirements described in the Euroclear Documentation or which we deem
suitable for processing will be considered valid and accepted for processing.
(c) If you send an incomplete or incorrect Instruction, we may repair it for you if we have the required information and
reasonably believe you intended to supply a valid Instruction. We deem such an Instruction received once we have
repaired it.
We accept no liability for the processing of repaired Instructions.
(d) If you have sent us a valid Instruction that has been incidentally rejected by us, we may repair it for you.
In case we have repaired your Instruction we will inform you thereof either by phone or by email. However, if your
Instruction has been repaired by us and you wish to:
cancel it: you must act in accordance with the rules set out in Section 4.1.5.2. below;
modify it: you must act in accordance with the rules set out in Section 4.1.5.3 below.
(e) We accept no liability for failing to process Instructions that are received 5 months prior to their Value Date or
processing date. This is regardless of us having accepted such Instructions for future validation/processing or their
conformity with the rules set out in (b) above.
We may accept and retain such Instructions for future validation/processing but accept no liability for either doing or not
doing so.

4.1.4.3.

Validation of data fields

(a) Mandatory, conditional and operational data fields in Instructions are submitted to a computer validation process.
Some Instructions may require further manual validation.
(b) A required data field that is found to be invalid will cause an entire Instruction to be rejected. For money transfer
Instructions this is subject to the provisions set out in Section 5.4.2.4.4.
(c) Instructions that contain all relevant and correctly formatted items of information will be accepted for further
processing despite superfluous data being provided. We ignore any data outside validated fields which is included in an
Instruction.

4.1.4.4.

Use of code numbers

(a) Code numbers are used to identify:
Accounts
securities
February 2016

Page 50

EXE50052

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

counterparties
Cash Correspondents
Depositories
other parties involved in the execution of an Instruction.
(b) You must enter Instructions in the Euroclear System using a code number (as shown in the relevant Euroclear
Documentation). Information on BIC codes is contained in Database 4: I.S.O. Bank Identifier Codes and can be
accessed as described in the Euroclear Documentation.
(c) If you enter a number that is not used as a code number in the Euroclear System we can try to select the code
number which is used in the Euroclear System that corresponds with your incorrect entry. We accept no liability for
delay or any consequence of our failure or error in doing so.
(d) If you enter a code number used in the Euroclear System and a description/code number not used in the Euroclear
System, which does not match a correct code number, we will base our processing on the Euroclear System code
number.
(e) We give you the option of using BIC or local codes. We translate such codes into code numbers used in the
Euroclear System. We base such translation on a dictionary of information provided by external service providers and
validate whether or not the BIC or local code input by you is recognised by the dictionary. We then process the
Instruction accordingly.
We do not guarantee that the dictionary is up-to-date, complete, accurate or always available. Consequently,
Instructions input with a BIC or local code may be rejected. To avoid this risk you should not use BIC or local codes.

4.1.4.5.

Use of decimals

(a) Cash amounts in Instructions and reports are expressed to two decimal places in the Euroclear System. Any further
decimal places are ignored (without rounding).
(b) Securities on the FundSettle platform are expressed as described in Part V: Section 6 of these Operating
Procedures.

4.1.4.6.

Notification of invalid Instructions

We will notify you if we find any of your Instructions are invalid as soon as practicable but do not guarantee the
timeliness of any such notification.

4.1.5.

Cancellation and modification of Instructions

4.1.5.1.

Cancellation by us

We may, at any stage, refuse to process your Instructions or cancel them. We will inform you via our reports if we refuse
or cancel your Instruction and take no other action. The same rules apply for lapsed Instructions which are subsequently
cancelled.

4.1.5.2.

Cancellation by you

(a) You may only cancel (or modify the priorities of) Instructions which have been received and validated by us but not
yet executed.
(b) We must receive your cancellation Instructions before the Input Deadline of the original Instruction. Cancellation
Instructions must conform to the requirements described throughout the Euroclear Documentation. Instructions become
irrevocable at the Input Deadline provided that no cancellation Instruction has been received in accordance with this
Section before such Input Deadline.

February 2016

Page 51

EXE50053

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

(c) If, due to the original course of processing (e.g. we have sent your Instruction to the Depository, Cash
Correspondent, issuer or agent), we are unable to revoke your initial Instruction, we reserve the right to reject your
cancellation Instruction.
(d) You cannot cancel Instructions generated by us.

4.1.5.3.

Modification of Instructions

Except as provided in Section 5.2.1 (Processing rules) you cannot modify a valid Instruction (except the priority). In
order to modify a valid Instruction you must cancel the original Instruction and submit a new Instruction (except for
priority modifications for Instructions which have not reached the end of their life cycle). We can only submit your new
Instruction to the relevant local market once the cancellation of your original Instruction has been processed on said
local market.

4.2.

From Euroclear Bank

4.2.1.

General rules

(a) You may receive communication from us by:
General connectivity
SWIFT
EUCLID
EasyWay
ESSC
Mail
Telex
Fax
Email
Internet
Courier
Telephone
(b) Upon your request we will make a reasonable effort to communicate information to you via a courier service of your
choice. We accept no liability for failure to do so, delay, loss of documents or any other consequence of acting upon
your request.
(c) We require your up-to-date address to enable successful communication. It is your responsibility to inform us of any
changes to your contact details. Notification of changes must be in writing under authorised signature, via authenticated
SWIFT message, by tested telex or on a duly signed letterhead.

4.2.2.

Deemed receipt

You are deemed to have received communication sent by us as shown in the table below.
Communication type

Deemed receipt

SWIFT

when the message is sent to the correct SWIFT address (as
set out in the agreement for SWIFT users) and
acknowledgement is received from SWIFT

EUCLID

when our back office database (tandem) has been updated. It
is up to you to pull the report and synchronise your local
database

February 2016

Page 52

EXE50054

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EasyWay

when the information is available to you on the screen

ESSC

when you trigger the download

Mail or courier

5 calendar days after being deposited in the mail, postage
prepaid or after having been delivered to the courier

Telex

when you receive the appropriate answer back from us

Fax

when the transmission report indicates your receipt

Email

on the Business Day the email is sent or, if sent outside of
business hours, on the following Business Day (am)

If communicated via our website

on the upload date

4.2.3.

Reports

4.2.3.1.

Availability and content

(a) We will report activity within the Euroclear System to you through the reports and at the times shown in the
Euroclear Documentation. Some reports are only provided if you have registered for a specific service. Subscription and
registration details for such services are available on request.
(b) SWIFT Specifications form an integral part of the Euroclear Documentation. In order to receive certain reports based
on the SWIFT Specifications you must first subscribe by completing, signing and returning the appropriate registration
form.
(c) If you use EUCLID you must ensure you retrieve the most recent reports available from EUCLID.
(d) You acknowledge that data in reports sent by email may be of a confidential nature and that emails, by their nature,
may be intercepted, altered by or misdirected to third parties. You agree that the use of emails in this respect is at your
own risk. We accept no liability for any consequence arising from the use of emails for the purpose of sending these
reports.

4.2.3.2.

Official reports

The official statements of balance for your Account(s) are:
For securities

the most recent paper (non-electronic) version of the
Statement of Transactions sent, or to be sent to you, via mail

For Settlement Currencies

the most recent paper (non-electronic) version of the Daily
Cash Statement sent, or to be sent to you, via mail

Our right to reverse erroneous, conditional or provisional entries is not modified by receipt of these official reports.

4.2.3.3.

Reports provided to auditors

If we receive a request, duly authorised by you, from your auditors we will provide them with all aspects of your position
via a standard report. We will also send you a copy of the report upon your request.

4.2.4.

List of Participants

(a) Periodically we may send you a directory of Participant, counterparty and correspondent codes. This directory also
includes a list of Participants and their Securities Clearance Account numbers.
We can make this information available through the relevant Euroclear Documentation or another appropriate medium.

February 2016

Page 53

EXE50055

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(b) You can request that your name and Security Clearance Account number(s) are withheld from such documentation.

4.2.5.

Information published online

(a) Some information is available through our websites. While we produce or obtain such information from publicly
available sources generally considered reliable, we cannot verify its accuracy or completeness. You should not rely on
our websites as a primary source of information and we do not keep this information up to date. Your use of the
information shown on our websites is entirely at your own risk.
(b) We do not endorse or review any third party websites which we provide links for on our websites. As such we do not
take responsibility for data, information or materials shown on such websites.
We provide no warranty or representation regarding our websites. We disclaim all warranties and representations
including implied warranties of:
merchantability
non-infringement of third party rights
freedom from viruses or other harmful code
fitness for particular purpose.

4.2.6.

Statements of movements in Transit Accounts, Record-keeping Accounts and
Non-Deposit Accounts

For the purposes of Section 10 of the Terms and Conditions, the statements we provide include statements in respect of
movements in Transit Accounts, Record-keeping Accounts and Non-Deposit Accounts. Such statements do not change
the legal nature of such accounts as described in these Operating Procedures.

February 2016

Page 54

EXE50056

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

Part V: Section 1

New Issues

5.1.1

Acceptance criteria ............................................................................................................. 57

5.1.2

Acceptance process ........................................................................................................... 57

5.1.2.1

Common Code and ISIN ......................................................................................................................... 58

5.1.2.2

Fungibility................................................................................................................................................ 58

5.1.2.3

Invalid securities ..................................................................................................................................... 59

5.1.2.4

Instructions involving unknown Securities Codes .................................................................................... 59

5.1.2.5

Confidential securities ............................................................................................................................. 59

5.1.3

Acceptance channels ......................................................................................................... 59

5.1.3.1

European Pre-Issuance Messaging System (EPIM) services.................................................................. 60

5.1.3.2

Connection security................................................................................................................................. 60

5.1.4

New issues distribution ...................................................................................................... 60

5.1.4.1

Syndicated lead manager distribution

Against payment ....................................................................... 61

5.1.4.1.1

Conditions for the use of the against payment procedure ................................................................... 61

5.1.4.1.2

Preliminary information....................................................................................................................... 61

5.1.4.1.3

The allotment list ................................................................................................................................ 62

5.1.4.1.4

Closing Date....................................................................................................................................... 63

5.1.4.2

Syndicated free of payment distribution .................................................................................................. 63

5.1.4.2.1

Preliminary information....................................................................................................................... 63

5.1.4.2.2

The allotment list ................................................................................................................................ 63

5.1.4.2.3

Closing Date....................................................................................................................................... 64

5.1.4.3

Non-syndicated issuing agent distribution

Against payment................................................................. 64

5.1.4.3.1

Conditions for the use of non-syndicated issuing agent distribution

5.1.4.3.2

Preliminary information....................................................................................................................... 64

5.1.4.3.3

Issuance Date .................................................................................................................................... 65

5.1.4.4

February 2016

Against payment ..................... 64

Back Value procedure............................................................................................................................. 65

Page 55

EXE50057

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

February 2016

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Page 56

EXE50058

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.1.1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Acceptance criteria

(a) We can accept securities into the Euroclear System provided that they meet our criteria which include, without
limitation, fungibility, regulatory and tax considerations. We report accepted securities in our securities database.
(b) Odd Lots that are not accepted in the relevant local clearing system are not accepted in the Euroclear System.
(c) Nominal amounts of securities expressed in decimals are not accepted in the Euroclear System unless otherwise
stated in these Operating Procedures. Fractional nominal amounts of Fund Shares may be accepted under the
conditions in Part V: Section 3 (Custody).
(d) We will decide for which services accepted securities are eligible and provide this information to you throughout the
Euroclear Documentation.
(e) Fractional amounts of securities denominated in EUR where the minimum denomination is expressed with no more
than 2 digits after the decimal point can be accepted in the Euroclear System.
e.g. 0.00
(f) We reserve the right, either to:
not accept securities in the Euroclear System for any reason whether published in advance or not
withdraw acceptance of any securities previously accepted
refuse any transfer/deposit into the Euroclear System of securities even if we already hold securities of the
same issue
deliver out of the Euroclear System securities to you if it is necessary either:
o
under applicable law, regulation or provision of the corporate charter (or other constitutional
documents of the issuer) or the governing documentation of the issue
o
due to applicable corporate, judicial or administrative decision or inquiry
o
for the best interests of the Euroclear System.
(g) We may classify securities into different categories (such as, for example, issuer or tax status) in line with
procedures we define from time to time. We do not accept liability for the accuracy, completeness, adequacy, timeliness
or availability of such categorisation.

5.1.2

Acceptance process

(a) Prior to accepting a new security we need time to gather information relating to its acceptance into the Euroclear
System. You must take this time into account when informing us of your wish for us to accept a new security.
(b) You must provide us with any information we request to make our decision on whether or not to accept a security
into the Euroclear System if you request the acceptance of a new security.
(c) When making our decision we may take into account information provided by:
the issuer
the lead manager
the issuing agent
Clearstream (or indirectly through them)
data vendors
other sources.
We accept no liability for acting in reliance on the information provided by the above sources.

February 2016

Page 57

EXE50059

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

New Global Notes and New Safekeeping Structure
(d) For acceptance of securities issued in NGN form we require a signed Issuer ICSD Agreement in the form shown on

(e) For acceptance of registered form securities to be held in the New Safekeeping Structure we require a signed Issuer
ICSD Agreement in the form shown on our website.

5.1.2.1

Common Code and ISIN

(a) Once requested, we (or Clearstream) will allocate a Common Code to each issue of securities held in the Euroclear
System or Clearstream (or both).
(b) We reserve the right to use any appropriate means in order to identify a security.
(c) To the extent that we and Clearstream are responsible for the allocation of an ISIN, the Common Code for an issue
will form the basis for the related ISIN.
(d) We accept no liability for the availability or use of ISINs we publish or make available to you that are allocated by
other numbering agencies, including substitute numbering agencies.
(e) Securities will be issued with different Common Codes if treated differently, even if they are issued under the same
governing documentation (unless they are a subsequent tranche of, or amendment to, an existing issue).
Securities represented by different Common Codes may form separate issues for the purposes of Section 17 of the
Terms and Conditions.
(f) We reserve the right not to accept securities (or related Instructions) until a Common Code has been allocated by us
or Clearstream.
(g) The allocation of a Common Code or ISIN does not indicate acceptance of the security within the Euroclear System.
Acceptance is indicated:
to issuing agents, via a validation message
to Participants, by the security appearing in the list of eligible securities available on our website.

5.1.2.2

Fungibility

(a) At the time of acceptance we will determine whether a later tranche of securities is to be treated as fungible with one
or more tranches previously issued.
(b) Securities in the Euroclear System are held fungibly by issue, unless within the issue certain securities do not carry
the same rights (e.g. securities drawn for redemption). We may allocate a different Common Code or ISIN to such
securities.
(c) We may decline to accept or hold securities where they can be issued in more than one form (e.g. registered and
bearer) or in forms which cannot be treated as fungible.
Remote Market Securities will not be treated as fungible with the Home Market Securities of the same issue. Both
Remote Market Securities and Home Market Securities will carry the same ISIN but will be differentiated within the
Euroclear System by the allocation of different Common Codes.

February 2016

Page 58

EXE50060

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.1.2.3

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Invalid securities

(a) We accept securities into the Euroclear System on the assumption that they are valid. We do not make any
investigation or assessment as to the validity of the securities.
(b) If after crediting your Account with securities, we are informed that such securities are invalid, we can:
block the relevant securities in your Account(s)
suspend Instructions and requests involving such securities
debit entries related to such securities
suspend all services related to such securities
cancel all unexecuted Instructions related to such securities
delete the Security Code of the securities in the securities database.

5.1.2.4

Instructions involving unknown Securities Codes

We will recycle securities transaction Instructions at your request that were rejected due to an unknown Security Code.
We will also attempt to investigate whether such securities can be accepted in the Euroclear System. The recycling
process does not indicate acceptance by us.

5.1.2.5

Confidential securities

(a) If requested by a lead manager or issuer or provided for in the governing documentation of the issue, we may set up
any security as a confidential issue provided the rules in this Section 5.1.2.5 are followed.
(b) The request must specify how long the confidentiality conditions should last and also whether they apply to
Clearstream.
(c) We do not report or respond to queries about confidential
section of our website.
(d) We will only make information about confidential securities available to the lead manager or issuer, who requested
confidentiality, and you, if:
you have a position in the issue
you have entered settlement Instructions for securities transactions in the issue.
Requests for information from anyone else will be referred to the party who initially asked for the security to be marked
as confidential.
(e) We do not confirm whether inquiries have been made by the persons outlined in (d) and we rely solely on the oral
representation of the caller.
(f) We can remove the confidentiality restrictions if information about the securities becomes publicly available.

5.1.3

Acceptance channels

(a) We accept communications for the acceptance of new issues into the Euroclear System via various channels,
Information on the European Pre-Issuance Messaging System is shown below.

February 2016

Page 59

EXE50061

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.1.3.1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

European Pre-Issuance Messaging System (EPIM) services

(a) A description of this service is contained in the EPIM Documentation which is available on request. This
documentation includes information on:
the categories of securities eligible for this service
the EPIM operating hours
fees
(b) You alone are responsible for selecting the most appropriate EPIM connection for your own operational
requirements.
(c) Any EPIM Message which has passed through the necessary authentication procedures and appears to us to be
from you is deemed as authentic.
(d) You are responsible for:
your use of third party software and hardware required for your use of the EPIM service
procuring and complying with any necessary licenses.
(e) We do not warrant that the EPIM service is interruption or error free or is merchantable or fit for any purpose.
(f) We may suspend the EPIM service occasionally to carry out maintenance. This maintenance is very rarely carried
out on Business Days and should not disrupt your service. On occasions where such maintenance is carried out on
Business Days, we will inform you of such maintenance via our standard messaging formats.

5.1.3.2

Connection security

(a) You alone are responsible for the security of your connection to EPIM and any consequences that follow unsuitable
security arrangements.
(b) You will be assigned a user ID and password. It is your responsibility to ensure the privacy of your password. If you
are required to change your password, you must do so before its expiry date to ensure the service is not interrupted.
(c) Failure to comply with security requirements for the EPIM service may expose you to statutory and contractual
liability as well as reduced security. You indemnify us, our agents and employees for loss, claim, liability or expense
caused by:
your non-compliance with the security requirements
unauthorised use of your EPIM connection
false or misleading information or failure to disclose any material fact in respect of the security requirements.
(d) We may disconnect our or your connection to EPIM due to a contractual breach by you, for security purposes or for
other reasons. We will notify you of this as soon as practicable.
(e) You may disconnect your connection to EPIM provided you give us reasonable notice and you have no messages
pending through the service.

5.1.4

New issues distribution

(a)
(available on our website).

February 2016

Page 60

EXE50062

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(b) The procedures outlined in this section apply to distributions of securities held with a Common Depository or
Common Safekeeper. The same procedures apply to securities held with a Specialised Depository or Other Settlement
System but are subject to differences which result from local market practice.
(c) Unless previously agreed with us, no provision that is included in documents concerning an issue of securities which
requires us to take action is applicable or binding upon us. You must draw our attention to any feature of an issue which
requires action to be taken by us, the Common Service Provider, Common Safekeeper or Common Depository.
(d) When distributing a new issue through the Euroclear System, the requesting party must send us the full final
documentation no later than the Issuance Date.
(e) Questions regarding the documentation requirements for acceptance of a new issue in the Euroclear System should
be addressed to us and not to any other party.

5.1.4.1

Syndicated lead manager distribution

5.1.4.1.1

Conditions for the use of the against payment procedure

Against payment

(a) Lead managers must be Participants in the Euroclear System and have a Securities Clearance Account and Cash

These Accounts can only be used to execute payments and internal settlements in connection with these distribution
procedures.
(b)
other Cash Account they hold with us.
(c) Unless agreed otherwise with us, each lead manager will use the same Accounts to distribute all new issues to
which this procedure applies.
(d) Lead managers who become Participants solely to use the new issues distribution procedures may request that we

5.1.4.1.2

Preliminary information

(a) As soon as possible, but no later than 3 Business Days before the scheduled Closing Date, the lead manager must
provide us with all the details we request as regards the issue.
Specifically, information regarding the planned date and place of closing, proposed instructions for payment to the
issuer and the documentation for the new issue must be sent to us as soon as possible.
(b) Lead managers may allow allotees to receive part of their allotment in Clearstream and part in the Euroclear System.
This is known as a split allotment. Primary delivery of part of an allotment received in the Euroclear System to a
counterparty in Clearstream is not allowed.
If a split allotment is permitted by the lead manager, this should be indicated to us in the preliminary information
submitted.
(c) We must receive the following in draft and final forms before the Closing Date:
the offering or invitation memorandum, if any
the allotment list with delivery Instructions to allotees

February 2016

Page 61

EXE50063

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

the offering circular or issue prospectus
the fiscal agency, indenture, depository (or other) agreement including the text of any required form of
ownership certification in connection with exchanges, redemptions and interest payments on global securities,
interest payments and rights attached to the issue
confirmation of the tax status of the issue, including the text of the required form of ownership certification for
tax purposes.
These documents are required for reference and we will not review them in detail.

5.1.4.1.3

The allotment list

(a) The lead manager must:
provide us with a complete allotment list for the portion of the issue to be distributed in the Euroclear System.
This must be done as soon as possible and no later than 19:45 on the third Business Day prior to the
scheduled Closing Date (we may cancel distribution of an issuance if this deadline is not adhered to)
notify allotees of the necessary details of the distribution procedures including the requirement to choose
whom they wish to receive their allotments through (us or Clearstream) by sending appropriate Instructions.
Any timetable delivered to allotees must conform to the timetable agreed with us.
(b) If allotees elect to split their allotment between us and Clearstream then the lead manager must ensure that the
allotment list submitted to us reflects this, if necessary, by amending it. Submission of an amendment constitutes a
request to us to prepare internal delivery Instructions to reflect such change.
Final amendments must be made and received by us no later than 10:00 on the second Business Day before the
scheduled Closing Date.
(c) By the third Business Day prior to the scheduled Closing Date, the lead manager must have identified:
any allotees who have not sent receipt Instructions within the Euroclear System or Clearstream
any non-matching internal receipt Instructions.
Provided they are received before 10:00 on the second Business Day prior to the scheduled Closing Date, we will
accept transmissions as shown below.
Accepted transmissions
Lead managers

Amendments to the allotment list reflecting the
discovery of unmatched Instructions
Instructions requesting us to facilitate the
amendments to the allotment list
Instructions requesting us to enable securities to be
transferred to those allotees who have failed to input
internal receipt Instructions

Allotees

Internal receipt Instructions for their allotments
Modifications to previously input receipt Instructions

(d) No later than 10:00 on the second Business Day before the scheduled Closing Date the lead manager must instruct
which no matching receipt Instructions have been input.

Accounts. If the lead manager has no other Account, the portion of issuance may be transferred to another Participant.

February 2016

Page 62

EXE50064

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(e) At 11:00 on the second Business Day prior to the scheduled Closing Date we will fix the portions of the new issue to
be held in the Euroclear System. We inform the lead manager of the nominal amount.
Allotees cannot alter their elections once the amount is fixed. Amounts to be held by an allotee may be modified by
subsequent transfer Instructions after the processing of the distribution.

5.1.4.1.4

Closing Date

(a) The Closing Date must be:
a Business Day
a business day at Clearstream
a business day in the country of the currency in which the payment to the issuer is to be made, including the
city of the Cash Correspondent, Common Depository, Common Service Provider or Common Safekeeper
a business day in the city in which closing takes place.
(b) Neither we nor the Common Depository, Common Service Provider or Common Safekeeper accept any liability for
the delay or cancellation of a closing or distribution.
(c) The lead manager acknowledges and agrees that in providing payment to the issuer on our behalf, the Common
Depository or Common Safekeeper acts as sub-agent on behalf of such lead manager. Accordingly, the lead manager
accepts that it bears the risk of default or insolvency of such Common Depository or Common Safekeeper under
circumstances where such Common Depository or Common Safekeeper would have received cash to pay the issuer
from us but would not yet have made effective payment to the issuer.
If the lead manager is not comfortable with our choice of Common Depository or Common Safekeeper, they may
request that a different one be appointed.
(d)
shows a positive balance, the lead manager must give a single book transfer Instruction with a Value Date, not earlier
than the Closing Date, to another of his Accounts to ensure the balance returns to nil.

5.1.4.2

Syndicated free of payment distribution

Under this procedure, the i
payment and may then instruct us to transfer the securities to the allotees.

5.1.4.2.1

Euroclear System free of

Preliminary information

The preliminary information we require for this procedure is the same as that set out for syndicated lead manager
distribution against payment (see Section 5.1.4.1.2 above).

5.1.4.2.2

The allotment list

(a) The lead manager must:
provide us with a complete allotment list for the portion of the issue to be distributed in the Euroclear System.
This must be done as soon as possible and no later than 19:45 on the third Business Day prior to the
scheduled Closing Date (we may cancel distribution of an issuance if this deadline is not adhered to)
notify allotees of the necessary details of the distribution procedures including the requirement to choose
whom they wish to receive their allotments through (us or Clearstream) by sending appropriate Instructions.
Any timetable delivered to allotees must conform to the timetable agreed with us.

February 2016

Page 63

EXE50065

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(b) Final amendments must be made and received by us no later than 10:00 on the second Business Day before the
scheduled Closing Date.
Submission of an amendment constitutes a request by the lead manager for us to prepare internal transfer free of
payment Instructions to reflect such change.

5.1.4.2.3

Closing Date

(a) The Closing Date must be:
a Business Day
a business day at Clearstream
a business day in the city of the Common Depository or Common Safekeeper
a business day in the city in which closing takes place
(b) Neither we nor the Common Depository, Common Service Provider or Common Safekeeper accept any liability for
the delay or cancellation of a closing or distribution.

5.1.4.3

Non-syndicated issuing agent distribution

Against payment

Three procedures are available for the distribution of non-syndicated new issues:
Prerelease (against payment and free of payment)
same-day (against payment and free of payment)
backvalue (against payment).

5.1.4.3.1

Conditions for the use of non-syndicated issuing agent distribution
payment

Against

(a) Issuing agents must be Participants in the Euroclear System and have a Securities Clearance Account and Cash
ssues Non-Syndicated
These Accounts can only be used to execute payments and internal and Bridge settlements in connection with these
distribution procedures.
(b) Issuing agents are liable for all debit balances in their New Issues Non-Syndicated Distribution Cash Account to the
same extent as for any other Cash Account they hold with us.
(c) Unless agreed otherwise with us, each issuing agent will use the same Accounts to distribute all new issues to which
this procedure applies.
(d) Issuing agents who become Participants solely to use the non-syndicated distribution procedures may request that
we do no

5.1.4.3.2

Preliminary information

(a) Issuing agents must provide us with all the details we request from them for new issues distribution no later than 10
Business Days before the scheduled Issuance Date.

February 2016

Page 64

EXE50066

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(b) We must receive in draft and final forms, before the Issuance Date of securities issued under the non-syndicated
distribution procedures (including each drawdown under programmes we have previously accepted):
the pricing supplement
the paying agency (or other) agreement including the text of any required form of ownership certification in
connection with exchanges, redemptions and interest payments on global securities, interest payments and
rights attached to the issue
confirmation of the tax status of the issue, including the text of the required form of ownership certification for
tax purposes.
These documents are required for reference but we do not review them in detail.
(c) A programme reference number is allocated to the issuing agent upon acceptance of the programme for acceptance
in the Euroclear System of issues under such programme.
(d) The issuing agent must notify dealers of the necessary details of the distribution procedures. This notification should
include the requirement that dealers elect through whom they wish to receive their securities (us or Clearstream). This
choice should be made by sending appropriate instructions to us or to Clearstream.
Any timetable delivered to dealers by an issuing agent must conform to the procedures set out in this section and the
-syndicated Issuing Agent distribution
(available on our website).

5.1.4.3.3

Issuance Date

(a) The Issuance Date must be:
a Business Day
a business day at Clearstream
a business day in the country of the currency in which the payment to the issuer is to be made including the
city of the Cash Correspondent, Common Depository, Common Service Provider or Common Safekeeper
a business day in the city in which closing takes place.
(b) Neither we nor the Common Depository, Common Service Provider or Common Safekeeper accept any liability for
the delay or cancellation of a closing or distribution.
(c)
-Syndicated
distribution, such Account shows a positive balance, the issuing agent must instruct a transfer of cash with a Value
Date, not earlier than the Issuance Date, to an account either within the Euroclear System or outside the Euroclear
System to ensure the balance returns to nil.

5.1.4.4

Back Value procedure

(a) We can apply Back Value to Newly-Issued Securities both:
settling internally during the OSSP
settling internally during the next RTP provided the Instructions were matched before the OSSP.
Most transactions of Newly-Issued Securities settle with a cash value date of the Settlement Date agreed between the
parties regardless of the actual date of settlement.
(b) In some instances we may not always be timely advised and aware of a Closing Date for Newly-Issued Securities
and therefore we may be unable to inform you of the application of Back Value until after the Closing Date. In other
cases we may not be able to apply Back Value with respect to securities transactions involving such Newly-Issued
Securities. We accept no liability for any loss incurred by you as a consequence of you having assumed that we will
apply Back Value to a particular issuance of securities without having obtained our confirmation that such application of
Back Value would occur.

February 2016

Page 65

EXE50067

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

It is up to you to check with us at the end of the Closing Date whether Back Value will be applied and obtain
confirmation from us.
(c) We apply Back Value solely on the basis of the Settlement Date agreed between the parties. If you want to avoid
Back Value being applied to your settlement of Newly-Issued Securities you should choose a Settlement Date that is
neither the Closing Date nor the Business Day after.
(d) If the entire issuance of Newly-Issued Securities has been Pre-Released then any related against payment
securities transactions which settle in the OSSP will be settled without Back Value.
(e) If the entire issuance of Newly-Issued Securities has been Pre-Released but not all against-payment securities
transactions settle during the OSSP, we may apply Back Value upon your request, for transactions with the Closing
Date as the Settlement Date.
We may also apply Back Value in these circumstances to transactions taking place over the Bridge if agreed with
Clearstream.
(f) Back Value as of Closing Date is applied to all against payment securities transactions involving Newly-Issued
Securities that:
are not fully Pre-Released
have a Settlement Date that is the Closing Date
settle on the Business Day after the Closing Date.
(g) In our sole discretion (for internal settlement) or in agreement with Clearstream (for Bridge settlement) Back Value
may be applied to against payment securities transactions for Newly-Issued Securities, not fully Pre-Released, that
settle on the second Business Day after the Closing Date in line with the rules below:
Back Value as of the Closing Date is applied where the Settlement Date is the Closing Date
Back Value as of the Business Day after the Closing Date is applied where the Settlement Date is the
Business Day after the Closing Date.

February 2016

Page 66

EXE50068

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

Part V: Section 2
5.2.1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Settlement Services

Processing rules ................................................................................................................. 69

5.2.1.1

Overnight Securities Settlement Processing ........................................................................................... 69

5.2.1.1.1

Positions............................................................................................................................................. 69

5.2.1.1.2

Records and reporting ........................................................................................................................ 69

5.2.1.2

Real-time Processing .............................................................................................................................. 70

5.2.1.2.1

Positions............................................................................................................................................. 70

5.2.1.2.2

Records and reporting ........................................................................................................................ 70

5.2.1.3

Processing sequence.............................................................................................................................. 71

5.2.1.3.1

Processing for positioning .................................................................................................................. 72

5.2.1.3.2

Recycling of Instructions..................................................................................................................... 72

5.2.1.4

Positioning sequence of against payment external receipts and money transfer Instructions ................. 72

5.2.1.5

Positioning sequence of securities deliveries .......................................................................................... 72

5.2.1.5.1

Settlement processing procedures ..................................................................................................... 73

5.2.1.5.2

Priority designations ........................................................................................................................... 73

5.2.1.5.3

Amount of securities ........................................................................................................................... 74

5.2.1.5.4

Modification of priority designations.................................................................................................... 75

5.2.1.6

Availability of cash for securities transactions ......................................................................................... 75

5.2.1.7

Participant-linked settlement Instructions ................................................................................................ 75

5.2.1.7.1

Maintenance of linked securities and Instructions............................................................................... 75

5.2.1.7.2

Redemption and partial redemption by drawing of linked securities ................................................... 76

5.2.1.7.3

Merging of fungible issues of linked sets ............................................................................................ 76

5.2.1.7.4

Linked securities

5.2.2

availability for positioning ..................................................................................... 77

Internal settlement .............................................................................................................. 77

5.2.2.1

Settlement Conditions ............................................................................................................................. 78

5.2.2.1.1

Input, deadlines and validation ........................................................................................................... 78

5.2.2.1.2

Matching............................................................................................................................................. 78

5.2.2.1.3

Selection for processing and positioning ............................................................................................ 78

5.2.2.1.4

System-linked Instructions (technical netting) and Linked Reimbursements....................................... 79

5.2.2.2

Successful and unsuccessful positioning ................................................................................................ 80

5.2.2.3

Cancellation of Instructions ..................................................................................................................... 80

5.2.2.4

Credit and debit of Accounts ................................................................................................................... 81

5.2.2.5

Settlement and Finality............................................................................................................................ 81

5.2.3

Bridge settlement ................................................................................................................ 81

5.2.3.1

Risk management procedures ................................................................................................................ 82

5.2.3.2

Settlement Conditions ............................................................................................................................. 82

5.2.3.2.1

Input, deadlines and validation ........................................................................................................... 82

5.2.3.2.2

Matching............................................................................................................................................. 83

5.2.3.2.3

Selection for processing and positioning ............................................................................................ 83

5.2.3.3

Successful and unsuccessful positioning ................................................................................................ 84

5.2.3.4

Cancellation of Instructions ..................................................................................................................... 85

5.2.3.5

Refusal of deliveries by Clearstream....................................................................................................... 85

5.2.3.6

Credit and debit of Accounts ................................................................................................................... 85

5.2.3.7

Settlement and Finality............................................................................................................................ 86

February 2016

Page 67

EXE50069

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.2.4

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

External settlement ............................................................................................................. 86

5.2.4.1

Application of local market rules.............................................................................................................. 87

5.2.4.2

Receipts.................................................................................................................................................. 88

5.2.4.3

Deliveries ................................................................................................................................................ 89

5.2.4.4

Settlement Conditions ............................................................................................................................. 90

5.2.4.4.1

Input, deadlines and validation ........................................................................................................... 90

5.2.4.4.2

Matching............................................................................................................................................. 91

5.2.4.4.3

Unsuccessful matching....................................................................................................................... 91

5.2.4.4.4

Selection for processing and positioning ............................................................................................ 92

5.2.4.4.5

Processing of local market confirmations ........................................................................................... 92

5.2.4.5

Successful and unsuccessful positioning ................................................................................................ 92

5.2.4.6

Cancellation of Instructions ..................................................................................................................... 93

5.2.4.7

Refusal of securities................................................................................................................................ 93

5.2.4.8

Credit and debit of Accounts ................................................................................................................... 94

5.2.4.9

Settlement and Finality............................................................................................................................ 94

February 2016

Page 68

EXE50070

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.2.1

Processing rules

(a) These rules on processing apply as set out in the Euroclear Documentation. We may adjust them in exceptional or
contingency situations. Processing of Instructions can only take place on Business Days and we do not guarantee a
particular timing for each Processing.
(b) We reserve the right to add or omit processes to any Processing set out in this section.
(c) We may perform a Processing at any time, and include data, that we in our sole discretion consider appropriate if we
are either:
unable to perform all or part of the OSSP or RTP
have not received the required data for such processes from external sources by the scheduled time.
You authorise us to credit and debit your Account(s) before receipt of applicable reporting from the local market.
Some processing may be provided to us via a platform shared with other affiliated entities. When transactions or
processes with these other entities have priority, we may be unable to perform all or part of the OSSP and RTP as
scheduled.
Processing cycle for a given Business Day

20:30 - Day X -1

Morning -Day X

Overnight Securities
Settlement Processing
5.2.2.1.

Evening -

Real-time Processing

Overnight Securities Settlement Processing

(a) The OSSP begins the Processing cycle for the Business Day (Day X). The OSSP starts after the Input Deadline
referenced in the Euroclear Documentation on Day X-1 and ends with the start of the RTP in the morning of Day X.
(b) The OSSP will have one process but may, in exceptional cases, include more processes. In that case, unless stated
otherwise in the Operating Procedures, Instructions for processing in the OSSP may be processed in either part of the
OSSP at our discretion.

5.2.1.1.1

Positions

Your Account balances (securities and cash) starting positions are available at the close of the RTP dated Day X -1.

5.2.1.1.2

Records and reporting

(a) Balances and movements are reported as described in the Euroclear Documentation.
(b) The balances in Securities Clearance Accounts as reported at the end of a Processing reflect all debits and credits
of securities, regardless of whether they are final or provisional.

reflects all final securities credits and debits at the completion of the OSSP.

February 2016

Page 69

EXE50071

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(c) The reporting of the status of unexecuted Instructions is based on the available securities balance at the time of
positioning of such Instructions taking into account:
each Instruction separately within the same level of priority
all unexecuted Instructions with higher priority.
The report does not guarantee the continued availability of securities for settlement of Instructions with the same level of
priority.

5.2.2.2.

Real-time Processing

(a) The RTP starts at the end of the OSSP and ends in the evening of Day X. The Processing cycle for Day X ends after
the completion of the RTP.
(b) The selection of Instructions or operations that are eligible for the RTP begins at the start of the RTP and continues
until the Input Deadline for such RTP.
An exception is made to the above rule for certain credits or debits of cash that we perform. These can be processed
after the Input Deadline for the RTP until the start of the next OSSP or at another time during the RTP which we in our
sole discretion determine.

5.2.2.2.1.

Positions

(a) The RTP begins with the Securities Clearance Account and Cash Account balances available at the end of the
OSSP for Day X.
(b) During the RTP and for the purpose of the execution of an Instruction or operation, the available Securities
Clearance Account and Cash Account balances used will be those recorded at the end of the booking of the previous
transaction.

5.2.2.2.2.

Records and reporting

(a) Balances and movements are reported as described in the Euroclear Documentation.
(b) The account balances that are reported after the completion of a RTP reflect all credits and debits executed during
that RTP, regardless of whether they are final or provisional.

reflects all final securities credits and debits at the completion of the RTP.
(c) The reporting of the status of unexecuted Instructions is based on the available securities balance at the time of
positioning of such Instructions taking into account:
each Instruction separately within the same level of priority
all unexecuted Instructions with higher priority.
The report does not guarantee the continued availability of securities for settlement of Instructions with the same level of
priority.

February 2016

Page 70

EXE50072

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.2.2.3.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Processing sequence

(a) Settlement and Custody Operation Instructions are simulated in a processing sequence which takes into account
your priorities and options. This sequence determines the order in which your Instructions will be executed depending
on your available Securities Clearance Account and Cash Account balances. If you lack sufficient securities, we will
take into account your provision of cash or collateral (if using a secured credit line) to execute all Instructions in a single
Processing.
(b) The sequence may differ from one part of the Processing to another depending on your choice of settlement
priorities and options.
(c) We will use the Euroclear reference number (from lowest to highest) to determine which Instruction should be
executed first if having followed the processing sequence no distinction can be made.
(d) The processing sequence is as follows:
First We consider all debits and credits of securities and their related cash movements. This is regardless of
the specific securities issue (i.e. ISIN) and whether the Instructions are part of linked sets before taking into
account any other Instructions which qualify for inclusion in the relevant Processing.
Second We consider all other Instructions which qualify for the Processing and their execution is on an
issue by issue basis.
Third

We also sequence Instructions within each issue.

The sequencing priorities are shown in the table below.
Sequence
First

Second

Order of priority
i.

ii.
iii.
iv.
v.
i.
ii.
iii.

Third

iv.
v.
i.
ii.

iii.

iv.
v.

February 2016

reversals, adjustments to items already processed, securities losses, transfers
from one securities code to another, blockings, recalls of borrowed securities,
confirmations or refusals of local market deliveries/receipts
unconditional cash movements resulting from market claims
unconditional cash movements resulting from fees, interest payments
receipts of securities free of payment from outside the Euroclear System
full and partial redemptions including drawings
distribution of new issues of securities from a new issues Securities Clearance
Account
all issuances of short and medium term instruments
all issues subject to a Custody Operation resulting in a Custody Cash
Distribution based on the positions at the end of that Settlement Date
all other issues in random order
technical netting movements
those resulting in credits of securities against payment in respect of new issues
distribution assigned first level 1 priority, then level 2
those resulting in credits for external or Bridge receipts of securities against
payment
Custody Operation Instructions for voluntary Corporate Actions
internal, Bridge and external deliveries taking into account the priority allocated,
Settlement Date and amount of securities (Against payment Bridge receipts will
be sequenced in the RTP after the security deliveries designated either 'Top
Priority' or 'Priority' but before 'Lowest Priority')
all other Instructions
Opportunity Borrowing requests

Page 71

EXE50073

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.2.2.3.1.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Processing for positioning

(a) We will select valid Instructions that are eligible for processing and (where necessary) matched for immediate
processing or positioning.
(b) For each Cash Account, Instructions are sequenced in accordance with Section 5.2.1.4.
(c) For each Securities Clearance Account, Instructions are sequenced in accordance with Section 5.2.1.5.
(d) You are offered different options as to priorities and other processing variables which are described throughout this
section. You may also link your Instructions in accordance with Section 5.2.1.7.

5.2.2.3.2.

Recycling of Instructions

The positioning of Instructions which fail and remain unexecuted will be recycled within the Processing (for which they
are eligible) provided that:
the related Account(s) have received a credit of securities and/or cash that enables the Instruction to meet the
applicable Positioning Conditions
the Instruction is eligible for processing at such time.
TP.

5.2.2.4.

Positioning sequence of against payment external receipts and money transfer
Instructions

(a) Once authenticated, validated and matched (where necessary), your external settlement Instructions for receipt
against payment of securities and money transfer Instructions selected for positioning will be sequenced as follows:
in chronological order of applicable positioning deadlines
unexecuted external receipt Instructions before any money transfer Instructions
where there are several unexecuted securities against payment receipt Instructions, in chronological order of
Settlement Date
in descending order of the amount of cash in the Instruction.
(b) Where unexecuted Instructions have equal priority after the application of the positioning sequence above, they will
be sequenced in a random order.

5.2.2.5.

Positioning sequence of securities deliveries

(a) Once authenticated, validated and matched (where necessary), your delivery Instructions for securities will be
considered based on these factors in the order they are listed:
your priority designations
the amount of securities in each Instruction.
As a general rule, if the positioning is ongoing, we will position Instructions in the order they are received (before taking
your priority designations into account).
(b) You cannot designate priorities for FundSettle Instructions.

February 2016

Page 72

EXE50074

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.2.2.5.1.

Settlement processing procedures

If you do not specify an option, we will process your Instructions under option N (shown below).
We must receive your choice of option by the timing specified in the Euroclear Documentation.
Default standard procedure

Option N

(a) Execution of outstanding unexecuted delivery Instructions for securities of the same issue and priority level will be
sequenced in chronological order of the Settlement Date.
(b) An unexecuted Instruction with an earlier Settlement Date blocks the availability of securities for Instructions with a
later Settlement Date until the required amount is available for the execution of the Instruction with such earlier
Settlement Date. This blocking will continue until the Instruction with earlier Settlement Date is executed, lapsed,
cancelled or given a lower priority by you.
(c) Any securities in your Account in excess of the amount reserved for the execution of the Instructions with an earlier
Settlement Date remain available for the execution of Instructions with later Settlement Dates.
Option Y
(d) This procedure allows you to optimise the use of your available securities. This is achieved by following option N for
positioning before the contractual Settlement Date. If after this, an Instruction with an earlier Settlement Date cannot be
executed, the failure will not block the availability of the securities for processing of an Instruction with a later Settlement
Date.
Exceptional procedure

Option D

(e) Under this procedure you can introduce a standing Instruction which removes Settlement Date from the criteria for
standard order of selection for simulation or sequence. Your Instructions will then be sequenced based on the order of
priority and amount of securities only.

5.2.2.5.2.

Priority designations

(a) Your securities delivery Instructions can be sequenced in accordance with the following priority designations.
Priority Level

Comments
Can be used for all Instructions
Can be used for all Instructions
Automatic classification if you fail to request a designation
Can only be applied to avoid Automatic Borrowing in the Securities Lending and
Borrowing Program

(b) Custody Operation Instructions that require a debit of securities will be processed before any other Instructions
regardless of their priority designation. Voluntary Corporate Actions with unconditional movements are unaffected by
any priority designations.
Subject to Section 5.3.2.6.1.2, Custody Operations which require a blocking of securities are submitted in the RTP.
(c) Against payment Instructions are normally sequenced before free of payment Instructions if at any time there are
several outstanding unexecuted Instructions to deliver securities:
of the same issue
with equal priority
with the same amount of securities
with the same Settlement Date (under options N and Y, not applicable for option D).

February 2016

Page 73

EXE50075

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(d) Within the same issue of securities, and up to the amount required for the relevant Instructions, the following rules
apply.
In the OSSP:
an unexecuted Instruction with a higher priority blocks the availability of securities for the execution of delivery
Instructions with lower priority up to the amount needed for the execution of the higher priority Instruction.
Securities accumulate in your Account to permit the processing of such higher priority delivery Instruction or
Custody Operation Instruction before any lower priority Instruction to deliver.
securities reserved in the OSSP are unblocked in the RTP and become available for other Instructions and
operations. Top Priority Instructions are exempt from this rule. Securities reserved for Top Priority Instructions
remain blocked until such Instructions are executed, lapsed, cancelled or given a lower priority by you.
In the RTP:
an unexecuted Custody Operation Instruction blocks the availability of securities for all other delivery
Instructions up to the amount of securities needed for its execution.
an unexecuted Top Priority Instruction blocks the availability of securities for all lower priority delivery
Instructions up to the amount of securities needed for its execution.
Securities accumulate in your Account to permit the processing of a higher priority delivery Instruction or Custody
Operation Instruction before the processing of any lower priority Instruction to deliver.
Securities reserved for Top Priority Instructions will only be unblocked in the RTP if the Instruction is either:
executed
lapsed
cancelled
given a lower priority by you.
Securities reserved for a Priority, Regular or Lowest Priority Instruction will be unblocked once the applicable recycling
pe
(e) If the RTP ends with Top Priority and Custody Operation Instructions still pending, a reservation of securities will be
made in subsequent OSSP until the Instructions are executed, lapsed, cancelled or given a lower priority by you. Any
securities in your Account in excess of the amount reserved remain available for the settlement of lower priority
Instructions.

5.2.2.5.3.

Amount of securities

(a) If under options N or Y there are unexecuted delivery Instructions of the same issue with the same priority and
Settlement Date, they will be sequenced in descending order of amount of securities. Option D follows the same rule but
disregards the Settlement Date.
(b) Positioning of Instructions in the OSSP can be affected by unexecuted Instructions as shown below:
Settlement Process
OSSP

Blocking Rules
An unexecuted Instruction for a larger amount of
securities blocks availability of securities for delivery
Instructions with smaller amounts.
Securities are accumulated in your Account to permit the
processing of the delivery Instruction with a larger
amount of securities before any delivery Instruction with
a smaller amount.

February 2016

Page 74

EXE50076

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(c) In the RTP, Instructions are positioned according to when they are received and whether you have sufficient
securities and/or cash in your Account(s) to execute them.

5.2.2.5.4.

Modification of priority designations

(a) You can modify the priority designation of your Instructions through EUCLID. The only way of achieving modification
via SWIFT, mail or telex is to cancel and then resubmit an Instruction.
(b) The priority of Instructions to deliver securities which have not yet been successfully positioned may be modified as
specified in the Euroclear Documentation.

5.2.2.6.

Availability of cash for securities transactions

(a) To determine the starting positions for any given Processing, we may include any credit of cash we extend to you in
our banking capacity.
(b) The availability of cash received at Cash Correspondents may be affected by holidays:
where Cash Correspondents are located
as indicated in the governing documentation of the issue.
(c) Incoming cash that is not associated with securities transactions, whether pre-advised or not, can be available for
the execution of Instructions or operations in the RTP if:
we have received the credit confirmation from the Cash Correspondent and cash has been credited to your
Cash Account before the time of the positioning of Instructions or operations
the cash is available as specified in Section 3.3.

5.2.2.7.

Participant-linked settlement Instructions

(a) For an Instruction to qualify as a linked Instruction, it must:
be for a Securities Clearance Account registered for the linking service
be for the same issue of securities
bear the same specific linking reference as described in the Euroclear Documentation. Two or more linked

The link is maintained until all linked deliveries are executed or until the relevant Instructions are cancelled.
(b) Qualifying linked Instructions are:
linked if at least one receipt and one delivery Instruction for the same security are validated by us and at least
one of the Instructions is selected for processing
processed in the OSSP or RTP, where standard settlement rules apply between Instructions with the same
linking reference.
(c) Settlement Instructions with the same linking reference are linked if at least one receipt and one delivery Instruction
for the same security are validated in the Euroclear System and at least one of the Instructions is selected for
processing.

5.2.2.1.1.

Maintenance of linked securities and Instructions

(a) Unexecuted linked receipt Instructions and securities standing to the credit of an Account which are part of a linked
set remain linked as long as the linked delivery Instructions remain unexecuted or until otherwise cancelled.

February 2016

Page 75

EXE50077

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(b) The amount of linked securities available in a linked set is the sum of the amount of securities in:
the executed linked receipt Instructions, plus any refused linked delivery Instructions regardless of whether all
the securities originally debited were linked or not, plus any executed receipt Instructions that are not linked, to
the extent that the securities are credited in replacement of linked securities previously debited in respect of
the recall of a Loan by a Lender
minus the amount of securities in executed linked delivery Instructions and Requested Recalls.
(c) Linked securities debited from your Account in response to a Requested Recall will remain linked securities for so
long as the linked set exists up until the credit to your Account of replacement securities. The debited securities will not
be available for the execution of linked delivery Instructions.
(d) A qualifying linked Instruction that we receive from you to receive or deliver securities, which bears the same linking
reference as a linked Instruction to deliver, is also a linked Instruction in the same linked set.
(e) If at the time securities are debited from your Account or Instructions to deliver securities are cancelled there
remains no other Instruction to deliver securities then, at the same time, any linked Instruction to receive that remains in
the backlog of unexecuted Instructions will cease to be processed as a linked Instruction and any linked securities
cease to be linked.
No qualifying linked Instruction received after the time described in (e) will be part of the linked set which included such
previously linked Instruction. Such Instruction may however form part of a new linked set.
(f) For Instructions to be and remain linked, there must be at least one valid linked receipt Instruction and one valid
linked delivery Instruction, both with the same linking reference, in the Euroclear System. Therefore:
when securities are received and credited to your Account following the execution of a linked receipt
Instruction, there must be a valid delivery Instruction with the same linking reference which has not yet been
positioned or cancelled
when a linked delivery Instruction is positioned, there must be a valid receipt Instruction with the same linking
reference awaiting execution which has not been cancelled or already executed with a resulting credit of
securities to your Securities Clearance Account.

5.2.2.1.2.

Redemption and partial redemption by drawing of linked securities

(a) Securities will no longer be available as linked securities for linked Instructions if they no longer exist. This can occur
when such securities are part of a redemption in full for such issue or for other reasons.
(b) Linked securities for which a partial redemption by drawing is processed cease to be linked securities.
However, linked Instructions, which remain in the backlog of unexecuted Instructions and have such securities as linked
securities, will not be affected by the partial redemption by drawing. The Instructions remain pending until the partial
redemption is complete.

5.2.2.1.3.

Merging of fungible issues of linked sets

If an issue of securities (X) that contains linked sets becomes fungible with another issue of securities (Y) and is merged
into Y, then:
Instructions for X with a linking reference are cancelled and replaced with similar Instructions for Y with the
same linking reference
any linked X securities are debited and replaced with Y securities.

February 2016

Page 76

EXE50078

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.2.2.1.4.

Linked securities

availability for positioning

(a) If a Securities Clearance Account is registered for the linking service, linked securities and linked sets will be
considered for positioning separately from other securities and Instructions.
(b) In order to debit securities for a delivery Instruction that is not linked, there must be sufficient non linked securities
available.
(c) In order to debit securities for a delivery Instruction that is linked, there must be sufficient linked securities under the
same linking reference available. If there are insufficient linked securities at the time of positioning and there is no
pending linked receipt Instruction, the linked delivery Instruction is executed if there are sufficient non linked securities .
(d) All delivery Instructions for Custody Operations are deemed not to be linked and are processed as such. If we take
any action in respect of a Corporate Action for securities:
where no holder action is required
following a DACE notice requesting Instructions and we receive none by the set Input Deadline
the action is taken regardless of whether the securities are linked or not.
(e) For some Corporate Actions, securities can be blocked in your Account to enable you to participate in the event. If
the number of securities blocked is more than the number of non linked securities, a linked delivery Instruction can be
executed to the extent that:
the total amount of securities standing to the credit of your Account (including both linked and non linked
securities) is more than the amount blocked, and that excess is sufficient to allow the execution of the
Instruction
under the same linking reference there are sufficient linked securities.
(f) If the amount of securities blocked is the same or more than the amount of non linked securities, a non linked
delivery Instruction cannot be executed.
(g) If the number of securities blocked is less than the number of non linked securities:
A linked delivery Instruction can be executed

- If there are sufficient linked securities under the same linking
reference
- If there are insufficient linked securities available at the time of
positioning and no pending linked Instruction to receive, but there
are sufficient non linked securities to cover the shortfall

A non linked delivery Instruction can be
executed

5.2.2

- If the number of non linked securities is greater than the number of
securities blocked and such excess is sufficient to allow the
execution of the Instruction

Internal settlement

(a) Internal settlement of securities takes place by simultaneous book entries in the form of a credit of securities to one
Securities Clearance Account and a debit of securities from another Securities Clearance Account. If settlement is
against payment, the transaction also includes a credit of cash to one Cash Account and a debit of cash from another
Cash Account.

February 2016

Page 77

EXE50079

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(b) Internal settlement Instructions can settle in any eligible Settlement Currency or free of payment.
(c) Internal settlement transactions are settled on each Business Day regardless of holidays in the relevant local market.
You may however wish to take local market holidays into account when choosing the Settlement Currency or Settlement
Date for your Instructions.
(d) We do not guarantee the settlement time of internal Instructions.

5.2.2.1.

Settlement Conditions

5.2.3.2.1.

Input, deadlines and validation

(a) We must have received your internal Instructions by the Input Deadline as specified in the Euroclear Documentation.
Any late internal Instruction will be entered into the next Processing for which it is eligible.
(b) After authentication of input we must validate your internal Instructions as specified in Part IV (Connectivity) before
they can be selected for submission to a Processing. If the validation is successful, the internal Instruction is submitted
to the Processing. If the validation is unsuccessful, we will reject the Instruction and will notify you of this rejection.
You can cancel your successfully validated internal Instructions as set out in Section 4.1.5 - Cancellation and
modification of Instructions.

5.2.3.2.2.

Matching

(a) An internal delivery Instruction must match with an internal receipt Instruction and vice versa (unless they are Free of
Payment Delivery Without Matching Instructions). If you choose to transfer or deliver securities without matching
Instructions or use Free of Payment Delivery Without Matching Instructions, you assume the risk linked to the absence
of matching such Instructions.
(b) The process of matching an Instruction consists of comparing the matching fields included in your Instruction and in
below) the Instructions are matched. If, however, a matching field is missing or there is a difference which is outside the
applicable tolerance level, the Instruction is unmatched.
(c) The information taken from the matching process is included in the reports of unexecuted Instructions. These reports
reflect the matched/unmatched status of an unexecuted Instruction at a particular moment in time. These reports do not
provide any indication about a potential later fulfilment of any other Settlement Conditions.
(d) Matched internal Instructions (and Free of Payment Delivery Without Matching Instructions) are put into the backlog
of unexecuted Instructions until selected for submission to a Processing.
Unmatched internal Instructions are put into the same backlog of unexecuted Instructions and recycled until matched or
cancelled.
(e) The fields of an internal Instruction which must match and the relevant tolerance levels are set forth on our website.

5.2.3.2.3.

Selection for processing and positioning

(a) Selection for submission to a Processing only occurs at the Settlement Date of a valid internal Instruction, matched
when necessary.

February 2016

Page 78

EXE50080

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(b) All internal Instructions are eligible for submission to the OSSP provided they meet the relevant Input Deadline.
Internal Instructions selected for submission to a Processing before 13:30 on a Business Day are always eligible for the
RTP, even without a Daylight Indicator.
(c) If the Settlement Date of an Instruction is not a Business Day, then it is selected for submission for the first eligible
Processing the next Business Day.
(d) Once an internal Instruction has been selected for submission to a Processing it will be sequenced in accordance
with Section 5.2.1, taking into account your priorities and options. Once sequenced, the internal Instruction will be
positioned as set out below.
Positioning involves determining whether the following Positioning Conditions have been met in order to allow the
execution of the internal Instruction.
Positioning Conditions
The below table outlines the conditions that must be satisfied for successful securities and cash positioning:
Positioning

Conditions

Securities positioning

If your Account is to be debited with securities then you must have
sufficient securities available in your Account

Cash positioning

If your Account is to be debited with cash then you must have sufficient
cash in your Account (or provision of cash) in the relevant Settlement
Currency to meet the Instruction or receive a credit line from us (as
determined by us in our banking capacity) to meet the Instruction

(e) When deciding if your Instructions meet the Positioning Conditions we will see if they are System-linked Instructions
for the purposes of technical netting or Linked Reimbursements (described below).
These Instructions allow that delivery proceeds of cash can be used to permit settlement of a linked receipt Instruction.
The two Instructions are positioned together and proceeds from the delivery Instruction are included to determine if they
provide sufficient cash to permit the settlement of the linked receipt Instruction. If this is possible then both transactions
will settle.

5.2.3.2.4.

System-linked Instructions (technical netting) and Linked Reimbursements

(a)
for securities with the same Security Code we will consider the Instructions as System-linked Instructions for cash and
securities positioning.
The Instructions which may be considered System-linked Instructions are:
Bridge against payment receipt Instructions
internal delivery and receipt Instructions.
The amount of securities indicated in the receipt and delivery Instructions do not need to be the same.

February 2016

Page 79

EXE50081

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(b) If you input System-linked Instructions, for receipt and delivery Instructions to be positioned you must have sufficient:
securities available in your Pivot Securities Clearance Account for the delivery Instruction (including from the
execution of the System-linked receipt Instruction)
cash (or provision of cash) in the related Cash Account to the Pivot Securities Clearance Account or receipt of
a credit line from us (as determined by us in our banking capacity) for the receipt Instruction (including from
the execution of the original delivery Instruction).
(c) This positioning technically nets:
cash movements of one or more purchases which failed due to a lack of cash or credit (for internal clearances
or Bridge receipt Instructions), with
of securities.
You can request that we block specific securities that you do not wish to be subject to this technical netting procedure.

(d) Linked Reimbursements provide that joint and simultaneous positioning of a receipt Instruction and reimbursement
of a Borrowing can occur during an OSSP where the following conditions are met:
you have an outstanding Borrowing (other than one subject to a Requested Recall)
for a Securities Clearance Account that is being credited with securities with the same Security Code against
payment
which is in the same OSSP where reimbursement of the Borrowing becomes possible.
The amount of securities in the Linked Reimbursement and receipt Instruction do not need to be the same.
For a Linked Reimbursement to be successfully positioned and to reimburse part of the Borrowing there must either be
sufficient:
securities of the issue to be credited for the receipt Instruction in your Securities Clearance Account
cash (or provision of cash) or receipt of a credit line from us, as determined by us in our banking capacity, in
the Settlement Currency in your Cash Account once the reduction in credit usage from the repayment of the
Borrowing is taken into account for us to make a payment against the receipt of securities (subject to our
timely notification of their deposit in the Euroclear System).

5.2.2.2.

Successful and unsuccessful positioning

(a) If positioning is successful, the internal Instructions will be executed during the relevant Processing.
(b) If positioning is unsuccessful, the internal Instructions remain in the backlog of unexecuted Instructions and continue
to be entered into subsequent Processings for which they are eligible until executed or cancelled.

5.2.2.3.

Cancellation of Instructions

The following rules apply except as otherwise set out in the Online Market Guides.
In addition to the general rules on cancellation in Section 4.1.5, with the exception of some securities, we will cancel
unmatched internal Instructions at the end of each Business Day that have either:
an input date
an expected Settlement Date

February 2016

Page 80

EXE50082

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

which is more than 30 calendar days prior to that Business Day. We will take the later of the two dates into
account for this cancellation.
You may request to be excluded from our daily clearing.

5.2.2.4.

Credit and debit of Accounts

(a) Following the completion of a Processing in which your internal Instruction is executed we make:
For receipt of securities

a credit to your Securities Clearance Account and, if against
payment, a debit to the related Cash Account

For delivery of securities

a debit to your Securities Clearance Account and, if against
payment, a credit to the related Cash Account

(b) For the purposes of internal settlement, credits and debits are made to our account records held in Belgium. In
exceptional circumstances, we may temporarily rely on records located outside of Belgium. For the sake of internal
settlement, such records are deemed to be located in Belgium.

5.2.2.5.

Settlement and Finality

(a) Internal settlement finality occurs:
For the OSSP

Upon completion of the Processing as a result of which the
Instruction is successfully executed

For the RTP

At the moment of successful execution and the simultaneous
credit/debit of Accounts

(b) The settlement of an internal Instruction is final upon execution and the credit/debit of Accounts. As such, the
simultaneous transfer of securities and cash (if against payment) is final at such time.

5.2.3

Bridge settlement

(a) Bridge settlement takes place by simultaneous book entries in the form of a credit or debit of securities to your
Securities Clearance Account (or Transit Account) and debit or credit of securities to the Securities Clearance Account
of Clearstream. If against payment, it will also include a credit or debit of cash to your Cash Account (or Transit
Account) and debit or credit of cash to the Cash Account of Clearstream.
(b) We only accept Bridge Instructions for Bridge eligible securities.
(c) Bridge transactions can be settled in the Euroclear System either free of payment or against payment in any Bridge
Currency.
(d) Local market holidays have no bearing on Bridge settlement transactions in the Euroclear System. You may
however wish to take local market holidays into account when choosing the Settlement Currency or Settlement Date for
your Instructions.
(e) From time to time Euroclear Bank and Clearstream realign the securities positions we hold with each other. Such
realignments are not related to settlement of transactions but may affect securities deliveries out of the Euroclear
System (see Section 5.2.4.3) and also your ability to participate in a particular Corporate Action.

February 2016

Page 81

EXE50083

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

Realignments may also affect Instructions related to Corporate Actions that require delivery of securities received over
the Bridge.
(f) We reserve the right to refuse to process Bridge Instructions if the processing would:
create an operational constraint that we deem unacceptable
be inconsistent with the Bridge Agreement, these Operating Procedures or the Euroclear Documentation.
(g) For Bridge settlement we accept no liability for:
the authenticity, completeness, contents or timeliness of Instruction data we receive from Clearstream
our processing and reporting of such instruction data
Clearstream processing, refusing to process and reporting to its members the information it receives from us
in accordance with the Bridge Agreement
Clearstream processing Instructions to be proposed to us in the framework of the Bridge Agreement, including
the refusal by Clearstream to propose and process Instructions
any loss you incur by relying on the delivery of securities over the Bridge in order to participate in a Corporate
Action that requires delivery of those securities on the same day they were received
losses resulting from a realignment which does not occur due to reasons outside of our control e.g. local
market rules or procedures
the consequences of our refusal to process Bridge Instructions
your Bridge Instructions not being executed on the day you instructed as a result of our risk management
procedures (see Section 5.2.3.1).

5.2.3.1.

Risk management procedures

(a) To meet applicable industry standards, such as the ECB-CESR Standards for Clearing and Settlement Systems in
Clearstream have established risk management procedures to limit credit exposure over the Bridge.
(b) In accordance with the terms of the Bridge Agreement, each receiving settlement system ensures that the cash
countervalue of delivered securities from the delivering settlement system is not greater than:
The amount of the applicable letter of credit (or other collateral) issued by the receiving settlement system in favour
of the delivering settlement system
Plus
The cash countervalue of the next deliveries of securities to be proposed by the receiving settlement system
Any deliveries of securities which would exceed this threshold are refused, under the terms of the Bridge Agreement.
(c) You should be aware (and plan accordingly) that as a result of these risk management procedures, Bridge
Instructions may be delayed and settle in the RTP rather than the OSSP. Exceptionally, they may be delayed so that
they do not settle on a given Settlement Date.
We do not guarantee the settlement time of Bridge Instructions.

5.2.3.2.

Settlement Conditions

5.2.3.2.1.

Input, deadlines and validation

(a) We must receive your Bridge Instructions by the Input Deadline set forth in the Euroclear Documentation. Any late
Bridge Instructions will be entered into the next Processing for which they are eligible.

February 2016

Page 82

EXE50084

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

(b) After authentication of your input we must validate your Bridge Instructions before they can be selected for
submission to a Processing. If validation is successful, the Bridge Instruction is submitted for processing. If the
validation is unsuccessful, we will reject the Instruction and will notify you of this rejection.
You can cancel your successfully validated Instructions as set out in Section 4.1.5.

5.2.3.2.2.

Matching

(a) In order for an Instruction to match and be submitted for further processing, it must first be included in a prematching transmission.
(b) Bridge receipt and delivery Instructions must match with their corresponding delivery and receipt Instructions from
Clearstream (except for Free of Payment Delivery Without Matching Instructions). If you choose to transfer or deliver
securities without matching Instructions or use Free of Payment Delivery Without Matching Instructions you assume the
risk linked to the absence of matching such Instructions.
(c) When we receive a valid Bridge Instruction that requires matching from you or Clearstream via a pre-matching
transmission, we will search the backlog of unexecuted Instructions for a corresponding matching Instruction. If we
nstructions (one from you,

Backlog searched
Instruction received
for matching
Instruction

Unmatched
Instructions added to
the backlog

Pairs marked as

(d) Matched Bridge Instructions (and Bridge Free of Payment Delivery Without Matching Instructions) are put into the
pool of unexecuted Instructions until selected for submission to a Processing.
Unmatched Bridge Instructions are put into the backlog and recycled until matched or cancelled.
(e) The fields of a Bridge Instruction which must match and the relevant tolerance levels are set forth on our website.

5.2.3.2.3.

Selection for processing and positioning

(a) Valid Bridge receipt Instructions (matched where necessary) are put into the pool of unexecuted matched
Instructions until we receive a Clearstream Delivery Transmission containing the corresponding delivery Instruction.
(b) For each delivery Instruction in the Clearstream Delivery Transmission received, equivalent delivery Instructions
previously included in a pre-matching transmission from Clearstream in the backlog of unexecuted Instructions are
looked for with the following results:
Situation

Action

There is no matching receipt Instruction
Receipt Instruction is found and matched

receipt Instruction are submitted for processing

(c) Valid Bridge delivery Instructions (matched where necessary) are put into the pool of unexecuted matched
Instructions until submission to Clearstream for processing. We will report the delivery as settled once we receive notice
of acceptance by Clearstream through their Feedback Transmission.
(d) Both Bridge delivery and receipt Instructions need a Daylight Indicator in order to be eligible for settlement during the
Optional Bridge Settlement Processing.

February 2016

Page 83

EXE50085

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

(e) Once a Bridge Instruction has been selected for submission to a Processing, it will be sequenced in accordance with
Section 5.2.1 taking into account your priorities and options. If Instructions remain unsettled, the following actions are
taken:
Situation

Action

Bridge delivery Instruction remains unsettled after OSSP

Positioning is cancelled at the start of the RTP and we
will automatically resubmit the Instruction for positioning
for processing in the RTP

Bridge delivery Instruction remains unsettled after RTP

We cancel the positioning and then recycle the
Instruction for the next Business Day (unless you cancel
the Instruction)

The rules on cancellation of positioning are as follows:
Situation

Action

For Bridge delivery Instructions eligible for the Optional
Bridge Settlement Processing

Cancellation does not occur until receipt of the final
Feedback Transmission from Clearstream during the
Optional Bridge Settlement Process on the relevant
Business Day

For Bridge delivery Instructions not eligible for the
Optional Bridge Settlement Processing

Cancellation does not occur until receipt of the final
Feedback Transmission from Clearstream during the
relevant RTP

Positioning Conditions for a Bridge Instruction
Securities positioning

If your Account is to be debited with securities you must
have sufficient securities available in your Account
AND
For against payment Instructions we will check

Cash positioning

If your Account is to be debited with cash then you must
have sufficient cash in your Account (or provision of cash)
in the relevant Settlement Currency to meet the
Instruction or receive a credit line from us (as determined
by us in our banking capacity) to meet the Instruction

(f) When deciding if your Instructions meet the Positioning Conditions we will see if they are System-linked Instructions
for the purposes of technical netting or Linked Reimbursements (see Section 5.2.2.1.4).

5.2.3.3.

Successful and unsuccessful positioning

Successful positioning
(a) If positioning is successful, a Bridge receipt Instruction is executed following the receipt of the delivery Instruction in
the Clearstream Delivery Transmission in which the Instruction meets the Settlement Conditions. After processing, a
Feedback Transmission is sent informing Clearstream of the status of their proposed deliveries.
(b) If positioning is successful, a Bridge delivery Instruction is executed in the first Processing in which the Instruction
meets the Settlement Conditions.
(c) At the end of the OSSP and at certain points of time during the RTS, we send to Clearstream a Euroclear Delivery
Transmission containing all Bridge delivery Instructions positioned by such time.

February 2016

Page 84

EXE50086

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(d) After processing by Clearstream, they will inform us by a Feedback Transmission whether Instructions in our
Delivery Transmission have been accepted or not.
Unsuccessful positioning
(e) If positioning is unsuccessful, the Bridge Instructions remain in the backlog of unexecuted Instructions and continue
to be entered into subsequent Processings for which they are eligible until executed or cancelled. For Bridge deliveries,
no proposed delivery Instruction is sent to Clearstream.
(f) A proposed delivery Instruction included in a Clearstream Delivery Transmission that fails to be executed may be
included in a later Clearstream Delivery Transmission.

5.2.3.4.

Cancellation of Instructions

(a) The following rules apply except as otherwise set out in the Online Market Guides.
(b) In addition to the general rules on cancellation in Section 4.1.5, with the exception of some securities, we will cancel
unmatched Bridge Instructions at the end of each Business Day that have either:
an input date
an expected Settlement Date
which is more than 30 calendar days prior to that Business Day. We will take the later of the two dates into account for
this cancellation.
You may request to be excluded from our daily cleaning.
(c) Except in the event of an issuer default, we will cancel pending Bridge Instructions on the final maturity date of the
securities.
(d) During the RTP you can only cancel successfully positioned Bridge delivery Instructions if the proposed delivery is
refused by Clearstream. All proposed Bridge delivery Instructions refused by Clearstream for which cancellation is
pending will be cancelled once we receive the relevant Feedback Transmission from Clearstream.

5.2.3.5.

Refusal of deliveries by Clearstream

(a) Bridge delivery Instructions that are refused by Clearstream will be re-attempted for settlement.
(b) Upon receipt of the final Feedback Transmission from Clearstream for a Processing which indicates that a proposed
delivery has been refused, we will re-credit any provisionally debited securities to your Account and will debit the related
Transit Account in the next available Processing.
Any provisional credit of cash related to the attempted Bridge delivery will also be debited from your Account with the
same Value Date.

5.2.3.6.

Credit and debit of Accounts

(a) Notwithstanding the information contained in reports we provide, credits and debits resulting from the execution of a
Bridge Instruction may be final or provisional as set out in Section 2.3 and may be reversed as set out in Section 3.2. In
particular Section 3.2(b), which deals with reversals in case of non-payment from Clearstream to us, explains the
circumstances in which we may reverse such credits and debits in your Account(s).

February 2016

Page 85

EXE50087

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

(b) After the execution of a Bridge receipt Instruction, we will:
credit securities to your Securities Clearance Account
debit cash from the related Cash Account (if against payment)
with the Value Date of the relevant Processing (unless shown otherwise in Section 5.2.3.7 (c) below).
(c) We may apply Back Value to Bridge Instructions involving Newly-Issued Securities which either:
settle in the OSSP
are selected for processing in the OSSP but settle in the RTP.
The above is subject to Section 5.1.4.4

5.2.3.7.

Back Value procedure.

Settlement and Finality

(a) Settlement of Bridge Instructions occurs when:
the Processing is completed
the Instruction is executed
we receive appropriate Feedback Transmission from Clearstream (including confirmation of acceptance for
deliveries) or Clearstream receives appropriate Feedback Transmission from us (including confirmation of
acceptance of receipts).
(b) Notwithstanding that we may report credits and debits as final or provisional, settlement of a Bridge Instruction in the
OSSP becomes final when:
i.
ii.

Feedback Transmission is sent and received; and
Delivery Transmission is sent and received and either:
o
positive Verification Communication is received
o
15 minutes after the later of (i) and (ii) if no negative Verification Communication has been received.

(c) Notwithstanding that we may report credits and debits as final or provisional, settlement of a Bridge Instruction in the
RTP becomes final:
For receipts

when securities are credited to your Securities
Clearance Account

For deliveries

when Clearstream records the credit of securities. The
simultaneous transfer of securities and cash (for against
payment Instructions) is final at such time.
You should note that we only become aware of the
finality upon receipt of the Feedback Transmission

(d) You may not be able to use cash from a Bridge delivery transaction until we have received the Feedback
Transmission from Clearstream.

5.2.4

External settlement

(a) External settlement takes place by simultaneous book entries in the form of a debit/credit of securities to your
Securities Clearance Account and a credit/debit of cash to an account in a local market which may be an account at the

February 2016

Page 86

EXE50088

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

If the transaction is against payment there will also be a debit/credit to your Cash Account and a credit/debit to a cash
account in the local market.
If the settlement is through a physical receipt/delivery of securities, it will occur to or from an account outside the
Euroclear System with corresponding movements into your related Transit Account.
(b) We only accept external receipt Instructions for eligible securities (see Section 5.1.1).
(c) External settlement Instructions can be settled in the local market either against or free of payment. Information on
securities eligible for external settlement against payment in specific local markets can be found in the Online Market
Guides. Payment can only be made in the Settlement Currency of the local market unless stated otherwise in the
Euroclear Documentation.
(d) For some external Instructions, local market rules or practices may require an irrevocable commitment from us to
pay cash for settlement of receipts in the local market, either:
once an Instruction has been transmitted to the local market
from the trade date of a stock exchange transaction in markets where such transaction is automatically fed by
the stock exchange into the local clearance system
at a time specified by local market rules.
Our exposure generated by this pre-settlement commitment constitutes an extension of credit. Such credit extension is
existing between us.
When we extend credit to you, you pledge your contractual claims against us for the delivery of the securities to be
received from the local market. This is in line with the general pledge as set out in Section 3.5.2 and without prejudice to
any other existing collateral arrangements.
Our books and records act as sufficient evidence for our credit claims resulting from the situations envisaged above.
(e) References to Depositories shall include Other Settlement Systems where relevant.
(f) We do not guarantee the settlement time of external Instructions.

5.2.4.1.

Application of local market rules

(a) External settlement may be affected by local market rules (as from the moment they enter into force in the relevant
local market) or the nature of the link with the local market as specified in the Online Market Guides.
You are required to comply with all local laws and all requirements stated in the governing documentation of issuers.
(b) It is your responsibility to research the risks of holding or settling securities in local markets.
(c) In some domestic markets there may be limitations to the maximum amount, either of cash to pay or securities to
deliver or other restrictive conditions deriving from either:
local laws or regulations
the rules of a local clearing or settlement system
our agreement with our local agent.
Such limits may cause the failure of settlement Instructions to settle on a given Settlement Date.

February 2016

Page 87

EXE50089

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(d) For external settlement we accept no liability for:
consequences of the execution or non-execution of receipt or delivery against payment Instructions that arise
from exchanges of securities and cash not happening at the same time
the lack of delivery versus payment in the local market
the non-execution of new Instructions submitted in accordance with Section 4.1.5.3 above, if the nonexecution was caused by a delay of acceptance or rejection of your cancellation request on the relevant local
market
failure to match Instructions
delay or failure of local settlement
information we provide you with on the risks of holding or settling securities in the local markets
our use of an Other Settlement System to settle and hold certain Multi-listed Securities in Remote Markets
for certain categories of Multi-listed securities
any Instruction that, having met the Settlement Conditions, fails to settle or is delayed as a result of limits or
restrictive conditions.
(e) The range and the level of services we provide for certain categories of Multi-listed securities may differ from the
services usually provided for similar securities we deposit with a Specialised Depository or Other Settlement System
established in the country of issue of the securities.

5.2.4.2.

Receipts

(a) Securities in physical form may be deposited by you or by other parties for credit to your Securities Clearance
Account.
Nothing in these Operating Procedures creates an obligation for us towards anyone who deposits securities in physical
form for credit to your Account or requires us to act as their agent in respect of such securities.
(b) Securities in physical form can only be deposited or transferred into the Euroclear System for credit to an Account,
either:
at the Specialised Depository designated for the issue
by transfer to one of our accounts in an Other Settlement System.
You consent to our appointment of Depositories and Other Settlement Systems shown in the Euroclear Documentation.
(c) Securities held in dematerialised, registered, electronic or other book-entry form can only be deposited by book-entry
transfer as described in each country section of the Online Market Guides. We can hold such securities on your behalf
directly on the books of the issuer, the registrar or its agent.
(d) Depositories initially receiving securities will only accept them for our account if:
the securities are accepted by us and conform to the information on such securities shown in the receipt
advice
the Securities Clearance Account number is indicated and corresponds to your name as shown in the delivery
advice.
Likewise, we only accept securities for delivery to our accounts in Other Settlement Systems if:
we have accepted the securities
we are able to identify which Securities Clearance Account needs to be credited.
We have the right not to accept securities where the Depository or Other Settlement System has received (or identified
post-realignment) the following:

February 2016

Page 88

EXE50090

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

Type of security

Exceptions/Comments

A temporary certificate

If delivered after the date on which permanent securities
are available

A mutilated security

Unless the trustee, registrar, Transfer Agent or issuer
provides written confirmation that the security is still valid
for transfer

A security called for redemption

-

A security not accompanied by appropriate warrants,
rights and coupons

Unless the missing coupon is replaced by an evidenced
payment of equal value

A security in registered form

Unless registered to the bearer, in correct nominee
name or accompanied by complete and correct transfer
documents according to local market rules

A security that is not validly issued or fully paid

Except if specifically agreed with us

A security that is subject to a published notification of
opposition or any other circumstance which affects its
free transferability in any relevant market

If we discover such restrictions on a security after
acceptance into the Euroclear System we can block or
debit the security from a holders Account

5.2.4.3.

Deliveries

(a) Securities available for delivery and subject to local regulations may be delivered or transferred out of the Euroclear
System either free of payment or against payment (for securities eligible for delivery against payment).
Delivery of securities by a Depository or Other Settlement System will only take place if you send Instructions which
comply with the rules in Part IV (Connectivity) of these Operating Procedures.
(b) Subject to applicable regulations, we may, either directly or through a Depository:
exchange information about refused deposits with interested parties, including local authorities
return refused securities to the relevant depositors/issuers
take other appropriate action, including retaining securities whilst awaiting any legitimate claims to them.
Methods of delivery
(c) To enable the delivery or transfer of securities we will either perform (or request the relevant Specialised Depository
to perform) the following actions:
For securities in physical form, to deliver securities either:
to the national postal system of the Specialised Depository designated for the issue for forwarding by
registered or value declared mail
within the boundaries of the city in which the Depository or the Specialised Depository is located
by armoured car or air-courier service
to a courier service for delivery anywhere in the world.
For other types of securities, transfer securities:
in accordance with the procedures of the relevant clearing or settlement system, Transfer Agent or registrar.

February 2016

Page 89

EXE50091

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Risk of loss or delay
(d) Risk of loss or delay from the transport of securities you transfer or deliver out of the Euroclear System is borne by
you once they are deposited in the mail, armoured car or courier service. At such time they cease to be held in the
Euroclear System. We may however continue to insure such securities at this time.
We try to ensure that deliveries are made on the date you instruct or the relevant Execution Date but cannot guarantee
such timing.
(e) You must inform both us and the instructing counterparty (who must also inform us) as soon as possible if you do
not receive an expected delivery of securities. Recovery rights under the insurance policies may be affected if we do not
receive prompt notice from you.
When we receive notice of the non receipt and satisfactory evidence of the loss, then you appoint us as your attorneyin-fact to take any actions we deem appropriate to protect you. This in no way constitutes an acceptance of liability by
us.
Such actions may include either:
notifying the trustee, fiscal or other relevant agent for the issue and requesting publication of the information
notifying the board of ISMA
notifying the relevant Depositories
notifying Clearstream or other relevant clearing systems
taking all steps to initiate, maintain and cancel any opposition proceedings or related actions in relevant
countries
taking all steps to initiate invalidation and re-issuance procedures
any other measures we deem necessary.
(f) If you, independently, want to initiate, maintain or cancel opposition proceedings or related actions, you must inform
us. We accept no liability for your actions and we will not take any other action on your behalf.
(g) We will take no legal action (other than our obligation to cooperate with the insurer) to recover securities and provide
no representation if judicial proceedings are brought against you.
(h) We will inform you of any actions that have been taken in relation to your non-receipt of securities and accept no
liability for any loss caused by or arising from actions taken or not taken by us in such instance.
(i) If our insurer (upon payment of any indemnification or replacement of securities) under the insurance policy provides
compensation from which you benefit, they will be fully subrogated to all rights and claims you had against third parties,
including the rights to obtain the re-issuance of such securities.
We have the right to debit your Cash Account for any fees, costs or expenses incurred by us in connection with any
action taken in accordance with this section.

5.2.4.4.

Settlement Conditions

5.2.4.4.1.

Input, deadlines and validation

(a) We will only accept and process your valid external Instructions if they comply with Part IV (Connectivity) of these
Operating Procedures and the Settlement Conditions set out below.
Securities received by a Depository for credit to a New Issues Securities Clearance Account or short and medium-term
instruments Securities Clearance Account, will be credited without requiring any Instruction from you.
(b)
Online Market Guides. If no Instructions to receive securities are required from the recipient of the securities, then they

February 2016

Page 90

EXE50092

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

will be automatically credited by us to the relevant Securities Clearance Account upon notice of their receipt from a
Depository or Other Settlement System.
(c)
Instructions received after the Input Deadline will be considered for the next Processing for which they are eligible.
(d) After authentication of the input requirements, validation of an Instruction will take place before selection for
processing. The general rules of validation of external Instructions are described in Part IV (Connectivity) of these
Operating Procedures but can be affected by local market rules and the security type.
Valid external Instructions will be submitted for further processing. However, if such Instructions are found to be invalid,
we will reject them and notify you of this rejection.
You can cancel your successfully validated external Instructions as set out in Section 4.1.5.

5.2.4.4.2.

Matching

(a) Where external receipt Instructions require matching, they must match with a notification of a delivery of securities
from a Depository or Other Settlement System.
(b) External Instructions may also require matching in the local market (see the Online Market Guides). Matching rules,
tolerances and priorities vary depending on local market rules.
(c) If we receive a matching notification from the local market before positioning an external receipt Instruction, the cash
countervalue indicated by the seller (if different from that indicated by you as buyer) will be used for execution.
Otherwise, we will use your cash countervalue for execution.
We reserve the right to adjust your Cash Account for any difference between the cash amount used for execution in the
Euroclear System and that used for settlement in the local market.

5.2.4.4.3.

Unsuccessful matching

Receipts from the local market
(a) If we do not receive your matching Instructions, once the Depository or Other Settlement System notifies us of the
receipt of securities for your Account, we will credit them to your linked Transit Account. This takes place during the
OSSP and RTP. Securities will remain in your Transit Account until:
Input

Our Action

You provide appropriate matching Instructions

We credit the securities to your Securities Clearance
Account

You indicate your refusal of the securities

We initiate the return of the securities to the depositor as
soon as practicable

The depositor submits a request to us to reclaim the
securities

No earlier than 5 Business Days after the initial credit to
your Transit Account (unless you agree to an earlier
date) we will return the securities to the depositor.
The Instruction from the depositor must be delivered to
us and any Instruction to a Depository or to an Other
Settlement System will be disregarded

If none of the above occurs, we will wait 5 Business Days after the initial credit to your Transit Account and then return
the securities to the depositor.

February 2016

Page 91

EXE50093

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(b) In the event that securities are to be returned, we will debit your Transit Account in the first Processing after the
initiation of the return. If we receive your matching Instructions in sufficient time, determined by us in our sole discretion,
before the return of securities is initiated by us, we may cease processing such return and instead process your
matching Instructions.
Deliveries to the local market
(c) Where local market practice requires settlement Instructions to match, the Depository may not deliver the securities
in the local market until matching has occurred (if possible).
(d) Where matching is not required, securities already debited will be recredited to the relevant Securities Clearance
Account and debited to the related Transit Account during the first Processing following receipt of the notification.

5.2.4.4.4.

Selection for processing and positioning

(a) A valid external Instruction which has been matched (if necessary) may be selected for submission to a Processing
only if the Settlement Date has been reached. Such Instruction may be selected for submission to a Processing before
we have received matching notification from the local market.
(b) If the Execution Date is not a Business Day, the Instruction will be selected for submission to the first Processing in
which it is eligible on the next Business Day.
(c) Securities received at a Depository before the Settlement Date in your matched receipt Instruction may be credited
to your Transit Account. The securities will be moved to your Securities Clearance Account as a result of either:
the first Processing after we reinstate a valid matching Instruction by reversing your cancellation
the OSSP following the Input Date of the Instruction.
(d) Your free of payment Instructions may be submitted to the first Processing following confirmation of the receipt of
securities from the Depository or Other Settlement System regardless of your indicated Settlement Date.

5.2.4.4.5.

Processing of local market confirmations

(a) We will process confirmations of settlement results that we receive from a Depository or Other Settlement System,
either:
before or during the RTP
after the closure of the RTP or during the OSSP.
This processing will occur as soon as possible following receipt of securities and/or cash with a resulting credit or debit
of securities and cash to or from your Account(s).
(b) Confirmations of receipt of cash we receive from a Cash Correspondent are processed in accordance with Part V:
Section 4 (Money Transfer Instructions) of these Operating Procedures.

5.2.4.5.

Successful and unsuccessful positioning

(a) If the Execution Date is not a Business Day or if the Settlement Conditions are not satisfied, Instructions are
executed in the first following Processing dated a Business Day in which the Settlement Conditions are met.
(b) If positioning is successful, against payment external receipt Instructions are executed for:

February 2016

Page 92

EXE50094

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

Security Type

Processing

Local market securities

In the RTP of the Business Day set out in the Online
Market Guides for that local market

International securities

In the RTP of the Business Day prior to the Instructions
Settlement Date; or
- if the Settlement Date has passed, during the RTP in
which the Instruction is received (if before the Input
Deadline as set out in the Euroclear Documentation); or
- in the RTP following receipt of the Instruction

(c) The successfully positioned cash is no longer available for other Instructions or operations after execution of the
external receipt against payment Instructions even if the corresponding debit to the Cash Account has not yet been
made.
(d) If we act on an external receipt against payment Instruction and can no longer revoke or reverse the Instruction, you
are obliged to reimburse us for any payment we make for the securities received in the local market. We have the right
to debit your Cash Account for such amount.
(e) External delivery Instructions are executed for:
Security Type

Processing

Domestic market securities

In the Processing on the Business Day shown in the
relevant market section of the Online Market Guides

International securities

In the OSSP of the Business Day prior to the Instructions
Settlement Date; or
if the Settlement Date has passed, during the OSSP
following receipt of the Instruction

(f) If positioning is unsuccessful the external Instructions remain in the backlog of unexecuted Instructions and continue
to be entered into subsequent Processings for which they are eligible until executed or cancelled.

5.2.4.6.

Cancellation of Instructions

(a) The following rules apply except as otherwise set out in the Online Market Guides.
(b) We automatically cancel external Instructions if they remain in the backlog of unexecuted Instructions 4 Business
Days after the intended Settlement Date (S+4).
We will attempt to position valid Instructions (matched if necessary) which we receive after S+4 once before
cancellation.

5.2.4.7.

Refusal of securities

Receipts from the local market
(a) We will refuse securities if their corresponding Instructions are unmatched or do not meet the Settlement Conditions.
(b) If tendered securities that have been received in the local market are refused:

February 2016

Page 93

EXE50095

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

external receipt Instructions will remain in the backlog of unexecuted Instructions
the relevant Transit Account is credited until the issue is resolved.
Deliveries to the local market
(c) If securities you deliver out of the Euroclear System are refused by the recipient we may reattempt to deliver your
refused securities as set out in the Euroclear Documentation.
Upon refusal by an intended recipient, securities may be recredited to your Securities Clearance Account (with the
related Transit Account receiving a debit). In this case, positioning will take place before we reattempt to deliver the
security.
(d) If securities previously delivered out of the Euroclear System are returned to a Depository or Other Settlement
System for our account and such return is reported to us as a refusal, then your Securities Clearance Account will be
recredited.
In the absence of acceptance or upon confirmation of refusal, the securities are debited from the Transit Account and
recredited to your Securities Clearance Account.
(e) You will be notified of any such refusals and credits/debits of securities.

5.2.4.8.

Credit and debit of Accounts

(a) Credits and debits which result from the execution of an external Instruction may be final or provisional as set out in
Section 2.3 and reversed as set out in Section 3.2.
(b) Upon notice of receipt of securities for our account from the Depository, Other Settlement System or the issue
agent, we will make:
a credit to your Securities Clearance Account
a debit to your Cash Account (if against payment).
(c) Upon the successful execution of an external delivery Instruction, we will make:
a provisional debit to your Securities Clearance Account
a provisional credit to your Transit Account
a credit to your Cash Account (if against payment) upon notice that cash has been received for our account.
(d) Securities will remain credited to your Transit Account until the first Processing after one of the following events
occurs:
we receive confirmation of delivery of the securities out of the Euroclear System
6 or more Business Days have passed since free of payment external delivery occurred and no refusal notice
has been received from the local market
we have received notification of refusal in the relevant local market. In this case we will also recredit your
Securities Clearance Account.

5.2.4.9.

Settlement and Finality

Settlement and finality occurs in the local market in accordance with local market rules and practice.

February 2016

Page 94

EXE50096

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

Part V: Section 3
Part V: Section 3
5.3.1

Custody

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Custody Services

Custody Services ............................................................................................... 95
General rules..................................................................................................... 97

5.3.1.1

Information provided for Corporate Actions ............................................................................................. 97

5.3.1.2

Corporate Action reports ......................................................................................................................... 97

5.3.1.2.1

Other securities information available................................................................................................. 98

5.3.1.3

Services for securities in default.............................................................................................................. 98

5.3.1.4

Execution of Custody Operations ............................................................................................................ 98

5.3.1.4.1

Custody Operation Conditions............................................................................................................ 99

5.3.1.4.2

Processing rules for Custody Operations ......................................................................................... 102

5.3.1.5

Custody Distributions ............................................................................................................................ 103

5.3.1.5.1

Custody Distributions subject to tax.................................................................................................. 103

5.3.1.5.2

Entitlement to the proceeds of Custody Distributions........................................................................ 104

5.3.1.5.3

Credit of the proceeds of Custody Distributions ................................................................................ 105

5.3.1.5.4

Custody Distributions received after the Record Date ...................................................................... 106

5.3.1.5.5

Custody Distributions in respect of securities in Transit Accounts .................................................... 106

5.3.1.5.6

Custody Distributions in respect of securities in Non-Deposit Accounts ........................................... 106

5.3.1.5.7

Custody Distributions not accepted in the Euroclear System............................................................ 106

5.3.2

Custody

5.3.2.1

Specific custody rules ................................................................................... 108

Collection of income and redemption proceeds..................................................................................... 108

5.3.2.1.1

Calculation method for income payments ......................................................................................... 108

5.3.2.1.2

Final redemption............................................................................................................................... 108

5.3.2.1.3

Partial redemption with reduction of nominal value........................................................................... 108

5.3.2.1.4

Pro-rata redemption and drawing by lottery ...................................................................................... 108

5.3.2.1.5

Currency options on income and redemption ................................................................................... 109

5.3.2.1.6

Automatic currency conversion of income ........................................................................................ 109

5.3.2.2

Taxes .................................................................................................................................................... 110

5.3.2.2.1

Provision of information .................................................................................................................... 110

5.3.2.2.2

Provision of assistance in obtaining tax relief ................................................................................... 111

5.3.2.3

Issues of subscription rights .................................................................................................................. 111

5.3.2.3.1

Exercise and lapse of rights.............................................................................................................. 112

5.3.2.3.2

Deferred payment............................................................................................................................. 112

5.3.2.4

Detachment and reattachment of warrants ........................................................................................... 112

5.3.2.5

Coupon stripping ................................................................................................................................... 113

5.3.2.5.1

Securities eligible for coupon stripping ............................................................................................. 113

5.3.2.5.2

....................................................................... 113

5.3.2.6

Market claims........................................................................................................................................ 114

5.3.2.6.1

Domestic market claims procedure................................................................................................... 115

5.3.2.6.2

Other market claims procedure ........................................................................................................ 116

5.3.2.7

Voting.................................................................................................................................................... 117

5.3.2.7.1

Processing of Instructions to vote ..................................................................................................... 118

5.3.2.7.2

Non-Deposit Accounts...................................................................................................................... 118

5.3.2.8

Certification under applicable U.S. law.................................................................................................. 119

5.3.2.9

Other forms of certification .................................................................................................................... 120

February 2016

Page 95

EXE50097

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.3.2.10

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Global securities ................................................................................................................................... 121

5.3.2.10.1 Exchange for definitive individual or global certificates ..................................................................... 121
5.3.2.10.2 Exercises of warrants or other options.............................................................................................. 121
5.3.2.11

Safekeeping and related services for fractional amounts of funds securities......................................... 121

5.3.2.12

Transformations .................................................................................................................................... 122

February 2016

Page 96

EXE50098

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.3.1

Custody

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

General rules

(a) This general rules section applies to all Custody Operations. Section 5.3.2 sets out any exceptions and additional
rules which apply to certain Custody Operations.
(b) The custody services we provide for Remote Market Securities depend on the services offered by the Depository in
the Remote Market. These can differ from services offered for Home Market Securities.
(c) We sometimes use third parties to provide certain custody services. Our duties and liabilities with respect to the
activities of these third party service providers are set out in Section 12 of the Terms and Conditions. We will inform you
of the appointment of third parties in the relevant market section of the Online Market Guides.

5.3.1.1

Information provided for Corporate Actions

(a) We may report information to you about Corporate Actions when we have received notice in a manner and from a
source satisfactory to us. We may require a formal announcement to the general public of such information before we
do so.
(b) We will decide whether the information we have received is related to a particular Corporate Action.
(c) We do not verify the accuracy or completeness of information we receive and report to you. As such, we accept no
liability for any inaccuracy or incompleteness of such information. Neither do we accept liability for your timely receipt of
our reported information.
(d) Our reports may be summaries or English translations of information received. Reliance on such reports is at your
own risk.
(e) We collect information regarding Corporate Actions on a reasonable effort basis but do not always receive
notification for Corporate Actions set out in the original documentation of the issuance. You should therefore be aware
of the terms and conditions and characteristics of the securities you purchase, hold or intend to hold in your Account(s).
We accept no liability for failing to provide you with information regarding a Corporate Action set forth in the original
documentation of the issuance.
(f) For the avoidance of doubt, we will not contact you via telephone when providing information for Corporate Actions
unless specifically stated in these Operating Procedures.
Third Party Offers
(g) You should be aware that it is our policy not to provide information in respect of offers to purchase securities by
unrelated third parties (i.e. not the issuer or its agent). These offers are not considered Corporate Actions. We are not
licensed to provide a trading platform and we do not provide information related exclusively to trading activity.
(h) If we receive information related to a third party offer to purchase securities which carry voting rights, we will verify
that the offer is related to an announced takeover bid. If we determine that it is, we will treat the offer as a Corporate
Action and will try to provide you with the relevant information via DACE notice. No other information regarding third
party offers is provided.

5.3.1.2

Corporate Action reports

We provide several reports in order to keep you informed of your Corporate Action activity. Information on these reports
can be found

February 2016

Page 97

EXE50099

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.3.1.2.1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Other securities information available

(a) You can access database information for on-line inquiry through EUCLID, EasyWay or our website. The information
is not verified for accuracy or completeness and may not be up to date; we accept no liability for this. Use of this
resource is at your own risk and we do not recommend you use it as a primary resource.
(b) We have the right to use any of the prices from any source we consider reliable (including any prices from
Instructions for settlement in the Euroclear System) for any purpose.

5.3.1.3

Services for securities in default

(a) We will not take any action, legal or otherwise, to enforce your rights against any issuer or any guarantor in respect
of a security.
We authorise you and/or the underlying beneficial owners of such securities to maintain proceedings against issuers,
guarantors and any other parties. This is to the extent that we, our nominee, a Depository or their nominee acts as
registered owner of any security held in the Euroclear System, or in any other relevant situation.
(b) Subject to any applicable law, decree, regulation, order, injunction or request of any governmental agency or body or
other authority, we are not required to take any legal or other action.
(c) Upon your request, we will issue a statement of account for the purpose of the filing of a claim. This statement can
be issued in paper of in electronic form, depending on the claim filing requirements.
If in paper form, the statement of account may be notarised or affixed with an apostille if so requested. Upon
your request, we will state the name of the beneficial owner on the face of such statement based on the
beneficial owner information you provided. Such beneficial owner information is not reflected in our books and
records and is not reviewed or verified by us.
If in electronic form, the statement of account will be sent by us, upon receipt of your instructions, directly to
the entity in charge of the claim filing procedure via SWIFT message or fax.
(d) Once we issue the statement of account for the purpose of filing a claim, we will block the relevant securities holding
referenced in such statement of account to avoid the potential
This blocking will only be lifted:
upon receipt of the original statement of account we provided
or, if such original statement is unavailable, upon receipt of an appropriate indemnity letter from you.

5.3.1.4

Execution of Custody Operations

(a) We execute Custody Operations in the OSSP or RTP. Which Processing is used depends on factors such as:
the Input Deadline
the type of Custody Operation
the time required for validation of the relevant Instruction.
(b) We execute Custody Operations in respect of Corporate Actions either on the basis of your Instruction (where your
Instruction is required) or on the basis of the authorisation set out in (d) below. We have no discretion to instruct any
Corporate Action, including a voting action, in the absence of your instruction where your Instruction is required.
(c) For Corporate Actions where you have a choice, the following shall apply:
if you wish to make an election you must send us an Instruction to that effect before the Input Deadline
the Input Deadline, we will deem you to have chosen the default action as specified in these Operating
Procedures or relevant DACE notice
you authorise us to take any and all actions required to execute your Instruction or the default action (if you did
not send an Instruction), in accordance with these Operating Procedures and the Terms and Conditions
without the need of any further authorisation from you

February 2016

Page 98

EXE50100

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

we reserve the right to block or debit securities of the issue concerned by the default action following the
applicable Input Deadline, until the end of the RTP or until such time as we consider necessary for execution
of the default action.
(d) For Custody Operations where you are not required to send an Instruction, you authorise us to take any and all
actions required to execute such Custody Operation for you in accordance with these Operating Procedures and the
Terms and Conditions without the need of any further authorisation from you. We are not obliged to take an action
unless specified in the Operating Procedures or the relevant DACE notice (or similar notice).
You appoint and authorise us, any Depository or any agent or service provider (designated or authorised by us), as your
true and lawful agent and attorney-in-fact, for the purpose of completing, executing and delivering any required
documents for any Custody Operation on your behalf.
This right does not extend to our completion of paper notices for certain Corporate Actions on your behalf. In order for

5.3.1.4.1

Custody Operation Conditions

We can only execute Custody Operations which meet the necessary conditions. These conditions are listed throughout
this section and outlined below for each type of Custody Operation:
Type of Custody Operation

Conditions

All Custody Operations

the provision of any required documents

Custody Operations which require your Instruction

deadlines, validation conditions and the input of
Instructions
the additional Custody Operation Conditions

Custody Operations which result in the debit/credit of
your Account
5.3.1.4.1.1

Input of Instructions

(a) You must send us Instructions as specified in the relevant DACE notice with the format and contents described in
such DACE notice and the Euroclear Documentation.
(b) We may however in our sole discretion, accept your Instruction even if it does not fit the standard Instruction type
required by the relevant DACE notice.
5.3.1.4.1.2

Deadlines

We must receive your Instructions by the Input Deadline as specified in the relevant DACE notice.
5.3.1.4.1.3

Validation

(a) After authentication of input, Instructions must be validated before being submitted for further processing. The
validation rules are described in Part IV (Connectivity) of these Operating Procedures. You may receive notification that
your Instruction is in the process of validation by us. If you do receive such notice, you should double-check the
Instruction to ensure that the Security Code is correct.
(b) If the validation is successful, we will accept the Instruction for further processing.
(c) Instructions may require additional manual validation. This can result in Instructions passing the computer validation
but being rejected after manual validation. We will inform you of the status of your Instructions as specified in the
Euroclear Documentation.
(d) The validation of an Instruction may necessitate required documents to be verified as complete. Verification of the
contents of any required document is not part of the validation rules.

February 2016

Page 99

EXE50101

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(e) The time required for validation of Instructions can depend on:
the means of communication you use to input your Instruction
the availability, quality and readiness (both as to contents and format) of the information that, in our discretion
is required to permit its execution
the location of the issuer or relevant agents and service providers from whom information is required
the type of Instruction
the need for manual intervention.
(f) If validation is unsuccessful, the Instruction is not accepted for further processing and is rejected by us. We will
inform you of this. You may not receive a rejection notification until after the Input Deadline for the relevant Corporate
Action.
5.3.1.4.1.4

Provision of certifications and other required documents

(a) You are solely responsible for:
determining whether a required document (including certifications that you may need to transmit to us) is
necessary for any of the securities you hold in the Euroclear System
obtaining and reviewing such documents in line with the governing documentation of the issue and/or
provisions of applicable law.
We may inform you, by DACE notice or otherwise, that you need to execute a required document. We do not guarantee
that such documents will be accepted by the issuer, its agent or any other relevant person or that no additional
documents are required.
DACE notices advising of required documents may contain summaries of the terms of certifications, statements or
documents required. Reliance on information contained in such summaries is at your own risk.
(b) You may need to send required documents, either to:
us, we will then pass on the information to the issuer, its agent or any other relevant person as required
the issuer, its agent or any other relevant person.
You are responsible for determining who you should send the documentation to in line with the governing
documentation of the issuance.
(c) You may provide required documents by:
sending a completed document form as required by the governing documentation of the issue
on our website)
sending a Custody Operation Instruction under the electronic certification procedure (as detailed under point
(d) below.
a combination of the above
The electronic certification procedure may be revoked by the issuer of the relevant securities with little or no notice. You
should check the DACE notice for such action on the same day you input your Custody Operation Instruction to ensure
the electronic certification procedure is still valid.
(d) We may advise you by DACE notice that the electronic certification procedure applies. In that case, by sending a
Custody Operation Instruction to us with the requested certification letter in the certification field or with the certification
field left blank, you confirm that you:
have received from us and reviewed all required documents for the relevant securities
have been notified by us of the requirement to complete such required documents
agree (or an underlying beneficial owner agrees) to comply with the certification requirements, the terms and
conditions of the required documents and the applicable laws and regulations

February 2016

Page 100

EXE50102

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

instruct us to confirm your certification of compliance with the terms of the required documents to any relevant
third party.
(e) You should be prepared to complete and send any required documents on the same Business Day that you send
the Custody Operation Instruction.
Your reliance on the electronic certification procedure is at your own risk.
(f) Under the electronic certification procedure, input of your name or Account number in a Custody Operation
Instruction shall be deemed to be equivalent to a manual signature for all purposes.
(g) You are responsible for the accuracy of certifications in respect of any persons or entities you may be acting for. You
agree to indemnify us and hold us harmless for acting upon required documents you send which contain a
misrepresentation.
(h) Required documents must be received by the relevant Input Deadline as specified in the DACE notice (or similar
notice).
If a required document is necessary, you must send us separate Instructions and documents for each Securities
Clearance Account. Failure to do so may have the following consequences:
the Instruction may be rejected after validation
the execution of such Custody Operation or exercise of rights to which such required document relates may
not be effected until you have delivered the completed required document
if you do not provide the appropriate form of certification in a timely manner, your holding of the securities
subject to the certification action may be blocked to the extent they remain uncertified. This blocking can only
be lifted once we receive the requested certification.
Securities credited to your Securities Clearance Account after the certification action will not be blocked. Any cash
received or to be received by us in respect of any certification action will be credited to the relevant Cash Account upon
our receipt and reconciliation of cash and your fulfilment of any certification action.
(i) By sending a Custody Operation Instruction or the required documents, you represent and warrant that you or the
beneficial owner(s) comply with all terms and conditions set forth in:
the governing documentation of the issue or any provision of applicable law
any certification
any other required document relating to a Custody Operation
and that we are allowed to act on such representations and warranties without further investigation.
(j) Once we receive a Custody Operation Instruction or required documents, we are entitled to rely on its accuracy and
completeness as of the date of delivery or signature (as appropriate). Unless you inform us to the contrary, this reliance
will continue until the date of the relevant certification action.
(k) Following our request, you (or an underlying beneficial owner as the case may be) must execute a paper form
certification as required in the governing documentation of the issue or as requested by the issuer, agent or any other
relevant person.
(l) You irrevocably authorise the production of:
any certification or record we retain of an Instruction
any certification or any other documents you deliver to comply with this section
copies of the above listed documents
to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceeding or official inquiry with respect to matters covered by this
section or any such Instruction.

February 2016

Page 101

EXE50103

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.3.1.4.1.5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Additional Custody Operation Conditions

(a) The rules in this section only apply to Custody Operations which result in a credit/debit of securities or cash to your
Account(s).
(b) Valid Instructions are submitted for cash positioning in the RTP during which the securities positioning for such
Custody Operation took place, according to their Execution Date, either as indicated in the Instruction or as required
according to the Custody Operation.
Instructions are submitted to a Processing for securities positioning, according to their Execution Date or as required
according to the Custody Operation as soon as practicable and once validated.
(c) Once selected for processing, the Custody Operation is positioned. Positioning involves determining whether the
following Positioning Conditions have been met:
Securities positioning
If the execution of a Custody Operation requires a debit for the delivery or blocking of securities, sufficient available
securities of the issue must be standing to the credit of your Securities Clearance Account to make the delivery or
to effect the blocking
If the execution of a Custody Operation does not require a debit or a blocking, sufficient available securities of the
issue must be standing to the credit of your Securities Clearance Account on the Record Date
If you have insufficient available securities in your Securities Clearance Account, but have a sufficient amount of
securities of the same issue credited to your Record-keeping Account, then the Positioning Conditions will be
fulfilled for certain Custody Operation types (see Section 5.3.1.4.2)
Custody Operations which require a blocking of securities do not generate Automatic Borrowings. Such
Instructions may be unsuccessfully positioned if you have insufficient available securities in your Securities
Clearance Account.
Cash positioning
If the execution of a Custody Operation necessitates a payment then you require sufficient cash (or provision
of cash) or receipt of a credit line from us, as determined by us in our banking capacity, in the relevant
Settlement Currency in your Cash Account for the payment.
Collateral positioning
You require sufficient collateral if you are to be debited with cash or securities and are granted secured credit
that we may make available to you in our banking capacity.

5.3.1.4.2

Processing rules for Custody Operations

5.3.1.4.2.1

Successful positioning

(a) Subject to Section 5.3.1.4.1.5 and Section 5.3.2.6.1.2, if the execution of a Custody Operation requires a debit for
the delivery or blocking of securities, then we will execute such Custody Operation:
at the earliest, on the Execution Date of the Instruction
at the latest, on the date and time we determine as the deadline for execution of an Instruction.
For some mandatory Custody Operations where no Instruction is required, we will debit or block the securities at the
date and time we deem necessary for processing.
We process Custody Operations in accordance with the priority rules set out in Section 5.2.1.
(b) If the execution of a Custody Operation requires a payment from you then cash is debited from your Cash Account
and the Value Date is determined either:

February 2016

Page 102

EXE50104

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

under the governing documentation of the Corporate Action
as advised by the issuer of the Custody Operation or any agent acting on behalf of such issuer.
(c) If securities positioning is successful, the securities may be debited, blocked and/or Record Date positioned.
If cash positioning is successful, a debit is made to your Cash Account.
(d) If the execution of a Custody Operation requires the delivery of securities, we will automatically generate an external
delivery Instruction on your behalf.
(e) For securities that are in global form, if the execution of the Custody Operation requires the delivery of securities, we
will automatically generate the required Instructions on your behalf to obtain the mark-down of the global security.
(f) Once the Custody Operation has been successfully executed, we will communicate the appropriate information to the
5.3.1.4.2.2

Unsuccessful positioning

(a) Subject to specific custody rules, if cash or securities positioning is unsuccessful then the Custody Operation will not
be executed.
(b) All Custody Operations that are unsuccessfully positioned continue to be entered for processing until executed or
cancelled as follows:
options) which have not met the Custody
Operation Conditions will be cancelled by us at the Input Deadline or Record Date (if applicable) and at the
latest, after 5 Business Days
Custody Operations relating to offers and put options which have not met the Custody Operation Conditions
will be cancelled by us if the Input Deadline for receipt of the Instruction has been reached or the Record Date
(if applicable) has passed
any securities debited or blocked in anticipation of a delivery or exercise of your option/right will be recredited
or unblocked during the OSSP after cancellation of the Custody Operation Instruction.
We will try to inform you promptly of any non-executed Custody Operation but do not guarantee our timeliness in doing
so.
5.3.1.4.2.3

Credits and debits to your Account(s)

(a) For Custody Operations, credits and debits to your Account(s) may take place both in the OSSP and in the RTP.
(b) If a Custody Operation results in the debit of securities from your Account we may credit the securities to a Transit
Account until the credit of the Custody Distribution to the relevant Account.
(c) Credits and debits resulting from the execution of a Custody Operation may be final or provisional.

5.3.1.5

Custody Distributions

Custody Distributions can be accepted in the Euroclear System, and subsequently credited to your Account(s), if they
conform to the rules set out in Section 5.1.1, 5.1.2 and 5.4.1 and more broadly the Terms and Conditions and Operating
Procedures.

5.3.1.5.1

Custody Distributions subject to tax

(a) If we receive a Custody Cash Distribution after withholding or deduction of taxes, duties, fines, penalties or damages
or we are required to make such withholding or deductions ourselves, we will credit you with the net Custody Cash
Distribution.

February 2016

Page 103

EXE50105

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

(b) If before or after we credit a Custody Distribution to your Account(s) we must make a payment for or on account of
taxes, duties, fines, penalties or damages for such Custody Distribution:
you will indemnify and hold us harmless for such payments, pro rata to the amount you received
we are authorised to immediately debit your Account(s) for such amounts.

5.3.1.5.2

Entitlement to the proceeds of Custody Distributions

(a) You are entitled to the proceeds of Custody Distributions resulting from a Corporate Action if you hold the relevant
securities in your Securities Clearance Account on the Record Date or at any other date or period specified by the
issuer.
The Record Date for particular securities may vary due to special circumstances. We will try to inform you of the Record
Date information we receive.
Unless we inform you otherwise, the Record Dates are as follows:
Custody Distribution
Income and redemption proceeds

Record Date
The date indicated in the country section of the Online
Market Guides
or
the Business Day before the Payment Date (for
securities not covered by the Online Market Guides)

All other Custody Distributions

The date specified by the issuer

(b) Securities balances used to determine entitlements for Custody Cash Distributions are those balances at the end of
the RTP dated the Record Date or any other date/period specified by the issuer. These are then adjusted to reflect the
results of receipts and deliveries from the local market received by such date during the RTP.
(c) Securities balances used to determine entitlements for Custody Non-cash Distributions are those balances at the
end of the RTP dated the Record Date or any other date/period specified by the issuer.
(d) The Custody Distributions that we receive are credited (or debited, if the amount of Custody Cash Distributions is
negative, typically due to a negative interest rate) pro rata to the amount of available securities in your Securities
Clearance Account(s) at the time relevant for allocation of entitlements of each issue of securities. This is unless we
receive Instructions to the contrary from the issuer or from you.
The calculation of available securities for Custody Distributions does not include those that are:
blocked or unavailable
registered in the name of the previous holder.
(e) Custody Distributions may result in a market claim (see Section 5.3.2.6).
(f) If an entitlement calculation rule results in a discrepancy (due to the rounding of amounts), we may recalculate your
entitlement by applying the calculation rules used by the issuer or its agent. In case of a recalculation, we reserve the
right to reverse Custody Distributions already credited to your Account(s).

February 2016

Page 104

EXE50106

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.3.1.5.3

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Credit of the proceeds of Custody Distributions

Cash Distributions
(a) Cash to be distributed as a result of a Custody Operation will be either:
credited to the relevant Cash Account during the OSSP after receipt of the notification that cash has been
received in our account with the relevant Cash Correspondent and reconciliation of the Corporate Action
proceeds
advanced as provisional (see Section 2.3), becoming final once
o
we receive the cash for the distribution in our account with the relevant Cash Correspondent
o
we have reconciled the cash.
Exceptionally, in our sole discretion, and not upon your request, we may credit the cash amount during the RTP.
If the amount of Custody Cash Distributions is negative, typically due to a negative interest rate, we may debit your
Cash Account either during the OSSP or during the RTP.
(b) Various factors will be taken into account when considering whether to advance cash following the second option
above. These can include the credit rating of the issuer, your own credit rating and whether we have received
satisfactory and sufficient notice of the date and amount of the payment for the Custody Cash Distribution.
The provisional credit is recorded in your Cash Account either:
in the OSSP dated the Value Date with the same day value if the Value Date is a Business Day and is also a
business day in the country of the relevant Cash Correspondent and cities set by the governing
documentation of the issue
in the OSSP dated the following business day, valued the Value Date.
(c) We reserve the right to defer the credit of cash from a Custody Distribution to your Account or to block such cash if
already credited, until we receive notice of the final receipt of cash from our Cash Correspondent and subsequent
reconciliation is completed.
We also reserve the right to block all or part of any cash proceeds credited to your Account in case they are related to
Cash Distributions performed in a market whose Settlement Currency transferability, convertibility or availability is
affected, as described in Section 16(d) of the Terms and Conditions, until and insofar as said restrictions are removed in
the relevant market (as further described in the relevant market sections of the Online Market Guides).
(d) In exceptional circumstances, we may allow you to irrevocably waive your rights to a credit of your Cash Account
with a Cash Distribution with respect to a particular Corporate Action. This right extends to situations where we believe
that you will not or have chosen not to receive such Cash Distribution through us.
(e) We do not investigate Custody Cash Distributions where the difference between the amount expected and that
received in the Euroclear System is less than EUR 200 (or the equivalent amount in another currency). Neither do we
initiate claims for delayed interest when such compensation is less than EUR 200 (or the equivalent amount in another
currency) or reverse for rounding discrepancies.
Non-cash Distributions
(f) The proceeds of a Non-cash Distribution resulting from a Custody Operation will be credited to your Securities
Clearance Account after notification of receipt of the proceeds in our account at the relevant Depository and our
subsequent reconciliation of Corporate Action proceeds. The credit may be final or provisional.
(g) The proceeds of a Non-cash Distribution for rights distributions, stock splits, amalgamation or other similar actions
will be credited to your Securities Clearance Account in the OSSP dated the Corporate Action date or in the RTP. This
is based on information we receive on the rights or securities distribution, not necessarily based on the confirmation of
receipt by the Depository.

February 2016

Page 105

EXE50107

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(h) If the proceeds considered in (g) are not credited to our account with the Depository, we can:
debit all entries representing holdings in such proceeds in any Account in the Euroclear System
cancel all unexecuted Instructions for such proceeds
delete the Security Code assigned to the proceeds from the securities database.

5.3.1.5.4

Custody Distributions received after the Record Date

Custody Distributions we receive into the Euroclear System after the Record Date are distributed as soon as
practicable. They are made available in the OSSP or Processing after we have received confirmation of credit of the
proceeds of the Custody Distribution to our account and subsequent reconciliation is completed.

5.3.1.5.5

Custody Distributions in respect of securities in Transit Accounts

(a) Custody Distributions we receive in respect of securities credited to a Transit Account on the Record Date will be
transferred to the recipient of such securities either:
on the date of transfer of the securities from the Transit Account to a Securities Clearance Account
on the date of delivery of the securities credited to the Transit Account out of the Euroclear System.
This will not be earlier than the Business Day on which we receive confirmation of the credit of the proceeds of such
Custody Distribution to our account and subsequent reconciliation is completed.
(b) If the securities in the Transit Account are returned to the depositor, the delivery/payment of the proceed
securities/cash will be returned by the Depository following local market practice.
(c) When the securities are credited to a Transit Account on the Record Date due to a delivery Instruction, the proceeds
will be credited to your Account if the securities have been delivered ex-coupon following local market practice and upon
confirmation of receipt of such proceeds from the Depository.

5.3.1.5.6

Custody Distributions in respect of securities in Non-Deposit Accounts

(a) The proceeds of a Custody Distribution we receive for securities temporarily delivered out of the Euroclear System
for voting purposes are credited to the Securities Clearance Account or Cash Account associated with the Account
which held the securities before their expected return was reflected in a Non-Deposit Account. This is in the absence of
directions from the issuer or its agent to the contrary.
The proceeds are credited in the OSSP dated the expected payment date.
(b) The proceeds of a Custody Distribution for securities recorded on a Non-Deposit Account connected to the
FundSettle service will be either:
reflected in the Non-Deposit Account, if it results in an increase in the position registered in your name or your
credited to your Securities Clearance Account and registered in the name of Euroclear Bank SA/NV,
FundSettle EOC Nominees Ltd. or any other nominee controlled by us, if it results in securities eligible in the
Euroclear System
credited to your Cash Account.
This is in the absence of directions from the issuer or its agent to the contrary.

5.3.1.5.7

Custody Distributions not accepted in the Euroclear System

(a) If the proceeds of a Custody Distribution are not accepted into the Euroclear System in accordance with the Terms
and Conditions and these Operating Procedures, we reserve the right to either:

February 2016

Page 106

EXE50108

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

refuse their acceptance
distribute them in accordance with the Terms and Conditions and Operating Procedures and:
o
block such securities in your Account(s)
o
suspend Instructions and requests involving such securities; however, you will be able to send
Instructions to dispose of such securities
suspend all services related to such securities
hold the amount received pending our decision on its appropriate distribution

You must provide Instructions as to the disposal of a Custody Distribution not accepted for deposit in the Euroclear
System by the Input Deadline we specify.
Cash Distributions
(b) If the Custody Cash Distribution is not in a Settlement Currency, we will require you to instruct us as to where the
cash should be paid. Until such time, the cash will be held by the Depository or the agent in charge of handling the
Corporate Action on the market. Once we receive your Instruction, the cash will be transferred to the extent practicable
and as soon as practicable.
Unless you inform us otherwise, we are authorised to provide your name and address to the issuer, its agent or other
relevant person so that delivery can be arranged.
We accept no liability for a Custody Cash Distribution that is not in a Settlement Currency, including for consequences
relating to the bankruptcy of the Cash Correspondent where such Custody Cash Distribution is temporarily held.
Non-cash Distributions
(c) Where a Non-cash Distribution cannot be accepted into the Euroclear System and you have already provided us
with onward delivery Instructions, we will pass such Instructions on to the appropriate agent with the request that they
deliver the distribution in accordance with your Instructions.
Where you have not provided Instructions by an Input Deadline we specify, we can either:
provide your name and address to the issuer, its agent or other relevant person so that delivery to an account
you hold outside the Euroclear System can be arranged
deliver the distribution to such account ourselves.
We accept no liability for the delivery or cost of delivering your Custody Non-cash Distribution.
(d) If you are to receive an Odd Lot which is not accepted in the Euroclear System, we will not credit it to your Account.
We will notify you of this and in response, you can request that we deliver the Odd Lot to a recipient outside the
Euroclear System in the relevant local market.
If within two weeks of such notice from us you have not provided such a request, we can ask a third party to try to
arrange the sale of such Odd Lot notably, but not limited to, cases where such sale is required by law or regulation or
subject to penalties, or if such sale is in the interest of the Euroclear System.
If the third party is able to sell such Odd Lot, we will credit your Account with the net proceeds of the sale. We accept
no liability for the price obtained for such Odd Lot or for any delay in disposing of it.
(e) If the proceeds of a Non-cash Distribution result in fractional amounts of securities or a number of securities that we
cannot allocate in the Euroclear System we can:
request the issuer or its agent to credit an equivalent amount of cash
ask a third party to arrange the sale of the distribution and then credit the relevant Accounts with the net
proceeds of such sale.
(f) Where we attempt to organise a sale we do not guarantee that a sale will be made, nor the terms and conditions
(including price) of any sale that is made.

February 2016

Page 107

EXE50109

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.3.2

Custody

5.3.2.1

Collection of income and redemption proceeds

5.3.2.1.1

Calculation method for income payments

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Specific custody rules

(a) The information we receive is used to calculate the amount of income to be credited to your Cash Account. The
amount of interest per 1,000 units of Settlement Currency is calculated using the following formula:
1,000 x published rate x number of days = zzz.zzzzzz
100
y
pecified in the prospectus.
(b) Any result of this calculation which has more than six decimal places is capped at the sixth decimal place without
rounding.

5.3.2.1.2

Final redemption

(a) If you have a secured credit line with us, granted to you in our banking capacity, then you will benefit from the
collateral value of securities until the OSSP in which the redemption proceeds become available.
(b) Securities approaching redemption are subject to settlement restrictions (see Section 3.4).
(c) We will reflect the final (extended) maturity date in the Euroclear System for securities with an automatically
extendable maturity date. Payment of the redemption proceeds may take place on the initial maturity date if we have
received confirmation from the issuer (or its agent) that payment will take place on such date and will not be
automatically extended.

5.3.2.1.3

Partial redemption with reduction of nominal value

If a partial redemption requires a reduction of the nominal value:
o

o

we cancel all unexecuted settlement Instructions on the Business Day before the redemption date and you
must send new settlement Instructions for a nominal amount that is a multiple of the new denomination
amount
we debit an amount equal to the portion of the redeemed principal:
o
during the OSSP on the redemption date
o
on a later date if the redemption is processed after the redemption date.

5.3.2.1.4

Pro-rata redemption and drawing by lottery

(a) Where there is a pro-rata redemption or a drawing by lottery we will conduct a computerised lottery to allocate the
amounts of securities to be redeemed and to determine the impacted Account(s). Debits for these allocations are
generated in the OSSP the Business Day after allocation in the Euroclear System.
(b) Under our arrangement with Clearstream concerning book-entry transfers, if up to USD 1,000,000 nominal value (or
equivalent) of any issue of securities subject to a drawing by lottery is held in the Euroclear System by Clearstream,
then:
if such securities can be allocated in full to Participants, the securities held by Clearstream will be excluded
from the allocation procedure in the Euroclear System
if such securities cannot be allocated in full to Participants, the securities will be allocated among
Participants and Clearstream in accordance with (a) above.

February 2016

Page 108

EXE50110

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

more than USD 1,000,000 nominal value (or equivalent) then the entire amount of the issue held by Clearstream is
included in the allocation process described in (a) above.
This arrangement includes similar allocation procedures in respect of securities held on our behalf with Clearstream.
(c) When there is a pro-rata redemption or a drawing by lottery of a security held in global form, the interests of
Euroclear Bank and Clearstream are determined at the end of the RTP on the Business Day before the date of
notification of the redemption. The Business Day must be a day when both we and Clearstream are open for business.
This provision applies unless an indication to the contrary is included in the governing documentation of the issue.
The principal amount of such security is allocated pro rata between us and Clearstream. The amount allocated to us will
be distributed amongst Securities Clearance Accounts.
(d) Euroclear Bank and Clearstream do not always execute drawings simultaneously on a processing date. As such, if
you are receiving or delivering securities subject to a drawing through Bridge settlement on or near a drawing date, you
may be unable to participate in the drawing or be subject to the drawing twice.
(e) Where a pro-rata redemption or a drawing by lottery takes place in a local market, we will try to inform you as soon
as we are aware of it. We may block your positions between the time of local processing and our processing if
appropriate.
(f) We cannot process drawings on local market securities until we are provided with the results from the relevant
Depository or Other Settlement System. You will be drawn on your positions available at the time we process the
drawing. As the timing of our processing may be different from that of the local market, the position used may be from a
different Record Date. Our processing rules for drawings may be different from the local market rules.
(g) External settlements of drawn or pro-rata redeemed securities can occur between the time of processing in the local
market and our processing of such local market drawing by lottery or pro-rata redemption. This can cause the position in
the local market to be greater or smaller than our position at the time of processing.
If this occurs, we will debit the Participant(s) that most recently held the relevant securities and delivered them out of the
Euroclear System. This is because those securities will be included in our processing of the drawing or pro-rata
redemption and it is possible a shortfall will arise.
Any shortfall in a Securities Clearance Account created by the external settlement of a drawn or pro-rata redeemed
security must be covered immediately by the relevant Participant(s). In circumstances such as but not limited to cases
where a purchase is required by law or regulation or subject to penalties, or if such purchase is in the interests of the
Euroclear System, we may require a third party to buy the relevant securities to cover the drawing by lottery or pro-rata
redemption for a period of less than 7 Business Days.
In such a case, we will credit your Securities Clearance Account with the purchased securities, and debit your Cash
Account with the corresponding price.

5.3.2.1.5

Currency options on income and redemption

If we do not receive your Custody Operation Instruction to exercise a currency option by the Input Deadline specified in
the relevant DACE notice, we can accept payment in the Settlement Currency shown in the DACE notice specifying a
default currency or exceptionally the currency received from the paying agent.

5.3.2.1.6

Automatic currency conversion of income

(a) Once you register for the automatic currency conversion service, income credited to your Cash Account can be
automatically converted into a Settlement Currency of your choice.
You can choose one of the following options for automatic conversion:

February 2016

Page 109

EXE50111

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

conversion of either dividends or interest
conversion of both dividends and interest
conversion of income credited in a specific Settlement Currency
conversion of income credited in all Settlement Currencies
conversion of income up to a specified maximum amount for each Settlement Currency to be converted on
each Business Day
income to be credited from a specific start date.
(b) You must register for the automatic currency conversion service. A change to registration or revocation of a
registration by 10:00 on a Business Day will be effective 2 Business Days later.
The automatic conversion can be applied to settlement Instructions received before 17:00 on any given Business Day.
(c) The amount of a Settlement Currency to be converted on a given Business Day is determined as follows:
Amount of income to be credited on the next Business Day
+
Income amounts resulting from a market claim or other compensation already processed to be credited
Income amounts resulting from a market claim or other compensation already processed to be debited
Income amounts resulting from a market claim or other compensation to be processed to be debited
(d) We execute the conversion on the Business Day before the date on which the income is to be credited, provided that
it is either:
a business day in the countries of both the currencies
if not such a business day, then the next Business Day
Cash is credited and debited on the day of execution of the conversion and the Value Date of the conversion is the first
Business Day after the Execution Date.

5.3.2.2

Taxes

5.3.2.2.1

Provision of information

(a) We may provide you with information on:
the tax treatment of securities held or to be held in the Euroclear System
types of tax relief available for such securities
eligibility criteria and documentation that may be required for obtaining tax relief at source or through refund
any other tax matter we deem appropriate.
(b) The information we provide is not legal or tax advice and should not be relied upon as such. It is your responsibility
to inform yourself of applicable legal, tax or regulatory requirements and to check if the information we provide you with
is correct, accurate and complete.
(c) We may provide you with information on the number of securities or amount of Custody Distributions on which you
may obtain tax relief services through us. This does not constitute an acknowledgement on our behalf of your
other beneficial owners are entitled to tax relief and, if so, the number of securities and Custody Distributions to which
you are entitled.
(d) You are liable for any taxes, interests, penalties or any other amounts payable in respect of securities held in the
Euroclear System or in respect of transactions with securities held in the Provision of assistance in obtaining
Euroclear System.

February 2016

Page 110

EXE50112

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.3.2.2.2

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Provision of assistance in obtaining tax relief

(a) We may assist you in obtaining tax relief at source or through a refund procedure. This assistance can include:
checking whether documents and information you send to justify tax relief appear to be complete
forwarding such completed documents and information to the relevant intermediary or tax authorities
reporting the status of your tax relief requests to you
depending on the procedure, applying the reduced tax rate on payment date or crediting recovered tax
amounts to your Cash Account.
(b) In the case of depository receipts, the tax assistance set out in (a) is not systematically offered and generally limited
to:
transmission of the information and documentation received from an issuer or its agent (without independently
verifying it)
where a tax relief service is offered by the issuer or its agent at source or through refund, forwarding the
documents to support a tax relief claim we receive from you to an issuer or its agent when required (without
independently verifying them)
crediting any recovered tax amounts to your Cash Account.
(c) We do not guarantee that tax procedures will result in obtaining tax relief either at source or through a refund
procedure, neither do we exclude the possibility of additional procedural requirements with which you must comply.
(d) We may withdraw from taking part in any tax procedure, refuse to process any particular tax claim or cancel pending
tax claims at any time. We accept no liability for taking such actions for whatever reason.
(e) We are not responsible for the correctness, accuracy, timeliness or completeness of documents to support a tax
relief claim we receive from you and process or forward to the relevant persons or authorities.
We may process or forward such documents received after the Euroclear deadline, but accept no liability for errors or
omissions resulting from our processing or forwarding, nor for any damages, costs, taxes, penalties, interests or other
related amounts.
(f) We are not responsible for the value against which any recovered tax amounts are credited or for any delay in
crediting such amounts. The credit of such amounts is provisional until the receipt is final.
(g) If you receive an unwarranted benefit you must refund it along with any interest and penalties. You authorise us to
debit your Cash Account for such amount.
(h) You authorise us, the relevant Depository or Other Settlement System to disclose all required information or
documentation to the relevant local authorities (including tax authorities) or any other appropriate person.
(i) You must notify us immediately of any change which could render any statement in any declaration connected with
tax procedures untrue or incomplete and immediately correct or complete such document.

website.

5.3.2.3

Issues of subscription rights

(a) A separate Security Code will be allocated to subscription rights, accepted for deposit in the Euroclear System, from
the parent security for which the rights are issued. This is unless required otherwise by applicable law, issue
documentation or when we consider otherwise.

February 2016

Page 111

EXE50113

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(b) When we become aware of a forthcoming issue of subscription rights, we will accept settlement Instructions for their
transfer (subject to their terms) but will not execute such Instructions until the subscription
not accept Custody Operation Instructions in respect of subscription rights until after their issuance.
(c) Deposits into, and deliveries out of, the Euroclear System of subscription rights will be executed by the Depository
on the terms we determine.

5.3.2.3.1

Exercise and lapse of rights

(a) Instructions for the sale or purchase of fractional rights will be executed in accordance with market practice. Rights
for which we do not receive an Instruction will be allowed to lapse.
Exceptionally, we may sell any rights (which would otherwise lapse) for your benefit, unless you advise us in writing to
the contrary, in circumstances such as, but not limited to cases where a sale is required by law or regulation or subject
to penalties, or if such sale is in the interests of the Euroclear System.
Such sale will take place in the market and manner, on such terms and for such consideration as we deem appropriate.
We accept no liability for the price obtained for such sales or for any delay in the timing of the sale.
(b) Any of your rights sold are debited from the Account where the rights are located. The net proceeds of the sale are
then credited to your Cash Account pro rata to the amount sold.

5.3.2.3.2

Deferred payment

(a) When, due to the conditions of a right, you are required to pay the subscription price after giving notice of the
exercise, we can accept Instructions to exercise such rights subject to a deferred payment and successful cash
positioning.
(b) If we provide notice of exercise and the cash positioning is unsuccessful on the date on which payment is required,
we are authorised but not obliged to pay the required amount for your Account. You are not relieved of your liability for
such payment or default in these circumstances.
(c) The timing of these payments should correspond to the timings outlined for the appropriate form of money transfer
Instruction as shown in Section 5.4.2.4.

5.3.2.4

Detachment and reattachment of warrants

(a) We may agree to detach (or cause to be detached) warrants or similar attachments issued or attached to other
securities provided that:
the warrants or similar attachments, when detached are freely and customarily traded as separate securities
the detachment will not cause the security from which the warrants or similar attachments are to be detached
to become invalid.
(b) We will submit the Instruction to transfer securities during the OSSP in which the new issue is distributed for
detachment of warrants from a new issue of securities where:
the Execution Date is no later than the OSSP in which the issue is distributed
the Instruction has been input for a Securities Clearance Account which is to receive securities from a new
issues Securities Clearance Account.
(c) We process warrants or ex-warrant securities resulting from detachment of warrants as new issues of securities.
This is performed by internal settlement against payment for settlement on the Closing Date.

February 2016

Page 112

EXE50114

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.3.2.5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Coupon stripping

(a) Detachment of coupons, or coupon stripping, is where interest coupons for future payment dates are separated from
the original security (corpus) which entitles the holder to principal repayments.

separate Security Code, different from the original security.
(b) Coupon stripping in the Euroclear System is by book entry regardless of the form of the original security. The original
security is debited and POs and COs are credited separately. The coupons are not physically detached from the
principle corpus. All unmatured coupons are detached and resulting COs are given a separate Security Code.
(c) Coupon stripping in the Euroclear System is only done at your request provided it is not foreseen by the governing
documentation of the issue. We will not strip coupons where:
coupon stripping is contemplated by an issuer in the structure of the issue (organised stripping)
securities are stripped by or on behalf of custodians that repackage long-term securities (repackaging of
securities)
the governing documentation of the issue prohibits coupon stripping.
(d) You are solely responsible for ensuring that local regulations do not prohibit coupon stripping when sending a
Custody Operation Instruction. We do not investigate this. If you wish to strip securities or hold stripped securities in the
Euroclear System, you do so at your own risk and must consult your tax advisors about tax requirements and
consequences of such actions.
In the event of issuer default, the rights of the holders of POs and COs will be determined in accordance with the
governing documentation of the issue and applicable law.
(e) If CO rights are not recognised and possession of coupons is required for PO holders to exercise their rights, we will
reattach the necessary coupons where possible and CO holders will lose further claims.

5.3.2.5.1

Securities eligible for coupon stripping

Coupons can be stripped from bonds accepted in the Euroclear System that have a fixed rate and frequency of interest
payment, unless:
coupon stripping is contemplated by an issuer in the structure of the issue
the governing documentation of the issue prohibits coupon stripping.

5.3.2.5.2
(a) POs and COs stripped outside the Euroclear System, if accepted for deposit in the Euroclear System, are processed
in accordance with our usual local market procedures for the relevant market of such POs and COs (see the Online
Market Guides).
(b) Custody Operation Instructions for detachment and reattachment are executed (if successfully positioned) in the
on available securities at the end of the RTP.
(c) POs and COs stripped in the Euroclear System may be transferred through internal settlement but may not be
delivered out of the Euroclear System by Bridge or external settlement.
(d) In case of early redemption for tax reasons or partial redemption by drawing, we will take the necessary action to
calculate the value of the POs and COs. We will then allocate the redemption proceeds to holders pro rata to their
present value.

February 2016

Page 113

EXE50115

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

(e) Where there is a partial redemption by drawing, we will:
determine the proportion of the issue that has been stripped in the Euroclear System
allocate the amount of drawn securities in the Euroclear System pro rata to the amounts of stripped securities
and securities of the issue that have not been stripped held in the Euroclear System
carry out a computerised lottery for stripped securities to determine to which Securities Clearance Accounts
and in what amounts POs and COs to be redeemed will be allocated.

5.3.2.6

Market claims

(a) Market claims can be processed in respect of a Custody Distribution when you have either:
instructed a transfer of securities cum-distribution which settles ex-distribution
received a distribution of securities which you purchased ex-distribution
The type of security on which there is a distribution and the type of Instruction used will determine whether we will
process a market claim and if we do, when we will do so.
The two procedures we use for market claims are the:
Domestic market claims
procedure
Other market claims procedure

Used for processing market claims on internal and external settlements only
Used for processing market claims on certain internal settlements against
payment

We do not process market claims for Bridge settlements.
(b) When you receive a distribution on securities, market claims are processed as follows:

Securities transferred cum-distribution

Securities purchased ex-distribution

and

and

ount

Such Accounts will be either Cash Accounts or Securities Clearance Accounts depending on the individual
circumstances.
(c) You cannot instruct to transfer securities cum-distribution which you purchased ex-distribution. If, despite this
prohibition, you do instruct to transfer securities cum-distribution after receiving them ex-distribution, the market claim
will not be processed in the Euroclear System unless it is processed automatically in the local market.
In the latter case, the market claim will (notwithstanding Section 5.3.2.6.1.1) be processed in accordance with (b) above.
(d) A market claim credit to your Cash Account or Securities Clearance Account is subject to:

Account
for external settlement, a payment or delivery of securities from your counterparty.
(e) Market claim credits can be processed before the related debit to, or payment or delivery by your counterparty. In
such cases, the market claim credit is provisional.

February 2016

Page 114

EXE50116

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(f) Market claim debits may represent an extension of credit to you by us in our banking capacity.

5.3.2.6.1

Domestic market claims procedure

(a) Securities which are subject to the domestic market claims procedure are shown in the Online Market Guides under
the heading market claims. We will use specific reports to notify you of settlement Instructions that are expected to
result or have resulted in market claims. In addition, such reports will indicate which market claims we may process or
have already processed.
(b) We may notify you of market claims which will not be processed by reference to the type of Instruction or security.
(c) Market claims resulting from external settlement are made in accordance with local market practice and performed
by the Depository or Other Settlement System designated for the issue. Market claim credits and debits in the Euroclear
System that result from external settlement reflect the market claim payments or transfers by such Depositories or Other
Settlement Systems.
5.3.2.6.1.1

Withholding tax relief

(a) You are responsible for ensuring that withholding tax relief claims are cancelled or amended where necessary.
(b) If you have applied for full or partial relief of withholding tax at source in respect of a Custody Distribution which has
already been debited from your Account(s) following the processing of a market claim, we may ask you to amend or
confirm the tax relief claim previously introduced. If we do not receive your amendment or confirmation by a specified
Input Deadline, we may cancel the tax relief claim and apply withholding tax at the maximum rate.
(c) If you transfer securities cum-distribution that you purchased ex-distribution, then you must (notwithstanding Section
5.3.2.6.1.1(e)) inform the recipient that the resulting market claim does not constitute a dividend for tax purposes.
When you receive securities cum-distribution you must ensure that the distribution represents a dividend for tax
purposes. If it does not, we can apply the procedure set out below in (e).
(d) If, in connection with the credit of a market claim, we are required to make a withholding or deduction for or on
account of taxes, duties, fines, penalties or damages, we will credit the market claim net of such amounts to your
Account.
(e) If we are required to make a payment in connection with a market claim, you indemnify and hold us harmless for any
associated taxes, duties, fines, penalties or damages. We are authorised to immediately debit your Cash Account for
such amounts.
5.3.2.6.1.2

Processing of market claims

(a) We only process market claims once we have confirmation, which in our sole discretion we deem satisfactory, that
the Custody Distribution has been processed in the local market.
(b) If a market claim is processed automatically in the local market without regard to whether sufficient securities or cash
is available to process the market claim, our processing may require us to debit, or create a debit position in, your
Account. If a shortfall is created, Section 15(c) of the Terms and Conditions will be applicable.
(c) If the processing of a market claim requires a debit or blocking of cash or securities, we can debit or block your
Account for such amounts at a time we deem fit.
5.3.2.6.1.3

Custody Distributions

(a) These rules apply for both Cash Distributions and Non-cash Distributions except where stated otherwise.

February 2016

Page 115

EXE50117

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(b) For a market claim resulting from an internal or external settlement we will create and submit the necessary
Instructions on your behalf as described in the relevant country section of the Online Market Guides in the first available
Processing.
The expected date of the credit or debit in the local market described in the market claims section of the Online Market
Guides is only an indication of the date we expect to be able to make the credit/debit. We do not guarantee that the
credit or debit will be made at such date.
(c) Credits of securities to your Securities Clearance Account remain provisional until the related debit to the account of
the counterparty or delivery by the counterparty is final.
Credits of cash to your Cash Account remain provisional until related debits to the account of the counterparty or
payment by the counterparty is final.
(d) In addition, the following rules apply for Non-cash Distributions only:
if you are a party to a market claim you must have sufficient available securities in your Securities Clearance
Account to avoid a debit position
local market practice may mean that Non-cash Distributions can be compensated in securities or cash
depending on when the relevant Instruction settles in the local market. We process such claims in accordance
with local market practice.

5.3.2.6.2

Other market claims procedure

(a) All securities not subject to the domestic market claims procedure will be subject to the following procedure.
We will not (save in exceptional circumstances) process market claims for international securities and domestic bonds
which:
are subject to a varying rate of withholding tax at source depending on the recipient status
have an option as to currency of payment
are domestic bonds indicated as not subject to compensation in the Online Market Guides under the heading
have a date on which the interest rate is fixed on or after the Record Date (provided that we know this date)
are in default.
(b) All transactions executed after the Record Date are deemed to be ex-coupon.
(c) Processing will include market claims for internal settlement Instructions against payment executed after the Record
Date, if the Settlement Date of the matched Instructions is before the last day of the interest period.
(d) All credits and debits in respect of market claims are made to you upon our receipt and reconciliation of the
securities or cash.
Credits and debits of cash to Cash Accounts for the other market claims procedure remain provisional until our receipt
of the interest payment is final.
(e) A message is produced on the Statement of Transactions indicating we do not process the market claim for
securities transactions which:
settled after the Record Date
have a Settlement Date indicated by the seller before the last day of the interest period for which no market
claim is effected.

February 2016

Page 116

EXE50118

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(f) For an internal settlement against payment Instruction, debits and credits to Cash Accounts are made once the
processing of underlying Instructions is completed.
If settlement takes place:
on or after the interest Payment Date, the entry is valued the Settlement Date
before the interest Payment Date, the entry is valued such interest Payment Date.

5.3.2.7

Voting

(a) We provide a voting service for equities and funds which are eligible for this service (qualifying equities and
- Equities
affected by:
local regulations
local market practice
the rules of the relevant company.
We are not responsible for your inability to exercise voting rights on securities held in the Euroclear System.
(b) We may allow you to use a Custody Operation Instruction to exercise voting rights for securities which are not
qualifying equities or qualifying funds, such as bonds. We can:
accept your Instructions to block securities standing to the credit of your Securities Clearance Account
execute or make arrangements for the execution of proxies, powers-of-attorney, entry cards or other
certificates for delivery to the issuer or its agent
require our nominee, the Specialised Depository, its nominee or any other person we designate to vote for
securities held in the Euroclear System.
(c) All requests we complete upon your demand for this service are at your full and sole risk. We reserve the right not to
take any action in connection with the voting of securities.
We have no discretion to exercise any voting rights in respect of securities held in the Euroclear System. In the
absence of any Instruction from you, we will not process voting Instructions for a specific voting action.
(d) As we make no investigation and assume you have obtained the necessary authorisation, you must ensure that:
your voting Instructions reflect those given to you by any beneficial owner
you are properly authorised by such beneficial owner
all documents required from such beneficial owner have been authorised and executed.
(e) We accept no liability for being unable to cast your votes in accordance with your Instructions due to any holding,
registration, voting or any other restriction.
(f) In some countries it is customary for custodians to vote in favour of management in the absence of the receipt of
timely Instructions to the contrary. We accept no liability with respect to voting rights exercised in line with such local
market practice.
(g) A Custody Operation Instruction submitted by you for a voting action authorises us to disclose your name, residency
and the amount of securities of the relevant issue which you hold if requested by either:
the issuer or its agent
any court or other governmental agency
a body of competent jurisdiction.

February 2016

Page 117

EXE50119

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.3.2.7.1

Processing of Instructions to vote

(a) We make arrangements for voting of securities in accordance with your Instructions as set out in this section. We
may use third party providers to facilitate this service. Our duties and liabilities with respect to such third parties are
specified in Section 12 of the Terms and Conditions.
(b) The general voting procedures for qualifying equities and qualifying funds held in the Euroclear System at annual
and extraordinary general meetings are shown below. Special additional procedures for certain qualifying equities are
shown in the Online Market Guides.
(c) Once we receive your Custody Operation Instruction to vote and any required proxy voting form, duly completed and
executed before the appropriate Input Deadline, we will act as shown below:
Type of Instruction

Our actions

Instruction is for voting through the Euroclear System

We will take all necessary actions to effect your vote in
accordance with your Instructions. This may include:
- sending a postal vote
- appointing a proxy to vote
- requesting the Specialised Depository or any other
person to appoint a proxy for such purpose

Instruction is for voting other than through the Euroclear
System

We will execute or arrange the execution of:
- proxies
- powers-of-attorney
- entry cards
- other similar certificates
for delivery as shown in the Instruction

(d) For some markets and depending on the event specifics, we can block the securities for which actions shown in (c)
are taken. The blocking period varies depending on factors such as, but not limited to, the market, the agent and/or the
event.
(e) Provided your securities are blocked, if a meeting is adjourned, we will, in the absence of contrary Instructions from
you:
take actions required to effect your voting Instructions
continue blocking the securities until the date necessary to confer voting rights at the adjourned meeting.
If your securities are unblocked at the time we process the adjourned meeting advice, you may be required to send new
voting Instructions.
(f)
cause Instructions to be rejected. This will depend on the action type and requirements. We may however pass on
information contained in this field to the relevant agent or a Depository in the form input by you without verifying it
ourselves.

5.3.2.7.2

Non-Deposit Accounts

In some markets we may deliver securities on your behalf, and upon your Instruction, outside of the Euroclear System
for voting purposes. In such cases we will record the total positions held outside the Euroclear System on a NonDeposit Account. We will normally re-credit this position the Business Day after the meeting date.

February 2016

Page 118

EXE50120

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.3.2.8

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Certification under applicable U.S. law

(a) For securities you hold, where the governing documentation or applicable U.S. law requires the delivery of
certifications, you must send us a Custody Operation Instruction which provides for an electronic certification

The Certification Instruction provides confirmation from you that the beneficial owner(s) of such securities meet the
beneficial ownership requirements under U.S. law as set out in the terms and conditions of the securities. The
Certification Instruction may be based solely on certifications you have received.
We do not monitor or enforce transfer restrictions for securities you hold in the Euroclear System where the governing
documentation or applicable U.S. law requires the delivery of certifications
-Form

(b) A mo

procedures. Certain clauses may not apply for a particular Certification Event. The only clauses which apply in a
Certification Instruction you send are those which relate directly to and are applicable to the specific Certification Event.
If the proposed form of any certification required for an issue substantively differs from the model form, we must be
advised in writing by the lead manager or issuing agent, as appropriate, when we are first notified of the issue. Without
such notice, the Standard Long-Form Certification will be used.
A Certification Instruction only incorporates the Standard Long-Form Certification. Failure to follow such form will result
in your inability to use automated Certification Instructions.
(c) The certification date for securities in the Euroclear System is the date shown in the relevant DACE notice for the
Certification Event. If you receive securities into the Euroclear System after such date, you will be deemed to have
confirmed the required certification previously. This date is usually the last day of the period of offering restrictions,
except when the first interest payment date for such securities is before such date.
Depending on the issue of securities, the certification required for such interest payment may be the only certification
required. Some issues may require further certifications such as, but not limited to, for interest payments during the life
of the issue and/or if temporary global securities are exchanged for permanent or definitive securities. In the latter case,
there may be multiple certification dates for the same issuance.
(d) For some Certification Events you may be required to send other documents or Instructions. This will be shown in
the governing documentation of the issue.
(e) We will send you notice of any Certification Event of which we have advance notice from the terms and conditions of
the issue. You must send us separate Certification Instructions for each Securities Clearance Account which holds
securities of the issue subject to the Certification Event.
For the purposes of such Certification Instruction, your name or Securities Clearance Account number will be deemed to
be the equivalent of a manual signature.
(f) You are responsible for the completeness, truth and accuracy of all information contained in a Certification Instruction
once it is delivered to us. Statements made in the Standard Long-Form Certification are incorporated by reference into
your Certification Instruction.
(g) If you do not provide the appropriate form of certification or your Certification Instruction indicates that your securities
position (or a portion) remains uncertified, then we will block or flag such securities as uncertified. This blocking or
flagging will only be lifted:
upon receipt of the required certification
or, if such certification is not possible, upon receipt of consent from the issuer or its agent and an appropriate
indemnity letter from you and from any transferee.

February 2016

Page 119

EXE50121

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Uncertified holdings are blocked or flagged to denote that, after the relevant exchange date, such holdings reflect rights
in a temporary form security rather than rights in a permanent form security or definitive securities.
(h) Pursuant to the governing documentation and/or applicable U.S. law, an exercise of rights including, without
limitation:
exchange and delivery of definitive securities
receipt of payment of interest or principal
exercise of warrants
conversion of securities
may not be effected until you have delivered the Certification Instruction required with respect to such Certification
Event.
Certain warrants, conversion, subscription or other rights may terminate unless a Certification Instruction and any other
required information is received by the date set forth in the governing documentation of the issue.
(i) The date and value of the credit to your Cash Account depends on when we receive the cash. If cash is received no
later than the receipt of the Certification Instruction, we will credit your Cash Account as soon as possible after receipt of
the Certification Instruction with Value Date the Business Day on which the Certification Instruction is received. This is
provided the Certification Instruction is received on such Business Day by 18:30.
If cash is received after the receipt of any certification, you receive the same Value Date as we do.
(j) You irrevocably constitute and appoint us as your true and lawful agent and attorney-in fact for making, executing,
dating and delivering a Standard Long-Form Certification (or other required forms) relating to the Certification Event.
(k) Upon our request you must either:
execute a Standard Long-Form Certification or an issuer defined non-standard certification as required by the
relevant governing documentation for any Certification Instruction you send to us
ratify and confirm any Certification Instruction or Standard Long-Form Certification we execute on your behalf
or on behalf of the relevant beneficial owner(s).
(l) You irrevocably authorise the production of:
these Operating Procedures
any certification or record we retain based on a Certification Instruction
any Standard Long-Form Certification
any other document you deliver to us in accordance with this section
a copy or copies of the documents listed above
to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceeding or official inquiry with respect to matters covered by this
section or any such Instruction.

5.3.2.9

Other forms of certification

We will inform you via DACE notice of other forms of certification required for securities you hold. We may block your
securities position subject to certification until such certification is received by us.

February 2016

Page 120

EXE50122

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.3.2.10

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Global securities

(a) When a security is represented by a single global certificate, the custody of such certificate will be entrusted to a
Common Depository or Common Safekeeper.
When the Common Depository or Common Safekeeper acts in this capacity, they:
are not an exchange agent or registrar and hold global securities for us and Clearstream only
have no knowledge of the interests of Participants in the Euroclear System or beneficial owners
will not sign any certification as to interests in a global security without Instruction from us or Clearstream
cannot accept any certification or confirmation as to ownership or any other matter for any purpose relating to
interests in a global security.
(b) If the global security is in registered form, it must be registered in the name of a nominee company of the Common
Depository or Common Safekeeper.
(c) After receiving the global security at the closing, the Common Depository or Common Safekeeper is only responsible
for holding the global security for us and Clearstream.
(d)
the exchange of the temporary global security for definitive securities in the form of individual certificates or a
permanent global security
the cancellation or surrender of the global security
any other operations concerning the global security.
(e) The Common Depository, Common Service Provider or Common Safekeeper are contractually bound to follow our
ns as regards the disposition of global securities. They have no obligation to any other party
regarding such disposition.

5.3.2.10.1

Exchange for definitive individual or global certificates

Exchanging temporary global certificates for definitive securities occurs as agreed with the issuer. This includes any
relevant mandatory requirements such as the provision of certifications of beneficial ownership as set forth in Section
5.3.2.8.

5.3.2.10.2

Exercises of warrants or other options

(a) In order to exercise warrants or other options you must:
discuss forms with us before the closing at the time acceptance of the security is requested from us
provide us with Instructions for exercises of warrants and other options through the Euroclear System. This
includes the collection of any certification from holders and the provision of any certifications to the fiscal agent
or other party.
(b) We are responsible for instructing our Depository to make global securities available for endorsement to reflect the
exercise of options through the Euroclear System.
(c) Documentation must not require the Depository to endorse or mark global securities in its capacity as such.

5.3.2.11

Safekeeping and related services for fractional amounts of funds securities

(a) We can accept fractional nominal amounts of securities issued by international or domestic investment fund
companies for deposit in the Euroclear System as described in this section.

February 2016

Page 121

EXE50123

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(b) We will record fractional amounts of fund securities in a special purpose database. This database is a part and a
subdivision of the Securities Clearance Account which holds the whole numbers of securities of such issue. Records of
fractional amounts will usually include up to 4 decimal figures.
(c) Acceptance of fractional amounts of fund securities for deposit in the Euroclear System and any subsequent transfer
is subject to our prior approval on a case by case basis. You must notify us in advance of the transfer of fractional
amounts of fund securities. If we allow such transfer, you must send us specific settlement Instructions which we will
inform you of. Internal, Bridge or external settlement Instructions which do not include such specific requirements will
not be accepted for fractional amounts of fund securities.
(d) We will not accept voting or subscription Instructions in respect of fractional amounts of fund securities other than
voting or subscription Instructions.
(e) On a case by case basis, and subject to our prior approval, we can accept Custody Operation Instructions in respect
of fractional amounts of fund securities for Corporate Actions. If you wish to send Custody Operation Instructions in
respect of fractional amounts of fund securities you must contact us for the details on the specific Instruction
requirements.
(f) If the proceeds of a Custody Non-cash Distribution result in fractional amounts of fund securities in circumstances
such as, but not limited to, cases where a sale is required by law or regulation or subject to penalties, we may require
the fund company (or its agent) to credit a cash equivalent or organise for a third party to try and sell the fractional
amount and then credit you with the net sale proceeds.
We do not guarantee that a sale will be made nor do we guarantee the terms and conditions (including price) of a sale.
(g) Standard reporting on your balances and Instructions does not include decimal fractions of securities.
(h) We can stop any or all of the services described in this section at any time without prior notice.

5.3.2.12

Transformations

(a) Transformations in cash can be processed in respect of certain Corporate Actions, for transactions in equities or in
debt securities.
Whether transformations are applicable depends on the relevant market and the type of Corporate Action. The details of
the process are set out in the relevant country section of the Online Market Guides.
Where applicable, we detect and generate transformations on all external transactions that are matched and unsettled
on the reference date. The reference date is the date used to identify the need for a transformation. It can be different
per event type.
We neither detect nor process transformations on internal and Bridge settlements.
If you
transformation process. If both parties opt out, the settlement Instruction is cancelled rather than transformed.
(b) Upon confirmation from the local market, we process transformations in two steps:
we cancel the underlying settlement Instruction
we generate new settlement Instructions, as well as the cash transformation movements as applicable.
If the underlying settlement Instruction was against payment, we generate two new money transfer Instructions:
for the original settlement amount
for the proceeds of the Corporate Action.

February 2016

Page 122

EXE50124

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

If the underlying settlement Instruction was free of payment, we only generate an Instruction for the proceeds of the
Corporate Action.
(c) To ensure that the new Instructions will be executed, we will block cash on your Account on the reference date of the
Corporate Action (in accordance with Section 3.3). If the new Instruction is executed successfully, this blocking will be
lifted.

February 2016

Page 123

EXE50125

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

February 2016

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Page 124

EXE50126

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

Part V: Section 4
5.4.1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Money Transfer

Acceptance of currencies ................................................................................................ 127

5.4.1.1

5.4.2

Eligibility criteria .................................................................................................................................... 127

Money transfer services ................................................................................................... 127

5.4.2.1

Cash Correspondents ........................................................................................................................... 127

5.4.2.2

Receipt of funds .................................................................................................................................... 127

5.4.2.2.1

Identification of Accounts to be credited ........................................................................................... 128

5.4.2.2.2

Credit of funds received by a Cash Correspondent .......................................................................... 128

5.4.2.3

Money transfer Instruction types ........................................................................................................... 128

5.4.2.4

Conditions for the execution of money transfer Instructions .................................................................. 129

5.4.2.4.1

Input of Instructions .......................................................................................................................... 129

5.4.2.4.2

Deadlines ......................................................................................................................................... 129

5.4.2.4.3

Impact of holidays and weekends..................................................................................................... 130

5.4.2.4.4

Validation ......................................................................................................................................... 130

5.4.2.4.5

Selection for the Real-time Processing............................................................................................. 130

5.4.2.4.6

Positioning........................................................................................................................................ 131

5.4.2.5

Successful positioning and execution of money transfer operations

Value Date ................................ 131

5.4.2.5.1

General ............................................................................................................................................ 131

5.4.2.5.2

Book transfer .................................................................................................................................... 131

5.4.2.5.3

Wire transfer..................................................................................................................................... 131

5.4.2.5.4

Receipt of funds by a Cash Correspondent ...................................................................................... 131

5.4.2.5.5

Foreign exchange conversion........................................................................................................... 133

5.4.2.5.6

Foreign exchange direct dealing conversion..................................................................................... 133

5.4.2.6

Unsuccessful positioning and recycling................................................................................................. 133

5.4.2.7

Cancellation of money transfer Instructions........................................................................................... 134

5.4.2.7.1

Cancellation by us ............................................................................................................................ 134

5.4.2.7.2

Cancellation by you .......................................................................................................................... 134

5.4.2.8

February 2016

Credits and debits ................................................................................................................................. 134

Page 125

EXE50127

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

February 2016

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Page 126

EXE50128

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.4.1

Acceptance of currencies

5.4.1.1

Eligibility criteria

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(a) Without prejudice to Section 16(d) of the Terms and Conditions, we may:
accept any currency as a Settlement Currency
determine the use of a Settlement Currency within the Euroclear System.
(b)
Currencies can be identified by
(c) We reserve the right in our sole discretion and without notice:
not to accept a currency as a Settlement Currency within the Euroclear System
to withdraw acceptance of any Settlement Currency previously accepted
to refuse any deposit into the Euroclear System of a Settlement Currency regardless of any deposit of other
cash in the same Settlement Currency, or to deliver out of the Euroclear System to any Participant holding
such cash in the Euroclear System, if we determine that acceptance of any deposit in such Settlement
Currency would not be in the best interests of Participants generally or of the Euroclear System.

5.4.2

Money transfer services

(a) The money transfer services that we offer include:
the receipt of funds into the Euroclear System, whether preadvised or not
the transfer of funds between Accounts in the Euroclear System and to accounts outside the Euroclear
System
foreign exchange conversions
foreign exchange direct dealing.
(b) Money transfer services are offered in respect of all Settlement Currencies.

5.4.2.1

Cash Correspondents

(a) Transfers of funds into and out of the Euroclear System are effected through designated Cash Correspondents.
Details of such Cash Correspondents, including Bank Identifier Codes (BIC) and Euroclear Bank account numbers for

(b) We may, in our sole discretion, appoint or disable a Cash Correspondent upon notice to you. We will provide you
with notice and deem receipt of such notice in accordance with Part IV (Connectivity) of these Operating Procedures.
You should take immediate action to adapt to a disablement as we do not deem payments, made though a disabled
Cash Correspondent, to have been received by us.

5.4.2.2

Receipt of funds

(a) Either you or another party (whether a Participant or not) can send us funds to credit to your Cash Account in any
Settlement Currency. You must ensure that all such payments are made directly to the designated Cash Correspondent
for the Settlement Currency.
(b) We do not accept cheques for payment into the Euroclear System. We will try to return any cheques you send to us
but accept no liability for loss, delay or our failure to do so.

February 2016

Page 127

EXE50129

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.4.2.2.1

Identification of Accounts to be credited

We will only credit funds to a Cash Account if we can identify such Account. In order for a Cash Correspondent to
ce submitted
by the remitter to the Cash Correspondent states:
- Euroclear Operations Centre,
BIC: MGTC BEBE ECL account number ...*..'
in favour of Participant (BIC or name and location) - Participant Account Num
*Account numbers and descriptions of fields to be filled/used are shown in the Online Market Guides and the
SWIFT/EUCLID data reference manuals (available on our website).
A failure to follow the above template may result in the delay of credit to your Cash Account.

5.4.2.2.2

Credit of funds received by a Cash Correspondent

(a) The timing of the credit of funds to your Cash Account is determined according to the time we receive credit
confirmation from the relevant Cash Correspondent (see table below).

During the RTP

On the day of receipt*

After the RTP

In the RTP dated the next Business Day*

* This is provided the credit confirmation contains all necessary information.
(b) The funds we receive in respect of credit confirmations from Cash Correspondents are initially credited with the
Value Date provided by the Cash Correspondent. We may adjust the Value Date depending on whether the funds have
been preadvised or not (see Section 5.4.2.5.4).

5.4.2.3

Money transfer Instruction types

Instruction Type

Description

Book transfer

A transfer of funds between two Cash Accounts, effected
by the simultaneous debit and credit of a Settlement
Currency from one Account to the other

Wire transfer

A payment out of the Euroclear System, effected by the
debit of a Cash Account and payment to an account
outside the Euroclear System as specified in the money
transfer Instruction

Preadvice of funds

An advice to us by or on your behalf that funds from
outside the Euroclear System will be deposited at the
appropriate Cash Correspondent for credit to a Cash
Account in the Euroclear System
The conversion of one Settlement Currency to another at
a determined rate (see Section 2.8) effected by the
simultaneous debit and credit of subdivisions of your
Cash Account. You can specify either the amount to be
converted or the amount of proceeds of such conversion

Foreign exchange

You can register for automatic conversion for income
proceeds (see Section 5.3.2.1.6)

February 2016

Page 128

EXE50130

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

Foreign exchange direct dealing

This is a foreign exchange whereby you contact us
directly by telephone or Reuters. The service is only
available if you have a credit facility with us and approval
from our Credit Department
Once the exchange has been performed, we will send
you a confirmation including the terms of the transaction
The following additional rules apply:
- we have the right to refuse any transaction
- minimum and maximum transaction amounts are
specified in the Euroclear Documentation but we can
grant exceptions on a case by case and exceptional
basis
- only Settlement Currencies which carry no restrictions
regarding their conversion are accepted for dealing
- we charge costs we incur due to cancellation or failure
of an Instruction to you
- we accept transactions on Business Days during the
times shown in the Euroclear Documentation
- for some Settlement Currencies specific rules may
apply. These can be found in the money transfer section
on our website
- we can discontinue this service at any time without
notice

5.4.2.4

Conditions for the execution of money transfer Instructions

5.4.2.4.1

Input of Instructions

We only process valid Instructions for this service as set out in this Section 5.4.2.4 and Part IV (Connectivity) of these
Operating Procedures.

5.4.2.4.2

Deadlines

(a)
and can vary. Variance can be caused by:

(available on our website)

the communication tool you use to input the Instruction
whe
intervention.
Instructions received after the Input Deadline will be treated as being received the following Business Day.
(b) Settlement Currencies are
available on our website) under various
categories (Groups A, C and D). This is to reflect the different Input Deadlines for receipt of money transfer Instructions
and the Value Date applied when executing such Instructions.

February 2016

Page 129

EXE50131

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.4.2.4.3

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Impact of holidays and weekends

(a) Money transfer Instructions (book transfer, wire transfer, foreign exchange, foreign exchange direct dealing) and
credit confirmations which have a requested Value Date of any non-Business Day will be executed for Value Date the
next Business Day unless sent by EUCLID in which case they are invalidated.
Preadvices of funds which have a requested Value Date of any non-Business Day are considered as invalid.
(b) Instructions with a requested Value Date which is a holiday in the city of the relevant Cash Correspondent are
processed for Value Date the next business day in such city. An exception to this rule are book transfer Instructions that
are accepted and processed for any Business Day regardless of whether the day is a business day in the country of the
Settlement Currency or not.

5.4.2.4.4

Validation

(a) After authentication of input, money transfer Instructions must be validated before further processing can take place.
The general rules for validation are described in Section 4.1.4.3.
(b) Money transfer Instructions which are sent by SWIFT or EUCLID are subject to additional manual validation. As
such these Instructions can pass the required computer validation but be rejected or cancelled after manual validation.
(c) If validation is successful, the money transfer Instruction is accepted for further processing.
If validation is unsuccessful due to an incorrect format or incomplete/incorrect contents we may try to repair the
Instruction.
Instructions that failed the validation process can be repaired by us with no additional input from you, provided that the
incorrectly formatted item of information is available to us. If such information is missing, we cannot repair the
Instruction and may notify you and request that such information is subsequently made available to us. We can then
amend your Instructions using such additional information.
If we do not receive such information in the required form via authenticated message within 5 Business Days of our
request, we will cancel the Instruction (except for preadvice of funds which we will cancel on the Business Day following
our request).
(d) For the purposes of (c) above, the Instructions are deemed to be received by us once we have repaired them.
(e) We can reject Instructions where we believe that the information you input into a field demonstrates your intent to
carry out a different Instruction type. In such instance we will reject the Instruction and input what we deem to be a
correct money transfer Instruction type.
(f) We accept no liability in respect of any Instructions we repair or replace on your behalf.
(g) If validation of a money transfer Instruction is unsuccessful and we cannot repair the Instruction due to such
Instruction being unclear or we cannot identify the Instruction type, we will automatically cancel it and notify you of such
cancellation.

5.4.2.4.5

Selection for the Real-time Processing

(a) A valid money transfer Instruction is put into the backlog of unexecuted Instructions until submission to the RTP
dated its Execution Date. This is depending on the type of money transfer Instruction and the requested Value Date as
shown in Section 5.4.2.5.
(b) Valid money transfer Instructions are only eligible for the RTP.

February 2016

Page 130

EXE50132

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

(c) Valid wire transfer Instructions are selected for the RTP as determined by us taking into account:
the nature of the Instructions
any local market constraints
other relevant circumstances.

5.4.2.4.6

Positioning

(a) Once a money transfer Instruction has been selected for the RTP, Instructions are sequenced in accordance with
Section 5.2.1 (Processing rules). Positioning is successful if the following conditions are met:
Cash positioning
o
If the execution of a money transfer Instruction necessitates a payment then you require sufficient
cash available or receipt of a credit line from us, as determined by us in our banking capacity, of the
relevant Settlement Currency in your Cash Account for the payment
Collateral positioning
o
You require sufficient collateral if you are to be debited with cash and are granted secured credit that
we may make available to you in our banking capacity.
(b) Availability of cash may be affected notably as described in Section 3.3.1 or Section 5.3.1.5.3(c), or due to specific
restrictions which may apply to certain Settlement Currencies or certain local markets. These can be found in the
relevant market sections of the Online Market Guides

5.4.2.5

Successful positioning and execution of money transfer operations
Date

5.4.2.5.1

General

Value

We will not execute money transfer Instructions with a Value Date earlier than the Input Deadline of the Instruction.

5.4.2.5.2

Book transfer

Book transfer Instructions are executed in the RTP for the date indicated in such Instruction provided this is a Business
Day. If not, execution takes place the next Business Day, Value Date the Execution Date.

5.4.2.5.3

Wire transfer

(a) Wire transfer Instructions are executed on the date shown below in relation to the Value Date indicated in the
Instruction provided this is a Business Day. If not, execution takes place the next Business Day.
(b) Funds are debited from your Cash Account in the RTP dated the Execution Date (and valued in relation to the
Execution Date) as follows:
Currency Group

Date of debit

Group A currencies

at the latest on the Value Date

Group C currencies

at the latest on the Business Day before the Value Date

Group D currencies

at the latest 2 Business Days before the Value Date

(c) As soon as we have acted on a wire transfer Instruction and cannot revoke or reverse such action your rights to the
related funds are reduced accordingly even if the corresponding debit to the Cash Account has not been effected.

5.4.2.5.4

February 2016

Receipt of funds by a Cash Correspondent

Page 131

EXE50133

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.4.2.5.4.1

Preadvice of funds

(a) You must ensure that all funds to be remitted for the credit of your Cash Account(s) are preadvised according to the
rules described below. Where there is more than one Cash Correspondent for a Settlement Currency, you must indicate
to us the Cash Correspondent to whom the cash will be sent in the preadvice you send to us.
(b) Once we receive a credit confirmation from our Cash Correspondent of the receipt of preadvised funds we will, in the
RTP on the Execution Date, credit your Cash Account with the required amount with the Value Date provided by the
Cash Correspondent.
The report of preadvices of funds
the Instruction and does not constitute a credit to your Cash Account for any reported amount.
5.4.2.5.4.2

Funds not preadvised or incorrectly preadvised

(a) A Value Date adjustment will be made to a credit of funds if such credit has either:
been received after the currency deadline and not preadvised
been credited to another Cash Account than the one which can be derived from the preadvice
been in excess of the amount preadvised
been preadvised after the relevant deadline as shown in the Euroclear Documentation.
The adjustment will be made giving the following values:
Currency Group

Value Date

Group A currencies

the next Business Day

Group C currencies

2 Business Days later

Group D currencies

3 Business Days later

(b) If, having received your preadvice, an additional and/or unexpected credit confirmation (different to the one
preadvised) is received for your Cash Account, this credit confirmation will consume a corresponding amount of the
received preadvice.
Further credit confirmations (including the one for which the preadvice was originally received) will only receive good
value up to the amount left of the preadvice following the earlier credit confirmation. Excess amounts will be value
adjusted in accordance with (c) below.
(c) In the case of a Value Date adjustment we reserve the right to debit a Cash Account for an amount we calculate:
by applying the debit interest rate for the relevant Settlement Currency for the period between the credit of the
funds and the adjusted Value Date
to compensate for losses associated with such failure to preadvise correctly.
We will apply whichever amount is higher.
(d) Funds which are preadvised but not received are subject to a penalty supplemental fee.
(e) If you hold funds, or funded your Cash Account, in a Settlement Currency with us then you bear the risk of default of
the Cash Correspondent to which the funds have been remitted to the extent that either:
funds credited have not been preadvised or have been incorrectly preadvised by you
funds credited are in excess of the amount you preadvised
the preadvice of funds has been received after the relevant Input Deadline as included in the Euroclear
Documentation.

February 2016

Page 132

EXE50134

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

In such situations, if the Cash Correspondent is unable to return funds we hold with them due to the Cash
Correspondent's bankruptcy, insolvency proceedings or similar situations, we are not obliged to return to you an amount
corresponding to the funds you hold with us in that Settlement Currency, or for which you funded your Cash Account.

5.4.2.5.5

Foreign exchange conversion

(a) A foreign exchange Instruction is executed in the RTP dated the second Business Day before the Value Date in the
Instruction. This is provided that it is a business day in the countries of both currencies and if not, the next Business Day
that is.
(b) On the Execution Date of the Instruction, proceeds from a foreign exchange conversion are credited to your Cash
Account from which the currency to be converted was debited.
(c) If the proceeds are to be paid or transferred to another Account or bank you must submit a separate book transfer or
wire transfer Instruction.
(d) The Value Date is the second calendar day after the Execution Date provided it is a business day in the countries of
both currencies.
(e) Specific rules may apply to certain currencies. These can be found in the relevant market sections of the Online
Market Guides and other Euroclear Documentation.

5.4.2.5.6

Foreign exchange direct dealing conversion

(a) A foreign exchange direct dealing Instruction is executed in the RTP dated the second Business Day before the
Value Date in the Instruction. This is provided that it is a business day in the countries of both currencies and if not, the
next Business Day that is.
You can request short dated forward transactions up to 3 Business Days in advance. Same day or next day
transactions can be provided if technically feasible.
(b) On the Execution Date of the Instruction, proceeds from the execution of the conversion are credited to your Cash
Account from which the currency to be converted was debited.
(c) We will not authorise third party payments resulting from foreign exchange direct dealing transactions. All cash
payments will be cleared via your Cash Account(s).
(d) The Value Date is the second calendar day after the Execution Date provided it is a business day in the countries of
both currencies.
(e) Specific rules may apply to certain Settlement Currencies. These can be found throughout in the relevant market
sections of the Online Market Guides and other Euroclear Documentation.

5.4.2.6

Unsuccessful positioning and recycling

(a) If positioning is unsuccessful then the Instruction remains unexecuted in the backlog of unexecuted Instructions.
Such Instruction will be re-entered into subsequent RTPs for 5 Business Days until executed or cancelled. If after 5
Business Days the Instruction is yet to be successfully positioned it will be refused.
(b) For foreign exchange Instructions, the 5 Business Days on which positioning is re-attempted following the initial
unsuccessful positioning must also be business days in the countries of both currencies.

February 2016

Page 133

EXE50135

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.4.2.7

Cancellation of money transfer Instructions

5.4.2.7.1

Cancellation by us

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

We will cancel any Instruction that remains unexecuted after 5 Business Days (see Section 5.4.2.6).

5.4.2.7.2

Cancellation by you

(a) You can cancel valid Instructions which we have received but not executed provided that the cancellation request is
Instructions.
(b) Cancellation will take place as soon as we have validated your cancellation request.
(c) If we cannot find the Instruction you wish to cancel among those due for execution, the cancellation request and any
associated replacement Instruction will lapse.

5.4.2.8

Credits and debits

Credits and debits are performed in the RTP dated the Execution Date of a money transfer Instruction. Such credits and
debits may be final or provisional as shown in Section 2.3. Section 3.2 sets forth the circumstances in which we can
reverse such credits and debits.

February 2016

Page 134

EXE50136

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Part V: Section 5 Securities Lending and
Borrowing Program
5.5.1

Securities Lending and Borrowing Program overview ................................................. 137

5.5.1.1

Introduction ........................................................................................................................................... 137

5.5.1.2

Securities Lending and Borrowing Processing ...................................................................................... 137

5.5.1.2.1

Securities Lending and Borrowing Processing runs.......................................................................... 137

5.5.1.2.2

Recording of Loans .......................................................................................................................... 138

5.5.1.2.3

Irrevocability ..................................................................................................................................... 138

5.5.1.3

Our role................................................................................................................................................. 138

5.5.1.4

Credit aspects ....................................................................................................................................... 139

5.5.1.5

SLB Eligible Securities .......................................................................................................................... 139

5.5.1.6

Borrowing limits..................................................................................................................................... 139

5.5.1.7

Reporting .............................................................................................................................................. 140

5.5.1.8

Resigning from the Securities Lending and Borrowing Program ........................................................... 140

5.5.2

Lending .............................................................................................................................. 140

5.5.2.1

Lender profile ........................................................................................................................................ 140

5.5.2.1.1

Monitoring level ................................................................................................................................ 141

5.5.2.1.2

Pending Delivery Period ................................................................................................................... 141

5.5.2.2

Determining Lendable Positions............................................................................................................ 141

5.5.2.3

Allocation among Lenders..................................................................................................................... 142

5.5.3

Borrowing .......................................................................................................................... 142

5.5.3.1

Borrower profile..................................................................................................................................... 142

5.5.3.2

Identification of Borrowing needs .......................................................................................................... 143

5.5.3.3

Allocation of Borrowings........................................................................................................................ 144

5.5.3.4

Automatic reimbursement ..................................................................................................................... 144

5.5.4

Recalls................................................................................................................................ 145

5.5.4.1

Automatic detection............................................................................................................................... 145

5.5.4.2

Recall process ...................................................................................................................................... 145

5.5.4.3

Failure to return Loan Securities ........................................................................................................... 145

5.5.5

Corporate Actions ............................................................................................................. 146

5.5.6

The Euroclear Bank Guaranty.......................................................................................... 148

5.5.6.1

Purchase of replacement securities ...................................................................................................... 148

5.5.6.2

Cash compensation .............................................................................................................................. 148

5.5.6.3

Equivalent securities ............................................................................................................................. 149

5.5.7

Billing ................................................................................................................................. 149

5.5.7.1

5.5.8

Failed Return Fee and supplementary fee ............................................................................................ 149

Specific features ............................................................................................................... 150

5.5.8.1

Participating on an opportunity basis..................................................................................................... 150

5.5.8.1.1

Lending ............................................................................................................................................ 150

5.5.8.1.2

Borrowing ......................................................................................................................................... 150

5.5.8.2

Intra-family Borrowing ........................................................................................................................... 152

5.5.8.3

Dedicated services................................................................................................................................ 152

5.5.8.4

Recognition as a centralised lending system for Belgian withholding tax .............................................. 152

February 2016

Page 135

EXE50137

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

February 2016

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Page 136

EXE50138

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.5.1

Securities Lending and Borrowing Program overview

5.5.1.1

Introduction

(a)
Whenever a settlement failure i
automatically generates a Borrowing, provided that sufficient relevant securities are available in the lending pool.
Lenders can make securities held in their Securities Clearance Accounts available for lending on an automatic basis
and at any time. Their Lendable Position is automatically determined during each SLB Processing run and Loans are
allocated amongst Lenders according to set rules, preventing arbitrary selection.
(b) In order to participate in the SLB Program you must acknowledge receipt of and agree to the Supplementary Terms
and Conditions. The Supplementary Terms and Conditions are an integral part of the Terms and Conditions.
You must also:
inform us in writing as to whether you wish to become an Automatic Lender, Automatic Borrower, Opportunity
Lender and/or Opportunity Borrower
register your options for Lending and Borrowing
designate one or more of your Securities Clearance Accounts as being available for the Lending or Borrowing
of securities.
(c) We will notify you of your acceptance as an Automatic Lender, Automatic Borrower, Opportunity Lender and/or
Opportunity Borrower and of the date on which you may begin to participate in the SLB Program.
(d) Requests to borrow securities may be submitted by:
Automatic Borrowers who authorise us to identify their Borrowing needs and to arrange Borrowings to meet
such needs
Opportunity Borrowers who identify their own Borrowing needs and submit specific requests for us to arrange
Borrowings.
(e) Loan Securities to meet Borrowing requests are provided by:
Automatic Lenders who agree to make securities available for lending
Opportunity Lenders who may be called upon by us to make securities available for lending when needed to
supplement the supply of securities made available by Automatic Lenders.

5.5.1.2

Securities Lending and Borrowing Processing

5.5.1.2.1

Securities Lending and Borrowing Processing runs

(a) Loans and Borrowings may be generated and reimbursed as a result of each Securities Lending and Borrowing

Process

Timing

S

During the OSSP dated
S
50 minutes after the
opening of the RTP
During the RTP at
approximately 03:30

-time SLB

February 2016

-time

Comments

Page 137

EXE50139

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

-time

During the RTP at
approximately 07:15

-time

During the RTP at
approximately 14:00

Last opportunity to Borrow for same-day settlement

-time SLB

During the RTP at
approximately 17:00

Generates reimbursements of Borrowings for CBF eligible
securities with a Value Date of the same day

-time

During the RTP at
approximately 17:30

First chance to Borrow CBF eligible securities with a Value Date of
the next day
Generates reimbursements of Borrowings, except for:
- CBF eligible securities with a Value Date of the same day
- Borrowings of CBF eligible securities with a Value Date of the
next day

CBF eligible securities are those securities which are eligible within Clearstream Banking Frankfurt.
-time Securities Lending and
real-time SLB Process
-ofthey are the last opportunity for a Borrowing of a particular type of securities to be reimbursed.
(b)

(c) We only create a Borrowing for an issue of CBF eligible securities in the sixth real-time SLB Process and only
reimburse such Borrowing in the fifth real-time SLB Process.
(d) Although we endeavour to perform the SLB Processes as described above, we reserve the right to omit any SLB
Process or to perform the SLB Process at such time and include such data as we in our sole discretion determine.
(e) We do not guarantee the timing of the execution of the SLB Processes.

5.5.1.2.2

Recording of Loans

Record-keeping A
keeping Account is debited to reflect the Loan.

5.5.1.2.3

-

Irrevocability

Any Instruction you enter into the Euroclear System which requires a Loan cannot be cancelled as from the time stated
below:
Your participation
Automatic Lender

the time we determine your Lendable Position

Automatic Borrower

the time we determine your Borrowing need

5.5.1.3

Our role

(a)
ll act in our own name but on behalf of Borrowers (when borrowing
securities from Lenders) or in our own name but on behalf of Lenders (when lending securities to Borrowers) to arrange
Loans.
In addition, we act as a commissionaire ducroire (guarantor) to
should they fail to perform.
(b) Lenders are protected by the Euroclear Bank Guaranty as described in Section 14 of the Supplementary Terms and
Conditions.

February 2016

Page 138

EXE50140

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

Lenders

lending
agreement

borrowing
agreement

Borrowers

Collateral:

Guarantee covering:

Return securities or cash
Entitlements from issuers
Lending fees

Credit arrangements
Borrowing fees

Legal Status: Commisionaire Ducroire

5.5.1.4

Credit aspects

(a) At the time of each Borrowing, you must have a credit arrangement in place with us in our banking capacity and
have sufficient credit available under such arrangement in order to make such Borrowing.
(b) As a Lender, you will continue to benefit from the collateral value of Loan Securities for any credit arrangement you
have in place with us in our banking capacity. This will be for the duration of the Loan.

5.5.1.5

SLB Eligible Securities

(a)
or liquidity
constraints that preclude them from being used in the SLB Program. For more information, please consult the SLB
section of our website and the Online Market Guides.
We reserve the right at any time to make securities in the Euroclear System eligible for the SLB Program and/or to
withdraw or postpone the eligibility of securities already accepted for use in the SLB Program.
(b) Defaulted securities are not eligible in the SLB Program. If a security eligible for the SLB Program defaults, we will
ensure that no new Loans are created but we will not automatically recall outstanding Loans unless there is a
Requested Recall from the Lender. The standard recall process applies in such instance.

5.5.1.6

Borrowing limits

Certain discretionary limits apply to determine the percentage quantity of outstanding securities of an issue that:
you, individually, are allowed to borrow
Participants, as an aggregate, are allowed borrow.
Type of Borrowing
Individual Borrowings
Aggregate
Borrowings

Borrowing limit (as a percentage of the quantity of outstanding securities of any
issue)
10%
20%

We reserve the right at any time to change these limits for all SLB Eligible Securities, any group of securities or a
particular security.
We will determine the quantity of outstanding securities of an eligible issue on the basis of information obtained from
publicly available information sources.

February 2016

Page 139

EXE50141

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

We reserve the right to determine the total amount of Borrowings that will be generated in the sixth real-time SLB
Process.

5.5.1.7

Reporting

website.

5.5.1.8

Resigning from the Securities Lending and Borrowing Program

If you no longer wish to participate in the SLB Program in any capacity you must notify us in writing. The notification will
take effect in the Batch SLB Process dated the Business Day after such notification is received by 14:00.

5.5.2

Lending

5.5.2.1

Lender profile

(a) As an Automatic Lender, you agree to make available for lending all or part of the securities available for delivery
credited to the Securities Clearance Account you designate for Automatic Lending. This will take into account any
operational limitations you specify on securities available for lending.
(b) In such capacity, you authorise us to:
lend up to a maximum of your Lendable Position
take the necessary actions to generate the requested Loans
ensure the amount of outstanding Loans does not exceed your Lendable Position.
(c) You may, as an Automatic Lender, elect to limit the securities you wish to make available for lending in the SLB
notice. We automatically
take into account such limitations when calculating your Lendable Position for each SLB Process.
(d) You may:
specify when pending delivery Instructions and Custody Operation Instructions will reduce your Lendable
Position by modifying the Pending Delivery Period default value for your Securities Clearance Account
specify that only a certain percentage of your securities is available for lending. This can be done for all issues
or a particular issue. Any lendable percentage specified for an individual issue will be used regardless of any
lendable percentage specified for all issues
exclude certain categories of securities from lending (e.g. security type, denomination currency, issuer type)
include certain categories of securities for lending (as above) where they would otherwise be excluded by
defining exceptions
temporarily exclude availability of all securities in your Securities Clearance Account from the lending pool.
(e) We have no obligation to enter more than 20 amendments on your behalf on any Business Day. Changes become
effective in the Batch SLB Process dated the Business Day after we receive notice of such amendment by 14:00.
We can accept such notifications if sent via email provided that all required information is contained in such email in the
correct format. Information about the format we require is available upon request from the SLB operations team.

February 2016

Page 140

EXE50142

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.5.2.1.1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Monitoring level

(a) We will notify you if your Lending Level Monitored Amount is exceeded. You may then instruct us to:
increase the Lending Level Monitored Amount as appropriate
implement a Requested Recall of Loan Securities in order to bring the amount of Loan Securities below your
Lending Level Monitored Amount. We will recall outstanding Loans in a USD equivalent and issues of
securities which we, in our sole discretion, deem appropriate.
(b) We reserve the right to discontinue this Lending Level Monitored Amount procedure at any time.

5.5.2.1.2

Pending Delivery Period

(a)
Date of each Instruction.

ins a number of Business Days before the Settlement

For the following Corporate Actions, the Pending Delivery Period begins at the latest in the Batch SLB Process dated
the Execution Date of the Instruction:
40, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 62 and 63 (or their equivalent as set out in the SWIFT specifications).
(b) Your Lendable Position is reduced during the Pending Delivery Period by the total quantity of securities included in
such Instructions.
(c) In the absence of any election made by you, the default value for the Pending Delivery Period is set forth in the
relevant country section of the Online Market Guides

5.5.2.2

Determining Lendable Positions

(a) The calculation of the Lendable Position for each issue of securities available for lending in each of your Securities
Clearance Accounts is made by us.
(b) Your Lendable Position is determined as follows:

February 2016

Page 141

EXE50143

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.5.2.3

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Allocation among Lenders

(a) Loans are allocated among Automatic Lenders based on the quantity of securities credited to all Securities
Clearance Accounts made available for lending.
(b) We apply a fair allocation principle when allocating Loans among Lenders. As a Lender, you are assigned priority
based on the size of your global lendable portfolio and the holding you have of the security for which there is a
Borrowing need.
The thresholds of SLB Eligible Securities we use when allocating priorities are as follows:
Priority

Aggregate balance of securities of all issues for

First priority
Second priority
Third priority
Lowest priority

USD 50 million

Lendable position for the particular
USD 1,000,000

< USD 50 million

USD 1,000,000

USD 50 million

< USD 1,000,000

< USD 50 million

< USD 1,000,000

(c) Priority in the allocation process can vary from issue to issue and from time to time based on your Lendable Position
for each issue in each SLB Process.
(d) If you have the same priority as another Lender, Loans will be allocated on a pro rata basis based on the holdings of
the issue for which there is a Borrowing need.

5.5.3

Borrowing

5.5.3.1

Borrower profile

(a) As an Automatic Borrower, you participate in the Automatic Borrowing Program in which we will continuously
evaluate your Borrowing needs throughout each SLB Process for each of your Securities Clearance Accounts.
(b) You authorise us to fulfil your Borrowing needs and to take any necessary action to generate requested Borrowings.
(c) You may, as an Automatic Borrower, elect to limit the type of securities you wish to Borrow in the SLB Program. This
can be done by providing us with written notice. We automatically take into account such limitations when calculating
your Borrowing needs for each SLB Process.
(d) You may:
exclude certain categories of securities from your Borrowing (e.g. security type, denomination currency, issuer
type)
include certain categories of securities from your Borrowing (as above) where they would otherwise be
excluded by defining exceptions
temporarily exclude any Borrowing.
(e) We have no obligation to enter more than 20 amendments on your behalf on any Business Day. Changes become
effective in the Batch SLB Process dated the Business Day after we receive notice of such amendment by 14:00.
We can accept such notifications if sent via email provided that all required information is contained in such email in the
correct format. Information about the format we require is available upon request from the SLB operations team.

February 2016

Page 142

EXE50144

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.5.3.2

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Identification of Borrowing needs

(a) When determining your Borrowing needs for a particular issue of securities we will take into account the following:
all matched internal delivery Instructions with a Settlement Date not later than the date of the SLB Process
all external and Bridge delivery Instructions submitted for execution for which the date of the SLB Process is
not earlier than the Execution Date
certain Custody Operation Instructions* with Execution Dates not earlier than the SLB Process
any shortfall in your Securities Clearance Account.
* Instruction types 40, 43, 44, 45, 48, 49, 54, 62 and 63 (or their equivalent as set out in the SWIFT specifications) when
their processing does not require a blocking of securities.
(b) A request to borrow is generated to cover a shortfall as shown below:

(c) To be taken into account, we must have received and validated the Instructions listed in (a) above (with a priority
level other than lowest) as follows:
SLB Process
Batch SLB Process

the Input Deadline on the Business Day prior to the Batch SLB Process

Real-time SLB
Process

the start of the real-time SLB Process or by the relevant Input Deadline (whichever one is
earlier)

(d) As we calculate your Borrowing needs on a continuous basis, the amount of securities you borrow may be
insufficient to settle all Instructions with the same priority level.
(e) Your request to borrow will result in a Borrowing but will not result in the execution of a delivery Instruction if, after
the Borrowing has been effected:
there is a delay in the local market
you have insufficient collateral for the execution of the Instruction.
(f) We will not identify a Borrowing need in your Securities Clearance Account for any issue against which a total
blocking has been recorded.

February 2016

Page 143

EXE50145

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Linked delivery Instructions
(g) When the linking of Instructions is applicable to your Securities Clearance Account, Borrowing needs will be
identified as follows:
Option
Borrowing need identified?
Segregation of activities option

Back-to-back trade management option

5.5.3.3

No: for a linked delivery Instruction that forms part of a
linked set if such linked set includes any unexecuted linked
receipt Instruction.
Yes: if the total quantity of securities of any unexecuted
linked delivery Instruction exceeds the quantity of any linked
securities and there remain no unexecuted linked receipt
Instructions (all securities and Instructions being part of the
same linked set).
Yes

Allocation of Borrowings

(a) If the quantity of SLB Eligible Securities is sufficient to cover all outstanding Borrowings, net of reimbursements, then
all requests to borrow will be granted.
(b) Requests to borrow generated through the Automatic Borrowing Program have first priority in the allocation of
Borrowings after all Requested Recalls by Automatic Lenders and Opportunity Lenders have been granted.
(c) If Borrowing requests cannot all be satisfied, Borrowings will be allocated based on the priority and chronological
settlement rules set out in Section 5.2.1.

5.5.3.4

Automatic reimbursement

(a) The calculation of whether your Borrowing can be reimbursed takes account of:
all securities of the issue credited to your Securities Clearance Account
all the Instructions in the backlog of unexecuted Instructions for such issue and such Securities Clearance
Account (excluding linked Instructions).
(b) For each issue of securities for which a Borrowing is outstanding, we will calculate whether the quantity of securities
credited to each Securities Clearance Account exceeds the quantity needed to permit the execution of:
matched internal delivery Instructions
external and Bridge delivery Instructions being examined for settlement for which the Settlement Date in the
Instruction is the date of processing or earlier
Custody Operation Instructions*.
* Instruction types 40, 43, 44, 45, 48, 49, 54, 62 and 63 (or their equivalent as set out in the SWIFT specifications).
We will cause your Borrowing to be reimbursed in the SLB Process during which we identify such excess up to an
amount appropriate in light of such excess.
(c)
or credit, the Borrowing will be maintained until the next Batch SLB Process when it will be re-assessed.
(d) Where an Instruction has generated an Automatic Borrowing but securities are not required to execute the
Instruction due to either:
your lack of collateral to support the credit facility we make available to you in our banking capacity
a delay in the local market,

February 2016

Page 144

EXE50146

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

the Automatic Borrowing will be maintained until the first real-time SLB Process following the Execution Date when
the Instruction is no longer available for settlement.
(e) The last opportunity to reimburse a Borrowing for the same day is 17:00 for CBF eligible securities and 17:30 for all
other securities.

5.5.4

Recalls

5.5.4.1

Automatic detection

(a) If the aggregate outstanding Borrowings of securities of a particular issue will exceed the aggregate Lendable
Positions of such securities in an SLB Process, then no further requests to Borrow securities of that issue will be
granted.
(b)
the
generation of a Requested Recall. A Requested Recall will be granted first by attempting to use SLB Eligible Securities
from other Lenders available in the SLB Process in which the Requested Recall is granted. All Requested Recalls have
equal priority.
(c) To the extent that we are unable to substitute Lenders, one or more Borrowers will be required to repay their
Borrowings. We will send the Borrower(s) a recall notice for the quantity of securities in the Requested Recall.

5.5.4.2

Recall process

(a) A recall noti

Recall Period
Debt securities

Settlement period + 1 Business Day

Equities

Settlement period

We will try to grant the Requested Recall in each succeeding SLB Process. However, they will not be generated or
granted:
in the fifth real-time SLB Process for non-CBF eligible securities (this process is only used to reimburse CBF
eligible securities)
in the sixth real-time SLB Process for CBF eligible securities (new borrowings are generated for these
securities for next day value in CBF).
(b) The Recall Period starts the Business Day following the sending of the recall notice and ends with the End-of-Day
SLB Process on the Repayment Date.
(c) If, during the RTP, a Borrower receives securities of the same issue for which there is a Requested Recall, the
quantity of securities required to reimburse such Requested Recall will be reserved for reimbursement in the next SLB
Process.

5.5.4.3

Failure to return Loan Securities

(a) We may allocate securities for which a Borrowing has not been fully returned to one or more Lenders in the following
order:

February 2016

Page 145

EXE50147

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

IntraLenders that have submitted a Requested Recall (in order of the submission of such Requested Recalls)
any other Lenders (in order of decreasing quantity of securities of outstanding Loans).
In the event that two Lenders fulfil any of the criteria above to an identical extent, securities will be reallocated at
random.
(b)
Account by the Repayment Date given in the recall notice, we will take the actions set forth in Section 5.5.6 and debit
any costs incurred to your Cash Account.
(c) If a Requested Recall lapses we will inform the Lender and the selected Borrower(s) in such manner as we deem
appropriate through standard EUCLID and SWIFT reports.

5.5.5

Corporate Actions

(a) In case a Corporate Action occurs with respect to any Loan Securities while a Loan is outstanding, we will either:
create a manufactured income and enter Instructions to transfer it from the Borrower's Cash Account to the
Lender's Cash Account
recall the Loan Securities
allow the Lender to recall the Loan Securities, depending on the type of Corporate Action.
(b) In addition to the general rules on Corporate Actions in Part V: Section 3 (Custody), the main principles applicable to
Corporate Actions affecting Loan Securities are as follows:
Corporate Action type

Principle

Income

Loan remains outstanding
We will automatically return the income to the Lender

Cash Account with the relevant cash on the income
payment date

Redemptions

In the event that we would need to reverse any income
payment made to the Borrower's Cash Account, the
Lender having provided the Loan Securities to which the
income payment relates, authorises us to reverse any
credit made to their Cash Account in respect to this
income payment
Loan is closed prior to the redemption taking place
If this is not possible, then we will make a payment to
return the redemption proceeds due to the Lender. We

Voting

February 2016

Cash Account with the relevant cash on the redemption
date
Lenders wishing to exercise their voting rights must
recall their Loan Securities

Page 146

EXE50148

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

Mandatory Corporate Actions

Voluntary Corporate Actions

Taxable Cash Distributions

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

We will automatically recall the Loan Securities provided
there is sufficient time between the DACE notice and the
Corporate Action Input Deadline for the Loan to be
recalled and the Loan Securities to be returned to the
Lender
The Lender may recall the Loan Securities. If they
decide to do so, they must make the Requested Recall
sufficiently in advance (i.e. the Repayment Date should
be before the Corporate Action Input Deadline) to be
able to participate to the Corporate Action
Cash distributions subject to withholding tax at source
will be paid gross to the Lender (unless specified
otherwise in the Online Market Guides)
Where Borrowers are required by law, decree, regulation
or order of government or governmental body to make a
deduction or withholding, for or on account of tax or
other duties, the amount due to the Lender will be
increased to equal the gross Cash Distribution made by
the issuer

Consent fees

Where we are required by law, decree, regulation or
order of government or governmental body to make a
deduction or withholding, for or on account of tax or
other duties, the amount due to the Lender will be net of
all deductions and/or withholding
Compensation for consent fees (including incentive fees)
paid by an issuer or its agent as an incentive to holders
of securities to participate in a Corporate Action will be
provided to Lenders where:
the Lender has recalled the securities
change in options during the Recall Period for
the Loan Securities
the Borrower fails to return the Loan Securities
by the end of the Recall Period for such
securities
Compensation will not be provided to Lenders for voting
events with a past Record Date or a future Corporate
Action Input Deadline where the number of Business
Days before the Input Deadline is less than the Recall
Period for the Borrowed Securities
We will debit the Borrower and credit the Lender for the
cash amount equal to the consent fees

(c) If a Non-cash Distribution or the product thereof is not eligible for the SLB Program but is eligible in the Euroclear
System, we will create a temporary Loan in the SLB non-eligible securities. No new Loans will be created and this
temporary Loan will only be recalled from the Borrower where the Lender sends a Requested Recall.
Upon a Requested Recall from the Lender, we will send a recall notice to the Borrower or will, in our sole discretion,
provide cash compensation to the Lender for the Market Value of such distribution.
In the event that the Borrower does not return the Non-cash Distribution by the Repayment Date, pursuant to Section
14(b) of the Supplementary Terms and Conditions, we will attempt to purchase such Non-cash Distribution in such
markets, in such manner, on such terms and for such consideration as we consider appropriate.

February 2016

Page 147

EXE50149

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(d) Compensation for Non-cash Distributions which are not accepted for deposit in the Euroclear System is a cash
amount equal to the Market Value of such distribution.
(e)
our website.

5.5.6

The Euroclear Bank Guaranty

Under the guaranty we provide to Lenders in accordance with Section 14 of the Supplementary Terms and Conditions,
we undertake the following.

5.5.6.1

Purchase of replacement securities

(a) When a Borrower fails to return Loan Securities by the Repayment Date and when the Lender has not requested a
cash compensation before 10:00 on the Business Day following the Repayment Date, we will make a reasonable effort,
during a period of 2 Business Days starting on the Business Day following the Repayment Date, to purchase
replacement securities in such a manner and on such terms as we consider appropriate.
(b) We will always attempt to purchase securities of the same issue and of an identical type, nominal value, description
and amount as the Loan Securities, unless a request for equivalent securities has been received from the Lender. If we
are not successful in purchasing replacement securities for the same amount as the unreturned Loan Securities, we
may in our sole discretion purchase only a portion of replacement securities and continue our reasonable effort to
purchase additional replacement securities if the period of 2 Business Days has not yet expired. In such a case, the
amount of Loan Securities under the relevant Loan shall be reduced pro rata.
(c) Once our treasury department has executed a trade to purchase replacement securities, we will inform the Lender
and the Borrower by MT599 SWIFT message or email. The notification will include details of the security, nominal
amount, price and intended Settlement Date. Replacement securities will be credited to the Securities Clearance
Account of the Lender as soon as practicable after the securities are received by us. All costs incurred by us in
connection with the purchase of replacement securities will be debited from the Cash Account of the Borrower and the
Loan will be terminated.
If, at the end of the period of 2 Business Days mentioned above, all or part of the replacement securities cannot be
purchased on the market, the Loan will continue in default for the amount of Loan Securities which have not been
replaced. The Loan recall remains outstanding for the same amount until either:
the Loan is returned
the Loan is covered by lender re-allocation
the Lender requests cash or equivalent securities.

5.5.6.2

Cash compensation

(a) A Lender may request cash compensation for Loan Securities at any time after the Repayment Date, provided that:
the Loan has not yet been reimbursed
a trade to purchase replacement securities has not yet been executed by our treasury department.
This can be done by sending an MT599 SWIFT message or email to us. Any request received before 10:00 on the
Business Day following the Repayment Date will be considered same day, otherwise it will be considered the next
Business Day.
(b) If at the time of receipt, the conditions listed above are met, we will advise the Lender of the amount of the cash
compensation (Market Value) via MT599 SWIFT message or email. The Lender must confirm by MT599 SWIFT
message or email its agreement to the cash amount to be credited no later than 10:00 on the second Business Day
after being advised of the amount.

February 2016

Page 148

EXE50150

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

(c)

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

-day value.

ed cash

The amount of cash credited to the Lender's Cash Account together with any other expenses incurred by us will be
debited from the Cash Account of the Borrower on the same day and the Loan will be terminated.
If no confirmation is received by the deadline, the Loan will continue and remain in recall. A Lender not having
confirmed its request for cash compensation by the deadline may make further requests for cash compensation at a
later date.

5.5.6.3

Equivalent securities

(a) A Lender may request compensation in the form of equivalent securities (similar characteristics) as the Loan
Securities at any time after the Repayment Date, provided that:
the Loan has not yet been reimbursed
a trade to purchase replacement securities has not yet been executed by our treasury department.
This can be done by sending an MT599 SWIFT message or email to us. Any request received before 10:00 will be
considered same day, otherwise it will be considered the next Business Day.
(b) If at the time of receipt, conditions listed above are met, we will advise the Lender of our agreement to pursue the
request further via MT599 SWIFT message or email. If a Lender informs us of the Securities Codes of equivalent
securities that it would be willing to accept instead of the Loan Securities, then we will advise the Borrower. The
Borrower must confirm via MT599 SWIFT message or email that an outstanding Loan can be covered with such
equivalent securities.
(c) If the Borrower has the equivalent securities in its Securities Clearance Account, we will transfer such securities to
the Lender's Securities Clearance Account.
If the Borrower does not have the equivalent securities in its Securities Clearance Account, we will purchase them. Any
purchase of equivalent securities shall be made in such a manner and on such terms as we consider appropriate. We
will credit the Securities Clearance Account of the Lender as soon as possible after such securities are received by us.
All costs incurred by us in connection with the purchase of equivalent securities will be debited from the Cash Account
of the Borrower and the Loan will be terminated.

5.5.7

Billing

5.5.7.1

Failed Return Fee and supplementary fee

(a) In the event that one or more Borrowers does not reimburse its Borrowing by the Repayment Date, the following
fees will be credited to the Cash Account of each Lender:
a Failed Return Fee
a supplementary fee calculated using the Market Value of Loan Securities which have not been returned as a
result of the End-of-Day SLB Process.
The Failed Return Fee is a fixed amount determined in our sole discretion .The supplementary fee is calculated at a rate
we determine in our sole discretion with reference to overnight rates in the currency of the Loan Securities for a period
starting on the Repayment Date until the date that either:
the Loan is reimbursed
the Requested Recall is cancelled.

February 2016

Page 149

EXE50151

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.5.8

Specific features

5.5.8.1

Participating on an opportunity basis

5.5.8.1.1

Lending

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(a) We may contact one or more Opportunity Lenders if the quantity of securities made available by all Automatic
Lenders is expected to be insufficient to fill all requests to borrow and to recall Loans of such securities.
(b) Your Lendable Position as an Opportunity Lender is the quantity of securities you agree to make available for Loans
upon our request and does not take into account any deliveries of securities or Custody Operations.
You can also define a lending profile similar to that explained for Automatic Lenders in Section 5.5.2.1, but you cannot
define a Pending Delivery Period or any blanket exclusions.
Priorities
(c) As an Opportunity Lender you will have priority over Automatic Lenders in the allocation process. If the total supply
of securities supplied by Opportunity Lenders exceeds the total demand, Loans will be allocated in order of increasing
quantity of securities of such issue made available by Opportunity Lenders.
(d) If all Requested Recalls for Opportunity Lenders cannot be executed, such Requested Recalls will be granted in
order of increasing quantity of securities.

5.5.8.1.2

Borrowing

(a) As an Opportunity Borrower, you may submit a request to borrow as shown in the Euroclear Documentation.
Requests to borrow may also be submitted by Automatic Borrowers in addition to requests generated by the Automatic
Borrowing Program.
(b) We must receive Borrowing requests for an SLB Process before the Input Deadline for such Process. Requests
received after such Input Deadline will be considered for the next SLB Process.
We will initially examine a Borrowing request containing a Start Date during the Batch SLB Process dated such Start
Date. We will keep requests with a future Start Date in the backlog of unexecuted requests until such Start Date has
been reached.
If the request does not include a Start Date or if the Start Date has passed, we will examine the request in the first SLB
Process run where new Borrowings are allowed.
Priorities
(c) Your request to borrow as an Opportunity Borrower will only be considered after all Requested Recalls and requests
by Automatic Borrowers have been granted.
If sufficient SLB Eligible Securities are available to satisfy all outstanding Borrowings, then we will attempt to grant
Opportunity Borrowing requests but do not guarantee our success.
If all Opportunity Borrowing requests for a particular issue cannot be satisfied, allocation will be determined in the
following order:
the Start Date in the request (or if there is no Start Date in the request, the date of the SLB Process in which
we first consider the request)
decreasing quantity of securities.

February 2016

Page 150

EXE50152

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

If a request with an earlier Start Date (or date of first consideration) cannot be granted, a request with a later Start Date
(or date of first consideration) may be granted.
If a request with a larger quantity of Eligible Securities cannot be granted, the granting of a request with a smaller
quantity of securities may be granted.
Conditions
(d) A request to borrow results in a Borrowing if sufficient securities are available and, subject to the satisfaction of the
Settlement Conditions, the granting of the request permits the execution of a delivery Instruction or Custody Operation
Instruction. This decision is dependent on whether the Securities Clearance Account of the Borrower is registered for
the linking of Instructions option as shown below:
Securities Clearance Account registered for linking?
No

A delivery Instruction or Custody Operation Instruction
(Instruction types 40, 43, 44, 45, 48, 49, 54, 62 or 63 or
their equivalent as set out the SWIFT Specifications)

Yes

A delivery Instruction that is not linked or a Custody
Operation Instruction (Instruction types 40, 43, 44, 45,
48, 49, 54, 62 or 63 or their equivalent as set out in the
SWIFT Specifications)
or
An unexecuted linked delivery Instruction in the OSSP, if
the total quantity of securities of any unexecuted linked
delivery Instructions exceeds the quantity of any linked
securities and there remain no unexecuted linked receipt
Instructions (all securities and Instructions being part of
the same linked set)
A request to borrow does not result in a Borrowing in the
Securities Clearance Account of an Opportunity
Borrower if such linked delivery Instruction forms part of
a linked set if such linked set includes any unexecuted
linked receipt Instructions

(e) Such request to borrow will be reported as executed. The Borrowing is for the quantity of securities necessary to
permit the execution of the relevant delivery Instruction or Custody Operation Instruction. This is regardless of whether
the request to borrow is for a greater quantity of securities.
(f) A request to borrow will not result in a Borrowing as shown below:

Insufficient securities are available for lending

February 2016

Such a request to borrow will be reported as unexecuted
and will be attempted again in the next SLB Process. A
request to borrow that remains unexecuted after
attempts for 10 subsequent Business Days lapses
automatically and we take no further action in respect of
any such lapsed request.

Page 151

EXE50153

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

Sufficient securities are available for lending, but the
granting of the request does not permit the execution of
a delivery Instruction or Custody Operation Instruction,
either because:
- there is no such Instruction
- there is such an Instruction but the quantity of
securities in the request to borrow is not sufficient
to permit its execution in the same SLB Process
- there is insufficient collateral available in the

5.5.8.2

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Such a request to borrow is reported as executed but
there will be no Borrowing. The request to borrow is
allowed to lapse during the SLB Process in which it is
reported as executed and we take no further action. In
particular, we will not attempt to re-submit the request in
the next SLB Process.

Intra-family Borrowing

of more than 50%.
A request by an Automatic Lender or Automatic Borrower who is identified as being part of a Family for the purpose of
intra-family Borrowing will be given preferential priority over any other request. As such, the Lendable Position of an
Automatic Lender will be used first to satisfy the Borrowing request from an Automatic Borrower of the same Family and
an Automatic Borrower will have preferential access to the Lendable Position of an Automatic Lender of the same
Family.

5.5.8.3

Dedicated services

(a) Opportunity Borrowing for dedicated services in the fourth real-time SLB Process is subject to the general rules for
Opportunity Borrowing in Section 5.5.8.1.2 except as modified below.
(b) Instructions for Borrowings required to cover debit positions created by our release of an external delivery Instruction
to the French market before you have sufficient available securities will only be considered in the fourth real-time SLB
Process.
(c) Instructions to borrow securities referred to in (b) above are generated by us on your behalf. Each Instruction from
you is deemed to have been entered into the Euroclear System and becomes irrevocable when we have identified a
Borrowing need in accordance with (b) above.

5.5.8.4

Recognition as a centralised lending system for Belgian withholding tax

The SLB Program has been partially recognised as a centralised lending and borrowing program foreseen in Article
261, third paragraph of the Belgian Income Tax Code. We rely on this recognition as of 1 March 2005 with respect to all
securities eligible for Lending through the SLB Program. The current recognition is valid until 31 December 2016,
subject to renewal.
The recognition as centralised lending and borrowing system does not apply to intra-family Borrowing transactions as
described in Section 5.5.8.2.

February 2016

Page 152

EXE50154

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

Part V: Section 6
5.6.1

FundSettle

General section ................................................................................................................. 155

5.6.1.1

FundSettle services............................................................................................................................... 155

5.6.1.2

FundSettle user requirements ............................................................................................................... 155

5.6.1.3

Accepted securities and currencies in FundSettle ................................................................................. 155

5.6.1.4

Termination of FundSettle services ....................................................................................................... 155

5.6.1.5

Set-off ................................................................................................................................................... 155

5.6.2

FundSettle holding structures ......................................................................................... 156

5.6.2.1

Held in the Euroclear System................................................................................................................ 156

5.6.2.2

Held outside the Euroclear System ....................................................................................................... 156

5.6.2.2.1

General rules.................................................................................................................................... 156

5.6.2.2.2

Non-Deposit Accounts...................................................................................................................... 156

5.6.2.2.3

Processing conditions for Non-Deposit Accounts ............................................................................. 157

5.6.3

Additional FundSettle services........................................................................................ 157

5.6.3.1

FundSettle Order Routing Service ........................................................................................................ 157

5.6.3.2

Hedge funds.......................................................................................................................................... 157

5.6.3.3

EMX Message System.......................................................................................................................... 157

5.6.4

Rights and responsibilities .............................................................................................. 158

5.6.4.1

Power of attorney in favour of Euroclear Bank ...................................................................................... 158

5.6.4.2

Agreement with Funds .......................................................................................................................... 159

5.6.4.3

Your authority to act on behalf of beneficial owners .............................................................................. 159

5.6.4.4

Certification and other required documents........................................................................................... 160

5.6.4.5

Application of local market rules............................................................................................................ 160

5.6.4.6

Application of the Net Asset Value and reversals .................................................................................. 161

5.6.4.7

Blocking of Fund Shares and settlement restrictions............................................................................. 161

5.6.4.8

Limitations of liability ............................................................................................................................. 161

5.6.5

Connectivity....................................................................................................................... 161

5.6.5.1

Means of sending FundSettle Instructions to us .................................................................................... 161

5.6.5.1.1

FundSettle Instructions through the FundSettle Browser .................................................................. 162

5.6.5.1.2

FundSettle Instructions through SWIFT............................................................................................ 162

5.6.5.1.3

FundSettle Instructions by fax .......................................................................................................... 162

5.6.5.1.4

Contingency procedures................................................................................................................... 163

5.6.5.2

5.6.6

FundSettle reporting.............................................................................................................................. 163

Operational information ................................................................................................... 163

5.6.6.1

Input of FundSettle Instructions............................................................................................................. 163

5.6.6.2

Recycling, cancellation and amendment of FundSettle Instructions ...................................................... 163

5.6.6.3

Notification of invalid and rejected FundSettle Instructions ................................................................... 164

5.6.6.4

Transfers............................................................................................................................................... 164

5.6.6.5

Processing ............................................................................................................................................ 164

5.6.6.5.1

Positioning conditions, matching and dumps .................................................................................... 165

5.6.6.5.2

Execution ......................................................................................................................................... 165

5.6.6.6

Settlement............................................................................................................................................. 165

5.6.6.6.1

February 2016

Use of code numbers for distributor identification ............................................................................. 165

Page 153

EXE50155

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

5.6.6.6.2

Trading limit...................................................................................................................................... 166

5.6.6.6.3

Cash redemptions ............................................................................................................................ 166

5.6.6.6.4

Subscription proceeds ...................................................................................................................... 166

5.6.6.6.5

Order and transfer confirmations ...................................................................................................... 166

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.6.6.7

Custody................................................................................................................................................. 167

5.6.6.7.1

Corporate Actions............................................................................................................................. 167

5.6.6.7.2

Custody Distributions........................................................................................................................ 167

February 2016

Page 154

EXE50156

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.6.1

General section

5.6.2.1.

FundSettle services

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(a) We provide services for Fund Shares supported by the FundSettle platform. The FundSettle services are part of the
services we offer as operator of the Euroclear System.
The rules and procedures described in this Section must be read in conjunction with all other Sections of these
Operating Procedures unless specified otherwise.
(b) For

service

(c) FundSettle services may differ depending on factors such as:
whether we have entered into an agreement with the Fund or its agent
whether securities are held in the Euroclear System or recorded on a Non-Deposit Account
the nature of the relevant Fund Shares.
(d) Upon notice to you, we may limit our FundSettle services to you.

5.6.2.2.

FundSettle user requirements

In order to use the FundSettle services you must:
be a Participant
subscribe to the service by completing and sending to us the relevant application form
enter into an agreement with us to communicate via the internet by subscribing to the FundSettle Browser.

5.6.2.3.

Accepted securities and currencies in FundSettle

Securities
(a) We may accept Fund Shares for deposit into the Euroclear System in accordance with Section 5.1.1 (Acceptance
criteria). We may also provide FundSettle services for Fund Shares which are not accepted for deposit in the Euroclear
System.
(b)

Currencies
(c) Settlement Currencies accepted for FundSettle Instructions depend on the settlement currencies offered by the Fund
the Fund will be available in FundSettle.

5.6.2.4.

Termination of FundSettle services

In order to terminate your subscription to the FundSettle services you must provide us with notice and send FundSettle
Instructions to transfer out all Fund Shares held in your FundSettle account(s).

5.6.2.5.

Set-off

We may at any time, without prior notice to you, set off any liability of you to us under, or resulting from any action taken
pursuant to, this Section 5.6 against any liability of us to you under, or resulting from any action taken pursuant to, this
Section 5.6. Any exercise by us of our right of set off under this Section 5.6.1.5 shall not limit or affect any other rights or
remedies available to us under the Terms and Conditions or otherwise.
February 2016

Page 155

EXE50157

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.6.2

FundSettle holding structures

5.6.2.1.

Held in the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(a) Fund Shares registered in the name of Euroclear Bank SA/NV, FundSettle EOC Nominees Ltd. or any other
nominee controlled by us, are securities held in the Euroclear System. Records of such holdings are shown in your
Securities Clearance Account(s).
(b) If, for any reason, the records on a Securities Clearance Account do not correspond to the recorded position on the
will adjust the records on the Securities Clearance Account provided we
have, what we deem to be, sufficient notice of the discrepancy. We are not liable for the consequences of such
adjustment.
(c) Transfers between Participants are reflected on a Securities Clearance Account:
for Real-time Settlement (RTS) eligible Funds, upon successful positioning and matching of the transfer
Instructions in FundSettle, we will forward requests for re-registration or recording to the relevant Fund. The
Fund will reflect all settled transfer Instructions with the same trade date as FundSettle. The settlement will be
considered as final once the movements are reflected in the Fund's shareholder register or records.
for non-RTS eligible Funds, after we receive confirmation of the amendment to the shareholders register or
records.

5.6.2.2.

Held outside the Euroclear System

5.6.2.2.1.

General rules

(a) Fund Shares registered or recorded in a name other than Euroclear Bank SA/NV, FundSettle EOC Nominees Ltd. or
any other nominee controlled by us, are not held in the Euroclear System. Information on such Fund Shares will be
recorded in a Non-Deposit Account.
We decide, in our sole discretion, whether to register Fund Shares in the name of Euroclear Bank SA/NV, FundSettle
EOC Nominees Ltd., any other nominee controlled by us, or otherwise.
(b) In accordance with your FundSettle Instructions, when it is required to effect the registration or recording of Fund
Shares in the name of your designee, we will forward the details you provide for such registration or recording to the
relevant Fund.

5.6.2.2.2.

Non-Deposit Accounts

(a) Non-Deposit Account records may show information for securities or other rights or entitlements to receive
securities. You should consult your own advisers to determine:
the nature of such rights or entitlements
in whose name such rights or entitlements should be recorded with the Fund.
We will not provide advice on the above subjects and are not responsible for any losses related to entitlements held
outside the Euroclear System.
(b) If for any reason the records on a Nonshareholder register or records, we will adjust the records on the Non-Deposit Account provided we have, what we
deem to be, sufficient notice of the discrepancy. We accept no liability for such adjustment.
(c) Transfers can only be reflected on a Non-Deposit Account after we receive confirmation of the amendment to the
shareholders register or records of the Fund if applicable. We will forward requests for re-registration or recording to the
relevant Fund.
(d) We have no liability for losses caused by Fund Shares recorded on your Non-Deposit Account being found to be
fraudulent, forged or invalid. Upon such discovery, we will debit your Non-Deposit Account for such Fund Shares.
February 2016

Page 156

EXE50158

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.6.2.2.3.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Processing conditions for Non-Deposit Accounts

(a) The execution of FundSettle Instructions in respect of Non-Deposit Accounts is subject to the same settlement and
custody conditions for processing and execution as for any other Instruction. This will include a positioning to determine
whether you have a sufficient quantity of securities to execute your FundSettle Instruction.
We can refuse to process a FundSettle Instruction if you have an insufficient quantity of securities to permit its
execution.
(b) We accept no liability if, for any reason, the Fund refuses to:
make or receive payment in relation to Fund Shares for which information is recorded on a Non-Deposit
Account
process any voting or any other FundSettle Instruction in respect of such Fund Shares.

5.6.3

Additional FundSettle services

5.6.3.1.

FundSettle Order Routing Service

(a) For the FundSettle Order Routing Service, no holdings are recorded in a Securities Clearance Account or NonDeposit Account. If you use this service without already having a Securities Clearance Account, we will open such an
Account for you for purposes such as identification, user access management and invoicing.
(b) The following rules apply to the FundSettle Order Routing Service in addition to the other relevant provisions of
these Operating Procedures:
you must agree with the power of attorney outlined in Section 5.6.4.1 for your Account(s)
Fund Shares which we accept for the provision of this service are identified as such in the FundSettle funds
database
it is your sole responsibility to execute payments in a timely manner and to perform all obligations which stem
from Instructions routed through this service.

5.6.3.2.

Hedge funds

We may accept Fund Shares of hedge funds. For information on the services we offer in respect of hedge funds, please
-

5.6.3.3.

EMX Message System

(a) We can use the EMX Message System to support FundSettle services for certain Fund Shares (identifiable in the
of the EMX Message System.
(b) Depending on your domicile, we may or may not use the EMX Message System for your activity.
(c) Contracts for sales and purchases of Fund Shares for which we use the EMX Message System will be made on the
following terms except to the extent that the parties to the contract have previously agreed other terms, in which case

Products and funds listed by a Fund Provider on the EMX Message System constitute an invitation to treat
A message from an intermediary to buy or sell is an offer. The offer is made when the message is received by
the Fund Provider through the EMX Message System on its screen in legible form
f the offer,
calculated in accordance with the relevant regulations and constitutional documents of the scheme in question
the web page allocated to the Fund Provider within the EMX Message System

February 2016

Page 157

EXE50159

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Fund Provider executes the contract after the next valuation point, and the process is completed when a
contract note message is sent by the Fund Provider. Exact valued contained within the message represent the
governing contract note for the executed trade (and ancillary activities) for the purpose of the regulatory rules
between professional counterparties
In a contract for an intermediary to buy Units through the EMX Message System, the intermediary warrants
that it is authorised to enter into the contract and that cleared funds shall be available to settle the purchase
within the time required by the regulations
In a contract for an intermediary to sell Units through the EMX Message System the intermediary warrants that
it is authorised to enter into the contract and that the product (i.e. Fund Shares) will be delivered within the
time required by the regulations
As between the intermediary and the Fund Provider, the intermediary deals as principal unless the
intermediary has informed the Fund Provider that it is acting as agent and disclosed for whom it is acting as
agent
The intermediary will give the Fund Provider such information as the provider is entitled to require pursuant to
the terms of issue of any product to supplement any instructions given through the EMX Message System,
including information required to satisfy nationality declaration requirements
All contracts placed through the EMX Message System shall be governed by English law.
(d) You must provide an investor identification code when using the EMX Message System. If you do not want any
specific terms to be applied to your deals, nor receive any special commissions, charges or other fees, you may input
for corrections or changes to the conditions applied to your deals.

5.6.4

Rights and responsibilities

5.6.4.1.

Power of attorney in favour of Euroclear Bank

(a) You hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint us as your true and lawful agent and attorney in fact for the purpose
of making, executing, dating and delivering, on your behalf, subscription forms, share application forms, redemption
forms, transfer forms, account opening agreements, acknowledgements that KIID was received, read and understood,
or any other agreements or documents required by a Fund or any relevant third party further to a FundSettle Instruction
or as we deem necessary.
You are bound to the terms and conditions, including any indemnity, penalty or similar provisions, of all documents we
execute on your behalf pursuant to this power of attorney.
(b) You hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint us as your true and lawful agent and attorney in fact for the purpose
of:
cancelling a subscription order (where possible) or redeeming newly subscribed or newly issued Fund Shares,
if: (i) there is insufficient cash on (or, if we have extended credit to you in our banking capacity, there is
insufficient credit linked to) your Cash Account on Settlement Date; and (ii) we determine in our sole discretion
that such order is required
cancelling a subscription order (where possible) or redeeming newly subscribed or newly issued Fund Shares,
if you: (i) have entered into liquidation, bankruptcy or any other insolvency proceedings; or (ii) have applied for
a composition with your creditors or for deferment of your debts, whether in or out of court.
This irrevocable power of attorney will remain in full force and effect notwithstanding the opening of liquidation,
bankruptcy or any other insolvency proceedings. We accept no liability for any loss suffered as a consequence of a
cancellation or redemption of Fund Shares in accordance with this Section 5.6.4.1(b).
(c) The powers of attorney in (a) and (b) above are exclusive, meaning that in respect of securities for which FundSettle
services are being provided, you must not directly instruct the Fund or any Depository or Other Settlement System,
unless you have a prior agreement for such instruction in place with us.
If, in the process of performing any actions under the powers of attorney in (a) and (b) above, we require any additional
information, you must provide such information upon our request. We are not responsible for any delay in processing
your FundSettle Instructions caused by the need for additional documentation.

February 2016

Page 158

EXE50160

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

In exceptional circumstances for the FundSettle Order Routing Service, a Fund may not accept Instructions from
FundSettle. In such exceptional circumstances, you are obliged to instruct the Fund directly.
(d) You represent and warrant that:
you have full power and authority to grant us the above powers of attorney
the granting of such powers of attorney does not, and will not, violate any provision of your constitutional
documents (including articles, charter or by-laws) or any law, regulation, ordinance, rule or statute of the
jurisdiction by which you are bound or governed
the powers of attorney are enforceable against you in accordance with their terms.

5.6.4.2.

Agreement with Funds

(a) In order to provide FundSettle services, we may, in our sole discretion, enter into agreements with Funds, entities
acting for such Funds or other third parties.
We accept no liability for:
failing to enter into such agreements
h of the agreements
termination of such agreements.
(b) You agree to hold us harmless and indemnify us from and against any and all claims, demands, liabilities and
expenses which may be incurred by or brought or made against us, by a Fund or any other third party, whether arising
directly or indirectly in connection with our having acted upon your FundSettle Instructions or where we have otherwise
entered into agreements such as those envisaged in (a) above.

5.6.4.3.

Your authority to act on behalf of beneficial owners

(a) You must have authority from
any person for which you send (a) FundSettle Instruction(s)
the beneficial owner of Fund Shares credited to your Securities Clearance Account
any person registered as the direct holder of Fund Shares recorded in your Non-Deposit Account
to:
send FundSettle Instructions
make and receive payments in respect of FunsSettle Instructions and Fund Shares
grant us the powers of attorney set out in Section 5.6.4.1.
You must act within the scope of such authority and inform us immediately if such authority is impaired or revoked. We
make no investigation in regards to such authority and assume that you have obtained such authority.
(b) Upon our request, the request of a Fund or any relevant third party, you must provide the required documentation
which evidences your authority to act on behalf of
a person for which you send (a) FundSettle Instruction(s)
a beneficial owner
any person registered as the direct holder of Fund Shares
in respect of FundSettle Instructions or otherwise under this Section 5.6.
You indemnify us, upon demand, for any loss, claim, liability or expense asserted against or imposed upon us in
connection with:
your lack of authority to grant the powers of attorney set out in Section 5.6.4.1
your lack of authority to send FundSettle Instructions
your failure to produce or execute any required documents.

February 2016

Page 159

EXE50161

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(c)
u to input names in your FundSettle Instructions other than your
own for your convenience. Referrals to the identity of any other person on the screen pages of the FundSettle website
or any Instruction, report or communication we receive from you, will not imply or create a contractual relationship
between us and such named person.

5.6.4.4.

Certification and other required documents

(a) Funds may require you, or beneficial owners, to certify compliance with holding or investment restrictions, or make
certain representations, warranties, covenants, acknowledgements or other requirements (including indemnities) for the
holding of Fund Shares or execution of:
subscriptions forms
share application forms
account opening agreements
any other agreement or document required by the Fund.
(b) By sending us a FundSettle Instruction, you confirm that:
you (or an underlying beneficial owner) have read, and agree with all provisions of, the account opening form,
application form or any other document that is used to subscribe to the relevant Fund.
you (or an underlying beneficial owner) have read, are bound by, and will comply with the terms and
conditions of all documents required by the relevant Fund.
you (or an underlying beneficial owner) are, and will remain, compliant with all certification requirements of the
relevant Fund.
For some Instructions, the Fund may require a written form containing certification requirements. We may sign this
document based on your Instructions.
(c) The Fund may require that certification must be executed directly by you or the beneficial owner. We are not
responsible for any delays this may cause. You are responsible for obtaining certification from beneficial owners and
verifying the accuracy of such certification. You indemnify and hold us harmless for any damage we incur due to your
(or an entity acting for you) misrepresentation.
(d) Once we receive a FundSettle Instruction from you, your name or Account number will amount to a manual
signature for all purposes related to such FundSettle Instruction.
Your delivery of such FundSettle Instruction constitutes affirmation of the completeness, truth and accuracy of the
certification with reference to all documentation of the issue or as determined by the Fund.
Upon our request, you must promptly execute (or have executed by a beneficial owner) a paper form certification as
required by the governing documentation of the Fund.
(e) You are responsible for providing any additional information or documentation from yourself or from the underlying
beneficial owner if required by us or the Fund. We are not responsible for any delay in processing your Instructions
caused by the need for additional documentation. Acceptance of FundSettle Instructions is always at the discretion of a
Fund.

5.6.4.5.

Application of local market rules

For the purposes of Section 5.2, in relation to Funds local market rules include:
the rules of the country in which the Fund or any relevant agent is established
the rules applicable to Fund Shares under their governing documentation
any practice imposed by the Fund.

February 2016

Page 160

EXE50162

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.6.4.6.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Application of the Net Asset Value and reversals

(a) We will place your Instructions for the next available dealing date provided your FundSettle Instructions are valid and
received by the relevant FundSettle Input Deadline and in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5.6.
(b)
must advise us promptly upon discovery of any error or omission related to the application of the Net Asset Value.
(c) Where we make an error which causes a delay in the processing of your FundSettle Instruction and which results in
a different Net Asset Value and dealing date, upon discovery, we will adjust entries to your Accounts in order to apply
your initially instructed Net Asset Value and dealing date, provided that your FundSettle Instructions were valid and
received by the relevant FundSettle Input Deadline.
(d) We can reverse any credit or debit made to your Accounts following:
any error of the Fund, which resulted in application of an incorrect Net Asset Value
any erroneous order confirmation we receive from the Fund
the reversal by the Fund of a transfer of Fund Shares at a later date.

5.6.4.7.

Blocking of Fund Shares and settlement restrictions

Securities can be blocked in your Account in accordance with Section 3.3. In particular, Fund Shares will be
unavailable:
if required for any circumstances affecting the Fund
if Fund Shares are to be debited following a redemption or re-credited following our cancellation
if we deem it necessary for Custody Operations
between the date we credit Fund Shares into your Account and the settlement and related cash payment for
such Fund Shares to the Fund
if we deem it necessary in connection with your Instructions.

5.6.4.8.

Limitations of liability

We accept no liability for:
any loss suffered as a consequence or a cancellation of a subscription or of a redemption of Fund Shares in
accordance with Section 5.6.4.1(b)
being unable to process your FundSettle Instructions see Section 5.6.6.5(d)
any delay caused by manual intervention of your FundSettle Instruction see Section 5.6.6.5(e)
the failed execution of your Instruction due to incorrectly completed application forms see Section 5.6.6.5(g)
any delay or failure in the processing of a cancellation or amendment request see Section 5.6.6.2.

5.6.5

Connectivity

5.6.5.1.

Means of sending FundSettle Instructions to us

You can communicate with us in the ways shown below in accordance with provisions described throughout these
Operating Procedures (in particular Part IV Connectivity
the service documents listed throughout this Section 5.6.5.

February 2016

Page 161

EXE50163

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

General connectivity

FundSettle Instructions

FundSettle Browser

FundSettle Browser

SWIFT

SWIFT

Fax

Fax*

H2H (file transfer)

H2H (file transfer)

EUCLID
Mail
Email
Courier
Internet
Telephone
*in contingency situations or where specifically agreed with us.

5.6.5.1.1.

FundSettle Instructions through the FundSettle Browser

Information on how to subscribe and communicate with us via the FundSettle Browser is contained in the following
documents, available on our website:
User Access Management Guide
Upload guide for Participants
How to connect to FundSettle Browser access
FundSettle testing guide for Participants

5.6.5.1.2.

FundSettle Instructions through SWIFT

FundSettle Instructions sent via SWIFT must conform to the rules and procedures described in Section 4.1.2.1.1.

5.6.5.1.3.

FundSettle Instructions by fax

(a) You may use fax to communicate with us for FundSettle services. We will process FundSettle Instructions sent by
fax in accordance with Section 4.1.2.2.1 and (b) below.
(b) A FundSettle Instruction sent by fax must:
be sent to the correct address, as confirmed via telephone with our FundSettle client services team
be on the standard fax format, as confirmed via telephone with our FundSettle client services team, and have
all fields completed
be signed by authorised signatories (see below) and clearly indicate the name of such authorised signatories
be preceded by you informing us, via telephone, of your intention to use fax as a means of communicating
FundSettle Instructions (not applicable for Corporate Action Instructions).
(c) Sending FundSettle Instructions via fax will result in a delay in our processing.
Authorised signatories
(d) Upon registering for FundSettle you must provide us with a list of signatories authorised to send FundSettle
Instructions. This is in addition to the signatory list you must send in accordance with Section 4.1.1.3.
(e) It is your responsibility to ensure such FundSettle Instructions have been signed by your authorised signatories.

February 2016

Page 162

EXE50164

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

Deemed receipt
(f) FundSettle Instructions sent by fax are deemed to be received when we receive the fax at our address marked to the
te transmission report. You must contact us
via telephone to inform us of your receipt of such transmission report.

5.6.5.1.4.

Contingency procedures

(a) You must have in place appropriate back up to transmit FundSettle Instructions in contingency situations as follows:
Primary means of communication

Back up

SWIFT or H2H (file transfer)

FundSettle Browser

FundSettle Browser

Fax (you must request authorisation to use fax*)

* Should you be unable to use the FundSettle Browser you must inform us via telephone of your intention to use fax as
a means of communicating FundSettle Instructions.
(b) In contingency situations, we will process your FundSettle Instructions on a reasonable effort basis and may not be
able to process all faxed FundSettle Instructions from all Participants in due time even if they were sent before the
relevant FundSettle Input Deadline.

5.6.5.2.

FundSettle reporting

(a)
(b) We will send DACE notices for Fund Shares accepted for FundSettle services standing to the credit of your
Account(s). You should continue to consult DACE notices sent through EUCLID or SWIFT even if you input some
FundSettle Instructions through the FundSettle Browser.

5.6.6

Operational information

5.6.6.1.

Input of FundSettle Instructions

(a) We only process valid FundSettle Instructions received in accordance with Part IV and Part V
Operating Procedures and th

Section 6 of these

(b) You cannot input a FundSettle Instruction for a future Execution Date.
(c) We accept no liability for delay in the processing of FundSettle Instructions if your placement of an order with a Fund
requires the opening of a new account with such Fund.
(d) For cleared Funds, you must ensure that:
the cash Settlement Date indicated in your FundSettle Instruction, if any, is in accordance with the
requirements of the Fund
you have sufficient cash in your Cash Account (or provision of cash) to meet the FundSettle Instruction or you
receive a credit line from us (as determined by us in our banking capacity) to allow for timely execution.
(e) Input Deadlines for FundSettle Instructions are available on the FundSettle funds database and in DACE notices we
provide.

5.6.6.2.

Recycling, cancellation and amendment of FundSettle Instructions

Should your cancellation request arrive after we have passed on the FundSettle Instruction to the Fund, we will, on a
reasonable effort basis, forward it on to the Fund but accept no liability for:

February 2016

Page 163

EXE50165

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

our delay in the processing of the cancellation/amendment request
the request not being processed by the Fund.

5.6.6.3.

Notification of invalid and rejected FundSettle Instructions

We will notify you if a FundSettle Instruction is found to be invalid or is rejected by the Fund, provided we have been
duly notified of the rejection by the Fund.
We are not responsible for any delay in relaying rejections from the Fund or for any erroneous rejection by the Fund.

5.6.6.4.

Transfers

(a) For a transfer of Fund Shares , we will reflect your re-registered FundSettle portfolio through a record in your Securities
Clearance Account or Non-Deposit Account depending on the type of registration.
for Real-time Settlement (RTS) eligible Funds, when we have successfully positioned and matched the
Instructions in FundSettle
for non-RTS eligible Funds, when we receive confirmation from the Fund that re-registration is completed.
(b) During the processing of a transfer you will be unable to instruct on the affected Fund Shares.

5.6.6.5.

Processing

(a) With the exception of maintenance periods, FundSettle Instructions input through FundSettle are generally
processed on an STP basis (not applicable for Corporate Action Instructions or account opening Instructions).
(b) Our obligation in respect of processing FundSettle Instructions is limited to our relaying such Instructions (provided
they are valid) to the relevant Fund and making or receiving payments in accordance with this Section 5.6.6.
We are not liable for the non-receipt by a Fund of an Instruction sent via unsecure means (fax, mail, etc) provided that
we can evidence our proper relay of the Instruction to such Fund. Such evidence can be fax confirmations or courier
delivery confirmations.
(c) You bear the risk of loss or delay in the process of transfer of Fund Shares under your FundSettle Instruction from
the moment it has been communicated by us to the Fund or any Depository or Other Settlement System. The Fund is
responsible for arranging re-registration in the name you designate and for confirming the amendment of the

The timing of re-registration of Fund Shares is dependent on the Fund. In general, forms must be completed by the
transferor and transferee. Delays can occur for the re-registration of Fund Shares that only allow updates to the register
on dealing dates.
As the case may be, the agents acting as Depository, the Depository or any Other Settlement System are responsible
for arranging and confirming delivery or transfer of Fund Shares to or from the persons or accounts you designate.
(d) We accept no liability for being unable to process your FundSettle Instruction for any reason, including but not
limited to:
any holding, registration, voting or any other restriction established in the Fund Shares governing
documentation, subscription agreement or any other agreement or form
any relevant law, decree or judgement of any government, court or other governmental agency or body of
competent jurisdiction
the refusal of any Fund or intermediary to process a FundSettle Instruction.
(e) Some FundSettle Instructions will require manual intervention if information necessary for execution is missing.
If manual intervention is required, there may be a delay in processing. This will depend on the type of intervention
required and on factors such as whether information is directly accessible or if we are dependent on input from you or
external parties such as the Fund.
February 2016

Page 164

EXE50166

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

You can check the status of your FundSettle Instructions by consulting:
the FundSettle Browser
H2H (file transfer)
SWIFT reporting
other means we deem appropriate.
You are kept informed of the expected delay for execution, depending on the missing type of information or other
requirements.
(f)
We are not responsible for a Transfer Agent failing to comply with any comments contained in such field.
(g) We will, on a reasonable effort basis, complete application forms on your behalf. The acceptance of an Instruction is
at all times at the discretion of the Fund.
We are not responsible if the Fund refuses to accept an Instruction due to a wrongly filled out application form or any
other forms. It is your responsibility to keep us informed with up to date information to fill out application forms.

5.6.6.5.1.

Positioning conditions, matching and dumps

(a) Positioning for securities and cash is subject to the same Positioning Conditions as set out in Section 5.2.1
Processing rules.
(b) Instructions for transfers are deemed to match if any discrepancy between Fund Share amounts is not greater than 1
Fund Share. In the case of a discrepancy of 1 Fund Share or less, the Fund Share amount indicated by the Transfer
Agent will be used for execution.In the case of discrepancy of more than 1 Fund Share, the Instructions will not be
processed.
(c) Dumps can occur when a Fund books a transfer to an Account without a matching FundSettle Instruction from the
Account holder. We will notify you if we process dumps relating to incoming transfers for your Account. If you receive
any erroneous dumps, you should instruct an outgoing transfer to return the Fund Shares to the counterparty. Failure to
do so within 5 Business Days of receipt of notification is evidence of your approval of the dumps.

5.6.6.5.2.

Execution

(a) We will execute your FundSettle Instruction once positioning is successful and the Processing Conditions are met.
(b) Execution of a FundSettle Instruction entails effecting any required credit, debit or blocking and generating any
required transmission of Instructions to the Fund or appropriate Cash Correspondent.
(c) Some Funds confirm FundSettle Instructions via fax, mail or email. We accept no liability for the absence of, delays
or errors in confirmations and in the execution of reporting. As a result of such reporting, we may be required to effect
reversals or corrections to your Account.
(d) A Fund can elect to process a FundSettle Instruction by instalments. Should they do so, we are authorised to send
further FundSettle Instructions on your behalf to fully effect your initial FundSettle Instruction.

5.6.6.6.

Settlement

5.6.6.6.1.

Use of code numbers for distributor identification

(a) We do not validate code numbers or other forms of identification you input to identify the distributor of the Fund. We
will however make this information available to the relevant Fund.
(b) We accept no liability if the code number you input is incomplete or incorrect, and this results in rejection of the
Instruction by the Fund or incorrect or undue payment of commissions or fees or any other consequences.

February 2016

Page 165

EXE50167

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

5.6.6.6.2.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Trading limit

You may set a trading limit for your FundSettle Account in order to monitor and manage your exposure from trade date
to cash Settlement Date. You can set this limit for individual Accounts or link multiple Accounts. We accept no liability
for delay or failure in the processing or settlement of Instructions due to the application of your trading limit.

5.6.6.6.3.

Cash redemptions

(a) You may instruct a redemption expressed as a cash amount provided:
such Instruction type is accepted by the Fund for such Fund Shares
you have sufficient Fund Shares available in your Account and held in your name/on your behalf with the
Fund.
(b) We will position your cash redemption Instruction by determining the relevant number of Fund Shares required for
the instructed cash amount.
We can, in our sole discretion, add a margin for a cash redemption Instruction to avoid the possibility that you attempt
redemption for a greater number of Fund Shares than you have in your Account. This may cause positioning to be
unsuccessful and we accept no liability for the consequences of this action.
(c) The value of Fund Shares will be determined by us, based on information contained in the FundSettle funds
database. We accept no liability for such information being incorrect and causing your cash redemption Instruction to fail
to be positioned.
(d) We are authorised to initiate a subscription at any time to cover Fund Shares that have been redeemed in excess of
the available balance in your Account and held in your name/on your behalf with the Fund. You must cover the cost and
expense of this subscription.
(e) A cash redemption Instruction, processed on behalf of any other Participant, can cause Fund Shares standing to the
credit of your Account to be blocked. We accept no liability for the loss of use of such Fund Shares.
(f) Delays and/or discrepancies in the payment of proceeds can occur due to, without limitation:
Fund Shares with specific requirements
the way payments are processed by the Fund.
(g) Specific features regarding partial redemption are provided in the FundSettle International service description.
When a Fund confirms a redemption order for part of an instructed amount, we will credit you with the relevant
percentage of the redemption proceeds received. Your FundSettle Instruction will remain pending in the Euroclear
System. We will settle such FundSettle Instruction once we receive confirmation from the Fund of the redemption for the
total remaining amount of Fund Shares and of the remaining redemption proceeds.
(h) We accept no liability for delay or failure in the settlement of FundSettle Instructions due to the delay or failure of the
Fund to confirm the remaining part of the order and/or to credit the outstanding redemption proceeds.

5.6.6.6.4.

Subscription proceeds

If you place a subscription, credits to your Account are provisional until we have made the necessary payment to the
Fund. You should be aware that your positions with the Fund may only become available, once the Fund has
successfully reconciled our payment.

5.6.6.6.5.

Order and transfer confirmations

(a) Order confirmations are provided to us by the Fund. Contract notes are usually sent to us electronically but may
sometimes be sent by unsecured means. The availability of such contract notes is dependent on the Fund and can
cause delays in settlement.

February 2016

Page 166

EXE50168

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(b) It is your responsibility to verify the order confirmation and details of orders/transfer are correct and to advise us in
the case of any error.

5.6.6.7.

Custody

5.6.6.7.1.

Corporate Actions

We will handle Corporate Actions affecting Fund Shares provided we have been duly notified by the Fund.

5.6.6.7.2.

Custody Distributions

(a) For the purposes of FundSettle, a Custody Distribution includes any distribution of Fund Shares or other
securities/cash payments made by a Fund.
(b) The Record Date for Fund Shares is specified by the Fund. Fund Share balances used to determine entitlements for
Custody Distributions are those at 24:00 on Record Date.
(c) You are entitled to the product of Custody Distributions for Fund Shares recorded on a Non-Deposit Account if on
the Record Date they are registered in your name or the name of your designee. We will credit you with Custody
Distributions for such Fund Shares unless we receive contrary instructions from the Fund.
(d) We should receive Custody Distributions for Fund Shares recorded on a Non-Deposit Account if upon registration,
you or your designee provided the relevant documentation and details in respect of the FundSettle service. We are not
liable should a Custody Distribution not be made by the Fund.
(e) The credit of Custody Distributions to your Account(s) is made as shown below:
Custody Cash Distributions
Upon receipt and reconciliation of cash for our account
at the relevant Cash Correspondent

February 2016

Custody Non-Cash Distributions
Upon receipt of the relevant confirmation from the Fund

Page 167

EXE50169

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

February 2016

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Page 168

EXE50170

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Annex I: Definitions
In these definitions, where appropriate and unless the context implies otherwise, references to the singular will include
the plural.
Within the Operating Procedures we may define a term for a specific section. These definitions will be capitalised and
placed in inverted commas.
Capitalised terms which are not included in the list of defined terms below have the meaning given to them in the Terms
and Conditions or the Supplementary Terms and Conditions.

List of defined terms
Back Value / backvalue the use of a Value Date for the cash side of an against-payment securities transaction
involving Newly-Issued Securities corresponding to an earlier contractual Settlement Date rather than the date on which
actual settlement occurs.
Board

our board of directors.

Bridge the name used for the processes established between Euroclear Bank and Clearstream that permit crosssystems settlement of a trade between a Participant and a customer of Clearstream.
Bridge Agreement
from time to time.

the Amended and Restated Bridge Agreement concluded by us and Clearstream as amended

Bridge Currency a Settlement Currency which has been accepted by both Euroclear Bank and Clearstream for
Bridge settlement.
Cash Correspondent

a correspondent bank which holds cash on our behalf for the Euroclear System.

Cash Distribution any interest, dividend or other payment distributed by any issuer, or any agent on behalf of an
issuer, on any issue of securities, other than a payment in full or a retirement of securities.
Certification Event an event which requires a certification in connection with the governing documentation or laws
and regulations applicable to certain issues of securities.
Clearstream

Clearstream Banking S.A. (Luxembourg).

Clearstream Delivery Transmission
deliveries.

a transmission from Clearstream to Euroclear Bank of proposed Bridge

Clearstream Feedback Transmission a transmission from Clearstream to Euroclear Bank indicating which proposed
deliveries in the previous Euroclear Delivery Transmission are accepted and which are rejected.
Closing Date / Issuance Date in relation to any distribution of Newly-Issued Securities, the date set by the issuer,
lead manager or agent as the date when a security or new tranche of securities is issued on the market and as of which
settlement in that security can become effective.
Common Code a nine-digit number allocated jointly by Euroclear Bank and Clearstream to identify each issue of
securities accepted for deposit in the Euroclear System and/or Clearstream.
Common Depository an entity appointed by Euroclear Bank and Clearstream to provide safekeeping and asset
servicing for certain securities.
Common Safekeeper an entity appointed by Euroclear Bank and Clearstream to provide safekeeping for certain
securities in NGN form.

February 2016

Page 169

EXE50171

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

Common Service Provider an entity appointed by Euroclear Bank and Clearstream to provide asset servicing for
certain securities in NGN form.
Corporate Action an event which may occur during the lifespan of a security. Some take place on fixed dates
whereas others occur on an ad hoc basis. For purposes of the SWIFT ISO 15022 standard it means:

Custody Cash Distribution any redemption amount, interest, dividend or other cash payment distributed by an
issuer, or any agent on behalf of an issuer, in respect of an issue of securities held in the Euroclear System or in respect
of which we provide services.
a Custody Cash Distribution or a Custody Non-cash Distribution.

Custody Distribution

Custody Non-cash Distribution any bonus securities, rights or other entitlements in the form of securities,
distributed by an issuer, or any agent on behalf of an issuer, in respect of an issue of securities held in the Euroclear
System or in respect of which we provide services.
Custody Operation

an action we take on your behalf in respect of, or resulting from, a Corporate Action, which

Custody Operation Conditions conditions that must be met (according to the type of Custody Operation) in order for
a Custody Operation to be executed.
DACE
Actio
Daily Cash Statement

The official statement of balance for cash you hold in the Euroclear System.

Daylight Indicator SETD and, for purposes of the SWIFT ISO 15022 standard, means the override indicator
=/RTGS/. This indicator cannot be added to an Instruction that is already input. You should cancel and replace the
Instruction with a new Instruction including the Daylight Indicator.
Delivery Transmission a communication by a delivering settlement system to a receiving settlement system
requesting the acceptance of a transfer of securities from the delivering settlement system to the receiving settlement
system.
(EPIM) European Pre-Issuance Messaging System
and C
Euroclear Bank and Clearstream.
EPIM Documentation
Bank.
EPIM Message

a central messaging system for facilitating the allocation of ISIN

the EPIM Getting Started Pack and any other EPIM-related documents published by Euroclear

a message sent or received using EPIM.

ESSC Euroclear Self Service Centre, a web based interface that you may use, subject to prior agreement with us, to
receive reports and exchange files with us. ESSC is available over the internet and secured via user access
management either via smart card or soft certificate.
EUCLID

a data transport network and processing system that you may use, subject to prior agreement with us,
to input certain Instructions and requests
to access information and receive reports.

It uses the GEIS (General Electric Information Services) Mark III time-sharing network for data transport and the
EUCLID gateway computer for processing. Instructions are validated by us and reports are prepared on the EUCLID
gateway computer for your retrieval.

February 2016

Page 170

EXE50172

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUCLID PC

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

a computer software application which provides access to EUCLID.

EUCLID Server

a computer software application which provides access to EUCLID.

EUCLID User a person, or application running on a computer, identified by the correct combination of network user
number, network password, EUCLID user number and EUCLID password.
Euroclear Delivery Transmission

a transmission from Euroclear Bank to Clearstream of proposed Bridge deliveries.

Euroclear Documentation all documentation we publish and/or make available on the Euroclear Bank website and to
which these Operating Procedures refer, as may be amended or supplemented from time to time. The Euroclear
Documentation includes among others the Online Market Guides or the individual service guides.
Euroclear Feedback Transmission a transmission from Euroclear Bank to Clearstream indicating which proposed
deliveries in the previous Clearstream Delivery Transmission are accepted and which are rejected.
Ex-distribution Date the first day of owing (underlying) securities upon which there is a Non-cash Distribution without
the right to such Non-cash Distribution.
Execution the successful implementation within the Euroclear System of an Instruction or operation. For internal
Instructions or operations, execution coincides with settlement.
Execution Date the Business Day when an Instruction is submitted for execution, with reference to the date you set
out in your Instruction, or a number of days before such date, depending on the type of Instruction or operation.
For Custody Operation Instructions, the Execution Date is the date you specify, or in the absence of such specification,
the date that we attribute to the Instruction or operation depending on the type of Custody Operation.
Feedback Transmission a communication from a receiving settlement system to a delivering settlement system
notifying the delivering settlement system of the status of each proposed delivery Instruction, and the time of the
acc
Transmission.
Free of Payment Delivery Without Matching Instruction
require matching.

an internal or Bridge delivery Instruction which does not

Fund an investment company which has issued shares or a management company, trustee or similar entity
representing or acting in respect of a pool of assets represented by Units. References to a Fund also refer to such
Fund's agent(s) and Transfer Agent(s). A Fund is referred to as an issuer of securities in all sections other than the
FundSettle Section of these Operating Procedures.
FundSettle Browser

a computer software application providing browser access to FundSettle.

FundSettle Instruction an Instruction from a Participant to Euroclear Bank in respect of FundSettle services.
FundSettle Instructions include, but are not limited to, all account opening forms, orders and Instructions set out in the
FundSettle International - service description.
FundSettle Order Routing Service
FundSettle Nominee
System.

the service described in the FundSettle Section of these Operating Procedures.

a Euroclear nominee that is used to register Fund Shares that are held in the Euroclear

Fund Shares securities representing the rights of investors in a Fund company or in a pool of assets managed by a
Fund management company. Fund Shares include both shares and Units issued by a Fund.
H2H (file transfer) A connectivity tool which allows you to send all your instructions in a single file directly to the
FundSettle platform through an automated interface with your own system. For more information, please consult our
website.

February 2016

Page 171

EXE50173

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Home Market the market where the issuer of a security has deposited such sec
Other Settlement System.
Home Market Security
Input Deadline
Instructions

a Multi-

the time on a Business Day by which we must have received your Instructions.

all instructions as set out in the Euroclear Documentation including cancellation Instructions.

Issued Outstanding Amount (IOA) with respect to each debt security issued in NGN form the total remaining
indebtedness (other than interest) of the issuer as determined from time to time by the records of Euroclear Bank and
Clearstream; where relevant, the IOA is the result of the product between the nominal amount and the pool factor of the
security.
Issuer ICSD Agreement

The agreement that must be entered into before any NGNs can be accepted by the ICSDs.

KIID the Key Investor Information Document introduced by the Directive 2009/65/EC of the European Parliament and
of the Council of 13 July 2009 on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to

The KIID provides the following information:
identification of the Collective Investment Scheme
short description of the investment objectives and policy
historical performance or, if applicable, profitability scenarios
costs and expenses associated
risk/reward profile of the investment.
Management Committee
manage our affairs.

our management committee which has received authority from the Board in order to

Market Value the market value of securities as determined by us on a given Business Day for the purposes of the
SLB Program. Such determinations will be conclusive and binding on each Lender and Borrower. This value is
determined on the basis of information obtained from independent sources including, but not limited to:
the offered price obtained from the lead manager of the issue
the offered prices obtained from recognised market participants in the issue traded for settlement in the
Euroclear System
the cost of a buy-in (passed on to the Lender) under the rules of any relevant regulated securities market
other outstanding issues with a similar credit rating, maturity and characteristics.
Multi-listed Securities securities listed on, or traded in, more than one stock exchange and therefore eligible for
settlement in more than one Other Settlement System.
Net Asset Value the net price of a Fund Share. This is calculated by dividing the total value of the Fund by the total
number of outstanding Fund Shares.
Newly-Issued Securities securities, including a new tranche of an existing issuance, during the period from the
Closing Date up to the second Business Day after the Closing Date.
Non-cash Distribution any additional securities, rights or other entitlements accepted for deposit in the Euroclear
System, distributed by an issuer, or any agent on behalf of an issuer, on any issue of securities.
Odd Lot(s)

February 2016

quantities of securities other than the minimum number of securities usually traded in a local market.

Page 172

EXE50174

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

Online Market Guides a web based resource providing specific legal and operational information for individual
domestic markets. This resource can be found on our website www.euroclear.com
Optional Bridge Settlement Processing the Processing on each Business Day as agreed by Euroclear and
Clearstream for Bridge Settlements of securities transactions where you have included the Daylight Indicator in your
Instructions and the Clearstream customer has included an equivalent flag in its instructions to Clearstream.
a Processing for securities transactions or operations with
related cash movements and confirmations from Depositories and Other Settlement Systems, where the execution of
transactions or operations is simulated, but such transactions or operations are executed only when we decide to
complete such Processing.
Participant-linked settlement Instructions instructions for which you have completed a specific linking reference
(see Section 5.2.1.7 of these Operating Procedures).
Payment Date

The date on which the Custody Distribution is to take place (cash and/or securities).

Pending Delivery Period
outstanding Borrowing.

a number of Business Days preceding the Settlement Date during which we can recall an

Positioning Conditions conditions which must be met in order for an Instruction or operation to be positioned in
accordance with the relevant services sections.
Pre-Released / Prerelease Newly-Issued Securities held at a Common Safekeeper, Common Depository or at an
entity appointed as Common Depository acting as Specialised Depository that are made available in the Euroclear
System (either directly or via the Bridge) by the issuer during the OSSP normally beginning on the Business Day
preceding the Closing Date for such Newly-Issued Securities.
Processing

the Overnight Securities Settlement Processing and/or the Real-time Processing.

Quick Refund a tax relief process, handled by the withholding agent before withholding tax for a particular Custody
Cash Distribution has been paid to the tax authorities. This process generally results in the excess withholding tax being
refunded within a shorter period of time as compared to refunds received via the standard refund process.
Reala Processing for securities transactions or operations with related cash movements,
cash transactions or operations and confirmations from Depositories, Other Settlement Systems and Cash
Correspondents, where the execution of transactions or operations takes place as soon as the applicable Positioning
Conditions and Settlement Conditions have been met.
The RealOperating Procedures.

-

Real-time Settlement (
internal settlement in FundSettle of transfers between Participants, in accordance with
the rules set out in the 'FundSettle International - service description'. Funds eligible for RTS are identified as such in
the FundSettle funds database.
Record Date the Business Day upon which the relevant amount of securities credited to your Securities Clearance
Account is taken into account in the Euroclear System in order to determine entitlements to the product of Custody
Distributions.
Record-keeping Account an account we open to record Borrowings and Loans in the name of each Borrower and
each Lender on our books. A Record-keeping Account may be divided into different sub-accounts to record different
types of Borrowings or Loans. Each such sub-account may be named a Record-keeping Account but will be considered
for all purposes, except as otherwise set forth in the Operating Procedures, as being part of one single and indivisible
Record-keeping Account.
When referred to, the Record-keeping Account of a Lender means the Record-keeping Account associated with the
Securities Clearance Account to which loaned securities were debited, and the Record-keeping Account of a Borrower
means the Record-keeping Account associated with the Securities Clearance Account to which Borrowed Securities
were credited.

February 2016

Page 173

EXE50175

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Relief at Source a tax relief process by which there is a reduction of, or exemption from, withholding tax applied at
the time when a Custody Cash Distribution is paid.
Remote Market
System.

a market other than the Home Market where Multi-listed Securities are settled in an Other Settlement

Remote Market Security
System.

a Multi-

Securities Lending and Borrowing (SLB) Process a process during which your Instructions for Lending and
Borrowing are considered and in which the Lendable Position of each Lender and the Borrowing needs of each
Borrower are calculated and, where relevant, related Instructions are generated.
Security Code

either the Common Code or ISIN used to identify an issue of securities.

Settlement Conditions
Settlement Date
Start Date
begin.

the conditions that must be met in order for a settlement Instruction to be executed.

the date of settlement set forth in the contract between the parties to such transaction.

the date recorded in a Borrowing request indicating the Business Day on which the Borrowing should

Statement of Transactions

The official statement of balance for securities you hold in the Euroclear System.

Supplementary Terms and Conditions the Supplementary Terms and Conditions Governing the Lending and
Borrowing of Securities through Euroclear, as amended or supplemented from time to time.
SWIFT Specification the technical specifications for securities clearance and settlement and custody SWIFT ISO
150222 compliant messages that we publish in the relevant Euroclear Documentation.
Transfer Agent
Triparty Notices

an agent appointed by the Fund to perform certain functions, such as order processing.
all notices as set out in the applicable Triparty Service Agreement and cancellations thereof.

Triparty Service Agreement an agreement between us, acting as triparty agent, you and a Participant, governed by
either:
Repurchase Service Agreement Terms and Conditions and Repurchase Service Agreement Operating
Procedures
Collateral Service Agreement Terms and Conditions and Collateral Service Agreement Operating Procedures
Securities Lending Service Agreement Terms and Conditions and Securities Lending Service Agreement
Operating Procedures
Loan Service Agreement Terms and Conditions and Loan Service Agreement Operating Procedures
Derivative Service Agreement Terms and Conditions and Derivative Service Agreement Operating Procedures
Collateral Allocation Interface Service Agreement Terms and Conditions and Collateral Allocation
Interface Service Agreement Operating Procedures.

Value Date

the date used for the calculation of interest or fees.

Verification Communication a transmission sent by us or Clearstream as a delivering settlement system over the
Bridge to the receiving settlement system. The transmission confirms that the cash countervalue of an accepted delivery
does not exceed the amount of the applicable letter of credit plus the cash countervalue of the next deliveries to be
proposed by the receiving settlement system.

February 2016

Page 174

EXE50176

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

List of terms defined in Sections of the Operating Procedures
Each of the following terms when used in these Operating Procedures has the meaning specified in the Section as set
out below.
Term

Section

Aggregate Cash Account .......................................................................................................................................... 2.2.3.
CBF Eligible Securities........................................................................................................................................ 5.5.1.2.1.
Certification Instruction........................................................................................................................................... 5.3.2.8.
CO (Coupons only) ................................................................................................................................................ 5.3.2.5.
Cross-market Realignment ....................................................................................................................................... 5.2.4.
Effectuation Authorisation ......................................................................................................................................... 5.1.2.
EMX Message System........................................................................................................................................... 5.6.3.3.
End-of-Day SLB Process .................................................................................................................................... 5.5.1.2.1.
EUCLID Administrator......................................................................................................................................... 4.1.2.1.2.
Failed Return Fee .................................................................................................................................................. 5.5.7.1.
Family .................................................................................................................................................................... 5.5.8.2.
Fund Provider ........................................................................................................................................................ 5.6.3.3.
Issuer Memorandum Account ................................................................................................................................... 2.2.6.
Lending Level Monitored Amount........................................................................................................................... 5.5.2.1.
Linked Reimbursement .......................................................................................................................................... 5.5.2.1.
Loan Securities ...................................................................................................................................................... 5.5.1.1.
Lowest Priority ....................................................................................................................................................... 5.2.1.5.
New Issues Cash Account .................................................................................................................................. 5.1.4.1.1.
New Issues Non-Syndicated Distribution Cash Account ..................................................................................... 5.1.4.3.1.
New Issues Non-Syndicated Distribution Securities Clearance Account ............................................................. 5.1.4.3.1.
New Issues Securities Clearance Account .......................................................................................................... 5.1.4.1.1.
Pivot Securities Clearance Account .................................................................................................................... 5.2.2.1.4.
PO (Principal only) ................................................................................................................................................. 5.3.2.5.
Priority.................................................................................................................................................................... 5.2.1.5.
Real-time Securities Lending and Borrowing Processes ..................................................................................... 5.5.1.2.1.
Recall Period ......................................................................................................................................................... 5.5.4.2.
Regular .................................................................................................................................................................. 5.2.1.5.
SLB Eligible Securities ........................................................................................................................................... 5.5.1.5.
SLB Process ....................................................................................................................................................... 5.5.1.2.1.
Specific Participant ................................................................................................................................................... 2.1.2
Specific Regulated Participant .................................................................................................................................. 2.1.2
Standard Long Form Certification .......................................................................................................................... 5.3.2.8.
Standard Participant ................................................................................................................................................. 2.1.2
System-linked Instructions .................................................................................................................................. 5.2.2.1.4.
Top Priority ............................................................................................................................................................ 5.2.1.5.

February 2016

Page 175

EXE50177

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Unit ........................................................................................................................................................................ 5.6.3.3.

February 2016

Page 176

EXE50178

Exhibit E-5

The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Abbreviations
The following abbreviations are used in the Operating Procedures.
A.I.B.D.
BIC

Association of International Bond Dealers, now ISMA.

Bank Identifier Code as defined by I.S.O.

ISIN International Security Identification Number, a code which identifies a specific issue of securities, designed by
ISO (Standard 6166) to be a single global standard identity for each issue. In ISINs allocated by Euroclear Bank and
basic number repeats the Common Code.
ISMA
ISO
OSSP
RTP

International Securities Market Association.
International Organisation for Standardisation.
Overnight Securities Settlement Process
Real-time Processing

February 2016

Page 177

EXE50179

Exhibit E-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXE50180

EXHIBIT F

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
FORM CA-1

Attach as Exhibit F a brief description of any material pending legal proceeding, other than
ordinary and routine litigation incidental to the business, to which the registrant or any of its
subsidiaries is a party or to which any of its or their property is the subject. Include the name of
the court or agency in which the proceeding is pending, the date instituted and the principal
parties thereto, a description of the factual basis alleged to underlie the proceeding and the
relief sought. Include similar information as to any such proceeding known to be contemplated
by governmental agencies.
*

*

*

Please see Exhibit F-1.

F-1
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EXHIBIT G

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
FORM CA-1

Attach as Exhibit G copies of all contracts with any national securities exchange, national
securities association or clearing agency or securities market for which the registrant acts as a
clearing agency or performs clearing agency functions.
*

*

*

Euroclear Bank provides the Clearing Agency Activities to its U.S. Participants, and not to any
national securities exchange, national securities association or clearing agency or securities
market (“Described Entities”) that is not acting as a participant for those services.
However, it is possible that Clearing Agency Activities can have an impact on certain Described
Entities, either because they provide services to Euroclear Bank that support Euroclear Bank’s
ability to offer the Clearing Agency Activities to its U.S. Participants (such as acting as
Euroclear Bank’s depository in the U.S. for U.S. Equity Securities) or as a participant in the
Euroclear System that may interact with U.S. Participants who are using the Clearing Agency
Activities (such as accepting Eligible U.S. Government Securities or U.S. Equity Securities from
U.S. Participants as collateral). Therefore, attached to this Exhibit G are agreements with
national securities exchanges, clearing agencies and securities markets that are registered in such
capacity (or a similar capacity) with the Commission or the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission (“CFTC”), and may interact with the Clearing Agency Activities pursuant to a
contract with Euroclear Bank.
Exhibit G-1

The Depository Trust Company Participant’s Agreement

Exhibit G-2

The Depository Trust Company Special Undertakings Agreement

Exhibit G-3

The Depository Trust Company Addendum to Membership Questionnaire,
DTC – CSD Participant

Exhibit G-4

JPMorgan Chase Bank Appointment of Settling Bank and Settling Bank
Agreement

In addition to the foregoing, Euroclear Bank has entered into agreements that have been attached
or otherwise described in Exhibit G-5 through Exhibit G-14.
Euroclear Bank also has arrangements with securities market infrastructure providers that are not
registered with the Commission or the CFTC as such. These arrangements are not provided as
part of this application. This Exhibit G does not include agreements in which Euroclear Bank is
not a party, including agreements that involve an affiliate of Euroclear Bank.

G-1
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EXHIBIT H

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
FORM CA-1

Attach as Exhibit H a balance sheet and statement of income and expenses, and all notes or
schedules thereto of registrant, as of registrant’s most recent fiscal year for which such
information is available, certified by an independent accountant. (If certified financial
information is not available, uncertified financial information should be submitted).
*

*

*

Attached as Exhibit H-1 are Euroclear Bank’s stand-alone annual financial statements for fiscal
year 2015.

H-1
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Euroclear Bank
Stand-alone financial statements
at 31 December 2015

EXH10001

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Directors' report
The directors of Euroclear Bank SA/NV (the ‘company’) are pleased to present their report, together with the audited financial statements of
the company for the year ended 31 December 2015.

Principal activities
Euroclear Bank provides settlement and related securities services for cross-border transactions involving domestic and international
bonds, equities, investment funds and derivatives.
The company is based in Brussels and is part of the Euroclear group. The Euroclear group is the world's leading provider of post-trade
services. The group provides settlement, safekeeping and servicing of domestic and cross-border securities, with asset classes covered
including bonds, equities, derivatives and investment funds. The Euroclear group includes the International Central Securities Depositary
(ICSD), Euroclear Bank, based in Brussels, as well as the domestic Central Securities Depositaries (CSDs) Euroclear Belgium, Euroclear
Finland, Euroclear France, Euroclear Nederland, Euroclear Sweden and Euroclear UK & Ireland. Euroclear Bank is the only credit institution
in the Euroclear group. Euroclear SA/NV provides system development and support services to the other companies of the group.
Euroclear plc is the holding company which owns, directly or indirectly, the entire issued share capital of these companies.
Euroclear Bank SA/NV is rated AA+ by Fitch Ratings and AA by Standard & Poor’s, with stable outlook. It operates two branches in Hong
Kong and Krakow.
Euroclear Bank’s branch in Krakow, Euroclear Bank SA/NV (Spółka Akcyjna) - Oddział w Polsce, officially opened in January 2013. By the
end of 2015, it had grown to over 400 employees who serve our global client base. The Krakow branch will continue to grow over the
coming years, providing a dual-office arrangement with Euroclear Bank’s existing operations in Belgium.
With more than 100 employees, Euroclear Bank SA/NV (Hong Kong Branch) is an important contributor to client satisfaction levels in Asia.
Through the Hong Kong office, we are able to provide clients with a global service offering, despite the time zone difference with our
headquarters in Europe.
On 26 September 2014, Euroclear SA/NV and The Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation (DTCC) became owners of DTCC-Euroclear
Global Collateral Ltd, a joint venture shared equally between both shareholders, specialised in Collateral services (i.e. Margin Transit
services and Collateral Management services). Euroclear Bank will provide operating services to the joint venture.
In June 2015, Euroclear Bank exercised its optional redemption rights on all of its Upper Tier 2 note with Euroclear Finance 2 at base
redemption price. At the same time, Euroclear Finance 2 redeemed the outstanding Hybrid Tier 1 instrument issued by Euroclear Finance 2
on the Luxembourg stock market. Subsequently, Euroclear Finance 2 was liquidated in December 2015.

Business review
Our strategy to support the evolving capital markets
Euroclear is committed to supporting its clients in an operating environment that is being shaped by two major trends. First, market
authorities and regulators, particularly in Europe, have played an increasingly active role in defining capital markets since the last financial
crisis. Secondly, over the medium term, globalisation continues to be a major driver of economic growth.
Our ambition remains to reduce risk and complexity for the market as well as reducing clients’ cost and improving operating efficiency. The
group continues to invest in regulation-driven initiatives that ensure compliance with the market infrastructure regulatory framework and
foster open access. Furthermore, we continue to make the necessary investments to ensure our cyber-resilience, as evidenced in the risk
section of this report.
Clients and other market participants are seeking greater access to liquidity and collateral mobility, and the operational benefits of increased
process automation. We continue to invest in developing products and services that fulfil these evolving requirements.
Investing in our European franchise
Europe is becoming a single marketplace as a result of a broad range of regulations that impact every facet of its financial markets and, in
particular, through the development of a Capital Markets Union (CMU). The post-trade sector has already taken some important steps
towards becoming a single market, with the new CSD Regulation providing a single, pan-European rulebook for the sector, while the launch
of the ECB’s Target2-Securities platform will provide a single settlement environment for the Eurozone.
The longer-term effects of the many new regulations that have been implemented since 2008 continue to drive the operating environment.
The cost of regulatory compliance and the de-leveraging of balance sheets have spurred the quest for further operating efficiencies and
cost savings. This, in turn, is driving market participants to consolidate and rationalise market access, and embrace services that help
realise latent efficiencies.
At the same time, authorities have been playing a more active role as market participants since the financial crisis. Most notably, the ECB
continued to undertake its quantitative easing programme, while moving interest rates beyond their historic low levels and into negative
territory.
These unprecedented developments, along with continued historically low interest rates and meagre economic growth in Europe, have
proven a further challenge to clients, prompting many to adapt their approach to funding and collateral management activities.


Capital Markets Union

On 30 September 2015, the European Commission published its Action Plan for the CMU. The plan sets out a wide range of steps that aim
to remove barriers between investors and businesses, through better integration of Europe’s capital markets. In addition, the Commission
began an important review of the cumulative impact of recent legislation.

EXH10002

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Although the post-trade environment is not the central focus of the plan, there are potential implications for the sector in two core areas.
First, the Commission will gather evidence on the main barriers to the cross-border distribution of investment funds. Secondly, it will take
forward previous work to clarify securities ownership and conflict of law rules. Euroclear fully supports the Commission’s plans to efficiently
link savings with growth, while enhancing financial stability.


CSD regulation

CSD Regulation (CSDR) not only introduces a complete review and standardisation of regulation that applies to (I)CSDs in the European
Union, but also standardises settlement cycles and settlement discipline procedures across Europe.
It is also anticipated that (I)CSDs’ capital requirements will significantly increase under CSDR. In all likelihood, the constraint that Euroclear
Bank will face under CSDR will not exceed its current Pillar II requirements, even considering a conservative view. As a result, we believe
that the company already complies with the capital requirements stemming from CSDR as of 31 December 2015.
In 2016, CSDR will be a major focus for the group as the Euroclear (I)CSDs will apply for authorisation under the new regulation. CSDR will
also require changes by our clients to comply with record keeping requirements, in particular. The introduction of standardised settlement
discipline and buy-in regimes across Europe will occur in mid-2018. Euroclear is well advanced with its CSDR implementation projects and
detailed discussions with regulators are underway.


TARGET2-Securities

The launch of the TARGET2-Securities (T2S) platform will significantly alter the European post-trade landscape. In June 2015, the first
wave of Eurozone CSDs successfully migrated to T2S.
In the T2S environment, Euroclear will provide the same level of asset servicing across asset classes, regardless of the service access
option and the asset location. The group will offer a range of harmonised services across all T2S markets, despite the continuing coexistence of varying market practices.


Optimising pan-European liquidity and collateral management

The investments that we are making in our European franchise are aimed at helping clients to further optimise their liquidity across
European markets.
We have already completed a number of investments to increase interoperability between Euroclear Bank and the ESES CSDs. Once the
ESES CSDs’ migration to T2S has been completed, Euroclear’s clients will benefit from access to both global commercial and European
central bank liquidity, a unique proposition that will enable clients to improve management of their short-term liquidity requirements.
In addition, €GCPlus, which successfully launched in 2014, enables clients to manage their medium-term funding requirements using
standardised baskets of securities, complementing the global collateral management services offered through Euroclear Bank.
Realising opportunities in the global capital markets
As an open financial market infrastructure, Euroclear supports the evolving requirements of participants as they look to benefit from the
opportunities created by globalisation and an increasingly interconnected global economy.


Global collateral management

Financial market participants are increasingly demanding collateral that can be mobilised across borders and time zones. With new global
regulations in the un-cleared, over-the-counter (OTC) derivative market coming into force in 2016, demand for collateral is poised to
accelerate in the years ahead.
A key tenet of our strategy has been to support the financial market's requirement for a neutral, inter-operable utility to source, mobilise and
segregate such collateral. This led us to launch the Euroclear Collateral Highway in 2012, the world’s first open architecture global
infrastructure for collateral management.
The Collateral Highway provides a comprehensive solution for managing collateral, offering clients a complete view of exposures across the
full spectrum of asset classes. In addition to more traditional collateral management functions (typically repos, securities lending, derivatives
and access to central bank liquidity), our range of collateral management solutions includes dedicated services for corporate treasurers,
and a specialised equity financing service. By the end of 2015, average daily collateralised outstandings on the Collateral Highway reached
€1,068 billion, up 20% on the prior year.
Our joint venture with the Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation (DTCC), DTCC-Euroclear GlobalCollateral Ltd, is connecting two of the
largest pools of collateral to provide a truly global, end-to-end collateral management solution. By leveraging our European OTC derivative
solutions, we will enable the automatic transfer and segregation of collateral, through DTCC-Euroclear GlobalCollateral, based on agreed
margin calls relating to OTC derivatives and other collateralised contracts.
In 2016, we will begin to rollout GlobalCollateral’s collateral margin utility, bringing unprecedented operating efficiencies to market
participants and improving the stability and soundness of financial markets.
In addition, we took a further step to consolidate our collateral management offering, through our investment in AcadiaSoft, an industryleading provider of electronic messaging for the OTC derivatives market.


International markets

Across the globe, growth economies are establishing international market infrastructure links to attract foreign investors, to help fund longterm development needs. At the same time, international investors are seeking opportunities to diversify and increase the profitability of
their investments around the world, particularly during a period of historically low yields in Europe and North America.
To this end, we made further progress in bringing benefits to domestic capital markets that might otherwise have more limited access to
global participants, enabling more efficient capital flows while seeking to provide stability in the domestic markets. Over the course of 2015,
a number of banks added ‘Euroclear eligibility’ as a criteria for inclusion in their emerging market bond indices, further illustrating the
strength of our global franchise.

EXH10003

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Asia is widely expected to be a driving force of global economic growth in the coming decades. As an open post-trade infrastructure,
Euroclear is committed to supporting the growth and stability of the region’s financial markets, building on an unwavering presence in Asia
for over 25 years. Euroclear was delighted to be recognised as CSD of the Year in The Asian Banker’s Financial Market Awards 2015.
During the course of 2015, we established a partnership with the China Construction Bank in support of the offshore Renminbi capital
market.
Our increased focus on growing the Asia Pacific franchise was demonstrated by Frédéric Hannequart’s relocation to Asia in his continuing
roles as Chairman of Euroclear Bank and Euroclear UK & Ireland, and the group’s Chief Business Development Officer. The group also
established a new position of Head of Government Relations and Strategy for Asia, based in Hong Kong. These moves allow us to further
develop the open and collaborative approach that has helped the group become a trusted and relevant partner for many of the world’s
authorities and market infrastructures.
We made further progress in strengthening our franchise around the world, with continued success in bringing ‘Euroclearability’ to domestic
capital markets. We took an important step by reaching agreement with Indian autorities to provide access to India’s government bonds
through our platform. We also supported Mexico in the launch of a corporate bonds asset class, Cebures, following the setup of that
market's link to Euroclear in late 2014.


Global Funds

Funds are increasingly the means by which investors are choosing to participate in international markets, and a way for issuers to efficiently
access a global investor base.
Through its expanding network of funds markets, Euroclear is establishing itself as the place for funds, providing a single entry point for the
effective distribution of cross-border, offshore and domestic funds.
In early 2016, we launched Euroclear FundsPlace, our new umbrella brand for our fund solutions. Our range of trade and post-trade
services for funds is fully automated, to drive out the cost, risks and complexity associated with the manual processing of fund trades.
These services include order routing, account opening, settlement and asset servicing, providing access to a network of over 900 fund
administrators.
In Europe, we are now one of the largest providers of fund processing services in Europe, with over 12.7 million orders routed through our
platforms in 2015. Our fund services have continued to grow in the Swedish market, following the launch in 2014 of a link from Euroclear
Sweden to FundSettleTM. In the UK, we have been supporting clients in achieving compliance with the new Clients Asset Sourcebook
regulations for their own client reporting.
In 2015, we further expanded our network outside of Europe, opening an account with Hong Kong’s Central Securities Depositary, the
Central Moneymarkets Unit. This opening coincided with a decision by Hong Kong and China’s regulatory bodies to allow eligible Hong
Kong-domiciled funds to be sold to retail investors in China. Qualifying Chinese funds will also be available to the retail investor base in
Hong Kong. As a result, Euroclear Bank clients will be able to access China-domiciled funds through FundSettle, as well as Hong Kongdomiciled funds.
In addition, working closely with the China Construction Bank, the group supported the launch of the first ever RMB-denominated money
market international ETF, listed in London in March 2015. This was followed in June by the first in mainland Europe, listed in Paris.
We also made further progress in supporting existing users of the international ETF structure in 2015. BlackRock, the world’s largest
provider of ETFs, was the inaugural issuer of international ETFs in 2013. With investors from across European markets benefitting from the
simplified issuance structure, BlackRock migrated another 20 ETFs to the international form, in the first ever corporate action of its type.


Simplifying the client experience

Clients around the world expect a user-friendly client experience, and we continue to meet this demand through the growth of our
EasyWayTM communication tool. With the launch of new corporate action and settlement functionality in the first quarter, as well as a new
more user-friendly and mobile compatible web interface, client uptake for EasyWayTM increased substantially in 2015. There are now over
300 clients using the service, with users ranging from investment banks to corporate treasury teams.
Launched in 2012, in close collaboration with many of our clients, EasyWayTM allows users to work in real time through dashboards, alerts
and intuitive navigation. Over the coming year, we plan to further enhance the settlement and corporate actions dashboards, as well as
additional collateral management features through EasyWayTM, to create an unparalleled digital client experience.
Operating highlights
Euroclear Bank delivered robust business performance in 2015, a year that is characterised by increased activity levels leading to higher
revenue and slight increase in operating expenses.
The value of securities held for Euroclear Bank clients at the end of 2015 rose by 5% to €12.4 trillion compared to €11.8 trillion in 2014.
The turnover, or the value of securities transactions settled, reached €442.6 trillion in 2015, up by 12% compared to €394.6 trillion in 2014.
The number of netted transactions settled in the Euroclear Bank amounted to 83.3 million in 2015, a 11% increase compared with the 75.2
million reported in 2014.
The average daily value of collateral provision outstanding at the end of 2015 was €511 billion, a 14% increase compared to €450 billion at
the end of 2014. The growth in collateral provision outstanding was sustained throughout 2015, reflecting strong needs from market
participants to ensure high levels of efficiency when switching from unsecured to secured activity, in line with new regulatory requirements.
Average overnight cash deposits stood at €25.3 billion, an increase of 23% compared to €20.5 billion in 2014. Year-end cash deposits
stood at €20.7 billion compared to €23.4 billion the previous year.

EXH10004

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Key business parameters
Euroclear Bank SA/NV’s financial performance is mainly influenced by the following parameters:

Net fee and commission income is mainly a function of the value of securities deposited, the number of settlement transactions
and the daily value of collateral provision outstanding. The value of bonds is based on nominal value whilst for equities, their
market value is taken into consideration.

Interest income stems principally from Euroclear Bank’s clients’ cash balances invested partially in overnight deposits and in
money market short term securities and from the investment of Euroclear Bank’s capital, together with retained earnings.

Administrative expenses include staff costs, depreciation and amortization as well as other operating expenses. Administrative
expenses are impacted to a certain level by business volume levels as well as by inflation.
Financial performance highlights
The detailed results for the year are set out on page 10 of the financial statements.
Net interest income (interest and similar income less interest and similar charges) amounted to €122.8 million, an increase of 22%
compared to last year due to high level of average client’s balances invested partially in short term securities.
Net commission income (commissions received less commissions paid) increased by 5% to €569.1 million in 2015 driven by higher
business volumes.
Other income amounted to €9.0 million in 2015 compared to €8.7 million in 2014.
General administrative expenses grew marginally to €428.2 million, a 3% increase compared to last year resulting from higher activity and
investments in growth initiatives while maintaining a constant focus on cost management.
Current profit before taxes was €232 million, 24% higher compared to last year, reflecting higher operating income which exceeds the slight
increase of administrative expenses reported end 2015.
Taxes: The effective tax rate slightly decreased in 2015 to 29% compared to 30% in the prior year.
Profit for the year: The profit after tax for the year ended 31 December 2015 reached €164.5 million, compared with a profit of €131.9 million
in the prior year.
Balance sheet: Total assets stood at €19,756 million on 31 December 2015, down €4,198 million compared to previous year. Loans and
deposits decreased by 14% and 19% to €17,401 million and €17,831 million, respectively. Total shareholders’ equity increased to €1,447
million compared to €1,428 million in 2014.
Share capital remained unchanged at the end of 2015 at €285 million represented by 70,838 shares.
Key performance indicators
Net fee income margin (net fee income minus administrative expenses compared to net fee income) has increased from 22.5% to 24.8% in
2015 reflecting continued control of expenses, and growth of fee income.
Operating margin (profit before tax compared to operating income) has increased from 29.0% in 2014 to 33.1% in 2015.
Unit cost ratio (administrative expenses compared to the average value of securities held) has improved from 0.37 bps in 2014 to 0.35 bps
in 2015 resulting from material evolution of depot in 2015 which exceeds the slight increase of administrative expense.
Return on equity (net profit compared to average shareholder’s equity) has improved from 9.2% in 2014 to 11.4% in 2015 as a result of the
higher net earnings and almost stable capital base.
Asset performance (net profit compared to total assets) increased slightly from 52bps in 2014 to 55bps in 2015.
Related parties
Euroclear Bank is controlled by Euroclear SA/NV, incorporated in Belgium, which owns more than 99.9% of its shares. The ultimate
parentof the group is Euroclear plc, incorporated in the United Kingdom. Euroclear Bank enters into several transactions with its parent
companies as well as with other entities in the Euroclear Group, as described below. All transactions are at arm’s length.
Bank accounts and term deposits
The company provides banking services to other companies in the Euroclear group. Deposits are remunerated at market rates of interest.
Securities settlement and custody services
In its normal course of business as an International Central Securities Depository, Euroclear Bank provides banking services to, and
provides and receives settlement and custody services to and from, the Euroclear group’s Central Securities Depositories.Terms and
conditions applying to these depository links are the same as those applying to depositories outside the Euroclear group.
Software development, data centre and support services
Euroclear Bank has entered into agreements with Euroclear SA/NV and the group’s CSD subsidiaries, whereby Euroclear SA/NV provides
software development, data centre and a variety of non-operational and administrative support services to the (I)CSDs. Furthermore, Calar
Belgium SA, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Euroclear Bank, leases premises in Brussels to Euroclear SA/NV at market rates.
Licence agreements
Under a licence agreement, Euroclear plc has granted to Euroclear Bank the right to operate the Euroclear System and the right to use and
sub-licence the Euroclear trademark. The agreement may be terminated by either party with 3 years notice. Euroclear Bank pays Euroclear
plc a royalty fee computed on certain qualifying revenues. Euroclear Bank has granted sub-licences to other companies in the group that
use the Euroclear trademark, the rates depending on the use of the trademark by the sub-licencee.

EXH10005

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Post balance sheet events
There are no important post-balance events to report for the company and its subsidiaries.

Information on circumstances that might materially influence the development of the consolidated
perimeter
No circumstances occurred that might materially influence the development of the company.

Research and development
The company has continued investing in research and development. These investments are linked to product and services development
activities as well as performance and resilience of our systems. Euroclear Bank also continues investing in market research in line with its
mission to provide increasingly commoditised market infrastructure services.

Risk management in Euroclear
Risk management framework and governance
Euroclear has always tried to nurture a culture that supports a high standard of business ethics and risk awareness. We base our Enterprise
Risk Management framework (ERM) on relevant market and regulatory standards. The ERM framework captures the key risks in the group.
To manage these risks, Management develops a Euroclear risk appetite consistent with Euroclear’s short- and long term strategy. It
ensures the risk appetite is appropriately communicated and monitored in the organisation through limits, processes and controls.
Approved Board policies define the overall framework. The full roll-out of the framework, along a three lines of defence model, gives all
stakeholders comfort that risks in delivering settlement and custody services, as well as settlement-related banking activities, are well
managed.
A clear governance defines accountability for identifying, monitoring and controlling the risks related to the business. Sufficient measures
are in place to ensure the Risk Management, Compliance and Internal Audit Divisions are independent from the business lines they
monitor. These functions operate independently from each other but where relevant, do coordinate initiatives to ensure proper coverage
whilst minimising overlap.
The first line of defence is the main provider of assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness of the control environment to Senior
Management and Board. The first line of defence provides this assurance through supporting documents and processes, like regular selfassessments, ‘positive assurance reports’ and ‘assurance maps’. The assurance maps are complemented by Risk Management (2nd line
of defence) and Internal Audit (3rd line of defence), who each, independently from the first line of defence and from each other, add their
opinion and provide their own assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness of the control environment.
This regular reporting by the three lines of defence allows a frequent, effective and comprehensive monitoring of the control environment. It
includes and confronts the views of the three lines of defence, where Risk Management plays its role as an independent challenger to the
first line of defence and where Internal Audit provides comprehensive assurance based on the highest level of independence and
objectivity.
Risks affecting the company
Euroclear Bank faces operational risk (the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from
external events). Effective monitoring, appropriate reporting and the maintenance of a database of operational risks containing more than a
decade of data enable us to manage operational risk well. Cyber is an operational risk high on the agenda. Being a market infrastructure,
the integrity, confidentiality and availability of our and our clients’ data, and the continuous availability of our services, is very important.
Euroclear is designated as critical national infrastructure in seven countries. Therefore as security and resilience is a key aspect of our
approach to operational risk we developed and tested comprehensive processes in all entities to ensure the security and continuous
availability of business-critical services, including effective management response to incidents and crises. All locations have appropriate
security and contingency arrangements for recovery from workplace disruptions, and have three data centres to sustain operations in the
event of a local and regional- scale disaster. Disaster recovery response capability is proven through regular switches of activity between
the primary data centres. We also regularly exercise and test our operational and management response and provide adequate training at
all levels of the organisation.
Financial risks are borne by Euroclear Bank in its role as single-purpose settlement bank.
As a settlement bank, Euroclear Bank mainly faces collateralised intra-day credit exposures on its clients. In addition, it runs credit risk
resulting from the intra-day use of a high-quality correspondent network and from short-term placements, mainly by using reverse repos, of
clients’ end-of-day cash positions in the market with high-quality counterparties.
Because liquidity is key for the efficient functioning of Euroclear Bank, it has built a strong framework to ensure smooth day-to-day
operations and a high level of preparedness to cope with unexpected and important liquidity shocks.
A very low level of market risk (interest rate and foreign exchange rate risks only) arises as a by-product of the investment of Euroclear
Bank’s capital (interest rate risk) and future earnings (interest rate and foreign exchange rate risks). There is no trading book. A hedging
strategy was put in place to mitigate interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk.
Compliance
The group concluded a three-year review cycle that reinforced the group-wide ethical and compliance risk management framework that
allows us to adequately identify, monitor and manage the full spectrum of legal and compliance risks. These include, amongst others, fraud,
market abuse and money laundering. In addition, a specific focus has been devoted to re-assess our controls linked to economic sanctions

EXH10006

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

taken by authorities. This framework is supported by a major communication effort (e-learning, case-based compliance tests, etc.) that
undoubtedly increases the awareness of staff on compliance matters.
Supervision and regulation
The National Bank of Belgium and the Financial Services and Markets Authority are the supervisors of Euroclear Bank.
Recovery plan
In line with regulatory rules and guidelines, we prepared recovery plans for Euroclear Bank SA/NV. These plans are re-approved by the
Board of Directors, upon recommendation of the Risk and Audit Committees on a yearly basis. These recovery plans are designed to allow
Euroclear Bank SA/NV to recover its financial health in the face of extreme stress scenarios and thereby avoid going into resolution. To that
aim, they identify and analyse a number of recovery options that the entity could take in order to restore its capital base, liquidity position or
profitability, over a short- to- medium timeframe.
Detailed information on the risks faced by Euroclear, as well as its risk management strategies, policies and processes can be found in
Euroclear’s yearly Pillar 3 report on www.euroclear.com as well as in Note III to the Consolidated financial statements.

Authorised capital
On 24 April 24 2014, the Extraordinary General Meeting decided to renew the authorised capital amount of €350 million for a 5 years
period.

Dividends
The Board is pleased to propose to the Annual General Meeting of shareholders a final ordinary dividend of €145 million (or €2,047 per
ordinary share) of which €100 million (or €1,412 per share) was already paid to shareholders as interim dividend in September 2015. The
remaining €45 million (or €635 per share) will be paid early May 2016.
This dividend evidences that the group stays committed to delivering long-term value to shareholders whilst leaving sufficient means for the
group to fund its activity going forward.

Acquisition of own shares
During the financial year, neither the company nor any directly controlled subsidiary or person acting in his own name but on behalf of the
company or a directly controlled subsidiary of the company acquired any shares of the company.

Conflict of interests
Board members
During 2015, the Board has applied Article 523 of the Companies Code on conflict of interest at its meeting of 12 January 2015. Excerpts of
the minutes of the Board held on that day are reproduced below:
“Approval of the total amount of Management Committee Remuneration
The Chairman noted that Belgian legal requirements provide that the Board should approve the overall compensation of the Management
Committee as reviewed and recommended by the Remuneration Committee. He noted that the members of the Management Committee
present declared an interest in connection with the proposed decision on their remuneration and did not participate in the discussion or the
voting.
The Chairman noted that the proposed remuneration for members of the Management Committee had been set in accordance with the
applicable remuneration policies of the company and the Group. The Remuneration Committee also concluded that the proposal reflects
the individual and collegial commitment and performance of the members of the Management Committee in line with Belgian legal
requirements.
Upon the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee, the Board approved the total amounts for 2014 incentive compensation and
2015 fixed remuneration for the members of the Management Committee.”
The 2014 Incentive Compensation and 2015 Fixed Remuneration for the members of the Management Committee will not exceed 0.26% of
the net operating income of the company in 2014.
Management Committee members
During the financial year, the Management Committee did not take any decision whereby any one of its members had a conflict of interest
within the meaning of Article 524ter of the Belgian Companies Code.

Non-statutory audit services
The amount of fees charged to Euroclear Bank SA/NV and its subsidiaries for non-statutory audit services amounted to €180,000 relating to
the ISAE 3402 report. Further details of fees for audit and non-audit services are provided in Note XXIX of the financial statements.

Publicity of external mandates
Details of the reportable directorship mandates and managerial functions exercised in companies outside the Euroclear group by the
members of the Board and the management are posted on Euroclear’s website.

Individual and collective Committee member skills
All members of the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee, the Nominations and Governance Committee and the Remuneration Committee
are non-executive directors of the Company and at least one member of each of these committees is independent within the meaning of
Article 526ter of the Belgian Companies Code. The committees have the correct knowledge base and skills among their members and each

EXH10007

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

member has the adequate personal attributes in order for each committee to fulfil its role efficiently.

Audit Committee
In 2015, the Audit Committee (AC) was comprised of two non-executive directors of the Company and as from October is also now
supported by an observer. All members of the AC collectively have in-depth knowledge of the financial markets and services and also
collectively have an understanding of the company’s business, accounting and audit matters. At least one member is competent in
accounting and/or audit matters.

Risk Committee
In 2015, the Risk Committee (RC) was comprised of two non-executive directors of the Company and as from October is also now
supported by an observer. The RC assists and advises the Board of Directors in its oversight of the Company’s risk management
governance structure, risk tolerance, appetite and strategy and key risks as well as the processes for monitoring and mitigating such risks.
The RC members have the skills and experience to be able to understand and oversee such risk strategy, risk appetite and risk tolerance
of the Company.

Nominations and Governance Committee
In 2015, the Nominations and Governance Committee (NGC) was comprised of two non-executive directors of the Company. The NGC is
composed in such a way so as to be able to properly and independently advise the Board of Directors on the composition and the
functioning of the Board and Board Committees of the Company and, in particular, on the fit and proper character of their members.

Remuneration Committee
In 2015, the Remuneration Committee (RemCom) was comprised of two non-executive directors of the Company, supported by an
advisor who is the Group Chief Executive Officer. He attends meetings upon invitation of the RemCom Chairman when necessary. The
RemCom is composed in such a way to be able to properly and independently advise the Board of Directors on remuneration policies and
practices as a whole taking into account the risks and liquidity needs of the Company.
By order of the Board

Frederic Hannequart
Chairman of the Board
29 February 2016

EXH10008

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Euroclear Bank Board and Committees - composition
as at 31 December 2015

EXH10009

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Balance sheet

For the year ended 31 December

(€'000)
Assets

Notes

I. Cash in hand, balances w ith central banks and post offices
II. Governm ent securities eligible for refinancing at the central bank

2015

2014

-

539

1,343,481

2,542,486

III. Am ounts receivable from credit institutions
A. On demand
B. Other amounts receivable (at fixed term or period of notice)

I

13,484,627
1,833,978
11,650,649

15,937,366
2,415,968
13,521,398

IV. Am ounts receivable from custom ers

II

3,968,812

4,280,116

V. Bonds and other fixed-incom e securities
A. Of public issuers
B. Of other issuers

III

809,729
566,610
243,119

1,027,948
677,860
350,088

VI. Corporate shares and other variable-incom e securities

IV

-

-

VII. Financial fixed assets
A. Participating interests in affiliated enterprises
B. Participating interests in other associated enterprises
C. Other shares or stakes constituting financial fixed assets
D. Subordinated loans w ith affiliated enterprises and w ith other associated
enterprises

V, VI

31,242
23,200
8,042
-

35,127
27,699
7,428
-

VIII. Form ation expenses and intangible fixed assets

VII

13

12

IX. Tangible fixed assets

VIII

2,998

3,838

-

-

X. Ow n shares
XI. Other assets

IX

15,765

18,779

XII. Deferred charges and accrued incom e

X

99,697

107,783

19,756,364

23,953,994

Total assets

The accompanying Notes form part of these financial statements.

EXH10010

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Balance sheet (continued)
For the year ended 31 December

(€'000)
Liabilities

Notes

I. Am ounts payable to credit institutions
A. On demand
B. Resulting from refinancing by rediscounting of trade bills
C. Other amounts payable at fixed term or period of notice

XI

12,957,520
12,552,002
405,518

18,289,035
16,620,153
1,668,882

II. Am ounts payable to custom ers
A. Savings deposits
B. Other amounts payable
1. On demand
2. At fixed term or period of notice
3. Resulting from refinancing by rediscounting of trade bills

XII

5,104,978
5,104,978
4,634,310
470,668
-

3,888,694
3,888,694
3,799,183
89,511
-

III. Debt securities in issue
A. Bills and bonds in circulation
B. Other

XIII

-

-

IV. Other am ounts payable

XIV

159,573

160,272

V. Accrued charges and deferred incom e

XV

81,538

79,784

5,714
1,065
4,649
-

6,109
889
5,220
-

-

-

-

102,505

1,447,041

1,427,595

285,497
285,497
-

285,497
285,497
-

558,008

558,008

-

-

94,047
28,549
65,498

94,047
28,549
65,498

509,489

490,043

19,756,364

23,953,994

VI. A. Provisions for risks and charges
1. Pensions and similar obligations
2. Fiscal charges
3. Other risks and charges
B. Deferred taxes

XVI

VII. Fund for general banking risks
VIII. Subordinated liabilities

XVII

Shareholders' equity
IX. Capital
A. Called up share capital
B. Uncalled capital
X. Share prem ium account
XI. Revaluation reserve
XII. Reserves
A. Legal reserve
B. Non available reserve
1. For ow n shares
2. Others
C. Untaxed reserve
D. Available reserve
XIII. Profit (loss (-)) carried forw ard
Total liabilities

XVIII

2015

2014

The accompanying Notes form part of these financial statements.

EXH10011

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Off-balance sheet items
For the year ended 31 December

(€'000)
Off-balance sheet item s

Notes

I. Contingent liabilities
A. Unnegotiated acceptances
B. Guarantees in the nature of credit substitutes
C. Other guarantees
D. Documentary credits
E. Assets pledged by secured guarantees on behalf of third parties

XXII

18,576,063
18,576,063
-

11,231,337
11,133,237
98,100
-

II. Com m itm ents w hich can give rise to a credit risk
XXII
A. Firm commitments to make funds available
B. Commitments in respect of spot purchases of transferable securities or other assets
C. Available margin under confirmed credit lines
D. Commitments to underw rite and place securities
E. Repurchase commitments resulting from imperfect repurchase agreements

2,195,948
2,195,948
-

8,403,579
8,403,579
-

12,550,755,920
12,550,755,920

12,080,967,521
12,080,967,521

-

-

III. Assets entrusted to the institution
A. Assets held on an organised trusteeship basis
B. Assets in safe custody and under similar arrangements
IV. To be paid upon corporate shares and units

2015

2014

Under the terms of the Euroclear Securities Lending and Borrowing Programme, Euroclear Bank provides a guarantee to securities lenders
whereby if a securities borrower is unable to return the securities, Euroclear Bank guarantees the lender to receive replacement securities
or their cash equivalent. A similar guarantee applies to Euroclear Bank's GC Access Programme. The guarantee is valued at market value
of the loan securities plus accrued interest. Euroclear Bank’s policy is that all securities borrowings are covered by collateral pledged by the
borrowing banks and customers.
The accompanying Notes form part of these financial statements.

EXH10012

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Profit and loss statement
As at 31 December

(€'000)
Incom e statem ent
(list form)

Notes

I. Interest and sim ilar incom e
Of w hich : from fixed-income securities

XXIII

II. Interest and sim ilar charges (-)

2015

2014

149,000
(4,203)

124,106
1,583

(26,216)

(23,257)

III. Incom e from variable-incom e securities
A. Corporate shares and other variable-income securities
B. Participating interests in affiliated enterprises
C. Participating interests in associated enterprises
D. Other shares or stakes representing financial fixed assets

XXIII

39
39

1,225
1,007
218

IV. Com m issions received
A. Brokerage and similar commissions
B. Management, advisory and safekeeping services
C. Other commissions received

XXIII

977,219
269,765
494,565
212,889

916,023
268,844
453,035
194,144

(408,094)

(378,706)

V. Com m issions paid
VI. Profit from (loss on) financial operations
A. Foreign exchange transactions and transactions in securities and other financial
instruments
B. Sale of investment securities and similar operations

XXIII

VII. General adm inistrative expenses
A. Wages and salaries, social charges and pensions
B. Other administrative expenses
VIII. Depreciation and am ounts w ritten off (-) on form ation expenses and
intangible and tangible fixed assets
IX. Write-back of am ounts w ritten off (am ounts w ritten off (-)) on am ounts
receivable and w rite-back provisions (provision (-))for headings "I.
Contingent liabilities" and "II. Com m itm ents w hich can give rise to a credit
risk" in the off-balance sheet section

3,771
3,771

1,453
847

-

606

(428,209)
(119,736)
(308,473)

(416,627)
(120,398)
(296,229)

(1,409)

(1,135)

(288)

X. Write-back of am ounts w ritten off (am ounts w ritten off(-))on the
investm ent portfolio of bonds, shares and other fixed-incom e or variableincom e securities
XI. Uses and w rite-back of provisions for risks and charges other than
those referred to in heading "I. Contingent liabilities"and "II. Com m itm ents
w hich can give rise to a credit risk" in the off-balance sheet section

XII. Provisions for risks and charges other than those covered in headings
"I. Contingent liabilities" and "II. Com m itm ents w hich can give rise to a
credit risk" in the off-balance sheet section (-)

-

-

224

140

(1,764)

XIII. Transfers from (Appropriation to) the fund for general banking risks

202

(4,343)

-

-

XIV. Other operating incom e

XXIII

4,696

6,050

XV. Other operating charges (-)

XXIII

(37,239)

(37,401)

231,729

187,730

XVI. Current profit (loss) before taxes

The accompanying Notes form part of these financial statements.

EXH10013

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Profit and loss statement (continued)
As at 31 December

(€'000)
Incom e statem ent (continued)
(list form)
XVII. Exceptional incom e
A. Write-back of depreciation and amounts w ritten off on intangible and tangible
fixed assets
B. Write-back of amounts w ritten off on financial fixed assets
C. Write-back of provisions for exceptional risks and charges
D. Capital gains on disposal of fixed assets
E. Other exceptional income
XVIII. Exceptional charges
A. Exceptional depreciation on and amounts w ritten off on formation expenses,
intangible and tangible fixed assets
B. Amounts w ritten off on financial fixed assets
C. Provisions for extraordinary risks and charges
D. Capital losses on disposal of fixed assets
E. Other exceptional charges

Notes

XXV

XXV

2015

2014

513
-

-

513
(39)
(38)

(3)
-

(1)
-

(3)
-

XIX. Profit (Loss (-)) for the year before taxes

232,203

187,727

XIX. Bis. Deferred taxes
A. Transfers to deferred taxes (-)
B. Transfers from deferred taxes
XX. Taxes on profit
A. Taxes (-)
B. Adjustment of income taxes and w rite-back of tax provisions

(67,752)
(68,704)
952

(55,835)
(56,084)
249

164,451

131,892

-

-

164,451

131,892

XXI. Profit (Loss (-)) for the year
XXII. Transfers to the non taxable reserve (-)
XXII. Transfers from the non taxable reserve
XXIII. Profit (loss (-)) for the year to be appropriated

XXVI

The accompanying Notes form part of these financial statements.

EXH10014

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Appropriation and transfer
As at 31 December

(€'000)
Appropriation and transfer
A. Profit (loss (-)) to be appropriated
1. Profit (loss (-)) of the year to be appropriated
2. Carried forw ard profit (loss (-)) of previous financial years

2015

2014

654,494
164,451
490,043

635,403
131,892
503,511

B. Transfer from shareholder's equity
1. From capital and share premium
2. From reserves

-

-

C. Appropriation to shareholder's equity (-)
1. To the capital and to the share premium
2. To the legal reserve
3. To the other reserves

-

-

D. Carried forw ard result
1. Carried forw ard profit (-)
2. Carried forw ard loss
E. Shareholders' intervention in the loss
F. Profit to be distributed (-)
1. Shareholders (a)
2. Directors (a)
3. Other beneficiaries (a)

(509,489)
(509,489)
-

(490,043)
(490,043)
-

(145,005)
(145,005)
-

(145,360)
(145,360)
-

(a) solely in Belgian limited companies
The accompanying Notes form part of these financial statements.

EXH10015

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Notes to the stand-alone financial statements
I. Amounts receivable from credit institutions
(Heading III of balance sheet assets)
As at 31 December

(€'000)
(heading III of the assets)
A. For the heading as a w hole
1. Amount receivable from affiliated enterprises
2. Amount receivable from other enterprises linked by participating interests
3. Subordinated amounts receivable

13,484,627
-

15,937,366
-

In terms of nature, the follow ing additional analysis is relevant
- Surplus funds w ith banks
- Loans to banks

13,065,021
419,606

14,962,946
974,420

13,484,627

15,937,366

11,650,649

13,521,398

-

-

11,558,796
91,853
-

13,292,474
228,924
-

B. Other am ounts receivable (w ith a term or period of notice) from credit
institutions
(heading III B. of the assets)
1. Bills eligible for refinancing at the central bank of the country or countries of
establishment of the credit institution
2. Breakdow n according to remaining term to maturity
- Up to 3 months
- Over 3 months and up to one year
- Over one year and up to 5 years
- Over 5 years
- Undated

2015

2014

EXH10016

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

II. Amounts receivable from customers
(Heading IV of balance sheet assets)
As at 31 December

(€'000)

2015

2014

364

338

2. Am ounts receivable from other enterprises linked by participating interests
3. Subordinated am ounts receivable

-

-

4. Bills eligible for refinancing at the central bank of the country or countries of
establishm ent of the credit institution

-

-

5. Breakdow n of am ounts receivable according to rem aining term to m aturity
a. Up to 3 months
b. Over 3 months and up to one year
c. Over one year and up to 5 years
d. Over 5 years
e. Undated

1,546,517
2,422,295
-

2,581,612
1,698,504
-

6. Breakdow n according to the nature of the debtors
a. On public authorities
b. On individuals
c. On corporates

23
3,968,789

130
4,279,986

7. Breakdow n by type
a. Commercial paper
b. Leasing loans
c. Consumer loans
d. Real estate loans
e. Other loans superior to 1 year
f. Other

3,968,812

4,280,116

8. Geographical breakdow n (a)
a. Belgium
b. Foreign countries

10,526
3,958,286

8,023
4,272,093

3,968,812

4,280,116

-

-

1. Am ounts receivable from affiliated enterprises

9. Analytical data related to real estate loans w ith reconstitution of capital at the
bank
a. Initial capital granted
b. Reconstitution fund and mathematical reserve linked to the loans
c. Net position (a-b)

(a) The geographical breakdown is made in function of the beneficiaries of the credit.

EXH10017

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

III. Bonds and other fixed-income securities
(Heading V of balance sheet assets)
As at 31 December

(€'000)
A. General

2015
809,729

2014
1,027,948

1. Bonds and other securities issued by affiliated enterprises

-

-

2. Bonds and other securities issued by other enterprises linked by participating
interests

-

-

3. Bonds and securities representing subordinated loans

-

-

4. Geographical breakdow n of the follow ing headings
a. Belgian public issuers
b. Foreign public issuers
c. Belgian other issuers
d. Foreign other issuers

566,610
91,101
152,018

203,046
474,814
350,088

5. Quotations
a. Book value listed securities
b. Market value listed securities
c. Book value unlisted securities

809,729
809,061
-

1,027,948
1,027,289
-

6. Quotations and durations
a. Residual term up to one year
b. Residual term over one year

304,052
505,677

1,027,948
-

7. Bonds and securities belonging to
a. Trading portfolio
b. Investment portfolio

809,729

1,027,948

-

-

-

-

-

-

14,329

9,198

8. For the trading portfolio
a. Positive difference betw een the market value and the acquisition value for bonds and
securities to be valued at their market value
b. Positive difference betw een the market value and the book value for bonds and
securities valued in accordance w ith Article 35 ter §2 (2)
9. For the investm ent portfolio
a. Positive difference in respect of all securities w ith a redemption value higher than their
book value
b. Negative difference in respect of all securities w ith a redemption value low er than their
book value

EXH10018

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

III. Bonds and other fixed-income securities (continued)
(Heading V of balance sheet assets)
As at 31 December

(€'000)
B. Details of the book value of the investm ent portfolio
1. Acquisition value at the end of the previous financial year
2. Changes during the financial year
a. Acquisitions
b. Redemptions and disposals
c. Adjustments made in accordance w ith Article 35 ter §4 and 5 (+/-)
3. Acquisition value at the end of the financial year

2015

2014

1,027,948

655,426

1,475,617
(1,679,623)
(14,213)

1,039,916
(650,000)
(17,394)

809,729

1,027,948

4. Transfers betw een portfolios
a. From the investment portfolio to the trading portfolio ( - )
b. From the trading portfolio to the investment portfolio ( + )
c. Impacts of these transfers on the result

-

-

5. Write-offs at the end of the previous financial year

-

-

6. Changes during the financial year
a. Charged
b. Reserved because of surplus (-)
c. Cancelled (-)

-

-

d. Transferred from one heading to another (-)

-

-

7. Write-offs at the end of the financial year

-

-

809,729

1,027,948

8. Book value at the end of the financial year

EXH10019

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

IV. Corporate shares and other variable-income securities
(Heading VI of balance sheet assets)
As at 31 December

(€'000)
A. General inform ation

2015

2014

1. Geographical breakdow n of the issuers of the securities
a. Belgian issuers
b. Foreign issuers

-

-

2. Quotations
a. Book value listed securities
b. Market value listed securities
c. Unlisted securities

-

-

3. Shares and securities belonging to the
a. Trading portfolio
b. Investment portfolio

-

-

-

-

-

-

4. For the trading portfolio
a. Positive difference betw een the acquisition value and the market value for securities
valued at their market value
b. Positive difference betw een the market value, w hen higher, and the book value for
securities valued in accordance w ith Article 35 ter § 2 (2)

EXH10020

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

IV. Corporate shares and other variable-income securities (continued)
(Heading VI of balance sheet assets)
As at 31 December

(€'000)
B. Details of the book value of the investm ent portfolio

2015

2014

1. Acquisition value at the end of the previous financial year

-

-

2. Changes during the financial year
a. Acquisitions
b. Cancelled (-)
c. Other changes

-

-

3. Acquisition value at the end of the financial year

-

-

4. Transfers betw een portfolios
a. From the investment portfolio to the trading portfolio (-)
b. From the trading portfolio to the investment portfolio (+)
c. Impact of these transfers on the result

-

-

5. Write-offs at the end of the previous financial year

-

-

6. Changes during the financial year
a. Charged
b. Reversed because of surplus (-)

-

-

c. Cancelled (-)

-

-

d. Transferred from one heading to another (+/-)

-

-

7. Write-offs at the end of the financial year

-

-

8. Book value at the end of the financial year

-

-

EXH10021

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

V. Financial fixed assets
(Heading VII of balance sheet assets)
As at 31 December

(€'000)
A. Breakdow n of the headings VII A, B, C, D of the assets
1. Econom ic sector of
a. Participation in affiliated enterprises
b. Participation in other enterprises linked by participating interests
c. Other financial assets
d. Subordinated loans w ith affiliated enterprises and w ith other
associated enterprises

(€'000)
2. Quotation
a. Participation in affiliated enterprises
b. Participation in other enterprises linked by participating interests
c. Other financial fixed assets
d. Subordinated loans w ith affiliated enterprises and w ith other
associated enterprises

2015
Credit
institutions

-

2015
Quoted
124
-

Other

23,200
8,042
-

Not quoted
23,200
7,918
-

2014
Credit
institutions

Other

-

2014
Quoted
124
-

27,699
7,428
-

Not quoted
27,699
7,304
-

EXH10022

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

V. Financial fixed assets (continued)
(Heading VII of balance sheet assets)
As at 31 December 2015

(€'000)
B. Details on the book value at the end of the financial year (VII A, B
and C of the assets)

Affiliated
(VII.A.)

Enterprises
Associated
(VII.B.)

Other
(VII.C.)

1. Acquisition value at the end of the previous financial year

27,699

-

7,428

2. Changes during the financial year
a. Acquisitions
b. Sales
c. Transfers from one heading to another (+/-)

(4,499)
-

-

614
-

3. Acquisition value at the end of the financial year

23,200

-

8,042

4. Revaluation at the end of the previous financial year

-

-

-

5. Changes during the financial year
a. Charged
b. Acquired from third parties
c. Cancelled (-)
d. Transferred from one heading to another(+/-)

-

-

-

6. Revaluation at the end of the financial year

-

-

-

7. Write-offs at the end of the previous financial year

-

-

-

8. Changes during the financial year
a. Charged

-

-

-

b. Revered because of surplus (-)

-

-

-

c. Acquired from third parties

-

-

-

d. Cancelled (-)

-

-

-

e. Transfers from one heading to another (+/-)

-

-

-

9. Write-offs at the end of the financial year

-

-

-

23,200

-

8,042

10. Net book value at the end of the financial year

EXH10023

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

V. Financial fixed assets (continued)
(Heading VII of balance sheet assets)
As at 31 December 2015

(€'000)
C. Details of the subordinated loans

Affiliated
enterprises

Associated
enterprises

1. Net book value at the end of the previous financial year

-

-

2. Changes during the financial year
a. Additions
b. Repayments (-)
c. Write-off (-)
d. Write-off taken back
e. Exchange differences (+/-)
f. Other change(+/-)

-

-

3. Net book value at the end of the financial year

-

-

4. Cum ulated provisions at the end of the financial year

-

-

EXH10024

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

VI. A. List of affiliated enterprises
As at 31 December 2015

Mentioned hereafter are the enterprises in which the credit institution holds a participation as mentioned in the Royal Decree of 23
September 1992, as well as the other enterprises in which the credit institution holds social rights representing at least 10% of the
subscribed equity.

Shareholder's stake
Name,
address,
VAT or Nat. Id nr

Calar Belgium SA/NV
1 Boulevard du Roi Albert II
1210 Brussels, Belgium

Directly
Type of shares
Number

%

Data from the last available financial statem ents
Through
Financial
subsidiaries statem ents
%
Currency
Equity Net result
of

Ordinary shares

157,354

100

31/12/2015

€'000

21,329

918

Ordinary shares

0

0

31/12/2015

€'000

-

8

Registre des sociétés civiles : 1489
Euroclear Finance 2 SA (liquidated in December 2015)
5, Rue Guillaume Kroll
1882 Luxembourg, Luxembourg
RCS Lux: B - 108194

EXH10025

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

VI. B. List of enterprises for which the credit institution as a shareholder is bearing unlimited
liability
As at 31 December 2015

Code

Name and complete address of the headquarter and for the Belgian enterprises, mention of the VAT number
or the national number
05

Possible
code (a)
10

(a) The financial statements of the enterprise:
A. are published by deposit at the National Bank of Belgium by this enterprise;
B. are effectively published by this enterprise in another EU Member State as per Article 3 of the Directive: 68/151/CEE; and
C. are integrated in the global consolidation or by proportional consolidation of the consolidated financial statements of the credit
institution controlled and published in agreement with the Royal Decree of 23 September 1992 related to the consolidated
accounts of credit institutions

EXH10026

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

VII. Formation expenses and intangible fixed assets
(Heading VIII of balance sheet assets)
As at 31 December 2015

(€'000)
A. Detail of the form ation expenses

2015

1. Net book value at the end of the previous financial year

-

2. Changes during the financial year
a. New expenses incurred
b. Depreciation
c. Other changes

-

3. Net book value at the end of the financial year

-

4. Including
a. Formation and capital - increased expenses or issuing expenses for loans and other
start-up expenses
b. Reorganisation expenses

(€'000)
B. Intangible fixed assets

-

Goodw ill

Other intangible
fixed assets

Com m issions
for the
operations of
art 27 Bis

1. Acquisition value at the end of the previous financial year

-

37,886

-

2. Changes during the financial year

-

54

-

a. Acquisitions including production of fixed assets

-

54

-

b. Transfers and disposals (-)

-

-

-

c. Transfers from one heading to another(-)

-

-

-

3. Acquisition value at the end of the financial year

-

37,940

-

4. Depreciation and am ounts w ritten off at the end of the previous financial year

-

37,874

-

5. Changes during the financial year

-

53

-

a. Charged

-

3

-

b. Reversed because of surplus (-)

-

-

-

c. Acquired from third parties

-

-

-

d. Cancelled (-)

-

-

-

e. Transferred from one heading to another (+/-)

-

50

-

6. Depreciation and am ounts w ritten off at the end of the financial year

-

37,927

-

7. Net book value at the end of the financial year

-

13

-

EXH10027

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

VIII. Tangible fixed assets
(Heading IX of balance sheet assets)
As at 31 December 2015

(€'000)
1. Acquisition value at the end of the previous
financial year

Installations,
Land and m achines and
buildings
tools
2,448

2. Changes during the financial year
a. Acquisitions including ow n production of fixed
assets
b. Transfers and disposals (-)

-

c. Transfers from one heading to another (+/-)

-

3. Acquisition value at the end of the financial
year

-

2,758

1,399

-

4,368

-

4. Revaluations at the end of the previous
financial year

-

-

-

-

-

-

5. Changes during the financial year

-

310
317

Furniture,
fixtures and
Leasing and
vehicles sim ilar rights
1,384
-

(7)
-

15
97

-

(82)
-

-

Fixed assets
under
constructionand
Other tangible
advance
fixed assets
paym ents
4,021
-

347
351
(4)
-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

a. Recorded

-

-

-

-

-

-

b. Acquired from third parties

-

-

-

-

-

-

c. Cancelled (-)

-

-

-

-

-

-

d. Transferred from one heading to another (+/-)

-

-

-

-

-

-

6. Revaluations at the end of the financial year

-

-

-

-

-

-

7. Depreciation and am ounts w ritten-off at the
end of the previous financial year

-

1,535

634

-

1,846

-

8. Changes during the financial year

-

496

125

-

891

-

a. Charged

-

440

161

-

805

-

b. Reversed because of surplus (-)

-

-

-

-

-

-

c. Acquired from third parties

-

-

-

-

-

-

d. Cancelled (-)

-

(6)

(52)

-

(4)

-

e. Transferred from one heading to another (+/-)

-

62

16

-

90

-

9. Depreciation and am ounts w ritten-off at the
end of the financial year

-

2,031

759

-

2,737

-

10. Net book value at the end of the financial year

-

727

640

-

1,631

-

EXH10028

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

IX. Other assets

(Heading XI of balance sheet assets)
As at 31 December

(€'000)
Breakdow n of this caption if it represents an important amount
a. VAT & WHT to recover
b. Guarantee deposits
c. Tax assets
d. Miscellaneous

2015

2014

11,352
4,017
396

14,504
3,561
714

15,765

18,779

EXH10029

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

X. Deferred charges and accrued income
(Heading XII of balance sheet assets)
As at 31 December

(€'000)
1. Deferred charges
2. Accrued incom e

2015
2,514

2014
2,416

97,183

105,367

99,697

107,783

X.bis Re-use of funds of segregated customers
(Heading XII of balance sheet)
As at 31 December

(€'000)
1. Total amount

2015

2014

-

-

EXH10030

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

XI. Amounts payable to credit institutions
(Heading I of balance sheet liabilities)
As at 31 December

(€'000)
1. For the heading as a w hole, am ounts payable to affiliated enterprises
2. For the heading as a w hole, am ounts payable to other enterprises linked by
participating interests
3. Breakdow n of the am ounts payable other than at sight according to their
residual term (heading I.B and C of the liabilities)
a. Up to three months
b. Over three months and up to one year
c. Over one year and up to five years
d. Over five years
e. Undated

2015
-

2014
14,210

-

-

405,518
-

1,668,882
-

405,518

1,668,882

EXH10031

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

XII. Amounts payable to customers
(Heading II of balance sheet liabilities)
As at 31 December

(€'000)
1. Am ounts payable to affiliated enterprises
2. Am ounts payable to other enterprises linked by participating interests
3. Breakdow n by residual term
a. At sight
b. Up to 3 months
c. Over 3 months and up to one year
d. Over one year and up to 5 years
e. Over 5 years
f. Undated
4. Breakdow n of the debts according to the nature of the debtors
a. Debts on public authorities

2015
2,420

2014
3,009

-

-

5,001,733
87,745
15,500
-

3,799,253
89,081
360
-

45,226

3,353

b. Debts on individuals

-

c. Debts on corporates

5,059,752

3,885,341

5. Geographical breakdow n of the am ounts payable to
a. Belgium
b. Foreign countries

95,592

72,120

5,009,386

3,816,574

5,104,978

3,888,694

Amounts payable to credit institutions and customers (headings I and II of balance sheet liabilities) include an amount of 3,726,977,000 €-

equivalent of deposits blocked pursuant to applicable international sanctions measures.

EXH10032

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

XIII. Debt securities in issue
(Heading III of balance sheet liabilities)
As at 31 December

(€'000)
1. Am ounts payable w hich, to the know ledge of the credit institution, constitute
am ounts payable to affiliated enterprises

2015
-

2. Am ounts payable w hich, to the know ledge of the credit institution, constitute
am ounts payable to other enterprises linked by participating interests
3. Breakdow n according to the residual term
a. Up to 3 months
b. Over 3 months and up to one year
c. Over one year and up to 5 years
d. Over 5 years
e. Undated

-

-

-

-

-

-

2014
-

EXH10033

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

XIV. Other amounts payable
(Heading IV of balance sheet liabilities)
As at 31 December

(€'000)
1. Fiscal and social debts tow ards the fiscal adm inistration
a. Overdue
b. Not overdue

2015
59,728
59,728

2014
59,383
59,383

3,817
3,817

3,363
3,363

119
59,609

27,193
32,190

Dividend

44,982

45,336

Payroll (other than social security)

36,906

42,478

Other payable

14,140

9,710

2. Fiscal and social debts tow ards the social security authorities
a. Overdue
b. Not overdue
3. Taxes
a. Payable
b. Estimated
4. Other debts
Breakdow n of this caption if it represents an important amount

EXH10034

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

XV. Accrued charged and deferred income
(Heading V of balance sheet liabilities)
As at 31 December

(€'000)
1. Accrued charges

2015
80,905

2. Deferred incom e

633

879

81,538

79,784

2014
78,906

EXH10035

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

XVI. Provisions for risks and charges
(Heading VI.A.3 of balance sheet liabilities)
As at 31 December

(€'000)
Breakdow n of this heading if it represents an important amount
Onerous contracts
Dilapidation costs
Taxes

2015

2014

131
4,518

403
117
4,700

4,649

5,220

EXH10036

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

XVII. Statement of subordinated liabilities
(Heading VIII of balance sheet liabilities)
As at 31 December

(€'000)
1. Debts to affiliated enterprises

2015
-

2. Debts to other enterprises linked by participating interest
3. Charges in respect of subordinated debts

2014
102,505

-

-

2,043

4,384

4. Details of subordinated debt are as follows:

N° Ref.

Currency

1

EUR

Am ount

Maturity date

102,600 Undated issue

A) Circum stances for early redem ption
B) Conditions for subordination
C) Conditions for convertibility

A) On demand of the issuer w ith a notice period of 30 to 60 days, at each
interest payment date as from 15 June 2015.
B) Payment after all preferred creditors, equally w ith other subordinated
obligations, before shareholders, if the guarantor is solvent.
C) Not convertible

The Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Guaranteed Non-Cumulative Perpetual Securities listed above were denominated in euro and were
issued at par by Euroclear Finance 2 in June 2005 (principal amount of €300,000,000). The proceeds of the issue and the €4,500,000
capital of Euroclear Finance 2 were lent to Euroclear Bank through the full subscription of Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Perpetual
Notes (principal amount of €304,500,000, net of €2,600,000 of issue costs) issued by Euroclear Bank. These notes provide Upper Tier II
regulatory capital to Euroclear Bank on a stand-alone basis, whereas the securities provide Hybrid Tier I regulatory capital to Euroclear
Bank on a consolidated basis.
Euroclear Bank has exercised on 15 June 2015 the optional redemption rights of the Bank on all of its Upper Tier 2 note with Euroclear
Finance 2 at the base redemption price.

EXH10037

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

XVIII. Shareholders’ capital
As at 31 December 2015

Am ounts

Num ber of
shares

(€'000)
1. Capital
a. Subscribed capital
(heading IX. A. of the liabilities)
- At the end of the last financial year
- Subscribed capital changes throughout the exercise
- At the end of the financial year
b. Structure of capital
- Categories of shares
* Ordinary shares
- Registered or bearer shares
* Registered
* Bearer

285,497
285,497

70,838
70,838

285,497

70,838

xxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxx

Uncalled
capital
2. Called up but unpaid capital
a. Shareholders still ow ing capital payment

70,838
-

Called up
capital, unpaid

-

-

Capital Corresponding
am ount held
num ber of
shares
3. Ow n shares held
a. By the credit institution
b. By its subsidiaries

-

-

- Amount of convertible loans outstanding

-

-

- Amount of capital to be subscribed

-

-

- Corresponding maximum number of shares to issue

-

-

- Number of subscription rights outstanding

-

-

- Capital amount to be subscribed

-

-

- Corresponding maximum number of shares to issue

-

-

-

-

-

4. Share issuance com m itm ent
a. Follow ing the exercise of conversion rights

b. Follow ing the exercise of subscription rights

5. Non-subscribed authorised capital

Num ber of
stakes

Num ber of
voices related
to

6. Shares not representing capital
Which are
a. Held by the credit institution

-

b. Held by its subsidiaries

-

-

EXH10038

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

XIX. Breakdown of total assets and total liabilities in euros and foreign currencies
As at 31 December 2015

(€'000)
Total assets
Total liabilities

In foreign
currencies (euro
In euros
equivalent)
8,087,394
11,668,970
7,259,697
12,496,667

EXH10039

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

XX. Trustee operations referred to in Article 27ter, § 1 paragraph 3
As at 31 December

(€'000)

2015

Concerned headings of the assets and liabilities
..........................................................................................................................
..........................................................................................................................
..........................................................................................................................
..........................................................................................................................

EXH10040

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

XXI. Guaranteed liabilities and commitments
As at 31 December 2015

Secured guarantees provided or irrevocably promised by the credit institution on its own assets

(€'000)
1. As security for liabilities and com m itm ents of
the credit institution
a. Headings of the liabilities
b. Off-balance sheet headings
- Guarantee w ith the National Bank of Belgium
- Guarantee w ith credit institutions

Mortgages (a)

Pledging of
goodw ill (b)

Pledges on
other assets
(c)

Guarantees
established
on future
assets (d)

-

-

2,112,278

-

-

-

35,927

-

2. As security for liabilities and com m itm ents of
third parties
a. Headings of the liabilities
b. Off-balance sheet headings

(a): Amount registered or book value of the real estate encumbered if the latter is lower
(b): Amount registered
(c): Book value of the assets pledged
(d): Amount of the assets in question
Investment securities with a book value of € 2,112,278,000 (2014: € 3,535,439,000) have been deposited with the National Bank of Belgium
as potential collateral for TARGET2-related exposures. There was an exposure amounting to €7,889,000 at 31 December 2015 (2014:
€840,651,000)

EXH10041

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

XXII. Statement of the contingent liabilities and of commitments which can give rise to a
credit risk
(Heading I and II of the off-balance sheet)
As at 31 December

(€'000)
Total of
Total of
Total of
Total of

contingent liabilities on account of affiliated enterprises
contingent liabilities on account of other enterprises linked by participating interests
the commitments to affiliated enterprises
the commitments to other enterprises linked by participating interests

2015
-

2014
98,100
-

EXH10042

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

XXIII. Details concerning the results of the current and previous financial year
(Headings I through XV of the profit and loss accounts)
As at 31 December

(€'000)
1. Breakdow n of operating incom e according to origin
a. Interests and similar income
b. Income from variable-income securities
- Corporate shares and other variable-income securities
- Participation in affiliated enterprises
- Participation in other enterprises linked by participating
interests
- Participating interests and shares representing financial
fixed assets
c. Commissions received

2015
2014
Belgian entities Entities abroad Belgian entities Entities abroad
148,961

39

124,070

36

-

-

1,007
-

-

39

-

218

-

977,219

-

916,023

-

3,695

76

634

213

d. Profit from financial operations
- From exchange transactions and transactions in securities
and other financial instruments
- From sale of investment securities
e. Other operating income

4,558

606
138

5,908

EXH10043

142

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

XXIII. Details concerning the results of the current and previous financial year (continued)
(Headings I through XV of the profit and loss accounts)
As at 31 December

(€'000)
2. Workers registered
a. Total number of w orkers at the end of the financial year
b. Average number registered as full-time equivalent
- Management
- Employees
- Manual w orkers
- Other
c. Number of hours w orked

2015

2014

1,672
1,574
243
1,331
2,394,988

1,542
1,467
224
1,243
2,191,257

a. Wages and direct social advantages

92,490

87,787

b. Social insurance paid by the employer

3. Social charges
20,403

19,741

c. Employer premiums for extra legal insurance

1,911

1,467

d. Other

4,578

3,883

354

7,520

119,736

120,398

400

137

(224)

(140)

e. Pensions

4. Provisions for pensions
a. Additions (+)
b. Write-backs (-)

176

(3)

5. Other operating incom e
a. Breakdow n of the heading XIV if they represent an important amount
..........................................................................................................................
..........................................................................................................................
..........................................................................................................................
6. Other operating charges
(heading XV of the profit and loss account)
a. Taxes
b. Other operating charges

5,859

5,881

31,380

31,520

c. Breakdow n of the other operating charges if they represent an important amount
- Other operating charges
- Licence fees

5,702

7,918

25,678

23,602

37,239

37,401

7. Operating results linked to affiliated enterprises
a. Revenues

11,261

9,832

b. Expenses

346,757

333,741

EXH10044

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

XXIV. Forward off-balance sheet operations in securities, foreign currencies and other
financial instruments which do not constitute commitments which can give rise to a credit risk
within the meaning of heading II of the off-balance sheet
As at 31 December 2015

(€'000)
A. Types of operations
1. On transferable securities
a. Forw ard purchases and sales of transferable securities and negotiable
instruments

Of w hich
transactions do not
Am ount at constitute hedging
31 Decem ber 2015
transactions

-

-

1,398,117
-

-

- Interest-rate sw aps

-

-

- Interest-rate futures

-

-

- Forw ard interest-rate contracts

-

-

- Interest-rate options

-

-

- Other option contracts

-

-

- Other futures operations
- Other forw ard purchases and sales

-

-

2. On currencies (a)
a. Forw ard exchange operations
b. Interest-rate and currency sw aps
c. Currency futures
d. Currency options
e. Forw ard exchange rate contracts
3. On other financial instrum ents
a. On interests (b)

b. Other forw ard purchases and sales (c)

-

1,398,117
-

(a)
(b)
(c)

Amounts to be delivered
Nominal/notional reference amount
Agreed buying/selling price

Estimation of the impact on the results of the derogation to the valuation rule defined under Article 36 Bis, § 2, granted by the Belgian
Banking and Finance Commission, concerning interest-rate derivatives.

(€'000)
B. Type of interest-rate derivative

Am ount at
31 Decem ber 2015
(a)

Difference
betw een m arket
value and book
value (b)

1. For the purposes of treasury m anagem ent

-

-

2. For the purposes of asset and liability m anagem ent

-

-

3. Without effect on risk reduction

-

-

(a)
(b)

Notional amount
Positive fair value (Negative fair value)

EXH10045

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

XXV. Exceptional results

(Heading XVII.E and XVIII.E of the profit and loss accounts)
As at 31 December

(€'000)
1. Realised gain on disposal of fixed assets to affiliated enterprises
2. Realised loss on disposals of fixed assets to affiliated enterprises
3. Breakdow n of the heading if it represents an im portant am ount
(heading XVII. E. of the income statement)
..........................................................................................................................
..........................................................................................................................

2015
-

4. Other exceptional charges - Breakdow n of the heading if it represents an
im portant am ount
(heading XVIII. E. of the income statement)
..........................................................................................................................
..........................................................................................................................

EXH10046

2014
-

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

XXVI. Income taxes

(Heading XX of the profit and loss accounts)
As at 31 December

(€'000)
1. Incom e tax for the year
a. Taxes or w ithholding taxes paid or due
b. Taxes or w ithholding taxes receivable booked as an asset
c. Additional estimated tax (brought to heading IV. B. of the liabilities) as fiscal debts
2. Incom e taxes on previous financial years
a. Additional taxes or w ithholding taxes
b. Additional estimated taxes (brought to the heading IV of the liabilities) or provisioned
(brought to heading VI A.2. of the liabilities)

3. Sources of the differences betw een accounting profit and tax profit
With particular mention of those related to timing differences (if the impact on the corporate
profit is significant)
- Non-deductible expenses
- Taxable provisions
- Notional interest
- RDT
4. Im pact on the extraordinary results of the taxes on the result of the year

2015
68,598
8,989
59,609

2014
55,986
23,796
32,190

(846)
(846)
-

(151)
(151)
-

67,752

55,835

4,091
971
(22,500)
(502)

3,768
10,423
(36,180)
(1,164)

..........................................................................................................................
..........................................................................................................................
..........................................................................................................................
5. Sources of deferred taxes (w here those indications are im portant for the
valuation of the credit institution)
a. Deferred tax assets
- Cumulated tax losses, future deductible taxed benefits
b. Deferred tax liabilities

-

-

-

-

..........................................................................................................................

EXH10047

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

XXVII. Other taxes and taxes at the charges of third parties
As at 31 December

(€'000)
1. VAT charged and special taxes
a. To the credit institution (deductible)
b. By the credit institution

136,976
13,564

129,670
11,721

2. Taxes w ithheld
a. Personal income tax w ithheld
b. Withholding tax on financial revenue

18,838
1

18,352
14

2015

2014

EXH10048

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

XXVIII. Off-balance sheet rights and commitments and transactions with related parties
As at 31 December

(€'000)
1. Major com m itm ents for the acquisition of fixed assets
..........................................................................................................................

2015

2014

..........................................................................................................................
..........................................................................................................................
2. Major com m itm ents for the sale of fixed assets
..........................................................................................................................
..........................................................................................................................
..........................................................................................................................
3. Im portant legal proceedings and other im portant com m itm ents
..........................................................................................................................
..........................................................................................................................

-

-

-

-

-

-

78,514

53,955

-

-

4. If necessary, brief description of the com m itm ents relating to the
supplem entary retirem ent benefit plan for the benefit of em ployees and
directors
5. Retirem ent benefits w hich are the responsibility of the credit institution
- Estimated amount of engagement for the credit institution for services already carried
out
- Method of this estimation
6. Nature and business purpose of off-balance sheet operations
To the extent that the risks and advantages related to those operations are significant and
that the disclosure of those risks and rew ards is necessary for the correct assessment of
the financial situation of the institution
The commitment of Euroclear Bank tow ards Euroclear SA/NV as of 31 December 2015
amounts to €78,514,000 and corresponds to the development costs related to
infrastructure and innovation projects currently under development or already launched
that Euroclear SA/NV, as ow ner, w ill charge out in future years.
..........................................................................................................................
..........................................................................................................................
7. Transactions w ith related parties not carried out at arm 's length
Disclosure of such transactions to the extent that they are significant, including their
amount, the nature of the links w ith the related party, as w ell as any other information on
the transactions w hich w ould be necessary for a better understanding of the financial
situation of the institution
..........................................................................................................................
NIHIL
..........................................................................................................................

EXH10049

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

XXIX. Financial relations with
As at 31 December

(€'000)
A. Directors and m anagers, individuals or corporate bodies w ho control the credit
institution directly or indirectly, but w ho are not affiliated enterprises or other
enterprises controlled directly or indirectly by those persons
1. Am ounts receivable from them
a. Main conditions concerning amounts receivable

2015

2014

-

-

2. Am ount of guarantees given on their behalf
a. Main conditions concerning guarantees given on their behalf

-

-

3. Other significant com m itm ents undertaken in their favour
a. Main conditions concerning other commitments

-

-

1,728
-

2,266
-

4. The am ount of direct and indirect rem uneration and pensions included in the
incom e statem ent, as long as this disclosure does not concern exclusively or
m ainly the situation of a single identifiable person
a. To directors and managers
b. To past directors and past managers

(€'000)

2015

2014

357

336

B. The auditor(s) and person(s) to w hom he (they) is (are) linked
1. Audit fees
2. Non-statutory audit services
a. Other assurance services

180

180

b. Tax services

-

-

c. Other services

-

-

3. Non-statutory audit services perform ed by individuals related to the statutory
auditor
a. Other assurance services

-

-

b. Tax services

-

-

c. Other services

-

-

537

516

4. Notices in application of alinea 133, paragraph 6 of the Belgian Com pany Code

Euroclear Bank ensures that the independence of the external auditor is preserved through a specific policy adopted by the Board and
agreed to by PwC. This policy adheres to the highest standards of independence. The engagement of the external auditor for non-core
services is subject to specific controls, supervised by the Audit Committee.

EXH10050

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

XXX. Positions in financial instruments
As at 31 December

(€'000)
1. Financial instrum ents to be received on behalf of custom ers
2. Financial instrum ents to be delivered to custom ers
3. Financial instrum ents deposited by custom ers
4. Financial instrum ents from custom ers deposited
5. Financial instrum ents from custom ers received in guarantee
6. Financial instrum ents from custom ers given in guarantee

2015
-

2014
-

-

-

9,475,167,856

8,914,087,269

12,550,388,614

12,080,967,520

3,075,588,064

3,166,880,251

367,306

-

EXH10051

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

XXXI. Derivative financial instruments not estimated at fair value
As at 31 December

(€'000)
Estimation of the fair value of every category of derivative financial instrumentsnot estimated
at fair value in the financial statements, w ith indications of the nature and volumes of such
instruments
a. Foreign exchange options
b. Forw ard foreign exchange
c. Interest rate derivatives

2015

2014

1,538
-

(425)
-

EXH10052

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

XXXII. Statement relative to the consolidated accounts
As at 31 December 2015

Declaration related to consolidated accounts
A. Information to be completed by all the credit institutions
The credit institution establishes and publishes consolidated accounts and a consolidated management report in accordance with the Royal
Decree of 23 September 1992 relating to the consolidated accounts of credit institutions: YES / NO1
The credit institution does not establish consolidated accounts or a management report for one of the following reasons1:

the credit institution does not control, solely or jointly, one or more subsidiaries under Belgian or foreign law

the credit institution, however, submitted to the Royal Decree of 23 September 1992, is exempted to establish consolidated
accounts and a consolidated management report because the credit institution is a subsidiary of a mother company that
establishes and publishes consolidated accounts (Article 4 of the Royal Decree of 23 September 1992).
o
justification of the respect of the provisions set out Article 4
o
name, complete address of the headquarter company and, if it concerns a Belgian legal entity, the VAT number or the
national number of the mother company that establishes and publishes the consolidated accounts in the name of which
the exemption is authorised

the credit institution only controls subsidiaries which are, both individually and on a combined basis, insignificant for providing a
true and fair view on the consolidated financial statements.

B. Information to be completed by the credit institution if a subsidiary or a joint subsidiary
Name, complete address of the headquarter and, if it concerns a Belgian legal entity, the VAT number or the national number of the mother
company and mention if this mother company establishes and publishes consolidated accounts in which the credit institution accounts are
integrated by the consolidation2:
Ultimate parent

Immediate parent

Euroclear plc
33 Cannon Street
London EC4M 5SB
United Kingdom

Euroclear SA/NV
1 Boulevard du Roi Albert II
1210 Brussels
Belgium
BE 423.747.369

If the mother company is under foreign law, place where the above-mentioned consolidated accounts can be obtained2:
Euroclear plc
Baarematte
6340 Baar
Switzerland

1
2

Euroclear SA/NV
1 Boulevard du Roi Albert II
1210 Brussels
Belgium
BE 423.747.369

Delete as appropriate

If the accounts of the institution are consolidated at several levels, the indications are given on the one hand for the biggest consolidation
scope and on the other hand, for the smallest consolidation scope to which the institution belongs as a subsidiary, and for which
consolidated accounts are prepared and published

EXH10053

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Staff survey

As at 31 December 2015

Social security number : 30/01186583-53
Number of the social consulting committees governing the Company: 310
I. Details of staff employed
A. Staff under contract

Total
1. During the financial year
a. Average number of staff
- Full-time
- Part-time
- Total full-time equivalents (FTE)
b. Effective hours w orked
- Full-time
- Part-time
- Total
c. Personnel expenses (€'000)
- Full-time
- Part-time
- Total
d. Benefits in addition to w ages (€'000)

2. During the previous financial year
a. Average number of staff
b. Effective hours w orked
c. Personnel expenses (€'000)
d. Benefits in addition to w ages (€'000)

1. Men

2. Wom en

883
179
1,022

379
17
392

504
162
630

1,220,579
188,389
1,408,968

548,624
17,526
566,150

671,955
170,863
842,818

68,793
11,849
80,642
1,130

32,821
1,104
33,925
442

35,972
10,745
46,717
688

P. Total

1P. Men

1,062
1,435,134
81,053
1,182

406
576,692
34,036
465

2P. Wom en

656
858,442
47,017
717

EXH10054

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Staff survey (continued)
As at 31 December 2015

Total (T) or
total full-tim e
equivalents
(FTE)

Full-tim e

Part-tim e

875

187

1,020

814

187

959

61
-

-

61

-

-

-

-

-

377

17

390

-

-

-

3. At the end of the financial year
a. Number of staff in the personnel register
b. Breakdow n by type of employment contract
- Contract of unlimited duration
- Contract of limited duration
- One-job contract
- Interim substitution contract
c. Breakdow n by sex and school degree
- Men
Primary school

33

5

37

Higher non-academic degree

124

6

129

Academic degree

220

6

224

- Women

498

170

630

-

-

-

Secondary school

Primary school

59

19

74

Higher non-academic degree

142

56

185

Academic degree

297

95

371

Secondary school

d. Breakdow n by professional occupation
- Management

151

36

181

- Employees

724

151

839

- Manual w orkers

-

-

-

- Other

-

-

-

B. Hired staff and staff put at disposal of the Company

1. Average num ber of people
2. Effective hours w orked
3. Expenses incurred by the Com pany (€'000)

Hired Personnel put
personnel
at disposal
1
387

-

37

-

EXH10055

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Staff survey (continued)
As at 31 December 2015

II. Evolution of staff numbers during the financial year

3. Total fulltim e
equivalents

1. Full-tim e

2. Part-tim e

78

1

79

25
53

1
-

26
53

-

-

-

90

10

98

75
15

10

83

-

15

-

-

-

4

-

4

6

2

7

A. New em ploym ent contracts
1. Num ber of staff engaged during the financial
year
2. Breakdow n by type of em ploym ent contract
a. Contract of undefined duration
b. Contract of defined duration
c. One-job contract
d. Interim substitution contract
B. Em ploym ent contracts term inated
1. Num ber of em ploym ent contracts term inated
during the financial year
2. Breakdow n by type of em ploym ent contract
a. Contract of undefined duration
b. Contract of defined duration
c. One-job contract
d. Interim substitution contracts

3. Breakdow n by m otive for the term ination of
the contract
a. Retirement
b. Early retirement
c. Dismissal
d. Other reason
- Of w hich the number of staff that continues to
provide services to the Company as an
independent on at least a half-time basis

-

4

2

6

76

6

81

-

-

-

EXH10056

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Staff survey (continued)
As at 31 December 2015

III. Staff participating in training programmes

(€'000)
1. Continued training initiatives w ith a form al character at the expense of
the Com pany
a. Number of staff involved
b. Number of training hours
c. Expenses incurred by the Company (€'000)
- of w hich gross charges directly linked to training
- of w hich contributions paid to collective funds
- of w hich subsidies and other financial advantages received

Men

Wom en

285
6,249
1,286
1,275
11
-

478
10,196
2,097
2,081
16
-

36
108
4

43
129
5

a. Number of staff involved

-

b. Number of training hours

-

c. Expenses incurred by the Company

-

-

2. Continued training initiatives w ith less form al or inform al character at
the expense of the Com pany
a. Number of staff involved
b. Number of training hours
c. Expenses incurred by the Company (€'000)
3. Initial training initiatives at the expense of the Com pany

EXH10057

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Complementary Information
As at 31 December 2015

I. Pension Plan

The group, which adopted IAS 19 in 2006, has a wide range of defined-benefit pension plans and medical plans covering employees in
Belgium.
The assets of the plans are held separately from those of the group.
The most recent full actuarial valuations of the plans, under IFRS (IAS 19), were made by independent qualified professional actuaries as of
31 December 2015.
Funding levels are monitored on an annual basis and contributions are made to comply with minimum requirements as determined by local
regulations and, if applicable, internal funding policy. The group considers that the contribution rates set at the last valuation date are
sufficient to eliminate the deficit over the agreed period and that regular contributions, which are based on service costs, will not increase
significantly.
The pension cost in 2015, computed in accordance with IAS 19 (taking into account, for example, projected salary increases and inflation
up to the time of retirement) amounted to €5,307,000 (2014: €4,431,000) and was fully expensed in the current year. The contribution,
reflecting employers' contributions for funded plans and benefit disbursements for unfunded plans, amounted to €2,854,000
(2014: €545,000). The actuarial valuation at 31 December 2015, also computed in accordance with IAS 19, showed a deficit of €14,217,000
(2014: €16,705,000).
The deficit is detailed as follows:
(€'000)
1. Balance at 1 January
2. Movem ents
a. Contributions
b. Service cost
c. Interest cost
d. Foreign currency difference
e. Actuarial gains / (losses)
3. Balance at 31 Decem ber

2015
(16,705)

2014
(9,809)

2,854
(4,991)
(316)
(112)
5,053

545
(4,121)
(310)
4
(3,014)

(14,217)

(16,705)

The major assumptions used by the actuaries in their valuation were:

(€'000)

2015

2014

Discount rate

2.18%

2.09%

Expected inflation rate

1.70%

1.70%

Future salary increases

3.00%

3.00%

Expected medical cost trend rate

3.20%

3.70%

2015

2014

The above percentages are weighted averages of the assumptions used for individual plans.
The value of assets in the plans and the expected rates of return were:
(€'000)
Value of assets
Equities
Bonds

31,793
21,195

30,519
20,347

Total m arket value of assets

52,988

50,866

EXH10058

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

II. Additional clarification on staff survey
In accordance with the applicable regulations, please note that the population reflected in the staff survey does not agree with the figures
presented in Note XXIII of the financial statements. The reason is that the latter present figures related to the legal entity, i.e. including its
foreign branches, whereas the former exclusively shows figures associated with the headquarters in Belgium.

III. Country by country reporting
As per relevant regulations, the country by country reporting includes all the entities in the scope of consolidation of Euroclear Bank.
Figures in the below table do hence differ from these statutory financial statements due to the contribution of Euroclear Bank's subsidiaries.
The reportable country segments are as follows:
-

Belgium includes Euroclear Bank and Calar Belgium SA/NV (property investment);
Hong Kong includes Euroclear Bank’s Hong Kong branch (operational support to ICSD);
Luxembourg includes Euroclear Finance 2 SA (financing vehicle);
Poland includes Euroclear Bank’s Polish branch (operational support to ICSD);

2015
(€'000)

Belgium

Hong Kong

Luxem burg

Poland

Elim inations

Group

1,127,487
12,197
(928,406)

593
17,828
(16,357)

2,011
(2,002)

(245)
35,883
(21,243)

(2,011)
(55,051)
57,062

1,127,835
10,857
(910,946)

Profit before tax

211,278

2,064

Tax on profit and loss

(64,270)

Profit after tax

147,008

Average number of employees (FTE)
Subsidies

Turnover
Other income
Charges

9

14,395

-

227,746

(1)

(2,815)

-

(67,347)

1,803

8

11,580

-

160,399

1,091

123

-

360

-

1,574

1,071

-

-

-

-

1,071

(261)

2014
(€'000)
Turnover
Other income
Charges

Belgium

Hong Kong

Luxem burg

1,038,137

344

4,357

14,073

12,661

-

(870,132)

(11,423)

Profit before tax

182,078

1,582

Tax on profit and loss

(49,886)

Profit after tax

132,192

Average number of employees (FTE)
Subsidies

(4,237)

Poland
(123)

Elim inations
(4,357)

22,891

(36,191)

(15,498)

40,548

Group
1,038,358
13,434
(860,742)

120

7,270

-

191,050

(35)

(1,442)

-

(51,567)

1,378

85

5,828

-

139,483

1,125

106

-

236

-

1,467

2,390

-

-

142

-

2,532

(204)

EXH10059

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Valuation rules
As at 31 December 2015

The financial statements of Euroclear Bank SA/NV and its subsidiary undertakings are made up as at, and for the period ending, 31
December. The valuation rules used to draw up the group’s accounts and the stand-alone accounts of Euroclear Bank have been prepared
in accordance with the Royal Decree of 23 September 1992 (‘the Royal Decree’), relating to the annual accounts of credit institutions.
This document contains the specification of the valuation rules in a number of areas, where the Royal Decree allows alternative treatments,
where significant management estimates are required, or which are very significant areas in the financial statements.
Those areas are:
a]
b]
c]
d]
e]
f]
g]
h]
i]
j]
k]
l]
m]

Income and expenditure recognition
Provisions for bad and doubtful debts
Provisions for liabilities and charges
Leasing
Intangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets
Subsidiary undertakings
Debt securities and equity shares
Sale and repurchase transactions
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
Derivatives and other financial instruments
Foreign currencies
Fund for general banking risks

a] Income and expenditure recognition
Interest income is recognised in the profit and loss account as it accrues.
Dividend income is recognised in the profit and loss account when received.
Fees receivable, which represent a return for services provided, are credited to income when the related service is performed.
Fees receivable, which represent a return for credit risk borne or which are in the nature of interest, are taken to the profit and loss account
over the period of the loan, or on a systematic basis over the expected life of the transaction to which they relate.
Expenditure is accounted for on an accrual basis.
b] Provisions for bad and doubtful debts
Specific provisions are made against advances when, in the opinion of the directors, credit risks or economic or political factors make
recovery doubtful. The need to adjust provisions is reviewed regularly in the light of actual experience. The provisions which are made
during the year (less amounts released and recoveries of bad debts previously written off) are charged against operating profit. Bad debts
are written off in part or in whole when a loss has been confirmed.
c] Provisions for liabilities and charges
Specific provisions are recognised where there is a present obligation arising from a past event, there is a probable outflow of resources,
and the outflow can be estimated reliably.
d] Leasing
Contracts to lease assets are classified as finance leases where they transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the
asset to the customer. Contracts not deemed to be finance leases are treated as operating leases.
Rentals payable and receivable under operating leases are accounted for on the straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
e] Intangible fixed assets
Intangible fixed assets are amortised in equal instalments over their estimated useful lives.
f] Tangible fixed assets
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is provided on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows:

Leasehold improvements: shorter of economic life and period of lease

Data processing and communications equipment: 2 to 5 years

Furniture and fixtures: 7 years
g] Subsidiary undertakings
Investments in Euroclear Bank’s subsidiary undertakings are stated in the parent company’s stand-alone accounts at cost less dividends
received from pre-acquisition reserves and any impairment in value.
h] Debt securities and equity shares
Securities and shares intended for use on a continuing basis in the group’s activities are classified as investment securities and are stated
at cost less provision for any impairment in value. The carrying value of investment securities is adjusted over the period to maturity to allow
for the amortisation of premiums or discounts on an actuarial basis. Such amortisation is included in interest receivable.

EXH10060

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Valuation rules (continued)
As at 31 December 2015

i] Sale and repurchase transactions
Securities that have been sold with an agreement to repurchase continue to be shown on the balance sheet and the sale proceeds
recorded as a deposit. Securities acquired in reverse repurchase transactions are not recognised in the balance sheet and the purchase
price is treated as a loan. The difference between the sale price and repurchase price is accrued evenly over the life of the transaction and
charged or credited to the profit and loss account as interest payable or receivable.
j] Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
The Company operates a number of post-retirement benefit schemes for its employees, including both defined contribution and defined
benefit pension plans.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Company pays fixed contributions into a separate entity and has no legal or
constructive obligation to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient funds to pay all employees the benefits relating to
employee service in the current and prior periods.
A defined benefit plan is a post-employment benefit plan other than a defined contribution plan.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the
balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using
the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash
outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that
have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
All actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in the income
statement in the period in which they occur.
Past service cost is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
The costs of defined contribution plans are charged to the income statement in the period in which they fall due.
The Company provides post-retirement healthcare benefits to their retirees. The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the
period of employment using an accounting methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension plans. Actuarial gains and losses arising
from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are charged or credited to the income statement. These obligations
are valued annually by independent qualified actuaries.
k] Derivatives and other financial instruments
Transactions are undertaken in derivative financial instruments (derivatives) for hedging purposes, which include interest rate swaps,
futures, options and similar instruments. A derivative is designated as non-trading as there is an offset between the effects of potential
movements in market rates on the derivative and the designated non-trading asset, liability or position being hedged. Non-trading
derivatives are reviewed regularly for their effectiveness as hedges.
Under a derogation granted by the Belgian Banking and Finance Commission to Article 36 bis, § 2 of the Royal Decree of 23 September
1992, derivatives entered into for the purposes of asset and liability management can be accounted for as hedges.
Non-trading derivatives are accounted for on an accruals basis, consistent with the assets, liabilities or positions being hedged. Income and
expense on non-trading derivatives are recognised as they accrue over the life of the instruments as an adjustment to the income or
expense of the hedged item.
Where a non-trading derivative no longer represents a hedge because either the underlying non-trading asset, liability or position has been
derecognised, or the effectiveness of the hedge has been undermined, it is restated at fair value and any change in value is taken directly to
the profit and loss account and reported within ‘Profit from (loss on) financial operations’. Thereafter, the derivative is classified as a trading
instrument and accounted for accordingly.
In other circumstances, where non-trading derivatives are terminated, any resulting gains and losses are amortised over the remaining life
of the hedged asset, liability or position. Unamortised gains and losses are reported within ‘Other assets’ and ‘Other liabilities’ on the
balance sheet.
Derivatives hedging anticipatory transactions are accounted for on a basis consistent with the relevant type of transaction. i.e. gains and
losses are not recognised until the period the anticipated transactions occur. When anticipatory transactions do not actually occur, related
derivatives are restated at fair value and changes in value are taken directly to the profit and loss account and reported within ‘Profit from
(loss on) financial operations’.
l] Foreign currencies
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into euros at rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Profit and loss amounts in foreign currencies are translated into euros at the rates prevailing on the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into euros at historical exchange rates.
Spot foreign exchange contracts are translated into euros at market rates and the resulting gains or losses are taken into the profit and loss
account.
The results of branches in foreign currencies are translated at average exchange rates for the year. Exchange differences arising on
consolidation of the Company’s branches are taken to the profit and loss account.
m] Fund for general banking risks
Additions to, and the uses of, a fund for general banking risks are determined by the Board of directors of Euroclear Bank SA/NV.

EXH10061

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Statutory auditor’s report
STATUTORY AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE GENERAL SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF EUROCLEAR BANK SA ON THE ANNUAL
ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015
As required by law and the company’s articles of association, we report to you in the context of our statutory auditor’s mandate. This report
includes our opinion on the annual accounts, as well as the required additional statements. The annual accounts include the balance sheet
as at 31 December 2015, the income statement for the year then ended, and the disclosures.
Report on the annual accounts – Unqualified opinion
We have audited the annual accounts of Euroclear Bank SA (“the Company”) for the year ended
31 December 2015, prepared in accordance with the financial reporting framework applicable to Credit Institutions in Belgium, which show
a balance sheet total of ‘000’ EUR 19.756.364 and a profit for the year of ‘000’ EUR 164.451.
The board of directors’ responsibility for the preparation of the annual accounts
The board of directors is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these annual accounts in accordance with the financialreporting framework applicable in Belgium, and for such internal control as the board of directors determines is necessary to enable the
preparation of annual accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Statutory auditor’s responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these annual accounts based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual accounts are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the annual accounts. The
procedures selected depend on the statutory auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the
annual accounts, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the statutory auditor considers internal control relevant
to the Company’s preparation and fair presentation of the annual accounts in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control. An audit also
includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the board of
directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the annual accounts.
We have obtained from the board of directors and company’s officials the explanations and information necessary for performing our audit.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Unqualified Opinion
In our opinion, the annual accounts give a true and fair view of the Company’s net equity and financial position as at 31 December 2015 and
of its results for the year then ended in accordance with the financial-reporting framework applicable in Belgium.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements
The board of directors is responsible for the preparation and the content of the directors’ report, for the compliance with the applicable
legal and regulatory requirements regarding bookkeeping, the Companies’ Code and the Company’s articles of association.
In the context of our mandate and in accordance with the Belgian standard which is complementary to the International Standards on
Auditing (ISAs) as applicable in Belgium, our responsibility is to verify, in all material respects, compliance with certain legal and
regulatory requirements. On this basis, we provide the following additional statements which do not impact our opinion on the annual
accounts:



The directors’ report includes the information required by the Companies’ Code, is consistent with the financial statements, and does
not present any material inconsistencies with the information that we became aware of during the performance of our mandate.



Without prejudice to formal aspects of minor importance, the accounting records were maintained in accordance with the legal and
regulatory requirements applicable in Belgium.



The appropriation of results proposed to the general meeting complies with the legal provisions and the provisions of the articles of
association.



There are no transactions undertaken or decisions taken in breach of the Company‘s articles of association or the Companies’ Code
that we have to report to you.



In accordance with Article 523 of the Companies’ Code, the financial consequences of the decision of the Board of Directors on 12
January 2015 relating to the compensation scheme for the members of the management committee have been adequately disclosed in
the ‘conflict of interest’ section of the annual report on the statutory accounts.

EXH10062

Exhibit H-1



EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

An interim dividend has been distributed during the year in relation to which we have issued the attached report in accordance with
legal requirements.

Sint-Stevens-Woluwe, 03 March 2016
The statutory auditor
PwC Bedrijfsrevisoren BCVBA
Represented by

Damien Walgrave
Reviseur d’Entreprises Agréé
Attached :

Statutory Auditor’s Report of 4 September 2015 to the Board of Directors of Euroclear Bank SA on the proposed
distribution of an interim dividend, issued in accordance with article 618 of the Companies’ Code

EXH10063

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

STATUTORY AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF EUROCLEAR BANK SA ON THE STATEMENT
OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES IN CONNECTION WITH THE PROPOSED DISTRIBUTION OF AN INTERIM DIVIDEND
Introduction
We have reviewed the accompanying statement of assets and liabilities (hereafter the “Statement”) as of 31 July 2015, included in appendix
of this report, based on which the Board of Directors of Euroclear Bank SA (hereafter “Company”) proposes to distribute an interim
dividend of ‘000 EUR 100.023. The board of directors is responsible for the preparation of this Statement, which should fairly present, in
all material respects, the Company’s capital and financial position in accordance with the financial reporting framework applicable in
Belgium. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on this Statement based on our review, performed in accordance with the related
professional standards and by virtue of Article 618 of the Companies’ Code.
Scope of Review
We conducted our review of the Statement in accordance with the International Standard on Review Engagements 2410, “Review of Interim
Financial Information Performed by the Independent Auditor of the Entity” (ISRE 2410). A review consists in making inquiries, primarily of
persons responsible for financial and accounting matters, and applying analytical and other review procedures. A review is substantially less
in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and, consequently, does not enable us to obtain
assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in an audit. Accordingly, we do not express an
audit opinion.
Conclusion
Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Statement does not fairly present, in all material
respects, the Company’s capital and financial position as of 31 July 2015, in accordance with the financial reporting framework applicable to
Banks in Belgium.
Finally, according to the Statement, and the draft Board resolution submitted to us, the proposed distribution would not lead to a decrease in
the Company’s net assets to an amount lower than the sum of the Company’s paid-up capital and those reserves that the Companies’ Code or
the Company’s Articles of Association do not allow to be distributed, as required by Article 617 of the Companies’ Code.
This report is prepared solely to address the requirements as set by virtue of Article 618 of the Companies’ Code, and may not be used for any
other purpose.
Sint-Stevens-Woluwe, 4 September 2015
The statutory auditor
PwC Bedrijfsrevisoren BCVBA
Represented by

Damien Walgrave
Reviseur d’Entreprises

Appendix: Statement of assets and liabilities as of 31 July 2015

EXH10064

Exhibit H-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXH10065

EXHIBIT I

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
FORM CA-1

Attach as Exhibit I the addresses of all offices in which clearing agency activities are performed
by registrant, or for registrant by any person listed in response to item 4, and identify the nature
of the clearing activities performed in each office listed.
*

*

*

Euroclear Bank engages in Clearing Agency Activities primarily in its main and secondary
offices, which are located at the following addresses:
Euroclear Bank SA/NV
1 Boulevard du Roi Albert II
1210 Brussels, Belgium
Euroclear Bank SA/NV
3 Place du Luxembourg
1420 Braine l’Alleud, Belgium
Euroclear Bank also engages in Clearing Agency Activities through its branches in the following
locations:
Euroclear Bank SA/NV (Hong Kong Branch)
Suite 2001-2003 & 2005
20F Central Plaza
18 Harbour Road
Wanchai, Hong Kong
Euroclear Bank SA/NV (Spółka Akcyjna)
ul. Puszkarska 7H
30-644 Kraków, Poland
Euroclear Bank’s Hong Kong branch provides operational services, technical support and client
sales and relationship management services to the Company’s clients during the Asia-Pacific
region’s business hours. Specifically with respect to operational services, the Hong Kong branch
handles the following functions: income services; settlement support; new issue services; cash
correspondent investigation; FundSettle services; collateral management and money transfer
reconciliations; tax and corporate actions services. The Hong Kong branch also handles certain
Treasury Division functions (e.g., managing day-to-day cash flows and liquidity) and compliance
matters (e.g., undertaking compliance testing and other reviews).
The Kraków branch also provides operational services, including the following: income
services; collateral management; new issue services; corporate actions services; transaction

I-1
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EXHIBIT I

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

processing; EquityReach services; FundSettle services; settlement support; tax operations; fixed
income services and investigations and reconciliations.
Euroclear Bank also maintains a representative office in New York City that provides only
commercial support and other limited activities as permitted by its authorization as a
representative office. No Clearing Agency Activities are performed in this office.
Euroclear Group maintains two data centers in the Paris metropolitan area. Production activity
for Euroclear Group activities (including the Clearing Agency Activities) is transferred between
these sites at least six times a year. A third data center is located hundreds of kilometers from the
primary and secondary sites and provides regional disaster recovery capability.
The names and locations for depositories and cash correspondents used by Euroclear Bank to
hold securities as of the date of this application (including Eligible U.S. Government Securities
and U.S. Equity Securities) or currency in the U.S. are attached as Exhibit I-1.
In addition as described in greater detail in Exhibit S-1, DTC will act as depository for U.S.
Equity Securities and other DTC-eligible securities in connection with the U.S. Equities
Proposal, when the IMS service of DEGCL is launched. DTC is located at the following
address:
The Depository Trust Company
55 Water Street
New York, New York 10041

I-2
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

Exhibit I-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
Exhibit I-1
Depositories and Cash Correspondents
Located in the United States

Below is a list of depositories and cash correspondents used by Euroclear Bank1 to hold
securities as of the date of the Form CA-1 application (including Eligible U.S. Government
Securities and U.S. Equity Securities) or currency in the United States:
Depositories
JPMorgan Chase Bank
270 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10017

Cash Correspondents
Citibank N.A.
388 Greenwich Street
New York, New York 10013
JPMorgan Chase Bank
270 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10017
The Bank of New York
225 Liberty Street
New York, New York 10286

1

Each capitalized term used in this Exhibit I-1 has the meaning set forth in the attached narrative responses to
Exhibits A-S of Form CA-1.

EXI10001

EXHIBIT J

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
FORM CA-1

Attach as Exhibit J narrative descriptions of each service or function performed by the
registrant.
*

*

*

To utilize the Euroclear System services, Euroclear Bank participants are required to open and
maintain securities accounts (referred to as “Securities Clearance Accounts”) and current cash
accounts on the books of Euroclear Bank (collectively, “EB Accounts”). The general Terms and
Conditions, Supplementary Terms and Conditions and Operating Procedures governing the use
of the Euroclear System are attached in Exhibit E.
Participants are able to utilize various services through the Euroclear System, including
clearance and settlement services that are not part of the Clearing Agency Activities. This
Exhibit J contains a description of each of the Euroclear System’s primary services. One of
these services, Euroclear Bank’s collateral management services (“EB-CMS”), will be directly
affected by the U.S. Equities Proposal. As such, the following description provides a general
overview of the Euroclear System’s primary services (some of which are not part of the Clearing
Agency Activities), together with greater detail related to the EB-CMS. The agreements and
other documentation governing the use of the EB-CMS and related services are attached in
Exhibit P. An explanation of the interaction between the EB-CMS and the U.S. Equities
Proposal is provided in Exhibit S-1.
Securities Settlement
The Euroclear System offers settlement services for OTC and exchange-listed securities,
including bonds, equities, money market instruments, government securities and funds. In the
Euroclear System, settlement can take place either against payment or free of payment. The
Euroclear System operates a Delivery Versus Payment (DVP) model 1 system (i.e., providing for
simultaneous settlement of securities and associated cash transfers with immediate settlement
finality for internal and Bridge instructions). For cross-border instructions, local rules apply.
Securities Lending and Borrowing
Euroclear Bank’s securities lending and borrowing program is designed to increase settlement
efficiency. The service provides a mechanism to allow borrowers to obtain securities
immediately when required for delivery, as necessary. The borrowing and lending services
therefore reduce the risk of settlement failure.

J-1
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EXHIBIT J

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

As an additional securities lending program, Euroclear Bank provides a function that enables
participants to lend or borrow securities in exchange for collateral. Borrowers negotiate the
terms of any loan with Euroclear Bank and must provide collateral for every loan.
Custody and Asset Servicing
The Euroclear System’s custody services encompass a range of services, including securities
safekeeping, corporate actions and proxy voting, payment of coupon interest, dividends and
redemptions, market claims and administration of related tax services. The Euroclear System
also offers services related to new issues, including the acceptance of eligible securities and the
distribution of new issues through Euroclear Bank either against or free of payment.
Issuer CSD
Euroclear Bank acts as primary place of deposit for Eurobonds and other international securities.
These type of securities are always issued on a physical basis either under the form of a global
physical certificate (global note) representing the whole issue or under the form of individual
notes (marginal share of the issues) and immobilized by the respective depository. Different
custody structures can be chosen by the issuer (or its agent) for these securities either in bearer or
registered form. Depending on the structure chosen (i.e., New or Classical Global Notes), issued
securities are eligible as collateral for Eurosystem monetary policy and intraday credit
operations. About 200,000 national and international securities are accepted in Euroclear Bank,
including debt securities, depository receipts, equities, warrants and investment funds.
Treasury and Credit
Euroclear Bank grants credit facilities to support its participants’ operations in the Euroclear
System, including securities settlement, borrowing and money transfer operations. Euroclear
Bank’s money transfer services are available both as a service as such and to support the cash
management activities required for settlement and corporate actions. Euroclear Bank maintains
cash accounts in more than 50 currencies.
Investment Funds Services
Euroclear Bank offers an automated investment fund platform that provides to its participants
order routing and processing, corporate action services and related reporting.
Collateral Management Services
Euroclear Bank offers the EB-CMS, which provides collateral management services to parties to
bilateral arrangements that require the posting of collateral by one party (collateral giver) in
favor of the other party (collateral taker) in order to secure a credit exposure arising under such
arrangements (and particular transactions thereunder). The terms of such bilateral arrangements
and the related collateral needs (including the credit exposure, collateral requirements and
J-2
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EXHIBIT J

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

collateral terms) are negotiated between the parties independently of Euroclear Bank and have
been agreed to prior to using the EB-CMS. After such arrangements are agreed, the relevant
Euroclear Bank participants enter into an agreement with Euroclear Bank to provide the
collateral management services (an “EB-CMS Services Agreement”). Euroclear Bank
participants may use the EB-CMS to manage their outstanding collateral obligations under the
arrangements and EB-CMS Services Agreement. EB-CMS include the following services:
•

collection, validation and storage of information regarding the terms of the collateral
obligation;

•

independent verification that the collateral proposed and provided by the collateral
giver meets the terms reported by the counterparties and stored on the EB-CMS for
the duration of the collateral obligation;

•

monitoring and reporting on the status of the collateral obligations, based on
information provided by the counterparties;

•

generating instructions which are communicated to Euroclear Bank’s settlement
processing infrastructure to transfer collateral between the EB Accounts of collateral
giver (which is generally the giver’s primary settlement account) and the EB
Accounts of collateral taker (which will be a segregated account only for holding
collateral, referred to below as the “Collateral Account”);

•

interacting with Euroclear Bank’s other primary services to facilitate asset servicing
of collateral (e.g., processing and correctly allocating proceeds of corporate actions
in accordance with parameters set by the counterparties and the EB-CMS
procedures);

•

optionally, using the “AutoSelect” feature to automatically identify, propose and
select asset lines to be used as collateral (including initial allocations, top-ups,
withdrawals or substitutions), within parameters set by the relevant EB-CMS users;
and

•

optionally, automatically facilitating re-use of collateral by a collateral taker through
the EB-CMS, if permitted by the bilateral agreement between the counterparties.

Instructions to move collateral that are generated by the EB-CMS are exclusively processed by
Euroclear Bank’s settlement processing infrastructure, and are subject to the same protocols and
validation rules that apply to normal settlement activities in EB Accounts. As further described
in Exhibit S-1, these protocols and validation rules currently include procedures that prevent
receipt and use of U.S. Equity Securities by U.S. Participants for any purpose in EB Accounts.
Euroclear Bank also provides certain other services to complement its EB-CMS, including the
open inventory sourcing (“OIS”) services, the RepoAccess service and the collateral allocation
J-3
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EXHIBIT J

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

interface service. The OIS services enable its participants to use assets they hold with their
domestic agents as collateral for multiple types of transactions in Euroclear Bank. Through its
RepoAccess service, Euroclear Bank enables a participant to outsource the set-up of required
bilateral master agreement to Euroclear Bank, within the collateral terms (or tolerances) set by
the participant with its counterparties. The collateral allocation interface service supports the
automatic allocation, settlement and monitoring of collateral between a collateral giver and a
collateral taker.

J-4
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EXHIBIT K

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
FORM CA-1

Attach as Exhibit K a description of the measures or procedures employed by registrant to
provide for the security of any system which performs the functions of a clearing agency.
Include a general description of any operational safeguards designed to prevent unauthorized
access to the system (including unauthorized input or retrieval of information for which the
primary record source is not hard copy). Identify any instances within the past year in which the
described security measures or safeguards failed to prevent unauthorized access to the system
and describe any measures taken to prevent a recurrence of any such incident. Describe also
any measures used to verify the accuracy of information received or disseminated by the system.
*

*

*

Euroclear Bank does not segregate an IT infrastructure for its Clearing Agency Activities that is
separate from the IT infrastructure that is used for its other clearance and settlement activities.
As such, this Exhibit K contains a description of the measures and procedures employed by
Euroclear Bank to provide for the security of its clearance and settlement systems, including
systems that may not directly relate to the Clearing Agency Activities.
In certain instances, the systems, resources, facilities and personnel that comprise Euroclear
Bank’s IT infrastructure are provided pursuant to intercompany services agreements between
Euroclear Bank and ESA or other Euroclear Group affiliates, and references in Exhibit K and
Exhibit M to systems, resources, facilities and personnel are, where applicable, to activities that
are supplied to Euroclear Bank pursuant to the intercompany services agreements. The
intercompany services agreements are attached hereto as Exhibit C-2 and Exhibit C-3.
Physical Security
General Policies and Procedures
The Euroclear Group Operational Risk Board Policy (attached as Exhibit K-1) comprises policy
goals for corporate and information security. In addition, more detailed procedures have been
adopted at various geographic locations to take local conditions into account. The objective of
these policies is to prevent unauthorized physical access, damage and interference to business
premises and information and to prevent loss, damage, theft or harm to assets (including
personnel) and interruption to Euroclear Bank’s activities. These policies require critical or
sensitive business information processing facilities to be housed in secure areas, protected by a
defined security perimeter, with appropriate security barriers and entry controls.
When compliance with any security standard outlined in the relevant policies and procedures is
not achieved, a formal risk assessment is to be made and an exception is reported either for
mitigation or for acceptance by senior management.
K-1
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EXHIBIT K

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Change management and project management policies and processes require that risks related to
physical security be identified, assessed and mitigated in compliance with the Operational Risk
Board Policy.
Physical Security for Data Centers
With respect to the data centers hosting Euroclear Bank systems, physical access is restricted to
specified employees routinely employed in the data centers, and controlled by an electronic
badge and a secondary authentication control mechanism (PIN code or biometric). Prior
notification is required for all visitors to data centers, who are escorted throughout their visit.
Access key cards are issued to authorized employees using formal procedures and on a
need-to-have basis. Security cameras monitor access to the building as well as other critical
areas. Any significant security incidents are formally reported to Euroclear Bank management.
Areas housing critical technology assets are protected by the following environmental controls:
•

fire and water detection mechanisms;

•

fire suppression mechanisms;

•

uninterruptible power supply (UPS) and generator systems;

•

temperature and humidity monitoring; and

•

increased housing and cabling robustness.

The environmental conditions are monitored via a centralized alarm system in the security room.
Maintenance and testing of the computer and environmental management equipment are done on
a regular basis.
Information Security
General Policies and Procedures
As noted above, the Euroclear Group Operational Risk Board Policy sets forth policy goals for
information security, which includes identifying, monitoring, assessing and managing
information security vulnerabilities and threats on an ongoing basis. Information security is
defined within this policy as the protection of critical assets by preserving the following:
•

confidentiality, by ensuring that access to critical assets is not made available to
unauthorized individuals, entities or processes;

•

integrity, by ensuring that critical assets are not removed, corrupted, damaged or
harmed; and

•

availability, by ensuring that critical assets are available when required.

K-2
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EXHIBIT K

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Euroclear Group also has implemented the Information Security Management System
Management Resolution (attached as Exhibit K-2), which describes how information security is
organized, managed, implemented and monitored. This Management Resolution outlines the
roles and responsibilities for various information security managers and other personnel. In
addition, this Management Resolution prescribes more detailed information security control
principles and measures to protect critical assets of Euroclear Bank and its participants.
Information security is addressed through the implementation of controls in four domains:
•

physical and environmental security;

•

personnel security;

•

logical security; and

•

business continuity management.

Euroclear Bank periodically assesses whether its information security protocols properly
conform to various internationally recognized standards and reference frameworks.
Project Management
Euroclear Bank’s project management framework mandates risk assessments to be done before
implementation starts and before delivery to production. At these check points, information
security requirements and residual risks are assessed and appropriate mitigation actions are
initiated, if needed.
All changes to the production environment (including hardware, software and network devices)
must be formally approved before implementation. Changes to the production environment are
only made subject to the following standardized processes and controls:
•

Changes (including to hardware, network devices and software) are recorded
electronically through a change request form that must be approved by authorized
staff.

•

A test strategy is defined well in advance and approved, determining the level of
testing appropriate to the change or project.

•

The production launch process is controlled by the Change Advisory Board, which is
a committee specifically designated to review changes and, as appropriate, verify
that an impact analysis was conducted and that all required approvals are present.
Documentation and approvals are recorded in the change management system.

•

A verification is done to help ensure that earlier identified needs relating to required
user training, changes in operational procedures and other support considerations
have been adequately addressed.
K-3
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EXHIBIT K

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

•

A group independent from the development team performs the transfer of
executables into the production environment using automated tools that are only
available to authorized individuals.

•

The tools provide a complete audit trail of all transfers into production.

In case of system blockage or non-availability, emergency changes may be implemented
following strict procedures and authorization. Changes performed during an emergency are
reviewed by the domain experts to make sure they are properly documented and are in line with
coding and infrastructure standards.
Internet-facing applications are reviewed before launch by external experts to help ensure
security and robustness. Vulnerability assessment and penetration tests are conducted on a
regular basis with the support of specialized providers.
More information related to physical security and information security is available in Section IV,
Principle 17 of the Disclosure Framework – Observance by Euroclear Bank of the CPMI-IOSCO
Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures, which is attached hereto as Exhibit K-5. More
information also is available in Section 5 of the 2014 Euroclear Bank ISAE 3402 Report, which
is attached hereto as Exhibit K-6.
Please also see Eplc’s most recent Pillar 3 Disclosure document, which is attached hereto as
Exhibit K-7.

K-4
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Disclosure
Framework
Observance by

Euroclear Bank
of the CPMI-IOSCO Principles
for Financial Market Infrastructures
30 October 2015

EXK50001

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Table of contents
I. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ............................................................................................................. 3 
II. SUMMARY OF MAJOR CHANGES SINCE THE LAST UPDATE OF THE DISCLOSURE ..... 7 
III. GENERAL BACKGROUND ON THE FMI ............................................................................... 10 
IV. PRINCIPLE-BY-PRINCIPLE SUMMARY NARRATIVE DISCLOSURE................................. 20 
Principle 1: Legal basis .................................................................................................................. 21 
Principle 2: Governance ................................................................................................................. 27 
Principle 3: Framework for the comprehensive management of risks ............................................. 39 
Principle 4: Credit risk .................................................................................................................... 52 
Principle 5: Collateral ..................................................................................................................... 58 
Principle 6: Margin.......................................................................................................................... 62 
Principle 7: Liquidity risk ................................................................................................................. 63 
Principle 8: Settlement finality ........................................................................................................ 74 
Principle 9: Money settlements....................................................................................................... 77 
Principle 10: Physical deliveries ..................................................................................................... 79 
Principle 11: Central Securities Depositories (CSD) ....................................................................... 80 
Principle 12: Exchange-of-value settlement systems...................................................................... 83 
Principle 13: Client-default rules and procedures ........................................................................... 84 
Principle 14: Segregation and portability ........................................................................................ 87 
Principle 15: General business risk ................................................................................................ 88 
Principle 16: Custody and investment risks .................................................................................... 93 
Principle 17: Operational risk.......................................................................................................... 95 
Principle 18: Access and participation requirements .................................................................... 116 
Principle 19: Tiered participation arrangements ........................................................................... 120 
Principle 20: FMI links .................................................................................................................. 123 
Principle 21: Efficiency and effectiveness ..................................................................................... 127 
Principle 22: Communication procedures and standards .............................................................. 130 
Principle 23: Disclosure of rules, key procedures, and market data ............................................. 131 
Principle 24: Disclosure of market data by trade repositories ....................................................... 139 

1
EXK50002

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Euroclear Bank
DISCLOSURE
FRAMEWORK 2015

Responding institution: Euroclear Bank SA
Jurisdiction(s) in which the FMI operates: Belgium
Authority(ies) regulating, supervising or overseeing the FMI: National Bank of Belgium and Financial
Services & Market Authorities
The date of this disclosure is 30/10/2015.
This disclosure can also be found at www.euroclear.com
For further information, please contact Benedicte Waerseggers – tel: 00 32 2 326 1496.

2
EXK50003

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

I. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
General organisation
Euroclear Bank has
- a well-founded, clear, transparent, and enforceable legal basis for each material aspect of its activities.
- clear and transparent governance arrangements that promote its safety and efficiency and support
the stability of the broader financial system.
- policies, procedures and systems to identify, monitor and manage the range of risks it faces thanks to
adequate policies (including back-tests) and solid internal controls systems fed by the three lines of
defense.

Credit and liquidity risk management
Euroclear Bank
- has no history of credit losses due to client defaults. Its credit exposures are managed through credit
limits and full collateralisation.
- covers its clients' credit exposures with adequate collateral. The collateral valuation model of Euroclear
Bank is regularly back- and stress tested.
- monitors its clients' collateral portfolio composition, including concentration, on a regular basis.

Settlement
- Both the points of settlement finality and irrevocability are clearly defined in Euroclear Bank’s Operating
Procedures. Settlement can be done internally, externally or via the Bridge with Clearstream Banking
Luxembourg.
- Money settlement in all eligible settlement currencies is carried out in commercial bank money in the
books of Euroclear Bank; which is, as reconfirmed by Fitch in October 2015, an AA+ rated limited-purpose
bank.
- The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System clearly state the specific rules in relation to the receipt
and delivery of physical instruments. Euroclear Bank manages the risk related to physical settlement
through adequate due diligence and insurance.

3
EXK50004

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Central securities depositories and exchange-of value settlement systems
- Euroclear Bank has adequate rules, procedures and controls to safeguard the rights of the securities
issuers and holders.
- It prevents unauthorised creation or deletion of securities.
- The majority of securities movements and balances are reconciled on a daily basis. Debit balances or
overdrafts are prohibited.
- All securities that are settled in the system are immobilised or dematerialised.
- Euroclear Bank segregates its own securities from those of its clients in its own books and/or at the level
of Euroclear Bank’s Depositories.
- New services go through an approval process and risk assessment before they can be offered to clients.
- The Euroclear system is a Model 1 DVP system: internal and Bridge instructions are settled between
clients on a trade-by-trade (gross) basis, with finality of the transfer of securities from the seller to the
buyer occurring at the same time as the finality of transfer of funds from the buyer to the seller. For crossborder instructions, the local rules apply.

Default management
- Euroclear Bank has adequate rules and procedures to cope with a client default.
- These rules have been tested life in several bankruptcy/insolvency cases of Euroclear Bank clients.
- Relevant aspects of the default rules and procedures are publicly disclosed.

General business and operational risk management
- Euroclear Bank has robust management and control systems to identify, monitor and manage general
business risks.
- Euroclear Bank has more than sufficient high quality liquid net assets to cover

o

six months of current operating expenses and

o

the time needed to implement the recovery plan, which was approved by the Board in
October 2015. This recovery plan includes options on raising additional capital in case of
need.

4
EXK50005

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

- Euroclear Bank holds its own and clients’ assets in custody at supervised and regulated entities and
ensures via a legal opinion that the ownership rights for its clients’ and own assets are adequately
protected.
- The total stock of securities that Euroclear Bank holds is diversified over several ‘Common Depositories’
(for Eurobonds) and more than 40 local Depositories.
- Euroclear Bank’s capital is invested in debt securities with a rating of at least AA+.
- Euroclear Bank has a thorough business continuity management and plans in place, based on three data
centers, which allow resuming operations within two hours following local disasters and within four hours
following regional disasters.

Access
- Euroclear Bank’s admission criteria are risk based and allow for fair and open access. They have recently
been updated to take into account the implementation of the Settlement Finality Directive and CSDR.
- These criteria aim to minimise financial and other risks to Euroclear Bank, the system and its users.
- Euroclear Bank ensures that clients continue to fulfil these requirements on a yearly basis via the
‘sponsorship review’ process.
- Euroclear Bank does not allow for tiered participation arrangements in its system as contractual
relationships exist only with direct clients.

Links
- Euroclear Bank has processes in place to identify potential sources of risk arising from market links. Such
as a risk assessment on the local market and the candidate agents, when opening a link, continuous
monitoring thereafter and an in-depth market link review every three years.
- Euroclear Bank has an interoperable link with Clearstream Banking Luxembourg that generates specific
credit exposures and adapted monitoring procedures between both international CSDs.

Efficiency & communication
Being user-owned and user-governed, the Euroclear group is committed to meet the needs of its clients
and the markets it serves efficiently and effectively.

5
EXK50006

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Euroclear Bank also monitors
-

the evolutions in the market and conducts an annual client survey

-

its efficiency and effectiveness via a Balanced Scorecard (including financial, business
operational, risk and other objectives) and various Key Performance Indicators and Key
Risk Indicators on an ongoing basis

Euroclear Bank uses internationally accepted communications standards.

Transparency
- Euroclear discloses a lot of information on the company itself, the services it provides, etc. on its website.
- This allows its clients to accurately identify the risks associated with the use of the system.
- Euroclear Bank has recently conducted a complete review of its Operating Procedures to increase the
ease of understanding of the rules and risks that clients face.
- Euroclear Bank publishes, on a yearly basis, a Disclosure Framework and an ISAE 3402.
Since the beginning of 2015, Euroclear Bank is adapting all its governance, controls, policy and procedures
to become compliant with CSDR. The IT developments to become compliant with Settlement Discipline,
Record Keeping and Banking parts start as from Q4 2015.

	

6
EXK50007

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

II. SUMMARY OF MAJOR CHANGES SINCE THE LAST UPDATE OF THE DISCLOSURE
Euroclear Bank has continued to invest in regulation-driven initiatives that not only ensure compliance with
the market infrastructure regulatory framework but also support cost mutualisation and open access.
Clients and other market clients seek enhanced visibility, greater collateral mobility and access to liquidity,
as well as operating safety, speed and resilience through higher levels of process automation.

Operating in an evolving post-trade environment
The post-trade environment is evolving, driven by factors including new regulation.
Wave 1 of the European Central Bank’s Target2-Securities (T2S) platform for euro-denominated CSDs was
successfully launched on 22nd June: Euroclear Bank adapted its links, as from the launch, to Greece and
Switzerland (new settlement deadlines and format adaptation). The Italian CSD Monte Titoli launched on
30th August 2015; Euroclear Bank was ready with the adaptation as from the initially planned launch date.
EB is now working on the following T2S waves.
Euroclear Bank is also working on the compliance with provisions of the Central Securities Depositories
Regulation (CSDR), which came into force in September 2014. It has delivered a first draft filing to NBB
on 30/10/2015. The final filing to obtain the license is expected end of July 2016.
Euroclear Bank delivered end September 2015– together with Clearstream Banking Luxemburg- Phase 1
of the Bridge settlement enhancements, which provides greater flexibility and increased efficiency for
clients. Phase 1 brought significant improvement to input deadlines, in particular for core currencies, more
efficient settlement turnaround time in the afternoon and the extension of interoperability between the two
ICSDs at the end of the day.
Euroclear Bank is continuously improving its servicing offering in response to client needs. Enhancements
in 2015 include additional features to the new web based client interface Easy Way. It includes enhanced
reporting of elective corporate actions and reporting of proceeds, features to instruct and monitor collateral
management operations, launch of EasyWay Settlement and some T2S- linked enhancements.

Collateral management
In 2012, Euroclear Bank launched the Collateral Highway - the world’s first open architecture global
infrastructure for collateral management. The Collateral Highway has continued to grow in 2014, driven by
demand by market clients for a neutral, inter-operable, venue-agnostic utility to source and mobilise
collateral across geographical borders and time zones. In 2014, average daily collateralised outstandings
reached €883 billion, representing 12% year-on-year growth. Over the past year, the range and
involvement of market clients on the Collateral Highway have continued to expand, with new clients
including Standard Chartered and BNP Paribas Securities.
Following our 2013 agreement with the Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation (DTCC), the joint venture
company DTCC-Euroclear GlobalCollateral Ltd was launched in September 2014. Building on our leadership
7
EXK50008

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

position in collateral management, the joint venture seeks to deliver unprecedented operating efficiencies
to market clients and improve the stability and soundness of financial markets.
GlobalCollateral Ltd. will enable the automatic transfer and segregation of collateral based on agreed margin
calls relating to over-the-counter derivatives and other collateralised contracts. This joint venture will
contribute to the Collateral Highway interoperability objective by connecting two of the largest pools of
collateral. It will also contribute significantly to reducing settlement risk, increasing transparency around
collateral processing on a global basis and providing maximum asset protection for all clients.
Euroclear continued to deliver key components of the Collateral Highway in 2014 and 2015, including:
• Open Inventory Sourcing (OIS) technology was expanded to include equities, broadening the domestic
market asset classes that clients can use for international financing via Euroclear Bank.
• Our triparty service for Eurosystem cross-border financing was launched, which followed the ECB’s further
relaxation of its repatriation principle. This enables clients to use our full range of triparty services to
mobilise assets held in Euroclear Bank or the ESES CSDs to post collateral to the National Bank of Belgium
or Banque de France, when accessing liquidity at the central bank of their home country.
• €GCPlus was launched, in collaboration with LCH. Clearnet and Banque de France, providing risk managers
with a secure and streamlined inter-bank liquidity management tool that blends the efficiency of triparty
repo with the safety of central bank money and a substantial reduction in use of balance sheet with a
Central Counterparties (CCP)-cleared product. Using baskets of ECB-eligible securities, €GCPlus was
launched to meet the demand for access to more high quality liquid assets largely driven by new capital
requirement regulation.
• The Collateral Highway extended its operating hours in order to cover the full working day in Asia, enabling
This enables them to offer a more global collateral management service. In 2015, we continue to on-board
agents, CSDs, CCPs and central banks around the world and to upgrade infrastructure and services to
better serve the needs of clients, in line with the implementation of regulatory reforms that affect our
clients’ business models.

Serving the funds industry
Euroclear is one of the largest providers of fund processing services in Europe with over 11.3 million orders
routed through our platforms in 2014. We offer a single entry point for the effective distribution of crossborder, offshore and domestic funds, providing significant opportunities for cost and risk reduction.
Euroclear Bank also entered into a cooperation agreement with SIX Securities Services in September 2014,
the Swiss international post-trade services provider, to provide more cost- and risk-efficient fund services
to Swiss investors through FundSettle. Mutual clients benefitted from market proximity, with SIX covering
17 primarily Swiss market securities and clients, combined with our extensive global network of over 500
transfer agents.

8
EXK50009

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Euroclearability – creating access to developing markets
Open access to the international capital markets is an important enabler for macroeconomic growth.
Domestic issuers in growth markets around the world seek wider funding opportunities than may currently
exist, in order to support local development. Likewise, global investors are looking for ways to get closer
and more substantively participate in growth markets to benefit from higher and more diversified returns.
To this end, Euroclear Bank made further progress in strengthening its franchise around the world, with
continued success in bringing ‘euroclearability’ to domestic capital markets that might otherwise have
limited access to global clients.
In June 2015 Euroclear Bank and China Construction Bank (CCB) signed a Memorandum of Understanding
in the presence of the prime ministers of China and Belgium, to further develop the offshore Renminbi
(RMB) products across the world via the EB platform. Euroclear Bank has also penned an account with
Hong Kong’s Central Securities Depositary, which will give our clients the possibility to access China
domiciled funds through Euroclear’s automated fund processing platform – (FundSettle) under the Mainland
Hong Kong Mutual Recognition of Funds (MRF) initiative. Furthermore, in February 2015, Euroclear Bank
and Peru’s Ministry of Economy and Finance have signed a Memorandum of Cooperation committing to
cooperate in the development of a new international link for Peru.
Euroclear is also supporting the ETF industry to overcome inefficiencies linked to market fragmentation, by
promoting an international ETF structure. Under this structure, both new issues and settlement of
transactions can take place in an international CSD. In 2014 and 2015 Euroclear made further progress,
with two major players converting domestically issued ETF into the international structure. During the first
half of 2015, Euroclear’s international ETF structure was selected by the China Construction Bank (CCB)
for the first ever RMB-denominated money market international ETF, with listings completed in London and
Paris.

9
EXK50010

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

III.	GENERAL	BACKGROUND	ON	THE	FMI	
A. General	description	of	the	FMI	and	the	markets	it	serves	
Euroclear Bank provides multi-currency settlement and custody services for domestic and international
securities to a wide range of international clients, which are mostly banks, custodians, broker-dealers and
central banks. In addition to its core settlement and custody services, Euroclear Bank offers related services
such as new issues distribution, securities lending and money transfer. Acting as a limited purpose bank,
Euroclear Bank provides its clients with a limited range of banking services directly bound to the settlement
activity.
Description of the FMI’s basic business processes and activities


New issues

Euroclear Bank acts as primary place of deposit for Eurobonds and other international securities. These
type of securities are always issued on a physical basis either under the form of a global physical certificate
(global note) representing the whole issue or under the form of individual notes (marginal share of the
issues) and immobilised by their Depository.
Different custody structures can be chosen by the issuer (or its agent) for these securities either in bearer
of registered form. Depending on the structure chosen (i.e. New or Classical Global Notes), issued securities
are eligible as collateral for Eurosystem monetary policy and intraday credit operations.
All newly issued global bearer form securities with the ICSDs as primary place of deposit - in order to be
ESCB eligible - should be issued in New Global Note (NGN) form, as of 1 January 2007, and deposited with
either Euroclear Bank or Clearstream Banking Luxembourg as ICSD Common Safekeeper.
In accordance with Eurosystem rules, the NGN is serviced by a Common Service Provider (in charge of
providing asset services to the ICSDs) and a Common Safekeeper (in charge of safekeeping the NGN
throughout its life). Similarly, new global form registered securities issued after 1 October 2010 have to be
safekept by and registered in the name of a nominee of the ICSD as Common Safekeeper and serviced by
a Common Service Provider in order to be ESCB eligible. Newly issued securities with a Classical Global
Note (CGN) structure, represented by a bearer or registered form Global Note that is deposited with a
Common Depository on behalf of the two ICSDs that provides safekeeping and asset servicing for such
securities, are no longer ESCB-eligible (whereas older CGN issues remain ESCB eligible until their maturity).


Securities clearing & settlement

About 200,000 national and international securities are accepted in Euroclear Bank, including debt
securities, depository receipts, equities, warrants and investment funds.

10
EXK50011

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Securities Clearing
Euroclear Bank offers clearing services through the Euroclear Trade Capture and Matching System (ETCMS).
The service includes automated matching and routing of trade confirmations to the central counterparty
(currently LCH.Clearnet group).
ETCMS has been developed to facilitate the collection of trades in the frame of cash and repo netting.
The ETCMS service includes:

o

real-time validation of the confirmation messages;

o

real-time matching of trade details of the counterparties’ messages; and

o

real-time sending of the matched instructions to the Central Counterparty

o

access to:


RepoClear

for

Over-The-Counter

(OTC)

cash

and

repurchase

transactions

(LCH.Clearnet Ltd.)


Clearnet for OTC cash and repurchase transactions (LCH.Clearnet SA).

Securities Settlement
Settlement services are Euroclear Bank’s main activity.
The full range of internationally traded securities are eligible for transfer and settlement. This includes debt
securities, equities, convertibles, warrants, fund shares and Depository Receipts.
Settlement can take place:

o

against payment - A simultaneous exchange of cash, in any of the more than 50
currencies accepted, and securities; or

o

free of payment - The delivery is free of payment or the exchange of cash is arranged in
a different way.

Securities settlement transaction instructions are:

o

submitted to Euroclear Bank directly by clients or certain trading systems; or

o

generated automatically based on the options the client has selected.

Euroclear Bank applies the Delivery Versus Payment (DVP) model 1, i.e. simultaneous settlement of
securities and associated cash transfers with immediate settlement finality for internal and Bridge
instructions. For cross-border instructions, local rules apply.
As it does not have access to central bank accounts/facilities in all settlement currencies, Euroclear Bank
makes use of a large network of cash correspondents to offer multi-currency services to their international
clients. Euroclear Bank has only direct clients (no tiering) and many clients do not have access to central
bank money themselves. For the four main currencies (EUR, USD, GBP and JPY), Euroclear Bank has several
cash correspondents. The cash correspondents act as liquidity providers and are the link between Euroclear
Bank and the national payment system in the country of the currency.
11
EXK50012

Exhibit K-5


EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
Money Transfer

Money transfer services are available in Euroclear Bank both as a service as such and to support the cash
management activities required for settlement and corporate actions. These services enable clients to
manage Cash Accounts maintained in any of the more than 50 different currencies.
Cash Accounts with Euroclear Bank represent:

o

actual cash deposits and claims against Euroclear Bank; or

o

actual cash advances and claims against clients.

Euroclear Bank in turn maintains a network of correspondent banks that provide access to the national
cash clearing systems. These correspondent banks are major local banks chosen for their high quality
service and creditworthiness. Euroclear Bank is also a direct member of the Belgian Real Time Gross
Settlement (RTGS) system, which provides direct access to the Trans-European Automated Real-time Gross
settlement Express Transfer (TARGET2) system.
Clients’ money transfer instructions are executed through:

o

the real-time process, and

o

for incoming or outgoing payment, one of Euroclear Bank’s Cash Correspondents.

The money transfer system also provides validation and communication services.


Securities Lending & Borrowing

The Securities Lending and Borrowing Programme is designed to increase settlement efficiency. For:

o

borrowers, the service provides a mechanism to obtain securities immediately when
required for delivery, if they otherwise lack such securities in Euroclear Bank. Borrowers
therefore reduce the risk of settlement failure for themselves and their counterparties.

o

lenders, the programme provides a mechanism to increase security yields through lending
fees. Lent securities remain included as collateral to secure lenders’ credit arrangements,
if such securities are normally pledged, but are excluded when calculating lenders’
safekeeping fees.

The Securities Lending and Borrowing Programme is governed by:

o

the Supplementary Terms and Conditions governing the Lending and Borrowing of
Securities through Euroclear.

o

section 22 of the Operating Procedures.

The service is an integrated component of the batch and real-time process. clients must explicitly subscribe
to the service by completing various subscription forms, indicating options selected and securities subject
to lending and borrowing. Borrowers of securities must also complete credit documentation with Euroclear
Bank and define a borrowing cap.

12
EXK50013

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The classes of securities eligible for lending and borrowing are identified in Euroclear Bank documentation.
Securities are usually eligible for the programme, except if regulations in the jurisdiction of issue do not
permit the lending and borrowing of securities.
Under the programme, securities available for lending are made available to Borrowers in an aggregated
pool. The securities available within the pool are allocated according to defined rules. There are no direct
links between a particular Borrower and a particular Lender. A Borrower’s identity is never revealed to a
Lender and vice versa. Euroclear Bank arranges for the borrowing and lending of securities on behalf of
Borrowers and Lenders, and serves as an agent (‘commissionaire’ in Belgian Law) between the parties to
ensure the confidentiality of clients’ positions.


Triparty Collateral Management services

Euroclear Bank offers collateral management services to clients to collateralise exposures across products,
instruments and counterparties using a single collateral pool. Euroclear Bank collateral management
products include the following:

o

Triparty Repo

o

Triparty Securities Lending

o

Triparty Secured Loans

o

Triparty Derivatives Support

o

Triparty Collateral Services

o

Collateral Allocation Interface

Collateral management services include:
o

deal matching

o

collateral eligibility verification and selection

o

delivery against or free of payment of collateral

o

daily mark-to-market functions

o

collateral substitution

o

margin maintenance

o

custody event management

o

reporting

Collateral management services are available during the batch and the real-time processes.
A service agreement documenting these services must be executed between Euroclear Bank, as collateral
management service agent and clients using the service. The service agreement includes the:
o

Terms and Conditions

o

Annexes to the Terms and Conditions (Collateral Schedules agreed between the
counterparties)

o

Operating Procedures

13
EXK50014

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Annexes to the Terms and Conditions allow the client to specify the eligible securities for Triparty
transactions and define different types of risk management tools:
o

Eligibility criteria - clients can define various risk profiles by mixing different eligibility
criteria such as rating, instrument type, currency, issuer, sector, etc.

o

Concentration limits - clients can limit the risk on certain categories of securities. They
can establish concentration limits (in absolute terms or in percentage of the transaction
size) on securities, categories of securities, and issuers.

o

Margins - clients can define a variety of margins. They can do so based on several criteria,
such as rating, issuer type, instrument type, price volatility and time to maturity.

o

General options - There are also a number of general options which counterparties need
to agree as part of their contractual agreement.



Asset servicing

Euroclear Bank offers a large number of custody services facilitating the exercise of securities holders’
rights and corporate actions, including:


safekeeping of securities
o

corporate actions and proxy voting

o

payment of coupon interest, dividends and redemptions

o

market claims

o

administration of related tax services

Considering the processes, custody services can be grouped into several main categories:
o

Information collection and distribution - Custody services are supported by various
continuous and automated communication mechanisms which notify clients of upcoming
corporate actions, including redemption and income payments.

o

Processing of instructions - This category relates to the actual execution of custody
instructions. Not all custody operations require the same processing steps, and parties external
to Euroclear Bank may handle part of the execution (e.g. Securities Agents).

o

Proceeds payments - Upon receipt of cash or securities, and after internal reconciliation, the
proceeds are paid out to the entitled clients.

o

Reporting on the results of custody operations - Reporting is available to allow clients to
monitor their activity.

o

Investigations - Inconsistencies are investigated and are timely and adequately solved.

o

Client services - The client services teams ensure that client inquiries, either by phone or in
writing, are timely and adequately responded to.

14
EXK50015

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV



Investment Funds services

FundSettle International is an internet-based system that permits centralised fund distribution on a crossborder basis. It has been designed for high-volume, cross-border fund transactions and provides a single
access point between fund distributors and transfer agents worldwide.
Key objectives of FundSettle International are:

o

tailor-made fund order processing, i.e. identification of distributors/dealers at order input,
multi-currency facility, processing of subscription, redemption, switch and transfer orders;

o

extensive real-time and customised reporting facilities;

o

a dedicated FundSettle client support service;

o

an extensive funds information database;

o

the provision of corporate action information; and

o

the processing of dividend payments and related instructions.

Through the FundSettle platform, Euroclear Bank provides the following services to its clients (in their
capacity as fund investors, intermediaries or distributors):

o

order routing and processing (either subscription, redemption, switch or transfer orders);

o

corporate action services; and

o

reporting.

Before the actual processing of orders, a dedicated team needs to:

o

accept and check the eligibility of the funds, based on pre-defined criteria; and

o

maintain the FundSettle database. The database includes information on transfer agents, cut-offs,
settlement cycles, etc.

Euroclear Bank also provides a number of income and corporate action services for funds. In principle,
the execution of these is similar to related operations for other asset classes. However, the market players
that intervene in the process differ. FundSettle custody distribution includes:

o

any distribution of fund shares or other securities

o

cash payments made by a fund or its agents resulting from FundSettle instructions.

15
EXK50016

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

B. General	organisation	of	the	FMI	
Euroclear Bank, a bank incorporated under Belgian law, is the ICSD of the Euroclear group. The Euroclear
group also comprises a CSD for UK and the Republic of Ireland (Euroclear UK & Ireland), France (Euroclear
France), the Netherlands (Euroclear Nederland), Sweden (Euroclear Sweden), Finland (Euroclear Finland)
and for Belgium (Euroclear Belgium).
Euroclear plc, incorporated in the UK, is the ultimate holding company of the Euroclear group. It owns
Euroclear SA/NV a Belgian financial holding company, which is the parent company of the group (I)CSDs.
Euroclear SA acts as the group service company and provides a broad range of common services to the
group (I)CSDs such as IT production and development, audit, financial, risk management, legal,
compliance, human resources, sales and relationship management, strategy and public affairs and product
management. The Euroclear group’s shares are largely owned by the users of its services.

C. Legal	and	regulatory	framework	
Euroclear Bank has the status of a credit and settlement institution under Royal Decree n°62 recognised
as a ‘central securities depository for financial instruments’ (Royal Decree of 22 August 2002).
Euroclear Bank is submitted to the banking law dated 22 March 1993 and the new banking law dated 7
May 2014 . It is not submitted to the Royal Decree dated 26 September 2005 because Article 1 states that
it applies to all settlement institutions except those having the status of credit institution.
Euroclear Bank is submitted to the Regulation 575/2013 of 26 June 2013 on prudential requirements for
credit institutions and investment firms (CRR) IV and Regulation 909/2014 of 23 July 2014 on improving
securities settlement in the European Unions and on central securities depositaries (CSDR).

16
EXK50017

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Euroclear Bank is supervised by NBB and FSMA in accordance with the following competences:

1. NBB
1.1 Legal competences
Under Article 8 of the NBB Organic Law, the NBB shall ensure that the clearing settlement and payment
systems operate properly and shall make certain that they are efficient and sound (oversight).
Without prejudice to the above-mentioned powers of oversight, the NBB is also responsible, under Articles
36/2, 36/3 and 36/26 of the NBB Organic Law and under the RD 26/09/2005, for prudential supervision
(including the issuance of authorisations) of credit institutions and settlement institutions like Euroclear
Bank and Euroclear Belgium.
1.2 Oversight and prudential supervision
1.2.1 NBB oversight
The NBB assesses the Euroclear Bank and ESES systems against the CPMI-IOSCO Recommendations. Best
practices are also taken into account where appropriate e.g. in the field of operational reliability/business
continuity, liquidity and links. The NBB oversight applies a risk-based approach in defining its priorities.
The NBB oversight is responsible for both oversight implementation and policy issues.
1.2.2. NBB Prudential supervision
In its capacity as prudential supervisor, the NBB verifies that credit institutions or settlement institutions
like Euroclear Bank and Euroclear Belgium meet the authorisation requirements and operating criteria laid
down in the laws and regulations. This implies inter alia that the NBB ascertains that the institution’s
organisation and functioning are appropriate, and carries out supervision over its activities and financial
situation. Where the institution is a subsidiary of a financial holding company such as Euroclear SA for
Euroclear Bank and Euroclear Belgium), the supervision on a standalone basis is complemented with a
supervision on a consolidated basis.

2. FSMA
Under Article 23 of the Law of 2 August 2002, the FSMA must ensure that settlement institutions take the
measures necessary to (i) prevent any conflict of interest from affecting the interests of customers, (ii)
ensure that the services provided are duly registered, (iii) protect the rights of clients in case of insolvency
of the settlement institution and prevent the use by the settlement institution of financial instruments
belonging to clients (code of conduct rules).
In accordance with Article 45, § 1, 1°, of the Law of 2 August 2002, the FSMA must ensure compliance
with the rules on (i) protecting investors' interests in transactions on financial instruments, and (ii) proper
17
EXK50018

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

operation, integrity and transparency of markets in financial instruments.

3. Other
There are bilateral cooperation arrangements among the two Belgian authorities and with different national
regulators having a particular interest in the well-functioning of the Euroclear system operated by Euroclear
Bank. In the prudential area, bilateral cooperation arrangements may also exist to cover e.g. the Hong
Kong and Krakow branches of Euroclear Bank.

D. System	design	and	operations	


Settlement model

On the settlement date, securities are transferred by book-entry from the securities account of the seller
to the securities account of the buyer, provided that settlement conditions are met. Simultaneously, cash
is transferred from the account of the buyer to the account of the seller. Securities and cash transfers
between buyer and seller accounts are final and irrevocable upon generation of the settlement records in
the books of Euroclear Bank (DVP Model 1 for internal and Bridge instructions and according to local rules
for cross-border instructions).


Settlement windows

The securities settlement process includes batch and real-time processes. The overnight batch process runs
in the night between S-1 and S and settles transactions for settlement date S (or any recycled transactions
of the previous settlement days). This process settles the main volume and value of transactions.
The real-time process is not only used to recycle the pending/unsettled transactions from the overnight
batch process, but also for settlement instructions received for same day settlement which are introduced,
validated and matched during the working day. All instructions for real-time settlement, which are not
settled at the end of the process, are automatically recycled for settlement in the next batch process.
The system's processing window starts at 22:00 on S-1 with the batch process and ends at around 19:00
on S with the close of the optional real-time process. After 14:30, real-time settlement is not mandatory,
meaning that the buyer or the seller must both explicitly authorise settlement in that part of the real-time
process otherwise the settlement is postponed until the next night processing. The rationale behind this
optional settlement window is related to potential liquidity management issues that might arise among the
system clients as cash deadlines approach.
The approximate timing of the different processes is as follows:

o

Overnight batch processing: from 22:00 (S-1) until 23:30 (S-1)

o

Real-time process: from about 01:30 (S) until 19:00 (S)
18
EXK50019

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Whenever possible, external instructions for value S, including settlement feedback from local markets are
also processed within the Euroclear Bank processing window for value S. Securities transactions are settled
via domestic market links in accordance with local market rules.

Settlement windows in Euroclear Bank

Settlement efficiency is further optimised through dynamic recycling of securities and cash positions
throughout the securities settlement processing. In order to enable clients to settle as many matched
transactions as possible, clients may specify the priority that controls the order in which their instructions
are processed. Optimisation mechanisms such as back-to-back settlements are used to increase settlement
efficiency of the system. After each securities settlement processing, Euroclear Bank provides clients with
a report of settled and unsettled securities transactions and, at the beginning of each business day, with a
report of positions resulting from the overnight processing.

19
EXK50020

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

IV.	PRINCIPLE‐BY‐PRINCIPLE	SUMMARY	NARRATIVE	DISCLOSURE		

Ratings summary
Assessment

Principle

category
Observed

1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 12, 13, 15, 16, 17, 18, 20, 21, 22, 23

Broadly observed

11, 19

Partly observed

-

Not observed

-

Not applicable

6, 10, 14

20
EXK50021

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Principle	1:	Legal	basis	
An FMI should have a well-founded, clear, transparent, and enforceable legal basis for each material aspect
of its activities in all relevant jurisdictions.

Key consideration 1: The legal basis should provide a high degree of certainty for each material
aspect of an FMI’s activities in all relevant jurisdictions.
Material aspects and relevant jurisdictions
In our opinion, the following material aspects for Euroclear Bank activities require a high degree of legal
certainty:


Regulatory framework - the existence of an adequate authorisation and supervision, from a
regulatory point of view



Asset protection - the protection of the holdings in financial instruments of the clients in the books
of Euroclear Bank as well as in the books of the Euroclear Bank Depositories



Dematerialisation and immobilisation - legal basis for dematerialisation or immobilisation of
securities



Finality – the settlement finality of securities and cash transfers



Collateral – the framework covering the guarantees received from the clients to secure the credit
lines granted by Euroclear Bank for the purpose of settlement efficiency



Contractual framework - the material aspects of the services and activities of Euroclear Bank



Default procedures - the rules concerning default situations. Please refer to Principle 13 for this
aspect

Relevant jurisdictions
The most relevant legal jurisdiction for all the above material aspects of Euroclear Bank activities is Belgium.
From an asset protection point of view, all jurisdictions where financial instruments are held through links
are also relevant.
The actual location or place of incorporation of clients is also relevant in case of insolvency or resolution
proceedings affecting those clients.
Eventually, jurisdictions the laws of which are elected as governing law of certain agreements from the
contractual framework are also relevant.
Regulatory framework


Euroclear Bank SA/NV (Euroclear Bank) is an authorised credit institution in accordance with the
Belgian Banking Act and a settlement institution under Royal Decree 62. It is legally recognised as
a central securities depository (CSD) by Royal Decree of 22 August 2002. Euroclear Bank operates
21
EXK50022

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
the Euroclear System which is designated as a Securities Settlement System pursuant to the
Belgian Settlement Finality Act which implements the EU Directive 98/26 (SFD).



In these capacities, Euroclear Bank may hold deposits in cash and financial instruments on behalf
of its clients and extend credit to its clients. Euroclear Bank is authorised to hold on behalf of third
parties Belgian dematerialised securities:



‐

Belgian public debt (Law of 02 January 1991 and Ministerial Decree of 24 January 1991)

‐

Belgian corporate securities (Belgian Companies code and RD of 12 January 2006);

‐

Belgian commercial paper (Belgian Law of 22 July 1991)

Euroclear Bank has a specific tax status under Belgian law for the purpose of holding securities in
the securities settlement system operated by the National Bank of Belgium (the so-called X/N rules)
and for the purpose of the securities lending and borrowing activity (art. 261 of the Belgian Income
Tax Code).



Euroclear Bank has also specific regulatory or tax statuses in some foreign jurisdictions where it
has links.

Asset protection
Belgian Law


The Belgian legislation provides for a clear and sound basis for admission and book-entry transfers
of immobilised, dematerialised or registered securities, regardless of whether or not those are
governed by Belgian law.



Securities are held and transferred in the Euroclear System via book-entry, under various (but
similar) regimes of fungibility, depending on the nature of the securities (Royal Decree 62, Law of
02 January 1991, Law of 22 July 1991 and the Belgian Companies code).



The Royal Decree 62 and the other relevant pieces of legislation referred to above provide for a
two-tier structure of asset protection, benefiting to the client of the Euroclear System and their
underlying clients. The financial instruments held with Euroclear Bank are protected against both
the insolvency of Euroclear Bank and of its clients.



By virtue of the above legislation, the securities deposited with Euroclear Bank never become part
of the estate of Euroclear Bank and cannot be claimed by its creditors: the clients of Euroclear Bank
are given by law a co-ownership right of an intangible nature on a pool of book-entry securities of
the same category held by Euroclear Bank on behalf of all its clients holding securities of that
category. The clients holding securities in the Euroclear System retain ownership on such securities,
which implies they retain (i) ‘in rem’ rights on the securities, i.e. a right of ‘revindication’ of the
relevant quantity of securities deposited in case of an insolvency event or bankruptcy affecting
Euroclear Bank, and (ii) voting rights.



Such asset protection regime does not apply to cash deposits where Euroclear Bank becomes the
legal owner of the cash deposited and the depositor retains only a contractual claim against
Euroclear Bank.



Besides, securities and cash held with Euroclear Bank are by virtue of law immune from attachment
by creditors of account holders and any third party.
22
EXK50023

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV



More details are available in Rights of Participants to securities deposited in the Euroclear System
which is published on www.euroclear.com

Other jurisdictions


Before opening links with local SSS, Euroclear Bank performs an initial verification of the local
legislation to ensure that securities deposited on the local market benefit from a level of asset
protection that has comparable effects to the Belgian regime. A review of the local legislation is
performed periodically.



The legal opinions notably address the following legal issues:
i.

the entitlement to the securities (law applicable to proprietary aspects, nature of the rights on
the securities, permissibility of an attachment or freeze of the securities)

ii.

the impact of insolvency proceedings (segregation aspects, settlement finality, procedures and
deadlines to claim the securities)

Dematerialisation and immobilisation
The Belgian legislation has proven to be a very clear and effective legal basis for:
i.

immobilisation of securities governed by foreign or Belgian legislation; Royal Decree 62
provides for the holding of securities on a fungible basis and for a circulation of those securities
via book-entry; and

ii.

dematerialisation of securities governed by Belgian law (Laws of 02 January 1991, 22 July 1991
and 14 December 2005, as amended from time to time).

Due to a specific provision of the Belgian legislation, physical deliveries on the Belgian territory are now
prohibited, except when made between professionals and for immobilisation purposes.

Finality
The Euroclear System operated by Euroclear Bank is designated as a ‘System’ under the Belgian law of 28
April 1999 (Belgian Settlement Finality law) implementing the EU Settlement Finality Directive 98/26/EC.
This legislation effectively ensures irrevocability and finality of transfer orders executed in a securities
settlement system (‘System’).
In case of insolvency proceedings affecting a client, the system operator or the operator of a linked or
interoperable system, zero hour rule or claw-back rules of general bankruptcy laws do not apply.
Instead, the Belgian Settlement Finality Law refers to the rules of the System to determine the moment of
(i) entry of transfer orders in such System, (ii) irrevocability of transfer orders (if any such moment is
determined) and (iii) finality of transfer orders executed by the System.

23
EXK50024

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Euroclear System is governed by Belgian law. The finality rules of transfer orders in the Euroclear
System (also referred to as ‘instructions’) are set out in the Terms and Conditions governing use of
Euroclear (T&C) and in the Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System.
The typology of clients and the access criteria to the Euroclear System are set out in the Operating
Procedures of the Euroclear System, in compliance with the Belgian Settlement Finality Law and the CPMIIOSCO Principles for FMIs, in particular Principle 18.
For links with a foreign CSD/SSS (directly or through a custodian), operations are governed by the law that
is applicable to the foreign CSD/SSS. The contractual framework of the Euroclear System explains how
local law impacts cross-border settlement, amongst others on finality.

Collateral
Robust collateral arrangements securing the credit exposure of Euroclear Bank towards its clients are in
place.


The Belgian Law of 15 December 2004 implementing the Financial Collateral Directive (The Belgian
Collateral law) and the Belgian Settlement Finality Law effectively ensures the creation and
perfection of financial security interests by Euroclear Bank.



In cross-border contexts, Euroclear Bank obtains legal opinions on jurisdictions where it has most
of its exposures. The opinions aim at confirming that (i) under the Private International Law rules
of those jurisdictions Belgian law governs the validity and enforceability of security interests
granted to Euroclear Bank and (ii) the underlying securities in those jurisdictions would not be
subject to any successful attachment or other encumbrance by or in favor of any adverse claimant.
A periodic review of these opinions is performed.

Contractual framework
Please refer to KC 2 below.

Default procedures
Please refer to Principle 13.

24
EXK50025

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Key consideration 2: An FMI should have rules, procedures, and contracts that are clear,
understandable, and consistent with relevant laws and regulations.
The main contractual documentation of Euroclear Bank consists of:
-

the Terms and Conditions governing use of Euroclear (T&C), supplemented by

-

the Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System (OPs)

and are governed by Belgian law.
The credit facilities granted by Euroclear Bank are documented via specific agreements, governed by New
York law (or Belgian law in certain cases).
The securities lending arrangements of the Euroclear System are documented via supplementary
contractual documentation, part of which is governed by Belgian law, the other part being governed by
New York law.
The collateral agreements and the general pledge provision documented in the OPs (section 3.5) are
governed by Belgian law.
The collateral management services are documented via specific contractual agreements which are
governed by English law.
The consistency of the contractual framework with applicable law is ensured by scrutiny exercised by inhouse lawyers and by legal opinions obtained on specific aspects (asset protection opinions, collateral
surveys, legal opinions on some provisions of the T&C/OPs, on securities lending and borrowing services,
collateral management services, etc.)

Key consideration 3: An FMI should be able to articulate the legal basis for its activities to
relevant authorities, clients, and, where relevant, client’s customers, in a clear and
understandable way.
The legal basis for the activity of Euroclear Bank is essentially articulated in the following documents:
-

The Terms and Conditions and Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System and other related
contractual agreements (please refer to KC2)

-

the online market guides

-

the Asset Protection Pack

-

the present Disclosure Framework

All these documents (as well as other relevant documents) are publicly available on euroclear.com

25
EXK50026

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Key consideration 4: An FMI should have rules, procedures, and contracts that are enforceable
in all relevant jurisdictions. There should be a high degree of certainty that actions taken by the
FMI under such rules and procedures will not be voided, reversed, or subject to stays.
Most aspects have already been covered in Key consideration 1 and 2.
In the collateral surveys, further to the implementation of resolution regimes in certain jurisdictions,
Euroclear Bank now assesses the risks resulting from resolution measures affecting a client on the security
interests securing the credit facilities granted by Euroclear Bank. In particular, Euroclear Bank assesses
whether stays on enforcement of security interests may be applied.

Key consideration 5: An FMI conducting business in multiple jurisdictions should identity and
mitigate the risks arising from any potential conflict of laws across jurisdictions.
Conflict of laws issues arise in cross-border situations:
-

when Euroclear Bank holds securities via links in other jurisdictions: it then obtains legal opinions
on specific aspects (please refer to KC1 under Asset Protection).

-

Euroclear Bank also created a branch in Poland and subsequently transferred operational activities
to it. In this context, Euroclear Bank obtained legal opinions from Belgian and Polish external
counsels who both confirmed that the holding and transfer of securities in the Euroclear System
remain governed by Belgian law. Similar legal opinions were received for the Euroclear Bank Branch
in Hong Kong.

-

Euroclear Bank also opened representative offices in several other jurisdictions (China (Beijing),
Dubai, Germany (Frankfurt), Japan (Tokyo), Singapore and the U.S. (New York)) which only
perform general representative activities for Euroclear Bank. Euroclear Bank monitors that such
limited activities remain compliant with the local regulations on representative offices.

26
EXK50027

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Principle	2:	Governance	
An FMI should have governance arrangements that are clear and transparent, promote the safety and
efficiency of the FMI, and support the stability of the broader financial system, other relevant public interest
considerations, and the objectives of relevant stakeholders.

Key consideration 1: An FMI should have objectives that place a high priority on the safety and
efficiency of the FMI and explicitly support financial stability and other relevant public interest
considerations.
The objectives of the Euroclear Group are published on our website. The main strategic objective of the
Euroclear Group and Euroclear Bank is to be one of the leading providers of post-trade services through
reliability, innovation and leadership by:

o

building long-term partnerships with clients and

o

supporting the stability and developments of the markets, locally or globally.

Within this framework, the Euroclear Bank Board has the requisite autonomy and authority to effectively
manage its interests when implementing the group strategy.
Euroclear Bank benefits from the pooling of investment within a larger group, the ability to develop new
services and cover new products leveraging the expertise of the group with the objective of meeting the
needs of the market where they operate.
The Boards of Euroclear Bank and Euroclear plc/Euroclear SA (on a consolidated basis) are responsible for
assessing their respective performance in meeting their objectives. In addition, the Management
Committee of Euroclear SA assesses also the performance of Euroclear Bank as a group's entity.
The Group has established high standards of professional conduct that direct the ongoing activities of the
Group. These standards are formalised in various policies and procedures applicable to employees, senior
management and directors across the group.
The group’s shares are largely owned by users of its services and its main boards (Euroclear plc and
Euroclear SA boards) are essentially composed of members drawn from a cross-section of firms that use
the Euroclear services allowing users' interests and sensitivities to influence the decision-making process
of Euroclear. In addition independent directors, not affiliated with firms using the Group’s services have
been appointed to each of the boards of Euroclear plc, Euroclear SA and Euroclear Bank in order to allow
for the interests of stakeholders other than users to be represented. Users can also influence the Group
decision-making bodies through the market advisory committees, which are committees established by the
group for each market where an entity of the group acts as CSD.

27
EXK50028

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Key consideration 2: An FMI should have documented governance arrangements that provide
clear and direct lines of responsibility and accountability. These arrangements should be
disclosed to owners, relevant authorities, clients, and, at a more general level, the public.
The current structure of the Euroclear group is presented on www.euroclear.com/en/about/ourstructure.html
Euroclear Bank is the ICSD of the Euroclear group and is incorporated under Belgian Law. Euroclear Bank
is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Euroclear SA/NV, a Belgian financial holding company regulated by the
BNB.
Euroclear SA/NV acts as the group service company providing shared services to other group companies in
services arrangements with each group company, the ‘Shared Services Agreements’. Services centralised
in Euroclear SA are: IT production & development, HR, audit, legal, financial, risk management, compliance,
sales & relationship management, product management, strategy & public affairs.
Euroclear plc is the owner of the Euroclear System, the clearance and settlement system for internationally
traded securities. Euroclear Bank operates the Euroclear System under a license agreement.
Euroclear Bank’s governance requirements are set out in a CBFA circular on internal governance and other
Belgian legal and regulatory recommendations. Euroclear Bank has a regulatory obligation to describe how
it complies with those governance requirements in a Governance Memorandum, provided annually to the
Belgian regulator for their review.
Disclosure of governance arrangements
Euroclear makes public relevant governance information via different channels to provide accountability to
owners, clients and other relevant stakeholders, namely:

o

Publications with relevant authorities (e.g. Belgian State Gazette, Banque Carrefour des
Entreprises, NBB, FSMA etc.);

o

Publications in financial/national newspapers;

o

Publications on the Euroclear website (e.g. Board and Board Committees composition and Terms
of Reference, ISAE 3402, CPMI-IOSCO Disclosure Framework, etc.); and

o

publications to shareholders (annual reports, notice of meetings, etc.).

Key consideration 3: The roles and responsibilities of an FMI’s board of directors (or equivalent)
should be clearly specified, and there should be documented procedures for its functioning,
including procedures to identify, address, and manage member conflicts of interest. The board
should review both its overall performance and the performance of its individual board members
regularly.
The Board has the powers to carry out all acts that are useful to achieve the objectives of Euroclear Bank
as defined in the Articles of Association, except those that are explicitly reserved by law or the Articles to
28
EXK50029

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

the shareholders. In carrying out this role, each Board member acts in good faith in the way s/he considers
would be most likely to promote the success of Euroclear Bank for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole
while having due regard to the interests of other stakeholders (such as customers, employees and
suppliers). The Board also has regard to the interests of the Group, provided the proper balance is struck
between the financial charges imposed on Euroclear Bank and the eventual benefit to Euroclear Bank.
The overarching responsibilities of the Board are to define and oversee the implementation of the strategy
and objectives of Euroclear Bank as well as the risk policies (including the risk tolerance levels of Euroclear
Bank) and to supervise the Euroclear Bank management. The main responsibilities and operating
procedures of the Board have been defined in the Board terms of reference available on the Euroclear
website.
In order to perform its responsibilities more efficiently, the Board has established the following committees
exclusively composed of non-executive directors: the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee, the
Nominations and Governance Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities for oversight of the quality and
integrity of the accounting, auditing and reporting practices of Euroclear Bank, the effectiveness of internal
control systems and risk management systems, the adequacy and performance of Euroclear Bank’s Internal
Audit function and Compliance function , the independence, accountability and effectiveness of the External
Auditor such other duties as directed by the Board.
The Risk Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight of Euroclear Bank’s risk management
governance structure, risk tolerance, appetite and strategy, management of key risks as well as the process
for monitoring and mitigating such risks (including contingency planning, cyber security, recovery plans,
board policies, etc.); and such other duties as directed by the Board.
The Nominations and Governance Committee reviews and makes recommendations to the Board in
respect of nominations of the executive and non-executive Directors of the Company, the composition of
the Board and Board committees and corporate governance matters. It also sets a target for representation
of the underrepresented gender on the Board and defines guidelines describing appropriate actions to reach
this target.
The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the Board with respect to the total amount
of remuneration and other benefits (other than those applicable to employees of the Company generally)
paid by the Company to its executive Directors. It further reviews recommendations and approves the
amount of annual individual remuneration of each executive director (including incentive compensation,
and changes to base salary, retirement and other benefits), subject to approval by the Board of the overall
amount of executive director remuneration referred to above.
The Board of Euroclear Bank also established a Management Committee, in accordance with Belgian legal
and regulatory requirements, and delegated to it the responsibility for managing the business of Euroclear
within the strategy and general policy decided by the Board, and to implement such strategy and general
policy. The Management Committee has set up several internal committees to assist it in the performance
of its duties.

29
EXK50030

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The composition and Terms of Reference of the Board and board committees have been posted on
euroclear.com
Euroclear

established

group

policies

identifying

requirements

that

Euroclear

employees,

senior

management and board members must follow in order to identify and prevent any conflicts of interest and,
in the event it is not reasonably possible to avoid a conflict of interest, to properly manage such a conflict.
The principles of the procedures set out in the group policies that are communicated to Euroclear employees
are available on www.euroclear.com
Review of performance
On an annual basis, the Board of Euroclear Bank carries out a self-assessment and effectiveness review of
the Board as a whole, the Board Chairman and the individual members. This review endeavours to ensure
that the Board has the necessary framework in place within which to make decisions, focusing on the
optimum mix of skills and knowledge amongst the directors, clarity of goals and processes, a culture of
frankness that encourages constructive evaluation, full disclosure of procedures and an effective
relationship with management. This annual review is carried out by completion of a questionnaire by each
Board member.
The composition, the operation (including the training of the Directors and the relationships of the Board
with the Board Committees and with the management) and the role of the Board (including the way the
strategic matters are treated by the Board and the control exercised by the Board over management) as
well as the directors involvement and attendance at meetings are part of the self-assessment process. The
consolidated responses of the self-assessment are reviewed by the Nominations and Governance
Committee and the results are reported to the Board for discussion. Where concerns are raised in the
responses, they are the object of any follow-up actions.

Key consideration 4: The board should contain suitable members with the appropriate skills and
incentives to fulfill its multiple roles. This typically requires the inclusion of non-executive board
member(s).
In accordance with Belgian law, Board members are appointed by the shareholders. The Board submits to
the shareholders its proposals regarding appointment and renewal or non-renewal of Board members,
supported by a recommendation of the Nominations and Governance Committee which assesses the
Director against selection criteria and his/her availability to perform the role. All nominations are made
against merit and on the basis of a Director’s potential contribution in terms of knowledge, experience and
skills, with a view to ensuring a balanced Board which, as a whole, has the optimum mix of skills and
experience to ensure the proper fulfillment of the tasks of the Board that are appropriate for the
requirements of Euroclear Bank’s business. In addition, to adequately fulfill its role and responsibilities, the
Board as a whole should possess the necessary balance of skills and experience to set the Euroclear Bank
general policy and strategy and to properly supervise management in the implementation of such policy
and strategy. The skills that should necessarily be represented on the Board are both generic (finance,
accounting, management and organisation) and specific to the Euroclear Bank business (banking,
operations, securities settlement, capital markets, IT).
30
EXK50031

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Board of Directors is composed of the members of the Management Committee and a majority of nonexecutive directors. Euroclear Bank ensures to have a sufficient number of independent directors sitting on
the board in line with legal and regulatory requirements.
The overall membership of the Board and board Committees is reviewed by the Nominations & Governance
Committee regularly with a view to ensuring the Board remains appropriately composed. The Board and
board committee composition is posted on www.euroclear.com
Non-executive directors who are not member of the group management receive remuneration for their
mandate, taking into account their level of responsibility and time required of them in fulfillment of their
Board role. It comprises an annual gross fee, pro-rated to the number of Board meetings attended and
reflects any additional formal responsibilities held.
Non-executive directors do not receive incentive compensation (short or long-term) or stock options or
employments benefits (other than reimbursement of expenses). Their remuneration is not linked to the
performance of Euroclear.

Key consideration 5: The roles and responsibilities of management should be clearly specified.
An FMI’s management should have the appropriate experience, a mix of skills, and the integrity
necessary to discharge their responsibilities for the operation and risk management of the FMI.
The Euroclear Bank Management Committee has been established by the Board in accordance with the
Belgian legal requirements and has been entrusted with the general management of Euroclear Bank with
the exception of (i) the determination of the strategy and general policy of Euroclear Bank and (ii) the
powers reserved to the Board by law or the Articles. The Management Committee acts in accordance with
applicable law and the rules set out in the Articles and its Terms of Reference and under the supervision of
the Board.
The Management Committee reports directly to the Board and, where it concerns an area within the remit
of the Board committees, to the Board’s specific committees which in turn report their analysis on the same
to the Board.
A Chief Executive Officer has been appointed by the Board and is the Chairman of the Management
Committee. Subsequently the Management Committee has delegated to the CEO the day-to-day
management and the representation of the Company with regard to such day-to-day management,
consistently with the allocation of responsibilities between Management Committee members decided by
the Management Committee from time to time.
The objectives of the CEO are approved by the Board and the objectives of the Management Committee
are approved by the CEO and communicated to the Board. The Nominations and Governance Committee
assesses the performance of the Management Committee as part of the Board self-assessment.

31
EXK50032

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Experience, skills and integrity
All nominations to the Management Committee are made against merit and on the basis of the knowledge,
experience and skills of the candidate, regardless of his/her gender or ethnic background.
With respect to future potential members of the Management Committee, the Chairman of the Management
Committee and the Chairman of the Board jointly propose to the Board the names of the candidates to be
appointed as members of the Management Committee.
The recruitment process includes as series of interviews of the candidate, an assessment of the candidate’s
profile carried by reputable external consultants where appropriate as well as a check of the candidate’s
professional references.
In addition, the Management Committee as a whole should possess the necessary balance of skills and
experience to fulfill its role and responsibilities.

Key consideration 6: The board should establish a clear, documented risk-management
framework

that

includes

the

FMI’s

risk-tolerance

policy,

assigns

responsibilities

and

accountability for risk decisions, and addresses decision making in crises and emergencies.
Governance arrangements should ensure that the risk-management and internal control
functions have sufficient authority, independence, resources, and access to the board.
Risk management framework
The Management Committee of Euroclear group actively supports the development and maintenance of a
strong internal control system (ICS) within the group. In line with best market practice, Euroclear operates
a three lines of defense model.
The allocation of responsibilities within Euroclear's three lines of defense model is:


first line of defense:
Businesses identify the risks that may prevent reaching their objectives, define and operate controls
to mitigate the risks and document and demonstrate the control environment.



second line of defense:

-

Risk Management defines the control environment framework in line with regulations and internal
policies, it monitors the Risk and Internal Control environment in the changing internal and external
environment and reports, challenges or escalates to management risks or control defects. Risk
Management supports the business to implement remedial actions.

-

Compliance monitors, tests and reports to management on controls relating to laws and regulations
and advises on remedial actions. Other support functions like Finance or HR monitor specific controls
and escalate to management in case of control defects.
32
EXK50033

Exhibit K-5



EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

third line of defense:
Internal Audit independently reviews and tests the controls and reports to management about the
adequacy and effectiveness of the control environment.

An extensive policy framework exists for Risk Management and Compliance. Internal Audit has an Audit
Charter approved by the Board and is reviewed yearly. The Risk Management, Compliance and Internal
Audit divisions are independent from the business lines they monitor through a direct reporting line to the
CEO and through direct access to the chairman of the relevant Board committees (Euroclear SA and
Euroclear Bank boards, audit committees and risk committees).
The risk management framework is documented through a comprehensive set of policies, management
resolutions and implementing procedures. All high level policies including the risk management policies are
decided by the Board.
The risk management framework is described in more detail under principle 3.
The Risk Management framework addresses the risk-tolerance policy and assigns responsibilities and
accountability for risk decisions. The strength of this framework can be summarised as follows:


The Euroclear group has a risk management strategy aligned with its corporate objectives and
commensurate with its role as financial infrastructure. Risk tolerance levels are defined and adapted
yearly by the Board consistent with available capital while risk appetite levels are set by the
management on an annual basis with the objective to keep the risk profile low and stable.



Euroclear has a risk adverse culture, emphasised by management through its actions. Examples of this
are the extensive use of the Risk Management framework, the importance of risk management in the
group's Balanced Scorecard, the risk and control assertions signed by senior managers. Euroclear has
well developed frameworks and comprehensive policies based on good market practices that set out
how the internal control system operates and guidelines that support repeatability. The policies that
govern these frameworks are documented and part of a well-defined policy control framework.



Euroclear has established a risk register, High-Level Control Objectives (HLCOs) and more detailed
control objectives to mitigate the risks identified, describing how and by whom the risks are to be
managed.



The risk management policy and management resolutions clearly assign the risk management
responsibilities and business ownership to the relevant levels of management.

The accountability for risk decisions is distributed at all levels of the group. Strong crisis procedures are
also in place allowing quick escalation at entity or group level depending on the nature and the severity of
the crisis. Those procedures are regularly tested.
The Risk management framework is approved by the Board.

33
EXK50034

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Authority and independence of risk management and audit functions
1. Risk Management
Mission
Risk Management provides high quality and independent assurance that the relevant risks taken to achieve
Euroclear's vision are identified and controlled. Risk Management implements an approach which enables
the identification and understanding of all material current and prospective risks and the management of
appropriate responses.
This is done by providing a coherent effective framework, suitable training, useful tools, expert impartial
advice, timely risk assessments, escalation of material risk issues, informed relevant reporting, all of which
enable risks to be managed well.
More specifically, Risk Management develops and oversees appropriate risk management policies and
procedures and advises on related risk activities. Risk Management is responsible for the following generic
types of activity for each of the risks it covers:


risk policy setting



risk assessment & measurement; i.e. tools and methods for risk definition and measurement;
identification and assessment of the various residual risk exposures, their likelihood of occurrence and
their impact



risk advice; i.e. expert impartial risk advice



risk monitoring; i.e. follow-up of exceptions, action plans, new products and changes in risk exposure,
oversight over the various risk areas and reporting to the appropriate levels (local and group). If
needed, escalation of material risk issues to management and the Risk Committee.

Organisation
Risk Management acts independently of other functions and reports directly to the group CEO.
It is headed by the Chief Risk Officer who is also a member of the Management Committee of Euroclear
Bank and a permanent invitee to the Management Committee of Euroclear SA/NV.
Corporate risk managers have been assigned to address the risks of each Euroclear entity and are supported
by the Risk Management division of the group, who develops for instance the risk management framework,
capital modeling and data support. A team is also dedicated to banking risks.
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Framework
The risk register is supported by High-Level Control Objectives (HLCOs) established by the group to mitigate
the risks identified in the risk register. The HLCOs are supported by more detailed control objectives, agreed
with senior business management and providing a clear link to the mission of each business unit. Finally,
these control objectives are supported by detailed controls and control processes describing how the risks
impacting business activities are to be mitigated. These control objectives are the foundation of the group’s
internal control system and are documented in the Positive Assurance Reports (PAR). The PAR have been
34
EXK50035

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

deployed at entity/divisional level and, where relevant, at departmental level. They link business objectives
through to control objectives, control activities, and forms of evidences. By keeping track of the main
expected internal and external change factors, they allow first line management to timely maintain the
adequacy of the control environment when expected changes materialise.
Internal Control System (ICS)
As described above under principle 3, Euroclear has adopted the ‘three lines of defense’ model.
Risk Monitoring through self-assessments
The control objectives are the basis of the annual Risk & Control Self-Assessments (RCSAs). The qualitative
self-assessments are key components of the ERM framework. The RCSAs aim to achieve the following
objectives:
‐

build an accurate and consistent assessment of the ICS, i.e. to achieve a good understanding of
the risk profile of the business

‐

increase risk awareness and promote an ongoing assessment of risks and controls by business
managers

‐

identify new risks by bringing together experts and less experienced people in brainstorming
sessions

‐

obtain quantification of the risks faced by Euroclear at ‘risk event level’, service level and entity
level

‐

ensure that individual risks in the ICS are identified proactively and that they are addressed
adequately

‐

help management make a well-founded statement on the effectiveness of the ICS.

Risk Management consolidates and summarises the results of these self-assessments, discusses them with
management and reports them to the Audit and Risk board committee and to the Board.
ICAAP – Methodology
The Euroclear Group ICAAP is built around 2 key internal processes, the Enterprise Risk Management
Framework (ERM) and the Internal Capital Measurement Approach (ICMA) which is part of ERM.
• The ERM framework details how risks are identified, who owns them, and how they are to be mitigated.
The ERM framework helps to establish ERM objectives and describes relevant risk processes, the role of
people within them, and what information is to be provided to take proper management decisions.
Euroclear implements every pillar of the framework consistently across the Group.
• The Internal Capital Measurement Approach (ICMA) provides high level principles to ensure that sufficient
capital is maintained for the identified risks of the relevant entities within the Euroclear Group to meet the
group objectives. A relevant entity is, in this context, an entity which provides its clients with services
relating to post-trading businesses. Euroclear Bank is one of these entities in the group.

35
EXK50036

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Those principles are applied consistently across the group and force each relevant entity to have a view on
its level of capitalisation. The results of the ICAAP as expressed in capital requirements over a 1 year
horizon are reported in the core equity recommendation. These figures are approved by the highest levels
of management on a yearly basis: the report for a given year will show capital needs for next year.
It is complemented by an analysis of the potential capital requirement over a 5 year- time horizon capital
requirement, which is reported in the capital plan. The Board approves the models and the capital plan.

2. Internal Audit
Mission
The mission of the group Internal Audit division (‘IA’) is set out in the Internal Audit Charter approved by
the group’s Management Committee (MC) and Board Audit Committee (AC), as providing reasonable
assurance, in an independent and objective way, on the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s system
of internal controls to support the Board and senior management in reaching their objectives.
Organisation
The Euroclear SA Internal Audit Charter describes IA’s purpose, authority and responsibility. The Charter
stipulates that the Group Chief Auditor should report to a level within the organisation that allows IA to
fulfill its responsibilities, with proper independence in determining the Audit Universe, Audit Plan and scope
of audit reviews, performing work (through an unlimited access right to all records and data of the
company), and communicating results.
IA is organisationally independent from any operational or business activity. The Chief Auditor reports to
the CEO of the group. The independence of IA is further ensured by an additional reporting line to the
Chairman of the AC. The Chief Auditor has direct access to the Chairman and members of the AC, the
Chairman of the Board of directors, and the accredited statutory auditors.
Functioning
In order to carry out its mission, Internal Audit has set up a comprehensive audit universe including all
processes carried out by the group, whether directly or outsourced. The Audit Plan covers the full audit
universe and is presented quarterly for approval by the Management Committee and Audit Committee. The
audit plan is the result of:


a risk and control based approach: each line of the universe is assessed quarterly, which drives the
depth and scope of audits



a cyclical approach: even though the results of the risk and control assessments would not lead to
an audit, an audit is anyway performed every three years

The audit plan focuses on the next quarter but has a six-quarter time horizon. This has just been adapted
for CSDR to become a three years plan.

36
EXK50037

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Such a frequent and comprehensive plan process ensures that the audit plan remains commensurate to
the risk profile of the company and focuses on the areas presenting the highest risks or being heavily
control dependent.
Issues identified by Internal Audit are entered into the risk database used at group level. In line with the
Institute of Internal Auditors standards, Internal Audit performs the follow-up and verification of the issues
it raises.
Reporting
Euroclear Bank management and the Audit Committee are informed periodically of the adequacy and
effectiveness of the internal control system through the quarterly internal audit activity report, which covers
the progress on the internal audit plan, the results of audit work (including concerns regarding the
effectiveness or timeliness of management’s actions to address audit issues), and resourcing. In addition
to this, Internal Audit sends any communication, audit memos and reports it deems necessary, directly to
Management Committee members; the High Priority Control Issues (HPCI) report is made quarterly to
highlight significant control issues as well as progress in mitigating them.
Internal Audit also has regular meetings with external auditors. Audit reports are communicated to these
stakeholders upon request.

Key consideration 7: The board should ensure that the FMI’s design, rules, overall strategy and
major decisions reflect appropriately the legitimate interests of its direct and indirect clients
and other relevant stakeholders. Major decisions should be clearly disclosed to relevant
stakeholders and, where there is a broad market impact, the public.
Identification and consideration of stakeholder interests
The user governance framework of Euroclear ensures that the interests of clients and other stakeholders
are taken into account in the CSDs’ design, rules, overall strategy and major decisions. Users can also
influence the Group decision-making bodies through the Market Advisory Committees which are committees
established by the Group for each market where an entity of the Group acts as CSD (Belgium, the
Netherlands, France, Ireland, Sweden, Finland and United Kingdom) as well as the ESES Market Advisory
Committee and the Cross-Border Market Advisory Committees. These committees act as a primary source
of feedback and interaction between the user community and Euroclear management on significant matters
affecting their respective markets. These committees are not part of the formal direction of the Group
companies and their members are not Euroclear directors, nor do they owe any fiduciary duty to Euroclear.
Users and other stakeholders can also influence the group's decision bodies by participating in ad hoc
working groups and committees, international groups (European Repo Council, ISMA, IPMA) or through ad
hoc consultations.

37
EXK50038

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Disclosure
Major decisions are communicated to owners (Euroclear SA and Euroclear plc user shareholders) through
the ‘Notice to Shareholders’ for the annual general meeting and for each extraordinary general meeting.
They are communicated to the users (clients) via the commercial account officers and through various
publications (i.e. newsletters) and through user representatives in regular meetings of the MACs.

38
EXK50039

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Principle	3:	Framework	for	the	comprehensive	management	of	risks	
Key consideration 1: An FMI should have risk-management policies, procedures, and systems
that enable it to identify, measure, monitor, and manage the range of risks that arise in or are
borne by the FMI. Risk-management frameworks should be subject to periodic review.
Risks that arise in or are borne by the FMI
The Euroclear group has established a Risk Register, which contains six risk categories the group is faced
with.
Three categories relate to the provision of services:


Credit risk: The risk of loss (direct or contingent) arising from the failure of a counterparty to meet
its obligations to Euroclear.



Liquidity risk: The risk of loss (financial or non-financial) arising from Euroclear being unable to
settle an obligation for full value when due. Liquidity risk does not imply that Euroclear is insolvent
since it may be able to settle the required debit obligations at some unspecified time thereafter.



Operational risk: the risk of financial and reputational loss from inadequate or failed internal
processes, people and systems. It encompasses processing risk, accounting risk, ethical conduct,
legal and compliance risk, people risk, project risk and information and system risk.)

Three other categories are related to the environment in which Euroclear operates:


Market risk: the uncertainty on future earnings and on the value of assets and liabilities (on or off
balance sheet) due to changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices or commodity
prices



Business risk: The risk of revenues being different from forecast as a result of the inherent
uncertainty associated with business planning over a two-years time horizon or of unanticipated
changes in the nature or level of market activity serviced by Euroclear



Strategic risk: The risk of the business model not being appropriate to deliver the corporate vision
as a result of restrictions in the ability to implement internal change, external changes in the
environment in which Euroclear operates or the inherent uncertainty associated with business
planning over a medium to long term horizon

Risk management policies, procedures and systems
Euroclear uses an Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework to ensure a coherent approach to risk
management. It covers both the day-to-day operational risk/control processes as well as content-related
key risk framework concepts.

39
EXK50040

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The ERM has the following key content-related components:


Euroclear has well-developed frameworks and comprehensive policies based on good market practices

that set out how risks are managed consistently. The policies that govern these frameworks are
documented and part of a well-defined policy control framework.


Euroclear has established a Risk Register, which is an inventory of all types or risks that the Euroclear

group is facing. Under each of the six main categories of risk, a next level of more specific risks that
Euroclear may be facing is listed (a Level 2 Risk Register). This register is used as input to build or verify
the control objectives which the business has to fulfill.


The Internal Controls System is an integral part of the ERM and has defined High-Level Control

Objectives (HLCOs) and more detailed Control Objectives to mitigate the risks of the Risk Register.
The ERM framework is composed of seven key, inter-related building blocks, or ‘pillars’ that cater for a
consistent approach to the management of risks:



Strategy – Euroclear’s approach to risk management



Culture & Competence - An active and interventionist approach to risk management by
appropriately skilled people



Governance - Assigning responsibility and authority



Identification, Measurement & Assessment - Understanding risks



Risk Response and Control - Addressing risks in an appropriate way



Reporting - Getting the right information to the right people at the right time



Monitoring Processes - Assessing the effectiveness of the risk management strategies.

Picture 3 – Overview of the ERM

40
EXK50041

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Risk Identification
In line with best market practice, Euroclear operates a three lines of defense model. The allocation of
responsibilities within Euroclear's three lines of defense model is:
• first line of defense: Businesses identify the risks that may prevent reaching their objectives,
define and operate controls to mitigate the risks and document and demonstrate the control
environment.
• second line of defense:
-

Risk Management defines the control environment framework in line with regulations and
internal policies; it monitors the Risk and Internal Control environment in the changing internal
and external environment and reports, challenges or escalates to management risks or control
defects. Risk Management supports the business to implement remedial actions.

-

Compliance monitors, tests and reports to management on controls relating to laws and
regulations and advises on remedial actions. Other support functions like Finance or HR monitor
specific controls and escalate to management in case of control defects.

• third line of defense: Internal Audit independently reviews and tests the controls and reports to
management about the adequacy and effectiveness of the control environment.

Euroclear encourages the proactive identification of risks and control weaknesses, as opposed to the
reactive logging of risks. Key techniques and processes that facilitate this are:


the periodic (daily to quarterly) monitoring of key risk and key performance indicators by
team

leaders,

department

heads,

division

heads,

committees

and

management

committees.


the systematic risk assessments associated with the new product or service approval
process



annual risk and control self-assessment



Risk Management’s recurring risk assessments

Also, Euroclear records all incidents and performs a post-mortem exercise to identify root causes and put
in place measures to avoid recurrence.
Risk Measurement
Euroclear has developed a granular assessment and rating methodology for risks which enables risks to be
classified according to their impact on the relevant business areas or Euroclear entities. Risks are assessed
e.g. in risk workshops and are recorded in the common system of otherwise when assessed.

41
EXK50042

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Monitoring
Monitoring is mainly done through the periodic monitoring of key performance indicators (KPIs) by the
different first line teams, specific control teams (e.g. in Finance) or second line controls. The results of the
monitoring are cascaded upwards to process owners, department heads, committees and management.
Annual qualitative Risk & Control Self-Assessments (RCSAs) are used to build an accurate and consistent
assessment of the Internal Control System (ICS), i.e. to achieve a good understanding of the risk profile
and of control gaps and help management make a well-founded statement on the effectiveness of the ICS.
Manage/control
Risks are primarily managed by all the operational controls implemented by the first line of defense, such
as STP processing, reconciliation checks, four-eyes principles for critical manual functions, standardised
operating procedures (SOPs), incident analysis, etc.
Supporting systems
Euroclear uses the ERM framework to manage its risks. The group also has a common central risk repository
called ‘I-Track’ where risks are recorded and followed up. It allows Euroclear Bank track its range of risks
that have been identified proactively by the business but also through incidents, by risk management, by
the internal audit. The database contains risk owners, all action plans and their owners, the assessment
and history of risk mitigation or acceptance. Each identified risks is rated considering the severity and the
likelihood in order to facilitate the prioritisation of mitigating actions.

Incidents are recorded in a central database called ‘ROI+’ which is linked to the ‘I-Track’ database.

42
EXK50043

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Euroclear Bank also has specific systems to monitor and manage specific risks such as:


credit exposures on its clients



collateral valuation



liquidity management

etc.
through KPIs or control measures.
It uses a number of datawarehouses for this purpose: liquidity datawarehouse, market risk datawarehouse,
credit datawarehouse and the operational risk datawarehouse.
Apart from the above, Risk Management also uses a value-at-risk tool to monitor exposures to the Bank
and a number of models to calculate economic capital.
Aggregation of exposures
Euroclear Bank has a view on its exposures on its counterparties across the FMI for all the roles they may
have in the system, such as treasury counterparty (for re-deposits of cash balances), client (credit line for
settlement activity, securities borrowing), issuer of securities (used as collateral by other clients, or
securities that are being redeemed/pay interest) and lead manager in the new issues process.
Although Euroclear Bank has an aggregate view on its exposures on an entity for all its roles, in setting the
upper limit for a client’s credit line, it does not take into account the credit exposure it has on the entity as
a cash correspondent. The maximum credit limit (‘Global Family Limit’) caps the exposures from the
treasury and client roles only, as the exposure resulting from the cash correspondent role is not controllable
ex ante (as clients may wire money to this cash correspondent without pre-advice for example). Euroclear
Bank manages the cash correspondent intra-day risk through intra-day cash realignment between cash
correspondents or to the central bank.
Effectiveness of the risk management policies, procedures and systems
The effectiveness of the actual measures in place is assessed in first place by first line (business owner)
and second line monitoring activity (essentially Risk Management and Compliance). This is done using key
performance indicators (KPIs) by the different first line teams, specific control teams or second line controls
(like Banking Middle Office). The results of the monitoring are cascaded upwards to process owners,
department heads, division heads, committees and management aommittees. Any deviations are
highlighted, investigated and policies and processes are adjusted if necessary.
Euroclear also conducts annual risk control self-assessment, where all departments and functions are
assessing themselves against the given control objectives, and reports on any gaps, risks or shortcomings.
This process is done also for risk management and compliance functions.
The effectiveness of Euroclear Bank’s risk-management policies, procedures and systems is also proven by
back-tests that are regularly conducted. The Liquidity Stress Test for example tests whether there were
sufficient liquidity sources to cover its liquidity needs based on real-life data (i.e. based on statistics of
actual cash balances in the period under review). In addition, real-life events (such as a real default of a
43
EXK50044

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

client) can prove whether the policies and systems are effective in real-life stress situations (e.g. by actually
selling collateral of a defaulted client on the market, it can be verified if the collateral valuation system and
haircuts have been adequate).
The effectiveness of crisis management and business continuity plans is also regularly tested. Crisis
management rehearsal exercises via desktop or simulation exercises are organised to train the crisis
managers and test the crisis management procedures. Several of these exercises are organised each year,
as standalone activities or combined with the other activities. Every update, findings and actions for
improvement are captured in the standard flow of problem management & issue tracking, which guarantees
the follow-up (root cause analysis, tracking of solutions and/or agreed actions).
Reports on Risk Management effectiveness are presented to the governing bodies including the Board.
Finally, Risk Management functions are audited by Internal Audit which provides as well a reporting to the
governing bodies including the Board.
Review of risk management policies, procedures and systems
Euroclear’s Risk Management division is located in Euroclear SA/NV, the parent company of the group, in
order to ensure a consistent risk-management approach across all entities. Many policies will apply to the
whole group, while others are specific to a Euroclear entity (e.g. local regulation or technical
implementations, some policies related to banking activities are only applicable to Euroclear Bank).
However, the covered processes and principles are quite similar:


the Board is responsible for approving (risk-management) ‘policies’



local management is responsible for approving management resolutions that implement
the Board Policies



department heads are responsible for developing ‘implementing procedures’ that
implement the board policies and management resolutions.

44
EXK50045

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

When developing these policies, the boards and management committees are assisted by specific
committees. The Euroclear SA Board is advised by the Risk Committee, which also makes recommendations
with regard to the approval or revision of risk policies. The Euroclear SA Management Committee is advised
by the Group Risk Committee. In addition to the support from Euroclear SA’s risk management, the
Euroclear Bank Board is advised by its Audit and Risk Committee. The Euroclear Bank Management
Committee is supported by the Risk, Local Security and Operating Committee (for operational risks, as well
as the assessment of the risks of new and changed products and services) and the CALCO (Credit and
Assets and Liabilities Committee for banking related risks). These committees may propose policy changes.
Both Euroclear SA governance bodies and Euroclear Bank governance bodies rely on the advice from the
Risk Management division.
Review frequency
When policies are written, they are designed so that the principles set out in them can remain valid even
if the risk intensity or environment has changed. Euroclear continuously monitors fluctuations in risk
intensity and changes in its environment. Every quarter, Risk Management prepares management risk
reports at group and entity levels, which lists the main risks, and captures trends in risk intensity and the
validity of action plans. Such monitoring allows changing the policies, management resolutions or
implementing procedures if needed.

Key consideration 2: An FMI should provide incentives to clients and, where relevant, their
customers to manage and contain the risks they pose to the FMI.
Credit that is granted by Euroclear Bank to clients are short term to facilitate the settlement of transactions
and are collaterialised (for more detail, please see Principle 4).
Euroclear Bank encourages its clients to use the Euroclear Bank’s system in the best way. Euroclear Bank
provides extensive information regarding the use of the system and the services available.
Beside the information available on euroclear.com (Terms and Conditions, rules, newsletters), Euroclear
organises training for clients.
Euroclear services and system have been specifically designed to enable clients to monitor, manage and
reduce the risk they face, including through ‘delivery versus payment’ and extensive real-time information
(the information contains among others data on client’s transactions, cash and securities positions, the
amount of credit facilities as provided by Euroclear Bank, which are uncommitted, intra-day, secured and
documented,

the credit usage and additional real time information allowing clients to anticipate their

collateral and credit needs for the day and for the next overnight processing cycle).
Additional services such as Triparty repo and collateral management have been designed to mitigate the
risks further.

45
EXK50046

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Finally, Euroclear has implemented a sponsorship process to reduce the risks both for Euroclear and its
clients. A sponsorship consists of an initial know your client (KYC) exercise upon admission which is follow
up by regular KYC process to make sure the admission criteria are still met.
The level of due diligence required depends on the creditworthiness of the client or its shareholders as
expressed by a Euroclear Bank internal credit rating or external credit rating and the type of risk (financial
and/or only operational risk).
Sponsorships are performed before admission and on an annual basis, except under defined criteria where
the frequency is decreased to every two years provided all criteria are scored ‘sufficient’. clients with a
credit facility are rated at least annually and many of the elements in the Sponsorship File are assessed in
this process. Sponsorships have to be updated and reapproved if Euroclear Bank has knowledge of events
that have material adverse effects on clients.
Euroclear Bank has no contractual relationship with clients’ customer. The contractual relationship remains
exclusively between Euroclear Bank and its clients.

Key consideration 3: An FMI should regularly review the material risks it bears from and poses
to other entities (such as other FMIs, settlement banks, liquidity providers, and service
providers) as a result of interdependencies and develop appropriate risk-management tools to
address these risks.
Material risks
The risk that Euroclear Bank bears from or poses to other entities are identified and assessed as part of
the ERM framework with specific approaches for the different risk types. The three main risks types to
consider for Euroclear Bank are: credit risks, liquidity risks and operational risks.
The main risk borne by Euroclear Bank from other entities (such as other FMIs, settlement banks, liquidity
providers and service providers) are with Clearstream Banking Luxembourg - Euroclear Bank and
Clearstream Banking Luxembourg have a lot of interaction during the Bridge process -, cash correspondent
and liquidity providers, TARGET2, network providers and data providers.
The risk caused by other FMIs such as CCPs and MTFs are smaller (because of relatively small volumes,
compared to the overall Euroclear Bank settlement volumes and because of peculiarity of post-trade model
i.e. de facto CCP acting as standard settlement client and Stock Exchanges / MTFs sending settlement
instructions on behalf of Euroclear Bank clients on those accounts settlement occurs) and could be
compared to the risk borne by Euroclear Bank from a standard client.
Beside the credit and liquidity risks, the operational risks posed to Euroclear Bank from other entity are
e.g.:
•

risk of lower settlement ratio if one or several significant clients make operational errors (e.g. sends
wrong instructions) or cannot deliver their instructions in time.
46
EXK50047

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
risk to settlement ratio and completeness if major infrastructure players in the financial sector is

•

down, like the central bank.
risk to the general market stability and risk of delays or losses to other clients and investors if a

•

client defaults (but not per say any particular risk to the CSD).
The main risks posed by Euroclear Bank to other entities are more difficult to evaluate as their contingency
procedures in case of Euroclear Bank default or unavailability are not known. It can be assumed that the
main risks are credit risks and liquidity risks (Clearstream Banking Luxembourg BANKING LUXEMBOURG,
Liquidity providers, Central Banks to access collateral for monetary policy, CCPs, clients) and operational
risks. Other entities that Euroclear Bank uses as service providers from time to time perform due diligence
reviews of Euroclear Bank. Euroclear Bank also shares relevant information that allows other entities to
adequately assess the risks posed to them by Euroclear Bank.
To mitigate this, Euroclear Bank has implemented many layers of precaution and protection of its processes
and services (business continuity plans regularly tested), and operates a comprehensive risk management
framework built on established standards and best practices. Specific risks in the context of CSD links are
described under principle 20.
Risk measurement and monitoring
The same risk management procedures and processes as described above under Key consideration 1 will
apply to our assessment of risks from other entities.
These include:


Business risk assessments (including the new product approval risk assessments)



Stress tests such a business continuity tests and default procedure tests



first line and second line monitoring activities



Other specific initiatives on specific risks such as the ‘Long-term IT outage’ analysis



Incident analysis and availability follow-up

Risk management tools
The same procedures and processes as described under Key consideration 1 above apply to risks arising
from interdependencies with other entities.
The effectiveness of the actual measures in place is assessed in first place by first line and second line
monitoring activity.
In addition, real-life incidents events, such as operational incidents or a real default of a client, can prove
whether the policies and systems are effective in real-life stress situations.

47
EXK50048

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Key consideration 4: An FMI should identify scenarios that may potentially prevent it from being
able to provide its critical operations and services as a going concern and assess the
effectiveness of a full range of options for recovery or orderly wind-down. An FMI should prepare
appropriate plans for its recovery or orderly wind-down based on the results of that assessment.
Where applicable, an FMI should also provide relevant authorities with the information needed
for purposes of resolution planning.
Recovery plans
At the request of the NBB and of other group regulators, Euroclear has prepared recovery plans for each
of the group’s entities, as well as a plan for the group. These plans are based on a generic group framework
and developed in a consistent way. They identify


scenarios that may bring any group entity in severe financial difficulties threatening its mediumterm viability



recovery options that may be taken either locally, at the level of the relevant entity or at group
level, to restore the stricken entity’s financial health



an appropriate governance allowing timely detection of situations that may require taking recovery
options and escalation to Management and Board

The preparation of the recovery plans is coordinated by Risk Management, based on input from other
divisions. Key stakeholders in the projects include the Financial, Legal, Banking, Human Resources and IT
divisions, as well as Corporate Secretariat, Strategy and Public affairs, Product Management and Regulatory
Relationship Management. A Steering Committee, made up of senior executives within the group and of all
entities’ CEOs, ensures top management’s involvement at all stages of the process.
It is our intention to review recovery plans annually or when a significant change occurs that would impact
the feasibility or materiality of a recovery option.
The Euroclear Bank recovery plan has been approved by the Board of Directors of the Bank in October
2015, upon recommendation from the Audit and Risk Committee. The Euroclear SA recovery plan has been
approved by the Board of Directors of Euroclear SA/NV in October 2015, upon recommendation from the
Euroclear SA Risk Committee.
Recovery scenarios
The recovery plans describe scenarios sufficiently severe to put at risk the continuity of any Euroclear entity
or of Euroclear as a group. These scenarios are extreme but plausible, and built around the specificities of
the entities of the group. The set of scenarios includes scenarios threatening each (type of) entity: Euroclear
SA standalone, Euroclear Bank and the CSDs.
The set of scenarios retained in the plan are complementary in terms of scale (idiosyncratic vs. systemic)
and rapidity of unfolding (slow vs. fast), as can be seen in the figure below.

48
EXK50049

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

We analyse the consequences of similar scenarios for all entities, where appropriate. This ensures a
consistent approach across group entities, and allows capturing the aggregate impact at group level of all
selected scenarios. The figure below shows how relevant each (type of) scenario is for the various group
entities.

49
EXK50050

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

In addition to the recovery planning exercise, Euroclear Bank Resilience team within the Risk Management
organisation has analysed the impact of and developed responses to (business continuity plans) scenarios
impacting its office, IT infrastructure and its staff, as well as financial crisis scenarios, with the objective to
manage the impact and return to business as usual.
Recovery options
Euroclear has developed recovery strategies that address the respective impacts caused by the various
scenarios developed in the plan.
The recovery tools analysed in the plans cover:


options to increase available capital, either through

intra-group support, mainly from the mother

company (Euroclear SA/NV), or through raising additional capital externally


options to raise liquidity in case of need, included through committed liquidity sources. Liquidity options
are mainly relevant for Euroclear Bank



Business options, that may be used independently in case of a prolonged P&L problem threatening the
viability of any group entity. Such options are also likely to be used to accompany and support the
implementation of any other recovery options. They aim at improving the cost base or the revenue
base of group entities



Divestments, the purpose of which is to generate a one-off inflow of cash, or to ensure that a stricken
entity is taken over smoothly to ensure continued provision of services to the market

Not all options are as relevant for all entities. The figure below shows how different options may effectively
be applied either locally or at group level.
50
EXK50051

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Resolution plans
The preparation of Euroclear’s resolution plan(s) is expected to be initiated by the respective competent
authorities soon. We do not yet have any view on the timeline involved.

51
EXK50052

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Principle	4:	Credit	risk	
An FMI should effectively measure, monitor, and manage its credit exposure to clients and those arising
from its payment, clearing, and settlement processes. An FMI should maintain sufficient financial resources
to cover its credit exposure to each client fully with a high degree of confidence. In addition, a CCP that is
involved in activities with a more-complex risk profile or that is systemically important in multiple
jurisdictions should maintain additional financial resources sufficient to cover a wide range of potential
stress scenarios that should include, but not be limited to, the default of the two largest clients and their
affiliates that would potentially cause the largest aggregate credit exposures to the CCP in extreme but
plausible market conditions. All other CCPs should maintain, at a minimum, total financial resources
sufficient to cover the default of the one client and its affiliates that would potentially cause the largest
aggregate credit exposures to the CCP in extreme but plausible market conditions.

Key consideration 1: An FMI should establish a robust framework to manage its credit exposures
to its clients and the credit risks arising from its payment, clearing and settlement processes.
Credit exposure may arise from current exposures, potential future exposures, or both.
Framework for managing credit exposures to clients
Policies and procedures
The provision of credit by Euroclear Bank and the related credit risk mitigation measures are governed by
Euroclear Bank's Credit Risk Board Policy and related management resolutions and ‘implementing
procedures’.
The Credit Risk Board Policy defines the limits based on Euroclear Bank’s credit risk appetite i.e.


the available capital allocated annually for credit risk (the ‘upper tolerance level’) by the Board of
Euroclear Bank1



regulatory limits including risk concentration limits and capital adequacy ratios



internal limits, such as credit limits, country limits or treasury limits

The Credit Risk Board Policy sets the general framework, which is detailed in the credit risk management
resolutions and related ‘implementing procedures’.
The Euroclear Bank Board approves and is accountable for overseeing the implementation of the policy,
while its effective implementation, communication and monitoring are delegated to the Euroclear Bank
Management Committee.

1The Economic Capital for credit risk is the measure of the required capital resulting from the actual credit exposures
and credit ratings of Euroclear clients and counterparts. The Economic Capital usage for credit risk is recalculated every
month; it should not exceed the available capital allocated for credit risk.

52
EXK50053

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Information and control systems
Credit extended by Euroclear Bank is subject to capital concentration, country, global and individual limits.
Those limits are translated into individual credit lines that are monitored on a real-time basis. Euroclear
Bank has an internal rating model, of which the performance and application review has been outsourced
to S&P Risk Solutions.2
Incentives for clients and other entities to manage credit risks
Euroclear Bank has a number of incentives for clients to reduce Euroclear Bank’s credit risk.
Euroclear Bank charges debit interests to its clients when a debit position remains overnight. The debit
interest rate charged to a client is directly related to its internal rating and is above market rates. Collateral
is valued in accordance with Euroclear Bank's collateral valuation model. As a rule, a conservative collateral
valuation is applied (See Principle 5). Securities borrowing rates are also above street lending rates.
Credit facilities and exposures
As a single purpose bank, Euroclear Bank provides uncommitted intra-day multi-currency and multipurpose credit facilities to its clients3 only to support their activity in the Euroclear System.
Settlement and securities borrowing
In addition to the client admission monitoring and sponsorship process, Euroclear Bank reviews at least
annually the size of its clients’ credit lines.
Before granting credit facilities to a client, its financial soundness is assessed and an internal credit rating
is assigned, as per Euroclear Bank's internal credit rating model. The size of the credit facility is based on
the client’s financial soundness and its level and type of activity within Euroclear Bank’s Credit Risk Board
Policy limits. Facilities must remain consistent with the creditworthiness and the activity of the client, hence
they are reviewed at least annually.
Clients’ credit usage can be in cash or in securities (i.e. securities borrowing).
Settlement credit exposure in cash occurs when Euroclear Bank debits a client’s cash account to execute a
transaction for an amount above the available cash in that currency in the client’s account. This credit
exposure is intraday by nature and therefore not reflected in Euroclear Bank’s balance sheet.
Upon appropriate approval, Euroclear Bank may grant temporary extensions to the client credit facilities,
authorising its clients to have a credit exposure above their approved credit facilities. The objective of such
extensions, which are by nature temporary, is to unblock transactions, which would otherwise prevent
settling a chain of transactions. These allow increased settlement efficiency.

2 In line with the Basel II regulatory framework, Euroclear Bank uses the Foundation Internal Ratings Based Approach
(‘FIRBA’) in order to compute Euroclear group’s capital needs for credit risk since 1 January 2007. In order to comply
with the requirements of that approach, Euroclear Bank has developed an internal rating model.
3 Credit granted to Clearstream Banking Luxembourg in the framework of the Bridge activities is covered in Principle.

53
EXK50054

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

As a rule, all Euroclear Bank credit facilities are secured by collateral held in the Euroclear System. A few
unsecured facilities are provided on an exceptional basis mainly to central banks that are not allowed to
pledge their assets.
Since Euroclear Bank guarantees the reimbursement of borrowed securities to lenders, securities borrowing
exposures on the borrower are reported in its intraday credit usage and are limited by a cap under its
settlement-related credit facility. Only clients with a secured credit line can borrow securities.
Asset servicing
To comply with Principle 4, since October 2014, Euroclear Bank has stopped advancing income and
redemption proceeds to its clients.
Measuring, monitoring and reporting credit exposures
The clients' cash positions are net per currency based on the settlement of securities purchased and sold
in a particular currency. There is no further cross-currency netting.
Euroclear Bank monitors credit exposures on a real-time basis taking into account the different sources of
credit risk. clients' exposures vary on a continuous basis within their credit lines, and this control is
embedded in the systems. When clients need more credit than their available credit line, instructions block.
Euroclear Bank can unblock them by extending additional credit (if approved by the relevant credit authority
and if sufficient collateral is available in the client’s account).
Euroclear Bank Credit department is responsible for monitoring and controlling credit exposures on clients
on an ongoing basis.
Key risk indicators have been defined for monitoring credit risk. They are reported in the Monthly Banking
Risk Report and reviewed by Euroclear Bank Credit & Asset & Liability Committee (CALCO). This report is
shared monthly with the national regulator (NBB).

Key consideration 2: An FMI should identify sources of credit risk, routinely measure and
monitor credit exposures, and use appropriate risk management tools to control these risks.
Credit and liquidity risk mitigation
Euroclear Bank respects Belgian and European regulations and has developed mitigation actions and tools
aiming at reducing counterparty and credit risks both for clients and Euroclear Bank e.g. Euroclear Bank is
running a DVP 1 settlement system providing immediate finality of transactions in most cases.
Concentration limits
Concentration limits are set to ensure that Euroclear Bank does not take too large exposures on too few
clients or counterparts. European and Belgian banking regulations also impose risk concentration limits
that have to be respected for each applicable exposure. Individual exposures above 25% of Euroclear
54
EXK50055

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Bank’s own funds (Tier 1 + Tier 2 – deductions) are reported as breaches to NBB under the large exposures
regulation.
Capital adequacy ratios
The capital adequacy European banking regulation imposes capital adequacy ratios, which are percentages
of a bank's capital to its risk-weighted assets.
Euroclear Bank has a total capital ratio which is largely above the minimum ratio of 8%, required by the
law.
Set-off
In case of default, Euroclear Bank has the possibility to set off clients’ exposures in one currency with long
cash balances in another currency4.
Statutory lien
Euroclear Bank can rely on the Belgian statutory lien on clients’ assets held in the Euroclear System to
secure any claim against them arising from the settlement of transactions5 through or in connection with
the System.
Euroclear Bank has discretionarily waived such statutory lien over the balances of all securities that have
been separately and expressly identified in writing by the client as an account to which solely customer
securities are credited, except where the client has agreed in writing that the lien should continue to apply.
Collateralisation
As a rule, credit facilities are secured with pledged collateral held in the Euroclear System: the availability
of credit is dependent on the minimum between the level of the secured credit facility and the amount of
pledged collateral.

4 It is generally not possible to set off exposures from Euroclear Bank on the same entity being a client and a cash
correspondent. As per Euroclear Bank's credit and collateral agreement, different relationships cannot be mixed, except
if a pooling and netting agreement is signed.
5 Euroclear Bank has also a general pledge right described in Section 10.1 (d) of the Operating Procedures, valid for
custody related debits.

55
EXK50056

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Appropriation
Top credit users in Euroclear Bank have signed an addendum to their collateral agreement allowing
Euroclear Bank to immediately appropriate their pledged securities in case of default giving the right to
Euroclear Bank to re-use their collateral to generate liquidity. Appropriation is also included in the standard
collateral agreement since 2010.
Evidences supporting the validity of the credit risk management framework
Since its creation, Euroclear Bank has no history of credit losses due to client defaults.

Key consideration 3: A payment system or SSS should cover its current and, where they exist,
potential future exposures to each client fully with a high degree of confidence using collateral
and other equivalent financial resources (see Principle 5 on collateral). In the case of a DNS
payment system or DNS SSS in which there is no settlement guarantee but where its clients face
credit exposures arising from its payment, clearing, and settlement processes, such an FMI
should maintain, at a minimum, sufficient resources to cover the exposures of the two clients
and their affiliates that would create the largest aggregate credit exposure in the system.
See Principle 15 on general business risk and Principle 7 on liquidity risk for the composition of financial
resources to cover current and potential future exposures.
Key consideration 4, 5 and 6 are not applicable to Euroclear Bank.

Key consideration 7: An FMI should establish explicit rules and procedures that address fully
any credit losses it may face as a result of any individual or combined default among its clients
with respect to any of their obligations to the FMI. These rules and procedures should address
how potentially uncovered credit losses would be allocated, including the repayment of any
funds an FMI may borrow from liquidity providers. These rules and procedures should also
indicate the FMI’s process to replenish any financial resources that the FMI may employ during
a stress event, so that the FMI can continue to operate in a safe and sound manner.
Explicit rules and procedures to address fully any credit losses
Credit granted by Euroclear Bank should as a rule be secured either by collateral held and pledged in the
Euroclear System, or through other recourses (See Principle 5).
In accordance with Euroclear Bank's Credit Risk Board Policy, the total amount of unsecured credit exposure
extended to any family should not exceed the total of capital (Tier 1, hybrid tier 1 and subordinated debt
(Tier 2)). This excludes Eaaa-rated OECD central banks.

56
EXK50057

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Unsecured credit exposure on clients
Euroclear Bank should cover its credit exposures to each client fully with a high degree of confidence using
collateral and other equivalent financial resources (equity can be used as well after deduction of the amount
dedicated to cover general business risk).
Approximately 99% of clients' settlement-related credit exposures are secured.
Other financial resources
See Principle 15 on general business risk and Principle 7 on liquidity risk.
Process for the replenishment of financial resources during a stress event
The recovery plan should address the extreme situation where unexpected credit loss could occur, see
Principles 13 and 15.

57
EXK50058

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Principle	5:	Collateral	
An FMI that requires collateral to manage its or its clients’ credit exposure should accept collateral with low
credit, liquidity and market risks. An FMI should also set and enforce appropriately conservative haircuts
and concentration limits.

Key consideration 1: An FMI should generally limit the assets it (routinely) accepts as collateral
to those with low credit, liquidity, and market risks.
Collateral framework
The collateral policy of Euroclear Bank is set out in the Credit Risk Board Policy and in the Collateral
Management Resolution.
The collateral arrangements between Euroclear Bank and its borrowing clients are governed by the
Collateral Agreement, which is signed at legal entity level.
Euroclear Bank’s credit exposures are mainly secured by clients’ cash or proprietary securities held in
accounts pledged6 to Euroclear Bank in the Euroclear System.
In principle, as soon as a security is eligible in the Euroclear System, it can be used as collateral provided
Euroclear Bank benefits from a reliable valuation for it. The client can find the information in EUCLID.
Euroclear Bank computes the collateral value it attributes to this security based on its collateral valuation
estimation methodology. It could also at its own discretion decide not to grant any collateral value to a
given security.
Euroclear Bank does not block specific assets as collateral but calculates the collateral value of all assets
held in pledged accounts and ensures that sufficient collateral is available at any time in the client's account
to cover its credit exposure on the latter.
Euroclear Bank maintains a floating charge of collateral to secure its exposure on a client. In case a client
defaults, Euroclear Bank is allowed to select on a discretionary basis the collateral it will liquidate first to
cover the exposure. Euroclear Bank will first liquidate the cash via its set-off right and then the securities.
Among the securities, Euroclear Bank will first sell the most liquid ones (e.g. government debt) and will
continue until full coverage of the client's exposure.
In practice, Euroclear Bank clients tend to be over-collateralised i.e. the amount of collateral pledged by a
client is higher than the credit exposure that Euroclear Bank has on this client.
Other types of recourse are possible e.g.: set-off and letters of credit, but their usage is extremely limited
in comparison with collateral held in Euroclear Bank books. In case of default, Euroclear Bank has the
possibility to set off a client’s exposures in one currency with its long cash balances in another currency.

6 Assets that cannot be pledged must be segregated in unpledged accounts.

58
EXK50059

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Both the letter of credit and set-off are used to secure Bridge exposures on Clearstream Banking
Luxembourg (see Principle 20).
Euroclear Bank can also rely, as a second line of defense, on the Belgian statutory lien to cover settlementrelated exposures. By law, Euroclear Bank benefits from a statutory lien on client assets held in the
Euroclear System. Euroclear Bank has however waived its lien on its clients’ client assets, except if the
latter has agreed in writing that the lien should continue to apply.
Euroclear Bank finally enjoys a general pledge right on its clients’ assets for all types of credit exposures
(including custody-related exposures).
In these two latter cases (Belgian statutory lien and general pledge right), the related collateral is accepted
and estimated under the same eligibility and valuation rules as pledged collateral.
The acceptance of new recourse types are approved on a case-by-case basis by Euroclear Bank’s
Management Committee.

Key consideration 2: An FMI should establish prudent valuation practices and develop haircuts
that are regularly tested and take into account stressed market conditions.
Collateral valuation and haircuts
The collateral value of securities held in the Euroclear System is assessed on a daily basis by obtaining a
market price and determining the haircut that has to be applied on each security.
Haircuts are computed by the internal Security Valuation Estimation (SVE) model for pledged collateral in
order to protect Euroclear Bank against a drop in market prices with a confidence level of 99% over a 10day period.



Cash collateral value

The valuation of cash collateral depends mainly on the accuracy of the currency margin and the FX
rate used.

‐

Currency margin: for settlement currencies, a 10 day VaR based on FX volatilities of each currency
is calculated. For USD, EUR, JPY and GBP, the currency margin is set at 5%. For other currencies,
the currency margin is higher.
In addition to this 10 day VaR, Euroclear Bank includes an additional margin reflecting the liquidity
of the currency.
59
EXK50060

Exhibit K-5


EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
Securities collateral value

Euroclear Bank defines the collateral value based on the following parameters:


the security's market value



the SVE factor: it computes a haircut to protect Euroclear Bank from the market, liquidity and event
risk (specific issuer credit or country risk) related to each security



the FX rate



the ‘own security’ margin: it is set to ‘0’ if the client belongs to the same family as the issuer of the
security



the Portfolio Value Estimation (PVE): if necessary, it allows to overall decrease or increase the
collateral value at client portfolio level to compensate for some elements such as for instance a
lack of collateral diversification.

Euroclear Bank can also take discretionary measures to apply additional margins at any time, and/or block
additional specific collateral, or ask for more collateral diversification. The market risk parameters
(volatilities), liquidity margins, credit risk values and new spread values for countries e.g. in case of
emergency situation (such as market crash, political event, etc…), can be input manually in the system.

Collateral valuation validation and monitoring
Euroclear Bank performs:


a SVE back test at security and at client portfolio level on a daily basis in order to take immediate
corrective action when required



a SVE stress test on an annual basis to validate the adequacy of clients' collateral portfolios to
cover Euroclear Bank credit exposure in extreme scenarios, such as:


the default of an issuer



a country in financial distress



a currency depreciation



an interest rate shock



a stock index shock



an error in the collateral valuation model

In these scenarios, Euroclear Bank simulates a significant one-day market price decrease on pledged assets
and considers a defaulting client the next day in order to compute the maximum unsecured amount at
client entity level which Euroclear Bank would have to absorb.

60
EXK50061

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Euroclear Bank is usually able to face such scenarios thanks to


its prudent haircuts



daily back-testing allowing for immediate corrective actions as well as



the overall over-collateralisation and diversification of its clients’ portfolios.

The Model Validation team of the Risk Management division also reviews the SVE model, like any other
Euroclear Bank risk model, on a regular basis and provides recommendations.

Key consideration 3: In order to reduce the need for pro-cyclical adjustments, an FMI should
establish stable and conservative haircuts that are calibrated to include periods of stressed
market conditions, to the extent practicable and prudent.
See answer to KC 2.

Key consideration 4: An FMI should avoid concentrated holdings of certain assets where this
would significantly impair the ability to liquidate such assets quickly without significant adverse
price effects.
Client collateral portfolio monitoring
Different controls and reports exist to monitor client collateral portfolios on a:
-

punctual basis to help credit decisions

-

weekly basis to control their quality and concentration

-

monthly basis to assess currency mismatches versus credit and liquidity exposures

Further to this monitoring, relevant mitigation actions are taken when required. For this purpose, Euroclear
Bank is also able to apply specific collateral quality parameters on a client basis.

Key consideration 5: An FMI that accepts cross-border collateral should mitigate the risks
associated with its use and ensure that the collateral can be used in a timely manner.
Collateral enforceability
In the Collateral Agreement, the client, as borrower, pledges and grants to Euroclear Bank a ‘security
interest’ in the collateral. With the help of local counsels, Euroclear Bank runs collateral surveys on a regular
basis to verify and monitor the validity and enforceability of its Collateral Agreement in the different clients’
jurisdictions.

61
EXK50062

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Key consideration 6: An FMI should use a collateral management system that is well-designed
and operationally flexible.
Collateral management system
Euroclear Bank collateral management process is quite automated and fully system-embedded. It ensures
at all times that any credit exposure on a client is covered by sufficient collateral as valued by SVE.
Securities that are purchased in a pledged account provide immediate collateral value and the client only
needs a collateral margin to cover the collateral haircut. Real-time reports are available to clients with a
credit facility for them to monitor their availability of credit and collateral as well as their credit usage and
projected credit needs to settle their activity.
A team of experts manage and control the collateral valuation process while a team of credit officers take
credit decisions and monitor collateral adequacy and concentrations in clients’ portfolios.
The responsibilities of all parties involved in the collateral valuation and monitoring processes are described
in the Collateral Implementing Procedure.

Principle	6:	Margin	
A CCP should cover its credit exposures to its clients for all products through an effective margin system
that is risk-based and regularly reviewed.
Not applicable to Euroclear Bank.

62
EXK50063

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Principle	7:	Liquidity	risk	
An FMI should effectively measure, monitor, and manage its liquidity risk. An FMI should maintain sufficient
liquid resources in all relevant currencies to effect same-day and, where appropriate, intraday and multiday
settlement of payment obligations with a high degree of confidence under a wide range of potential stress
scenarios that should include, but not be limited to, the default of the client and its affiliates that would
generate the largest aggregate liquidity obligation for the FMI in extreme but plausible market conditions.

Key consideration 1: A FMI should have a robust framework to manage its liquidity risks from
its clients, settlement banks, nostro agents, custodian banks, liquidity providers and other
entities.
Identification of liquidity risks
Sources of liquidity risk
Euroclear Bank can grant credit facilities to its clients to settle a transaction in case their available cash
position is not sufficient.
Settlement related credit exposures arise because:


clients do not hold their cash reserves at Euroclear Bank



of time lags between the in/outflow of funds due to the different time zones in which clients
act.

Settlement related credit exposures can be mainly characterised as intraday credit usage.
The intraday credit is granted from the moment the client's cash account is debited (e.g. for the purchase
of securities) until its cash account is credited by an equivalent amount of cash, reimbursing the debit
position.
Individual clients' intraday credit exposures may last for a period as short as a couple of seconds up to
several hours.
To mitigate credit risk, intraday settlement credit exposures are almost fully covered by pledged collateral
in the books of Euroclear Bank.
EB settles in multiple settlement currencies. Euroclear Bank has identified as relevant currencies for liquidity
management purposes and stress testing: EUR, USD, GBP and JPY. The liquidity backtests are now ran for
all currencies.
Timing of pay-in and pay-out cash flows
The settlement of Euroclear Bank clients' buy and sell transactions results in (net) debit or credit cash
balances on their cash accounts in Euroclear Bank.
In the course of the day, clients will instruct Euroclear Bank to either:


pay-out the available net credit cash balances



pay-in the amount due, should the net balance of their cash account be negative.
63
EXK50064

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

All pay-in and -out flows are processed via cash correspondents or TARGET2.

Pay-out flows
Clients with net credit cash balances (i.e. securities sales > securities purchases) (1) can decide to wire
their settlement proceeds out of the system for use elsewhere (2). They usually instruct Euroclear Bank to
wire cash out early in the morning.
Pay-out flows are processed via Euroclear Bank's nostro cash accounts with its cash correspondents or via
TARGET2 (3).
Euroclear Bank’s cash correspondent transfers the payment in its own books (in case the Euroclear Bank
client has also an account with Euroclear Bank’s cash correspondent) or sends the payment to the Euroclear
Bank client’s own cash correspondent (4).
Pay-out of settlement proceeds

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

Pay-in flows
clients with net debit cash balances resulting from overnight settlement activity (i.e. securities purchases
> securities sales) have been granted (intraday) credit from Euroclear Bank (1).
These clients can reimburse in the course of the day their debit cash balances (2) by sending funds to
Euroclear Bank's nostro account with one of its cash correspondents (or through TARGET2) (3).

As soon as the Euroclear Bank cash correspondent (or NBB via TARGET2) confirms the payment, the client's
net debit cash balance (i.e. the intraday credit exposure of Euroclear Bank on the client) is updated
accordingly (4).

64
EXK50065

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Reimbursement of net debit cash position

As explained above, clients with net credit cash balances usually instruct to wire their settlement proceeds
out of the system early in the day. As a rule, clients' intraday debit cash balances, on the other hand, will
be reimbursed in the course of the day.
Timing of EUR incoming funds/payments
Cash correspondents uncommitted intraday credit facilities help Euroclear Bank process its clients wire
transfers before Euroclear Bank’s accounts at cash correspondents are funded. These pay-in flows will
compensate the intraday credit granted by the cash correspondents.
Liquidity risk framework
Euroclear Bank has established a Liquidity Risk Board Policy complemented by management resolutions.
The Board Policy principles address liquidity risk resulting from client settlement and treasury activities.
The availability of sufficient liquidity is considered particularly critical in the following instances:


in the evening preceding the overnight process where pre-collateralisation is required in some
domestic markets (i.e. Germany, France, Denmark, Italy)



early in the morning when time critical payments need to be made (cross-border settlement in
France and Germany, net payments to Clearstream Banking Luxembourg resulting from Bridge
activity)



when new issue payments need to be made



throughout the day, to support payment, settlement and custody activity



in case of stress, to ensure business continuity

65
EXK50066

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Key consideration 2: An FMI should have effective operational and analytical tools to identify,
measure, and monitor its settlement and funding flows on an ongoing and timely basis, including
its use of intraday liquidity.
Operational tools
Euroclear Bank has an integrated management tool that allows collecting on a regular basis during the day
the information on anticipated cash movements from different activities (Money Transfer, Settlement,
Custody, Bridge, etc.) by Euroclear Bank nostro account and by value date.
Exceptional activity (e.g. large new issues, big income proceeds, important settlement activity) which might
put intraday liquidity under pressure are reported separately to the liquidity management team so it can:


mobilise the required sources



if needed, contact the relevant cash correspondent to alert them to ensure timely execution of the
related payments

Through a daily reconciliation process of all entries on the nostro accounts, Euroclear Bank identifies expost a.o. potential unexecuted clients' payments. Where necessary, appropriate escalation is made to
ensure payments are executed with correct value date. ‘Liquidity’ KRI reports all unexecuted payments.
Existing Euroclear Bank systems do not currently provide a real-time view on the moment the nostro
account with the cash correspondent is debited, nor when the effective payment is made by the cash
correspondent to the beneficiary.
The delivery of a new monitoring tool to collect real-time information from cash correspondents is planned
by end 2015.
In case of contingency, Euroclear Bank has the possibility to consult via web-based/online services some
nostro accounts at some correspondent banks. This consultation facility is however not yet fully integrated
in Euroclear Bank's day-to-day liquidity management.
Euroclear Bank relies on the cash correspondent to process payments with value date T. Cash
correspondents are requested to inform Euroclear Bank in case payments are blocked for execution so that
appropriate escalation is made.
Analytical tools
Euroclear Bank has developed a ‘liquidity data warehouse’. All liquidity back and stress testing exercises
are performed on this database.

66
EXK50067

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Client tools
Euroclear Bank clients can consult a Real-time Cash Position Report and Real-time Credit Report.


The Real-time Cash Position Report provides information - per currency - on the client's
real-time cash position resulting from different activities in the Euroclear system (i.e.
overnight and real-time settlement, custody, money transfer).



The Real-time Credit Report provides information - in USD equivalent only – on:
o

the client's credit line

o

its real-time credit usage (cash & securities) and the available pledged
collateral

o

the total number and value of instructions blocked due to lack of credit or
collateral

o

the projected net cash value of all eligible receipt and delivery instructions
(matched, unmatched and unsettled) for settlement the next day. A similar
projection is done for the projected net collateral value of all instructions
for settlement the next day.

Key consideration 3: A payment system or SSS, including one employing a DNS mechanism,
should maintain sufficient liquid resources in all relevant currencies to effect same-day
settlement, and where appropriate intraday or multiday settlement, of payment obligations with
a high degree of confidence under a wide range of potential stress scenarios that should include,
but not be limited to, the default of the client and its affiliates that would generate the largest
aggregate payment obligation in extreme but plausible market conditions.
Minimum liquidity resource requirements
The quarterly liquidity back test is an ex-post test.
Euroclear Bank's sources of liquidity are compared with the largest exposures observed on the top two
clients (at family level) for all relevant currencies and for EUR, USD, GBP and JPY separately.
Liquidity back and stress tests are regularly performed. Their outcome is analysed and recommendations
are made accordingly (e.g. on the size of liquidity sources).
Additional liquidity resource requirements
Intraday settlement credit exposures are almost fully covered by pledged collateral in the books of Euroclear
Bank. Euroclear Bank can rely on pledged collateral as additional liquidity sources when the client that
defaults has signed the APS agreement.

67
EXK50068

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The following scenarios have been stress tested by Euroclear Bank in 2014:


Scenario 1: IT outage at cash correspondent (€ and $)



Scenario 2: Default of a major emerging market country



Scenario 3: Sudden loss of client balances



Scenario 4: Multiple Investment Banks in default



Scenario 5: Cash correspondent/Settlement bank in default



Scenario 6: Intra-day cut of cash correspondent lines (€, $, £ and Yen)



Scenario 7: Default of APS Client being a Depository



Scenario 8: Daily liquidity back-test (default of top 2 clients - run quarterly)

Scenario 1: Country/ies in default


Scope: Euroclear Bank has simulated the default of the PIIGS countries, separately and

simultaneously.

Scenario 2: IT outage USD cash correspondent


Scope: The stress test simulated an IT outage for 24 hours at one of Euroclear Bank’s USD cash

correspondent. USD long cash balances with the cash correspondent were considered to be zero.

Scenario 3: Multiple investment bank failure


Scope: Euroclear Bank simulated a simultaneous failure of three investment banks. These

investment banks have signed the APS agreement. The total exposure of Euroclear Bank on the three
investment banks is fully covered with securities collateral.
Scenario 4: Intraday cut of EUR, USD, GBP and JPY cash correspondent lines (reverse stress test scenario)


Scope: To assess whether Euroclear Bank disposes of enough liquidity sources to enable business

continuity in EUR, USD, GBP and JPY markets whereas the cash correspondent intraday credit lines are not
available.

Key consideration 4: A CCP should maintain sufficient liquid resources in all relevant currencies
to settle securities-related payments, make required variation margin payments, and meet
other payment obligations on time with a high degree of confidence under a wide range of
potential stress scenarios that should include, but not be limited to, the default of the client and
its affiliates that would generate the largest aggregate payment obligation to the CCP in extreme
but plausible market conditions. In addition, a CCP that is involved in activities with a morecomplex risk profile or that is systemically important in multiple jurisdictions should consider
maintaining additional liquidity resources sufficient to cover a wider range of potential stress
scenarios that should include, but not be limited to, the default of the two clients and their
affiliates that would generate the largest aggregate payment obligation to the CCP in extreme
but plausible market conditions.
Not applicable to Euroclear Bank.
68
EXK50069

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Key consideration 5: For the purpose of meeting its minimum liquid resource requirement, an
FMI’s qualifying liquid resources in each currency include cash at the central bank of issue and
at credit worthy commercial banks, committed lines of credit, committed foreign exchange
swaps, and committed repos, as well as highly marketable collateral held in custody and
investments that are readily available and convertible into cash with prearranged and highly
reliable funding arrangements, even in extreme but plausible market conditions. If an FMI has
access to routine credit at the central bank of issue, the FMI may count such access as part of
the minimum requirement to the extent it has collateral that is eligible for pledging to (or for
conducting other appropriate forms of transactions with) the relevant central bank. All such
resources should be available when needed.
Categorization of liquid resources
Euroclear Bank relies on different liquidity resources both for liquidity risks arising from day-to-day
operations and in case of contingency. Four classes of liquidity resources are used:


committed liquidity resources



APS collateral



highly reliable liquidity resources



uncommitted liquidity resources

Committed liquidity sources


Investment book: Euroclear Bank has an investment book invested in ESCB-eligible
securities, which are pledged to NBB to obtain liquidity.



Treasury book: Euroclear Bank has a treasury book partially invested in ESCB-eligible
securities, which are pledged at NBB to obtain liquidity.
ECB eligible securities received in reverse Triparty repos can be used, as of Q3 2014, to
increase the pledge ESCB-eligible securities at NBB.



Bilateral standby facilities: Granted by commercial banks based on bilateral contracts
foreseeing that these amounts should be provided same-day to Euroclear Bank upon simple
request.



Backstop facility: Multicurrency contingency liquidity facility provided by a syndicate of
banks.



Committed FX swap facilities: Euroclear Bank has a committed swap facility that could
be used to convert liquidity available in one currency into another.

Appropriation of Pledged Securities (APS)


For clients that are top credit users in Euroclear Bank, an arrangement has been set up
allowing Euroclear Bank after such client has been put into default to immediately
appropriate the client's pledged securities.

69
EXK50070

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Highly reliable liquidity sources


clients' ‘core’ cash balances: clients leave long cash positions on their accounts, which
can be used as an operational liquidity source by Euroclear Bank. These long cash positions
could (at least partially) be considered as working cash balances for securities settlement
in the books of Euroclear Bank.

Uncommitted liquidity sources


‘Non-core’ clients' long cash balances: clients long cash positions that are not considered as
liquid resources.



Intraday line cash correspondents (CACO): Euroclear Bank's cash correspondents provide
Euroclear Bank with intraday credit facilities that are uncommitted and undisclosed.



Intraday credit lines with other commercial banks (non-cash correspondents): credit lines
provided by commercial banks that are not linked to daily processing of pay-in and out flows.



Settlement agents’ operational lines: for cross-border settlement in some local markets,
Euroclear Bank installs liquidity/collateral arrangements with settlement agents (e.g. Denmark,
France, Germany, and Italy).



Unsecured and secured borrowing capacity: Euroclear Bank has treasury relationships with
several market counterparts worldwide from which it might borrow in case of need.



FX Swap: (see above, but uncommitted).

Key consideration 6: An FMI may supplement its qualifying liquid resources with other forms of
liquid resources. If the FMI does so, then these liquid resources should be in the form of assets
that are likely to be saleable or acceptable as collateral for lines of credit, swaps, or repos on an
ad hoc basis following a default, even if this cannot be reliably prearranged or guaranteed in
extreme market conditions. Even if an FMI does not have access to routine central bank credit,
it should still take account of what collateral is typically accepted by the relevant central bank,
as such assets may be more likely to be liquid in stressed circumstances. An FMI should not
assume the availability of emergency central bank credit as a part of its liquidity plan.
In case of a failure of a non-APS client, no supplemental liquid resources should be necessary as the
potential exposure would be capped at the level of the liquid sources. The purpose for Euroclear Bank is to
cover in fact two simultaneous defaults; i.e. 50% of the total liquid sources would cover the liquidity risk
created by exposures not covered by APS collateral.
Key consideration 7: An FMI should obtain a high degree of confidence, through rigorous due
diligence, that each provider of its minimum required qualifying liquid resources, whether a
client of the FMI or an external party, has sufficient information to understand and to manage
its associated liquidity risks, and that it has the capacity to perform as required under its
commitment. Where relevant to assessing a liquidity provider’s performance reliability with
respect to a particular currency, a liquidity provider’s potential access to credit from the central
bank of issue may be taken into account. An FMI should regularly test its procedures for
accessing its liquid resources at a liquidity provider.
70
EXK50071

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The selection process and criteria (financial, reputational, operational), as well as the monitoring process,
of liquidity providers is defined in the Selection and Monitoring of Agents Management Resolution.
The back-stop facility is provided by a syndicate of banks.
Where applicable, we perform RFPs to select cash correspondents, regular performance scoring and due
diligence visits.
The main elements of Euroclear Bank's liquidity risk management, including the distinction between dayto-day versus contingency liquidity management, are disclosed in the Euroclear plc Basel II - Disclosure
and the ESCB-CESR Disclosure Framework.
For the bilateral standby facilities, both the communication arrangement and the transfer of funds are
tested on a regular basis.

Key consideration 8: An FMI with access to central bank accounts, payment services, or
securities services should use these services, where practical, to enhance its management of
liquidity risk.
To support day-to-day payment activity, Euroclear Bank relies primarily on:


a large network of cash correspondents.



a direct access to TARGET2 for EUR payments.

Euroclear Bank holds accounts at a number of central banks. These accounts have different purposes:


Euroclear Bank account at the NBB (for EUR):


fulfils reserve requirements and accesses the European RTGS system TARGET2.



limits Euroclear Bank’s credit risk vis-à-vis redeposit counterparties.



Perform securities settlement in the local market



Euroclear Bank account at central banks issuing major currencies
‐

limits Euroclear Bank's credit risk vis-à-vis redeposit counterparties, Euroclear Bank
has contingency deposit accounts at the central banks issuing major currencies.
These accounts are intended to be used only in exceptional circumstances, in cases
of market wide stress.



Limit Euroclear Bank’s exposure on its local cash correspondents.

71
EXK50072

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Key consideration 9: An FMI should determine the amount and regularly test the sufficiency of
its liquid resources through rigorous stress testing. An FMI should have clear procedures to
report the results of its stress tests to appropriate decision makers at the FMI and to use these
results to evaluate the adequacy of and adjust its liquidity risk-management framework. In
conducting stress testing, an FMI should consider a wide range of relevant scenarios. Scenarios
should include relevant peak historic price volatilities, shifts in other market factors such as
price determinants and yield curves, multiple defaults over various time horizons, simultaneous
pressures in funding and asset markets, and a spectrum of forward-looking stress scenarios in
a variety of extreme but plausible market conditions. Scenarios should also take into account
the design and operation of the FMI, include all entities that might pose material liquidity risks
to the FMI (such as settlement banks, nostro agents, custodian banks, liquidity providers, and
linked FMIs), and where appropriate, cover a multiday period. In all cases, an FMI should
document its supporting rationale for, and should have appropriate governance arrangements
relating to, the amount and form of total liquid resources it maintains.

Identification
Liquidity back test
Following CPMI-IOSCO guidance on liquidity stress test, Euroclear Bank performs a quarterly liquidity stress
simulating the default of a Client (at family level) with the highest exposure observed every day of the
period under review.
In addition, Euroclear Bank carries out a stress test simulating the simultaneous default of the top two
Clients (at family level).
The largest exposures resulting from the default of one or two families is considered:
- in each single relevant currency (EUR, USD, GBP and JPY)
- at aggregated level (multi-currency)
Crisis management exercise
At least on a yearly basis, Euroclear Bank organises a desk top exercise covering an operational or financial
incident. These tests also cover crisis management of credit and liquidity risks.
The Liquidity Risk Board Policy states that liquidity stress tests should be conducted on a regular basis to
assess the potential impact of extreme but plausible scenarios and the assumptions of the stress tests
should be reviewed regularly.
The Board Policy also refers to the liquidity contingency plan which should be reviewed and tested on a
regular basis.

72
EXK50073

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Euroclear Bank has developed specific stress testing management resolutions, which includes the list of
crisis scenarios to be executed on a regular basis. The Euroclear Bank Management Committee approves
(changes to) the liquidity stress testing scenarios and assumptions.
Communication
The results of the liquidity stress tests are reported to the Euroclear Bank Management Committee, with
recommendations from Euroclear Risk Management if applicable.
The results of the liquidity back-tests are presented at the Credit Assets & Liabilities Committee (CALCO).
Based on the results of the stress tests, Euroclear Risk Management can recommend to take measures
concerning Euroclear Bank's liquidity sources (e.g. maintain or possibly increase the FX swap facilities).

Key consideration 10: An FMI should establish explicit rules and procedures that enable the
FMI to effect same day and, where appropriate, intraday and multiday settlement of payment
obligations on time following any individual or combined default among its clients. These rules
and procedures should address unforeseen and potentially uncovered liquidity shortfalls and
should aim to avoid unwinding, revoking, or delaying the same-day settlement of payment
obligations. These rules and procedures should also indicate the FMI’s process to replenish
any liquidity resources it may employ during a stress event, so that it can continue to operate
in a safe and sound manner.

The Euroclear Bank stress testing management resolutions aim to test the ability of Euroclear Bank to return to a state
of full operational readiness following a severe stress event of either operational or financial nature. Intraday settlement
credit exposures are for about 99% currently covered by pledged collateral. EB can rely on pledged collateral as additional
committed liquidity sources in any participant default. The results of the stress tests (performed by Risk Management)
and the resulting recommendations are discussed and approved by the CALCO.

73
EXK50074

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Principle	8:	Settlement	finality	
An FMI should provide clear and certain final settlement, at a minimum by the end of the value date.
Where necessary or preferable, an FMI should provide final settlement intraday or in real time.

Key consideration 1: An FMI’s rules and procedures should clearly define the point at which
settlement is final.
The Euroclear System operated by Euroclear Bank is governed by Belgian law. The Euroclear System is
designated as a Securities Settlement System (SSS) in accordance with the Belgian Settlement Finality
Law which implements the EU Finality Directive. This legislation is publicly available on
www.moniteur.be/www.staatsblad.be and provides that the finality rules are determined by the SSS
itself.
The Terms and Conditions, the Operating Procedures and the Euroclear documentation are enforceable in
the event of the insolvency of a system client, the operator of the system or the operator of a linked or
interoperable system.
The finality rules of instructions in the Euroclear System are detailed in the contractual documentation
(Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System) which is available on the Euroclear website.
The point of finality depends on whether the transfer is done via internal settlement (i.e. transfer
between two clients having an account in Euroclear Bank), via the Bridge (i.e. between an Euroclear Bank
and a Clearstream Banking Luxembourg client) or via external settlement (i.e. between an Euroclear
Bank client and a client in a local market):


Internal settlement: Section 5.2.2.5 of Euroclear Bank’s Operating Procedures states that ‘The
settlement of an internal Instruction is final upon execution and the credit/debit of Accounts. As
such, the simultaneous transfer of securities and transfer of cash (if against payment) is final at
such time.’ Provided that all conditions for settlement are fulfilled (e.g. instructions are matched,
sufficient cash/credit or securities are available, settlement date has been reached), this execution
of internal settlement instructions and generation of records occurs either:



o

at the end of an overnight securities settlement batch during the night

o

in real time, during the day, for the real-time processing

Bridge settlement: Section 5.2.3.7 of Euroclear Bank’s Operating Procedures details the finality
rules for receipts and deliveries from and to Clearstream Banking Luxembourg over the Bridge.
Securities transfers over the Bridge in the real-time processing are final upon successful execution
and credit to the Securities Clearance Account (for receipts) or when Clearstream Banking
Luxembourg records the credit of securities (for deliveries). For securities transfers via the
overnight batch, finality is reached when the other side has confirmed acceptance of the securities.



External settlement: Section 5.2.4.9 of Euroclear Bank’s Operating Procedures states that
‘Settlement and finality occurs in the local market in accordance with local market rules and

74
EXK50075

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
practice’. A detailed document is provided in the online market guides, available on
www.euroclear.com

Consistency between the securities leg and the cash leg of delivery-versus-payment transactions is
ensured since both legs are settled in Euroclear Bank’s books for Euroclear Bank clients.
For all links it opens in local markets, Euroclear Bank’s Network Management department performs a
market link risk assessment and obtains confirmation that no provisional credit is made on the securities
account opened by Euroclear Bank. Euroclear Bank cannot prevent being credited with provisional
transfers of securities across its links with other markets in very limited circumstances. The only case in
Euroclear Bank is the US market based on DTCC market rules. In this case, Euroclear Bank prohibits
retransfer of these securities until they become final.
Please refer to principle 20 for further considerations on links.

Key consideration 2: An FMI should complete final settlement no later than the end of the value
date, and preferably intraday or in real time, to reduce settlement risk. An LVPS or SSS should
consider adopting RTGS or multiple-batch processing during the settlement day.
The majority of transactions in the Euroclear System is settled in the overnight batch dated the value
date. Transactions that did not settle during the overnight batch and transactions that are entered the
same day can settle in the real-time processing with same-day value date.
Since most transactions settle the night dated the intended settlement date or during the real-time
settlement processing on the intended settlement date deferrals are rare.
During the daytime, final settlement is provided in the real-time processing from approximately 01:30 to
19:00 Brussels time.
During the night between S-1 and S settlement finality occurs at the end of the overnight batch:
There are three additional ways of improving settlement efficiency:
-

Credit facilities: for clients who do not have enough funds, Euroclear Bank may – under certain
conditions and subject to limits (see Principle 4) – provide credit to the client.

-

Securities Lending and Borrowing Programme: clients may also – under certain conditions – borrow
securities by subscribing to the Lending and Borrowing Programme.

-

Euroclear Bank also provides settlement optimisation features such as technical netting to reduce
collateral needs of its clients in the settlement cycle.

Instructions may be recycled in the real-time processing during the settlement date. The system will
attempt to settle the instruction during the real-time processing of the settlement date, the overnight
batch and real-time processing of the next settlement date and so on until the instruction is settled or
cancelled.

75
EXK50076

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Euroclear Bank provides reporting in real time to clients on settlement of instructions and securities
account balances.

Key consideration 3: An FMI should clearly define the point after which unsettled payments,
transfer instructions, or other obligations may not be revoked by a client.
The rules related to when an instruction is irrevocable are articulated in Section 4.1.5 (Cancellation and
modification of Instructions) of the Operating Procedures, which are part of the contractual framework
between Euroclear Bank and its clients and are publicly available on euroclear.com
Section 4.1.5.2 of Euroclear Bank’s Operating Procedures defines which instructions can be unilaterally
cancelled by clients: cancellation instructions must be sent by the input deadline of the settlement
process for which instructions are eligible for settlement (i.e. received and validated but not yet executed
by Euroclear Bank). After this input deadline, instructions become irrevocable.
The input deadline depends on whether the instructions are to be processed in the internal settlement,
Bridge settlement or external settlement:
-

Internal settlement: for instructions entered in the system before the settlement date (and that
are eligible to be settled during the overnight batch), cancellation instructions must be received
before 22:00 Brussels time on the day before the intended settlement date. Settlement instructions
entered during the real-time processing dated settlement date settle in principle immediately
(provided they are matched and sufficient cash and securities are available). If they have not
settled yet, they can be cancelled until the input deadline (19:00 at the latest).

-

Bridge settlement: the input deadlines are 20:30 Brussels time on the day before the intended
settlement date (overnight securities settlement processing) or 17:25 at the latest for the realtime processing dated settlement date (for optional against payment instructions).

-

External settlement: the deadlines for external instructions depend on the local market rules.
These deadlines are detailed in the online market guides, available on euroclear.com

After the above mentioned deadlines, instructions become irrevocable for clients.
Please note that Euroclear Bank has the right to cancel instructions at any stage (section 4.1.5.1 of the
Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System).
Section 4.1.3.1 (c) of the Operating Procedures foresees that Euroclear Bank ‘may try to process
Instructions received or validated after an input deadline (…)’.

76
EXK50077

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Principle	9:	Money	settlements	
An FMI should conduct its money settlements in central bank money where practical and available. If
central bank money is not used, an FMI should minimise and strictly control the credit and liquidity risk
arising from the use of commercial bank money.

Key consideration 1: An FMI should conduct its money settlements in central bank money,
where practical and available, to avoid credit and liquidity risks.
Euroclear Bank does not conduct its money settlements in central bank money. Money settlement in all
eligible settlement currencies is carried out in the books of Euroclear Bank itself in commercial bank
money, as it is not feasible or practical that Euroclear Bank and/or its clients (both from Belgium and
different parts of the world) open accounts at more than 50 central banks of which the currency is eligible
in Euroclear Bank. All Euroclear Bank clients have cash accounts in the relevant settlement currencies in
the books of Euroclear Bank. Money settlements are effected by crediting and debiting the relevant cash
accounts of the clients.

Key consideration 2: If central bank money is not used, an FMI should conduct its money
settlements using a settlement asset with little or no credit or liquidity risk.
As settlement occurs in the books of Euroclear Bank, the settlement asset used is a claim on Euroclear
Bank itself, an AA+ rated de facto limited-purpose bank. More details on how Euroclear Bank manages its
credit and liquidity risk can be found in Principles 4 and 7.

Key consideration 3: If an FMI settles in commercial bank money, it should monitor, manage,
and limit its credit and liquidity risks arising from the commercial settlement banks. In
particular, an FMI should establish and monitor adherence to strict criteria for its settlement
banks that take account of, among other things, their regulation and supervision, creditworthiness, capitalisation, access to liquidity, and operational reliability. An FMI should also
monitor and manage the concentration of credit and liquidity exposures to its commercial
settlement banks.
This KC is not applicable, as no settlement banks are used in Euroclear Bank to support money
settlements. All clients have a cash account directly in Euroclear Bank.

77
EXK50078

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Key consideration 4: If an FMI conducts money settlements on its own books, it should
minimise and strictly control its credit and liquidity risks.
Euroclear Bank is a limited purpose bank that only offers banking and credit facilities that are linked to its
custody and settlement functions. All Euroclear Bank clients have cash accounts in the relevant
settlement currencies in the books of Euroclear Bank. Money settlements are conducted by debiting or
crediting the cash accounts of the counterparties of a transaction with the relevant cash amount of the
transaction.
Euroclear Bank manages its credit and liquidity risk taking into account its own Enterprise Risk
Management Framework. Its credit risk vis-à-vis its cash correspondents is managed firstly by a careful
selection and monitoring of the cash correspondents and secondly by an active management of its long
balances (use of reverse repos, central bank accounts, diversification of cash correspondents, etc.). For
more details on Euroclear’s risk management, please refer to the Principle 3. Euroclear Bank’s liquidity
risk management is explained in Principle 7.

Key consideration 5: An FMI’s legal agreements with any settlement banks should state clearly
when transfers on the books of individual settlement banks are expected to occur, that
transfers are to be final when effected, and that funds received should be transferable as soon
as possible, at a minimum by the end of the day and ideally intraday, in order to enable the
FMI and its clients to manage credit and liquidity risks.
This key consideration is not applicable, as no settlement banks are used. All clients have a cash account
directly in Euroclear Bank.

78
EXK50079

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Principle	10:	Physical	deliveries	
An FMI should clearly state its obligations with respect to the delivery of physical instruments or
commodities and should identify, monitor, and manage the risks associated with such physical deliveries.

Key consideration 1: An FMI’s rules should clearly state its obligations with respect to the
delivery of physical instruments or commodities.
The Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System clearly state the specific rules in relation to the receipt
and delivery of physical instruments. In particular:
Receipts of physical securities (or ownership transference documents) become final only once:
- if received by a Depository directly, the credit to our account at the Depository is final, or
- if received by Euroclear Bank or a Depository through an Other Settlement System - the transfer to our,
the Depository’s or appropriate nominee’s account is final under local market rules/practice.
Deliveries of physical securities become final only once:
- the transfer is deemed final under local market rules/practice, or
- if transferred by Euroclear Bank or a Depository through another Settlement System - our local market
account is debited and the intended recipient’s account is credited
(Please refer to Euroclear Bank’s Operating Procedures Section 2.3.2.1)
If the settlement is through a physical receipt/delivery of securities, it will occur to or from an account
outside the Euroclear System with corresponding movements into the Euroclear Bank related Transit
Account.
(Please refer to Euroclear Bank’s Operating Procedures Section 5.2.4)

Key consideration 2: An FMI should identify, monitor, and manage the risks and costs
associated with the storage and delivery of physical instruments or commodities.
Euroclear Bank identifies the physical form of securities and adapts its processes for their receipt and
delivery accordingly (see key consideration 1 above). When securities are held in physical form, including
in the form of global certificates that are immobilised, Euroclear Bank's due diligence procedures foresee
a yearly vault inspection that includes a physical verification of securities in the vault. Euroclear Bank's
insurance policies include coverage for losses of physical securities.

79
EXK50080

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Principle	11:	Central	Securities	Depositories	(CSD)	
A CSD should have appropriate rules and procedures to help ensure the integrity of securities issues and
minimise and manage the risks associated with the safekeeping and transfer of securities. A CSD should
maintain securities in an immobilised or dematerialised form for their transfer by book entry.

Key consideration 1: A CSD should have appropriate rules, procedures, and controls, including
robust accounting practices, to safeguard the rights of securities issuers and holders, prevent
the unauthorised creation or deletion of securities, and conduct periodic and at least daily
reconciliation of securities issues it maintains.
Euroclear Bank has appropriate rules, procedures and controls to safeguard the rights of the securities
issuers and holders and prevent unauthorised creation or deletion of securities. Euroclear Bank applies
the Belgian and European accounting principles, which are summarised in CBFA Circular 2007-77:
-

Client assets and own assets should be completely separated (principle 2)

-

The following accounting principles should be used (principle 4) :
o

Accounts should be of the type of assets and liabilities accounts

o

Double-entry accounting according to the debit-credit principle

o

Balance between debit and credit at all times

o

Daily booking, without delay, of transactions

o

Simultaneous booking of the securities and cash leg

The accounting practices and the reference to Royal Decree 62 can be found in the Terms & Conditions
Section 4 (Holding of Securities; Terms of Custody), which are part of the contractual framework between
Euroclear Bank and its clients.
Euroclear Bank performs two kinds of reconciliation.
-

Internal reconciliation, where the sum of the clients’ securities balances is
reconciled with the internal account reflecting the total of these securities held at
Euroclear Bank’s Depository. Any discrepancies between these accounts are detected
automatically.

-

External reconciliations are performed by Euroclear Bank. Most securities
movements are reconciled on a daily basis with the Depositories. Each month,
Euroclear Bank reconciles for all securities the total of clients’ securities balances at
the end of the month in its books with the securities balances reported by the
Depositories. For certain securities (New Global Notes held at Common Safekeepers),
Euroclear Bank also performs a daily reconciliation of balances.

7 This is a prudential supervision standard, issued by the prudential supervisor CBFA (since 1 April 2011 NBB)

80
EXK50081

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Creation of securities positions is only performed upon receipt of securities to be credited to client
accounts. Removal of these securities positions is generally performed upon final maturity or in the
context of a corporate event (e.g. exchange). Both creation and deletion are generally processed without
manual intervention at Euroclear Bank upon client instruction and depository confirmation. Movements in
client accounts are reported on a daily basis to clients.
These procedures and controls are regularly reviewed by Euroclear’s Internal Audit and by its external
auditor. The results of this review are made available to clients and authorities via the yearly ISAE
(International Standard on Assurance Engagements) 3402 report. In addition, each year, the external
auditor reports its findings on Euroclear Bank’s internal controls regarding the safekeeping of clients’
assets to the Belgian authorities.

Key consideration 2: A CSD should prohibit overdrafts and debit balances in securities
accounts.
The Terms & Conditions determine that ‘Debit balances or overdrafts in Securities Clearance Accounts are
prohibited in the Euroclear System’ (Section 15c). Any transaction that may lead to a debit position in the
client’s account will not be executed.

Key consideration 3: A CSD should maintain securities in an immobilised or dematerialised
form for their transfer by book entry. Where appropriate, a CSD should provide incentives to
immobilise or dematerialise securities.
Although many securities that are held and settled in Euroclear Bank are issued in physical form, all
securities settled in Euroclear Bank are immobilised or dematerialised and transferred by book-entry in
the system. To be held in Euroclear Bank, physical securities need to be immobilised with a CSD or with a
Depository.

Key consideration 4: A CSD should protect assets against custody risk through appropriate
rules and procedures consistent with its legal framework
Clients’ assets are protected through Euroclear Bank’s accounting practices and internal controls, the
segregation from Euroclear Bank’s own assets and the protection against Euroclear Bank’s creditors,
including in case of bankruptcy of Euroclear Bank. Euroclear Bank is also legally prohibited from using
clients’ assets without their consent.
In addition, frequent reconciliations allow swift identification of errors if any.

81
EXK50082

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Euroclear Bank has procedures to select its Depositories (see Principle 16). Both Euroclear Bank and its
depositories maintain insurance coverage with respect to clients’ securities. Euroclear Bank also
periodically obtains legal opinions under the local law of the depositories to ensure that the level of asset
protection under local law is comparable to the asset protection in Belgium (see Principle 1).

Key consideration 5: A CSD should employ a robust system that ensures segregation between
the CSD’s own assets and the securities of its clients and segregation among the securities of
clients. Where supported by the legal framework, the CSD should also support operationally the
segregation of securities belonging to a client’s customers on the client’s books and facilitate
the transfer of customer holdings.
Euroclear Bank segregates its own securities from those of its clients in its own books and/or at the level
of Euroclear Bank’s Depositories. clients’ assets are segregated from the assets of the other clients in the
books of Euroclear Bank. Clients may also segregate their own securities from those of their underlying
customers in the books of Euroclear Bank. Euroclear Bank will in principle not rely on the assets of its
clients’ customers to cover exposures on its clients, as Euroclear Bank has waived the statutory lien on all
securities credited to a Securities Clearance Account which has been separately and expressly identified
in writing by the client as an account to which solely customer securities are credited8.
At the level of the Depositories of Euroclear Bank, the clients’ assets are held in an omnibus account,
segregated from the Depository’s own assets and/or from the assets of other clients of the Depository, in
accordance with local legal and regulatory requirements.
Customer holdings can easily be transferred to another client via a simple transfer instruction by the
client or its liquidator. The underlying customers can however not send transfer instructions themselves,
as they are not necessarily known to Euroclear Bank9.

Key consideration 6: A CSD should identify, measure, monitor, and manage its risks from other
activities that it may perform; additional tools may be necessary in order to address these
risks.
Euroclear Bank offers services related to custody and settlement of assets, including the provision of
credit to clients in order to facilitate the efficient settlement of their instructions. For all its services,
Euroclear Bank identifies, measures, monitors and manages its risks in line with its Enterprise Risk
Management framework. Before new services are offered, they need to be approved after a risk
assessment (see Principle 3).

8 Operating Procedures, Section 10.1 (b)
9 If Euroclear Bank adds a designation in an account identifying the name of a person other than the client, such
designation does not create any contractual relationship between such designated person and Euroclear Bank, or
otherwise give the designated person any claim against Euroclear Bank with respect to any securities or cash held in
these accounts (Operating Procedures, Section 3.6.1 b)

82
EXK50083

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Principle	12:	Exchange‐of‐value	settlement	systems	
If an FMI settles transactions that involve the settlement of two linked obligations (for example, securities
or foreign exchange transactions), it should eliminate principal risk by conditioning the final settlement of
one obligation upon the final settlement of the other.

Key consideration 1: An FMI that is an exchange-of-value settlement system should eliminate
principal risk by ensuring that the final settlement of one obligation occurs if and only if the
final settlement of the linked obligation also occurs, regardless of whether the FMI settles on a
gross or net basis and when finality occurs.
The Euroclear system is a Model 1 DVP system: internal and Bridge instructions are settled between
clients on a trade by trade (gross) basis, with finality of the transfer of securities from the seller to the
buyer occurring at the same time as the finality of transfer of funds from the buyer to the seller. For
cross-border instructions, local rules apply.
The system controls the availability of the cash and securities provisions before executing the instructions
(i.e. so-called ‘positioning’). If the cash and/or the securities are not available, the transaction will not be
settled (but will be recycled later on in accordance with the system's rules). If the cash and/or the
securities are available, the instructions will settle and the cash and securities will be transferred
simultaneously.
About 90% of the transactions in the Euroclear System are settled Against Payment (AP).
Free of Payment (FoP) instructions cover transactions to which no cash leg is associated within the
Euroclear System.
Both the contractual10 and technical framework of the Euroclear system ensure that delivery of securities
takes place if, and only if, payment is received. The two legs of a delivery of securities against payment
of cash are processed simultaneously. Both legs are final at the same time.
Please also refer to Principle 8 on Settlement finality.

10 See Operating Procedures Part II - A - Securities Clearance and Settlement

83
EXK50084

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Principle	13:	Client‐default	rules	and	procedures	
An FMI should have effective and clearly defined rules and procedures to manage a client default. These
rules and procedures should be designed to ensure that the FMI can take timely action to contain losses
and liquidity pressures and continue to meet its obligations.

Key consideration 1: An FMI should have default rules and procedures that enable the FMI to
continue to meet its obligations in the event of a client default and that address the
replenishment of resources following a default.
Euroclear Bank has implemented a detailed contractual framework which governs the participation to the
Euroclear System it operates and a.o. sets out:


the events Euroclear Bank may consider as default events



the actions Euroclear Bank may take upon occurrence of default events



the rights and responsibilities of defaulted clients

Euroclear Bank has also implemented an internal risk management framework which enables it to promptly
react to events of defaults, replenish resources smoothly by enforcing collateral securing the borrowings
and ensure the continuity of its operations. This framework is subject to supervision by the National Bank
of Belgium (NBB).

Declaration of default by Euroclear Bank
Section 6 of the General Conditions Governing Extensions of Credit to participants identifies the events of
default under this agreement.
Pursuant to section 3 of the General Conditions Governing Extensions of Credit to participants in the
Euroclear System, each (cash) overdraft is payable immediately upon demand by Euroclear Bank.
Pursuant to section 6 (a) (ii) of the Collateral Agreement Governing Secured Borrowings by participants in
the Euroclear System and section 13 (a) (iv) (A) of the Supplementary Terms and Conditions Governing
the Lending & Borrowing of Securities, Euroclear Bank can also ask to immediately return the outstanding
securities borrowed (‘repayment of securities’).
Before the declaration of default, Euroclear Bank will send a ‘payment notice’ and/or ‘recall for borrowings’
to the counterpart in writing.
As a rule, in case of non-payment within 24 hours (after the issue of the notice or recall), the default is
officially declared by a default notice sent to the counterpart.

84
EXK50085

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Key consideration 2: An FMI should be well prepared to implement its default rules and
procedures, including any appropriate discretionary procedures provided for in its rules.
Euroclear Bank has established a global Business Continuity Plan to prepare Euroclear Bank crisis
management response in case of an operational / financial failure of an external counterpart or Clearstream
Banking Luxembourg, as well as a failure of an agent.
In respect of default of clients, Euroclear Bank follows standardised process for all clients.
The process differs depending on whether or not the defaulted client has a credit line.
In case of a country crisis, an additional analysis is required for assessing the legal entities affected residing
in that country.
The Euroclear Bank stress testing management resolutions are in principle reviewed every two years.
Euroclear Risk Management will report the results of the review, and recommend, if required, amendments,
to the Euroclear Bank Management Committee.
The Euroclear Business Continuity Implementing Procedure is in principle reviewed every two years.
Euroclear Bank continuity plans are reviewed at a minimum on an annual basis, or more frequently if
required.

Key consideration 3: An FMI should publicly disclose key aspects of its default rules and
procedures.
The Euroclear Bank Operating Procedures and Terms & Conditions are publicly available and detail all
aspects that are relevant for clients in case of default.
Identification of a default


Section 2.1. of the Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System (OPs) set out admission
criteria which the clients must meet on an ongoing basis.



Besides, Section 14 of the Terms and Conditions governing use of the Euroclear System (T&C)
contractually define what Euroclear Bank may consider as events of default.



Section 3.8 of the OPs clarifies the rules applicable to defaulted clients.



Euroclear Bank also acts as settlement agent of the Euroclear System it operates and may
grant credit to clients for the purpose of efficient settlement. Credit lines are governed by a
specific contractual documentation, which cross-refers on some aspects to the T&C and OPs.



Pursuant to section 3 of the General Conditions Governing Extensions of Credit to participants
in the Euroclear System, each (cash) overdraft is payable immediately upon demand by
Euroclear Bank.

85
EXK50086

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV


Pursuant to section 6 (a) (ii) of the Collateral Agreement Governing Secured Borrowings by
participants in the Euroclear System’ and section 13 (a) (iv) (A) of the Supplementary Terms
and Conditions Governing the Lending & Borrowing of Securities, Euroclear Bank can also ask
to immediately return the outstanding securities borrowed (‘repayment of securities’).

Declaration of default by Euroclear Bank
Prior to the declaration of default, Euroclear Bank will send a ‘payment notice’ and/or ‘recall for borrowings’
to the client in writing.
By lack of appropriate reaction from the client, Euroclear Bank will declare the default by sending a default
notice and will enforce the collateral securing the borrowings.
As crisis situations will by definition differ, Euroclear Bank aims to maintain sufficient room for maneuver
to adapt to the specific circumstances. In that regard, the default procedure as such (i.e. the practical
details on when and how will Euroclear Bank declare that a client is in default) is not mentioned in the T&C
or the Operating Procedures.
Non defaulted clients
For non-defaulting clients, no specific mechanisms need to be disclosed as Euroclear Bank’s obligations will
be limited mainly to the exchange of information on the default. In case of a failure of Clearstream Banking
Luxembourg, Euroclear Bank may in accordance with its Operating Procedures apply the right-to-debit.

Key consideration 4: An FMI should involve its clients and other stakeholders in the testing and
review of the FMI’s default procedures, including any close-out procedures. Such testing and
review should be conducted at least annually or following material changes to the rules and
procedures to ensure that they are practical and effective.
Euroclear Bank does not test its client-default procedures with its clients because most of the procedures
to be tested are internal procedures as the interactions with defaulted clients are limited to
contacts/communications with the appointed insolvency administrators. These administrators are generally
persons or entities external to the client. They are never known up-front, only appointed at the time of
the occasion, which makes it impossible to test.
Moreover, Euroclear Bank has dealt with several bankruptcy/insolvency cases of clients, which allowed
Euroclear Bank to put in practice its client default procedures. The internal procedures have proven to be
adequate.
On a regular basis, Euroclear Bank does organise business continuity testing based on different scenarios
(a.o. defaults of a large client with multiple roles in the Euroclear System and in Clearstream Banking
Luxembourg.

86
EXK50087

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Principle	14:	Segregation	and	portability	
A CCP should have rules and procedures that enable the segregation and portability of positions of a client’s
customers and the collateral provided to the CCP with respect to those positions.
Not applicable to Euroclear Bank.

87
EXK50088

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Principle	15:	General	business	risk	
An FMI should identify, monitor, and manage its general business risk and hold sufficient liquid net assets
funded by equity to cover potential general business losses so that it can continue operations and services
as a going concern if those losses materialise. Further, liquid net assets should at all times be sufficient to
ensure a recovery or orderly wind-down of critical operations and services.

Key consideration 1: An FMI should have robust management and control systems to identify,
monitor, and manage general business risks, including losses from poor execution of business
strategy, negative cash flows, or unexpected and excessively large operating expenses.
Euroclear defines its general business risks both though a bottom-up process, where all business areas
assesses their risks in a structured and recurring process (RCSA-risk control self-assessments), including
strategic and business risks. These are consolidated for each Euroclear entity. The top-down approach is
done by the management team in strategic and business risk assessments, including horizon scanning and
out-of-the-box views on the CSD business.
The business risks are monitored through group functions and in the local management team. A systematic
and continuous analysis of client preferences and regulatory changes are done in product and client relation
functions as well as in the legal department.
The Product Management and Finance functions conduct a monthly revenue assessment of all revenue
streams. Market intelligence, regulatory changes and external sources of market statistics are used to
evaluate internal revenue outcome and predictions. Forecasts of volumes, value and revenues are officially
re-evaluated at Euroclear group level 3 times per year. The monthly analysis and forecasts are sent to the
CEO, the group PM function and the Executive Committee of each entity of the group.

Key consideration 2: An FMI should hold liquid net assets funded by equity (such as common
stock, disclosed reserves, or other retained earnings) so that it can continue operations and
services as a going concern if it incurs general business losses. The amount of liquid net assets
funded by equity an FMI should hold should be determined by its general business risk profile
and the length of time required to achieve a recovery or orderly wind-down, as appropriate, of
its critical operations and services if such action is taken.
Determining capital and liquidity needs: internal view based on risks faced by each entity.
Euroclear determines how much equity it needs to hold based on the risks faced by each of the Euroclear
entities. This takes all risk types into account, including, but not limited to, business risk.
The core equity required for the Euroclear CSDs and for Euroclear Bank is determined in line with the
Internal Capital Measurement Approach (ICMA). The objective of the Internal Capital Measurement
Approach (ICMA) is to establish high-level principles that can be applied to all entities of the Euroclear
88
EXK50089

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

group, to ensure they have sufficient capital to cover their risks. The approach is consistent across all
entities of the Euroclear group and is an essential component of the group’s Pillar 2 under Basel II.
The internal view on Euroclear Bank’s capital needs is based on an economic capital model that is continuously
kept up-to-date and regularly validated by an independent party. Euroclear Bank is therefore fully confident
that the resulting capital requirements are adequate to support the risks that it faces. The model covers
operational, market and credit risks, as well as business risks. Liquidity risk is addressed through strong
liquidity plans and strategic risk receives constant qualitative attention from the management. Because
Euroclear Bank systematically seeks to minimise risk, the base case figures are small in relation to Euroclear
Bank's actual capital, but the capital also aims at covering the worst stress test amongst all risk types, and
also includes substantial buffers for model risk and capital stability. This conservative approach to capital,
combined with Euroclear's strong risk management and effective controls, has helped Euroclear Bank maintain
its high credit ratings in times of market stress.
Determining capital and liquidity needs to ensure continued operation in case of recovery
The regulatory consensus in the EU is that (I)CSDs should maintain at least six months of operating
expenses in order to enable a recovery or an orderly wind-down (as will be enacted in the CSD Regulation).
At the consolidated level, Euroclear also complies with the regulatory capital requirements under Basel II.
Both Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 are based on an assessment of the risks faced by the entities (see section above).
For some entities, these requirements exceed the amount that would cover six months of operating
expenses.
The time needed to implement recovery measures is expected to vary, depending on the type of measure
to be taken. However, as substantial cost reductions could be pushed through quite rapidly, this would be
expected to give ample time to support the implementation of more lengthy options. Intra-group
recapitalisation may be swift.
Regulatory capital requirements under Pillar 2 of Basel II, which are based on our internal view on the capital
Euroclear Bank may need to cover the risks it faces, substantially exceed six months of operating expenses
(based on 2014 figures an amount of €406 million would be needed).
This amount would take into account the worst case scenario where all activity stops (no settlement fees will
be received from clients, but also no settlement fees to be paid to depositories), while safekeeping and other
fees still need to be paid to depositories. Interest expenses (mainly credit interests paid to clients for their long
cash balances) are not included as operating expenses, as the clients’ long balances generate interest revenue
for Euroclear Bank. In scenarios where this interest revenue would decrease (e.g. reduction of clients’ long
balances), the corresponding cost would also decrease.
End December 2014, Euroclear Bank has €1,438 million core capital (and liquid net assets, as its equity is
invested in liquid assets), which is more than sufficient to cover six months of current operating expenses (and
to cover the time needed to implement the recovery plan, the main solutions of which can be implemented
within six months) to cover general business risk.

89
EXK50090

Exhibit K-5
Core capital *

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
Pillar II capital constraint **

Six month operating expenses **

1,200

406

(end December 2014)
1,438
million euro
* Before any distribution
** Figures based on 2014 requirement approved by the Board in the context of the capital planning exercise

Regarding recovery options, as excess capital located in Euroclear SA/NV is material, it would likely provide
enough capacity to Euroclear SA to support any CSD of the group in a recovery scenario.

Key consideration 3: An FMI should maintain a viable recovery or orderly wind-down plan and
should hold sufficient liquid net assets funded by equity to implement this plan. At a minimum,
an FMI should hold liquid net assets funded by equity equal to at least six months of current
operating expenses. These assets are in addition to resources held to cover client defaults or
other risks covered under the financial resources principles. However, equity held under
international risk-based capital standards can be included where relevant and appropriate to
avoid duplicate capital requirements
Recovery or orderly wind-down plan
See our replies under Principle 3, Key consideration 4.
The recovery plan focuses on recovery and survival of Euroclear entities as going concerns as going
concerns . In addition, it identifies and describes recovery options that may imply selling business lines or
entities (in the group recovery plan). Such transfers would support the orderly wind-down of any (I)CSD.
Since a rapid recovery is essential for maintaining the market’s confidence in Euroclear Bank, Euroclear
Bank focuses in its recovery plan on solutions that can be implemented reasonably fast. Solutions that are
part of Euroclear Bank’s ‘day-to-day’ risk management can be decided on and implemented very rapidly:
insurance for operational risk, liquidating clients’ collateral, and activating contingency liquidity sources.
The recapitalisation of Euroclear Bank via the group’s excess capital (located in Euroclear SA/NV, the local
CSDs of the group and its other holding companies) or conversion of a subordinated debt instrument can
be decided on and implemented quite quickly To facilitate a rapid recapitalisation, Euroclear Bank and all
group entities above maintain an adequate level of authorised capital that the Board may issue without the
need for shareholder approval. Recapitalisation via (new) external shareholders or via a sale of some of
the Group’s assets may also be decided on quite quickly, but their implementation may take longer.
Maintain at least 6 months of operating expenses
See our replies under Principle 15, Key consideration 2. Each Euroclear entity maintains a core capital that
exceeds six months of operating expense.

90
EXK50091

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Specific amounts of liquid assets are set aside to cover credit, operational, market and business risk
respectively. Although the liquid assets designated to cover business risks are not physically separated
from liquid assets to cover other risks, the amount set aside for business risk is conceptually separated
from the capital and liquid assets needed for compliance with Principle 4 on credit risk.
Euroclear Bank’s economic capital for business risk is calculated in accordance with the Basel II - Pillar II
framework. In addition, economic capital is held to cover credit risk (using an adjusted FIRBA model),
operational risk (using an adjusted AMA model), market risk, off-shoring risk, pension risk, model risk and
stress testing. Due to the different approach to define business risk under CPMI-IOSCO and Basel II, it is
possible that parts of other economic capital, than the one reserved for business risk, could be used to
cover the general business risk (e.g. model risk and stress testing).

Key consideration 4: Assets held to cover general business risk should be of high quality and
sufficiently liquid in order to allow the FMI to meet its current and projected operating expenses
under a range of scenarios, including in adverse market conditions.
Euroclear Bank’s capital is invested in debt securities (EU government or supranationals) with a rating of
at least AA+, or held in cash at the central bank.
In case of extreme market conditions where Euroclear Bank would not be able to convert AAA or AA+ rated
EU bonds it holds into cash, it can use them as collateral for obtaining liquidity via the NBB as these bonds
are ESCB-eligible.
The quality and liquidity of the assets in which Euroclear Bank’s capital is invested is assessed monthly by
Euroclear Bank and the NBB. In case of deteriorating quality (i.e. credit rating downgrades) of some of the
bonds held, the investment portfolio is adjusted (to ensure that all bonds in the portfolio are rated AA+ or
above).

Key consideration 5: An FMI should maintain a viable plan for raising additional equity should
its equity fall close to or below the amount needed. This plan should be approved by the board
of directors and updated regularly.
The recovery plans for the Euroclear entities include options describing how capital could be sought from
other group entities or from external shareholders. See our replies under Principle 3, key consideration 4
on recovery planning in the group.
As a mother company, Euroclear SA/NV is particularly well placed to inject capital in its subsidiaries in case
of need. It is the group’s policy to maintain excess capital in Euroclear SA. Recapitalisation via the group’s
excess capital can be decided on and implemented quite quickly.

91
EXK50092

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

If Euroclear Bank’s capital falls below its minimum requirements, the subordinated debt instrument will be
converted into profit sharing certificates and will increase Euroclear Bank’s core tier 1 capital by about €98
million.
If these measures are insufficient, Euroclear Bank may decide to raise new capital from existing or new
shareholders.

92
EXK50093

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Principle	16:	Custody	and	investment	risks	
An FMI should safeguard its own and its clients’ assets and minimise the risk of loss on and delay in access
to these assets. An FMI’s investments should be in instruments with minimal credit, market, and liquidity
risks.

Key consideration1: An FMI should hold its own and its clients’ assets at supervised and
regulated entities that have robust accounting practices, safekeeping procedures, and internal
controls that fully protect these assets.
Euroclear Bank holds its assets and its clients’ assets at supervised and regulated entities (in practice big
international or local banks or CSDs) that are subject to and/or on which it contractually imposes minimum
requirements for accounting practices and safekeeping procedures.
Upon selection of a new agent, Euroclear Bank conducts a due diligence review of the candidates. The
candidates must meet business and quality requirements, accept the terms of the standard Euroclear Bank
agreement, comply with data protection and confidentiality requirements, be financially sound, manage
their operational risk and meet business continuity requirements. Furthermore, being associated with the
candidate should not cause reputational damage for Euroclear Bank.
Euroclear Bank has contractually the right to inspect and audit records at the depository and to perform
vault inspections for agents in charge of safekeeping physical securities.

Key consideration 2: An FMI should have prompt access to its assets and the assets provided by
clients, when required.
Euroclear Bank ensures via a legal opinion that the ownership rights for its clients’ and its own assets are
adequately protected. Euroclear Bank only invests in Eurozone securities, eliminating delays with regard to
access to its securities due to time zone or jurisdiction problems.

Key consideration 3: An FMI should evaluate and understand its exposures to its custodian
banks, taking into account the full scope of its relationships with each.
Euroclear Bank has developed a tool allowing to have a view on the exposures it has on its custodian banks
for all the roles they may have in the system, such as treasury counterparty (for redeposit of cash
balances), client (credit line for settlement activity, securities borrowing), issuer of securities (used as
collateral by other clients, or securities that are being redeemed/pay interest) and lead manager in the
new issues process.

93
EXK50094

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The total stock of securities that Euroclear Bank holds is diversified over several Common Depositories (for
Eurobonds) and more than 40 local Depositories. Sometimes, Euroclear Bank has even several Depositories
for one market.

Key consideration 4: An FMI’s investment strategy should be consistent with its overall riskmanagement strategy and fully disclosed to its clients, and investments should be secured by,
or be claims on, high-quality obligors. These investments should allow for quick liquidation with
little, if any, adverse price effect.
Euroclear Bank’s (prudent) investment strategy is consistent with its overall risk-management policy of
keeping a low risk profile.
Key elements of its investment strategy are disclosed in its Pillar 3 disclosure report (in the sections related
to market, credit and liquidity risk).
Euroclear Bank only invests in EUR-denominated bonds of EU governments, supranationals or the EFSF
with at least a AA- rating. As these securities are ESCB-eligible as collateral, they can be liquidated via the
central bank quickly and without any price effect.
In addition, deep secondary markets exist for such securities, which allow their sale without any significant
price effect.

94
EXK50095

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Principle	17:	Operational	risk	
An FMI should identify the plausible sources of operational risk, both internal and external, and mitigate
their impact through the use of appropriate systems, policies, procedures, and controls. Systems should
be designed to ensure a high degree of security and operational reliability and should have adequate,
scalable capacity. Business continuity management should aim for timely recovery of operations and
fulfillment of the FMI’s obligations, including in the event of a wide-scale or major disruption.

Key consideration 1: An FMI should establish a robust operational risk-management framework
with appropriate systems, policies, procedures, and controls to identify, monitor, and manage
operational risks.
Identification of operational risk
The Board of the parent company Euroclear SA/NV has defined the Operational Risk Board Policy which is
also applicable to all entities. The primary goal of this policy is to define an operational risk management
framework that ensures that Euroclear takes the necessary steps in its day-to-day operations to effectively
identify, assess, monitor and manage operational risk at all levels. The risk management framework
describes:


how operational risks are identified



who bears responsibility for managing these risks



how they can be mitigated



all relevant operational risk processes



the role of people within the processes



the information needed to make sound management decisions

Euroclear adopts the Basel II definition of operational risk which views operational risk as an umbrella risk,
encompassing:


Processing risk. The risk of loss (financial or reputation) resulting from inadequate or failed
internal processes, people, system or external events



Accounting risk. The risk of loss (financial or reputational) arising from the failure to
produce timely and accurate management reporting and financial statements



Ethical conduct, legal and compliance risks

The Operational Risk Board Policy defines policy goals for:


corporate and information security



services by third parties



media communications



accounting risks



customer affiliation and monitoring



Treasury counterparties
95
EXK50096

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Policy goals are then translated by senior management into management resolutions which are further
detailed in implementation procedures.
The annually updated Business continuity plan assesses threats and risks associated with an interruption
to business processes, including those stemming from external sources. Each business area has identified
its recovery requirements (staff, communications and records, equipment, procedures) and produced or
procedures which fit with the overall business continuity plan. Single points of failure for critical services
are assessed and are eliminated as far as possible in the development projects requirements process, and
for live services in recurring risk control self-assessments.
Management of operational risk
Operational Risk Management Framework implements a risk management cycle that encompasses:


risk identification, assessment and measurement



risk response: mitigate, accept, transfer/insure or avoid



risk reporting and escalation



risk monitoring

Risk identification, assessment and measurement by the business areas are performed by:


systematic risk assessments of new products or services



monitoring performance and risk indicators of on-going business

Examples of such indicators are:


settlement volumes



settlement failures



number of corporate actions



revenue monitoring



service availability



number of operational incidents



number of intra-day cash payments



number of Euroclear Bank/Clearstream Banking Luxembourg realignments



number of pending realignment request by Euroclear Bank

Business areas use self-assessment processes to identify potential shortcomings and solutions.
For the management of these risks, the Board yearly defines the ‘Risk tolerance level’ consistent with the
available capital and the management the level of risk that can be accepted (risk appetite) with the
objective to keep the risk profile low and stable.
Policies, processes and controls
The business areas need to develop solutions to mitigate risks effectively, with the Risk Management
function providing an advisory role for material risks. Risk mitigating action plans and their target dates

96
EXK50097

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

are logged. The successful implementation of these mitigating actions is monitored by Risk Management
and is reported regularly to management.
The timeliness of risk resolution is counted as a performance indicator in the Euroclear Group’s Balanced
Scorecard (e.g. addressing the key control and risk issues identified during the annual review of the Internal
Control System (ICS)).
Risk monitoring tools are in place and are continuously evolving to follow up risks. Where possible, Line
Management puts in place tactical measures to avoid the risks materialising in the advent of a more
structural solution. Risks can be accepted when the costs required to mitigate the risk outweigh the
benefits. Depending upon the impact of the risk, the decision to accept a risk is made by the business
owners or by the Euroclear Bank management. There is a process to re-evaluate all accepted risks annually.
The risk monitoring is performed using a Risk Register, which is an inventory of the risk types that Euroclear
faces in pursuing its corporate objectives. The allocation of responsibilities within Euroclear’s three lines of
defense model is:


first line of defense:
identify the risks that may prevent reaching their objectives, define and operate controls
to mitigate the risks and document and demonstrate the control environment. They involve
control functions to support them, for instance:
-

Compliance: monitors changes in laws and regulations and advises as to what controls
are required.

-

Risk Management: makes available policies, advices during the implementation of the
risk management/control framework



second line of defense:
- Risk Management defines the control environment framework in line with regulations and
internal policies, it monitors the risk and internal control environment against changing
internal and external environment and reports, challenges or escalates to management
risks or control defects. Risk Management supports the business to implement remedial
actions.
- Compliance: monitors, tests and reports to management on controls relating to laws and
regulations and advises on remedial actions. Other support functions like Finance or HR
monitor specific controls and escalate to management in case of control defects



third line of defense:
Internal Audit independently reviews and tests the controls and reports to management
about the adequacy and effectiveness of the control environment.

97
EXK50098

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Euroclear group aims to align its risk management practices as closely as possible with major
recommendations from various regulatory and industry bodies, such as:


CPMI-IOSCO



G30



European Securities and Markets Authority



European Banking Authority



European Central Bank



Basel Committee for Banking Supervision



Local regulators

Its risk management framework is defined in an Operational Risk Board policy applicable for the group
Euroclear. It has been developed and is maintained in accordance with best practices for risk management
and regulatory guidelines, including:


COSO11



ISO 31000:2009 principles and generic guidelines on risk management



ISO 27001:2013 guidelines for Information Security



Local regulatory requirements



Standards and guidelines issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
and the European Banking Authority

The Human Resources (HR) function has established formal hiring policies providing appropriate assurance
that new employees are qualified for their job responsibilities. The hiring process includes the
communication to HR of an extract for the applicant of national register recording past crimes.
All new employees complete a standard introduction programme. In addition, there are informal
departmental seminars, supervised on-the-job trainings, and formal in-house training courses. Certain
positions require specialised training provided by third parties. Managers are responsible for encouraging
staff to pursue additional training and development to increase expertise within their functional
responsibilities.
All personnel agree personal written objectives for the year with their manager, including discussions on
training needs and career plans. Appraisal meetings are held to follow-up on objectives and performance
during the year. A succession plan is established and covers all managerial positions.
HR maintains a talent management process, where existing staff profiles are tested against upcoming
vacancies. It also maintains records of joiners, movers, leavers and updates the management regularly
about status and trends. Staff rotation and transfers between departments and even between the entities
of the Euroclear group is encouraged. Regarding fraud prevention, Euroclear group has implemented in all
its entities policies about:


Code of conduct



Ethical Conduct

11 An internal control framework by The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Tradeway Commission

98
EXK50099

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV


Accepting gifts



Whistle blowing

Additionally, in areas where values are handled (e.g. payments), there are numerous operational controls
implemented in order to minimise the risk of fraud, e.g. STP-processing, four-eyes principles, reconciliation
checks, etc.
Fraud reporting is essential to ensure the consistent treatment of information regarding fraud, the proper
investigation by an independent and experienced team, and the protection of Euroclear group's interests
and reputation. All staff have been informed on how to report any evidence or suspicion of fraudulent
activities.
All staff must complete on a regular basis a compliance test including questions related to fraud prevention.
When designing (new) products and services, all risk types including operational risk are considered via
formal risk assessments before the launch. The implementation of the controls or measures that are
required subsequent to such risk assessments is monitored.
Changes to operational applications and their supporting systems and networks are planned, developed
and implemented in a controlled manner.
The system development methodology takes into account the resilience of the infrastructure and
applications which need to be respected for all critical infrastructure components and applications.
Compliance to these principles and guidelines is evaluated for every project or change as part of the
production acceptance criteria.
Application systems are subject to testing and review in several application environments (integration
testing, volume testing, acceptance testing) before they are installed in production. The scope of such
testing is defined and the results are reviewed by both technical and business experts.
Once testing is complete, the change is made available for release into the production environment. There
is a formal sign off process involving the business management, IT and technical experts to approve change
releases. Many key things are checked during the sign off, like:


the timing of the change



test results



customer and user readiness



risk of other interfering activities or conflicts



particular risk areas



the availability of support expertise during and after the launch



preparedness to back-out the change in case of problems, etc.

Euroclear applies a ‘release approach’, limiting the number of releases. Therefore, a release may contain
several application changes. Only a limited number of authorised individuals, independent from the
development team, are able to implement such approved changes, thereby leaving an audit trail of transfers
into production.
99
EXK50100

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Key consideration 2: An FMI’s board of directors should clearly define the roles and
responsibilities for addressing operational risk and should endorse the FMI’s operational riskmanagement framework. Systems, operational policies, procedures, and controls should be
reviewed, audited, and tested periodically and after significant changes.
Roles, responsibilities and framework
Since Risk Management (including operational risk management) and IT are centralised in the holding
company Euroclear SA, both Euroclear SA and Euroclear Bank have certain responsibilities for operational
risk.
Euroclear Bank level
The Euroclear Bank Board is the ultimate decision making body of Euroclear Bank.
In order to perform its responsibilities more efficiently, the Board has established a number of committees
for which the Board has defined Terms of Reference including the roles and responsibility of each
committee.
The Risk Committee (RC) is an advisory committee which helps the Board fulfill the following
responsibilities:


risk management governance structure



risk tolerance, appetite and strategy



management of key risks as well as the process for monitoring and mitigating such risks

The RC receives input from the risk management function, and at least once a year verifies whether this
function is working effectively.
Euroclear Bank Management Committee is responsible for:


ensuring that line managers take their responsibility for managing risks and control
functions within the organisation’s business operations as the ‘first line of defense’



ensuring that sufficient resources are allocated to the risk management, finance and
compliance functions, who act as the ‘second line of defense’ and who also provides the
frameworks for the management of risks, e.g. policies



ensuring compliance with policy documents, as well as with local laws and regulations



reporting to the Board on risk matters and control gaps and about significant actions taken
to mitigate detected gaps without delay

Euroclear Bank Management Committee is assisted by local risk and operating committees to assist in the
performance of its duty.

100
EXK50101

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Euroclear group level
The Euroclear SA Board has several committees: among them an Audit Committee, a Risk Committee and
a Management Committee with similar responsibilities (for Euroclear SA) as described above.
A Group Risk Committee (where all (I)CSDs of the group are represented) has been set up by Euroclear
SA Management Committee to assist in assessing group-related risks.
The Group Admission Committee – Euroclear Bank, together with the ESES CSDs- participates in this
advisory cross-entity committee to:


review the new client profiles and their impact on the overall business portfolio



recommend on new admission requests to the relevant management committee



propose possible changes to the clients’ admission strategy

Euroclear SA has also a Risk Management division, responsible for the following generic types of activity
for each of the risks it covers:


Risk policy setting; i.e. definition of the corporate rules of conduct relating to those risk
areas where a violation of the corporate policy may lead to (i) severe losses affecting the
creditworthiness of each company of the Group; (ii) permanent damage to its reputation
or (iii) unacceptable levels of systemic risk



Risk assessment & measurement; i.e. tools and methods for risk definition and
measurement; identification and assessment of the various residual risk exposures, their
likelihood of occurrence and their impact



Risk advice; i.e. expert impartial risk advice



Risk monitoring; i.e. follow-up of exceptions, action plans, new products and changes in
risk exposure; oversight over the various risk areas and reporting to the appropriate levels
(local and group)



If needed, escalation of material risk issues to the various Management Committees
and Board Risk Committees or local Audit and Risk Committees



Risk transfer; i.e. identification and tracking of situations where large risk exposures can
be transferred to a third party via insurance or a hedge at the corporate level (e.g. macrohedges to cover interest rate or FX risks). In cases where such a transfer is not possible,
business continuity planning is considered.

Risk Management acts independently of other functions in the group and reports directly to the group CEO.
It is headed by the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) who is also a member of the Management Committee of
Euroclear Bank and a permanent invitee to the Management Committee of Euroclear SA/NV. Corporate risk
managers have been assigned to address the risks of each Euroclear entity and are supported by the Risk
Management Division of the group, who develops for instance the risk management framework, capital
modeling and data support. A team is also dedicated to banking risks.
101
EXK50102

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The Risk Management division ensures that risks are known and understood by management. They escalate
material risk issues to the appropriate level to ensure that management, the Board, the Audit or Risk
Committee are aware of:


the emergence of new risks



the evolution of identified risks



any cases where the mitigating actions for an existing risk may be:
-

insufficient in scope; or

-

put in place later than originally intended.

The Risk Management division regularly reports on operational risk, tailoring its reports to the audience
(group or local audit and risk committees and management committees).
The parent company's Euroclear SA/NV Board has approved the Operational Risk Board Policy which defines
the operational risk management framework. The effective implementation and monitoring of this board
policy is delegated to the Euroclear SA/NV Management Committee. It reviews the effectiveness and
efficiency of the Operational Risk management framework, including through effective and comprehensive
independent audit review, and ensures that it evolves to meet strategic needs and compliance
requirements.
When Senior Management reviews this document they are considering whether any material information,
e.g. regarding major changes in risk management framework, necessitate changes to this document. Senior
Management will report on its findings to the Board and, where appropriate, recommend amendments to
this document to the Board.
Further reviews may be undertaken in the event of significant changes in the strategic, operating, legal or
compliance environment of Euroclear.
The Boards of local entities endorse this policy, as well as any other more local policies in the risk
management area.

102
EXK50103

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Review, audit and testing
Control objectives re assessed continuously as part of the bottom-up business control and monitoring
processes, reported and discussed in management performance meetings at different levels in the
organisation (from lean whiteboards monitoring to reviews by the operational risk committees and
management committees of the group).
They are also collectively reviewed top-down through the regular Positive Assurance Report (PAR) selfassessments. In order to prevent that these regular self-assessments become routine exercises, Risk
Management ensures that, at least once a year, they are performed with the right mix of people around
the table (different layers in the organisation, representatives of quality assurance teams, Risk
Management, and any other relevant party) and ensuring systematic availability of comprehensive material
(the PAR, near misses, losses, incidents, control maps, accepted risks, risk management reports, internal
audit reports, ISAE 3402, etc.).
The PAR of the different entities and divisions of the company demonstrate that controls are adequate and
effective or not. A summarised view by division/entity, the Assurance Map and the most important control
weaknesses and the related action plans are pulled together for the ICS report. Risk Management stores
the PARs twice a year and coordinates the production of the reports.
The mission of the Internal Audit division (IA) is set out in the Internal Audit Charter approved by the
Senior Management and the ARC/Board, as providing reasonable assurance, in an independent and
objective way, on the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal controls to support the
Board and senior management of each Euroclear entity in reaching their objectives. IA has set up a
comprehensive audit universe including all processes carried out by the group, whether directly or
outsourced.
Each quarter, a rolling-forward Plan for the next six quarters and three years are produced on the basis of
Risk and Control Assessments (RCA) which determine the need, scope and depth for audits (‘risk-based
audits’). In any case, a full scope audit is performed on each line of the Audit Universe at least every three
years (‘rotational audits’). The quarterly plan, with both risk-based and rotational audits, is presented and
approved by the Management Committee and by the Audit Committee.
The operational risk management framework is subject to both internal audits, within the framework
described above, and to external audits, by the company’s external auditor.
Euroclear Bank yearly publishes an ISAE 3402 Report. This report provides substantive information on
controls and operating procedures. Euroclear Bank has invited an independent audit firm to confirm the
operating effectiveness of its controls. The verification of these controls demonstrates that effective risk
management is practiced in the daily provision of new and existing operational services.

103
EXK50104

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Key consideration 3: An FMI should have clearly defined operational reliability objectives and
should have policies in place that are designed to achieve those objectives.
The Euroclear group sets out the high level objectives for the organisation, including those related to
operational reliability. All day-to-day activities and projects have to be related and contribute to the
achievement of these high-level objectives, both on a group and on a local level. Operational reliability
objectives are defined in this context, at different levels.
The following are two examples of high-level qualitative objectives, defined in the risk register:


Euroclear delivers operational services that meet clients' expectations and maintains robust
service resilience



Euroclear operates its systems to achieve defined service levels appropriate to the business
application.

Qualitative objectives are e.g. stated in management resolutions and in implementing procedures, which
are governing documents on a more detailed level, established within the policy framework and published
on the intranet for employees. Further quality statements can be found in the sets of control objectives
used and within the departments’ own internal process and standards documentation.
Quantitative reliability objectives are primarily defined by the business owners and are documented in
SLAs.
An example is that the maximum unavailability of a core service during business hours should not exceed
two hours.
Euroclear's controls maturity model and self-assessment guidelines are used to assess the sustainability of
the control environment. Control activities are evaluated against a spectrum of maturity attributes. It
provides Euroclear with a snapshot of where control activities stand at a particular point in time relative to
a standard rating scale. The controls maturity model helps management assess the effectiveness of
controls, provides a measure of sustainability over time and enables Euroclear to assess progress in
enhancing the ICS over time.
Internal assessments, client interactions and surveys, as well as the monitored track record of operational
reliability and follow-up of all incidents, are also used by the management to assess whether the achieved
levels are matching the set requirements.
In working towards its corporate objectives Euroclear faces a range of risks. The Risk Register categorises
and defines these risk types and identifies where they exist within the group.
The Risk Register is supported by high-level control objectives, established by the Management Committee
to mitigate the risks in the Risk Register. These high-level control objectives encompass all high-level
processes that need to be realised effectively to allow individual business areas to achieve their business
objectives. Control objectives provide guidance to the organisation on the expected level of internal control
in each entity and division of the group. Each of the delivered services has a senior business management
owner who is overall accountable for ensuring that risks are appropriately mitigated.
104
EXK50105

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The high-level control objectives are supported by level-two control objectives, agreed with business
management. They explain in more detail how business areas can achieve their high-level control
objectives.
The level-two control objectives are supported by the implemented controls and control processes. The
control objectives are the foundation of the Euroclear group internal controls system.
Controls have been built into business processes and their effectiveness is challenged continuously through
day-to-day management actions, self-assessments of business risks and controls - including a review of
risk and control issues by management - and independent reviews carried out by Internal Audit.
The majority of operational risk processes are frequent and recurring activities. These processes are
updated on a regular basis.
The control objectives are the basis of the annual risk and control self-assessments. These qualitative selfassessments and the complementary quantitative self-assessments are key components of the risk
management framework.

Key consideration 4: An FMI should ensure that it has scalable capacity adequate to handle
increasing stress volumes and to achieve its service-level objectives.
Capacity Management is in place to ensure that IT capacity meets current and future business
requirements. There is a continual monitoring of defined infrastructure services (daily review and
dashboards) to identify potential issues ahead of time. Actions are taken to increase capacity (or re-balance
workload) as thresholds are approaching.
Capacity monitoring and management are part of the applied ITIL framework and are included in the riskbased internal audit universe.
Capacity management is in place within the project lifecycle to define capacity requirements for new
infrastructures and support performance testing within projects.

Key consideration 5: An FMI should have comprehensive physical and information security
policies that address all potential vulnerabilities and threats.
Physical security
The Euroclear group-wide Operational Risk Board Policy comprises policy goals for corporate and
information security. Hence, identifying, monitoring, assessing, and managing the full range of physical
vulnerabilities and threats on an on-going basis is part of the operational risk management framework.
More detailed procedures have been defined at entity level to take into account the local specificities. The
objective is to prevent unauthorised physical access, damage and interference to business premises and
105
EXK50106

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

information and to prevent loss, damage, theft or harm to assets (including personnel) and interruption to
Euroclear’s activities. Critical or sensitive business information processing facilities should be housed in
secure areas, protected by a defined security perimeter, with appropriate security barriers and entry
controls. They should be physically protected from unauthorised access, damage and interference.
The physical security takes into account general best practices, both as defined by the parent group and
as recommended by international standards like ISO 27000 and by local authorities, recommendations and
legislation. Euroclear is also complying with insurance company recommendations.
When compliance with any security standard outlined in the Physical Security Implementing Procedure is
not achieved, a formal risk assessment is to be made and an exception is reported either for mitigation or
for acceptance by senior management.
Change-management and project-management policies and processes require that physical security related
risks are identified, assessed and mitigated in compliance with the physical security implementing
procedures.
Information security
Consistent with Basel II, information security risks are a component of operational risk.
Hence the Euroclear group-wide Operational Risk Board Policy is also applicable for identifying, monitoring,
assessing, and managing the full range of information security vulnerabilities and threats on an on-going
basis. Information security is defined within this policy as the protection of critical assets, by preserving
their:


Confidentiality: Ensuring that information is accessible only to those authorised to have
access and is not misused



Integrity: Safeguarding the accuracy and completeness of information



Availability: Ensuring that authorised users have access to information when they need it



Compliance: Ensuring that relevant legal and regulatory requirements in relation to the
protection of information are adhered to

Under the group policy mentioned above, an Information Security Management System has also been
implemented. This Management Resolution:


describes how information security (IS) within the Euroclear group and locally is organised,
managed, implemented and monitored





outlines the roles and responsibilities for information security
o

group's Chief Security Officer

o

Domain Security Managers / responsible (entity level)

o

Data Protection Co-ordination Officer and Data Protection Officers

o

IT Security Operations / IT Security Architecture

o

Group Risk Committee / Local security and operating committees

translates the Board’s intent, as described in the Operational Risk Board Policy, into more
detailed IS control principles and measures in order to protect Euroclear's and clients’
106
EXK50107

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
critical assets. Information security is addressed through the implementation of controls in
four domains:
o

Physical and environmental security

o

Personnel security

o

Logical security

o

Business continuity management

The Chief Security Officer heads a Group Business Resilience and Information Security team in the Risk
Management division. The Chief Security Officer is responsible for developing and maintaining the policies,
standards, processes and procedures that together form the ISMS.
Through this process, the Chief Security Officer defines the standards to which the Information Technology
Security Management department, part of the Corporate Technology division, operates with regard to
information security. This department is responsible, with the help of the Technical Domain Owners and
System Engineers, to design and define an adequate and effective IT security environment, consisting of
technical architecture, standards, tools, processes and services. The daily operational control of these
security measures is also under the responsibility of the Information Technology Security Management
department.
The Management Committee of each group entity retains responsibility for monitoring and overseeing
policies, issues and exceptions that are relevant to for the entity and report any relevant issues to the
Business Resilience and Information Security team.
The formal policies and standard procedures governing Information security are based on internationallyrecognised control standards, such as the ISO/IEC 27000:2005 series, BS25999-2:2006, ISO IEC 31000,
COBiT and ITIL.
Additionally, where personal or sensitive personal data is concerned, Euroclear is guided by the EU Directive
and relevant national legislation.
Euroclear’s project management framework mandates risk assessments to be done before implementation
starts and before delivery to production. At these check points, information security requirements and
residual risks are assessed and appropriate mitigation actions are initiated, if needed.
All changes to the production environment (hardware, software and network devices) need to be formally
approved before implementation. Changes to the production environment are only made subject to a
standardised process, including specific controls to minimise the risk of errors or disruptions:


Changes required to hardware, network devices and software are recorded electronically
by raising a change request form and need to be approved by authorised staff



A test approach is defined and approved, determining the level of testing appropriate to
the change or project



The production launch process is controlled by a specifically-designated committee (Change
Advisory Board) that reviews changes and verifies that an impact analysis was conducted
and that all required approvals are present. Formal production acceptance criteria have
been established to support the impact analysis by the different domain experts
107
EXK50108

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
represented in the committee; Documentation evidence and approvals are recorded in the
change management system


A verification is done to ensure that earlier identified needs relating to required user
training, changes in operational procedures and other support considerations have been
addressed adequately



A group independent from the development team performs the transfer of source code into
the production environment using automated tools that are only available to authorised
individuals



The tools provide a complete audit trail of all transfers into production

Emergency changes, required in case of system blockage or non-availability, are following strict procedures
and authorisation. Changes performed during emergency are reviewed by the domain experts to make sure
they are properly documented and can be kept as such.
Internet facing applications are code-reviewed from security and robustness point of view by external
expertise before launch. Vulnerability assessment and penetration tests are conducted on a regular basis
with the support of specialised providers.

Key consideration 6: An FMI should have a business continuity plan that addresses events
posing a significant risk of disrupting operations, including events that could cause a wide-scale
or major disruption. The plan should incorporate the use of a secondary site and should be
designed to ensure that critical information technology (IT) systems can resume operations
within two hours following disruptive events. The plan should be designed to enable the FMI to
complete settlement by the end of the day of the disruption, even in case of extreme
circumstances. The FMI should regularly test these arrangements.
Objectives of business continuity plan
A formal business continuity framework has been defined that describes roles and responsibilities, and the
risk-based approach adopted. It also includes objectives supporting the business targets for the timely
resumption of critical operations. The Risk Management division is responsible for the coordination of the
Business Continuity plan12 (BCP) across the group.
The Business Impact Analysis (BIA) is the foundation of Euroclear’s BCM process.
A formal BIA is used to identify the critical activities and their recovery time objectives for each of the
business processes. During the BIA threats and risks associated with business process' interruptions are
identified and assessed by determining the effect of loss, interruption or disruption to business on the
function of each department and thus on the organisation as a whole. The analysis considers both the short
and long-term effects of an incident, and identifies dependencies on people, information, technology and

12 The ES BCP is a separate physical folder / electronic document collection, available on demand only

108
EXK50109

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

facilities. The output of the BIA is used to form the Business Continuity strategy and plans, in accordance
with the Operational Risk Board Policy.
Business continuity plans have been developed to cover a number of defined scenarios, including the loss
of an office, loss of staff and IT disaster recovery incident. They contain the following elements:


guidelines on how to use the plan



the process to alert and activate the crises management team



responses and recovery procedures meant to return the business to normal operations
following an incident or disaster



procedures to continue to maintain critical activities following the widespread loss of staff



communication contact list with stakeholders, employees, key clients, critical suppliers,
stockholders and management



critical contact information on continuity teams, affected staff, clients, suppliers, public
authorities and media

The local senior management committee advises on and approves the business continuity objectives and
plans.
Design of business continuity plan
Euroclear has three data centres:
- Two nearby data centres (DC1 and DC2) provide real-time synchronised data mirroring and act
as the primary and secondary data centre
- A third data centre (DC3), located hundreds of kilometers away from the two synchronised sites
and receives asynchronously replicated data. It allows recovery in a few hours in the event of a
regional disaster affecting both other data centres. Euroclear SA/NV, Euroclear Bank, ESES CSDs,
Euroclear Sweden and Euroclear UK and Ireland have currently access to DC3.

A local disaster recovery is declared following any disaster that affects one data centre. In such
circumstances, for high criticality applications, the recovery time objective is two hours and the recovery
point objective is to have zero data loss.
109
EXK50110

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

A Regional Disaster Recover is declared following a failure at both primary and secondary data centres. In
such circumstances, for high criticality applications, the Recovery Time Objective is four hours and the
recovery point objective is to have data loss of less than one minute (dependent on system volumes at
time of failure, and excludes rolling disaster).
The system development methodology includes principles and guidelines with regard to resilience of the
infrastructure and applications which need to be respected for all critical infrastructure components and
applications. Compliance to these principles and guidelines is evaluated for every project or change as part
of the production acceptance criteria. The core processing systems and networks are designed to provide
resilience through the use of mechanisms including mirroring (synchronous) of production data, the use of
fault tolerant computers or resolving single points of failure. The provision of the communication lines is
split across a number of telecommunications suppliers thereby providing additional protection against single
point of failure.
The objectives of the Business Continuity Management (BCM) implementing procedure are to:


outline the BCM system which Euroclear operates



ensure that:
o

Euroclear is prepared to respond to impacts resulting from a disruption to service

o

all Employees understand their roles and responsibilities when responding to
disruptions

o

BCM is firmly embedded into Euroclear’s business culture

Procedures and checklists are maintained and made available in various ways to enable Duty Managers
and Senior Management (executives and department heads) to effective management and control of the
services at all times, also in case of emergency.
‘Battle boxes’ (Go bags) are also securely stored at external locations to ensure that the Business Continuity
Plan and related procedures are available in case of a potential disaster.
Standard introductory training for new Euroclear staff explicitly covers business continuity in general and
personal responsibilities. BCP awareness updates, exercises and training are provided on a regular basis to
all Euroclear group staff, using different communication channels and tools.
The core processing systems synchronously mirror production data between the two main data centres.
Hence, the status of all transactions is known even in case of a disruption affecting one data centre.
The core processing systems also asynchronously mirror production data between the active data centre
and a third data centre. In the extreme case that both primary and secondary data centres would fail, a
data loss of less than one minute (dependent on system volumes at time of failure, and excludes rolling
disaster) could occur. This is a very low probability but high impact scenario.
Data Loss Response plans have been developed by operations specialists to minimise the impact of data
loss whilst aiming to resume computerized operations in a time period which does not cause unnecessary
strain on market stability. In extreme cases, given the imperative of maintaining market stability, it may
110
EXK50111

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

not be possible to recover 100% of all transactions which were applied to the production system. Therefore,
management will monitor reconciliation activities and will resume operations as circumstances dictate.
The Data Loss recovery principles are


Records of transactions held by National Central Banks (NCBs), Central Securities
Depositories (CSD) occurring during the suspected period of data loss will be considered
by Euroclear to be the ‘master’ source



At all times Euroclear is the ‘master’ source for clients, this may result in previously
executed transactions requiring re-execution by clients following recovery



Clients will be made aware of their obligation to evaluate the status of trades throughout
and following recovery

Crisis management
In order to ensure a systematic and coordinated response to unexpected events, Euroclear established a
three-tiered Bronze-Silver-Gold crisis management structure. These three levels deal with operationaltactical-strategic issues respectively.
Communication to internal and external parties during and after an incident forms an essential part of the
incident response. The Crisis Management teams are required to assess the need for communication and
if so, to communicate to clients, clients facing staff, other staff, and, from Silver on, also to regulators and
in case of Gold to the press.
Client communication is to be initiated as soon as possible, with a threshold set at 30 minutes after the
calling of the Bronze meeting. The Commercial Crisis Management guide also gives guidelines on the
message contents. The contents should cover the reason and impact of the problem, contact details,
possible mitigating actions by the ICSD (such as extension of input deadlines, settlement windows open
longer) and the planned timing of the next update until resolution.
Secondary site
Euroclear has implemented a ‘dual office’ and/or back up site strategy for staff, with geographicallydispersed business operation sites to limit the risk that a single event will impact a main site and its back
up. Business resumption is tested on a regular basis to make sure that in case one site is unavailable, all
critical activities can be operated from another site.
Euroclear operates two main data centres fully equipped to provide core critical production services. The
sites are linked by real-time synchronous data mirroring and load balanced networks. The critical production
services are swapped between these two sites around six times a year, demonstrating their capability to
take over production in the event of a disaster impacting any of the data centres.
A third data centre enables the resumption of business critical services within the same business day of a
major incident affecting both main sites. The regional recovery capability is tested at least once a year.
The network is active/active/active. Client communications are load balanced and therefore do not rely on
just one Data Centre for communications in or out. They are automatically redirected to the right server
111
EXK50112

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

depending on where the service is running. Virtual IP addressing is used to aid the failover and avoid the
need to change IP addresses.
Review and testing
The Business Continuity Policy is reviewed annually and considers changes to Euroclear risk profile,
business objectives, operational environment, legal and regulatory requirements and market expectations.
A formal BCP test framework is maintained indicating how and when each element of the plan is tested.
The test framework helps ensure that all elements of the plan are tested periodically.
Each business owner has the responsibility to implement effective BCP solutions in his area. The risk
management function has the overall role of coordinating and promoting BCP testing and reviews. RM also
consolidates management reporting of the testing and its outcome to management, Audit and Risk
Committee and to the group. These tests include:


IT disaster recovery testing: Production is transferred from data centre one to data centre
two at least six times per year and once per year to data centre three.



office switch tests, simulating the loss of a single office is organised at least twice/year for
each department running any critical function.



several crisis management exercises (alerting tests or desktop or simulation exercises) are
organised each year.

The BCP solution and recovery plan including the switch of processing between sites is transparent to
clients. This means, that although there may be service interruptions, the recovery process is transparent
to users, i.e. the clients does not know from which of the IT centres the services are provided, or if there
was a switch of the processing site during the interruption or not. Thus, there is not any particular action
for a client to take during a BCP test. (This is the same for all of the Euroclear group).

Key consideration 7: An FMI should identify, monitor, and manage the risks that key clients,
other FMIs, and service and utility providers might pose to its operations. In addition, an FMI
should identify, monitor, and manage the risks its operations might pose to other FMIs.
Risks to the FMI´s own operations
The Operational Risk Board Policy defines policy goals for services delivered by third parties as well as for
client affiliation and monitoring.
For certain aspects of the services offered to clients, Euroclear (I)CSDs use external service providers. The
use of services provided by the external parties is governed by local outsourcing management resolutions
in line with Operational Risk Board policy.
The relationship between Euroclear and service providers is subject to a formal contract including service
level management agreements even when the provider is an entity of the group Euroclear.
112
EXK50113

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Euroclear has identified the required roles, and assigned appropriate responsibilities to manage and monitor
its service providers. Service delivery is reviewed on a regular basis. Services are measured and compared
with targets to identify whether the objectives are met, and where applicable, what actions need to be
taken to improve the service.
The IT services have been outsourced to a service provider: Euroclear SA/NV which is the parent company
of the Euroclear (I)CSDs. The relationship with the provider is defined in a formal agreement including
service level agreements. Service delivery is reviewed on a regular basis through Key Performance
Indicators (KPI). Corrective actions are requested when the agreed KPI are not met.
Euroclear has signed contracts with different providers avoiding that a single provider would put Euroclear
operations at risks.
By contract, Euroclear’s auditors have the right to audit the relevant arrangements of the service provider.
Concerning their clients, Euroclear (I)CSDs are providing financial market infrastructure services. An
operational failure of a large client or another FMI (such as a CCP) will not pose any significant risks directly
to the FMI, but they may pose risks to their counterparts and may pose risks to the efficiency of the
systems, e.g. the settlement ratio. Such risks are mitigated in several ways, e.g. by:


client admission criteria and the continued follow-up of these by annual due diligence visits



continuous monitoring of system usage and by incitements by clients to follow the
established user rules



offering client the possibility to use different network providers.

In the framework of its market links, Euroclear (I)CSDs review operational risks aspects of linked (I)CSDs
or local custodians used as an intermediary to access foreign markets. See also Principle 20.
The main types of risk Euroclear Bank bears from interdependencies are listed in Principle 3. For operational
risks, the following interdependencies are mentioned:


Settlement with Clearstream Banking Luxembourg Banking Luxembourg (Bridge)



SWIFT and BT: messaging/communication of instructions



CSDs: non-settlement of instructions

Settlement with Clearstream Banking Luxembourg (Bridge)
The Bridge with Clearstream Banking Luxembourg is the most important link of Euroclear Bank in terms of
value settled. Euroclear Bank and Clearstream Banking Luxembourg have jointly developed a common
credit risk management framework (See Principle 20).
Each day, there are about 34 files exchanges between the ICSDs. The ICSDs have developed joint operating
contingency procedures. These procedures cover different scenarios: continue internal processing without
input from the other ICSD, change of sequence in Bridge exchanges, errors in the exposure checking
process which may require a re-run of the internal processing. Euroclear Bank conducts internal testing for
different scenarios.

113
EXK50114

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

SWIFT and BT: messaging/communication of instructions
Only 6% of the traffic is dependent on one channel (1% is dependent on SWIFT, 5% on Euroclear Bank’s
proprietary communication tool ‘EUCLID which can be used via the internet or BT Radianz – see table
below).
CSDs: non-settlement of instructions

In the framework of its market link reviews, Euroclear Bank reviews operational risks aspects, including the
business continuity plans, of linked CSDs or local custodians used as an intermediary to access foreign
markets. See also Principle 20.
Risks posed to other FMIs
By providing (I)CSD services with full delivery versus payment processes, Euroclear entities are reducing
the risks encountered by their clients for the settlement of their transactions.
As any FMI and more especially any CSD, if a Euroclear (I)CSD would not be available, this would have a
significant impact for clients (e.g. late settlement, potential liquidity issue for clients who were expecting
to receive cash), other FMIs such as CCP (e.g. difficulties to identify margin calls / buy in to be processed)
and central banks (e.g. settlement of MMIs, new government bond issues, payment of interests /
redemptions, bank liquidity management if the collateral in Euroclear cannot be provided).
To reduce the risks related to interconnectivity with external entities (large clients, central banks, CCPs,
stock exchanges), Euroclear is participating to a number of national working groups focusing on crisis
preparedness and business continuity management. Euroclear’s (I)CSDs participates to common exercises
with the financial sector to test the effectiveness of crisis management and improve crisis management
with the financial market.
The main types of risk Euroclear Bank poses to other FMIs are listed in Principle 3. For operational risks,
the following interdependencies are mentioned:


Clearstream Banking Luxembourg execution settlement
Settlement via the Bridge represents a larger share in total settlement turnover in
Clearstream Banking Luxembourg compared to Euroclear Bank. The dependency of
Clearstream Banking Luxembourg on the well-functioning of the Bridge is therefore much
larger.
The ICSDs have developed a common credit risk management framework (See Principle
20) and they have developed joint operating contingency procedures covering different
scenarios



Other CSDs local settlement failures
The potential impact of Euroclear Bank settlement failures on the functioning of the local
market/CSD depends on the volumes and values of the settlement via external links (i.e.
114
EXK50115

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
one counterparty in the books of Euroclear Bank, the other one in the local CSD). The
potential impact is therefore different from market to market.


CCPs
CCPs are sending settlement instructions to Euroclear Bank. If for any reason, Euroclear
Bank cannot settle those instructions on time, there is risk that CCPs have to apply margin
call to their clients.



TARGET 2
In case, Euroclear Bank would not be able to send cash transfer to TARGET2, the main risk
would be for clients who would not be able to manage their treasury efficiently. To reduce
the risk of such scenario, Euroclear Bank has implemented contingency procedures with
the NBB using back-up files.



ECB
Euroclear Bank plays an important role in the mobilisation of ESCB eligible collateral in the
Eurosystem. Euroclear Bank is used to mobilise Eurobonds (as issuer CSD) and certain
domestic bonds via ESCB-eligible market links (as investor CSD). In case access to
collateral for monetary policy is not available, this would impact monetary policy execution.
Again, to reduce the risk of such scenario, contingency procedures have been considered
including the manual processing of a limited number of transfer cash or securities.

115
EXK50116

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Principle	18:	Access	and	participation	requirements	
An FMI should have objective, risk-based, and publicly disclosed criteria for participation, which permit fair
and open access

Key consideration 1: An FMI should allow for fair and open access to its services, including by
direct and, where relevant, indirect clients and other FMIs, based on reasonable risk-related
participation requirements.
Euroclear operates an open and transparent access and participation process, with publicly disclosed, nondiscriminatory participation requirements. The admission criteria are set out in our Operating Procedures
and are publicly available on euroclear.com
Euroclear Bank has recently updated its requirements for participation in the Euroclear system with effect
from February 2014. These revised admission criteria are designed to ensure fair and open access, secure
compliance with the Belgian Royal Decree of 11 February 2013 implementing the Settlement Finality Act
of 28 April 1999 (SFAct) and with this CPSS-IOSCO Principle 18.
Access to Euroclear Bank is business driven, taking into consideration the limited risk profile Euroclear must
maintain as a financial market infrastructure. As such, Euroclear Bank must:
•

not admit natural persons, as these cannot participate in an SSS

•

allow for fair and open access to our services, based on reasonable risk-related
requirements for participation

•

grant to credit institutions and investment firms established in other EU member states a
right to access the Euroclear System under the same non-discriminatory, transparent and
objective criteria as those applied to Belgian credit institutions and investment firms and
for all transactions, whether or not made on a regulated market or MTF established in
Belgium

•

identify and assess specific risks resulting from the admission of entities that are not subject
to supervision in the EU

•

comply with applicable AML legislation, identify our clients and monitor their transactions
for the purpose of prevention of money laundering and terrorism financing.

Pre-condition to admission to Euroclear Bank
An applicant must meet the following preliminary conditions:
-

be established in a jurisdiction that is assessed by us as acceptable from a risk perspective

-

provide adequate information enabling us to meet our own Belgian anti-money laundering and
116
EXK50117

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

terrorism financing obligations.
Categorisation of applicants
An applicant is also required to meet the admission criteria set out in the following section (the 5 admission
criteria). The five basic criteria are the same for all applicants, with additional requirements applicable in
certain circumstances depending on whether the applicant is a standard client, a specific regulated client
or a specific 13client to reflect the relative risks associated with the client-type.

1. Standard clients

All those falling in the definition of client in the SFAct,
(Settlement Finality Act) whether or not established in
the EU and those considered as ‘institution’ which
covers credit institutions, investment firms, public
authorities and publicly guaranteed undertakings.
Any other legal entity established in the EU and falling
under the supervision of any competent authority in
the meaning of the EBA , ESMA and EIOPA regulations
or EMIR (CCPs, insurance undertakings, UCITS, AIFS).

2.1.

Specific

Regulated

clients

Any other legal entity established and regulated
outside the EU or any legal entity listed on a stock
exchange.

2.2. Specific clients

Non-regulated

legal

entities,

whether

or

not

established in the EU.

This second category requires us to impose distinct criteria aiming to take into consideration additional
risks that may result from such entities’ participation in the Euroclear System.
Today, Euroclear Bank clients come from more than 80 different countries and include major international
banks and smaller players, different types of institutions (from investment banks, central banks, other FMIs
to investment funds and corporates). All of our clients are direct clients.

13 In the meaning of the Belgian Settlement Finality law

117
EXK50118

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The five admission criteria
Any applicant is required to meet the following five admission criteria:

Adequate financial resources
You demonstrate adequate financial resources to run your business on a going basis
concern and meet your obligations towards us, the Euroclear System and its clients.

Operational & technological capacity
You demonstrate adequate operational and technological capacity to ensure
business continuity and avoid material adverse impact on the integrity of the
Euroclear System.

Legal capacity
You demonstrate your legal capacity and ability to accept and comply with the rules
of the Euroclear System.

Internal control & risk management
You have sound internal controls and risk management that are such as to preserve
your and the reputation of the Euroclear System.

Ethical standards
You have implemented ethical standards that are such as to protect the integrity
and reputation of the Euroclear System.

If an applicant’s request for participation is refused, it has a right of appeal. The appeals process is set out
in the Operating Procedures and is publicly available on euroclear.com
118
EXK50119

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Key consideration 2: An FMI’s participation requirements should be justified in terms of the
safety and efficiency of the FMI and the markets it serves, be tailored to and commensurate
with the FMI’s specific risks, and be publicly disclosed. Subject to maintaining acceptable risk
control standards, an FMI should endeavour to set requirements that have the least restrictive
impact on access that circumstances permit.
Euroclear Bank admission criteria mentioned above are justified in terms of safety and aim to limit either
specific risks, including financial risks (financial resources requirement), operational risks (technology
capability criterion) and legal risks (legal capacity requirement), or risks in general (internal controls and
risk management and ethical standards).
As noted above, the admission requirements are set out in the Euroclear Bank Operating Procedures and
are publicly available on euroclear.com

Key consideration 3: An FMI should monitor compliance with its participation requirements on
an ongoing basis and have clearly defined and publicly disclosed procedures for facilitating the
suspension and orderly exit of a client that breaches, or no longer meets, the participation
requirements.
Euroclear Bank monitors its clients’ continued compliance with our participation requirements. It is also a
condition of participation in the Euroclear system that a client continues to meet the admission criteria on
an ongoing basis. Clients are required to notify us of any material event or changes which may affect their
ability to comply with the admission criteria listed above.
All clients are reviewed on a regular basis (the ‘sponsorship review’) to confirm that they continue to meet
the admission criteria.
If a client no longer meets the admission criteria, Section 14 of the Terms & Conditions explains the
procedure for the termination of participation.

119
EXK50120

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Principle	19:	Tiered	participation	arrangements	
An FMI should identify, monitor, and manage the material risks to the FMI arising from tiered participation
arrangements.
Key consideration 1: An FMI should ensure that its rules, procedures, and agreements allow it
to gather basic information about indirect participation in order to identify, monitor, and
manage any material risks to the FMI arising from such tiered participation arrangements.
Euroclear Bank has a contractual relationship only with the direct clients of the Euroclear System; we do
not admit or recognise indirect or tiered clients nor have any relationship with underlying clients of our
clients. However, Euroclear Bank still manages risks and believes that it is currently not exposed to material
risks arising from the clients of its clients.
Risks (such as AML, credit, liquidity, technical or operational risk) – and their materiality - are monitored
and assessed at the level of the direct client, taking into account all of its activities in the Euroclear System
(whether proprietary or on behalf of underlying clients). There is currently no formal procedure to evaluate
potential risks arising from dependencies linked to our clients' underlying clients' activities nor (with certain
exceptions noted below relating to beneficial owners) any procedures to gather information from our clients
about their underlying clients. We are currently reviewing our approach in this area.
Concerning potential AML risks, whenever a client opens a segregated account for the benefit of an
underlying client, then it is requested to provide details of the beneficial owner (as defined under the
applicable regulations), unless it is itself exempt from disclosure obligations under applicable AML
regulations.
For credit risk, we monitor and manage information in our systems at an aggregated level (at legal entity
and global family level) which allows us to adequately manage the credit and liquidity risks associated with
both our clients and their underlying client activity.
The table below shows the number of clients (at legal entity level) in the Euroclear system as on 30
September 2015 and the number of securities accounts operated by our clients.
Our clients have full flexibility on how they set up their underlying securities accounts (for example, to
segregate own assets and client assets, to segregate assets of different business units within a client; an
omnibus account for underlying client assets; segregated sub-accounts to reflect assets of different
underlying clients ….)
Participation in the Euroclear System (as on 30 September 2015)
Number of clients

Number

of

securities

accounts (clients own and
of

underlying

clients'

activity
1,618

15,387
120
EXK50121

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Euroclear Bank has no legal right to collect information on clients’ clients beyond the existing information
available in its system at individual account level. As noted above, Euroclear Bank is reviewing how it might
collect additional basic information in line with Principle 19 whilst recognising that seeking additional
information directly from the clients raises confidentiality concerns that would have to be addressed. In
addition, collecting such information without the underlying clients’ prior consent could likely require legal
changes in many jurisdictions to allow such collection and to ensure the cooperation of the clients.

Key consideration 2: An FMI should identify material dependencies between direct and indirect
clients that might affect the FMI.
This question will be addressed from the perspective of the relationship between the Euroclear Bank clients
and their underlying clients as no tiered participation arrangements exist in the Euroclear System.
Statistical evidence shows that large clients usually open many securities accounts, assigned to operating
entities of the same client or to specific or global client activity. The capacity of Euroclear Bank to further
assess dependencies between clients and underlying clients will remain dependent on the level of
segregation that is chosen by the client.
There is currently no formal procedure in place to evaluate any dependencies due to clients' underlying
clients' activity that might affect the Euroclear System. However, as noted above, from a banking risk
perspective, interdependencies between clients and their underlying clients are managed by Euroclear Bank
at an aggregated level to ensure that the capacity of the client is adequate to manage its activities in
Euroclear.

Key consideration 3: An FMI should identify indirect clients responsible for a significant
proportion of transactions processed by the FMI and indirect clients whose transaction volumes
or values are large relative to the capacity of the direct clients through which they access the
FMI in order to manage the risks arising from these transactions.
Euroclear Bank now reviews the depot and activity levels of our clients on a regular basis to identify whether
there is a material concentration of activity (measured by either depot or transactions) with one or more
of our direct clients. Euroclear Bank then reviews whether there is a material concentration of activity at a
segregated client account level within any of such clients to establish whether there is potentially a
significant proportion of activity processed by us that is being conducted on behalf of an underlying client
of a client. To date, no material concentration in segregated accounts have been identified.
As noted earlier, Euroclear Bank assesses and monitors the capacity of its direct clients to manage the
activity conducted with us at an aggregated level. Further monitoring of the clients' cash accounts would
allow Euroclear Bank to better understand the credit exposures specifically associated to underlying clients
and to take – if relevant - the initiative to call for a reduction of credit usage.

121
EXK50122

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Key consideration 4: An FMI should regularly review risks arising from tiered participation
arrangements and should take mitigating action when appropriate.
See previous comments.

122
EXK50123

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Principle	20:	FMI	links	
An FMI that establishes a link with one or more FMIs should identify, monitor and manage link-related
risks.

Key consideration 1: Before entering into a link arrangement and on an ongoing basis once the
link is established, an FMI should identify, monitor and manage all potential sources of risk
arising from the link arrangement. Link arrangements should be designed such that each FMI is
able to observe the other principles in this report.
Before opening a link, Euroclear Bank performs a risk assessment on the local market and the candidateagents. Once the link is open, Euroclear Bank’s Network Management department monitors on an ongoing
basis the changes that could affect the risk profile of the link or the appointed agents. All market links and
agents have to be re-approved every year by Euroclear Bank’s Management Committee. Every three years,
Network Management performs a complete market link review of each link.
Euroclear Bank’s Management Committee is responsible for the approval of any new link set-up and the
appointment of any agent (including the depositories and cash correspondents that are involved in the
links) as well as for the yearly re-approval of all links and agents.
The risk assessment of the prospective market link includes any legal, tax and regulatory issues as well as
risks related to the market infrastructure (CSDs, stock exchanges, CCPs) and operational risks. It is
coordinated by the Network Management department with the input from Risk Management, Legal, Credit
and other departments. In case the risk assessment identifies major risks in the local market that cannot
be mitigated and/or no agent meets Euroclear Bank’s criteria, no link will be established with that market.
In addition, before opening a market link, the securities of the market are subject to an eligibility review.
Securities need to meet certain criteria in order to be accepted in Euroclear Bank (e.g. criteria on
registration, ownership restrictions, reporting obligations and disclosure requirements).
All agents are evaluated against criteria with regard to anti-money laundering, operational readiness, good
reputation and financial soundness. Upon selection of a new agent, Euroclear Bank conducts a due diligence
review of the candidates. The candidates must meet business and quality requirements, accept the terms
of the standard Euroclear Bank agreement, comply with data protection and confidentiality requirements,
be financially sound, manage their operational risk and meet business continuity requirements.
Furthermore, being associated with the candidate should not cause reputational damage for Euroclear
Bank14. The criteria in this process are used to form a judgment about the candidate; no formal acceptance
levels for these criteria are used in some instances as guidance, e.g. in case the risk associated with a
market or candidate exceeds certain internal thresholds (e.g. credit ratings, FATF compliance, ...), such
risk needs to be mitigated or formally accepted.

14 Selection and monitoring of agents (Euroclear Bank Management Resolution)

123
EXK50124

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Key consideration 2: A link should have a well-founded legal basis, in all relevant jurisdictions,
that supports its design and provides adequate protection to the FMIs involved in the link.
The legal framework supporting the Euroclear Bank links includes all contractual documentation with CSDs
and agents (for operated links) for direct links and depositories for indirect links, as well as cash
correspondent agreements. Such contractual documentation is governed by the laws of the local market.
The Bridge Agreement which governs the interoperable link between the two ICSDs (Euroclear Bank and
Clearstream Banking Luxembourg) is governed by both Luxembourg and Belgian law depending on where
the operations take place.
For all links it maintains, Euroclear Bank obtains a legal opinion from a law firm with expertise in the local
market, which covers the validity and enforceability of the contracts and asset protection among others. A
revision process is organised on a three-yearly basis. Ad-hoc revisions within a shorter time frame are
performed if needed.

Key consideration 3: Linked CSDs should measure, monitor, and manage the credit and liquidity
risks arising from each other. Any credit extensions between CSDs should be covered fully with
high-quality collateral and be subject to limits.
The main instance where Euroclear Bank has a direct credit or liquidity risk on a linked CSD is with
Clearstream Banking Luxembourg:
-

when Euroclear Bank delivers securities that need to be paid for by Clearstream Banking

Luxembourg, Euroclear Bank has an exposure on Clearstream Banking Luxembourg
-

when Clearstream Banking Luxembourg delivers securities that need to be paid for by Euroclear

Bank, Clearstream Banking Luxembourg has an exposure on Euroclear Bank.
The net exposure that results from this Bridge activity is limited to the amount of the letter of credit (L/C)
that each ICSD has in favour of the other ICSD. Euroclear Bank has several techniques to keep the exposure
under the amount of the L/C. By reducing the amount of deliveries to Clearstream Banking Luxembourg
(‘deselection’), the exposure on Clearstream Banking Luxembourg is reduced. Early morning payments
(between 03:00 and 05:00 Brussels time, possible because Euroclear Bank and Clearstream Banking
Luxembourg share the same cash correspondents in EUR and USD) by the ICSD that owes the other ICSD,
can reduce the net exposure of the other ICSD. Exposures on Clearstream Banking Luxembourg in one
currency can also be secured by cash that Clearstream Banking Luxembourg holds with Euroclear Bank in
another currency (‘currency set-off’). A capping mechanism aims to keep the net exposures (based on
proposed deliveries and re-deliveries by the other ICSD) that the ICSDs have on each other within the
amount of the L/C. As this L/C is provided by a syndicate of banks, it is considered as equivalent to highquality collateral. When Euroclear Bank refuses deliveries from Clearstream Banking Luxembourg because
the Euroclear Bank clients lack cash or credit, the netting effect from Clearstream Banking Luxembourg
deliveries is reduced and Euroclear Bank’s net exposure on Clearstream Banking Luxembourg may exceed
124
EXK50125

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

the L/C. In order to comply with this Principle, advanced income and redemptions between the two ICSDs
are since May 2014 systematically secured by the respective L/Cs. In case Clearstream Banking
Luxembourg would not be able to settle its net payment obligations (in any currency) with Euroclear Bank
on a day when Euroclear Bank’s net exposure exceeds the L/C, Euroclear Bank still has the right to reverse
cash amounts from Euroclear Bank clients who delivered securities against payment via the Bridge to their
counterparties in Clearstream Banking Luxembourg.
Credit exposures resulting from inbound links are discussed in Principle 4, as such CSDs are treated as
normal clients. The way Euroclear Bank manages its credit and liquidity risk arising from its local cash
correspondents is explained under KC 9.4.

Key consideration 4: Provisional transfers of securities between linked CSDs should be
prohibited or, at a minimum, the retransfer of provisionally transferred securities should be
prohibited prior to the transfer becoming final.
There is only one case where Euroclear Bank receives provisional securities: newly-issued money market
instruments received from DTC in the US market. Euroclear Bank blocks such securities in the clients’
accounts until they are final in the local market, thereby prohibiting their re-transfer.15

Key consideration 5: An investor CSD should only establish a link with an issuer CSD if the
arrangement provides a high level of protection for the rights of the investor CSD’s clients.
The initial selection process for the opening of a market link is primarily based on the existence of an
adequate protection of clients’ assets under the local market standards and legal framework (Please refer
to Key Consideration 1 above and Principle 11).
The Depository Agreements include provisions aiming at the protection of clients’ assets (such as
segregation of Euroclear Bank’s clients’ assets from those of the depository or those of other clients of the
depository, a prohibition of sub-deposits without prior approval by Euroclear Bank, existence of an
insurance coverage for the securities held via the link).
In addition, Euroclear Bank obtains legal opinions that confirm among others that the depository’s creditors
do not have a claim on Euroclear Bank’s clients’ assets held at the depository. Further details with regard
to asset protection and custody risk are available in the sections covering Principle 1, 11 and 16.
Euroclear Bank’s safeguards include segregation of securities, insurance and vault inspections (in case of
physical certificates), as explained in more detail in Principle 16.

15 Euroclear Bank Operating Procedures, Section 24, USA, §5

125
EXK50126

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Key consideration 6: An investor CSD that uses an intermediary to operate a link with an issuer
CSD should measure, monitor, and manage the additional risks (including custody, credit, legal,
and operational risks) arising from the use of the intermediary.
Many selection criteria for intermediaries used to operate a link are risk-based, covering risks ranging from
custody risk to financial and reputational risk. Agents must have a good reputation and financial soundness.
They must comply with data protection and confidentiality, operational risk management and business
continuity requirements. Other criteria include anti-money laundering requirements, operational readiness
and service quality requirements.
The liabilities of the intermediaries are defined in their agreements with Euroclear Bank. Intermediaries are
liable for losses subject to the usual force majeure clauses, but they are not liable for losses caused by the
issuer CSDs. Euroclear Bank’s liabilities towards clients are defined in the Terms & Conditions (Section 12),
which state that Euroclear Bank shall have no liability for the acts or omissions of (or the bankruptcy or
insolvency of) any intermediary or linked CSD.
KC 20.7 to KC 20.9 are not applicable to Euroclear Bank.

126
EXK50127

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Principle	21:	Efficiency	and	effectiveness	
An FMI should be efficient and effective in meeting the requirements of its clients and the markets it serves.

Key consideration 1: An FMI should be designed to meet the needs of its clients and the markets
it serves, in particular, with regard to choice of a clearing and settlement arrangement;
operating structure; scope of products cleared, settled, or recorded; and use of technology and
procedures.
The Euroclear group is user-owned and user-governed and operates in a competitive environment.
Therefore, there is a constant pressure to meet the needs of its clients and the markets it serves.
Its settlement arrangements, for example, offer real-time settlement from around 01:30 to 19:00 Brussels
time in order to meet the needs from clients from different time zones around the world Euroclear Bank
delivered end September 2015– together with Clearstream Banking Luxemburg- Phase 1 of the Bridge
settlement enhancements, which provides greater flexibility and increased efficiency for clients. Phase 1
brought significant improvement to input deadlines, in particular for core currencies, more efficient
settlement turnaround time in the afternoons and the extension of interoperability between the two ICSDs
at the end of the day. Phase 2, planned for delivery in 2017, will deliver an even later bridge and faster
settlement turnaround; further helping collateral mobility and improving settlement efficiency.
The scope of products offered is very wide. Euroclear Bank does not only offer settlement of Eurobonds,
but also settlement of domestic securities via its links with other markets. Based on our clients demand,
Euroclear Bank is extending on an ongoing basis, the range of markets it serves. Euroclear Bank now has
links with CSDs in 45 countries. In addition to pure settlement, Euroclear Bank also offers a range of related
services, such as asset servicing, securities lending and borrowing and collateral management.
Furthermore, Euroclear Bank has a dedicated platform for investment funds (FundSettle).
The various communications technologies that Euroclear Bank uses, satisfy the needs of both high-volume
users (e.g. STP communication via SWIFT) and users that prefer a screen-based interface (e.g. Euroclear
Bank’s proprietary EUCLID channel). In its continuous effort to ‘make post-trade easy’, Euroclear Bank
has launched a new browser-based application EasyWay which is being gradually rolled out through the
various services of Euroclear Bank and other CSDs of the group. It is designed and built in collaboration
with clients and does not only allow them to perform operational tasks efficiently and quickly, but also to
manage their operational risks (e.g. by monitoring the corporate actions deadlines easily).
In addition to the day-to-day contacts with its clients, Euroclear Bank also monitors the evolutions in the
market and conducts an annual client survey.
Euroclear Bank’s Commercial division, in cooperation with the Product Management division, ensures that
customers' demands and business needs can be translated into new product/services or enhancements to
current services.

127
EXK50128

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

In order to understand the needs of the clients and their evolution, Product Management performs the
following tasks: competition analysis, follow-up of market developments and product/service evolution
through the review of press articles and specialised publications, presence in various conferences and round
tables, ad-hoc consultation with clients and market clients. Those actions are key trigger to support the
conception and the development of our business strategy for the future
Feedback from clients is collected and evaluated yearly via the Client Survey, open to all clients across the
group and measuring the level of satisfaction for the various services Euroclear Bank offers. It is based on
this feedback that Euroclear is establishing the list of key services enhancements it will introduce over the
next months and years. For example, over the last two years, Euroclear has worked on a number of service
enhancements aiming at increasing our STP rates which now stands at 97% for asset servicing. This has
significantly improved the clients’ satisfaction measured in the client survey.

Key consideration 2: An FMI should have clearly defined goals and objectives that are
measurable and achievable, such as in the areas of minimum service levels, risk-management
expectations, and business priorities.
In the area of minimum service levels, Euroclear Bank has a 99.50% uptime target for its systems. This
objective has been achieved over the last years. Please see the graph below for an overview of the system
availability from 2004 until Q3 2015. This objective is not only monitored by Euroclear Bank, but also by
the authorities of Euroclear Bank on a quarterly basis.

EB 2004 - 2015
Yearly - Uptime

100.00%
99.80%
99.60%
99.40%
99.20%

2015 YTD

Dec

Nov

Oct

Sep

Aug

Jul

Jun

May

Apr

Mar

Feb

Jan

2014

2013

2012

2011

2010

2009

2008

2007

2006

2005

2004

99.00%

Key consideration 3: An FMI should have established mechanisms for the regular review of its
efficiency and effectiveness.
The efficiency and effectiveness are measured at different levels. The Balanced Scorecard (BSC, which is
the document containing the objectives of the year) is used to evaluate the performance of Senior
128
EXK50129

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Management against the strategic priorities. The BSC objectives include financial, business, operational,
risk and other objectives.
The Euroclear divisions that are relevant for the efficiency and effectiveness of Euroclear Bank continuously
monitor Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) which are tailored to their specific functions (e.g. Settlement
follows up transaction statistics, IT departments monitor technical indicators). In addition, Key Risk
Indicators (KRIs) are monitored to allow proactive identification of risks that may threaten the achievement
of objectives. These KRIs cover both general risks (such as people risk indicators, e.g. turnover of staff) as
well as specific risks (e.g. on credit usage or collateral).
Efficiency and effectiveness are evaluated on an ongoing basis via the KPIs and KRIs by Euroclear Bank.
The ultimate evaluation by clients is done every year in the annual client survey.

129
EXK50130

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Principle	22:	Communication	procedures	and	standards	
An FMI should use, or at a minimum accommodate, relevant internationally accepted communication
procedures and standards in order to facilitate efficient payment, clearing, settlement, and recording.

Key consideration 1: An FMI should use, or at a minimum accommodate, internationally
accepted communication procedures and standards.
Euroclear Bank uses internationally accepted procedures and standards, including for cross-border
operations.
Interaction between Euroclear Bank and its clients is either user-to-application (i.e. screens) or applicationto-application (i.e. STP communication solutions). International standards are used in both, but are - for
integration purposes - more relevant or needed for the application-to-application channels.
This fully automated interaction on application-to-application channels is possible today in ISO and
proprietary formats. Euroclear continues to invest in ISO standard automated communication.
In the area of corporate actions, ISO 15022 standards are available. Euroclear Bank has invested over the
last few years to increase SMPG (Securities Market Practice Group) compliance and it will continue to do
so. Euroclear also has plans to introduce the use of the new ISO 20022 standards in addition to the existing
ISO 15022 in areas where such standards exist.
In addition to the Common Code (a securities identification code shared by Euroclear Bank and Clearstream
Banking Luxembourg, Euroclear Bank uses the ISIN to identify financial instruments. Clients can always
use the ISIN to instruct and receive reporting with the ISIN if they wish.
For external settlement, instruction format requirements differ from one market to the next. The BIC is
one of the possibilities that exist to identify a counterparty. Another possibility is a five-digit Euroclear Bank
code corresponding to a local counterparty as identified in Euroclear Bank’s online counterparties database
available via my.euroclear.com > My Apps > Counterparties search

130
EXK50131

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Principle	23:	Disclosure	of	rules,	key	procedures,	and	market	data	
An FMI should have clear and comprehensive rules and procedures and should provide sufficient information
to enable clients to have an accurate understanding of the risks, fees, and other material costs they incur
by participating in the FMI. All relevant rules and key procedures should be publicly disclosed.

Key consideration 1: An FMI should adopt clear and comprehensive rules and procedures that
are fully disclosed to clients. Relevant rules and key procedures should also be publicly
disclosed.
The two main documents that comprise Euroclear Bank’s rules and procedures are:
-

the Terms and Conditions governing use of Euroclear (T&C)

-

the Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System ( ‘Operating Procedures’ / Ops)

The T&C contains the description of the key rights and obligations of Euroclear Bank and the clients, when
using the Euroclear System.
The OPs are much more detailed and are comprised of five parts:
-

Part I - Introduction: describes the OPs as part of our legal documentation and the different
regulators supervising us as a Belgian bank

-

Part II - General Rules: describes the requirements for becoming a client and gives a
detailed overview of the functioning of the Euroclear System

-

Part III - Rights and Responsibilities: describes your rights and responsibilities as a client
of the Euroclear System

-

Part IV - Connectivity: explains how to connect to and from the Euroclear System

-

Part V gives a detailed overview of the functioning of the various services

Rules of some specific services provided by Euroclear Bank such as extension of credit to clients

or

securities lending and borrowing are stated in separate contracts and documents, for example:


Supplementary Terms and Conditions Governing the Securities Lending and Borrowing through
Euroclear Bank



General Conditions for the Extension of Credit to Participants in the Euroclear System

Euroclear Bank (Risk Management and Legal departments) has conducted a complete review of the Ops in
2013. The purpose of the review was to bring more transparency in regards to the risks clients incur by
participating to the Euroclear System. The revised OPs are made available proactively to clients and the
public, via my.euroclear.com

131
EXK50132

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Note: Euroclear Bank manages two distinct websites:


euroclear.com – the corporate website



my.euroclear.com – the operational knowledge portal

The T&C are the high-level description of the clients’ rights and obligations. They have precedence over the
OPs, which supplement the T&C and set forth detailed rules and procedures with respect to the functioning
of the Euroclear System.
Non-routine events such as termination of participation, resignation of clients or securities losses are
detailed in the T&C. Section 3.8. of the OPs detail the rules applicable to defaulted clients.
clients receive the T&C and OPs at the start of their relationship with Euroclear Bank.
In addition, both the Terms & Conditions and the OPs are available on euroclear.com They are also available
upon a client’s request.
Updates to these documents are provided via Newsletter that are available on the web and sent proactively
by email to all registered clients.
Both the Terms & Conditions and the OPs are available on the public part of the Euroclear website.

Key consideration 2: An FMI should disclose clear descriptions of the system’s design and
operations, as well as the FMI’s and clients’ rights and obligations, so that clients can assess
the risks they would incur by participating in the FMI.
High-level information about the system’s design and operations can be found on the Euroclear Bank
website. The ‘About’ section provides a general description of our business, mission, clients, structure,
history and rules (see screenshot 1 below).
In the ‘Services’ section, the user can find relevant information about the various services (see screenshot
2 below).

132
EXK50133

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Screenshot 1

Screenshot 2

133
EXK50134

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

More detailed information about these services can be easily retrieved through the Euroclear Knowledge
base on the Euroclear website (e.g. on Collateral Management, an overview of all operational, tariff and
legal documentation can be obtained as shown in the screenshot below).

These documents, among others, complement the Terms & Conditions and OPs and give the user a view
on the design and operations of the specific services. Euroclear Bank’s CPMI-IOSCO Disclosure Framework
also provides useful information about the system’s design and operations.
The above mentioned information is disclosed to everyone via the Euroclear website.
The process for changing the Terms & Conditions is explained in the Terms & Conditions (Section 19):
The Terms and Conditions including the Operating Procedures may be amended or supplemented at any
time upon notice to you. You will, without prejudice to your rights under Section 14(b), be deemed to have

134
EXK50135

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

accepted any such amendment and supplement, either:


effective immediately, in the case of any amendment or supplement not adversely affecting you



effective ten Business Days after you are notified, in the case of any other amendment or
supplement

As it is disclosed via the publicly available Terms & Conditions, it is disclosed to everyone.
The degree of discretion that Euroclear Bank has in applying the Terms & Conditions and OPs are mentioned
in the relevant sections of the Terms & Conditions and OPs. For example, in Section 5.2.1 of the OPs
paragraph (b) ‘We reserve the right to add or omit processes to any Processing set out in this section’ or
paragraph (c) ‘We may perform a Processing at any time, and include data, that we in our sole discretion
consider appropriate if we are either:
● unable to perform all or part of the OSSP or RTP
● have not received the required data for such processes from external sources by the scheduled
time’.
Also more detailed procedures indicate the degree of discretion that Euroclear Bank has. For example
Section 3.2. (Reversals) paragraph (b) of the OPs mentions that ‘In the event that Clearstream Banking
Luxembourg fails to pay us an amount due, we have the right and are authorised by you to debit your
relevant Cash Account(s) for a portion of the unpaid amount due by Clearstream Banking Luxembourg to
us. […]’ meaning that Euroclear Bank has discretion to use this right (and debit the relevant amounts) or
to decide not to use this right for whatever reason.
For other rules of the system, Euroclear Bank has no discretion, e.g. Section 2.2.2 (Securities Clearance
Accounts and Cash Accounts) paragraph (a) of the OPs states that ‘Once you enter into an agreement to
participate in the Euroclear System we will open at least one Account for you which contains […]’ or
Section 5.3.1.4 (Execution of Custody Operations) paragraph (c) of the OPs states that ‘For Corporate
Actions where you have a choice, the following shall apply: […]’.
All such information is included in the OPs, publicly available .
The clients’ rights and obligations are mentioned in the Terms & Conditions (including Section 12 ‘Duties
and Liabilities of Euroclear Bank’ for the clients’ rights and Section 15 ‘Certain Responsibilities and
Liabilities of clients’ for the clients’ obligations) and OPs (including Part III ‘Rights and Responsibilities’).
The OPs give a description of the rights and obligations of the clients and Euroclear Bank throughout the
whole document (e.g. what a client must do to have his instruction accepted by the system before the
deadline). Euroclear Bank has recently enhanced the transparency by summarising the rights and
responsibilities after each chapter.
Information on the risks is provided via documents such as the Basel II – Pillar 3 disclosure on risk
management or the CPMI-IOSCO / ESCB-CESR Disclosure Framework.

135
EXK50136

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Key consideration 3: An FMI should provide all necessary and appropriate documentation and
training to facilitate clients’ understanding of the FMI’s rules and procedures and the risks
they face from participating in the FMI.
New clients receive a ‘Welcome Pack’. As mentioned on the website, Euroclear offers various training
options to help clients get the best out of its range of products and services.


Local courses



Online training



e-Learning



On-site visit

This is complemented by regular newsletters, brochures and other material that is published regarding
specific topics. For example, operational newsflashes are published on the website regularly (see situation
on 18 October 2013 below), available to clients only via the password-protected part of the website.
Registered client subscribers to these newsflashes also receive emails to alert them to the newsflash.

136
EXK50137

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Euroclear Bank has conducted a complete review of its Operating Procedures in July 2013 in order to
increase the ease of understanding of the rules and risks that clients face, among others.
However, when Euroclear Bank notices a lack of understanding with one or several clients, Euroclear
Bank will provide training to the client(s) either bilaterally or collectively in a way that is most appropriate
(including the training options and documents mentioned in Q.23.3.1).

Key consideration 4: An FMI should publicly disclose its fees at the level of individual services it
offers as well as its policies on any available discounts. The FMI should provide clear
descriptions of priced services for comparability purposes.
On the public part of the Euroclear website, Euroclear Bank publishes the General Fees brochure. This
document provides detailed information on the applicable fees for each type of service and the applied
discounts (sliding scale).
Euroclear Bank applies the European Code of Conduct for Clearing and Settlement (7 November 2006)
and therefore provides price transparency and service unbundling. More information can be found on the
Euroclear website (https://www.euroclear.com/en/about/Our-business/code-of-conduct.html).
Euroclear Bank generally follows a process of informing clients and the public of changes to its services
and fees through Newsletters as they occur. The newsletters announce the change, are posted on the
website and are sent proactively by email to clients and registered users of the website. The tariff
brochure is also updated.
The tariff update is issued once a month (instead of on an ad-hoc basis as previously), taking into
account a minimum of 10 business days before the implementation of a tariff change if it has an adverse
impact on clients, and any time before implementation if the tariff change creates a favorable impact for
clients.
Depending on the nature, magnitude and topic of the change, Euroclear may elect to further publish the
new tariff or service by attracting the media’s attention to it via press releases, advertising campaigns,
journalist interviews, and the like. This is a judgment call rather than a set procedure.
Unlike for tariff changes, there is no set rule, as in a specific number of business days, Euroclear Bank
follows when announcing service changes to clients and the public. The timing of new service
announcements will vary according to their levels of sophistication and to the need for clients to make
technical changes to avail of them.
Euroclear Bank applies the Code of Conduct and complies therefore with the following price transparency
requirements :
-

to enable clients to understand the services they will be provided with, and to understand the prices
they will have to pay for these services, including discount schemes

137
EXK50138

Exhibit K-5
-

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
to facilitate the comparison of prices and services, and to enable clients to reconcile ex-post billing
of their business flow against the published prices and the services provided

The Euroclear website mentions the different connection types that are possible:


public internet



private network providers (SWIFT and BT), as described below

Clients can choose one (or several) of them depending on which is the most advantageous for them.

138
EXK50139

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Key consideration 5: An FMI should complete regularly and disclose publicly responses to the
CPSS-IOSCO Disclosure framework for financial market infrastructures. An FMI also should, at
a minimum, disclose basic data on transaction volumes and values.
Euroclear Bank publishes a Disclosure Framework every year. The last version was published in April
2014.
Besides the company information (including financial and governance information) and information on the
services that Euroclear Bank offers, Euroclear Bank also discloses risk management information such as
the Basel II Pillar 3 disclosure and information on Euroclear’s business continuity.
Statistical data can also be retrieved from the Euroclear website (e.g. Weekly/Monthly/Quarterly/Yearly
turnover), in addition to the statistical information that is available via publications such as the Blue
Book.
The media will vary according to the nature, magnitude and significance of the information. At a
minimum, the information will be disclosed in a Newsletter, posted on the website and an alert sent to
registered clients and users by e-mail to announce the availability of new information. The ‘Asset
Protection Pack’ is available on the website. Some brochures also exist in paper format.
Euroclear Bank may also use other media that are more promotional in nature, but still have a role to
play in disclosure. These media include:


press releases (as part of a communications plan to support the business. Articles with ‘news value’
(e.g. on new or expanded services, operating results or tariff reductions) may appear in the
financial trade press and/or on the Euroclear website)



social media



adverts



commercial presentations



speeches at industry events



videos/banners on the website and elsewhere



marketing brochures (in electronic and in paper format)



internal communications channels

All information mentioned in this Principle is available in English.

	
Principle	24:	Disclosure	of	market	data	by	trade	repositories	
A trade repository should provide timely and accurate data to relevant authorities and the public in line
with their respective needs.
Not applicable to Euroclear Bank.
139
EXK50140

Exhibit K-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

© 2015 Euroclear Bank SA/NV, 1 Boulevard du Roi Albert II, 1210 Brussels, Belgium – Tel: +32 (0)2 326 1211 –
RPM Brussels number 0429 875 591. Euroclear is the marketing name for the Euroclear System, Euroclear plc, Euroclear
SA/NV and their affiliates. All rights reserved. The information and materials contained in this document are protected
by intellectual property or other proprietary rights. All information contained herein is provided for information purposes
only and does not constitute any recommendation, offer or invitation to engage in any investment, financial or other activity.
We exclude to the fullest extent permitted by law all conditions, guarantees, warranties and/or representations of any kind
with regard to your use of any information contained in this document. You may not use, publish, transmit, or otherwise
reproduce this document or any information contained herein in whole or in part unless we have given our prior written
consent. Your use of any products or services described herein shall be subject to our acceptance in accordance with the
eligibility criteria determined by us.
www.euroclear.com

Euroclear is a carbon neutral company PAS2060 certified • MA3022 • 11-2015

EXK50141

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

August 2015

Risk Management
at Euroclear
Including Pillar 3 disclosure 2014

– Euroclear plc

EXK70001

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Contents
Reducing risk in the market . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Settlement risk . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Delivery-versus-Payment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Managing the risks of the settlement institution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
The implementation of the Basel Framework at Euroclear .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
What is the Basel Framework? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
10

Pillar 1 at Euroclear .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Pillar 2 at Euroclear .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Pillar 3 at Euroclear .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scope of application . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Frequency and medium . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Content .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Capital structure and adequacy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

12
12
14
14
15

Composition of own funds .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Capital adequacy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Economic capital . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Internal Capital Measurement Approach .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euroclear Bank .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Capital Planning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

19
19
19
20

Asset encumbrance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Collateral received . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sources of encumbrance .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

21
21
21
22

Risk management framework and governance .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Risk register & Risk Universe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Control objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euroclear’s Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Three lines of defense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Assurance and Control Effectiveness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Risk Monitoring through Self-Assessments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Risk Assessment and Measurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Risk appetite .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Risk response . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

23
23
25
26
27
27
28
28
29
29

EXK70002

1

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Governance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euroclear plc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euroclear SA/NV .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euroclear (I)CSDs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Other Euroclear entities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Risk management responsibilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euroclear Bank Committee Structure .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

30
30
30
31
32
32
33

Credit risk management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Strategies and processes for credit risk management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euroclear Bank .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Short-term credit provision by Euroclear Bank . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
	
Credit facilities for Euroclear Bank Participants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
	
Credit exposure to other counterparties .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Euroclear CSDs .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

35
35
36
36
37

Credit exposures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Standardised approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Internal ratings-based approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Geographical concentration of credit exposures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Residual maturity breakdown of credit exposures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Credit exposure on equities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Equity exposure, simple risk weights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Other non credit-obligation assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Impaired exposures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

39
39
39
40
41
42
42
42
43

Credit risk mitigation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Secured exposures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Use of netting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Collateral valuation and management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exposures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

44
44
44
45
47

Credit risk measurement and modelling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
FIRBA at Euroclear . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Model governance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Internal rating process . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Estimation of exposures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic capital for credit risk . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

47
47
48
49
51
53

38
Concentration risk . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Rating concentration of financial assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

Counterparty credit risk . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
Market risk management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57

2

Strategies and processes for market risk management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euroclear Bank .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euroclear SA/NV and the Euroclear CSDs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Market risk appetite for Euroclear Bank .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Market risk mitigation (hedging) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

57
57
57
58
58

Market risk measurement .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Value-at-Risk .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic capital for market risk . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stress tests . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

59
59
60
60

EXK70003

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

Foreign exchange risk . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

61

Capital requirements for market risk . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
62
62
63

Equities in the banking book . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Valuation and accounting of equity holdings in the banking book . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Equities in the banking book.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Interest rate risk in the banking book . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Liquidity risk management .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

65

Strategies and processes for liquidity risk management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euroclear Bank .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Euroclear CSDs and Euroclear SA/NV . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Intra-group liquidity management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Liquidity risk appetite . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Funding liquidity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Liquidity contingency plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

65
65
66
66
67
67
68

Liquidity risk measurement and modelling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cash flow projections and management of intra-day and end-of-day liquidity . . . . . .
Global family limit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Liquidity preservation limits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Regulatory stress test ratio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Liquidity stress testing .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

70
70
72
72
72
73

Operational risk management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Strategies and processes for operational risk management .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The ERM framework applied to operational risk management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Operational risk monitoring and controls. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Security and resilience .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Legal protection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Insurance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

76
76
76
76
78
79

Operational risk measurement and modelling .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Regulatory capital requirement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic capital . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Assessment and Rating Methodology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

80
80
81
81

Remuneration policies and practices .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Overall Purpose . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scope . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Governance Structure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Compensation Non-Executive Directors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Compensation Management and Staff . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Deferred Compensation for Top Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

83
83
83
83
84
84
85

Securitisation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
List of acronyms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

87

Annexes .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

89

EXK70004

3

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

4

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXK70005

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Reducing risk
in the market
Well-functioning post-trade arrangements for financial instruments facilitate the efficient allocation
of resources and, therefore, contribute to economic growth. They are also essential for preserving
financial stability, as disruptions occurring in the post-trade processing of transactions could lead to
systemic risk is the financial market at large. With a sound understanding of systemic risks, central
banks and the market issued a number of recommendations regarding risk management.
The Euroclear group has acquired expertise, fosters a strong risk culture and built a solid risk
management framework with the aim of minimising the risks involved in the operation of
settlement, collateral management and custody services.

Settlement risk
The major risks that can materialise during the

Both credit and liquidity risk in settlement

settlement process and affect Participants are:

transactions can lead to systemic risk, if other
Participants are unable to meet their own

•	 credit risk, resulting from the possibility

commitments following the first default or

that one of the Participants in a transaction

failed settlement. In the worst case, this can

is unable to meet its obligations. The

threaten the stability of financial markets.

main credit risk is principal risk, as both
the buyer and the seller of securities

Credit risk arises as a consequence of

are exposed to the risk of losing the full

settlement lags or asynchronous settlement.

amount of the transaction, from the
moment they initiate a securities or funds

The settlement lag is the maximum amount

transfer until settlement is completed. In

of time between the date on which a trade

addition, they incur replacement cost risk,

is executed and the date on which the trade

as they need to enter into a new contract,

is settled. The longer the settlement lag,

potentially losing any unrealised gain; and

the greater the replacement cost risk if the
transaction is not executed. The issue of lags

•	 liquidity risk, stemming from the lack of

in securities settlement has been addressed

available cash or securities when due; the

at a worldwide level. As recommended by

transaction might then settle at a later date.

CPMI IOSCO principles for Financial Market
infrastructures and by the CSD Regulation,
the settlement period of transactions has
been reduced to T+2 in October 2014.

EXK70006

5

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Asynchronous settlement refers to situations

To further reduce credit risks in securities

in which the payment and the delivery of

transactions, market participants have

the assets bought take place as two separate

introduced netting arrangements, which,

processes. As a result, the buyer of the

if legally and contractually sound, have the

securities incurs the risk of non-delivery by

advantage of reducing the need for credit

the seller. If this occurs after the payment

and the overall credit risk in the market, as

has been sent, the full principal amount of

well as reducing the size of individual market

the transaction is at risk. Similarly, the seller

participants’ balance sheets. By interposing

faces the risk of not receiving the funds due

themselves between the buyer and the seller

after the securities have been delivered. The

and becoming the sole counterparty to

introduction of Delivery-versus-Payment (DVP)

both sides of securities transactions, Central

mechanisms has eliminated the principal risk

Counterparties (CCPs) also bring similar credit

in securities transactions. For information on

risk reduction benefit to market participants.

DVP transactions, see the ‘Delivery-versusPayment’ section below.

6

EXK70007

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

Delivery-versus-Payment
(International) Central Securities Depositories

The Euroclear system used by Euroclear is

((I)CSDs) have contributed to reducing the

a Model 1 DVP system.

credit and liquidity risks involved in securities
settlement transactions through the introduction

Transactions between Euroclear Bank

of DVP mechanisms. Three broad DVP models

Participants are settled on a trade-by-trade

were defined by the Committee on Payment

basis, with simultaneous and final transfers

and Market Infrastructure (CPMI):

of cash and securities in the books of
Euroclear Bank.

•	 Model 1: systems that settle transfer
instructions for both securities and funds

Settlement over the Bridge with Clearstream

on a trade-by-trade (gross) basis, with the

also takes place according to DVP Model 1,

final (unconditional) transfer of securities

because there is simultaneous and final

from the seller to the buyer (delivery)

transfer of cash and securities between

occurring at the same time as the final

Euroclear Bank and Clearstream via the

transfer of funds from the buyer to the

mutual cash and securities accounts that each

seller (payment);

holds with the other after each exchange.
There are several exchanges each night and an

•	 Model 2: systems that settle securities

Automated Daytime Bridge during the day.

transfer instructions on a gross basis, with
the final transfer of securities from the

External transactions (i.e. transactions that

seller to the buyer (delivery) occurring

settle in a local market between a Euroclear

throughout the processing cycle, but settle

Participant and a local counterpart, which

funds transfer instructions on a net basis,

is typically a member of the local Securities

with the final transfer of funds from the

Settlement System (SSS)) follow the DVP rules

buyer to the seller (payment) occurring at

(if any) of the local market.

the end of the processing cycle;
DVP Model 1 systems often have a single
•	 Model 3: systems that settle transfer

delivery and payment intermediary, except

instructions for both securities and funds

when payments are in central bank money.

on a net basis, with the final transfers of

This is the case of the Euroclear Group CSDs.

both securities and funds occurring at the
end of the processing cycle.

Please refer to the Disclosure Frameworks of
each Euroclear (I)CSD on www.euroclear.com
for more detailed information on the DVP
models used.

EXK70008

7

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Managing the risks of the settlement institution
Euroclear has adopted a robust risk

Its risk management framework is defined in

management framework to protect its

a Risk Board policy applicable for the group

Participants from the risk of the settlement

Euroclear. It has been developed and on a fit

institution failing in its obligations. This

for purpose basis is maintained in accordance

framework ensures that any risk faced by

with best practices for risk management and

entities of the Euroclear group are managed

regulatory guidelines, including:

adequately.
•	COSO
On a yearly basis, Euroclear Senior Management

•	 ISO 31000: 2009 principles and generic

provides an assertion on the adequate
management of operational risk incidents and
risks as well as the effectiveness of the control
environment.
Euroclear’s risk management approach aims for:

(1)

guidelines for risk management
•	 ISO 27001: 2005 guidelines for Information
Security
•	 Local regulatory requirements
•	 CPMI-IOSCO Principles for Financial Market
Infrastructures

•	 the right ownership and governance

•	 European Capital Requirements Directive
Regulation

•	 a holistic approach
•	 a dynamic approach

(2)

•	 BCBS recommendations including the
International Convergence of Capital

•	 alignment with established market

Measurements and Capital Standards.

standards and regulations
•	 coverage of business-as-usual and crisis
management up to recovery and disaster.
Euroclear Group aligns its risk management
practices on a fit for purpose basis with major
recommendations from various regulatory or
industry bodies, such as:
•	 International Organisation of Securities
Commission (IOSCO)
•	G30
•	 European Securities and Markets Authority
•	 European Banking Authority
•	 European Central Bank
•	 Basel Committee for Banking Supervision
(BCBS)
•	 Local regulators.

____________
(1)

	 An internal control framework by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organisations of the Tradeway Commission

(2)

	Euroclear entities have published their Disclosure
Framework on www.euroclear.com

8

EXK70009

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The implementation
of the Basel Framework
at Euroclear
Euroclear plc is the ultimate holding company of, among others, Euroclear SA/NV, Euroclear Bank and
the Central Securities Depositories (CSDs) of the Euroclear group. Euroclear Bank is the only credit
institution in the Euroclear group: the CSDs are settlement institutions and Euroclear SA/NV is an
entity closely associated with a settlement institution. Euroclear Bank and all consolidated levels
above, as well as Euroclear Belgium and Euroclear SA/NV (stand-alone), have to comply with
the requirements formulated in the transposition of the Basel Accord into European regulation
(hereafter: “Basel Framework”).

What is the Basel Framework?
In response to the shortcomings of the Basel

Banks are offered the possibility to use different

II regulation revealed by the financial crisis,

risk measurement approaches for calculating

the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision

their capital requirements, from simple or

(BCBS) has updated during 2010 and 2011

standardised methods to elaborate models.

the Basel II framework in Basel III. The Basel
III framework has been implemented in the

These more sophisticated approaches require

European Union with effect from 1 January

the consistent understanding and use of data

2014 through a European Regulation and

collected internally by the banks.

Directive (“CRD IV”), which supersede earlier
Capital Directives.

They generally allow banks to economise
on capital, thus introducing an additional

The new elements in the regulation address

incentive to develop and apply strong risk

mainly aspects related to the quality, consistency

management methods.

and transparency of institutions’ capital base;
risk coverage, mainly in the area of counterparty

The Basel Framework differentiates between

credit risk; a leverage ratio to supplement the

three so-called pillars, which are expected to

risk-based Basel II framework; and countercyclical

be mutually reinforcing. Pillar 1 is centred

measures through capital buffers.

on the capital requirements related to the
credit, market and operational risks that

It also introduces a 30-day liquidity coverage

banks run. Under Pillar 2, banks are expected

ratio and a longer-term net stable funding

to produce their own assessment of capital

ratio, to ensure that institutions maintain a

adequacy, based on the risks that they face

sufficient stock of high quality liquid assets

in their activities, including additional risk

to cover potential liquidity gaps, and adopt a

types such as market risk in the banking book.

healthy balance between short and long-term

Pillar 2 also lays out the interaction between

funding to cover their activities.

the banks’ own assessments and the banking
supervisors’ response. Pillar 3 aims to promote

The new element of this Basel III framework

market discipline through the disclosure of

are gradually being phased in between 2014

information by institutions.

and 2018.

EXK70010

9

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Pillar 3 requirements concern the regular

Under the Basel framework, the pillar 3

disclosure of information of interest to

requirements are included in Part eight of

the market.

the European Regulation (“CRR”).

Part of the disclosure concerns risk

This publication contains Euroclear’s Pillar 3

management methods and practices, and

disclosure for 2014.

the organisation of the risk management
function. Another part is focused on, among
other things, the actual data relating to
exposures and associated capital requirements.

Pillar 1 at Euroclear
Euroclear has obtained approval from the

With respect to operational risk, Euroclear

CBFA(1) to apply the Foundation Internal

has been allowed by the CBFA to use the

Ratings-Based Approach (FIRBA) for credit risk

Advanced Measurement Approach (AMA)

under Pillar 1 as from January 2007.

for the calculation of Pillar 1 capital
requirements as from Q1 2008. Euroclear

The FIRBA is applied at the level of Euroclear

uses a hybrid approach at all consolidated

Bank and at all consolidated levels above.

levels above Euroclear Bank, by combining the

Euroclear Bank has been using an internal

AMA for Euroclear Bank with a Standardised

ratings model since 2005. Euroclear Bank

or Basic Indicator Approach for the group’s

determines the ratings of counterparties and

other entities.

Participants, and assigns its own probabilities
of default. As Euroclear Bank does not have

The Standardised Approach (TSA) and the BIA

any history of credit losses, it did not choose

are used respectively for the CSDs and the

to apply an Advanced Internal Ratings-Based

other group entities. More information on

Approach (AIRBA). More information on

operational risk management can be found

Euroclear Bank’s use of the FIRBA can be found

in the relevant chapter.

in the chapter on credit risk management.
____________
(1)

	Until 31 March 2011 the CBFA in Belgium was the main
supervisor of Euroclear Bank and the lead regulator for
Euroclear SA/NV and Euroclear plc. These responsibilities
have now been transferred to the National Bank of
Belgium (NBB).

10

EXK70011

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

Pillar 2 at Euroclear
The scope of Pillar 2 is broader than that of

which establishes common principles to

Pillar 1. The Supervisory Review Process (SRP)

determine an internal view on core equity

aims at ensuring that institutions adequately

requirements for each Euroclear group entity.

understand and manage their risks through

The ICAAP process has been implemented

dialogue with their supervisors. Under the

at the level of each entity, which states that

Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process

the sophistication of the approach should be

(ICAAP), institutions are expected to identify

determined with consideration for the size

and quantify the residual risks that they face

and risk profile of the relevant entity.

and to relate these to the level of good quality
capital needed to implement their plans. At

In addition, Euroclear delivers on a regular

the same time, the institutions’ supervisors

basis to regulators standardised reports on

will evaluate these risks under the Supervisory

risks not covered under Pillar 1 (interest

Review Evaluation Process (SREP) and assess

rate risk in the banking book, liquidity risk

the adequacy of the ICAAP. Euroclear maintains

and concentration risk on specific sectors or

an active dialogue with the regulators on

geographic areas). Information on these risks

capital levels

is also included in the Pillar 3 disclosure.

Euroclear’s documented ICAAP framework
is based on economic capital models and
includes a capital planning process. The Board
of Euroclear SA approves Euroclear’s Internal
Capital Measurement Approach (ICMA),

EXK70012 11

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Pillar 3 at Euroclear
Scope of application
Complete Pillar 3 information will be disclosed
at the highest consolidated level, Euroclear
plc. This is appropriate because Euroclear
manages the risks that it faces at group level.
In addition, specific information, mainly on
capital structure and adequacy, will be published
for Euroclear Bank, which is considered as a
significant subsidiary for the purpose of this
disclosure. Euroclear Bank is the only credit
institution of the group and, as such, is by far
the largest contributor to the credit, liquidity
and market risks faced by the group. Information
on these risks therefore mainly concern
Euroclear Bank. Specific figures for Euroclear
Bank would be very close to the figures
included in this publication, which apply to
the group as a whole.

Basis of consolidation
There are no differences in the basis of
consolidation for accounting and prudential
purposes at Euroclear.
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the
group has the power to govern the financial
and operating policies generally accompanying
a shareholding of more than one half of the
voting rights. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated
from the date that control is transferred to
the group. They are de-consolidated -from the
date that control ceases.
All subsidiaries are fully consolidated, with
the exception of the nominee companies.
The list of nominee companies can be
found in the Euroclear plc Consolidated
financial statements and Parent company
financial statements at 31 December 2014
(Consolidated financial statements)

12

EXK70013

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

Proportion of voting
Country of

rights and ordinary

Consolidated subsidiaries

incorporation

Nature of business

shares held

Caisse interprofessionelle de dépôts
et de virements de titres SA (1)

Belgium

Central Securities Depository for Belgium

100%

Calar Belgium SA/NV (2)

Belgium

Property investment

100%

EMX Company Limited (1)

United Kingdom

Dormant

100%

Euroclear SA/NV (3)

Belgium

(I)CSD holding company, ownership of share
processing platforms and delivery of shared nonoperational services

100%

Euroclear Bank SA/NV (1)

Belgium

Banking, securities settlement and
custody services

100%

Euroclear International Services Limited (4)

United Kingdom

Dormant

100%

Euroclear Finance 2 SA (2)

Luxembourg

Financing vehicle

100%

Euroclear Finland Oy (4)

Finland

Central Securities Depository for Finland

100%

Euroclear France SA (1)

France

Central Securities Depository for France

100%

Euroclear Investments

Luxembourg

Investment holding

100%

Euroclear Properties France SAS

France

Property investment

100%

Euroclear Re SA (3)

Luxembourg

Reinsurance

100%

Euroclear Sweden AB (1)

Sweden

Central Securities Depository for Sweden

100%

Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited (1)

United Kingdom

Central Securities Depository for the United
Kingdom and Ireland, and Investment-fund order
routing

100%

Nederlands Centraal Instituut voor
Giraal Effectenverkeer BV (Necigef) (1)

The Netherlands

Central Securities Depository for the Netherlands

100%

(3)

(1)	

Held through Euroclear SA/NV

(2)	

Held through Euroclear Bank SA/NV

(3)	

Held through Euroclear Investments

(4)	

Held through Euroclear SA/NV

Nederlands Interprofessioneel Effectencentrum NIEC BV (NIEC) located in the Netherlands was liquidated in December 2014.
VKI AB in Sweden, a dormant subsidiary of Euroclear Sweden AB, has been merged with Euroclear Sweden AB in December 2014.
Xtrakter Limited (TRAX trade matching and reporting) located in the United Kingdom was sold in February 2013, with a net gain
of €25,945,000.
EMX Company Limited’s investment-fund order routing business was transferred to Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited in
September 2010. The company became dormant in the course of 2014.
Source: 2014 Euroclear plc Annual Report

EXK70014 13

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

Capital mobility between Euroclear
companies
In addition to the capital requirements
imposed by local company laws, some
Euroclear companies are also subject to
regulatory capital requirements. This is the
case for Euroclear plc, Euroclear SA/NV,
Euroclear Bank consolidated levels as well as,
Euroclear SA/NV, Euroclear Bank and

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Content
Euroclear will disclose the relevant and
applicable to Euroclear information specified
in Part eight of the European Regulation
(“CRR”). As from its Pillar 3 disclosure over 2008,
Euroclear has included a chapter on liquidity
risk management, as this is an essential part
of its risk management processes.

Euroclear Belgium stand alone levels, which
are subject to the Basel Framework, as well as

Quantitative disclosures published in

for the CSDs, which, as settlement institutions,

Euroclear’s Pillar 3 report fall within the

are subject to specific local regulatory

scope of Euroclear’s internal and external

requirements. The other entities are not

verification processes, including auditing by

subject to regulatory requirements which limit

an independent auditor. This is true for the

the transfer of own funds.

disclosures that have already been published
in the annual report or in the Consolidated

At all times, Euroclear ensures that each entity

financial statements under IFRS, as well as

maintains sufficient capital to:

for the quantitative disclosures related to the
calculation of regulatory capital requirements

•	 comply with its legal and local regulatory
requirements; and
•	 allow it to continue to operate properly.
There are no other material impediments

that are communicated to the NBB on
a regular basis. Some of the qualitative
disclosures published in the Consolidated
financial statements are also reproduced in
this document.

to the transfer of own funds between
Euroclear entities.

Frequency and medium
Qualitative and quantitative information
will be disclosed yearly shortly after the
publication of the Annual Report based on
the situation at the end of the previous year.
The frequency of the disclosure might be
increased in the future to respond to market
needs. The full disclosure document is
published on www.euroclear.com.

14

EXK70015

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Capital structure
and adequacy
The NBB in Belgium is the main supervisor of Euroclear Bank and the lead regulator for Euroclear
SA/NV and Euroclear plc. In addition, individual CSDs are regulated by their own local supervisors,
which set and monitor their capital adequacy and liquidity requirements.

Composition of own funds
Euroclear plc’s total capital is divided into

The group’s policy is to maintain a strong

two Tiers: Tier 1 is essentially made up

capital base, so that an adequate relationship

of shareholders’ capital, share premium,

between total capital and the underlying risks

consolidated reserves and retained earnings,

of the group’s business exists at all times.

while Tier 2 comprises undated subordinated
loans. In accordance with capital adequacy

The table on the next page gives details of

regulations, Euroclear monitors the proportion

the total capital of both Euroclear plc and

of the Hybrid Tier 1 instrument (issued in 2005)

Euroclear Bank, which both comfortably

that can be considered as Tier 1, and

exceed their regulatory requirements.

reclassifies the remainder to Tier 2.
Goodwill and intangible fixed assets are
deducted in full from Tier 1 capital.

EXK70016 15

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The table below reconciles the composition of

As at 31 December 2014, the regulatory

regulatory capital for Euroclear plc group and

consolidation scope is identical to the

Euroclear Bank stand-alone as at 31 December

statutory consolidation scope.

2014 to the audited financial statements
in accordance with Article 2 in Commission
implementing regulation (EU) No 1423/2013.
Euroclear plc
consolidated

Euroclear Bank
stand-alone

146,592
3,369
143,223

843,505
285,497
558,008

Capital redemption reserve

462

-

Other reserves
-	 of which cash flow hedge

949,693
(280)

94,047
-

Retained earnings (2)
-	 Retained earning
-	 PY retained earning
- 	 CY retained earnings
-	 Defined benefit plan
-	 Non taxable reserve

2,147,736
2,203,365
1,948,209
255,156
(58,473)
2,844

490,043
490,043
503,511
131,892
–
–

Shareholder’s equity as per financial statements

3,244,483

1,427,595

Proposed dividend

(106,225)

–

(934,433)
280
(2,410)

(12)
–
(2,266)

2,201,695

1,425,317

98,005
(19,601)

102,505
(20,501)

31 December 2014 (€’000)
Called up share capital and share premium
-	 Share capital (1)
-	 Share premium

(2)

Regulatory adjustments
-	 Goodwill and other intangible assets
-	 Cash flow hedge
-	 Negative amounts resulting from the calculation
of expected loss amounts
Common Equity Tier 1 capital
Subordinated liabilities as per financial statements
-	 Amount not eligible under CRR

(3)

Qualifying Tier 1 instruments (4)

78,404

Qualifying Tier 2 instruments (5)
Total capital base

82,004
2,280,099

1,507,321

Any differences between total amounts and the sum of components are due to rounding.
Further details on the own fund can be found in annex.
(1)

	 Euroclear Bank’s share capital entirely subscribed and fully paid-up, represented by 70,838 registered shares without par value,
each shares representing an equal part of the capital of the Company. The shares are indivisible and the Company recognises only
one owner per share for the exercise of the rights attached to the shares.

	

Euroclear plc‘s share capital issued is fully paid, represented by 2,868,890 Ordinary shares and 500,120 ‘S’ shares.
-	 The ordinary shares have attached to them full voting, dividend and capital rights, including on a winding up but do not confer
any rights of redemption.
-	 The class S shares have attached to them voting and capital distribution rights, including on a winding up. They also entitle a
simple majority of the holders to appoint and remove a number of ‘S’ Directors. The holders of the shares are disenfranchised
from voting on the appointment of any director of the company other than an ‘S’ Director. New S shares must be offered to
holders of S shares in proportion to their existing holdings. They do not confer any rights of redemption.

(2)

	 Retained earning after appropriation and transfer for Euroclear Bank stand-alone, proposed dividend already deducted in
shareholder’s equity as par FS

(3)

	 excluding accrued interest for Euroclear plc consolidated accounts

(4)

	 Euroclear Finance 2 SA Fixed/floating rate subordinated guaranteed non-cumulative perpetual securities guaranteed on a
subordinated basis by Euroclear Bank (nominal amout EUR 300,000,000-outstanding amount- 98,100,000). For more information
see summary terms and conditions of the securities

(5)

	 Euroclear Bank SA/NV Fixed/floating rate subordinated perpetual notes (nominal amout EUR 304,500,000-outstanding amount102,600,000). For more information see terms and conditions of the notes

16

EXK70017

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

Capital adequacy
In accordance with the Basel framework, each

Euroclear Bank is assigned a AA+ credit rating

bank or banking group is required to maintain

by Fitch Ratings and a AA credit rating by

a ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets

Standard & Poor’s (S&P). In accordance with

that cannot fall under a threshold of 8%,

the Basel framework, Euroclear determines

and a ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted

regulatory capital requirements for both

assets that must exceed a threshold of 6%.

credit and operational risk.

Furthermore, as a company closely associated
with a settlement institution, Euroclear SA/

For credit risk, Euroclear uses the Foundation

NV is subject to certain specific requirements

Internal Ratings Based Approach (FIRBA). For

regarding its solvency and liquidity position.

operational risk, Euroclear is permitted by
the NBB to use the Advanced Measurement

Risk-weighted assets take into consideration

Approach (AMA) for the calculation of Pillar 1

balance sheet assets and off-balance-sheet

capital requirements. Euroclear uses a hybrid

exposures that may give rise to credit risk,

approach at all consolidated levels above

as calculated for both Euroclear Bank and

Euroclear Bank, by combining the AMA for

the group on a consolidated basis. Collateral

Euroclear Bank with a Standardised or Basic

and other eligible guarantees are taken into

Indicator Approach for the group’s other

account appropriately.

entities.
The table below sets out the group’s Tier 1
and total capital, which both comfortably
exceed the regulatory requirements.

EXK70018 17

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Euroclear plc
consolidated

Euroclear Bank
stand-alone

Total capital requirements

465,431

285,943

Capital requirements for credit, counterparty credit and

151,325

70,881

151,325
7,852
47,871
–
–
–
252

70,881
7,840
41,456
–
–
–
177

Capital requirements for equity under IRB

42,366

10,389

Other non-credit obligation assets

52,982

11,016

Capital requirements for position, foreign exchange and

25,701

798

commodity risks
- Standardised Approach (SA)
- Foreign exchange
- Commodities

25,701
25,701
–

798
798
–

288,231
2,881
61,982

214,089
–
–

223,366

214,089

173
1731

173
173

36.6%
36.6%

39.7%
37.5%

31 December 2014 (€’000)

dilution risks, and free deliveries
Internal Ratings-Based approach (IRB)
- Central governments and central banks
- Institutions
- Corporates – SME
of which: subject to SME-supporting factor
- Corporates – Specialised Lending
- Corporates – Others

Capital requirements for Operational Risk (OpR)
- OpR Basic indicator approach (BIA)
- OpR Standardised (STA) /
Alternative Standardised (ASA) approaches
- OpR Advanced measurement approaches (AMA)
Total risk exposure amount for credit valuation adjustment
- Standardised method
Capital ratios
Total
Tier 1
Any difference between total amounts and the sum of components are due to rounding.

18

EXK70019

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

Economic capital
Economic capital is the internal view on the

Euroclear Bank

amount of capital that Euroclear needs to have
in order to protect itself from unexpected

Euroclear Bank has adopted a three-step

losses resulting from the risks it faces in its

approach for the determination of its

various activities. Euroclear has an internal

economic capital.

view on the amount of capital needed by each
of its entities. Economic capital is one of the

The first step aims at quantifying the capital

main building blocks of the ICAAP under Pillar 2.

required for Euroclear Bank to maintain a
high quality credit rating, given an expected
portfolio of risks. A Value-at-Risk (VaR)

The Internal Capital Measurement
Approach

model, based on the output of Monte Carlo

The objective of the Internal Capital

In a second step, a buffer is added to ensure

Measurement Approach (ICMA) is to establish

sufficient capital remains available in more

high level principles that can be applied to all

difficult times. That buffer is sized based on

entities of the Euroclear group, to ensure they

the capital impact of a number of risk-specific

have sufficient capital to cover their risks. The

stress scenarios.

simulations, is used for this exercise.

approach is consistent across all entities of the
Euroclear group.

The chosen scenarios are approved by the
relevant governance bodies.

In particular, the ICMA explicitly sets for each
“material” entity(1) a 99.98% target confidence

In a third step, a few additional buffers are

level for the probability of not defaulting

added to cover additional, specific risks. One

over a one year horizon. This confidence level

of them is the buffer for model risk which

is consistent with the systemic importance of

provides protection against risk arising from

each material entity of the Euroclear group.

the model calibration process.

The ICMA is an essential component of
Euroclear’s Pillar 2.

____________
(1)

	 Entities which offer post-trading services (i.e. clearing,
settlement, safekeeping, order routing and other related
services) and/or support services to operate these posttrading activities are considered to be material.

EXK70020 19

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

Risk appetite and risk tolerance
A risk appetite is set, which corresponds
to the amount of risk that Euroclear Bank is
prepared to run to carry out its business. It is
set per risk type and is limited by the available
capital set annually by the Board of Euroclear
Bank for the whole portfolio of risks.
The upper tolerance level is set by the Board

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

3.	for each entity, at least two scenarios are
analysed:
(i) a scenario based on the financial
multi-year plan; and
(ii) a ‘unfavourable’ scenario based on
a pessimistic evolution of both our
business results and risk profile.

Euroclear Bank

and is determined by calculating how much the

The recommendation for the minimum

capital contribution of a risk type can increase

capital required is determined, subject

before exhausting some capital buffers.

to the following factors:
•	the Economic Capital (EC) requirement,

Capital planning
Euroclear establishes a 5-year capital plan
that is reviewed annually, taking into account
strategic developments and expected business
evolution, as well as unfavourable scenarios.

Euroclear SA/NV

determined according to the methodology
described above;
•	 the preservation of Euroclear Bank’s credit
rating;
•	the Pillar 1 capital requirements, which set
the minimum regulatory own funds (Tier 1)

The capital plan for Euroclear SA/NV (ESA)

required to cover credit, market and

is based on the following principles:

operational risks.

1.	it is assumed that during the next five years
each legal entity of the group will need to
hold enough capital to cover its own risks.
	 The ESA consolidated capital plan can thus
be viewed as the sum of individual capital
plans; it does not take diversification
benefits into account;
2.	the different constraints on the capital
are analysed for each entity and include
internal (economic capital (EC), stress
scenarios) and external (regulators, rating
agencies) views on the capital required; and

20

EXK70021

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Asset encumbrance
In accordance with Article 443 of Regulation (EU) 575/2013 (the Capital Requirements Regulation –
CRR), the below information on asset encumbrance is disclosed.

Assets
Encumbered assets

010
030
040
120

–
–
–
–

Unencumbered assets

Carrying
amount

Fair
value

Carrying
amount

Fair
value

010

040

060

090

875,952
–
875,646
306

–
–
875,646
–

Assets of the reporting institution
Equity instruments
Debt instruments
Other assets

25,092,807
175,816
2,713,357
22,203,634

–
175,816
2,713,357
–

The broad categories of asset type (column 060) are:
-	 Debt instruments (2.7 Bn or 11% of total assets): Euroclear capital and part of client end-of-day
cash positions are invested in prime European Sovereign debt
-	 Other assets (22.2 Bn or 88% of total assets)
Client end-of-day balances are also invested with high quality market counterparts, preferably
by using reverse repurchase agreements (82%).
Tangible and intangible assets (6%).

Collateral received
Fair value of
Fair value of collateral
encumbered collateral
received or own
received or own debt
debt securities
securities issued
issued available for
encumbrance
010

130
150
160
230
240

–
–
–
–
–

Collateral received by the reporting institution
Equity instruments
Debt instruments
Other collateral received
Own debt securities issued
other than own covered bonds or ABS

040

–
–
–
–
–

16,385,508
–
16,385,508
–
–

The entire collateral received results from the secured financing transactions concluded by the
Euroclear Bank Treasury department. On average, 80% of total client balances are invested in
reverse repurchase agreements where high credit and liquidity collateral criteria are required
or invested in short term and high quality securities
EXK70022 21

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Sources of encumbrance
Matching liabilities
Assets, collateral
contingent liabilities or received and own debt
securities lent
securities issued other
than covered bonds
and ABSs encumbered

010 – Carrying amount of selected financial liabilities

010

030

840,656

840,651

Activities do not lead to asset encumbrance as

The encumbrance is fully concentrated on

Euroclear plc consolidated is not involved in

Euroclear Bank SA, representing approx 95%

derivatives transactions, neither repo deals

of Euroclear plc total Balance sheet.

nor debt securities issuance. Exceptionally at
year-end, EUR 840 Mn of assets (European
Sovereign debt) is encumbered to secure an
overdraft position
at our Central Bank.

22

EXK70023

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Risk management
framework and
governance
Euroclear plays a central role in securities settlement in Europe. This confers the responsibility to
ensure that settlement takes place safely and efficiently. With that in mind, Euroclear manages
the risks that it faces conscious of its responsibilities vis-à-vis the market place. Well-functioning
settlement systems allow markets to perform their function well and resources to be allocated
rapidly where they are most necessary.

Enterprise Risk Management (ERM)
Euroclear uses the ERM framework to ensure

To manage these risks, the Board and

a coherent approach to risk management,

management set limits on the amount

with effective controls commensurate with

of risk that Euroclear entities can absorb

Euroclear’s intention to maintain a low risk

(risk tolerance) and/or are prepared to accept

profile.

(risk appetite).
Risk Management compiles its view of the

Risk register & Risk Universe
The risks that Euroclear faces in pursuing
its corporate mission are credit, liquidity,

inherent and residual risk types across the
organisation. This is represented through a
risk universe.

operational, market, business and strategic
risks. Reputation risk is not considered as risk
type on its own but more like a risk that can
arise from all the others. The impact of these
six risks on the different entities within the
group is assessed based on the assessment
and rating methodology developed by
Euroclear group.

EXK70024 23

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Credit

The risk of loss (direct or contingent) arising from the failure of a counterparty to meet
its obligations to Euroclear.

Liquidity

The risk of loss (financial or non-financial) arising from Euroclear being unable to settle
an obligation for full value when due. Liquidity risk does not imply that Euroclear is
insolvent since it may be able to settle the required debit obligations at some unspecified
time thereafter.

Operational

The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems,
or from external events. Operational risk can have a financial or a reputational impact.
Euroclear adopts the Basel II definition of operational risk which views operational risk
as an umbrella risk, encompassing:

Processing risk

The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, not related to the
risks described hereafter. This includes the indirect consequences of operational risk on
liquidity, credit and market risks, as well as relationship management risk (lack of adequate
knowledge of customers and service partners) and inadequate communication with the media,
are also included;

Accounting risk

The risk of loss arising from the failure to produce timely and accurate management
reporting and financial statements that provide a fair representation of the company’s
financial situation.

Ethical conduct, legal
and compliance risk

The risk of loss arising from a failure to:
•	 act with integrity, fairness and honesty;
•	 adapt to changes in the legal and regulatory environment;
•	 anticipate, identify, understand or comply with relevant laws and regulations;
•	 competently negotiate, implement, comply with or enforce contracts.

People Risk

The risk of loss due to failure to manage the performance of human resources adequately,
social conflicts, lack of development of competencies, lack of appropriate human resources,
inadequate management of external parties or a failure to (want to) change

Project Risk

The risk of an uncertain event or condition that, if it occurs, effects one of the project
objectives. Project risk management helps the project team to deliver the required
functionalities on time within the predefined budget in a qualitative way.

Information
and systems

The risk of loss due to loss of data integrity & information or due to system unavailability,
breach of confidentiality, lack of systems alignment to the business or inadequate information
or system support. This includes risks related to breaches in corporate security and information
security (including business continuity).

Market

The uncertainty on future earnings and on the value of assets and liabilities (on or off
balance sheet) due to changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates,equity prices or
commodity prices.

Business

The risk of revenues being different from forecast as a result of the inherent uncertainty
associated with business planning or of unanticipated changes in the nature or level of
market activity serviced by Euroclear.

Strategic

The risk of the business model not being appropriate to deliver the corporate vision
as a result of limited ability to implement internal change, external changes in the
environment in which Euroclear operates or the inherent uncertainty associated with
business planning over a medium to long-term horizon.

24

EXK70025

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

Control objectives

This cascade of control objectives and controls
are the foundation of Euroclear’s Internal

High Level Control Objectives (HLCO) establish

Control Environment (ICS).

senior management accountability for settingup a system of internal controls to mitigate

Risk Management offers guidance and tools

the risks of the Risk Register. They set the

to support the roll-out of the controls under-

expectation on the level of internal control in

pinning these control objectives. Business

each entity and division of the group.

management maintains tools to link the
controls with the control objectives and

The HLCOs are complemented by more

monitoring activity, aiming at building a

detailed Control Objectives. The latter are

sound and complete control environment.

established by business management and are

Line management highlight missing or

aligned to the mission of each business unit.

ineffective controls and help to ensure the

They set control objectives linked to their core

completeness of the action plans necessary

processes and deliverables. Finally, they are

to close control gaps.

cascaded in controls and control processes,
designed by the business and describing how
the risks impacting business activities are to
be mitigated.

EXK70026 25

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

COSO

Credit Risk

1

Euroclear manages its credit risks in line with the
company's risk appetite and policies.

Head of Banking

Operations

Liquidity Risk

2

Euroclear manages its liquidity risks in line with the
company's risk appetite and policies.

Head of Banking

Operations

Legal&Compliance,
Ethical Conduct

3

Euroclear manages its legal, regulatory and contractual
obligations and rights properly.

Head of Legal &
LMT CEOs

Compliance

People

4

Euroclear manages its human resources in such a way
as to allow it to manage appropriately its risks.

Heads of HR

Operations

5

Euroclear delivers operational services that meet clients'
expectations and maintains robust service resilience.

Heads of
Operations

Operations

6

Euroclear has an Enterprise Risk Management (ERM)
framework in place that helps risk owners take decisions
in line with the company's risk appetite.

Head of Risk
Management

Operations

7

Euroclear operates its systems to achieve defined service
levels appropriate to the business application.

Head of CT

Operations

Project Risk

8

Euroclear manages appropriately its roadmap project risks,
seeking to deliver projects within budget, scope and on
time with the required quality.Changes in budget / scope/
timing follow appropriate governance rules.

Head of Project
Delivery

Operations

Accounting

9

Euroclear's financial, prudential and management
reporting processes adhere to regulatory requirements
and generally accepted standards.

Head of Financial

(Financial
Reporting)

10

Euroclear manages its market risks in line with the
company's risk appetite and policies.

Head of Banking

Operations

11

Euroclear maintains its financial strength to ensure
sustainability and competitiveness, including through
appropriate cost focus.

Head of Financial

Operations

12

Euroclear sets business objectives consistent with the
multi-year plan, monitors its implementation, and takes
adequate corrective action when needed.

Head of Product
Management

Operations

13

Euroclear's strategic plan and objectives derived from that
Head of Strategy
plan are communicated clearly and progress is monitored.

Strategy

Euroclear's division heads are aware of their responsibilities Each MC member
and are accountable for the results of their division.
/ Each DH

Strategy

Process

Operational Risk
Systems &
Technology

Market Risk
Risks related to the environment
we operate in

Control Objective

Business Risk

ReportingHead of Internal Audit

Risks related to the provision of our services

Control Objective

Internal Audit provides reasonable assurance, in an independent and objective way,
on the adequacy and effectiveness of the group’s system of internal controls.

Euroclear’s Strategy

Strategic Risk
14

ERM Static: Strategy - Governance - Culture
ERM Dynamic: Identification, Assessment, Measurement - Risk Response - Reporting - Monitoring

26

15

EXK70027

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

Three lines of defense

Assurance and Control Effectiveness

In line with best market practice, Euroclear

This three lines of defense set-up is a

has adopted a three lines of defence model.

cornerstone of the ERM framework: first line

The allocation of responsibilities within

management provides the assurance on the

Euroclear’s three lines of defence model is:

adequacy and effectiveness of the control

•	 1st line of defence:
Line Management identify, define and
operate the control environment to help
them achieve their business objectives. Line
Management control the risks that would
prevent them from achieving these.
-	 They document and demonstrate the
control environment.
-	 They report and escalate risks or control
weaknesses which can prevent them of
reaching their objectives.
-	 They involve control functions such as
Risk Management or Compliance and
Ethics to support them.
•	 2nd line of defence:
-	 Risk Management
•	They

define the control environment

environment and the second and third lines
of defence fulfil afterwards their mission
by confirming, nuancing or infirming the
assurance provided by first line management.
Positive Assurance reports (PAR) enable
first line management to demonstrate that
controls are adequate and effective. PAR
have been deployed at entity/divisional
level and, where relevant, at departmental
level. They link business objectives through
to control objectives, control activities, and
forms of evidences. By keeping track of the
main expected internal and external change
factors, they allow first line management
to timely maintain the adequacy of the
control environment when expected changes
materialise.

framework in line with regulations
and internal policies.
•	They

monitor the Risk and Internal

The conclusions of these individual PARs
are consolidated and summarised in a

Control environment in a changing

Group Assurance Map (AM). The AM is

internal and external environment

a juxtaposition of assurance provision by

•	They

report, challenge management

the three lines of defence and includes

or escalate to management risks or

the possible key control gaps. Next to first

control defects.

line management’s assessment, the second

support the business and gives its

and third lines of defence will report their

independent view of the effectiveness

own independent assessments, confirming,

of the controls to implement remedial

nuancing or infirming first line management’s

actions.

views. The AM is thus a reporting tool for

•	They

-	 Compliance monitor, test and report

the Group Risk Committee, the Management

to management on controls relating

Committee and the Board, allowing a

to laws and regulations and advice on

frequent, effective and comprehensive

remedial actions.

monitoring of the control environment.

•	 3rd line of defence: Internal Audit
independently review and test the control
framework and report to management
about the adequacy and effectiveness of
the control environment.
EXK70028 27

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Risk monitoring through selfassessments

Risk Assessment and Measurement

Control objectives are assessed continuously

which proactively identifies risks and control

as part of the bottom-up business control and

weaknesses, as opposed to the reactive

monitoring processes, reported and discussed

logging of risks.

Euroclear encourages an environment

in management performance meetings at
different levels in the organisation (from team

Among other things, the daily monitoring

meetings to reviews by the operational risk

of key risk and key performance indicators

committees and management committees of

(KRIs and KPIs), the systematic risk assessments

the group).

associated with the new product or service
approval process, and self-assessment

They are also collectively reviewed top-down

processes contribute to facilitating pro-active

through the regular PAR self-assessments.

identification.

At least once a year, they are performed
with the right mix of people around the

In addition, Risk Management performs pro-

table (different layers in the organisation,

active risk assessments on selected topics and

representatives of quality assurance teams, Risk

reports the outcome to management.

Management, and any other relevant party).
Together with the systematic availability of

Euroclear has developed an assessment

comprehensive material this enables reflection

and rating methodology which enables

and step-back.

operational risks to be classified according
to their impact on the risk profile of the

Through workshops these self-assessments aim

relevant business areas or Euroclear entities.

to achieve the following objectives:

Determining the criticality of other risks also
entails an assessment of their potential impact

•	 build an accurate and consistent

on Euroclear’s risk profile.

assessment of the ICS, i.e. to achieve a
good understanding of the risk profile of
the business;
•	 increase risk awareness and promote an
ongoing assessment of risks and controls
by business managers;
•	 identify new risks ;
•	 ensure that individual risks in the ICS are
identified proactively and that they are
addressed adequately; and
•	 help management make a well-founded
statement on the effectiveness of the ICS.

28

EXK70029

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

Risk appetite

•	 Transfer / Insure / Hedge – business owners
can transfer a risk to a third party, typically

A risk appetite is set, which corresponds to the

through insurance. Euroclear has a group

amount of risk that Euroclear Group is willing

insurance programme that covers most

to take to deliver its business objectives. It is

insurable risks. Situations are tracked

set by entity per risk type.

where risk exposures can be transferred
to a third party via insurance or a hedge

Risk response
There are four different ways in which
business management can respond to risks.
•	 Mitigate – mitigating risks entails reducing
the likelihood that they materialise or
reducing their potential impact. This can be
done e.g. by adding controls or, in the case
of credit risk, by making use of collateral.
When risks are identified, mitigating action
plans and their target dates are all logged.
The business areas are responsible for
developing solutions to mitigate risks
effectively, with Risk Management providing
advise for material risks. The successful
implementation of these mitigating actions
is monitored through KPI reporting and
RCSAs. The time allowed for mitigating
risks is commensurate with the impact of
the risk.
•	 Accept – risks can be accepted when for

at corporate level, e.g. hedges to cover
interest rate or foreign exchange risks. In
cases where such a transfer is not possible,
other business resilience measures are
considered.
•	 Avoid – risks are avoided if Euroclear opts
not to engage in certain activities (e.g.
particular transactions, credit provision,
and the launch of a new product or service)
or to change its business model, because
the risk of having large losses exceeds the
risk appetite for any relevant risk type.
Euroclear aims to implement the framework
consistently across the group. Detailed
implementation may vary to reflect each
entity’s specificities (e.g. its size, local
regulatory requirements etc.).
Specific information on the risk management
of credit, market, liquidity and operational
risks is provided separately in the report.

instance the costs required to mitigate the
risk outweigh the benefits. The decision
to accept a risk is made by the business
owners and is a formal process to re-certify
all accepted risks regularly.

EXK70030 29

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Governance
Euroclear plc

-	 the effectiveness of internal controls

The Board of Directors is the ultimate decision

-	 the independence, accountability and

and risk management systems; and
making body of Euroclear plc. In order to

effectiveness of the External Auditor.

perform its responsibilities more efficiently, the
Board has established the following committees:

•	the Nomination and Governance Committee

an Audit Committee, a Nominations and

assists and advises the Board of Directors in

Governance Committee, a Remuneration

the following matters as they apply to the

Committee and an Operations Committee.

Company, namely:
-	 the nomination of Board and

Euroclear SA/NV
The Board of Directors is the ultimate decision
making body of Euroclear SA/NV. The Board
of Directors overarching responsibilities is to
define and oversee the implementation of
the strategy and objectives of the Company,
as well as the risk policies (including the risk
tolerance levels of the Company), and to
supervise management. The Board of Directors
is advised on risk related topics by the
following committees, which are exclusively
composed of non-executive directors:
•	the Risk Committee assists the Board
of Directors in fulfilling its oversight
responsibilities of the Group’s:
-	 risk management governance structure,
including policies;
-	 risk tolerance, appetite and strategy;
and
-	 management of key risks as well as the
process for monitoring and mitigating
such risks.
•	the Audit Committee assists the Board
of Directors in fulfilling its oversight

Management Committee members;
-	 Board and Committee composition;
-	 succession planning; and
-	 corporate governance matters.
•	The Remuneration Committee assists the
Board of Directors:
-	 in defining the global compensation
philosophy for the Group;
-	 in ensuring that the members of the
Management Committee, the nonexecutive directors and the members of
the Board committees are compensated
in accordance with the Euroclear
Compensation policy; and
-	 In advising, as appropriate, the subsidiary
companies on relevant matters arising
out of the Compensation policy.
The Euroclear SA/NV Board also established
a Management Committee with decision
making authority and entrusted it with the
general management of the Company with
the exception of setting the strategy and
general policy and other powers reserved
to the Board or the Shareholders by law or
by the Articles.

responsibilities for the Company, including
its branches and subsidiaries, with respect to:
-	 the quality and integrity of the accounting,
auditing and reporting practises of the
Company (stand-alone basis) and the
Group (consolidated basis);

30

EXK70031

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

The Euroclear SA/NV Management Committee

The Board of Directors of each of the (I)CSD’s

is advised on risk related matters by:

also established a Management Committee(1) or

•	 the Group Risk Committee whose main
role is to maintain a holistic and structured
view of the main risks of the Group and
to ensure that these are actively managed.
The Group Risk Committee monitors the
evolution of the risk profile and control
environment, reviews and approves Risk
and Compliance related assessments and
frameworks (incl. policies), and advises and/
or escalates to the Management Committee
if needed. The Group Risk Committee
approves Management Resolutions and
advises on Board Policies and validates
material assumptions related to the

Executive Committee with decision making
authority and entrusted it with the general
management of the entity within the strategy
and general policy decided by the Board, and to
implement such strategy and general policy.(2)
The composition and terms of reference of
the Board and Board Committees have been
posted on www.euroclear.com. The Management Committee or Executive Committee has
set up several internal committees providing
advise on risk related matters:
•	 the Risk, (Local Security) & Operating
Committee, which reviews the risks

operational risk models, as well as risk

introduced by new services or products and

assessments.

monitors the evolution of the risk profile
and control environment. This includes the

•	 the ESA Credit and Assets and Liabilities

risk review of operational issues, financial

Committee, whose main role is to advise

exposures, reputation, business continuity

on dividend proposals, capital restructuring

matters, local security, compliance and

proposals, capital planning, funding

issues arising during the implementation

proposals, investment policy, hedging

phase of new projects as well as the impact

policy, financial policy and stress testing

of such issues on the economic capital and

for Euroclear SA/NV, the group and the

proposes risk mitigation actions. It also

CSDs regarding the financial plan, capital

monitors the service level management of

requirements and liquidity and cash

outsourced services.

requirements.

•	 the Group Risk Committee – please refer to
equivalent section under Euroclear SA/NV.

Euroclear (I)CSDs
Each Euroclear (I)CSD of the Group has a Board
of Directors as their ultimate decision making
body. Each Board of Directors’ overarching
responsibilities are to define and oversee the
implementation of the strategy and objectives of
the (I)CSD, as well as the risk policies (including
the risk tolerance levels of the (I)CSD), and to
supervise the (I)CSD’s management. These Board
of Directors have established committees
advising them on risk related topics (along the
lines of those established by Euroclear SA/NV).

____________
(1)

	 Naming, structure and objectives of committees
may differ by entity, to adapt to local needs.

(2)

	 For Euroclear Sweden and Euroclear Finland, the
Chief Executive Officer has been given the authority
to manage the day-to-day operations, supported
by the Executive Committee to manage both entities
in a coordinated manner.

EXK70032 31

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

•	 the Credit and Assets and Liabilities

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Management implements an approach which

Committee (for Euroclear Bank), which

enables the identification and understanding

evaluates the short and long term impact of

of all material current and prospective

strategic matters of credit and treasury on

risks and the management of appropriate

the Bank’s reputation, financial performance

responses.

and shareholder’s equity and also advises
on policy matters and key assumptions and

This is done by providing a coherent effective

parameters used in the credit risk and asset

framework, suitable training, useful tools,

& liability.

expert impartial advice, timely risk assessments,
escalation of material risk issues, informed

•	 the Group Admission Committee (for
Euroclear Bank and the ESES CSDs), which

relevant reporting, all of which enable risks
to be managed well.

reviews the new client profiles and their
impact on the overall business portfolio

More specifically, Risk Management develops

and recommends on new client admission

and oversees appropriate risk management

requests. This committee also proposes

policies and procedures and advises on related

possible changes to the clients’ admission

risk activities. Risk Management is responsible

criteria and reviews the ongoing compliance

for the following generic types of activity for

of clients vis-à-vis the admission criteria.

each of the risks it covers:

These committees also propose relevant

•	 risk policy setting

policy changes.
•	 risk assessment & measurement; i.e.
tools and methods for risk definition

Other Euroclear entities
For the CSDs of the Euroclear group, risk
committees are responsible for monitoring
(potential) risks faced by each entity and
advising local management teams with
regard to risk matters, like the ESES Risk and
Operating Committee.

and measurement; identification and
assessment of the various risk exposures,
their likelihood of occurrence and their
impact
•	 expert, impartial risk advice
•	 risk monitoring; i.e. follow up of exceptions,
action plans, new products and changes in

Risk management responsibilities
To ensure a consistent risk-management
approach across all entities, Euroclear has
organised its risk management function at
parent company level.
Euroclear SA/NV Risk Management provides
independent assurance that the relevant risks
taken to reach Euroclear’s vision are identified
and controlled within the risk appetite. Risk

32

risk exposure, oversight over the various risk
areas and reporting to the appropriate levels.
Risk Management operates independently
from the business lines they monitor. It is
headed by a Chief Risk Officer (CRO) who
has a dual reporting line to the CEO and the
Chairman of the ESA Risk Committee. The
CRO is also a member of the Euroclear Bank
Management Committee and the Euroclear
SA/NV Management Committee.

EXK70033

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

The performance of the CRO is reviewed by the
Risk Committee who makes recommendations
on the CRO remuneration to the Remuneration
Committee. The independence of the CRO

Reporting and Escalation
At least quarterly, Risk Management reports
formally to the management teams and audit
and risk committees of all entities, detailing

is reinforced through his direct access to the

the status and trend of the risk profile and

Chairman and the members of the Audit and

commenting on the key risks.

Risk Committee.

With the same frequency, the CRO reports his

Corporate risk managers have been assigned

view on the Group Risk Profile, summarising

to address the risks of each Euroclear entity.

the key risks at group level, to the Euroclear

In addition, specialised risk functions are

SA/NV Management Committee and to the

dedicated to information security, business

Euroclear SA/NV Risk Committee.

continuity, recovery and resolution planning
scenario analysis and banking risks. A Capital

In addition, Risk Management will escalate

modelling team calculates regulatory and

immediately to the appropriate level material

economic capital requirements for senior

risk issues when, in its opinion, either a new

management and the Board of Directors.

risk emerges or mitigating actions for an
existing risk have been insufficient in scope
and/or resolution time.

Euroclear Bank Committee Structure
(Committees related to risk management only)
Board of Directors

Audit and Risk Committee

Risk, Local Security &
Operating Committee
•	 Oversees operational risk
•	 Carries out risk assessment
of new products
•	 Proposes risk mitigation
actions

Management Committee

Credit and Assets and Liabilities Committee

•	 Oversees quality of credit
portfolio
•	 Oversees allocation of
credit capacity in line
with risk appetite

•	 Oversees liquidity and
funding risk
•	 Oversees interest rate and
foreign exchange risk
•	 Approves new treasury
products

Risk Committee makes recommendations as an advisor to the Euroclear Bank Board regarding risk matters

EXK70034 33

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

34

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXK70035

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Credit risk
management
Credit risk is the risk of loss (direct or contingent) arising from the default or failure of a Participant
or counterparty to meet its obligations to Euroclear. The degree of credit risk depends on the credit
standing of the Participant or counterparty and on the duration, amount and nature of the exposure
that Euroclear has on that Participant or counterparty.

Strategies and processes
for credit risk management
Euroclear Bank

Additionally, Euroclear Bank applies very strict
collateralisation rules in quality and quantity.

Credit decisions are made at the discretion of

This results in average collateralisation levels,

Euroclear Bank, which accepts credit risk only

for its client exposure above 99%.

within its risk appetite. The risk appetite for
credit risk in Euroclear Bank is limited by:

Euroclear Bank also has treasury exposures

• 	 the available capital allocated annually for

resulting from Participants’ end-of-day

credit risk by the Euroclear Bank Board;

cash balances. Such positions are usually
re-deposited in the market with high quality

• 	 regulatory limits - caps - including risk

counterparties. Where possible reverse repos

concentration limits and capital adequacy

are used, but some limited exposure remains

ratios; and

unsecured. The risks are limited by their short
duration (mainly overnight), as well as by

• 	 internal limits, for example, credit, country

policy limits.

or treasury limits.
To comply with the qualitative and quantitative
The risk of a credit loss for Euroclear Bank

requirements of Basel, Euroclear Bank uses an

is very low and Euroclear Bank has never

internal rating model. The model allows credit

suffered a credit loss in its entire history,

officers to rate all Participants, counterparties

not even during the period of market turmoil.

and all the countries where Euroclear Bank

This is largely due to the uncommitted nature

has credit exposure.

and the very short duration of the credit
exposure which, in general, is intra-day.

EXK70036 35

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Short-term credit provision by Euroclear Bank
Euroclear Bank extends short-term credit to
its Participants to facilitate the settlement of
securities transactions. When the buyer does
not have sufficient cash in its account to settle
a transaction, temporary credit is extended,
allowing settlement to take place efficiently.
Such credit extensions, which create ‘operating
exposure’, can occur when:
•	 Participants do not hold their cash reserves
in Euroclear Bank; and/or
•	 There are structural time lags in the flow of
funds as a result of time-zone differences and
differences in operating hours of the various
intermediaries involved in the payments.
In other words, operating exposure results from
temporary mismatches between incoming and
outgoing funds on a Participant’s account.
Outgoing cash flows can:
•	 Fund purchases of securities within the
Euroclear system;
•	 Fund cross-border receipts of securities; or
•	 Be sent out of the Euroclear system in the
form of wire transfers.
Incoming funds can come from:

Credit facilities for Euroclear Bank
Participants
Euroclear Bank may offer credit facilities to
Participants on an uncommitted basis. Such
facilities are always multi-currency and multipurpose and can be reduced or withdrawn at
any time, without notice. Credit officers within
the Credit department determine whether or
not credit facilities can be offered to a given
Participant, and the size of such facilities. The
size of the credit facilities is reviewed annually.
Participants may receive temporary credit in
excess of their credit facilities, upon appropriate
approvals. The objective of the temporary credit
is to unblock transactions that would otherwise
prevent the settlement of a chain of transactions,
which could result in liquidity risks for Euroclear
Participants. Such additional credit thus contains
systemic risk.
Euroclear Bank limits the aggregate operating
exposure to any family of Participants, as explained
in the chapter on Liquidity risk management.
Participants that benefit from credit facilities are
required to execute special credit documentation
with Euroclear Bank. More information on this
can be found in the chapter on Operational risk
management.

•	 Sales of securities within the Euroclear system;
•	 Cross-border deliveries of securities; and
•	 Credit on Participants accounts from external
intermediaries.
Generally, the duration of operating exposure
is less than 24 hours (i.e. intraday). The duration
varies with the sources of exposure and funding.
Participants for which cash flows are mainly
driven by purchases and sales within the
Euroclear system in a back-to-back mode,
need credit only for a few milliseconds, to
allow the transactions to settle. Operating
exposure that needs to be funded by either
cross-border deliveries or credits on Participant
accounts from external intermediaries tends
to last longer, up to several hours. Only in
unforeseen circumstances (primarily as the result
of settlement failures or delayed credits) can part
of the operating exposure become an end-of-day
overdraft retained in the books of the bank until
the next day.

36

Credit facilities are primarily used for the
following purposes:
•	 Intraday cash borrowing: Use of credit can
allow for securities settlement without the
need for pre-funding accounts.
•	 Commitments in connection with local
market settlements: Euroclear Bank may
extend credit to Participants to facilitate local
market settlements, as from when it sends
instructions to the local market for either
matching or settlement purposes.

EXK70037

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

•	 Securities borrowing: Participants must have
credit arrangements in place with Euroclear
Bank as a prerequisite to borrowing securities
through the Euroclear Securities Lending
and Borrowing Programme. A securities
borrowing constitutes an extension of credit
to a borrower, to cover the guarantee given
by Euroclear Bank to the lender that it will be
reimbursed. Securities borrowings are subject
to a cap set per Participant.
•	 General Collateral Access (GCA):
Participants must have credit arrangements
in place with Euroclear Bank as a prerequisite
to borrowing securities through the General
Collateral Access Programme. A securities
borrowing constitutes an extension of credit
to a borrower, to cover the guarantee given
by Euroclear Bank to the lender that it will be
reimbursed. Securities borrowings are subject
to a separate credit line set per Participant.

Credit exposures to other counterparties
In addition to the operating exposure on
Participants, Euroclear Bank is exposed to
financial institutions as a result of regular
treasury operations, including:
•	 the placements of funds at end-of-day in the
market: though Euroclear Bank makes regular
use of reverse repos, some of its treasury
exposure is unsecured. This type of exposure
is usually very short-term;
•	 the Investment and Treasury Book: Treasury
can invest in highly rated securities;
•	 short/medium-term derivative transactions:
Euroclear Bank faces counterparty credit risk
when it buys options or enters into forex
forwards contracts to hedge its foreign
exchange and interest rate exposures. More
information on this can be found in the
chapter on Market risk management; and
•	 foreign exchange transactions: as an
institution located in multiple countries and
active in many markets, Euroclear Bank needs
to conduct foreign exchange operations,
including FX swaps. Such transactions expose
Euroclear Bank to settlement risk.
These credit exposures are limited by specific
facilities for market transactions. Additionally,
aggregate unsecured exposures to any family
of Participants and/or counterparties are
expected to remain within the limits set by
the Board of Directors.
Credit officers within the credit department
determine whether or not market facilities can
be offered to a given counterparty, and the size
of such facilities. Voluntary exposure on noninvestment grade counterparties is not allowed.

EXK70038 37

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

The Euroclear CSDs

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Euroclear SA/NV and Euroclear Belgium, both
located in Belgium, are subject to capital

As their transactions settle in central bank

adequacy regulations equivalent to those

money, the CSDs have no direct cash

applicable to Euroclear Bank. This stems

relationship with their clients. Consequently,

from their regulatory status, as a settlement

they cannot extend loans or credit facilities to

institution for Euroclear Belgium, and as

their customers. The CSDs can potentially face

a company closely related to a settlement

a low level of credit risk arising from the non-

institution for Euroclear SA/NV. Consequently,

payment of fees by their clients. These are

both entities have to make sure that they do

limited amounts, considering both the

not breach the same concentration limits as

frequency of the billing and their relatively

defined above for Euroclear Bank.

broad customer base. Each CSD of the group is
required by its home regulator to hold enough

In order to mitigate their concentration risk,

liquidity to cover such risks. As a result, the

Euroclear SA/NV and Euroclear Belgium invest

group CSDs are exposed to the credit risk

their cash surplus with a minimum of two

related to the reinvestment of their cash

external counterparties. Euroclear policy

position (being held for regulatory purposes

applies this approach to other group CSDs,

or not) with their bank counterparties.

even though they are not subject to the same
capital adequacy rules.

To limit the credit risk taken on such counterparties, the banks that are considered for
these investments should at least have a
rating in the A-range, with investment

Rating concentration
of financial assets

maturities not exceeding 3 years.
Respectively 98% and 99% of the settlement
and treasury exposures of Euroclear Bank were

Concentration risk

taken on investment grade Participants and
counterparties. In addition, on average more

Concentration limits are set to ensure that

than 99% of the settlement exposure is secured

the group does not take too large exposures

and most of this exposure is intra-day. Therefore,

on too few Participants or counterparties.

there are no expected credit losses and no

European and Belgian banking regulations

impairment provision has ever been required.

also impose risk concentration limits that
have to be respected for each applicable

As for the exposure taken on its investment

exposure. Individual exposures above 25% of

and treasury books, Euroclear Bank follows a

the own funds (Tier 1 + Tier 2 – deductions)

conservative approach. Any security held in

are reported as breaches under the large

the investment book, which in IFRS terms is to

exposures regulation.

be understood as all fixed income securities
belonging to the available-for-sale portfolio,
needs to have a credit rating equal to, or
greater than, AA-.
In December 2014, 100% of the securities held
by Euroclear Bank were rated AA or above.

38

EXK70039

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

Credit exposures
Standardised approach

Internal ratings-based approach

Euroclear applies the standardised approach

For credit risk, the FIRBA is used for Euroclear

at the level of Euroclear SA/NV stand-alone,

Bank stand-alone and consolidated, Euroclear

and at the level of Euroclear Belgium, as these

SA/NV consolidated and Euroclear plc

entities bear very little credit risk. For these

consolidated. Euroclear makes its own

entities, there is no intention to evolve towards

judgements about the ratings of counterparties

an Internal Ratings-Based (IRB) approach in the

and Participants, and assigns its own

short term, though this might be reassessed

probabilities of default. This gives significant

at a later stage, if deemed necessary.

capital benefits compared to the standardised
approach. The AIRBA would have required the

For exposures that can be allocated to specific

use of internal Loss-Given-Default statistics,

counterparties, Euroclear makes use of

which Euroclear does not have, as it has not

external ratings from the three major rating

incurred any credit loss to date.

agencies, Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch. Euroclear uses the standard association

Euroclear Bank has been authorised by the

published by EBA to map the external credit

NBB to use a maturity-adjustment factor

ratings to the credit quality steps. The

in its model, to account for the very short

external ratings are used for the limited credit

durations of its exposures. At 14 days, this

exposure these entities have to corporates,

maturity adjustment factor has been chosen

institutions and equity.

very conservatively to reflect the delays that
Euroclear would face when trying to realise
the collateral of a defaulting Participant.
The maturity adjustment factor is not used
for exposures with a clearly defined or
longer maturity (e.g. derivatives contracts or
investments held in the investment book).
The table on the next page shows total and
average exposures under the FIRBA.

EXK70040 39

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Euroclear plc consolidated and
Euroclear SA/NV consolidated(1)

31 December 2014 (€’000)

Total
exposures

Central governments
and central banks

Institutions

Corporates

Total gross credit exposures

44,740,304

5,633,987

39,045,417

60,900

44,667,020

5,633,987

38,906,133

72,900

44,140,600

5,694,529

37,868,525

577,546

Euroclear plc
Total gross credit exposures
Euroclear SA/NV
Average gross credit
exposures Euroclear SA/NV(2)
(1)

	 Any difference between total amounts and the sum of components are due to rounding.

(2)

	 Average gross exposure is based on four data points taken at the end of each quarter. There are some important fluctuations
in the data. Figures for Euroclear plc are only available for Q2 and Q4; the resulting average would be less accurate.

The table below provides information on

The geographical regions are those in which

the geographical concentration of exposures,

Euroclear Participants or counterparties are

before credit risk mitigation, which are mostly

located. Cash is always classified under the

concentrated in (Western) Europe and North

country of the issuing central bank.

America.

Geographical concentration of credit exposures
Euroclear plc consolidated(1)

31 December 2014 (€’000)

Total
exposures

Central governments
and central banks

Institutions

Corporates

European Union
Other Europe(3)
North America
Central and South America
Asia
Middle East
Africa
Oceania
Other
Total

42,178,123
29,033
863,111
122,787
1,398,075
68,763
3,765
76,572
76
44,740,304

5,366,804
–
5
0
0
177
–
0
–
5,633,987

36,491,596
29,033
862,472
122,777
1,390,564
68,578
3,750
76,572
76
39,045,417

52,723
–
634
10
7,511
8
15
–
–

(1)	

(2)

Any difference between total amounts and the sum of components are due to rounding. The classification of countries does not
correspond to the Consolidated financial statements, where e.g. The Americas encompasses fewer countries than here the total of
North and Central and South America.
	Including Turkey.

40

EXK70041

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

Given Euroclear’s role as a provider of post-

The table below provides information on

trade commoditised services to financial

the residual contract maturity breakdown of

markets, its exposures are highly concentrated

the entire portfolio. Most exposures are very

on the financial sector and it does not incur

short-term, generally one day.

exposures to non-financial industrial sectors.

Residual maturity breakdown of credit exposures
Euroclear plc consolidated(1)

31 December 2014 (€’000)

Total
exposures

Central governments
and central banks

Institutions

Corporates

Less than two weeks(2)
2 weeks - 1 month
1 - 6 months
6 months - 1 year
Total

35,013,213
2,766,846
6,049,158
911,087
44,740,304

3,078,595
218,005
1,936,425
400,962
5,633,987

31,873,717
2,548,841
4,112,733
510,125
39,045,417

60,900
–
–
–
60,900

(1)	

Any difference between total amounts and the sum of components are due to rounding.

(2)	

Nearly all exposures have a maturity of one day. The two weeks correspond to the maturity adjustment that Euroclear has been
allowed to use under FIRBA.

EXK70042 41

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Credit exposure on equities
Euroclear applies the simple risk weight method
to its banking book equity holdings, as the
amount and complexity of its equity holdings is
relatively limited. Under that method, a 190%
risk weight is to be applied to private equity
in a sufficiently diversified portfolio, 290% to
exchange traded equity exposure and 370% to
all other equity holdings.

The table below shows the gross exposure on
equity investments, by risk weight.

Equity exposure, simple risk weights
31 December 2014 (€’000)
Risk weight
190%
290%
370%

Euroclear plc consolidated
Total gross exposure
152,141
23,885
176,026

Other non credit-obligation assets
Euroclear applies a 100% risk weight to
exposures that are considered as non-material
and not related to its core activities. These
include other assets, accruals and tangible
fixed assets. These exposures cannot be
allocated to specific counterparties.

31 December 2014 (€’000)
Total exposures under standardised approach
On balance sheet items
Risk weight

42

The table below shows total exposures related
to non credit-obligation assets.

Euroclear plc consolidated
515,9010
515,9010
100%

EXK70043

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

Impaired exposures

The reversal shall not result in a carrying
amount of the financial asset that exceeds

Definition of past due and impaired

what the amortised cost would have been had

In accordance with IFRS 7, assets qualify as

the impairment not been recognised at the

past due when a counterparty has failed to

date the impairment is reversed.

make a payment when contractually due.
For financial assets carried at fair value, if
The group assesses at each balance sheet

there is objective evidence of the impairment

date whether there is objective evidence that

of an available-for-sale financial asset, the

a financial asset or group of financial assets

cumulative net loss (difference between

classified as held-to-maturity, available-for-

amortised acquisition cost and current fair

sale or loans and receivables is impaired.

value less any impairment loss previously

A financial asset or portfolio of financial

recognised in profit or loss) that has previously

assets is impaired or and an impairment

been recognised in equity is removed and

loss is recognised where there is objective

recognised in the income statement. If in

evidence that an event occurring after initial

a subsequent period, the fair value of an

recognition of the asset has adversely affected

available-for-sale debt instrument increases

the amount or timing of future cash flows,

and the increase can be related objectively to

and this effect can be reliably estimated.

an event occurring after recognition of the
original loss, the loss may be reversed through

For financial assets carried at amortised cost,

profit and loss. Impairments on investments in

the amount of the impairment loss is measured

equities cannot be reversed.

as the difference between the carrying amount
of the financial asset and the present value
of estimated future cash flows discounted at

Value adjustments and provisions

the original market rate of return for a similar

According to its policies, and in line with

financial asset. Cash flows relating to short-

sound banking practices and banking

term receivables (less than three months) are

regulations, Euroclear makes risk provisions

generally not discounted. Impairment losses

for credit exposures when necessary. Such

are recognised immediately in profit and loss.

provisions are made for “doubtful debt”,

If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the

i.e. loans which reimbursement is uncertain.

impairment or bad debt loss decreases and

Euroclear does not have any risk provision for

the decrease can be related objectively to an

credit exposure at present, because it does

event occurring after the recognition of the

not have any impaired assets.

original loss, the loss is reversed.

EXK70044 43

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Credit risk mitigation
Secured exposures

Use of netting

Due to the international scope of its activities

Euroclear Bank vis-à-vis its Participants

and the multi-purpose and multi-currency
nature of the credit facilities granted to its
Participants, the collateral pledged to Euroclear
Bank is not specifically attributable to any
of the different types of credit exposures
Euroclear Bank has on one Participant. This
means that all the collateral pledged from a
specific Participant is there to guarantee all
the obligations it has with Euroclear Bank

In its relationship with its Participants,
Euroclear Bank has a right of set-off upon
termination of participation or resignation of
Participants based on the Terms and Conditions
Governing Use of Euroclear. In these situations
Euroclear Bank has the right to:
(i)	 set off or retain from the amounts held

without differentiating within the nature of

by Participants in their cash accounts, any

the exposure and the original currency.

amounts that are due to, or may become
due to Euroclear Bank; and

The paragraphs below explain how Euroclear
Bank applies credit risk mitigation techniques

(ii)	retain securities held in Securities Clearance 	

to its intra-day and longer exposures.

Accounts for the payment in full of any

Appropriate credit risk mitigation has

amounts which are due to, or which may

contributed to the fact that Euroclear Bank

become due to, Euroclear Bank.

has not incurred any credit loss to date.
If a Participant has a credit line, it is also
bound by the General Conditions Governing
Extensions of Credit and the Collateral
Agreement. If such Participant is in breach of
the Collateral Agreement (event of default),
then Euroclear Bank may exercise its rights on
the collateral deposited by that Participant.
In this respect, Euroclear Bank can exercise
its right of set-off or close-out netting as
provided under Belgian law.
Participant positions are not netted on a
day-to-day basis, as Participant positions on
sub-accounts (e.g. in different currencies) are
considered separately. However, Participants
can use their cash as collateral to mitigate an
outstanding position in another currency.

44

EXK70045

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

Euroclear Bank vis-à-vis its counterparties
For its treasury activities, Euroclear Bank
enters into master agreements with its
counterparties. These agreements allow for
close-out netting of positions in case of a
counterparty default. In practice, however,
the impact of the netting of positions on the
aggregate value of these positions might be
expected to be lower than for other banks
given the limited scope of Euroclear Bank’s
activities in the market.
Nettable positions might, for example, come
from opposite treasury operations intra-day
and at end-of-day. During the day, Euroclear
Bank tries to forecast its end-of-day cash
position and, as that position tends to be
positive, generally redeposits funds into the
market. In practice, the end-of-day position
may diverge from the forecast, forcing
Euroclear Bank to cover an unexpected debit
position or to place any unexpected cash
positions it might have. In situations in which
Euroclear Bank would have attracted funds
from the market during the day and placed
funds at the end of the day, or vice versa, with
any particular counterparty, exposures on that
counterparty might be calculated in case of
default by netting the respective positions.
Euroclear Bank uses payment netting for
margin payments on its derivatives positions.
(margining is limited to interest rate futures).

Collateral valuation and
management
Intra-day credit offered to Participants is
generally secured by financial collateral or
other recourse. Every day, Euroclear Bank
assesses the collateral value of the securities
held, based on prices obtained from a number
of recognised external information providers,
whereby the most appropriate price is selected
according to the quotation selection rules.
More than 80% of securities pledged in
Euroclear Bank are priced every day or every
second day. Securities for which Euroclear Bank
does not obtain external quotations regularly
can also be valued according to the price
associated with securities transactions in the
Euroclear system, or according to theoretical
models.
In order to determine the collateral value
of securities, the (estimated) market price is
reduced by a haircut that depends on, among
other elements, the estimated market risk on
the security, the creditworthiness of the issuer
of the security, the country in which the issuer
is located, the denomination and the liquidity
risk associated with the security. The delay
since the last quotation was obtained is also
taken into account, with increasing haircuts
associated with longer delays. Securities
whose price is not considered as a real market
price are also strongly discounted. For debt
securities, accrued interest is added to the
clean price to obtain the market value, which
is used to calculate the collateral value. The
collateral valuation methodology is stresstested and back-tested yearly.
The haircuts applied in the valuation of
collateral are used in the calculation of
economic capital needs. For regulatory capital
requirements, standard supervisory haircuts
are used.

EXK70046 45

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

Types of collateral taken
As a general rule, all Euroclear Bank credit

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Credit risk mitigation and capital
requirements

facilities should be secured with CPMI-IOSCO

To calculate the effect of credit risk mitigation,

compliant recourse types. The preferred

Euroclear Bank applies the so-called

recourse type to secure the credit exposure

comprehensive approach. Collateral valuation

in Euroclear Bank is a pledge of proprietary

is based on standard supervisory haircuts, taking

collateral (cash and securities) and supported

into account holding and revaluation periods.

by standard credit documentation.
The table below shows the exposures faced
If it is not possible to obtain collateral from the

by the Euroclear group that are covered by

Participant, recourses that are non compliant

eligible financial collateral.

with CPMICPMI-IOSCO principles may be
possible like letters of credit and guarantees,

All collateralised exposures are incurred by

double claim(1) and statutory lien(2). All

Euroclear Bank and are therefore subject to

recourses must be legally valid, binding and

the FIRBA.

enforceable.

The management of (market or credit)
risk concentrations
Euroclear Bank uses collateral concentration
thresholds as risk indicators to identify
exceptional levels of specific collateral that
have an impact on the credit risk exposure
of the Bank. Particular attention is paid to
the collateral issued and/or held by noninvestment grade entities. Other dimensions
monitored concern the region and country
of the issuer, the liquidity of the collateral,
whether it is ESCB eligible, as well as the
type of security. Reaching a threshold leads
to appropriate approval and reporting
requirements.

____________
(1)

	 Exposures are double claim when they are to be covered
directly by an entity other than the one on which
Euroclear Bank has the exposure, while Euroclear Bank
also has full recourse on the latter. Such exposures can
only be called “double claim” if they are appropriately
controlled, monitored and documented.

(2)

	 A statutory lien is the right to take and hold or sell the
property of a debtor as security or payment for a debt or
duty. Belgian law grants a statutory lien to clearing and
settlement institutions on assets held by their clients.

46

EXK70047

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

Exposures (after netting) covered by (after haircuts) eligible financial collateral
Euroclear plc consolidated(1)

31 December 2014 (€’000)
Foundation Internal ratingsbased approach (FIRBA)

Total
exposures

Central governments
and central banks

Institutions

Corporates

21,714,422

75

21,676,303

38,044

Note that in the Consolidated financial statements, reverse repos, overdrafts and exposures related to securities lending and
borrowing are considered as secured. In this table, they are only considered as secured when the related collateral is eligible
under Basel II.

Only a few credit risk exposures that Euroclear

One guarantee, however, is accurately

Bank faces are covered by guarantees.

captured in the model: the letter of credit

Though these guarantees represent valid risk

issued by a syndicate of banks to cover part of

mitigation, they are not taken into account

Euroclear Bank’s exposure arising from activity

in Euroclear Bank’s calculation of regulatory

across the electronic Bridge with Clearstream

capital requirements. This leads to more

Banking Luxemburg. Euroclear Bank applies

conservative estimates of the risks incurred.

the substitution approach, when relevant.
As this information concerns an individual
Participant, the details are considered to be
confidential and will not be disclosed.

Credit risk measurement and modelling
FIRBA at Euroclear

The FIRBA is characterised by the use of
an internal ratings system and associated

The NBB has approved the use by Euroclear

probabilities of default for the calculation of an

of the FIRBA, which is applied at the levels of

institution’s capital requirements to cover the

Euroclear plc, Euroclear SA/NV consolidated,

(unexpected) credit risk it faces on its exposures.

as well as Euroclear Bank stand-alone and
consolidated. Given their simple balance-sheet

The internal ratings system should also

structure, Euroclear SA/NV stand-alone and

serve as a basis for the institution’s credit

Euroclear Belgium apply the Standardised

risk management. Though the ‘Foundation’

Approach. For these entities, there is no

approach implies an own assessment of the

intention to evolve towards an IRBA. For

risk of default of the obligor, only institutions

exposures that can be allocated to specific

under the ‘Advanced’ approach need to

counterparties, Euroclear SA/NV stand-alone

apply internal estimates of loss given default.

and Euroclear Belgium make use of external

Under FIRBA, the estimates of additional risk

ratings from the 3 major rating agencies. In

factors are derived through the application

line with Belgian law, the second-best is chosen.

of standard supervisory rules. For exposures
under the Standardised Approach, external
ratings and standard supervisory rules for
other risk factors are used.

EXK70048 47

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

The internal rating model rates all Participants

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Model governance

and counterparties granted credit or market
facilities, and all the countries where the Bank

Roles and responsibilities in respect of the

has credit exposure. The rating scale is composed

internal rating model are shared between

of 20 different rating grades and each internal

various departments of Euroclear Bank and

rating is mapped to a probability of default.

the Risk Management Division (which is part

Given Euroclear Bank’s absence of its own

of Euroclear SA/NV), ensuring an appropriate

default history, it has to use external data

independence of the controlling and

to calibrate the probabilities of default.

validation functions:

The internal ratings are used not only for

•	 The Credit department of Euroclear Bank

regulatory capital requirements calculations,

has the overall responsibility for the model.

but also serve Euroclear Bank’s own credit

It uses the model daily to assign the internal

risk management and can therefore be found

ratings. Entities are rated annually. It is

in many applications throughout the Bank.

also responsible for maintaining adequate

They are used, among others, in processes

procedures. Finally, it contributes actively,

related to the provision of (intra-day) credit

as a user, to improving the model and the

to Participants and counterparties (e.g. to

procedures and participates in the yearly

determine credit lines as well as to extend

review.

additional credit if needed on a case-by-case
basis to determine the frequency of credit line

•	 The Banking Risk function in the Risk

reviews and to put Participants on the special

Management Division is responsible for

care list, which allows for closer monitoring

controlling the use of the model. These

of lower rated Participants). They are also

controls aim at evidencing that, among

used as an essential input to Euroclear Bank’s

other things, procedures have been

economic capital model.

followed correctly (including for the
revision and approval of ratings), the

The performance of internal ratings is

ratings of groups and of components

assessed annually by comparing the internal

of these groups have been conducted

ratings to similar ratings issued by the

appropriately and entities rated Eb+ or

major rating agencies. This performance

lower are rated more frequently (twice a

review is combined with an overall review

year, compared to once a year for other

and validation of the model. The Risk

entities). More specific controls are also

Management Division is responsible for

performed, on the use of particular sub-

validating the model annually.

models, on the quality and consistency
of ratings, and on the (justification of
the) overriding of model results by credit
officers. Attention is also given to the
migration of ratings over time.

48

EXK70049

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

•	 The Credit and Assets and Liabilities

Internal rating process

Committee approves changes to the model
that are proposed by the Risk Management

Euroclear uses different models to fit the

and Banking Divisions.

particular characteristics of its different types
of Participant: banks , broker-dealers, asset

•	 The Banking Risk and Validation functions

managers, corporates, central banks and

in the Risk Management Division perform

multilateral lending institutions. Euroclear

the yearly validation, issue recommendations

Bank does not have any retail exposures or

and verify compliance. The Risk Management

significant exposure to equities.

Division also acts as necessary approver for
changes in the model.

Each Participant with a credit facility and
treasury counterparty with a market facility

•	 Finally, Internal Audit reviews independently

are assigned an internal rating that is

the processes related to the use of the

reviewed at least annually. Reviews are

model within Euroclear Bank.

more frequent for lower rated entities and
meaningful external news or external ratings
changes also trigger a reassessment of the
relevant internal ratings. Countries in which
Euroclear Bank has an exposure are also
rated once a year. The country ratings are
an important determinant of the ratings of
Euroclear Bank’s Participants.
Given Euroclear Bank’s long-standing
relationship with its Participants, the ratings
are long-term.
The table on the next page provides an
overview of the various rating categories,
and their meaning.

EXK70050 49

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Overview of Euroclear Bank’s internal rating grades
Investment grade Eaaa

Speculative

Extremely strong capacity to meet its financial commitments

Eaa+

Very strong capacity to meet its financial commitments. Upper range of ‘Eaa’ ratings

Eaa

Very strong capacity to meet its financial commitments

Eaa-

Very strong capacity to meet its financial commitments

Ea+

Strong capacity to meet its financial commitments. The Participant rated ‘A’ is somewhat more
susceptible to the adverse effects of changes in circumstances and economic conditions than
obligations in higher-rated categories. Upper range of ‘Ea’ ratings

Ea

Strong capacity to meet its financial commitments. The Participant rated ‘A’ is somewhat more
susceptible to the adverse effects of changes in circumstances and economic conditions than
obligations in higher-rated categories

Ea-

Strong capacity to meet its financial commitments. The Participant rated ‘A’ is somewhat more
susceptible to the adverse effects of changes in circumstances and economic conditions than
obligations in higher-rated categories. Lower range of ‘Ea’ ratings

Ebbb+

Adequate capacity to meet its financial commitments. However, adverse economic conditions
or changing circumstances are more likely to lead to a weakened capacity of the obligor to meet
its financial commitments. Upper range of ‘Ebbb’ ratings

Ebbb

Adequate capacity to meet its financial commitments. However, adverse economic conditions
or changing circumstances are more likely to lead to a weakened capacity of the obligor to meet
its financial commitments

Ebbb-

Conditions or changing circumstances are more likely to lead to a weakened capacity
of the obligor to meet its financial commitments. Lower range of ‘Ebbb’ rating

Ebb+

Major ongoing uncertainties or exposure to adverse business, financial, or economic conditions
which could lead to the obligor’s inadequate capacity to meet its financial commitment on the
obligation. Upper range of ‘Ebb’ ratings.

Default

50

Ebb

Major ongoing uncertainties or exposure to adverse business, financial, or economic conditions
which could lead to the obligor’s inadequate capacity to meet its financial commitment on the
obligation.

Ebb-

Major ongoing uncertainties or exposure to adverse business, financial, or economic conditions
which could lead to the obligor’s inadequate capacity to meet its financial commitment on the
obligation. Lower range of ‘Ebb’ ratings.

Eb+

Adverse business, financial, or economic conditions will likely impair the obligor’s capacity or
willingness to meet its financial commitment on the obligation. Upper range of ‘Eb’ ratings.

Eb

Adverse business, financial, or economic conditions will likely impair the obligor’s capacity or
willingness to meet its financial commitment on the obligation.obligor’s capacity or willingness
to meet its financial commitment on the obligation.

Eb-

Adverse business, financial, or economic conditions will likely impair the obligor’s capacity or
willingness to meet its financial commitment on the obligation. Lower range of ‘Eb’ ratings.

Eccc

In the event of adverse business, financial, or economic conditions, the obligor is not likely to
have the capacity to meet its financial commitment on the obligation.

Ecc

Currently highly vulnerable to non-payment.

Ec

Obligor is currently highly vulnerable to nonpayment, obligor that is the subject of a bankruptcy
petition or similar action which have not experienced a payment default.

Ed

The institution has failed to pay one or more of its financial obligations when it became due.

EXK70051

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

Estimation of exposures

Euroclear also does not use own estimates
of Loss-Given-Default (LGD), because of the

Probabilities of default are associated with

absence of a default history, but instead it

all Euroclear internal rating grades. These

applies standard supervisory LGDs. These are

are based on 28 years of external historical

45% for senior unsecured claims, 75% for

default statistics gathered by a top rating

unsecured subordinated claims and 0% for

agency, as Euroclear does not have sufficient

secured exposure after credit risk mitigation.

default history of its own. The mapping of
these default statistics to the agency’s and to

For an estimate of Exposures At Default

Euroclear’s ratings scale allows Euroclear to

(EAD), Euroclear takes the nominal amount

derive Probabilities of Default (PDs) that fit

as reflected on its books. For some facilities

its particular ratings structure.

(e.g. undrawn commitments) it includes an
estimate of future lending prior to default.

Euroclear uses the mandatory PD floor
(0,03%) for banks and corporates.

The tables on the next page shows the credit
risk exposure per PD class and the credit
exposure by relevant geographical location.

EXK70052 51

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
Euroclear plc consolidated

Total exposures(1)

31 December
2014 (€’000)
PD ranges (in %)
0.000 – < 0.006

0.006 – < 0.010

0.010 – < 0.015

0.015 – < 0.03

0.030 – < 0.038

0.038 – < 0.058

0.058 – < 0.091

0.091 – < 0.143

0.143 – < 0.224

0.224 – < 0.353

0.353 – < 0.470

0.470 – < 0.848

0.848 – < 1.531

1.531 – < 2.763

2.763 – < 4.986

4.986 – < 8.999

8.999 – < 29.317

Total

RWA
ExposureWeighted Average

(EWA) LGD

Central
governments
Total and central banks Institutions

Corporates

Total exposures
RWA
EWA LGD
Total exposures
RWA
EWA LGD
Total exposures
RWA
EWA LGD
Total exposures
RWA
EWA LGD
Total exposures
RWA
EWA LGD
Total exposures
RWA
EWA LGD
Total exposures
RWA
EWA LGD
Total exposures
RWA
EWA LGD
Total exposures
RWA
EWA LGD
Total exposures
RWA
EWA LGD
Total exposures
RWA
EWA LGD
Total exposures
RWA
EWA LGD
Total exposures
RWA
EWA LGD
Total exposures
RWA
EWA LGD
Total exposures
RWA
EWA LGD
Total exposures
RWA
EWA LGD

4.052.954
36.110
45%
1.065.126
34.057
45%
502.936
23.193
45%
10.037.819
120.792
12%
3.093.711
53.646
11%
20.650.467
123.380
4%
4.061.904
124.469
9%
843.066
7.921
2%
43.083
8.377
34%
174.305
34.936
26%
9.938
3.998
43%
192.006
119.653
42%
6.463
2
0%
1.591
1.093
31%
51
7
5%
4.883
8.056
44%

4.052.954
36.110
45%
1.065.126
34.057
45%
502.936
23.193
45%
–
–
0%
1
0
45%
–
–
0%
–
–
0%
–
–
0%
0
0
45%
12.447
4.337
45%
75
0
0%
272
161
45%
–
–
0%
–
–
0%
–
–
0%
177
296
45%

–
–
0%
–
–
0%
–
–
0%
10.037.283
120.770
12%
3.074.694
52.847
11%
20.650.463
123.379
4%
4.060.934
124.469
9%
815.498
7.921
2%
35.137
8.377
43%
161.723
30.600
24%
9.601
3.998
44%
187.607
117.161
42%
6.128
2
0%
1.591
1.093
31%
51
7
5%
4.706
7.761
44%

–
–
0%
–
–
0%
–
–
0%
535
22
45%
19.016
799
44%
5
0
45%
970
0
0%
27.569
1
0%
7.946
–
0%
135
0
0%
262
–
0%
4.128
2.331
42%
335
–
0%
–
–
0%
–
–
0%
–
–
0%

Total exposures
RWA

3
6

0
0

3
6

–
–

EWA LGD

45%

45%

45%

0%

Total exposures
RWA
EWA LGD

44.740.304
699.698
14%

5.633.987
98.155
45%

39.045.417
598.390
8%

60.900
3.153
16%

Any difference between total amounts and the sum of the components are due to rounding.
(1)

	 Total exposure: exposure at default as defined under Basel II (pre conversion factors). This does not include intraday exposure.

(2)
	 0.03% represents a floor for institutions and corporates. PD ranges for which there are no exposures do not appear in the table.
52

EXK70053

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

Economic capital for credit risk
The economic capital model for credit risk
measures, over a one year period, the amount
of capital that Euroclear Bank needs to set
aside to protect itself from bankruptcy as a
result of severe credit losses. The worst case
loss is associated with a tail probability of 0.02%,
reflecting a desired confidence level of 99.98%.

•	 The EAD is the amount of credit exposure
that Euroclear Bank could be exposed to if
an obligor were to default. A number of
different exposure types are considered in
the model and they are calculated (based
on historical data) for each Participant or
treasury counterparty.
•	 The LGD is the amount of credit exposure

The model is run monthly to ensure compliance
with the upper tolerance level set by the Board.

that could not be recovered in the event of
default. The LGD varies dependent on the
degree to which the exposures are secured

The economic capital model for credit considers
three main elements: the Expected Default
Frequency (EDF), the EAD and the LGD.
•	 The EDF is the probability that an obligor
will default on its obligations over a one
year period. Each Participant with a credit
exposure has an internal rating assigned and

(by collateral) and the level that these
collateral agreements are enforceable.
Stress tests are performed to assess the
impact on capital of extreme, but plausible,
events. Extreme scenarios are applied to key
Participants, macro-economic factors and
sensitive model parameters.

hence an associated probability of default.

Counterparty credit risk
Counterparty credit risk is defined by the Basel

This means that Euroclear Bank’s treasury

Committee on Banking Supervision as “the

operations are related to either the

risk that the counterparty to a transaction

management of Participant balances, or

could default before the final settlement of

long-term investments intended to preserve

the transaction’s cash flows. Unlike a firm’s

its capital base. In these activities, Euroclear

exposure to credit risk through a loan, where

Bank incurs counterparty credit risk only on

the exposure to credit risk is unilateral and

the treasury counterparties used to hedge

only the lending bank faces the risk of loss,

its future earnings or its currency exposures

counterparty credit risk generates a bilateral

against detrimental market movements.

risk of loss.”
Euroclear Bank does not have a trading book.
Counterparty credit risk is relevant only

Due to their purpose, and their limited scope,

for Euroclear Bank. The information below

Euroclear Bank’s hedging activities do not

therefore applies only to Euroclear Bank.

constitute trading book activities but are
included in the banking book. Hedging is

By policy, Euroclear Bank does not engage

further described in the chapter on market

in any activity that is not part of its normal

risk management.

course of business or a consequence of
Participant activity.

EXK70054 53

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

For further details on Euroclear Bank’s banking

Euroclear Bank is rated AA by Standard

book activities, and on the management of

and Poors and AA+ by Fitch Ratings. The

market risk, see the chapter on market risk

consequences of a rating downgrade on

management.

collateral demand can be considered nil, as
Euroclear Bank is structurally a collateral-

Derivatives instruments used by Euroclear

taker. Euroclear Bank needs to post collateral

Bank to hedge its future earnings are limited

only at the National Bank of Belgium to

to interest rate swaps, foreign-exchange

obtain liquidity for use in the TARGET

forward transactions, foreign exchange

system or uses collateral (through collateral

options, interest rate floors and collars, and

providers) to support its settlement in local

interest rate futures. Euroclear Bank does not

markets. Cash margin transferred to support

hold any credit derivatives nor any structured

exchange-traded futures is not material.

products, as doing this for trading purposes
would not be in line with its policy.
Counterparty credit risk is managed through
global limits at counterparty family level and
limits at individual counterparty level for all
types of exposures. These limits depend on
both the internal counterparty credit rating
and the maturity of the deal. In addition, there
are very specific restrictions on longer maturities
(longer than one year). Euroclear Bank’s
treasury activities tend to be very short term.

Wrong-way risk
Wrong-way risk occurs when exposure to a
counterparty is adversely correlated with the
credit quality of that counterparty. In the case
of general wrong-way risk, this is due to the
evolution of general market risk factors, e.g.
interest rates, while in the case of specific
wrong-way risk, it is due to the nature of the
transactions with that counterparty. Specific
wrong-way risk would arise if a transaction
with a counterparty was backed by own or
related party collateral. General or conjectural

Collateral for counterparty credit risk

wrong-way risk would arise if the evolution of
an economic variable would affect both the

Exposures to derivatives counterparties

value of exposures and the credit quality of

in exchange-traded interest rate futures

the counterparty.

transactions are managed through bilateral
margin agreements. These exposures are reset

Wrong-way risk is not a major concern for

fully on a regular basis with the transfer of

Euroclear Bank, given the limited scope of

cash margin. Margin payments may be netted.

its derivatives activity. In addition, Euroclear
Bank avoids specific wrong-way risk in its

Euroclar Bank does not take or give collateral

settlement activity as it does not, as a rule,

for OTC contracts, as Euroclear Bank enters

grant credit to Participants based on collateral

into such contracts only with high-rated

issued by themselves or related parties.

counterparties. Euroclear Bank also only acts
as buyer in option contracts, except when it
enters into caps and collars agreements, as
part of its hedging strategy, and does not face
the risk of loss. It does not hedge the
replacement cost risk, which is relatively limited.

54

Counterparty credit exposures
The table on the next page shows the gross
fair value of contracts that have been entered
into by Euroclear group.

EXK70055

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

Euroclear plc consolidated(1)

31 December 2014 (€’000)
Gross fair value of contracts
Interest rates derivatives
- Interest rate options
- Interest rate swaps
- Interest rate futures
Foreign exchange derivatives
- Forward foreign exchange instruments held for trading
- Forward foreign exchange designated as cash flow hedges
- Foreign exchange options designed as cash flow hedges
- Forward foreign exchange hedges of net investments

Assets

Liabilities

–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–

6,834
6,834

7,148
6,723
425

873

873

in a foreign operation
Stock options(1)
Netting benefits
Collateral held
Net derivatives credit exposure under the FIRBA(2)

17,286

Source: Euroclear plc Consolidated financial statements 2013.
(1)

	See Consolidated financial statements for more information on this item.

(2)

	 Expressed as exposure at default (notional value X add-on).

EXK70056 55

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

56

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXK70057

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Market risk
management
Strategies and processes for market
risk management
Euroclear Bank
The majority of market risk in the group is

Euroclear SA/NV and
the Euroclear CSDs

concentrated at Euroclear Bank. As part of the

Interest rate risk exists only to a limited extent

Market Risk Board Policy, an adequate risk

in the CSDs and in Euroclear SA/NV. Indeed, the

framework has been put in place to measure,

CSDs do not operate commercial cash accounts

monitor and control the interest rate and

but invest their cash positions in accordance

foreign exchange risk supported by Euroclear

with regulatory liquidity requirements. The

Bank. Value-at-Risk (VaR) methodologies are

duration of the investments cannot exceed

used to measure interest rate and currency risk.

three years, and the types of instruments to
be used are limited to straight overnight or

By policy, Euroclear Bank’s core equity

term deposits.

(shareholders’ equity plus retained earnings)
and subordinated debts are invested in debt

Foreign exchange risk is also very limited in

instruments rated AA- or higher. The duration

the CSDs and in Euroclear SA/NV. To avoid

of these assets is limited to five years and is

the potential foreign exchange risk that could

currently around four months.

arise from the investment of their surplus
cash, these investments can only be made in
their local currency, i.e. in EUR for entities
whose functional currency is EUR, in GBP for
the entities located in the United Kingdom,
and in SEK for the Swedish entities. The
most significant source of foreign exchange
risk stems from the potential change in net
asset values of Euroclear SA/NV’s non-euro
shareholdings (e.g. Euroclear UK & Ireland
and Euroclear Sweden, DTCC Euroclear Global
Collateral Ltd).

EXK70058 57

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

Market risk appetite
for Euroclear Bank
Market transactions are carried out at the
discretion of Euroclear Bank which accepts
market risk only within its risk appetite. The
risk appetite for market risk in Euroclear Bank
is limited by the available capital allocated
annually to market risk by the Euroclear Bank
Board. In addition, Euroclear Bank complies
with internal market limits, such as Value at
Risk (VaR), proposed by the Risk Management
Division and approved by the CALCO.
Euroclear Bank adheres to the following

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Market risk mitigation (hedging)
Given the exceptionally low level of interest
rates, and therefore the marginal downside
risk, Euroclear Bank has not entered in
interest rate hedges in 2014.
However, Euroclear Bank has engaged in
a series of forex derivative transactions in
order to hedge the foreign exchange risk
resulting from future income streams in
foreign currencies. It is compliant with market
expectations that Euroclear Bank conducts its
business prudently, as a single purpose bank.
This hedging strategy must comply with strict
guidelines:

principles relating to the management of
market risk:

•	 to be hedged, a future cash flow must be
expected with a sufficiently high level of

•	 Euroclear Bank does not engage in any

certainty;

activity that is not considered as part of
its normal business or a consequence of its
Participants’ activity and as such will not

•	 a position, once hedged, may not be
re-opened; and

engage in trading activity (even if, under
IFRS definitions, certain transactions in
derivatives do not qualify as hedges).

•	 any position above the anticipated level
must be reversed.

•	 The activities and instruments that
Euroclear Bank can engage in must be
in line with its low risk profile. Euroclear
Bank is not exposed to equity risk or to
commodity risk.
•	 A prudent investment strategy is applied
in order to preserve the core equity of
Euroclear Bank, in particular, the assets of
the investment book can only be invested
in highly rated and liquid debt instruments
(with the exception of intra-company
loans), and an appropriate hedging strategy
may be applied so as to protect future
earnings against adverse market conditions.

58

EXK70059

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

Market risk measurement
Value-at-Risk
The market risk of Euroclear Bank is measured

•	 Treasury Book: assets, liabilities and

using a VaR methodology. The VaR is the

commitments resulting from the activity

maximum loss over a determined time horizon

of the Euroclear Bank Participants.

at a given confidence level (99%). The VaR
model assumes a holding period of one day,

•	 Hedging Book: market transactions that

until positions can be closed. The market

are conducted to manage the risk exposure

parameters are derived from the volatility and

resulting from future income streams.

correlation observed either from historical
daily changes or from option prices. Euroclear

Given the low market risk appetite and the

Bank has to comply with a global VaR limit,

fact that Euroclear Bank will not engage in

as well as VaR limits by book.

trading activities, the VaR figures are low.

The market risk exposure that Euroclear Bank

The table below shows the average, as well

takes is segregated in the following books:

as the minimum and maximum VaR over 2014
and 2013 for the different books and types of
risks that Euroclear bank faces.

•	 Investment Book: all securities purchased
by Euroclear Bank with the proceeds of its
subordinated debt issues and its own equity.

The VaR model is back-tested twice a year.

Euroclear Bank SA/NV

2014 (€’000)
Investment book interest rate risk
Treasury book interest rate risk
Treasury book foreign exchange risk
Hedging book
Total VaR

minimum

average

maximum

2014
241
185
15
397

2013
181
113
20
636

2014
48
87
2
80

2013
72
39
3
48

2014
470
484
110
1,012

2013
1,163
289
119
1,713

459

689

197

89

1,014

2,000

EXK70060 59

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Economic capital for market risk

Stress tests

The internal view on Euroclear Bank’s capital

Stress tests provide an indication of the

needs is based on an economic capital model

potential size of losses that could arise under

that is continuously kept up-to-date and

extreme conditions. Stress movements are

regularly validated by an independent party.

applied to the different risk factors, including

Euroclear Bank is therefore fully confident

interest and foreign exchange rates.

that the resulting capital requirements are
adequate to support the risks that it faces.

The stress tests follow the ‘Principles for the
management and supervision of interest rate

The model covers operational and credit risks.

risk’ (July 2004) issued by the Basel Committee

In addition, Euroclear bank maintains models

on Banking Supervision.

that estimate the uncertainty on the loss
absorption capacity over a one year horizon
due to movements in market risk and business
risk factors.
This conservative approach to capital,
combined with Euroclear’s strong risk
management and effective controls, has
helped Euroclear Bank retain high credit
ratings in times of market stress.

60

EXK70061

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

Foreign exchange risk
The group’s entities have the euro as their
functional currency with the exception of
subsidiaries located in the United Kingdom
and Sweden. The Euroclear group’s structural
currency exposures can be found in the
consolidated financial statements.
The majority of the foreign exchange risk is
concentrated at Euroclear Bank. As part of the
Market Risk Board Policy, an adequate risk
framework has been put in place to measure,
monitor and control the foreign exchange risk
supported by Euroclear Bank. VaR methodologies
are used to measure the currency risk.
The foreign exchange risk is hedged through
plain vanilla foreign exchange forwards.

Capital requirements for market risk
Euroclear uses the Standardised Approach to

The table below shows regulatory capital

calculate its regulatory capital requirements

requirements for market risk:

for market risk. As Euroclear does not seek

•	 Only foreign exchange risk, which is

market risk and does not have a trading book,

calculated on all exposures, including

using the internal model approach was not

non-trading book exposures, is reflected

deemed appropriate.

in this table.
•	 Other items do not apply to Euroclear.
•	 Other market risks in the banking book
are discussed below.

31 December 2014 (€’000)
Total
Settlement risk
Position risk in traded debt instruments
Position risk in equities
Interest rate risk
FX risk
Commodity risk

Euroclear plc consolidated
25,702

25,702

EXK70062 61

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Equities in the banking book
Equities held in the banking book concern

Impairment of available for-sale

participations in companies with a business

equity investments

related to the business of Euroclear. They are
either strategic participations, or they are held
for historical reasons. None of them are held
in order to make capital gains.

The group determines that available-forsale equity investments are impaired when
there has been a significant or prolonged
decline in the fair value below its cost. This
determination of what is significant or

Valuation and accounting of equity
holdings in the banking book
Available-for-sale investments are those
financial assets including debt securities and
equity shares which are intended to be held
for an indefinite period of time, but which
may be sold in response to changes in the

prolonged requires judgement. In making this
judgement, the group evaluates among other
factors, the normal volatility in share price.
In addition, impairment may be appropriate
when there is evidence of a deterioration
in the financial health of the investee,
industry and sector performance, changes in
technology, and operational and financing

group’s financial environment.

cash flows. The group determines that

Available-for-sale investments are recognised

impaired when there is a constant decrease

in the balance sheet on settlement date at fair
value. Gains or losses arising from changes in
the fair value of such assets are recognised
directly in equity, until the asset is either
sold, matures or becomes impaired, at which
time the cumulative gain or loss previously
recognised in equity is released to the income
statement. Interest revenues are recognised

available-for-sale equity investments are
of fair value of more than 50% compared
with the fair value at inception for a period
greater than 1 year. Where appropriate, the
group has recourse to adequate valuation
techniques (e.g. discounted cash flows, market
multiples) to estimate the value of nonquoted available-for-sale equity investments.

using the effective yield method.

The table on the next page shows the fair

The fair value of listed debt securities and

Euroclear group.

value of equity investments held by the

equity shares reflects the published price
at the balance sheet date. In the case of
investments with no listed market price, a
valuation technique (e.g. recent transactions
between willing and knowledgeable parties,
discounted cash flows and market multiples)
is applied. Where the fair value of unlisted
equity investments cannot be reliably measured,
they continue to be valued at cost.

62

EXK70063

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

Equities in the banking book
31 December 2014 (€’000)

Euroclear plc consolidated

Fair value of investments disclosed in balance sheet
Publicly quoted share values when different from fair value

161,923
–

Exchange-traded exposures
- equity shares

152,141
152,141

Private equity exposures in diversified portfolios
Other (unlisted, but fair value determinable)
Realised gains (losses) from sales and liquidations
Total unrealised gains (losses)(1)
(1)

–
9,782
606
46,954

	 included in common equity Tier 1 capital

EXK70064 63

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Interest rate risk in the banking book
Euroclear typically has net long cash positions

The sensitivity of the economic value of

and its earnings therefore are sensitive to

the Banking Book to interest rate shocks is

future changes in interest rates.

presented in the first column of the table
below. The change in value mainly arises from

The table below shows the interest rate

the assets held in the Investment and Hedging

sensitivity of Euroclear’s Banking Book

Books of Euroclear Bank. Indeed, assets and

positions. The figures relate to Euroclear

liabilities of the Treasury Book are almost fully

SA/NV consolidated, as communicated to the

matched and have no material impact on this

National Bank of Belgium in the framework of

sensitivity measure.

standardised reporting under Pillar 2 of Basel.
The figures for Euroclear plc are not expected

The remainder of the table illustrates to which

to diverge materially from the content of this

extent the net interest income of Euroclear

table. Assets and liabilities held in the Banking

Bank is sensitive to interest rate movements,

Book are predominantly denominated in euro,

compared to the amount earned in 2014. For

and they are expressed at market value for

the purpose of this disclosure, the latter is

the purpose of this disclosure. The economic

limited to pounds sterling, US dollars, euros,

value of the Banking Book is computed by

Australian dollars and Russian rubles, as is the

discounting the future cash flows for assets

analysis of future earnings sensitivity.

and liabilities present in this book.
The interest rate risk and economic value are
measured on a quarterly basis.

At 31 December 2014 (€’000)
Interest rate increases/
decreases, in basis points
+ 300
+ 200
+ 100
+/- 0
- 100
- 200
- 300
(1)

Economical value
of banking book

1,798,619
1,815,734
1,832,991
1,850,394
1,867,946
1,885,651
1,903,514

Euroclear SA/NV consolidated
Interest result
Effective 2014

62,719

Income sensitivity
– interest result
Expected 2015

437,250
324,274
209,875
95,901
52,174
47,710
45,308

The figures for Euroclear plc are not expected to diverge materially from the content of this table.

64

EXK70065

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Liquidity risk
management
Liquidity risk is the risk of loss (financial and non-financial) arising from Euroclear being unable
to settle an obligation for full value when due. The purpose of liquidity risk management is to help
Euroclear avoid liquidity risk by ensuring that it has adequate funds to meet its obligations.

Strategies and processes
for liquidity risk management
Euroclear Bank

Euroclear Bank liquidity is managed centrally,
at the head office. Specific policies exist to

Euroclear Bank is the main entity within the

describe how Euroclear Bank liquidity risks

Euroclear group facing liquidity risk. Liquidity

are monitored and controlled. Euroclear Bank

is an important factor in offering efficient

does not depend on other Euroclear group

settlement and custody services in Euroclear

entities for its liquidity.

Bank. Liquidity ensures timely payments and
timely cross-border settlement with domestic

In addition to other requirements, Euroclear

markets, supports new issues and custody

complies with the requirements detailed

activity and allows clients to receive sales

in the Principles for Sound Liquidity

and income proceeds in a timely manner.

Management and Supervision published

The successful management of liquidity risk

by the Basel Committee on Banking

allows Euroclear Bank to provide liquidity to

Supervision(1) and with principle 7 of CPMI-

the market and to facilitate settlement and

IOSCO (Committee on Payment and Market

related operations.

Infrastructures-International Organization of
Securities Commissions) .

Euroclear Bank’s liquidity risk is largely intraday and transactional and results from the
secured intra-day credit it extends to facilitate
settlement on a Delivery Versus Payment (DVP)
basis. Euroclear Bank’s overnight settlement
process, which allows clients to settle a wide
range of currencies within a single time
window, efficiently recycles and minimises
liquidity needs, as clients have to fund only
the resulting net debit position. Although the
daily incoming and outgoing cash payments
are typically matched, Euroclear Bank may
still end up with cash positions at the end of
the day. Daily, Euroclear Bank is typically long
of cash, which is invested mostly on a very
short term basis (within 2 days) to match the
volatility of clients’ settlement and money
transfer activity.

____________
(1)

	 CBFA circular 2009-18 dated 8 May 2009.

EXK70066 65

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

The Euroclear CSDs
and Euroclear SA/NV

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

For both types of cash, in accordance with
the low interest rate risk objective, the
investments should not exceed 3 years term.

The Euroclear CSDs and Euroclear SA/NV face

The type of instrument used is limited to

very little liquidity risk. It arises from the

overnight or term deposits.

related credit risk that they are exposed to
when awaiting the payment of fees from their
Participants or depositing their cash surplus

Intra-group liquidity management

with their bank counterparties (including
Euroclear Bank).

The capital/dividend policy applicable to all
Euroclear group entities reflects the following

The chapter on Credit risk management

principles:

outlines how these risks are managed.
•	 each entity manages its level of capital in
Euroclear SA/NV, Euroclear Belgium, Euroclear

line with its local needs, taking into account

France and Euroclear UK and Ireland are

its (i) minimum regulatory requirements;

subject to regulatory liquidity requirements.

(ii) specificity of risk profile; and (iii) future

These entities are required to hold liquid

investment programme and earnings

reserves equal to a few months’ operating

expectations;

expenses or be able to rely on appropriate
liquidity facilities, to ensure that they can
continue operating under all circumstances.

•	 any available free capital is transferred to
the parent company to be used for Group
initiatives. For the (I)CSDs specifically, this

The investment guidelines that apply

means that all available free capital is to

to Euroclear SA/NV and the group CSDs

be transferred to the group level, where it

distinguish two types of cash:

can be used to finance group investments,
or support special initiatives. Available free

•	 the cash position linked to the regulatory

capital of any (I)CSD should however not

liquidity requirements, for entities for which

be used to cover possible shortfalls in other

such requirements apply. This cash position

(I)CSDs.

should be invested on a roll-over basis; and
However, the following arrangements are in
•	 the surplus cash, including the working

place to allow for intra-group support:

cash requirements of these entities. Surplus
cash investments should always be cash-

•	 ESA will support the CSDs (support letters

flow driven. This means that the amount

are in place, for the ESES CSDs), among

of cash and the period of the investments

others, in the case of liquidity shortfalls.

should take into account the evolution
of working cash needs and capital
expenditure needs.

•	 ESA has a line of liquidity in place with
Euroclear plc to cover its regulatory
obligations.
The remainder of this chapter applies
to Euroclear Bank only, except where
otherwise stated.

66

EXK70067

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

Liquidity risk appetite

Funding liquidity

Given the criticality of intra-day liquidity for

Euroclear Bank’s settlement system allows for

the efficient delivery of settlement and custody

an efficient recycling of liquidity. Although

services, Euroclear Bank’s liquidity risk appetite

Euroclear Bank settles transactions amounting

is very low.

to over EUR 1,300 billion each day (2014
average), it only extends between EUR 70 and

In particular:

EUR 81 billions in secured intra-day credit to
its clients. The large amount of ‘off setting’

• 	 Euroclear Bank should not fail on its

transactions and Euroclear Bank’s efficient

settlement and payment activity to the

lending and borrowing programme allow it

extent that it causes significant financial

to reduce Participants’ liquidity needs. Since

loss or damage to the reputation of

Euroclear Bank’s daily cash flows are typically

Euroclear Bank; and

matched (i.e. the receipts match the payment
obligations), additional liquidity is only needed

• 	 an adequate liquidity contingency

to smooth or accelerate the payment process

plan should be in place to ensure the

and to ensure the timely execution of critical

continuity of Euroclear Bank’s settlement

payments throughout the day.

and payment activities, even under
exceptional circumstances. The objective

To support its daily payment activity,

of the contingency plan is to maintain an

Euroclear Bank relies on a large network of

adequate level of intra-day liquidity even

highly rated cash correspondents and has a

if the Participant with the largest payment

direct access to TARGET2 system for EUR

obligation to Euroclear Bank was unable

payments. In order to raise liquidity, Euroclear

to make payment when due, as per

Bank can also use its investment book, funded

principle 7 of CPMI-IOSCO.

by the long-term debt, equity and retained
earnings. The investment book must be invested

Euroclear Bank has adopted a strong risk

with the objective of capital and liquidity

management framework to anticipate,

preservation, i.e. in EUR-denominated

monitor and manage intra-day liquidity

sovereign, supranational or agency debt

flows to ensure the quality of its services

instruments rated AA- or above and ESCB-

and prevent problems. Liquidity risk is

eligible. Furthermore, Euroclear Bank has a

further mitigated by Euroclear Bank’s strict

broad access to the inter-bank market and has

client admission policy and the continuous

contingency liquidity sources in place for the

monitoring of its clients, by the fact that the

major currencies.

transactional credit is secured and very short
term (usually intraday), and by limits on the

Euroclear Bank continuously develops strategic

total amount of credit granted to any single

initiatives to ensure adequate access to liquidity

family of Participants.

on a day-to-day basis and in contingency
situations.

EXK70068 67

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

The adequacy of the bank’s liquidity capacity

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Liquidity contingency plan

is assessed and approved quarterly by the
Credit and Assets and Liabilities Committee

In accordance with principle 7 of CPMI-IOSCO,

(CALCO). It also monitors the trend of liquidity

Euroclear Bank maintains an appropriate

risk that Euroclear Bank faces through

liquidity contingency plan to ensure the

liquidity key risk indicators, allowing for

business continuity of its core settlement and

instance to identify changes in Participants’

custody services. The plan documents the

cash management behaviour that may affect

relevant operational procedures and ensures

Euroclear Bank’s liquidity.

access to (contingency) liquidity in the event
of an operational or financial crisis.

A first indicator shows the timing at which
funds are received throughout the day, as late

To cover its short-term liquidity needs

credit confirmations can impact remaining

resulting from the default of a Participant,

wire transfers. A second indicator focuses on

Euroclear Bank has agreements in place with

the adequacy of collateral to support cross-

its largest credit users allowing Euroclear Bank

border activity. A last indicator monitors

to appropriate the participant pledged

whether the liquidity risk arising from credit

collateral (immediate transfer of ownership).

granted to Participants can be supported by

In order to generate liquidity, this appropriated

Euroclear Bank’s liquidity sources.

collateral is then re-used with liquidity
providers or pledged with the National Bank

Additionally, Risk Management informs the

of Belgium, pending full liquidation.

CALCO of any notable change in Euroclear
Bank liquidity capacity in the major currencies.

Finally, Euroclear Bank has negotiated
additional committed liquidity lines and can
call upon a EUR 1 billion syndicated backstop
facility and a total of EUR 160 million bilateral
stand by facilities. The contingency plan and
the availability of contingency liquidity are
tested regularly and subject to stress-testing.

68

EXK70069

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

The table below shows the size and

It shows liquid financial assets available at the

composition of Euroclear’s liquidity buffer. It

end of the day on the reporting date, and

is one of the standardised tables used for the

excludes encumbered financial assets.

reporting of Pillar 2 information to the NBB.

31 December 2014 (€’000)
Cash and balances at central banks
Cash
Credit balances at central banks
Securities and loans available at ECB/Eurosystem, Bank of England
(BoE) or Swiss National Bank(SNB)
Debt certificates issued by central governments and central banks
Debt certificates issued by credit institutions
Securities and loans available as repo-transactions
(or other type of loan against guarantee)

Euroclear SA/NV consolidated(2)
13,753
13
13,740
2,694,231
2,344,334
349,897
11,918,068

Securities realisable through sale operation
Potentially reusable securities received as guarantee
Securities available at ECB/Eurosysteem, BoE or SNB
Securities available as repo-transactions
(or other type of loan against guarantee)

0
4,235,621
2,561,108
1,674,513

(1)

	 Aggregate value, expressed in EUR, of liquid financial assets denominated in any currency (including EUR). Does not include
accrued interest.

(2)

	 The figures for Euroclear plc are not expected to diverge materially from the content of this table. Note that the rules regarding
the classification of assets, namely between the category ‘securities and loans available as repo-transactions’ and ‘potentially
reusable securities received as guarantee’, have changed per 31 march 2011. The latter should only reflect the value of collateral
received in transaction which maturity exceeds one month

EXK70070 69

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Liquidity risk measurement and modelling
Cash flow projections and
management of intra-day and
end-of-day liquidity

Except for committed treasury transactions
between trade date and settlement date
and some limited derivatives transactions(1),
Euroclear Bank has no significant potential

At all times, Euroclear Bank ensures that it

cash-flows relating to off-balance sheet

has access to sufficient liquidity to support

positions. Euroclear Bank is not subject to

its core services. To achieve this, Euroclear

liquidity risk arising from special purpose

Bank forecasts, monitors and measures the

vehicles because the company does not

net intra-day funding requirements, which

engage in securitisation.

are derived from the cross-border settlement
activity, Clearstream Bridge activity and new

The table below shows liquidity inflows and

issues, in a timely manner and at various

outflows at Euroclear, per time bucket, as

critical moments throughout the day.

reported to the NBB (monthly) under the
standardised Pillar 2 reporting. These figures

The intra-day liquidity need is assessed:

are not cumulative, which means that inor outflows expected in the coming week

•	 the previous day, by forecasting the
funding requirements; and

are not included in in- or outflows for the
coming month.

•	 throughout the day, by controlling the
intra-day liquidity position at the cash
correspondents and monitoring the
liquidity flow.
Euroclear Bank anticipates and monitors
the end-of-day position at each of the
cash correspondent banks. End-of-day long
balances may be invested at short term,
provided that the investment complies with
liquidity gap limits, defined by currency and
maturity buckets.

____________
(1)

	 This concerns Euroclear Bank stand-alone. All consolidated
levels above Euroclear Bank report fair values under IFRS;
derivatives transactions are treated as being on balance sheet.

70

EXK70071

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

Euroclear SA/NV consolidated(1)

At 31 December 2014 (€’000)

< 1 week

< 1 month

< 3 months

< 6 months

< 12 months

Inflow of liquidity (not cumulative)
Provisioned inflow related to credit supply without liquid financial assets as a guarantee
Central governments
Credit institutions

262
3,942,896

112,808

37,658

138,380

–

-

–

–

–

46

–

–

–

305

9,822,454

1,801,485

2,184,180

1,927,428

–

–

–

–

–

–

11,197

4,298

857

268

666

–

–

–

–

Cash

–

–

–

–

–

Liquid securities and loans

–

–

–

–

–

Other institutions(2)
Others

47,419

Provisioned inflow related to transactions with liquid securities and loans
Cash
Liquid securities and loansProvisioned and potential net cash flows related to derivatives(3)
Foreign exchange derivatives
Interest rate derivatives
Provisioned inflow coming from related parties

Potential inflow
Related parties – confirmed credit lines
Third parties ­– confirmed credit lines

20,000

–

–

–

–

3,993,386

–

–

–

–

–

Outflows of liquidity (not cumulative)
Outflow related to financing without liquid financial assets as a guarantee(4)
Central governments
Credit institutions
Other institutions(2)
Others

3,304

–

–

–

18,464,971

166,724

12,180

100,963

–

97,867

–

–

–

–

968,729

6,366

–

–

–

Provisioned outflow related to transactions with liquid securities and loans
Cash

–

–

–

–

–

Liquid securities and loans

–

–

–

–

–

4,249

–

-

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Related parties

–

–

–

–

–

Third parties

–

–

–

–

–

Outflow to related parties
Cash
Liquid securities and loans
Potential outflow

(1)

	 Aggregate value, expressed in EUR, of liquid financial assets denominated in any currency (including EUR).
Does not include accrued interest.

(2)

	 This includes local governments, multilateral development banks and public institutions.

(3)

	 Excluding credit derivatives. Note that Euroclear is not active in credit derivatives. Expressed as exposure at default
(notional value x add-on), not in fair value, in contrast to the Consolidated financial statements.

(4)

	 Operational deposits receive a run-off factor of 100% in the Belgian regulatory stress test ratio.
They are weighted at 25% under Basel III.

EXK70072 71

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Global family limit

Regulatory stress test ratio

To fulfil the principle 7 of CPMI-IOSCO,

The National Bank of Belgium

Euroclear Bank has defined a methodology
to determine an aggregate global family
limit, which limits the maximum exposure that
Euroclear Bank could face on a single family,
in any currencies.
The extent to which credit is limited is based
on Euroclear Bank’s assessment of available
sources of liquidity.

The National Bank of Belgium (NBB) has
introduced a liquidity ‘stress test ratio’, which
became a regulatory requirement in January
2011. It is designed to reflect the liquidity
position of the institution under exceptional
circumstances (combining an idiosyncratic shock
with a general liquidity crisis), by comparing
the potential liquidity needed and the
potential liquidity available. Basically, this
ratio ensures that Euroclear Bank has enough

Liquidity preservation limits
Euroclear Bank invests mostly on a very short
term basis. However, investments can be
made with a longer term within the liquidity
preservation limits.
The aim of these limits is to control the net
treasury short-term investment outstanding
position beyond 1 week, 2 weeks, 1 month,
3 months and up to 6 months for some predefined currencies(1) and also at an EUR
equivalent aggregate level. The outstanding
position must remain within the limits in

liquid financial assets to cover the net outflows
resulting from the run off of all our Participants
cash balances.
In this exercise, the NBB assumes that
unsecured financing or credit lines from
counterparties are unavailable, and 100%
of the on-demand deposits from wholesale
Participants are lost. Credit lines at the central
bank, financing through repos, sale of assets
and re-use of collateral are considered accessible.
It is defined as:
liquidity
inflows – outflows
_________________________
liquidity assets

order to avoid any liquidity shortage in case
of unusually high liquidity needs or low end
of day Participant balances.

The resulting stress ratio should be less than
100%. The ratio is calculated for maturities of

The EUR equivalent aggregate limit is set

one week and one month.

to comply with the National Bank of Belgium
liquidity stress test ratio (see next item below).

This Belgian ratio will be replaced by the

This ratio will be replaced by the Liquidity

Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) from Basel III.

Coverage Ratio (LCR from Basel III) by
October 2015.

____________
(1)	End of 2013, the pre-defined currencies are EUR, USD, GBP,
JPY, CHF, SEK, NOK, DKK, AUD, NZD, CAD, ZAR, RUB, MXN,
SGD, HKD.

72

EXK70073

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR)
There are some differences between the NBB
and the Basel ratios, mainly with regards
to the definition of liquid assets The LCR is

Currently, three types of stress-tests are
conducted regularly:
•	 A daily liquidity back test (run quarterly)
is conducted in order to assess whether

defined as:

the committed and contingency liquidity

liquidity assets
_________________________

sources are sufficient to withstand the

liquidity outflows – inflows

default of the family with the largest
aggregate payment obligation, which is

and should be higher than 100%.
The LCR reporting has started since March
2014 in the context of the observation period.
The NBB requires a 100% LCR compliance as
from October 2015.

Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR)
The NSFR ensures that there is a minimum
level of stable sources to fund a bank
activities over a 1 year horizon (assets & off
B/S). Similarly to the LCR, the NSFR should
be higher than 100% and the reporting has
started since March 2014 (observation period).
Compliance will be required as from 2018.

defined in accordance with principle 7 of
CPMI-IOSCO.
	

In addition, Euroclear Bank carries out a
stress test simulating the simultaneous
default of the top two largest clients,
including all Euroclear Bank participants
belonging to these client’s groups.

•	 In order to assess the adequacy of the
liquidity sources and of the business
continuity plan under extreme circumstances,
a number of plausible operational and
financial scenarios are defined and
analysed on a regular basis. These scenarios
include idiosyncratic and market-wide
stress events such as an operational failure

Liquidity stress testing

of a key cash correspondent, a financial
problem with a large Participant, etc...

Euroclear Bank regularly performs idiosyncratic
and market wide liquidity stress tests to

•	 A few ad hoc scenarios – often also

assess potential liquidity strains and to ensure

including other risk types – may be retained

adequate access to enough liquidity sources

and run as role-plays, as part of Euroclear

to fund any shortfalls. For the group CSDs

Bank’s business continuity exercises,

and Euroclear SA/NV, liquidity stress testing is

involving various layers in the organisation.

also performed to ensure, where applicable,
compliance with local regulatory obligations
as well as adequate funding.

EXK70074 73

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

74

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXK70075

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Operational risk
management
All Euroclear entities face operational risk. In line with Basel II, Euroclear defines operational risk
as ‘the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or
from external events’. Euroclear considers operational risk to encompass:

Processing risk

The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, not related to the risks
described hereafter. This includes the indirect consequences of operational risk on liquidity,
credit and market risks, as well as relationship management risk (lack of adequate knowledge of
customers and service partners) and inadequate communication with the media, are also included;

Accounting risk

The risk of loss arising from the failure to produce timely and accurate management reporting
and financial statements that provide a fair representation of the company’s financial situation.

Ethical conduct, legal
and compliance risk

The risk of loss arising from a failure to:
•	 act with integrity, fairness and honesty;
•	 adapt to changes in the legal and regulatory environment;
•	 anticipate, identify, understand or comply with relevant laws and regulations;
•	 competently negotiate, implement, comply with or enforce contracts.

People Risk

The risk of loss due to failure to manage the performance of human resources adequately, social
conflicts, lack of development of competencies, lack of appropriate human resources, inadequate
management of external parties or a failure to (want to) change.

Project Risk

The risk of an uncertain event or condition that, if it occurs, has effects one of the project
objectives. Project risk management helps the project team to deliver the required functionalities
on time within the predefined budget in a qualitative way.

Information
and systems

The risk of loss due to loss of data integrity & information or due to system unavailability, breach
of confidentiality, lack of systems alignment to the business or inadequate information or system
support. This includes risks related to breaches in corporate security and information security
(including business continuity).

EXK70076 75

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Strategies and processes
for operational risk management
The Enterprise Risk Management
framework applied to operational
risk management

•	 Each of the departments within the group
participates in annual Risk & Control SelfAssessments. Through workshops, the
business owners revalidate both the high

Euroclear uses an ERM framework to ensure

level and level two control objectives and

the coherence of its risk management activities,

identify weaknesses;

in particular in the area of operational risk
management.

•	 Standard operating procedures, written by
each department in which they are to be

The ERM framework describes how operational

used, help employees to execute their tasks

risks are identified, who bears responsibility

appropriately and reduce the risk of errors;

for managing these risks, and how they
can be mitigated. The ERM framework

•	 In recent years, Euroclear has developed

also describes all relevant operational risk

control maps or equivalent tools that map

processes, the role of people within the

key processes and key controls against

processes, and the information needed to make

stated control objectives as a continuous

sound management decisions. It has been

controls effectiveness monitoring tool.

implemented consistently across the group, but
in ways that are appropriate to the businesses
of the different entities.

Security and resilience
Information security

Operational risk monitoring
and controls
Operational risk is monitored and managed
with the help of a number of tools:
•	 Euroclear has set up a database of
potential risks and control weaknesses
and carefully records incidents. Euroclear’s
database now has more than ten years
of historical data on operational losses.
Internal data is complemented by external
loss data, as Euroclear is among the banks
that provide information to the ORX-

The corporate objective of the group
security activity is to assure management
that Information Security (IS) risks in the
personnel, physical, logical and technical
domains are properly identified and correctly
ranked and that IS control processes are
effective and in line with the defined risk
appetite and relevant legislation. Euroclear
has adopted a standardised threat profile that
is supplemented annually by a more strategic
IS threat assessment. Together these provide
the baseline for the annual IS risk assessment
from which risk treatment plans are derived.

database(1). In benchmarking exercises
conducted among the banks that contribute
to the ORX database, losses related to
operational risks (expressed relative to
gross income), appeared to be significantly
lower for Euroclear, compared to the other
contributors to the database;

76

____________
(1)

	 The Operational Riskdata eXchange Association (ORX)
was founded in 2002 with the primary objective
of creating a platform for the secure exchange of
(anonymous) high-quality operational risk loss data.
ORX currently has more than 60 members and has
developed a database with more than 350,000 operational
risk losses, each over EUR 20,000 in value, totalling a little
bit less than EUR 200 billion (April 2014)

EXK70077

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

The IS internal control system has been

To preserve continuity of service Euroclear

included in the ERM framework, allowing

Bank and Euroclear UK & Ireland operate their

compliance with the requirements associated

respective services concurrently from multiple

with Euroclear’s adoption of the AMA under

offices. The ESES entities (Euroclear France,

Basel. Euroclear takes as a reference for its

Euroclear Belgium and Euroclear Nederland)

IS framework internationally recognised

utilise cross border recovery plans between

standards such as ISO 27001:2013.

the three entities to ensure the immediate
continuity of critical services while staff are

Euroclear is designated as critical

relocated. ESES can also use recovery office

infrastructure in Belgium, Finland, France,

space in Paris and Brussels as a remote backup.

The Netherlands and the United Kingdom.
Euroclear receives threat assessments from the

Euroclear Finland and Sweden has access

national security agencies of these countries

to separate backup offices outside their

on a regular basis and can draw upon their

respective city centres with enough capacity

expertise to resolve IS issues. These agencies

for staff to run all critical business processes,

conduct periodic assurance reviews of

including the IT operations and maintenance.

Euroclear’s security standards and procedures.
All entities perform annual business impact

Business resilience
To ensure continuous availability of
business-critical services, Euroclear carefully
reviews its use of technology, buildings
and staff using CPMI-IOSCO Principles for
FMIs, and ISO22301:2012, Societal security
- Business continuity management systems Requirements as a reference framework.
Euroclear has three data centres sufficiently
distanced from each other to sustain
operations in the event of a regional-scale
disaster. The effectiveness of data centres

analyses to identify their critical business
services and recovery time objectives. Business
continuity plans have been harmonised
at corporate and departmental levels
throughout the group.
Finally, each element of the strategy is
regularly maintained and tested. This includes
a comprehensive crisis management training
programme that uses increasingly sophisticated
market-based scenarios to further develop
the capabilities of the crisis response teams,
including those involving top management.

and recovery procedures is assured through
the transfer of production activity between
sites every two months and regional disaster
recovery exercises at least once a year.
Euroclear Finland and Euroclear Sweden
operates two geographically separated
IT centres in which all critical systems and
networks are present and data is replicated
in real time.

EXK70078 77

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

Legal protection

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

To limit the risk associated with such
uncertainty, Euroclear Bank has obtained

The Euroclear CSDs

opinions from reputable local counsel in the

TThe Euroclear CSDs have in place a robust

relevant jurisdictions, on whether or not

legal framework applicable to the relationship

such jurisdictions recognise that securities in

with their clients, including a liability regime

the Euroclear system are located in Belgium

reflecting their risk-averse nature and their role

for purposes of conflict-of-law issues, and

as market infrastructure. The respective duties

accordingly recognise the Belgian law pledge.

of the CSDs and their clients are well-defined.

The legal opinions are renewed periodically.
This has been further strengthened for

Euroclear Bank
Euroclear Bank is protected against the
consequences of a bankruptcy, insolvency
or contractual default of any one of its
Participants by a number of provisions
contained in the credit documentation signed
with the Participants. Euroclear Bank also
aims to ensure the protection of Participants’
assets, even if held with a sub-custodian.

Contractual protection
Euroclear Bank may offer credit facilities to

European Union countries since the adoption
of the Settlement Finality Directive, which
confirmed that Belgian law (the jurisdiction
where the security rights are recorded) would
apply, for the purposes of enforceability of
the collateral, if a Euroclear Bank Participant
becomes insolvent.
The Terms and Conditions that Participants are
required to sign before becoming Euroclear
Bank Participants include clauses that protect
Euroclear Bank. The most important clauses
are the following:

its Participants on an uncommitted basis.
Participants benefitting from credit facilities

Upon the effectiveness of any termination

are required to execute special credit

or resignation, or as soon thereafter as is

documentation with Euroclear Bank.

reasonably practicable, we will effect the
return to you of the amounts you hold in

Credit facilities are generally required to be

your Cash Account(s) and securities credited

secured. Secured credit facilities are typically

to your Securities

collateralised by Participant assets held within
the Euroclear system. Participants that pledge

Clearance Account(s), provided, however, that

assets within the Euroclear system sign a

we, without affecting any other rights we

collateral agreement with Euroclear Bank.

may have, have the right to:

The principal legal risk that arises in connection

i.	 set off against or retain from such amounts

with collateral pledged to Euroclear Bank is

to be so returned any amounts which are due

the uncertainty that exists as to whether or not,

to, or which may become due to, us from you

in the event of bankruptcy of a Participant, a
court would recognise and enforce a Belgian
law pledge.

ii.	 retain securities held in such Securities
Clearance Account(s) to provide for the
payment in full of any amounts which are
due to, or which may become due to, us
from you.

78

EXK70079

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

Unity of account and right of set off – Except
as otherwise provided by law or otherwise
agreed in writing between you and us with
respect to any specified account, all Cash
Accounts and other current accounts with
us in Belgium opened in your name are part
of one single and indivisible current account
of which they are mere subdivisions for
bookkeeping purposes.
This is the case even if:
i.	 such subdivisions are maintained in
different currencies, earn credit interest or
are charged debit interest at different rates
ii.	 the transactions therein are reported in
different statements of account.
Consequently, we have the option, among

Asset protection
Due to the fact that Euroclear Bank holds
its interest in securities in a network of subcustodians located in more than 40 countries,
its holdings may also be subject to legal
uncertainty in the event of the bankruptcy
of a given sub-custodian. Euroclear Bank
Participants’ assets need protection from the
risk of a sub-custodian becoming insolvent
and from the risk of attachment by the
creditors of such sub-custodian.
To limit the legal risk arising in connection
with the holdings of securities with subcustodians, Euroclear Bank has obtained
formal legal opinions from reputable local
counsel in each jurisdiction in which it holds
securities with a custodian. These legal
opinions are renewed periodically.

others, of transferring the balance of any
subdivision of our current account that is in
credit to any subdivision that is in debit or vice
versa, at any time and without prior notice.

Insurance
In addition to these control processes,
Euroclear maintains a comprehensive

Liens, rights and obligations
In addition to any pledge of Securities Clearance
Accounts, Transit Accounts, Cash Accounts
and other assets held in the Euroclear system
specifically agreed to by a Participant,
Participants’ assets held in the Euroclear

insurance programme to protect against
operational risk. All insurance policies are held
with first-rank insurance companies, rated at
least A-. The programme includes coverage
for crime and civil liability, physical securities
loss and cyber risks.

system (except, unless otherwise agreed,
assets held for customers and identified as
such) are subject to a statutory lien in favour
of Euroclear Bank, pursuant to Article 31 of
the Belgian Law of 2 August, 2002 related to
the surveillance of the financial sector.

EXK70080 79

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Operational risk measurement and modelling
Regulatory capital requirement

Though Euroclear uses insurance to mitigate
operational risk, it does not take insurance

Euroclear uses a hybrid approach at all

into account when calculating regulatory

consolidated levels above Euroclear Bank and

capital requirements for operational risk

Euroclear SA/NV, by combining the AMA for

under the AMA.

Euroclear Bank and the simplified AMA for
Euroclear SA, with a Standardised Approach

The following table shows the capital

(TSA) for the group CSDs or a BIA for the

requirements for operational risk for

group’s other entities.

Euroclear plc.

The main building blocks of the AMA model
are scenarios that describe potential severe
losses. The set of scenarios is defined to
cover all event types defined under Basel II.
For each scenario, the risk is expressed by
way of frequency and severity distributions,
the parameters of which are estimated or
calculated using data that is compliant with
the Basel II soundness standards. They include
the four required elements: internal losses,
relevant external ORX losses, scenarios, and
business environment and internal control
factors. The tail of the severity distribution
of scenarios is assumed to follow a Pareto
distribution

31 December 2014 (€’000)

Euroclear plc consolidated

Capital requirements for operational risk(1)
Basic Indicator Approach component
Standardised Approach component
Advanced Measurement Approach component

2,811
61,982
223,366

Total

288,231

(1)

	 Basic Indicator Approach is used for the administrative entities of the group, Standardised Approach is used for the CSDs and
Advanced Measurement Approach is used for Euroclear Bank and Euroclear SA/NV.

80

EXK70081

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

Economic capital
For Euroclear Bank, the AMA is used both for

Assessment and Rating
Methodology

the determination of minimum operational

The Assessment and Rating Methodology

risk regulatory capital under Pillar 1 of the

(ARM) helps business experts to assess and

Basel framework, and for the calculation of

rate operational risk with financial and/or

economic capital. For the regulatory capital

reputation impact, at aggregated (entity,

calculation, a confidence level of 99.9% is

service) risk levels and at individual risk levels.

used. For the economic capital calculation, a
confidence level of 99.98% is used, consistent

Under the ARM, the impact of these risks is

with Euroclear Bank’s target rating.

assessed at a lower confidence level than for
the calculation of economic capital require-

For the economic capital calculation, the

ments. The assessment focuses on operational

model recognises the mitigation of operational

losses that have one chance out of ten to

risk due to insurance. The insurance policies

materialise over a one-year horizon. It is more

have been mapped to the Basel II event types

intuitive for business experts than the level

to identify insurance coverage gaps. This

set for economic capital calculations, which

allows for a clear assessment of the coverage

considers events that have one chance out of

of each scenario of the model by the different

5,000 to occur in any given year.

insurance policies.
Any risk impact is then compared to the
For the other material entities of the Euroclear

risk appetite and upper tolerance levels set

group, which incur almost no operational

relative to the management capital level,

losses, no sound and relevant economic

which allows these risks to be rated and

capital model can be built. Therefore, for the

relevant mitigation actions to be prioritised.

Internal Capital Measurement Approach, the
internal view on the capital requirement is

The risk appetite and upper tolerance levels

calculated using the Basel II TSA approach.

are set relative to the economic capital

Though TSA is normally calibrated to a 99.9%

level. These are set for each material entity

confidence level, it is sufficiently conservative

of the Euroclear group, respectively by its

to be used as a proxy for a confidence level

management committee and by its board

of 99.98%, as TSA does not take into account

of directors.

insurance mitigation or the liability caps
applicable in some CSDs.

EXK70082 81

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

82

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

EXK70083

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Remuneration policies
and practices
Overall Purpose

Governance Structure

The overall purpose of the Euroclear

Remuneration Committee

compensation policy is to align the interests
of our employees with the long-term interests
of our stakeholders.
Our compensation framework is designed
to attract and retain talented human capital,
in a market infrastructure business where
technical knowledge is not widely available
in the general market. Our compensation
framework takes into account the risk profile
of the Euroclear Group.
The principles of the incentive compensation
system are performance-related, fair and
equitable across the organisation. They are
made transparent to all our employees.
These principles are applied with a view to
aligning the compensation policy with the
company’s strategy and objectives, its values,
and the long term interests of the company.

The Remuneration Committee has the
following remit:
•	 oversees the application of the policy
•	 oversees the compensation of the nonexecutive Directors of Euroclear SA/NV
(ESA) and PLC with the support of external
advisors where necessary. The compensation
of the non-executive directors in the
operating entities below ESA is overseen
by the relevant entity’s Compensation/
Remuneration Committee.
•	 periodically reviews and makes
recommendations to their respective
Boards in relation to remuneration of
Board members within the limits set by
shareholders. It has the responsibility to
review such overall limit from time to time
and to make recommendations to the
Board to be submitted to the shareholders.

Scope
These principles apply specifically to the Belgian
companies within the Euroclear Group but
for reasons of equitable treatment, we adopt
a similar approach as far as possible across all
the countries in which we operate (recognising
that there are certain local specificities and
differing national legislative and regulatory
requirements). Non-cash benefits are provided
to employees appropriate to the country they
work in and are market relevant.

•	 reports to the Board on a regular basis as
to the exercise of its duties.
•	 reviews periodically its terms of reference.
•	 reviews and advises the Board on the
annual quantum of the remuneration
and the appropriateness of the individual
remuneration for Identified Staff members
of the Management Committee as well
as the heads of the control functions
(Compliance, Risk and Internal Audit);

EXK70084 83

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

•	 recommends to the Board on the
remuneration policy for the relevant entity

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Compensation Non-Executive
Directors

and for each of the Identified Staff. The
Remuneration Committee is supported by

Compensation for the non-executive Directors

specialised advice from Risk, Audit, HR or

(where fees have not been waived) comprises

external consultancy where necessary;

an annual gross fee. This fee is pro-rated to

•	 oversees any malus decisions.

the number of board meetings attended and
reflects any additional formal responsibilities

In 2014 the Remuneration Committee met

held. The Chairman and Deputy Chairman of

four times for ESA, for EB one Remuneration

ESA and PLC receive a fixed fee. The fees of

Committee meeting took place. No external

the board members are set by relevant boards

consultant assisted the Remuneration

on the recommendation of the relevant

Committees in 2014.

company’s Compensation/Remuneration
Committee within the overall limit set by the
Shareholders.

Board of Directors
The Board of Directors has the final decision
making authority in such remuneration matters.
The approval principles and methodology
are applied uniformly across the respective
operating entity boards.

Non-executive directors (including the
Chairman and Deputy Chairman of
ESA and PLC) do not receive incentive
compensation (short or long-term) or
stock options or employment benefits
(other than reimbursement of expenses).
Their remuneration is not linked to the

Management Committee

performance of Euroclear.

The Management Committee of the relevant
entity is responsible for:

Compensation Management
and Staff

•	 the compensation principles for the Group,
including any affordability or risk-related

Compensation for all groups of employees is

issues;

comprised of fixed and variable compensation.
In addition a range of country-relevant benefits

•	 the continuous assessment of the adequacy
of the remuneration principles taking

(including pension) is provided. Compensation
is aligned to the relevant market.

into account the company objectives and
long-term interests as well as the external

The variable compensation is zero-based and

environment and legislative environment

carries no acquired rights.

the company is operating in;
Variable compensation rewards for performance,
•	 approving the variable compensation
of the members of the Extended

individually and/or collectively, and is based on
pre-set qualitative and quantitative objectives.

Management Committee.

84

EXK70085

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

Variable compensation is paid proportionally
to fixed remuneration within the limits of

Deferred Compensation for Top
Management

the overall group bonus pool decided by
the Board of Directors after advise of the

It is a group-wide policy, to defer part of

Remuneration Committee.

the overall compensation on behalf of the
member of the Management Committee,

The primary measure of performance is

the Extended Management Committee, the

progress against the strategic priorities of

heads of the Control functions and any other

the Group. These not only cover Financial

function that could have – individually or

Strength but also Client, Risk awareness,

collectively – an impact on the overall risk

Operational Performance and People and

profile of the Group.

Organization. These objectives are advised on
an annual basis by the Remuneration Committee

The Group has determined which employees

prior to the approval by the Board.

fall within this category and has notified such
employees in their compensation letter.

The realization of these collective objectives
are monitored closely through-out the year.

The award and payment of part of the

The stand of affairs is periodically reported

upfront and deferred compensation is linked

and communicated.

to the overall stability of the group in terms
of Financial stability, Risk profile & Systems

At year-end, the results are internally audited

availability over a period of maximum 3 years.

prior to submission to the Remuneration
Committee. The Board consequently decides on
the bonus pool, also taking into consideration
any other criteria that may be of relevance to
preserve the long term interests of the company.
Quantitative information related to
remuneration is disclosed in the annual report.

EXK70086 85

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Securitisation
Euroclear does not engage in any securitisation activities.

86

EXK70087

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

List of acronyms
AIRBA

Advanced Internal Ratings-Based Approach for credit risk

AMA

Advanced Measurement Approach for operational risk

ARM

Assessment and Rating Methodology

BCBS

Basel Committee on Banking Supervision

BIA

Basic Indicator Approach for operational risk

CALCO

Credit, Assets and Liabilities Committee

CCP

Central Counterparty

CEBS

Committee of European Banking Supervisors

CESR

Committee of European Securities Regulators

COSO

Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission

CPMI

Committee on Payment and Market Infrastructure

CRD

Capital Requirements Directive

CRM

Corporate Risk Manager

CRO

Chief Risk Officer

CSD

Central Securities Depository

DVP

Delivery-versus-Payment

EAD

Exposure At Default

EAR

Earnings-at-Risk

EC

Economic Capital

EDF

Expected Default Frequency

ERM

Enterprise Risk Management

ESA

Euroclear SA/NV

ESCB

European System of Central Banks

FIRBA

Foundation Internal Ratings-Based Approach for credit risk

HSA

Horizontal Self-Assessment

ICAAP

Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process

ICMA

Internal Capital Measurement Approach

EXK70088 87

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

ICS

Internal Controls System

ICSD

International Central Securities Depository

IFRS

International Financial Reporting Standards

IOSCO

International Organization of Securities Commissions

IRB

Internal Ratings-Based approach for credit risk

IS

Information Security

KPI

Key Performance Indicator

KRI

Key Risk Indicator

LCR

Liquidity Coverage Ratio

LGD

Loss-Given-Default

NBB

National Bank of Belgium

OTC

Over-the-Counter

ORX

Operational Riskdata eXchange

PD

Probability of Default

RCSA

Risk and Control Self-Assessment

SREP

Supervisory Review Evaluation Process

SRP

Supervisory Review Process

SSS

Securities Settlement System

TARGET

Trans-Automated Real-time Gross Express Transfer system, the Real-Time Gross
Settlement System of the ESCB

TSA

The Standardised Approach for operational risk

VaR

Value-At-Risk

88

EXK70089

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Annexes

EXK70090 89

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Annex I – Euroclear plc consolidated – own funds
31 December 2014 (€’000)
Common Equity Tier 1 capital: instruments and reserves
1

Capital instruments and the related share premium

Amount at
disclosure date

Amounts
(eu) 575/2013 (1 )

146.592

Reference to
balance sheet
a

accounts
of which: Ordinary shares and related share premium
2

Retained earnings

3

Accumulated other comprehensive income (and other

146.592
2.097.140

d

894.526

b

reserves, to include unrealised gains and losses under the
applicable accounting standards)
6

Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital before regulatory

3.138.258

adjustments
Common Equity Tier 1 capital: instruments and reserves
8

Intangible assets (net of related tax liability) (negative

(934.433)

e

280

c

amount)
11

Fair value reserves related to gains or losses on cash flow
hedges

12

Negative amounts resulting from the calculation of

(2.410)

expected loss amounts
28

Total regulatory adjustments to Common equity Tier 1

(936.563)

(CET1)
29

Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital

2.201.695

Additional Tier 1 (AT1) capital: instruments
33

Amount of qualifying items referred to in Article 484 (4)

78.404

78.404

78.404

78.404

f

and the related share premium accounts subject to phase
out from AT1
36

Additional Tier 1 (AT1) capital before regulatory
adjustments

Additional Tier 1 (AT1) capital: regulatory adjustments
43

Total regulatory adjustments to Additional Tier 1 (AT1)

0

capital
44

Additional Tier 1 (AT1) capital

45

Tier 1 capital (T1 = CET1 + AT1)

78.404

78.404

2.280.099

78.404

(1)

	 Amounts subject to pre-regulation (eu) no 575/2013 treatment or prescribed residual amount of regulation (eu) no 575/2013

90

EXK70091

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

31 December 2014 (€’000)
Tier 2 (T2) capital: instruments and provisions
47

Amount at
disclosure date

Amounts
(eu) 575/2013 (1 )

Amount of qualifying items referred to in Article 484 (5)
and the related share premium accounts subject to phase
out from T2

51

Tier 2 (T2) capital before regulatory adjustments

Tier 2 (T2) capital: regulatory adjustments
58

Tier 2 (T2) capital

2.280.099

59

Total capital (TC = T1 + T2)

5.817.895

60

Total risk weighted assets

Capital ratios and buffers
61

Common Equity Tier 1 (as a percentage of risk exposure

78.404

Percentage
37,84%

amount)
62

Tier 1 (as a percentage of risk exposure amount)

39,19%

63

Total capital (as a percentage of risk exposure amount)

39,19%

64

Institution specific buffer requirement (CET1 requirement

7,00%

in accordance with article 92 (1) (a) plus capital
conservation and countercyclical buffer requirements,
plus systemic risk buffer, plus the systemically important
institution buffer (G-SII or O-SII buffer), expressed as a
percentage of risk exposure amount)
65

of which: capital conservation buffer requirement

68

Common Equity Tier 1 available to meet buffers (as a

2,50%
27,28%

percentage of risk exposure amount)
72

Direct and indirect holdings of the capital of financial

154.749

sector entities where the institution does not have a
significant investment in those entities (amount below
10% threshold and net of eligible short positions)
73

Direct and indirect holdings by the institution of the
CET 1 instruments of financial sector entities where the
institution has a significant investment in those entities
(amount below 10% threshold and net of eligible short
positions)

74

Empty Set in the EU

75

Deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences

106.186

(amount below 10% threshold, net of related tax liability
where the conditions in Article 38 (3) are met)
(1)

	 Amounts subject to pre-regulation (eu) no 575/2013 treatment or prescribed residual amount of regulation (eu) no 575/2013

EXK70092 91

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Annex I – Euroclear Bank stand-alone – own funds
31 December 2014 (€’000)
Common Equity Tier 1 capital: instruments and reserves
1

Capital instruments and the related share premium

Amount at
disclosure date

Amounts
(eu) 575/2013 (1 )

843.505

Reference to
balance sheet
a

accounts
of which: Ordinary shares and related share premium

843.505

2

Retained earnings

490.043

d

3

Accumulated other comprehensive income (and other

94.047

b

reserves, to include unrealised gains and losses under the
applicable accounting standards)
6

Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital before regulatory

1.427.595

adjustments
Common Equity
8

Intangible assets (net of related tax liability) (negative

(12)

e

amount)
11

Fair value reserves related to gains or losses on cash flow

-

hedges
12

Negative amounts resulting from the calculation of

(2.266)

expected loss amounts
28

Total regulatory adjustments to Common equity Tier 1

(2.278)

(CET1)
29

Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital

1.425.317

Additional Tier 1 (AT1) capital: instruments
33

Amount of qualifying items referred to in Article 484 (4)

–

–

–

–

0

­–

-

–

1.425.317

–

and the related share premium accounts subject to phase
out from AT1
36

Additional Tier 1 (AT1) capital before regulatory
adjustments

Additional Tier 1 (AT1) capital: regulatory adjustments
43

Total regulatory adjustments to Additional Tier 1 (AT1)
capital

44

Additional Tier 1 (AT1) capital

45

Tier 1 capital (T1 = CET1 + AT1)

(1)

	 Amounts subject to pre-regulation (eu) no 575/2013 treatment or prescribed residual amount of regulation (eu) no 575/2013

92

EXK70093

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

31 December 2014 (€’000)
Tier 2 (T2) capital: instruments and provisions
47

Amount of qualifying items referred to in Article 484 (5)

Amount at
disclosure date

Amounts
(eu) 575/2013 (1 )

82.004

82.004

82.004

82.004

82.004

82.004
82.004

Reference to
balance sheet
f

and the related share premium accounts subject to phase
out from T2
51

Tier 2 (T2) capital before regulatory adjustments

Tier 2 (T2) capital: regulatory adjustments
58

Tier 2 (T2) capital

59

Total capital (TC = T1 + T2)

1.507.321

60

Total risk weighted assets

3.574.296

Capital ratios and buffers
61

Common Equity Tier 1 (as a percentage of risk exposure

Percentage
39,88%

amount)
62

Tier 1 (as a percentage of risk exposure amount)

39,88%

63

Total capital (as a percentage of risk exposure amount)

42,17%

64

Institution specific buffer requirement (CET1 requirement

7,00%

in accordance with article 92 (1) (a) plus capital
conservation and countercyclical buffer requirements,
plus systemic risk buffer, plus the systemically important
institution buffer (G-SII or O-SII buffer), expressed as a
percentage of risk exposure amount)
65

of which: capital conservation buffer requirement

68

Common Equity Tier 1 available to meet buffers (as a

2,50%
31,88%

percentage of risk exposure amount)
72

Direct and indirect holdings of the capital of financial

2.717

sector entities where the institution does not have a
significant investment in those entities (amount below
10% threshold and net of eligible short positions)
73

Direct and indirect holdings by the institution of the
CET 1 instruments of financial sector entities where the
institution has a significant investment in those entities
(amount below 10% threshold and net of eligible short
positions)

74

Empty Set in the EU

75

Deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences
(amount below 10% threshold, net of related tax liability
where the conditions in Article 38 (3) are met)

(1)

	 Amounts subject to pre-regulation (eu) no 575/2013 treatment or prescribed residual amount of regulation (eu) no 575/2013

EXK70094 93

Exhibit
K-7II - Disclosure 2014
Euroclear
plc Basel

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Annex II – Capital instruments’ main features template
Issuer
2

Unique identifier

Euroclear plc
consolidated

Euroclear Bank

xs0219847364

xs0219842563

Belgium and

Belgium and

Luxembourg

Luxembourg

yes

yes

?

?

(eg CUSIP, ISIN or Bloomberg identifier for private placement)
3

Governing law(s) of the instrument Regulatory treatment

4

Transitional CRR rules

5

Post-transitional CRR rules

6

Eligible at solo/(sub-)consolidated/ solo&(sub-)consolidated

consolidated

solo and consolidated

7

Instrument type (types to be specified by each jurisdiction)

perpetual securities

perpetual notes

8

Amount recognised in regulatory capital (Currency in million,

78.404.000

82.004.226

300.000.000

304.500.000

100%

100%

nominal amount

nominal amount

as of most recent reporting date)
9

Nominal amount of instrument

9a

Issue price

9b Redemption price
10

Accounting classification

subordinated liabilities

subordinated liabilities

11

Original date of issuance

08/06/05

08/06/05

12

Perpetual or dated

perpetual

perpetual

13

Original maturity date

n.a.

n.a.

14

Issuer call subject to prior supervisory approval

yes

yes

15

Optional call date, contingent call dates and redemption amount

15/06/2015

15/06/2016

16

Subsequent call dates, if applicable

each 15/03-15/06-15/09-

each 15/03-15/06-15/09-

15/12 after 15/06/2015

15/12 after 15/06/2016

Coupons / dividends

17

94

Fixed or floating dividend/coupon

coupons

coupons

(yearly till 15/06/2015

(yearly till 15/06/2015

and then quarterly)

and then quarterly)

fixed till 15/06/2015

fixed till 15/06/2015 at

at 4.235% and then

4.2% and then floating

floating at Euribor 3

at Euribor 3 months+

months+ 1.83 %

1.7945%

EXK70095

Exhibit K-7

EUROCLEAR
BANK
SA/NV2014
Euroclear plc Basel
II - Disclosure

Issuer
18

Coupon rate and any related index

19

Existence of a dividend stopper

20

Fully discretionary, partially discretionary or mandatory
(in terms of timing)

21

Existence of step up or other incentive to redeem

22

Noncumulative or cumulative

23

Convertible or non-convertible

24

If convertible, conversion trigger(s)

25

If convertible, fully or partially

26

If convertible, conversion rate

27

If convertible, mandatory or optional conversion

28

If convertible, specify instrument type convertible into

29

If convertible, specify issuer of instrument it converts into

30

Write-down features

31

If write-down, write-down trigger(s)

32

If write-down, full or partial

33

If write-down, permanent or temporary

34

If temporary write-down, description of write-up mechanism

35

Position in subordination hierarchy in liquidation
(specify instrument type immediately senior to instrument

36

Non-compliant transitioned features

37

If yes, specify non-compliant features

EXK70096 95

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

© 2015 Euroclear Bank SA/NV, 1 Boulevard du Roi Albert II, 1210 Brussels, Belgium – Tel: +32 (0)2 326 1211 – www.euroclear.com –
RPM Brussels number 0429 875 591 – Euroclear is the marketing name for the Euroclear System, Euroclear plc, Euroclear SA/NV and
their affiliates. If at any time in the future you prefer not to receive communications from Euroclear advising you of Euroclear products
and services that may be of interest to you, please contact us at Data_Protection_Officers@euroclear.com and specify on what product
or service you no longer wish to receive marketing information.
Euroclear is a carbon neutral company – PAS2060 certified in 2015

PA0003

Exhibit K-7

www.euroclear.com

EXK70097

EXHIBIT L

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
FORM CA-1

Attach as Exhibit L a description of the measures or procedures employed by registrant to
provide for the safeguarding of securities and funds in its custody or control. Identify any
instances within the past year in which the described security measures or safeguards failed to
prevent any unauthorized access to securities or funds in possession of registrant and any
measures taken to prevent a recurrence of any such incident.
*

*

*

For a description of Euroclear Bank’s systems safeguards, please refer to Euroclear Bank’s
Disclosure Framework (attached as Exhibit K-5) and Euroclear Bank’s most recent ISAE 3402
Report (attached as Exhibit K-6).
In addition, a well-established asset protection regime exists under Belgian law to safeguard
securities and other instruments held in EB Accounts (including the segregated Collateral
Accounts). For further details regarding asset protection under Belgian law, please refer to pages
22 and 23 of Euroclear Bank’s Disclosure Framework – Observance by Euroclear Bank of the
CPMI-IOSCO Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures, which is attached hereto as
Exhibit K-5.
Euroclear Bank makes available to its participants information describing the applicable asset
protection regimes, including the following documents: Rights of Participants to Securities
Deposited in the Euroclear System (attached as Exhibit L-2); Disclosure Framework (attached as
Exhibit K-5); ISAE 3402 Report (attached as Exhibit K-6); and other documents attached as
Exhibits L-1 and L-3 through L-8.
With regard to the safeguarding of funds, as described in Exhibit S-1, Euroclear Bank is a credit
institution authorized in Belgium and supervised by the NBB. As such, it is subject to relevant
European Union and Belgian laws and regulations providing for the safeguarding of funds held
by authorized credit institutions.

L-1
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EXHIBIT M

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
FORM CA-1

If clearing agency functions are performed by automated facilities or systems, attach as
Exhibit M a description of all backup systems or subsystems which are designed to prevent
interruptions in the performance of any function as a result of technical or other malfunction.
Include backups for input or output links to the system and precautions with respect to
malfunctions in any areas external to the system.
*

*

*

For a description of Euroclear Bank’s backup systems and business continuity and recovery
arrangements, please refer to Euroclear Bank’s Disclosure Framework (attached as Exhibit K-5)
and Euroclear Bank’s most recent ISAE 3402 Report (attached as Exhibit K-6).

Business Impact Analysis (“BIA”) and Business Continuity Plan (“BCP”) Objectives
Euroclear Bank uses a BIA to identify critical activities and their recovery time objectives for
each of its business processes. Under the BIA, threats and risks associated with business process
interruptions are identified and assessed by determining the effect of loss, interruption or
disruption on the functionality of each department and Euroclear Group as a whole. The analysis
considers both the short- and long-term effects of an incident, and identifies dependencies on
people, information, technology and facilities. The output of the BIA is used to formulate BCPs
in accordance with the Operational Risk Board Policy.
BCPs have been developed to cover a number of defined scenarios, including the loss of an
office, loss of staff and IT disaster recovery incident. Each plan contains the following elements:
•

guidelines on how to use the plan;

•

the process to alert and activate the crisis management team;

•

responses and recovery procedures meant to return the business to normal operations
following an incident or disaster;

•

procedures to continue to maintain critical activities following the widespread loss of
staff;

•

communication contact list with stakeholders, employees, key clients, critical
suppliers, stockholders and management; and

•

critical contact information on continuity teams, affected staff, clients, suppliers,
regulatory authorities and members of the media.
M-1
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EXHIBIT M

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

BCP Design
Data Centers
Euroclear Group operates three data centers to provide resilience and help ensure the capability
to recover computerized services following local or regional disasters.
Euroclear Group operates two data centers located at sufficient distance from each other to
mitigate the risk that a single event halts operations. Sites are linked by real-time synchronous
data mirroring and load-balanced networks. The effectiveness of the data centers’ operational
and recovery procedures is verified through the transfer of production activity between sites
multiple times a year (currently six times a year).
A third data center is located in a separate country to provide a regional disaster recovery
capability. This site is asynchronous and enables the resumption of business critical services
within the same business day if a major incident affects the other two sites. The regional
recovery capability is tested annually.
Local and Regional Disaster Recovery
A local disaster recovery is declared following any disaster that affects one data center. In such
circumstances, for high criticality applications, the recovery time objective is two hours and the
recovery point objective is to have zero data loss.
A regional disaster recovery is declared following a failure at both main data centers. In such
circumstances, for high criticality applications, the recovery time objective is four hours and the
recovery point objective is to have data loss of less than one minute (depending upon system
volumes at time of failure, and excluding rolling disasters).
Data loss response plans have been developed by operations specialists to minimize the impact
of data loss while aiming to resume computerized operations in a time period which does not
cause unnecessary strain on market stability. In extreme cases, given the imperative of
maintaining market stability, it may not be possible to recover 100% of all transactions which
were applied to the production system. Therefore, management will monitor reconciliation
activities and will resume operations as circumstances dictate.
Materials and Training
Procedures and checklists are maintained and made available in various ways to enable duty
managers and senior management to effectively manage and control Euroclear Bank’s services in
event of an emergency. “Battle boxes” are securely stored at external locations to ensure that the
BCP and related procedures are available in case of a potential disaster. Standard introductory
training for new employees explicitly covers business continuity responsibilities. BCP

M-2
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EXHIBIT M

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

awareness updates, exercises and training are provided on a regular basis to all employees using
different communication channels and tools.
Systems Development
The systems development methodology includes principles and guidelines regarding
infrastructure and applications resilience for critical infrastructure components and applications.
Compliance to these principles and guidelines is evaluated for every project or change as part of
the production acceptance criteria. The core processing systems and networks are designed to
provide resilience through the use of mechanisms, including mirroring (synchronous) of
production data, using fault-tolerant computers or resolving single points of failure. The
provision of the communication lines is split across a number of telecommunications suppliers to
provide additional protection against single point of failure.
Crisis Management
To help ensure a systematic and coordinated response to disruptive events, Euroclear Bank has
established a three-tiered Bronze-Silver-Gold crisis management structure. These three levels
deal with operational, tactical and strategic issues, respectively.
Each location operates a Silver team, which includes representatives from critical divisions and
can call upon specialist support from Legal, Financial, Security and Risk Management. Silver
teams are concerned with the tactical response to the incident – from the local impact and
criticality assessment to the response implementation with the operational/Bronze level. The
Silver team’s objectives include informing and, where necessary, escalating to the Gold team.
Euroclear Group has a single Gold team for the group composed of the ESA’s Management
Committee and a Euroclear Group spokesperson. It is supported, if required, by the Human
Resources, Legal and Risk Management division heads and by representatives of the local
entities. Gold’s primary function is to provide strategic direction, to manage communication and
to protect the company’s reputation.
Multiple Offices
As noted in Exhibit I, Euroclear Bank has implemented a “multiple office” concept with
geographically dispersed business operations sites in the following locations:
•

one in Brussels and one in its periphery;

•

one in Kraków; and

•

one in Hong Kong.

Key staff is balanced across two or more sites, and operations are conducted from different sites
simultaneously.
M-3
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EXHIBIT M

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

As noted above, Euroclear Bank operates two main data centers fully equipped to provide core
critical production services. The sites are linked by real-time synchronous data mirroring and
load-balanced networks. The critical production services are swapped between these two sites
multiple times a year (currently six times a year), thereby demonstrating their capability to take
over production in the event of a disaster. In addition, the third data center enables the
resumption of business critical services within the same business day of a major incident
affecting both main sites. The regional recovery capability is tested once a year.
Participant communications are load balanced and therefore do not rely on just one data center
for communications in or out. Such communications are automatically redirected to the right
server depending on where the service is running. Virtual IP addressing is used to aid the
failover and avoid the need to change IP addresses.
Review and Validation
The BCP is reviewed annually. A formal BCP test framework is maintained indicating how and
when each element of the plan is tested or otherwise validated. The test framework helps ensure
that all elements of the plan are tested periodically. Each manager has the responsibility to
implement effective BCP solutions in his or her area. The risk management function has the
overall role of coordinating and promoting BCP validation and reviews, which include the
following:
•

IT disaster recovery validation in which live production is transferred between the
two main data centers multiple times a year (currently six times a year) and once per
year to data center three;

•

office switch testing in which the loss of a single office is simulated at least twice a
year for each department running any critical function; and

•

several crisis management exercises per year.

Euroclear Bank participants are made aware of scheduled BCP testing. However, participants
typically do not know from which of the data centers the services are provided, or if there was a
switch of the processing site during a scheduled BCP test. Thus, there is not any particular
action for a participant to take during a BCP test.

M-4
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EXHIBIT N

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
FORM CA-1

Attach as Exhibit N a list of the persons who currently participate, or who have applied for
participation, in registrant’s clearing agency activities (if registrant performs more than one
activity, a columnar presentation may be utilized).
*

*

*

Attached as Exhibit N-1 is a list of all Euroclear Bank participants involved in the clearance or
settlement of Eligible U.S. Government Securities. Attached as Exhibit N-2 is a list of all
persons that have applied for participation in the clearance or settlement of Eligible U.S.
Government Securities as U.S. Participants. Attached as Exhibit N-3 is a list of all Euroclear
Bank participants.

N-1
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EXHIBIT O

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
FORM CA-1

Attach as Exhibit O a description of any specifications, qualifications or other criteria which
limit, are interpreted to limit or have the effect of limiting access to, or use of, any clearing
agency service furnished by the registrant and state the reasons for imposing such specifications,
qualifications or other criteria.
*

*

*

Euroclear Bank’s criteria for all participants in the Euroclear System (including U.S. Participants
using the Clearing Agency Activities) are set forth in the Operating Procedures attached as
Exhibit E-5. Among other things, the Operating Procedures requires an applicant to be
established in a jurisdiction that is not subject to international or European sanctions or that is not
subject to a call for action from the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) in the context of the
fight against money laundering and terrorism financing. As part of the application process, the
applicant must provide adequate information enabling Euroclear Bank to meet the relevant
Belgian anti-money laundering and terrorism financing requirements.
In order to utilize the Clearing Agency Activities, a participant must additionally execute the
relevant documentation provided in Exhibit P. There are no additional specifications,
qualifications or other criteria which limit or restrict participants from utilizing the Clearing
Agency Activities.

O-1
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EXHIBIT P

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
FORM CA-1

Attach as Exhibit P copies of any form of contracts governing the terms on which persons may
subscribe to clearing agency services provided by the registrant.
*

*

*

Attached to this Exhibit P are the agreements governing the terms on which persons may
subscribe to Euroclear Bank’s services that impact Clearing Agency Activities. Also attached to
this Exhibit P are the agreements governing the terms on which persons may subscribe to other
clearance and settlement services that directly relate to the Clearing Agency Activities.
Euroclear Bank’s general Terms and Conditions, Supplementary Terms and Conditions and
Operating Procedures are attached as Exhibit E-3, Exhibit E-4 and Exhibit E-5, respectively.
Exhibit P-1

Single Collateral Management Form of Agreement

Exhibit P-2

Collateral Profile Form

Exhibit P-3

August 2015 Collateral Service Agreement Terms and Conditions

Exhibit P-4

January 2016 Collateral Service Agreement Operating Procedures

Exhibit P-5

August 2015 Derivatives Service Agreement Terms and Conditions

Exhibit P-6

September 2015 Derivatives Service Agreement Operating Procedures

Exhibit P-7

August 2015 Repurchase Service Agreement Terms and Conditions

Exhibit P-8

January 2016 Repurchase Service Agreement Operating Procedures

Exhibit P-9

August 2015 Securities Lending Service Agreement Terms and Conditions

Exhibit P-10 September 2015 Securities Lending Service Agreement Operating
Procedures
Exhibit P-11 August 2015 Loan Service Agreement Terms and Conditions
Exhibit P-12 September 2015 Loan Service Agreement Operating Procedures
Exhibit P-13 2011 Edition Single Pledgor Pledged Account Terms and Conditions
Exhibit P-14 July 2013 Supplementary Terms and Conditions Governing the GC
Access Service (Borrowers’ Version)
Exhibit P-15 June 2015 GC Access Operating Procedures (Borrowers’ Version)
P-1
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

EXHIBIT P

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Exhibit P-16 July 2013 Supplementary Terms and Conditions Governing the GC
Access Service (Lenders’ Version)
Exhibit P-17 August 2015 GC Access Operating Procedures (Lenders’ Version)
Exhibit P-18 August 2015 Collateral Allocation Interface Service Agreement Terms
and Conditions
Exhibit P-19 March 2014 Collateral Allocation Interface Service Agreement Operating
Procedures
With respect to the U.S. Equities Proposal, Euroclear Bank will revise its Operating Procedures
related to collateral services (Exhibit P-4), derivatives services (Exhibit P-5), loan services
(Exhibit P-12), repurchase services (Exhibit P-8), securities lending services (Exhibit P-10) and
collateral allocation interface services (Exhibit P-19). Specifically, the relevant Operating
Procedures will provide that a U.S. Participant may undertake the following: (i) receive and/or
deliver externally U.S. Equities into/from its account only via the securities settlement link
Euroclear Bank has established with DTC; and (ii) receive and/or deliver internally U.S. Equities
into/from its account only when the instructions are entered by Euroclear Bank under the
relevant agreement. The relevant Operating Procedures will further provide that in event of
default, U.S. Equities held by a non-defaulting U.S. Participant in its account could only be:
(i) delivered internally, from its account, to an account of a non-U.S. Participant in Euroclear
Bank, or (ii) delivered externally, from its account, to an account in DTC.

P-2
For definitions, refer to the Glossary of Terms

Exhibit P-1

RG 810

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Form of Agreement

Single Collateral Management Form of Agreement
Purpose and
action to be
taken

Use this form to enter into one or more collateral management service agreement(s).

Parties to this
Agreement

1. The Participant, as specified in the next section.
2. Euroclear Bank (the ‘Bank’), as the collateral management service agent

Participant
information

Company name: ___________________________________________________________ (‘Participant’).

Service(s) to
which this
Agreement
applies

Indicate below if you wish to register for all collateral management services, or only specific collateral
management services.

Please complete this form and post it to:

Euroclear Bank SA/NV
Attention: Triparty Client Service
1 Boulevard du Roi Albert II
B-1210 Brussels – Belgium

All services – tick the box below if you wish to register for all services.

❏ Participant agrees to enter into all collateral management service agreements (Repurchase Service
Agreement, Securities Lending Service Agreement, Derivatives Service Agreement, Loan Service
Agreement, Collateral Service Agreement and Collateral Allocation Interface Service Agreement)
Specific services – tick the relevant service(s) for which you would like to register. Please note that,
if at any time you would like to change your selection, you will be required to complete this form again.

Participant agrees to only enter into the following collateral management service agreement(s):
❏ Repurchase Service Agreement
❏ Securities Lending Service Agreement
❏ Derivatives Service Agreement
❏ Loan Service Agreement
❏ Collateral Service Agreement
❏ Collateral Allocation Interface Service Agreement

The collateral management service agreement(s), including the specific Terms and Conditions, the Operating
Procedures and the Annexes thereto, for which the Participant has opted above, all as amended from time to
time, are to be read and construed as, and together form, one agreement (the ‘Agreement’).
The Participant agrees to be bound by the Agreement and the Agreement is incorporated by reference into and
constitutes an integral part of this Form of Agreement.
Capitalised words used in this Form of Agreement have the meanings assigned to them in the Agreement.
The Participant agrees to enter into the Agreement in the different capacities of the Agreement.
If any provision of this Form of Agreement is inconsistent or in conflict with any provision of the Agreement
(including any provisions to the effect that the Agreement will prevail over any other agreement), this Form of
Agreement will prevail.
Page 1/2

EXP10001

RG 810 - 05/10

Terms and
conditions

Exhibit P-1

RG 810

Authorised
signatures

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Single Collateral Management Form of Agreement

Euroclear Bank

_______________________________________

________________________________________

Name and title of authorised signatory

Authorised signature

_______________________________________

________________________________________

Name and title of authorised signatory

Authorised signature

_______________________________________

________________________________________

Place

Date

Participant

_______________________________________

________________________________________

Name and title of authorised signatory

Authorised signature

_______________________________________

________________________________________

Name and title of authorised signatory

Authorised signature

_______________________________________

________________________________________

Place

Date

Page 2/2

EXP10002

Exhibit P-3

August 2015

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Collateral Service Agreement
Terms and Conditions

Post-trade made easy

EXP30001

Exhibit P-3

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Collateral Service Agreement
Terms and Conditions

(to be read in conjunction with the CSA Operating Procedures)

Table of Contents
1.	 Appointment and Acceptance of the Bank .................................................................. 1
2.	Selections .. .......................................................................................................... 1

(a)	 Eligible Securities and Eligible Cash .......................................................................
(b)	 Eligibility Set Profiles .........................................................................................
(c)	Annexes . . ........................................................................................................
(d)	 Conditional SWIFT Elections . . ..............................................................................
(e)	 Unconditional SWIFT Elections . . ...........................................................................
(f)	 Parties’ obligations in relation to SWIFT Elections . . ....................................................

1
1
1
2
2
2

3.	 Euroclear System .................................................................................................. 2
4.	Representations .................................................................................................... 2

(a)	 Representations of Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker . . ............................................. 2
(b)	 Representations of the Bank . . ................................................................................ 3

5.	Transactions ........................................................................................................ 3

(a)	 Authority of the Bank to Enter Instructions into the Euroclear System . . ............................. 3
(b)	 Authority of the Bank to Use AutoSelect .................................................................. 3
(c)	 Authority of Collateral Giver to Use AutoSelect and
of Collateral Taker to Discontinue AutoSelect . . ...........................................................3
(d)	 AutoSelect Acknowledgements . . ............................................................................ 4
(e)	 Access of Collateral Giver to Collateral Taker’s Reports ............................................... 4
(f)	 Authority for Internet Reporting . . ........................................................................... 4

6.	 Bank Fees . . .......................................................................................................... 4
7.	 Duties and Liabilities of the Bank .............................................................................. 4

(a)	General . . .........................................................................................................
(b)	 Collateral Giver’s and Collateral Taker’s Responsibilities . . ............................................
(c)	 Bank’s Notice and Inquiry . . ..................................................................................
(d)	 Notices to Bank ................................................................................................
(e)	 AutoSelect Allocation .........................................................................................
(f)	 Price Data .......................................................................................................
(g)	 Force Majeure ..................................................................................................

4
5
5
5
6
6
6

8.	Indemnification ..................................................................................................... 6

(a)	 Indemnitor’s Instructions, Default or Breach . . ............................................................
(b)	 Bank’s Performance ...........................................................................................
(c)	 Breach and Related Party Claims .. ..........................................................................
(d)	 Burden of Proof ................................................................................................
(e)	Limitations ......................................................................................................

6
6
6
6
6

CSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP30002

Exhibit P-3

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

9.	 Effect of Certain Events and Disputes ........................................................................ 7

(a)	 Withdrawal of Authorisation, Notice of Default
under the Collateral Agreement or Insolvency ............................................................ 7
(b)	 Continuing Disputes ........................................................................................... 7

10.	Termination . . ........................................................................................................ 7

(a)	 Termination on Notice ........................................................................................
(b)	 Immediate Termination .......................................................................................
(c)	 Termination on Revocation of Representative’s Authority .............................................
(d)	 Delivery after Termination ...................................................................................

7
7
7
8

11.	Confidentiality . . ..................................................................................................... 8
12.	Amendments ........................................................................................................ 8

(a)	 CSA Terms and Conditions ..................................................................................
(b)	 Unilateral Amendment ........................................................................................
(c)	 Unilateral Amendment to Discontinue AutoSelect .......................................................
(d)	 CSA Operating Procedures ...................................................................................
(e)	 Pledged Account Agreement .................................................................................
(f)	 No Waivers .. ....................................................................................................

8
8
8
9
9
9

13.	 Agreement of the Parties .. ....................................................................................... 9
14.	 Applicable Law; Jurisdiction .. ................................................................................... 9
15.	 Waiver of Immunity ................................................................................................ 9
16.	Domicile .............................................................................................................. 9
17.	 Service of Process ............................................................................................... 10
18.	Miscellaneous . . ................................................................................................... 10

(a)	Notices .........................................................................................................
(b)	 Binding Agreement; Assignment and Novation ........................................................
(c)	Severability .. ..................................................................................................
(d)	Representatives ...............................................................................................
(e)	Survival ........................................................................................................
(f)	 Headings and References ...................................................................................

10
10
10
11
11
11

19.	Glossary ............................................................................................................ 11
20.	Effectiveness ...................................................................................................... 14
21.	Counterparts ...................................................................................................... 14

Exhibit 1 – Addresses
Annexes I and II (included in folder)

CSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP30003

Exhibit P-3

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Collateral Service Agreement
The triparty collateral service agreement (the ‘Agreement’) comprises two parts, the CSA Terms and Conditions and the CSA
Operating Procedures.
All references to ‘the Agreement’ or ‘this Agreement’ are to the CSA Terms and Conditions and the CSA Operating Procedures,
both as amended from time to time, which are to be read and construed as, and which together form, one contractual agreement.

CSA Terms and Conditions

1.	 Appointment and Acceptance of the Bank

Collateral Giver or one or more of its Clients (if applicable)
and Collateral Taker or one or more of its Clients (if
applicable) have entered into a collateral agreement under
which Collateral Giver may provide collateral from time to
time to Collateral Taker (as the same be amended from time
to time, the ‘Collateral Agreement’). If Collateral Giver and/
or Collateral Taker is a Representative, it has agreed with
each Client to enter into this Agreement for its benefit.

Each of Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker appoints
the Bank as collateral service agent to carry out the duties
described in this Agreement and to take any actions incidental
to those duties. The Bank accepts such appointment and
consents to act as collateral service agent to carry out only
those duties.

Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker have requested the
Bank to perform certain service functions and procedures in
connection with the provision of collateral by Collateral Giver
or its Client (if applicable). Therefore, in consideration of the
mutual promises included in this Agreement and intending to be
legally bound hereby, the parties agree to the following terms.

2.	Selections

Capitalised words used in these CSA Terms and Conditions
have the meanings assigned to them in Section 19 (Glossary).
Capitalised words used only in the CSA Operating Procedures
have the meanings assigned to them in Chapter 9 (Glossary)
of the CSA Operating Procedures. If any capitalised word
is defined in both these CSA Terms and Conditions and the
CSA Operating Procedures, and the definitions assigned
are inconsistent, the definition in these CSA Terms and
Conditions will prevail. If capitalised terms are used but not
defined, they have the meaning assigned to them in the Terms
and Conditions and the Operating Procedures. The use of the
term ‘type’ with respect to securities means securities with
the same security code and description.

(a)	 Eligible Securities and Eligible Cash

Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker, with the consent of
the Bank, by executing Annexes I and II, have selected in
Annexes I and II Eligible Securities and Eligible Cash, in one
or more sets, to be used with respect to Transactions under
this Agreement.
(b)	 Eligibility Set Profiles

Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker, with the consent of
the Bank, by checking the relevant boxes or filling in the
relevant lines in Annexes I and II and executing Annexes I
and II, have selected certain options, amounts and percentages
applicable to each set of Eligible Securities and Eligible Cash.
If no selection is made with respect to a given option, amount
or percentage, the default selection, as indicated in Annexes I
and II, will apply.
(c)	Annexes

Collateral Giver, Collateral Taker and the Bank agree to the
selections made in Annexes I and II (as the same may be
amended from time to time in accordance with Section 12
(Amendments)). Annexes I and II and any numbered Annexes
to this Agreement form an integral part of this Agreement.

CSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP30004

1

Exhibit P-3

(d)	 Conditional SWIFT Elections

If only Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker executes Annexes
I and II, the provisions of this paragraph (d) and Section 2(e)
and (f) shall apply instead of Section 2(a) to (c).
Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker, with the consent of
the Bank, having completed and executed Annexes I and II,
sends such Annexes to the Bank, indicating the name of the
Eligibility Set and set number (the ‘Completed Annexes’).
The Bank will upon receipt of the Completed Annexes,
provide this documentation to the counterparty Collateral
Giver or Collateral Taker, as indicated by Collateral Giver or
Collateral Taker.
If Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker want to initiate
Transactions on the basis of the Completed Annexes,
Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker shall each send a
SWIFT message to the Bank in a form specified by the Bank
which refers to the (i) name of the Eligibility Set, (ii) set
number, and (iii) account numbers of Collateral Giver and
Collateral Taker.
The elections made in the Completed Annexes and confirmed
by each of the Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker in
a SWIFT message are together the ‘Conditional SWIFT
Elections’.
(e)	 Unconditional SWIFT Elections

Conditional SWIFT Elections will only become binding on
the parties (i) if the Bank notifies Collateral Giver and Collateral
Taker by SWIFT message that it consents to them and (ii)
from the time specified by the Bank in any such notice.
Conditional SWIFT Elections that have become effective
under this Section 2(e) or Section 12(a), together with
the related consenting SWIFT message sent by the
Bank, constitute the ‘Unconditional SWIFT Elections’.
Unconditional SWIFT Elections, as amended or modified
from time to time, form an integral part of this Agreement.
Collateral Giver, Collateral Taker and the Bank agree that
the Unconditional SWIFT Elections may be amended or
modified from time to time in accordance with Section 12
(Amendments).
(f)	

Parties’ obligations in relation to SWIFT Elections

(i)	 The Bank agrees to maintain a record of all Unconditional
SWIFT Elections which have, from time to time, come
into effect under this Agreement and any unilateral
amendments or modifications to such Unconditional
SWIFT Elections made under Section 12(b).
(ii)	 The parties agree not to object to the admission as
evidence in any legal proceedings of any Unconditional
SWIFT Elections and any unilateral amendments or
modifications to such Unconditional SWIFT Elections
made under Section 12(b).

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

3.	 Euroclear System
Each of Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker acknowledges
that securities and cash credited to Collateral Giver’s Account
or any Collateral Taker’s Account are held in the Euroclear
System pursuant to the Terms and Conditions and the
Operating Procedures.
4.	Representations
(a)	 Representations of Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker

Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker each represents to the
Bank and to each other, as of the date of this Agreement and
as of each date on which a Transaction is outstanding, that:
(i)	 it is duly organised and existing under the laws of the
jurisdiction of its organisation with full power and
authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to
perform all the duties and obligations to be performed by
it under this Agreement;
(ii)	 the execution, delivery and performance by it of this
Agreement have been duly authorised, in accordance
with all requisite corporate action, and this Agreement
is a legal, valid and binding obligation of it enforceable
in accordance with its terms, except as such terms may
be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws, or
by equitable principles relating to or limiting creditors’
rights generally;
(iii)	 the execution, delivery and performance by it of this
Agreement have been and will be duly authorised by all
necessary governmental and other approvals, including
exchange control approvals;
(iv)	 the execution, delivery, and performance by it of this
Agreement and the transactions contemplated under this
Agreement do not and will not violate or constitute a
default under any agreement by which it is bound, or its
constitutional documents, or any statute, regulation, rule,
order or judgment applicable to it (including any statute,
regulation, rule, order or judgment relating to taxes);
(v)	 it has (and if it is a Representative, it has been granted
by each Client for whose benefit it has entered into the
Collateral Agreement and, if any Client is a party to
the Collateral Agreement as of such date, such Client
has) the power and authority to enter into the Collateral
Agreement and the transactions undertaken pursuant
thereto;

CSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP30005

2

Exhibit P-3

(vi)	 to the extent that the Collateral Agreement authorises
rehypothecation or other disposal or use of any Collateral
Securities, it has carried out its own independent
investigation as to, and agrees that it is solely
responsible for, the validity under Belgian law of any 	
rehypothecation or other disposal or use of any Collateral
Securities effected by Collateral Taker;
(vii)it has the power and authority to deliver and transfer the
securities and cash delivered or transferred and to take
any other action hereunder and, if it is a Representative,
each Client has authorised it to execute and deliver this
Agreement and to take all such actions hereunder for
such Client’s benefit; and
(viii) in the case of Collateral Giver, if it is a Representative
and has selected the AutoSelect Processing option in
one or more sets of Annexes I and II or by way of the
Unconditional SWIFT Elections, either:
(A)	 (x) it is not acting for the benefit of more than one
Client under this Agreement and (y) it is not acting
through Collateral Giver’s Account for the benefit of
any other client under another Triparty Agreement; or
(B)	 it has received from each such Client or client a
specific authorisation to engage in transactions under
Triparty Agreements for the benefit of other clients
out of the same Collateral Giver’s Account.
(b)	 Representations of the Bank

The Bank represents to each of Collateral Giver and
Collateral Taker, as of the date of this Agreement and as of
each date on which a Transaction is outstanding, that:
(i)	 it is duly organised and existing under the laws of
Belgium with full power and authority to execute and
deliver this Agreement and to perform all the duties and
obligations to be performed by it under this Agreement;
(ii)	 the execution, delivery and performance by it of this
Agreement have been duly authorised, in accordance
with all required corporate action, and this Agreement
is a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Bank
enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as
such terms may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency
or similar laws, or by equitable principles relating to or
limiting creditors’ rights generally; and
(iii)	 the execution, delivery, and performance of this
Agreement will not violate or constitute a default under
any agreement by which it is bound, or its constitutional
documents, or any Belgian statute, regulation, rule, order
or judgment applicable to it.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

5.	Transactions
(a)	 Authority of the Bank to Enter Instructions into the
Euroclear System

Each of Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker authorises the
Bank to enter or cancel instructions on its behalf into the
Euroclear System and to take all other actions in connection
with such instructions in accordance with the terms of this
Agreement. Without limiting the foregoing, Collateral Taker
authorises the Bank to accept, subject to the satisfaction of
any relevant conditions, the written notices of Collateral Giver
identifying Securities and/or Cash to be transferred pursuant
to the CSA Operating Procedures until receipt by the Bank of
written notice of withdrawal of any such authorisation.
(b)	 Authority of the Bank to Use AutoSelect

If Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker have selected the
AutoSelect Processing option in one or more sets of Annexes
I and II or by way of the Unconditional SWIFT Elections, and
Collateral Taker has not discontinued AutoSelect pursuant
to Section 12(c) (Unilateral Amendment to Discontinue
AutoSelect), each of Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker
authorises the Bank to select Securities on its behalf and
deliver them to the other in accordance with the AutoSelect
Methodology, as described in Chapter 6 (AutoSelect
Processing Methodology) of the CSA Operating Procedures,
with respect to AutoSelect Transactions assigned to the
corresponding Eligibility Set(s).
(c)	 Authority of Collateral Giver to Use AutoSelect and of
Collateral Taker to Discontinue AutoSelect

If Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker have selected the
AutoSelect Processing option in one or more sets of Annexes
I and II or by way of the Unconditional SWIFT Elections, and
Collateral Taker has not discontinued AutoSelect pursuant
to Section 12(c) (Unilateral Amendment to Discontinue
AutoSelect), Collateral Taker authorises the Bank to
accept the written notice of Collateral Giver identifying
or converting an AutoSelect Transaction or a Manual
Transaction assigned to the corresponding Eligibility Set
pursuant to the procedures set forth in the CSA Operating
Procedures; provided, however, that:
(i)	 if Collateral Taker gives the Bank a notice to convert
an AutoSelect Transaction to a Manual Transaction
prior to the relevant deadline indicated in the Timetable,
the Bank will process the Transaction as a Manual
Transaction beginning on the Business Day indicated in
the Timetable, and
(ii)	 if Collateral Taker has amended this Agreement to
discontinue the use of AutoSelect for one or more
Eligibility Sets or for all Eligibility Sets by providing a
notice pursuant to Section 12(c) (Unilateral Amendment
to Discontinue AutoSelect), the Bank will process
all Transactions in those Eligibility Sets as Manual
Transactions beginning at the time that amendment is
effective.

CSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP30006

3

Exhibit P-3

Until the time, if any, that the Bank receives a notice from
Collateral Taker stating that it is willing to resume AutoSelect
processing of the Transaction (or of all the Transactions), the
Bank will not process the Transaction(s) as an AutoSelect
Transaction even if Collateral Giver gives the Bank a notice
to convert the Transaction to an AutoSelect Transaction.
Collateral Taker will send to Collateral Giver a copy of
any notice it gives to the Bank to convert an AutoSelect
Transaction to a Manual Transaction or to discontinue
AutoSelect for all Transactions in one or more Eligibility Sets
or all Eligibility Sets, but the failure of Collateral Taker to do
so will not affect the Bank’s obligations under the previous
two paragraphs. Collateral Giver will have no right to contest
Collateral Taker’s notice to the Bank. The Bank will send to
Collateral Giver a copy of Collateral Taker’s notice as soon as
reasonably practicable.
(d)	 AutoSelect Acknowledgements

(i)	 Each of Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker
acknowledges that instructions with respect to AutoSelect
Transactions (if any) are being generated and entered by
the Bank on behalf of Collateral Giver and Collateral
Taker in accordance with the AutoSelect Methodology
and such other procedures consistent therewith as agreed
to from time to time by Collateral Giver and the Bank
and that such instructions are generated and entered only
to the extent Securities are, in accordance with such
procedures, available for allocation and transfer.
(ii)	 Each of Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker
acknowledges that each of them may enter into other
Triparty Agreements with the Bank under which
AutoSelect processing is used for transactions.
(e)	 Access of Collateral Giver to Collateral Taker’s Reports

Collateral Taker agrees to provide Collateral Giver access
to information on future income payments and redemptions
relating to Collateral Securities that the Euroclear Operator
provides to Collateral Taker in accordance with the Operating
Procedures through Euroclear Advance Notice of Income and
Redemption (ANIR) reports, or any similar successor report.
Collateral Taker also agrees to provide Collateral Giver
access to provisional and definitive details about upcoming
option deadlines and corporate events affecting securities held
in Collateral Taker’s Account(s) through Euroclear DACE
reports that the Euroclear Operator provides to Collateral
Taker in accordance with the Operating Procedures, or any
similar successor report.
(f)	

Authority for Internet Reporting

Each of Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker authorises the
other to access, and the Bank to make available through the
Internet, the Internet Reports.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

6.	 Bank Fees
Unless otherwise agreed, Collateral Giver agrees to pay to
the Bank all fees relating to Collateral Taker’s Account(s)
and all amounts (other than keying, query and communication
fees, which will be payable by the user thereof) relating to
this Agreement, in each case as such amounts are set forth
in monthly billing statements sent by the Bank to Collateral
Giver in accordance with the Euroclear Tariff, as in effect
from time to time. Amounts payable by Collateral Giver
will be debited from Collateral Giver’s Account or such
other Cash Account as Collateral Giver may specify by
written notice to the Bank from time to time or, if no such
Cash Account has been duly specified, any Cash Account of
Collateral Giver. Amounts payable by Collateral Taker will
be debited from Collateral Taker’s Account or such other cash
account as Collateral Taker may specify by written notice to
the Bank from time to time or, if no such cash account has
been duly specified, any cash account of Collateral Taker.
No amount may be debited from any account which is subject
to the Pledged Account Agreement, and a party with such
an account must specify in writing another account for the
purposes of debiting amounts under this Section 6.

7.	 Duties and Liabilities of the Bank
(a)	General

(i)	 The Bank has no obligations except as expressly set out
in this Agreement.
(ii)	 The Bank is not liable to Collateral Giver or Collateral
Taker for any Losses arising in connection with:
(A)	 any event or matter referred to in paragraphs (i), (ii)
or (iii) of Section 8(a) (Indemnitor’s Instructions,
Default or Breach) or paragraphs (i) or (ii) of
Section 8(b) (Bank’s Performance) or Section 9
(Effect of Certain Events and Disputes) of this
Agreement, or Section 12(c) of the Terms and
Conditions; or
(B)	 any act or omission of the Bank in connection with
this Agreement, except in the case of its negligence
or wilful misconduct.
(iii)	 The Bank is not liable to anyone for unforeseeable
Losses, Losses not flowing directly and naturally from
a breach of this Agreement or Losses representing loss
of profit, except in the case of its wilful misconduct and
then only to Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker.
(iv)	 In the event of any dispute, Collateral Giver or Collateral
Taker, as the case may be, bears the burden of proving
negligence or wilful misconduct by the Bank.
(v) The Bank is not liable to anyone for any Losses arising
in connection with this Agreement, the Collateral
Agreement, the Pledged Account Agreement (if
applicable) or any other related agreement except, but
only to the extent specified in paragraphs (ii) and (iii)
above, to Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker.
CSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP30007

4

Exhibit P-3

(vi)	Acceptance of securities into the Euroclear System
is governed by the Operating Procedures and not this
Agreement. Acceptance and setting up new securities for
use in the services described in this Agreement is not part
of the services which the Bank agrees to provide pursuant
to this Agreement.
(vii) All warranties, conditions and other terms implied by
statute or common law are, to the fullest extent permitted
by law, excluded from this Agreement.
(b)	 Collateral Giver’s and Collateral Taker’s Responsibilities

The Bank makes no representation regarding, need not
inquire into, does not guarantee and is not liable to anyone
for any Losses arising in connection with the following, all
of which are Collateral Giver’s and/or Collateral Taker’s sole
responsibility:
(i)	 the title, validity or genuineness of any Security;
(ii)	 the legality of the delivery or transfer of any Cash or
Security;
(iii)	 the correctness of any financial or other information
derived by the Bank, in connection with its duties under
this Agreement, from any source nominated or approved
by Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker;
(iv)	 the due authorisation of any person to act on behalf of
Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker in connection with
Eligible Cash or Eligible Securities held in Collateral
Giver’s Account or Collateral Cash or Collateral
Securities held in any Collateral Taker’s Account;
(v)	 the capacity and authority of a Representative to act for
the benefit of any Client;
(vi)	 the characterisation of any Security as a Net Paying
Security or the eligibility of any Security as a Collateral
Security under the Collateral Agreement;
(vii)	the validity or enforceability of, or any statement or
representation made by Collateral Giver and/or Collateral
Taker in connection with, this Agreement, the Collateral
Agreement, the Pledged Account Agreement (if
applicable) or any other related agreement;
(viii)the performance of the obligations of Collateral
Giver or Collateral Taker under this Agreement, the
Collateral Agreement, the Pledged Account Agreement
(if applicable) or any other related agreement or the
performance of any Client (if applicable) under the
Collateral Agreement or any other related agreement;
(ix)	 an extension of credit in connection with any
Transaction;
(x)	 the settlement of instructions entered into the Euroclear
System; or

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(xi)	 the value (or the sufficiency of the value) of any
Securities delivered or transferred.
(c)	 Bank’s Notice and Inquiry

Except as expressly set out in this Agreement, the Bank:
(i)	 will be deemed to have no notice of, and need not
inquire into, any transaction between Collateral Giver
and Collateral Taker (or one or more of their respective
Clients, if applicable) under the Collateral Agreement
or otherwise or the performance or breach of this
Agreement, the Collateral Agreement, the Pledged
Account Agreement (if applicable) or any other related
agreement; and
(ii)	 need not give Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker notice
of any breach by Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker
of this Agreement or any breach by Collateral Giver
or Collateral Taker (or one or more of their respective
Clients, if applicable) of the Collateral Agreement, the
Pledged Account Agreement (if applicable) or any other
related agreement.
(d)	 Notices to Bank

(i)	 The Bank may rely on any notice or data from Collateral
Giver or Collateral Taker under this Agreement and is
not liable to anyone for any Losses arising in connection
with:
(A)	 unsigned notices, or the unauthorised signing or
giving of written or oral notices by any person, or
the unauthorised alteration of them or of any other
instrument;
(B)	 the incorrectness or incompleteness of information
(including, without limitation, in relation to the
amount of any credit exposure under the Collateral
Agreement) in any notice; or
(C)	 the incorrectness or incompleteness of data
transmitted by computer tape or terminal or other
computer facility, unless, and to the extent that, the
Bank actually knows (x) that the notice or data was
not sent by Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker; (y)
of the lack of authority; or (z) that the information or
data was incorrect.
(ii)	 The Bank is not liable to anyone for any Losses arising in
connection with:
(A)	 any notices sent otherwise than in accordance with
Section 18(a) (Notices);
(B)	 its acting upon oral notice reasonably believed by
it to be from a person acting on behalf of Collateral
Giver or Collateral Taker, as the case may be, or on
data received over any electronic system whereby
the receiver is able to verify by code or otherwise
with reasonable certainty the identity of the sender
of such communication, even if subsequent written
notices differ from such oral or data notices; or
(C)	 its acceptance of, and its acting, in its discretion,
upon, notices from Collateral Giver or Collateral
Taker received after the deadlines set out in the
Timetable.

CSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP30008

5

Exhibit P-3

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(e)	 AutoSelect Allocation

(b)	 Bank’s Performance

(f)	

(i)	 any act or omission of the Bank in connection with this
Agreement or the Terms and Conditions; or

The Bank makes no representation that any allocations of
securities or cash generated by AutoSelect in accordance
with this Agreement will represent the optimal allocation of
securities or cash among all AutoSelect Transactions or all
counterparties of Collateral Giver. The Bank is not liable to
anyone for any Losses arising in connection with securities
not being optimally allocated.
Price Data

The Bank is not liable to anyone for any Losses arising in
connection with any error by, or any incorrect price received
from, any pricing or other information source used by the
Euroclear Operator in its ordinary course of business or
the appropriateness or relative change of any price and
need not determine volatility factors with respect to or the
appropriateness of any price.
(g)	 Force Majeure

If the Bank acts or fails to act (including, without limitation,
fails to receive or deliver, or cause to be received or delivered,
Securities or fails to receive or make, or cause to be received
or made, any payment) as a result of or in connection with
Force Majeure, such action or failure is not a breach of this
Agreement and the Bank is not liable to anyone for Losses
arising in connection with such action or failure.

8.	Indemnification
(a)	 Indemnitor’s Instructions, Default or Breach

Subject to Section 8(e), Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker
(in each case, the ‘Indemnitor’) will promptly upon demand
by the Bank release, defend, indemnify and hold harmless
each Indemnified Party for and against Losses or Claims
suffered by that Indemnified Party arising in connection with:
(i)	 the Bank’s execution of instructions based on that
Indemnitor’s notices;
(ii)	 the Bank’s failure or delay, in whole or in part, to take
any action to be taken under this Agreement or otherwise
to fulfil any of its obligations under this Agreement, to
the extent that such failure or delay arises in connection
with the negligence or willful misconduct of that
Indemnitor or any Related Party of that Indemnitor; or
(iii)	 any breach by that Indemnitor or any Related Party of
that Indemnitor of any provision of this Agreement or
any law, decree, regulation or order of any government
or governmental body (including any court or tribunal),
except, subject to Section 8(c)(i), Losses or Claims arising out
of the negligence or willful misconduct of the Bank.

Subject to Section 8(e), Collateral Giver and Collateral
Taker will, promptly upon demand by the Bank, jointly and
severally, release, defend, indemnify and hold harmless each
Indemnified Party for and against Losses and Claims, other
than Losses or Claims against which the Bank is indemnified
under Section 8(a), suffered by such Indemnified Party arising
in connection with:

(ii)	 the performance of obligations under Belgian or other
applicable law in connection with this Agreement or the
Terms and Conditions,
except, subject to Section 8(c)(ii), Losses or Claims arising
out of the negligence or wilful misconduct of the Bank.
(c)	 Breach and Related Party Claims

(i)	 The exception to Section 8(a) does not apply in respect of:
(A)	 Losses or Claims suffered by the Indemnified Party
arising as a result of any breach as referred to in
Section 8(a)(iii); or
(B)	 Losses caused or Claims made or brought by any
Related Party of the Indemnitor.
(ii)	 The exception to Section 8(b) does not, in relation to
Collateral Giver or (as the case may be) Collateral Taker,
apply in respect of Losses caused or Claims made or
brought by any Related Party, respectively, of Collateral
Giver or Collateral Taker.
(d)	 Burden of Proof

The party from whom the Bank is seeking an indemnity under
Section 8(a) or Section 8(b) bears the burden of proving:
(i)	 the negligence or wilful misconduct of the Bank for the
purposes of the exception to Section 8(a) or Section 8(b),
respectively; or
(ii)	 the application, if any, of Section 8(e).
(e)	Limitations

The party from whom the Bank is seeking an indemnity under
Section 8(a) or Section 8(b) is not liable in respect of:
(i)	 Losses caused or Claims made or brought by:
(A)	 any third party (other than any Related Party of
the party from whom the Bank is seeking such an
indemnity); or
(B)	 the other party to this Agreement or any Related
Party of that other party; or
(ii)	 Losses caused by an event or circumstance constituting
Force Majeure and which is beyond the reasonable
control of the party from whom the Bank is seeking such
an indemnity.

CSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP30009

6

Exhibit P-3

9.	 Effect of Certain Events and Disputes
(a)	 Withdrawal of Authorisation, Notice of Default under the
Collateral Agreement or Insolvency

The Bank will, to the extent permitted by applicable law,
cease entering any instructions into the Euroclear System
pursuant to this Agreement as soon as reasonably practicable
after the receipt by the Bank of:
(i)	 any written notice of a withdrawal by Collateral Giver
or Collateral Taker of its authorisation(s) under Section
5(a) (Authority of the Bank to Enter Instructions into the
Euroclear System);

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The dispute or conflict will be deemed to continue and the
Bank will be entitled to refuse to act or comply until either:
(i)	 the conflicting or adverse claims or demands have been
determined in a court of competent jurisdiction or settled
by agreement among the conflicting parties and/or such a
court; or
(ii)	 the Bank has received security or an indemnity
satisfactory to it sufficient to hold it harmless from and
against any and all Losses which it may incur by reason
of taking any action directly or indirectly in connection
with this Agreement.

(ii)	 any written notice of default with respect to Collateral
Giver or Collateral Taker or one or more of their Clients,
if applicable, under the Collateral Agreement sent by
Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker to the Bank (unless
and until Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker, as the case
may be, withdraws such notice of default by notice to the
Bank); or

The Bank may assume that no disputes or conflicting claims
or notices exist unless it has received a copy of a written
notice thereof sent by Collateral Giver to Collateral Taker or
by Collateral Taker to Collateral Giver.

(iii)	 any written notice from Collateral Giver or Collateral
Taker that it has filed for bankruptcy or declared that it is
insolvent or bankrupt or that it has become the subject of
any involuntary proceeding in respect of its insolvency or
bankruptcy,

10.	Termination

provided that, in each case, the Bank will enter instructions
in accordance with (x) subsequent matching notices from
Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker to the Bank or (y) a
final order (whether or not subject to appeal) of a court of
competent jurisdiction.
(b)	 Continuing Disputes

In the event of any other (x) dispute between or conflicting
claims, demands, notices or instructions by Collateral Giver,
Collateral Taker, a Client and/or any other person or (y)
conflicting notices by Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker,
with respect to any cash credited to any Collateral Taker’s
Account or to Collateral Giver’s Account, any Securities,
Collateral Giver’s Account or any Collateral Taker’s Account
(other than withdrawals of authorisation, notices of default
or filings for or declarations of insolvency or bankruptcy
notified to the Bank pursuant to Section 9(a) the Bank may
decline to comply with any and all claims, demands, notices
or instructions or to take any action hereunder with respect
to the cash, the Securities, Collateral Giver’s Account or
Collateral Taker’s Account as long as that dispute or conflict
is continuing. The Bank will not be liable for any Losses
arising out of such failure to act or to comply with such
claims, demands, notices or instructions.

(a)	 Termination on Notice

Except as provided in Section 18(e) (Survival), this
Agreement may be terminated by any party hereto on 30
Business Days’ written notice to the other parties. In spite of
any such notice of termination, this Agreement will remain
applicable to any Transactions then outstanding.
(b)	 Immediate Termination

The Bank may terminate this Agreement immediately with
respect to all outstanding Transactions and all proposed
transactions in the event that:
(i)	 any representation made by Collateral Giver or Collateral
Taker in this Agreement will have been incorrect or
untrue in any material respect when made or repeated or
deemed to have been made or repeated;
(ii)	 Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker ceases to be a
Participant in the Euroclear System; or
(iii)	 the Collateral Agreement or the Pledged Account
Agreement (if applicable) is terminated.
(c)	 Termination on Revocation of Representative’s Authority

If a Representative’s authority to take action hereunder
for the benefit of a Client is revoked by such Client, such
Representative may, by giving written notice (which notice
shall be conclusive evidence of such revocation for the
purposes of this Agreement) to the Bank specifying the
relevant outstanding Transactions, terminate this Agreement
immediately with respect to such outstanding Transactions
between Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker, and all such
proposed transactions between Collateral Giver and Collateral
Taker, in each case, as have been, or are proposed to be,
entered into for the benefit of such Client.

CSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP30010

7

Exhibit P-3

In addition, if the Bank receives written notice from a
Representative or its Client that such Representative’s
authority as aforesaid has been revoked by such Client, the
Bank may, in its discretion, by giving notice to Collateral
Giver and Collateral Taker either:
(i)	 terminate this Agreement immediately with respect to all
outstanding Transactions and all proposed transactions; o
(ii)	 terminate this Agreement immediately with respect to
such outstanding Transactions and all such proposed
transactions, in each case, as have been, or are proposed
to be, entered into for the benefit of such Client.
(d)	 Delivery after Termination

Upon the effectiveness of any termination of this Agreement
as aforesaid, or as soon thereafter as is reasonably practicable,
the Bank will, unless otherwise directed by Collateral Giver
and Collateral Taker and subject to Section 9 (Effect of
Certain Events and Disputes) of this Agreement and subject
to Section 14(d) of the Terms and Conditions, cause to be
delivered to Collateral Taker any amounts of Collateral Cash
and Collateral Securities then credited to any Collateral
Taker’s Account and to Collateral Giver any amounts of cash
and securities then credited to Collateral Giver’s Account.

11.	Confidentiality
The Bank represents to each of Collateral Giver and
Collateral Taker that information which reveals or relates to,
or which would permit the determination of the Euroclear
securities positions of, or Transactions by, Collateral
Giver and/or its Client and Collateral Taker and/or any of
its Clients, respectively (including any future or planned
securities positions or transactions), or the type and amount
of any Collateral Securities, will only be used by the Bank in
connection with the operation of the Euroclear System or the
provision of banking services to Collateral Taker or Collateral
Giver, as the case may be.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Bank may, where it is bound
by the law of any territory or country or pursuant to any
requirement of any regulatory body, disclose any information
or produce any document in its possession or control. If the
Bank discloses information concerning Collateral Giver and/
or its Client (if applicable) or Collateral Taker and/or any
of its Clients (if applicable) to any such regulatory body,
the Bank will inform Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker,
as appropriate, unless the Bank may not do so or has been
requested not to do so by such regulatory authority.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

12.	Amendments
(a)	 CSA Terms and Conditions

These CSA Terms and Conditions may only be amended or
modified by a written agreement executed by the parties and
the Annexes I and II may be amended or modified only by a
written agreement, except as set forth in paragraphs (b), (c)
and (d) below. Unconditional SWIFT Elections may only be
amended or modified by:
(i)	 establishing a new set of Unconditional SWIFT
Elections, in place of the then current Unconditional
SWIFT Elections, by repeating the procedure set out in
Section 2(d) and (e); or
(ii)	 complying with the procedures for unilateral amendment
set out in paragraph (b) below.
An amendment under this Section 12(a) is effective when
the Bank notifies Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker that
it is effective.
(b)	 Unilateral Amendment

Collateral Taker may, upon notice to and with the consent
of the Bank, amend Annexes I and II to include in Eligible
Securities one or more types of security, identified by ISIN or
Common Code, without the agreement of Collateral Giver.
Collateral Giver may, upon notice to and with the consent of
the Bank, amend Annexes I and II to exclude from Eligible
Securities, for a stated period or until a subsequent notice of
Collateral Giver is given (with the consent of the Bank) to
include such Eligible Securities again, one or more types of
security, identified by ISIN or Common Code, without the
agreement of Collateral Taker.
The Bank may, upon notice to Collateral Giver and Collateral
Taker, amend Annexes I and II to exclude any security
or securities from Eligible Securities or any currency or
currencies from Eligible Cash without the agreement of
Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker.
An amendment under this Section 12(b) must be in writing,
which may include a facsimile or SWIFT message, and will
be effective when the Bank notifies Collateral Giver and
Collateral Taker that it is effective.
(c)	 Unilateral Amendment to Discontinue AutoSelect

Collateral Taker may at any time, by giving notice to the
Bank before the deadline indicated in the Timetable for
Allocation Mode Management (as defined in the CSA
Operating Procedures), amend this Agreement to discontinue
the use of AutoSelect, without the agreement of Collateral
Giver or the Bank, for one or more Eligibility Sets or for all
Eligibility Sets, effective as of the Business Day indicated in
the Timetable.

CSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP30011

8

Exhibit P-3

(d)	 CSA Operating Procedures

The Bank may amend the CSA Operating Procedures at
any time by notice to Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker.
Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker will be deemed
to have agreed to and accepted any such amendment (i)
effective immediately, if the amendment does not adversely
affect Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker or (ii) effective
30 Business Days after the Bank sends it, for any other
amendment.
(e)	 Pledged Account Agreement

Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement and
except for Sections 6 (Bank Fees), 7 (Duties and Liabilities
of the Bank) and 8 (Indemnification) of this Agreement,
no provision of this Agreement (including, without
limitation, Section 18(f)(ii) (Headings and References)
affects any right or obligation under the Pledged Account
Agreement (if applicable). Collateral Taker agrees that the
acknowledgements made in its capacity as Pledgee in Section
3(e) of the Pledged Account Agreement shall be deemed to
be made by Collateral Taker as if set out in full and as if the
reference to ‘Section 5 of the Pledged Account Terms and
Conditions’ in such Section 3(e) were a reference to ‘this
Agreement’.
(f)	

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Agreement or its subject matter or formation (including noncontractual disputes or claims) and that, accordingly, any
suit, action or proceeding arising out of or in connection with
this Agreement or its subject matter or formation (including
non-contractual disputes or claims) may be brought in such
Courts. Nothing contained in this Section 14 will limit the
right of the Bank to take any such suit, action or proceeding
against each of Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker or both
in any other court of competent jurisdiction nor will the taking
of such suit, action or proceeding in one or more jurisdictions
preclude the taking of any such suit, action or proceeding in
any other jurisdiction by the Bank whether concurrently or not,
to the extent permitted by the law of such other jurisdiction.
The Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker waive (and agree
not to raise) any objection, on the ground of forum non
conveniens or any other ground, to the taking of proceedings
by the Bank in any court in accordance with this Section 14.
The Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker also agree that a
judgment against one or both of them in the Bank’s favour in
proceedings brought in any jurisdiction in accordance with
this Section 14 shall be conclusive and binding upon them
and may be enforced in any other jurisdiction.

No Waivers

No waiver, or acceptance of performance other than as
provided in this Agreement, on the part of any party will be a
waiver, or acceptance of such performance, in the future. The
Bank’s acceptance, in its discretion, of any notice or notices
from Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker received after the
relevant deadline set out in the Timetable does not oblige it to
accept any such notice so received in the future.

13.	 Agreement of the Parties
If any provision of this Agreement is inconsistent or in
conflict with any provision of the Collateral Agreement
(including any provisions to the effect that such Collateral
Agreement will prevail over any other agreement), this
Agreement will prevail.

14.	 Applicable Law; Jurisdiction
This Agreement and any dispute or claim arising out of
or in connection with it or its subject matter or formation
(including non-contractual disputes or claims) will be
governed by and construed in accordance with English law.

15.	 Waiver of Immunity
Each of Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker waives, to
the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, all immunity
(on the basis of sovereignty or otherwise) from jurisdiction,
attachment (both before and after judgment) and execution
to which it might otherwise be entitled in any suit, action or
proceeding in the Courts of England or of any other country
or jurisdiction relating in any way to this Agreement and
agrees that it will not raise, claim or cause to be pleaded any
such immunity at or in respect of any such suit, action or
proceeding.

16.	Domicile
Each of Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker elects domicile
in Belgium at the Bank for the purpose of any suit, action
or proceeding in Belgium arising out of or relating to this
Agreement and will appoint promptly on request from
the Bank authorised agents in London for the purpose of
receiving service of process in any such suit, action or
proceeding in England.

Each of Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker irrevocably
agrees for the exclusive benefit of the Bank that the Courts
of England are to have jurisdiction to settle any disputes or
claims which may arise out of or in connection with this

CSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP30012

9

Exhibit P-3

17.	 Service of Process
Each of Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker consents to the
service of any and all process, notices or other documents
which may be served in any such suit, action or proceeding
either:
(i)	 by mailing a copy thereof to its address referred to in
Section 18(a) (Notices) by registered or certified mail;
(ii)	 by serving a copy thereof at its domicile in Belgium
or upon any agent for service appointed as provided in
Section 16 (Domicile) (whether or not the election of
domicile or the appointment of such agent for service
of process will for any reason prove to be ineffective
or such agent will fail to accept or acknowledge such
service) and mailing a copy thereof to its address referred
to in Section 18(a) (Notices) by registered or certified
mail; or
(iii)	 in any other manner permitted by applicable law.
Each of Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker waives all
claims of error by reason of any service in accordance with
this Section 17 and agrees that such service (x) will be
deemed in every respect effective service of process upon it
and (y) will be taken and held to be valid personal service
upon and personal delivery to it.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Chapter 3 (Transaction Processing) of the CSA Operating
Procedures contains the Timetable, setting out the deadlines
by which the various notices must be received by the Bank
for processing. The Bank may, in its sole discretion, attempt
to process notices received or validated after the deadlines
set forth in the Timetable. Notices will be effective from the
time they are actually received by the intended recipient by
telephone, facsimile, EUCLID, EasyWay or SWIFT or any
other means designated by the Bank.
In any situation in which this Agreement requires written
notice, the Bank may but is not required to act on oral notice
reasonably believed by it to be notice of a person acting on
behalf of Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker or, for the
purposes of Section 10(c) (Termination on Revocation of
Representative’s Authority), a Client or a person purporting
to be a Client, as the case may be, or on data received over
any electronic system whereby the receiver is able to verify
by code or otherwise with reasonable certainty the identity
of the sender of such communication. Collateral Giver
and Collateral Taker shall confirm in writing any oral or
electronic data notice. Failure to confirm in writing or any
conflict between subsequent written notices and oral or
data notices will not affect the authority of any acts taken
or omitted by the Bank pursuant to oral or electronic data
notices. The Bank reserves the right to record telephone
conversations with Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker and to
refer to such recordings in the event of any dispute. Nothing
in this paragraph permits oral amendments to this Agreement.
(b)	 Binding Agreement; Assignment and Novation

18.	Miscellaneous
(a)	Notices

Unless otherwise specified herein, notices required by this
Agreement must be in writing (which will include, without
limitation, facsimile, EUCLID, EasyWay or SWIFT ).
Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker agree that any notices
given under this Agreement will be sent to the Bank to the
attention of ‘Collateral Management Administration’ at the
address set forth in Exhibit 1 or to the attention of such other
contact at such other address as the Bank may from time to
time designate to Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker in
writing. The Bank is not required to comply with and is not
deemed to have any notice or knowledge of any notice sent
by any Client. Any notice to Collateral Giver or Collateral
Taker authorised or required by this Agreement will be
addressed to the persons indicated at the addresses set forth in
Exhibit 1 or to such other person or persons as the receiving
party may from time to time designate to the other parties in
writing.

The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon
and inure to the benefit of the Bank, Collateral Giver and
Collateral Taker and their respective successors and assigns
(including any trustee, conservators or other officers of the
court in any bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding), subject to
the next paragraph.
The rights and obligations of each party under this Agreement
may not be assigned or novated without the written consent of
the other parties and any assignment or novation without such
consent will be null and void.
(c)	Severability

Each provision and agreement in this Agreement will be
separate from any other provision or agreement in this
Agreement and will be enforceable, notwithstanding the
unenforceability of any other provision or agreement.

CSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP30013

10

Exhibit P-3

(d)	Representatives

Despite the fact that any Representative is acting for the
benefit of any Client in connection with this Agreement:
(i)	 that Representative will have and be entitled to assert
any claim, counterclaim or defence in connection with
this Agreement or the Bank’s performance of services
under this Agreement only to the extent that it has or is
entitled to assert that claim, counterclaim or defence in
its capacity as a principal party to this Agreement;
(ii)	 that Representative shall be liable for the performance
of all its obligations and for all its indemnities given
under this Agreement, including but not limited to the
indemnity contained in Section 8 (Indemnification), as a
principal party to this Agreement;
(iii)	 no Client is a party to this Agreement and no Client
will have any rights under or in connection with this
Agreement against the Bank; and
(iv)	 the Bank will have obligations under or in connection
with this Agreement only to Collateral Giver and
Collateral Taker and will not be liable to any Client
under or in connection with this Agreement in any
manner whatsoever (including, without limitation, in
contract or in tort).
(e)	Survival

All releases, limitations of liability and indemnifications
provided in this Agreement will survive the termination of
this Agreement.
(f)	

Headings and References

(i)	 The headings and captions in this Agreement are for
reference only and will not affect the construction or
interpretation of any of its provisions.
(ii)	 Notwithstanding the use of expressions ‘Collateral
Giver’, ‘Collateral Giver’s Account’, ‘Collateral Taker’,
‘Collateral Taker’s Account’ and ‘collateralised’, nothing
in this Agreement shall create, or shall be construed to
create, in favour of any party any mortgage, charge, lien,
pledge, encumbrance or other security interest over or in
any Collateral Cash or Collateral Securities.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

19.	Glossary
References in this Agreement to the singular include the
plural, and vice versa.
The following words, as used in this Agreement, have the
following meanings:
‘Agreement’ has the meaning set forth in the first sentence of
this Agreement.
‘AutoSelect’ means an electronic processing module owned
by the Bank designed to facilitate the selection of securities
for Triparty Agreements.
‘AutoSelect Methodology’ means the method by which
the AutoSelect processing module selects securities to
be transferred between Collateral Giver’s Account and
counterparty accounts, as described in Chapter 6 (AutoSelect
Processing Methodology) of the CSA Operating Procedures.
‘AutoSelect Processing’ means an option in Annexes I
and II which determines whether or not Collateral Giver
and Collateral Taker may use AutoSelect processing of
Transactions in an Eligibility Set under this Agreement.
‘AutoSelect Transaction’ means a Transaction that is
processed by the Bank using AutoSelect.
‘Bank’ means Euroclear Bank, and its successors and assigns,
as collateral service agent under this Agreement.
‘Business Day’ means a day when the operation of the
Euroclear System takes place.
‘Cash’ means Eligible Cash or Collateral Cash.
‘Claims’ means any claim, demand, action, investigation or
administrative proceeding made or brought by an Indemnitor
or any Related Party of that Indemnitor in connection with
this Agreement.
‘Client’ means each person other than Collateral Giver or
Collateral Taker:
•	 who has entered into, or who will enter into, the
Collateral Agreement with Collateral Giver or Collateral
Taker; or
•	 for whose benefit Collateral Giver or its Client (if
applicable) or Collateral Taker or its Client (if applicable)
has entered into, or will enter into, the Collateral
Agreement,
and for whose benefit Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker has
entered into the Pledged Account Agreement (if applicable)
and has entered into, or will enter into, this Agreement.
‘Collateral Agreement’ has the meaning given in the
preamble to the CSA Terms and Conditions.

CSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP30014

11

Exhibit P-3

‘Collateral Cash’ means, with respect to a Transaction:
•	 the Eligible Cash, if any, credited with respect to such
Transaction to the relevant Collateral Taker’s Account; or
•	 a sum of money equivalent to the proceeds from the
redemption of any Collateral Security or proceeds
received as consideration upon a takeover or similar event
with respect to any Collateral Security,
increased or decreased by any cash credited or debited, as
the case may be, to the relevant Collateral Taker’s Account
from time to time with respect to such Transaction pursuant
to a substitution of Eligible Securities for Collateral Cash,
a Transaction-size decrease pursuant to this Agreement or a
closing pursuant to this Agreement.
‘Collateral Giver’ has the meaning set forth in the first
sentence of this Agreement.
‘Collateral Giver’s Account’ means a Securities Clearance
Account in the Euroclear System in the name of Collateral
Giver and the Cash Account in the Euroclear System in the
name of Collateral Giver associated therewith, the number
of which is indicated in the Annexes, which will be used for
Securities and Cash, respectively, with respect to Transactions
and which in each case will be designated a ‘client account’
if Collateral Giver has entered into this Agreement for the
benefit of one Client.
‘Collateral Securities’ means, with respect to any Transaction:
•	 the Eligible Securities credited with respect to such
Transaction to the relevant Collateral Taker’s Account
as of the relevant Initiation Date (as defined in the CSA
Operating Procedures), increased or decreased by any
Securities credited or debited, as the case may be, to
of from that Collateral Taker’s Account from time to
time with respect to such Transaction pursuant to this
Agreement; or
•	 Equivalent Securities thereto.
‘Collateral Taker’ has the meaning set forth in the first
sentence of this Agreement.
‘Collateral Taker’s Account’ means the Securities Clearance
Account (or, in the case of Multiple Collateral Taker
Accounts, one of such Securities Clearance Accounts) in
the Euroclear System in the name of Collateral Taker and
the Cash Account in the Euroclear System in the name of
Collateral Taker associated therewith, the number of which
is indicated in Annexes I and II , which will be used only for
Securities and Cash, respectively, with respect to Transactions
under this Agreement and which in each case shall be
designated a ‘client account’ if Collateral Taker has entered
into this Agreement for the benefit of one or more Clients.
.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

‘CSA Operating Procedures’ means the Collateral Service
Agreement Operating Procedures, as amended from time to
time, which, together with the CSA Terms and Conditions,
form one contractual agreement.
‘CSA Terms and Conditions’ means these Collateral Service
Agreement Terms and Conditions, which, together with the
CSA Operating Procedures, form one contractual agreement.
‘Eligibility Set’ means the Eligible Securities and Eligible
Cash identified in each set of Annexes I and II or by way
of the Unconditional SWIFT Elections, as such Annexes or
Unconditional SWIFT Elections may be amended from time
to time, and the options, amounts and percentages selected
in the corresponding set of Annexes I and II or by way of
the Unconditional SWIFT Elections, as such Annexes or
Unconditional SWIFT Elections may be amended from time
to time.
‘Eligible Cash’ means on any date:
•	 any Settlement Currency which Collateral Giver and
Collateral Taker have designated as the securities
denomination currency of an Eligible Security in the
applicable Eligibility Set in Annexes I and II or by way
of the Unconditional SWIFT Elections, as such Annexes
or Unconditional SWIFT Elections may be amended from
time to time; and
•	 if any such currency has been replaced by the euro,
the euro; and
•	 with respect to a Transaction, the Transaction Currency
of that Transaction.
‘Eligible Securities’ means on any date any of the Eurocleareligible securities of a type which Collateral Giver and
Collateral Taker have agreed, with the consent of the Bank,
will be eligible as of such date to become Collateral securities
for a Transaction by their inclusion in the applicable set in
Annexes I and II or by way of the Unconditional SWIFT
Elections, as such Annexes or Unconditional SWIFT
Elections may be amended from time to time, and as may be
limited by certain options in the corresponding set of Annexes
I and II or by way of the Unconditional SWIFT Elections,
as such Annexes or Unconditional SWIFT Elections may be
amended from time to time.

CSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP30015

12

Exhibit P-3

‘Equivalent Securities’ means, with respect to any
Transaction:
•	 securities of the same issuer, being of an identical type,
nominal value, description and amount to the Collateral
Securities with respect to such Transaction; or
•	 in relation to Collateral Securities which are partly paid
or have been converted, subdivided, consolidated, made
the subject of a takeover, capitalisation issue, rights issue,
redenomination or event similar to any of the foregoing,
the following:
-	 in the case of conversion, subdivision or
consolidation, securities equivalent to the securities
into which the Collateral Securities have been
converted, subdivided or consolidated;
-	 in the case of takeover, securities equivalent to the
consideration or alternative consideration received;
-	 in the case of a call on partly paid securities,
securities equivalent to the paid-up securities;
-	 in the case of a capitalisation issue, securities
equivalent to the Collateral Securities together with
the securities allotted by way of bonus thereon;
-	 in the case of a rights issue, securities equivalent to
the Collateral Securities together with the securities
allotted in respect thereof;
-	 in the event that income in the form of securities,
or a certificate which may at a future date be
exchanged for securities or an entitlement to acquire
securities is distributed, securities equivalent to
the Collateral Securities together with securities or
a certificate or an entitlement equivalent to those
allotted;
-	 in the case of a redenomination into euro (and a
related renominalisation, if applicable), securities of
the same issuer, being of an identical type, nominal
value, description and amount to the redenominated
(and renominalised, if applicable) Collateral
Securities; and
-	 in the case of any event similar to any of the
foregoing, securities equivalent to the Collateral
Securities together with or replaced by securities
or other property equivalent to that received in
respect of such Collateral Securities resulting from
such event.
‘Euroclear-eligible securities’ means, at any time, any of the

securities accepted at that time for deposit into the Euroclear
System in accordance with the Operating Procedures.

‘Euroclear Operator’ means Euroclear Bank, and its
successors and assigns, acting in the capacity of operator of
the Euroclear System.
‘Euroclear System’ means the clearance system for
internationally traded securities operated under contract by the
Euroclear Operator.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

‘Euroclear Tariff’ means the Euroclear Tariff folder (which
includes a general fees brochure and specific tariff sheets)
distributed to all Participants, as may be amended from time
to time.
‘Force Majeure’ means any event or circumstance beyond the
reasonable control of the Bank, including, without limitation,
war, insurrection, riot, civil commotion, act of God, accident,
fire, water damage, explosion, mechanical breakdown,
computer or systems failure or other equipment failure,
failure or malfunctioning of any communications media
for whatever reason (whether or not such media are made
available to Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker by the Bank),
interruption (partial or total) of power supply or other utility
or service, strike or other labour stoppage (partial or total)
and any law, decree, regulation or order of any government or
governmental body (including any court or tribunal).
‘Indemnified Party’ means each of the Bank, its officers,
directors and employees.
‘Indemnitor’ means Collateral Giver, or Collateral Taker, as
the case may be.
‘Intended Transaction Amount’ means, with respect to a
Transaction, the amount indicated as such in the matching
initiation notice:
•	 increased by the amount proposed to be transferred from
Collateral Giver’s Account to Collateral Taker’s Account
in one or more matching notices of Transaction-size
increase; and
•	 decreased by the amount proposed to be transferred from
Collateral Taker’s Account to Collateral Giver’s Account
in one or more matching notices of Transaction-size
decrease or pursuant to a closing.
‘Internet Report’ means the internet report made available at
the website of the Euroclear System by the Bank as described
in Chapter 5 (Reporting by the Bank) of the CSA Operating
Procedures to recipients subscribing for the service in a
separate subscription agreement.
‘Losses’ means, in relation to any person, any losses,
liabilities, obligations, fines, penalties, damages, taxes (other
than taxes on the overall income of such person), costs,
expenses (to the extent reasonable and other than ordinary
administrative expenses) or fees (including reasonable
counsel’s fees and accountant’s fees) of any kind or nature
whatsoever at any time.
‘Manual Transaction’ means a Transaction that is not an
AutoSelect Transaction.
‘Multiple Collateral Taker Accounts’ means an option in
Annexes I and II which determines whether or not Collateral
Taker may open more than one Collateral Taker’s Account.

CSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP30016

13

Exhibit P-3

‘Net Paying Security’ means any security with respect to
which any interest, dividend or other distribution payable
by the issuer to either Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker is
required by law to be paid subject to withholding or deduction
for or on account of taxes or duties of any nature imposed,
levied, collected, withheld or assessed by any authority
having power to tax.
‘Operating Procedures’ means the Operating Procedures of
the Euroclear System established in accordance with Section
3 of the Terms and Conditions, as such Operating Procedures
may be amended from time to time.
‘Pledged Account Agreement’ means the Acceptance
Agreement to the Single Pledgor Pledged Account Terms
and Conditions.
‘Related Party’ in respect of an Indemnitor means any
agent (including employees of such agent), employee, client
(including Clients) or any other person for whose benefit
or on whose behalf that Indemnitor acts or who acts for the
benefit of or on behalf of that Indemnitor.
‘Representative’ means either or each of Collateral Giver and
Collateral Taker if it has entered into, or will enter into, this
Agreement for the benefit of one or more Clients.
‘Securities’ means Eligible Securities or Collateral Securities.
‘Settlement Currency’ at any time means any of the currencies

accepted at that time in the Euroclear System as a Settlement
Currency in accordance with the Operating Procedures.
‘Terms and Conditions’ means the Terms and Conditions
Governing Use of Euroclear, as amended from time to time.

‘Timetable’ means the table of deadlines set forth in Chapter 3
(Transaction Processing) of the CSA Operating Procedures,
as amended from time to time.
‘Transaction’ means any provision of collateral governed by
the Collateral Agreement, the Pledged Account Agreement
(if applicable) and this Agreement.
‘Transaction Currency’ means, with respect to a Transaction,
the currency in which the Intended Transaction Amount is
denominated.
‘Triparty Agreement’ means an agreement among two
Participants and the Bank under which the Bank serves as
service agent.
‘Unconditional SWIFT Elections’ has the meaning set forth
in section 2(e) of this Agreement.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

20.	Effectiveness
(A)	 This Agreement will become binding upon Collateral
Giver, Collateral Taker and the Bank if:
(i)	 the Bank has executed this Agreement, previously
signed by Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker; and
(ii)	 the Bank has received from Collateral Taker the
duly authorised and executed documentation relating
to the opening of Collateral Taker’s Account (or, in
the case of Multiple Collateral Taker Accounts, the
opening of all such accounts); and
(iii)	 the Bank has notified Collateral Giver and Collateral
Taker that the Agreement is effective.
(B)	 Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (A) above,
this Agreement will also become binding upon Collateral
Giver, Collateral Taker and the Bank if:
(i)	 the Collateral Giver and the Bank have executed
the Form of Agreement RG 810 specifying (a)
the Collateral Service Agreement under ‘Specific
services’ or (b) all collateral management service
agreements under ‘All services’ or such other form
and in such manner as may be specified by the
Bank; and
(ii)	 the Collateral Taker and the Bank have executed
the Form of Agreement RG 810 specifying (a)
the Collateral Service Agreement under ‘Specific
services’ or (b) all collateral management service
agreements under ‘All services’ or such other form
and in such manner as may be specified by the
Bank; and
(iii)	 either Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker have
duly executed Annexes I and II and the provisions
of Sections 2(d), (e) and (f) of this Agreement are
complied with in relation to such Annexes; and
(iv)	 the Bank has received from Collateral Taker the
duly authorised and executed documentation relating
to the opening of the Collateral Taker Account (or,
in the case of Multiple Collateral Taker Accounts,
the opening of all such accounts); and
(v)	 the Bank has notified Collateral Giver and Collateral
Taker that the Agreement is effective.

21.	Counterparts
This Agreement may be executed in any number of
counterparts, each of which will be deemed to be an original,
and all of which together will be one agreement.

CSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP30017

14

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

© 2015 Euroclear Bank SA/NV, 1 Boulevard du Roi Albert II, 1210 Brussels, Belgium – Tel: +32 (0)2 326 1211 –
RPM Brussels number 0429 875 591 – Euroclear is the marketing name for the Euroclear System, Euroclear plc,
Euroclear SA/NV and their affiliates.
Euroclear is a carbon neutral company – PAS2060 certified in 2015

LG036

Exhibit P-3

www.euroclear.com

EXP30018

Exhibit P-5

August 2015

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Derivatives Service Agreement
Terms and Conditions

Post-trade made easy

EXP50001

Exhibit P-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Derivatives Service Agreement
Terms and Conditions

(to be read in conjunction with the DSA Operating Procedures)

Table of Contents
1.	 Appointment and Acceptance of the Bank .................................................................. 1
2.	Selections ............................................................................................................ 1

(a)	 Eligible Securities and Eligible Cash .......................................................................
(b)	 Eligibility Set Profiles .........................................................................................
(c)	Annexes . . ........................................................................................................
(d)	 Conditional SWIFT Elections . . ..............................................................................
(e)	 Unconditional SWIFT Elections . . ...........................................................................
(f)	 Parties’ obligations in relation to SWIFT Elections ......................................................

1
1
2
2
2
2

3.	 Euroclear System .................................................................................................. 2
4.	Representations .................................................................................................... 2

(a)	 Representations of Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker . . ............................................. 2
(b)	 Representations of the Bank . . ................................................................................ 3

5.	Transactions ........................................................................................................ 3

(a)	 Authority of the Bank to Enter Instructions into the Euroclear System ..............................
(b)	 Authority of the Bank to Use AutoSelect ..................................................................
(c)	 Authority of Collateral Giver to Use AutoSelect and
of Collateral Taker to Discontinue AutoSelect . . ..........................................................
(d)	 AutoSelect Acknowledgements . . ............................................................................
(e)	 Access of Collateral Giver to Collateral Taker’s Reports ...............................................
(f)	 Authority for Internet Reporting . . ...........................................................................

3
3
4
4
4
4

6.	 Bank Fees . . .......................................................................................................... 4
7.	 Duties and Liabilities of the Bank .............................................................................. 5

(a)	General . . .........................................................................................................
(b)	 Collateral Giver’s and Collateral Taker’s Responsibilities . . ............................................
(c)	 Bank’s Notice and Inquiry . . ..................................................................................
(d)	 Notices to Bank ................................................................................................
(e)	 AutoSelect Allocation .........................................................................................
(f)	 Price Data .......................................................................................................
(g)	 Force Majeure ..................................................................................................

5
5
5
6
6
6
6

8.	Indemnification ..................................................................................................... 6

(a)	 Indemnitor’s Instructions, Default or Breach . . ............................................................
(b)	 Bank’s Performance ...........................................................................................
(c)	 Breach and Related Party Claims .. ..........................................................................
(d)	 Burden of Proof ................................................................................................
(e)	Limitations ......................................................................................................

6
6
7
7
7

DSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP50002

Exhibit P-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

9.	 Effect of Certain Events and Disputes ........................................................................ 7

(a)	 Withdrawal of Authorisation, Notice of Default
under the Master Agreement or Insolvency .. .............................................................. 7
(b)	 Continuing Disputes ........................................................................................... 7

10.	Termination . . ........................................................................................................ 8

(a)	 Termination on Notice ........................................................................................
(b)	 Immediate Termination .......................................................................................
(c)	 Termination on Revocation of Representative’s Authority .............................................
(d)	 Delivery after Termination ...................................................................................

8
8
8
8

11.	Confidentiality . . ..................................................................................................... 8
12.	Amendments ........................................................................................................ 9

(a)	 DSA Terms and Conditions ..................................................................................
(b)	 Unilateral Amendment ........................................................................................
(c)	 Unilateral Amendment to Discontinue AutoSelect .......................................................
(d)	 DSA Operating Procedures . . .................................................................................
(e)	 Pledged Account Agreement .................................................................................
(f)	 No Waivers .. ....................................................................................................

9
9
9
9
9
9

13.	 Agreement of the Parties .. ....................................................................................... 9
14.	 Applicable Law; Jurisdiction .. ................................................................................. 10
15.	 Waiver of Immunity .............................................................................................. 10
16.	Domicile ............................................................................................................ 10
17.	 Service of Process ............................................................................................... 10
18.	Miscellaneous . . ................................................................................................... 10

(a)	Notices .........................................................................................................
(b)	 Binding Agreement; Assignment and Novation ........................................................
(c)	Severability .. ..................................................................................................
(d)	Representatives ...............................................................................................
(e)	Survival ........................................................................................................
(f)	 Headings and References ...................................................................................

10
11
11
11
11
11

19.	Glossary ............................................................................................................ 12
20.	Effectiveness ...................................................................................................... 15
21.	Counterparts ...................................................................................................... 15

Exhibit 1 – Addresses
Annexes I and II (included in folder)

DSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP50003

Exhibit P-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Derivatives Service Agreement
The triparty derivatives service agreement (the ‘Agreement’) comprises two parts, the DSA Terms and Conditions and the DSA
Operating Procedures.
All references to ‘the Agreement’ or ‘this Agreement’ are to the DSA Terms and Conditions and the DSA Operating Procedures,
both as amended from time to time, which are to be read and construed as, and which together form, one contractual agreement

DSA Terms and Conditions

1.	 Appointment and Acceptance of the Bank

Collateral Giver or one or more of its Clients (if applicable)
and Collateral Taker or one or more of its Clients (if
applicable) have entered into an ISDA Master Agreement,
as supplemented by either the ISDA Credit Support Annex
(subject to English law) or the ISDA Credit Support Annex
(subject to New York law) or the ISDA Credit Support Deed
(subject to English law) to the ISDA Master Agreement
(collectively, as the same be amended from time to time, the
‘Master Agreement’). If Collateral Giver and/or Collateral
Taker is a Representative, it has agreed with each Client to
enter into this Agreement for its benefit.

Each of Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker appoints the
Bank as derivatives credit support service agent to carry
out the duties described in this Agreement and to take any
actions incidental to those duties. The Bank accepts such
appointment and consents to act as derivatives credit support
service agent to carry out only those duties.

Pursuant to and in accordance with the terms of the Master
Agreement, certain amounts may be due from time to time
to Collateral Taker or its Client (if applicable) by Collateral
Giver or its Client (if applicable). Collateral Taker or its
Client (if applicable) and Collateral Giver or its Client
(if applicable) have agreed that such amounts shall be
collateralised by specified credit support provided by
Collateral Giver or its Client (if applicable).
Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker have requested the
Bank to perform certain service functions and procedures
in connection with the credit support provided by Collateral
Giver or its Client (if applicable). Therefore, in consideration
of the mutual promises included in this Agreement and
intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree to the
following terms.

2.	Selections
(a)	 Eligible Securities and Eligible Cash

Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker, with the consent of
the Bank, by executing Annexes I and II, have selected in
Annexes I and II Eligible Securities and Eligible Cash, in one
or more sets, to be used with respect to Transactions under
this Agreement.
(b)	 Eligibility Set Profiles

Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker, with the consent of
the Bank, by checking the relevant boxes or filling in the
relevant lines in Annexes I and II and executing Annexes I
and II, have selected certain options, amounts and percentages
applicable to each set of Eligible Securities and Eligible Cash.
If no selection is made with respect to a given option, amount
or percentage, the default selection, as indicated in Annexes I
and II, will apply.

Capitalised words used in these DSA Terms and Conditions
have the meanings assigned to them in Section 19 (Glossary).
Capitalised words used only in the DSA Operating Procedures
have the meanings assigned to them in Chapter 9 (Glossary)
of the DSA Operating Procedures. If any capitalised word
is defined in both these DSA Terms and Conditions and the
DSA Operating Procedures, and the definitions assigned
are inconsistent, the definition in these DSA Terms and
Conditions will prevail. If capitalised terms are used but not
defined, they have the meaning assigned to them in the Terms
and Conditions and the Operating Procedures. The use of the
term ‘type’ with respect to securities means securities with
the same security code and description.

DSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP50004

1

Exhibit P-5

(c)	Annexes

Collateral Giver, Collateral Taker and the Bank agree to the
selections made in Annexes I and II (as the same may be
amended from time to time in accordance with Section 12
(Amendments)). Annexes I and II and any numbered Annexes
to this Agreement form an integral part of this Agreement.
(d)	 Conditional SWIFT Elections

If only Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker executes Annexes
I and II, the provisions of this paragraph (d) and Section 2(e)
and (f) shall apply instead of Section 2(a) to (c).
Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker, with the consent of
the Bank, having completed and executed Annexes I and II,
sends such Annexes to the Bank, indicating the name of the
Eligibility Set and set number (the ‘Completed Annexes’).
The Bank will upon receipt of the Completed Annexes,
provide this documentation to the counterparty Collateral
Giver or Collateral Taker, as indicated by Collateral Giver or
Collateral Taker.
If Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker want to initiate
Transactions on the basis of the Completed Annexes, Collateral
Giver and Collateral Taker shall each send a SWIFT message
to the Bank in a form specified by the Bank which refers to
the (i) name of the Eligibility Set, (ii) set number, and (iii)
account numbers of Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(f)	

Parties’ obligations in relation to SWIFT Elections

(i)	 The Bank agrees to maintain a record of all
Unconditional SWIFT Elections which have, from time
to time, come into effect under this Agreement and
any unilateral amendments or modifications to such
Unconditional SWIFT Elections made under Section
12(b).
(ii)	 The parties agree not to object to the admission as
evidence in any legal proceedings of any Unconditional
SWIFT Elections and any unilateral amendments or
modifications to such Unconditional SWIFT Elections
made under Section 12(b).

3.	 Euroclear System
Each of Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker acknowledges
that securities and cash credited to Collateral Giver’s Account
or any Collateral Taker’s Account are held in the Euroclear
System pursuant to the Terms and Conditions and the
Operating Procedures.

4.	Representations

The elections made in the Completed Annexes and confirmed
by each of the Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker in
a SWIFT message are together the ‘Conditional SWIFT
Elections’.

(a)	 Representations of Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker

(e)	 Unconditional SWIFT Elections

(i)	 it is duly organised and existing under the laws of the
jurisdiction of its organisation with full power and
authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to
perform all the duties and obligations to be performed by
it under this Agreement;

Conditional SWIFT Elections that have become effective
under this Section 2(e) or Section 12(a), together with
the related consenting SWIFT message sent by the
Bank, constitute the ‘Unconditional SWIFT Elections’.
Unconditional SWIFT Elections, as amended or modified
from time to time, form an integral part of this Agreement.
Collateral Giver, Collateral Taker and the Bank agree that
the Unconditional SWIFT Elections may be amended or
modified from time to time in accordance with Section 12
(Amendments).

(ii)	 the execution, delivery and performance by it of this
Agreement have been duly authorised, in accordance
with all requisite corporate action, and this Agreement
is a legal, valid and binding obligation of it enforceable
in accordance with its terms, except as such terms may
be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws, or
by equitable principles relating to or limiting creditors’
rights generally;

Conditional SWIFT Elections will only become binding on the
parties (i) if the Bank notifies Collateral Giver and Collateral
Taker by SWIFT message that it consents to them and (ii)
from the time specified by the Bank in any such notice.

Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker each represents to the
Bank and to each other, as of the date of this Agreement and
as of each date on which a Transaction is outstanding, that:

(iii)	 the execution, delivery and performance by it of this
Agreement have been and will be duly authorised by all
necessary governmental and other approvals, including
exchange control approvals;

DSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP50005

2

Exhibit P-5

(iv)	 the execution, delivery, and performance by it of this
Agreement and the transactions contemplated under this
Agreement do not and will not violate or constitute a
default under any agreement by which it is bound, or its
constitutional documents, or any statute, regulation, rule,
order or judgment applicable to it (including any statute,
regulation, rule, order or judgment relating to taxes);
(v)	 it has (and if it is a Representative, it has been granted
by each Client for whose benefit it has entered into the
Master Agreement and, if any Client is a party to the
Master Agreement as of such date, such Client has) the
power and authority to enter into the Master Agreement
and the transactions undertaken pursuant thereto;
(vi)	 to the extent that the Master Agreement authorises
rehypothecation or other disposal or use of any Collateral
Security, it has carried out its own independent
investigation as to, and agrees that it is solely
responsible for, the validity under Belgian law of any
rehypothecation or other disposal or use of any Collateral
Security effected by Collateral Taker;
(vii)	it has the power and authority to deliver and transfer the
securities and cash delivered or transferred and to take
any other action hereunder and, if it is a Representative,
each Client has authorised it to execute and deliver this
Agreement and to take all such actions hereunder for
such Client’s benefit; and
(viii) in the case of Collateral Giver, if it is a Representative
and has selected the AutoSelect Processing option in
one or more sets of Annexes I and II or by way of the
Unconditional SWIFT Elections, either:
	
(A)	 (x) it is not acting for the benefit of more than one
Client under this Agreement and (y) it is not acting
through Collateral Giver’s Account for the benefit of
any other client under another Triparty Agreement;
or
(B)	 it has received from each such Client or client a
specific authorisation to engage in transactions under
Triparty Agreements for the benefit of other clients
out of the same Collateral Giver’s Account.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(b)	 Representations of the Bank

The Bank represents to each of Collateral Giver and
Collateral Taker, as of the date of this Agreement and as of
each date on which a Transaction is outstanding, that:
(i)	 it is duly organised and existing under the laws of
Belgium with full power and authority to execute and
deliver this Agreement and to perform all the duties and
obligations to be performed by it under this Agreement;
(ii)	 the execution, delivery and performance by it of this
Agreement have been duly authorised, in accordance
with all required corporate action, and this Agreement
is a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Bank
enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as
such terms may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency
or similar laws, or by equitable principles relating to or
limiting creditors’ rights generally; and
(iii)	 the execution, delivery, and performance of this
Agreement will not violate or constitute a default under
any agreement by which it is bound, or its constitutional
documents, or any Belgian statute, regulation, rule, order
or judgment applicable to it.

5.	Transactions
(a)	 Authority of the Bank to Enter Instructions into the
Euroclear System

Each of Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker authorises the
Bank to enter or cancel instructions on its behalf into the
Euroclear System and to take all other actions in connection
with such instructions in accordance with the terms of this
Agreement. Without limiting the foregoing, Collateral Taker
authorises the Bank to accept, subject to the satisfaction of
any relevant conditions, the written notices of Collateral Giver
identifying Securities and/or Cash to be transferred pursuant
to the DSA Operating Procedures until receipt by the Bank of
written notice of withdrawal of any such authorisation.
(b)	 Authority of the Bank to Use AutoSelect

If Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker have selected the
AutoSelect Processing option in one or more sets of Annexes
I and II or by way of the Unconditional SWIFT Elections, and
Collateral Taker has not discontinued AutoSelect pursuant
to Section 12(c) (Unilateral Amendment to Discontinue
AutoSelect), each of Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker
authorises the Bank to select Securities on its behalf and
deliver them to the other in accordance with the AutoSelect
Methodology, as described in Chapter 6 (AutoSelect
Processing Methodology) of the DSA Operating Procedures,
with respect to AutoSelect Transactions assigned to the
corresponding Eligibility Set(s).

DSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP50006

3

Exhibit P-5

(c)	 Authority of Collateral Giver to Use AutoSelect and of
Collateral Taker to Discontinue AutoSelect

If Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker have selected the
AutoSelect Processing option in one or more sets of Annexes
I and II or by way of the Unconditional SWIFT Elections, and
Collateral Taker has not discontinued AutoSelect pursuant
to Section 12(c) (Unilateral Amendment to Discontinue
AutoSelect), Collateral Taker authorises the Bank to accept
the written notice of Collateral Giver identifying or converting
an AutoSelect Transaction or a Manual Transaction assigned
to the corresponding Eligibility Set pursuant to the procedures
set forth in the DSA Operating Procedures; provided,
however, that:
(i)	 if Collateral Taker gives the Bank a notice to convert
an AutoSelect Transaction to a Manual Transaction
prior to the relevant deadline indicated in the Timetable,
the Bank will process the Transaction as a Manual
Transaction beginning on the Business Day indicated in
the Timetable, and

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(ii)	 Each of Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker
acknowledges that each of them may enter into other
Triparty Agreements with the Bank under which
AutoSelect processing is used for transactions.
(e)	 Access of Collateral Giver to Collateral Taker’s Reports

Collateral Taker agrees to provide Collateral Giver access
to information on future income payments and redemptions
relating to Collateral Securities that the Euroclear Operator
provides to Collateral Taker in accordance with the Operating
Procedures through Euroclear Advance Notice of Income and
Redemption (ANIR) reports, or any similar successor report.
Collateral Taker also agrees to provide Collateral Giver
access to provisional and definitive details about upcoming
option deadlines and corporate events affecting securities held
in Collateral Taker’s Account(s) through Euroclear DACE
reports that the Euroclear Operator provides to Collateral
Taker in accordance with the Operating Procedures, or any
similar successor report.

(ii)	 if Collateral Taker has amended this Agreement to
discontinue the use of AutoSelect for one or more
Eligibility Sets or for all Eligibility Sets by providing a
notice pursuant to Section 12(c) (Unilateral Amendment
to Discontinue AutoSelect), the Bank will process
all Transactions in those Eligibility Sets as Manual
Transactions beginning at the time that amendment is
effective.

(f)	

Until the time, if any, that the Bank receives a notice from
Collateral Taker stating that it is willing to resume AutoSelect
processing of the Transaction (or of all the Transactions), the
Bank will not process the Transaction(s) as an AutoSelect
Transaction even if Collateral Giver gives the Bank a notice
to convert the Transaction to an AutoSelect Transaction.

Unless otherwise agreed, Collateral Giver agrees to pay to the
Bank all fees relating to Collateral Taker’s Account(s) and
all amounts (other than keying, query and communication
fees, which will be payable by the user thereof) relating to
this Agreement, in each case as such amounts are set forth
in monthly billing statements sent by the Bank to Collateral
Giver in accordance with the Euroclear Tariff, as in effect
from time to time. Amounts payable by Collateral Giver
will be debited from Collateral Giver’s Account or such
other Cash Account as Collateral Giver may specify by
written notice to the Bank from time to time or, if no such
Cash Account has been duly specified, any Cash Account of
Collateral Giver. Amounts payable by Collateral Taker will
be debited from Collateral Taker’s Account or such other cash
account as Collateral Taker may specify by written notice to
the Bank from time to time or, if no such cash account has
been duly specified, any cash account of Collateral Taker.
No amount may be debited from any account which is subject
to the Pledged Account Agreement, and a party with such
an account must specify in writing another account for the
purposes of debiting amounts under this Section 6.

Collateral Taker will send to Collateral Giver a copy of
any notice it gives to the Bank to convert an AutoSelect
Transaction to a Manual Transaction or to discontinue
AutoSelect for all Transactions in one or more Eligibility Sets
or all Eligibility Sets, but the failure of Collateral Taker to do
so will not affect the Bank’s obligations under the previous
two paragraphs. Collateral Giver will have no right to contest
Collateral Taker’s notice to the Bank. The Bank will send to
Collateral Giver a copy of Collateral Taker’s notice as soon as
reasonably practicable.
(d)	 AutoSelect Acknowledgements

(i)	 Each of Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker
acknowledges that instructions with respect to AutoSelect
Transactions (if any) are being generated and entered by
the Bank on behalf of Collateral Giver and Collateral
Taker in accordance with the AutoSelect Methodology
and such other procedures consistent therewith as agreed
to from time to time by Collateral Giver and the Bank
and that such instructions are generated and entered only
to the extent Securities are, in accordance with such
procedures, available for allocation and transfer.

Authority for Internet Reporting

Each of Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker authorises the
other to access, and the Bank to make available through the
Internet, the Internet Reports.

6.	 Bank Fees

DSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP50007

4

Exhibit P-5

7.	 Duties and Liabilities of the Bank
(a)	General

(i)	 The Bank has no obligations except as expressly set out
in this Agreement.
(ii)	 The Bank is not liable to Collateral Giver or Collateral
Taker for any Losses arising in connection with:
(A)	 any event or matter referred to in paragraphs (i), (ii)
or (iii) of Section 8(a) (Indemnitor’s Instructions,
Default or Breach) or paragraphs (i) or (ii) of
Section 8(b) (Bank’s Performance) or Section 9
(Effect of Certain Events and Disputes) of this
Agreement, or Section 12(c) of the Terms and
Conditions; or
(B)	 any act or omission of the Bank in connection with
this Agreement,
except in the case of its negligence or wilful misconduct.
(iii)	 The Bank is not liable to anyone for unforeseeable
Losses, Losses not flowing directly and naturally from
a breach of this Agreement or Losses representing loss
of profit, except in the case of its wilful misconduct and
then only to Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker.
(iv)	 In the event of any dispute, Collateral Giver or Collateral
Taker, as the case may be, bears the burden of proving
negligence or wilful misconduct by the Bank.
(v) The Bank is not liable to anyone for any Losses arising in
connection with this Agreement, the Master Agreement,
the Pledged Account Agreement (if applicable) or any
other related agreement except, but only to the extent
specified in paragraphs (ii) and (iii) above, to Collateral
Giver or Collateral Taker.
(vi)	Acceptance of securities into the Euroclear System
is governed by the Operating Procedures and not this
Agreement. Acceptance and setting up new securities for
use in the services described in this Agreement is not part
of the services which the Bank agrees to provide pursuant
to this Agreement.
(vi) All warranties, conditions and other terms implied by
statute or common law are, to the fullest extent permitted
by law, excluded from this Agreement.
(b)	 Collateral Giver’s and Collateral Taker’s Responsibilities

The Bank makes no representation regarding, need not
inquire into, does not guarantee and is not liable to anyone
for any Losses arising in connection with the following, all
of which are Collateral Giver’s and/or Collateral Taker’s sole
responsibility:
(i)	 the title, validity or genuineness of any Security;
(ii)	 the legality of the delivery or transfer of any Cash or
Security;

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(iii)	 the correctness of any financial or other information
derived by the Bank, in connection with its duties under
this Agreement, from any source nominated or approved
by Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker;
(iv)	 the due authorisation of any person to act on behalf of
Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker in connection with
Eligible Cash or Eligible Securities held in Collateral
Giver’s Account or Collateral Cash or Collateral
Securities held in any Collateral Taker’s Account;
(v)	 the capacity and authority of a Representative to act for
the benefit of any Client;
(vi)	 the characterisation of any Security as a Net Paying
Security or the eligibility of any Security as a Collateral
Security under the Master Agreement;
(vii)	the validity or enforceability of, or any statement
or representation made by Collateral Giver and/or
Collateral Taker in connection with, this Agreement, the
Master Agreement, the Pledged Account Agreement (if
applicable) or any other related agreement;
(viii)the performance of the obligations of Collateral
Giver or Collateral Taker under this Agreement, the
Master Agreement, the Pledged Account Agreement
(if applicable) or any other related agreement or the
performance of any Client (if applicable) under the
Master Agreement or any other related agreement;
(ix)	 an extension of credit in connection with any
Transaction;
(x)	 the settlement of instructions entered into the Euroclear
System; or
(xi)	 the value (or the sufficiency of the value) of any
Securities delivered or transferred.
(c)	 Bank’s Notice and Inquiry

Except as expressly set out in this Agreement, the Bank:
(i)	 will be deemed to have no notice of, and need not
inquire into, any transaction between Collateral Giver
and Collateral Taker (or one or more of their respective
Clients, if applicable) under the Master Agreement or
otherwise or the performance or breach of this Agreement,
the Master Agreement, the Pledged Account Agreement
(if applicable) or any other related agreement; and
(ii)	 need not give Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker notice
of any breach by Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker
of this Agreement or any breach by Collateral Giver
or Collateral Taker (or one or more of their respective
Clients, if applicable) of the Master Agreement, the
Pledged Account Agreement (if applicable) or any other
related agreement.

DSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP50008

5

Exhibit P-5

(d)	 Notices to Bank

(i)	 The Bank may rely on any notice or data from Collateral
Giver or Collateral Taker under this Agreement and is
not liable to anyone for any Losses arising in connection
with:
(A)	 unsigned notices, or the unauthorised signing or
giving of written or oral notices by any person, or
the unauthorised alteration of them or of any other
instrument;
(B)	 the incorrectness or incompleteness of information
(including, without limitation, in relation to the
amount of any credit exposure under the Master
Agreement) in any notice; or
(C)	 the incorrectness or incompleteness of data
transmitted by computer tape or terminal or other
computer facility,
	

unless, and to the extent that, the Bank actually knows
(x) that the notice or data was not sent by Collateral
Giver or Collateral Taker; (y) of the lack of authority; or
(z) that the information or data was incorrect.

(ii)	 The Bank is not liable to anyone for any Losses arising
in connection with:
(A)	 any notices sent otherwise than in accordance with
Section 18(a) (Notices);
(B)	 its acting upon oral notice reasonably believed by
it to be from a person acting on behalf of Collateral
Giver or Collateral Taker, as the case may be, or on
data received over any electronic system whereby
the receiver is able to verify by code or otherwise
with reasonable certainty the identity of the sender
of such communication, even if subsequent written
notices differ from such oral or data notices; or
(C)	 its acceptance of, and its acting, in its discretion,
upon, notices from Collateral Giver or Collateral
Taker received after the deadlines set out in the
Timetable.
(e)	 AutoSelect Allocation

The Bank makes no representation that any allocations of
securities or cash generated by AutoSelect in accordance
with this Agreement will represent the optimal allocation of
securities or cash among all AutoSelect Transactions or all
counterparties of Collateral Giver. The Bank is not liable to
anyone for any Losses arising in connection with securities
not being optimally allocated.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(f)	

Price Data

The Bank is not liable to anyone for any Losses arising in
connection with any error by, or any incorrect price received
from, any pricing or other information source used by the
Euroclear Operator in its ordinary course of business or
the appropriateness or relative change of any price and
need not determine volatility factors with respect to or the
appropriateness of any price.
(g)	 Force Majeure

If the Bank acts or fails to act (including, without limitation,
fails to receive or deliver, or cause to be received or delivered,
Securities or fails to receive or make, or cause to be received
or made, any payment) as a result of or in connection with
Force Majeure, such action or failure is not a breach of this
Agreement and the Bank is not liable to anyone for Losses
arising in connection with such action or failure.

8.	Indemnification
(a)	 Indemnitor’s Instructions, Default or Breach

Subject to Section 8(e), Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker
(in each case, the ‘Indemnitor’) will promptly upon demand
by the Bank release, defend, indemnify and hold harmless
each Indemnified Party for and against Losses or Claims
suffered by that Indemnified Party arising in connection with:
(i)	 the Bank’s execution of instructions based on that
Indemnitor’s notices;
(ii)	 the Bank’s failure or delay, in whole or in part, to take
any action to be taken under this Agreement or otherwise
to fulfil any of its obligations under this Agreement, to
the extent that such failure or delay arises in connection
with the negligence or wilful misconduct of that
Indemnitor or any Related Party of that Indemnitor; or
(iii)	 any breach by that Indemnitor or any Related Party of
that Indemnitor of any provision of this Agreement or
any law, decree, regulation or order of any government
or governmental body (including any court or tribunal),
except, subject to Section 8(c)(i), Losses or Claims arising out
of the negligence or wilful misconduct of the Bank.
(b)	 Bank’s Performance

Subject to Section 8(e), Collateral Giver and Collateral
Taker will, promptly upon demand by the Bank, jointly and
severally, release, defend, indemnify and hold harmless each
Indemnified Party for and against Losses and Claims, other
than Losses or Claims against which the Bank is indemnified
under Section 8(a), suffered by such Indemnified Party arising
in connection with:

DSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP50009

6

Exhibit P-5

(i)	 any act or omission of the Bank in connection with this
Agreement or the Terms and Conditions; or
(ii)	 the performance of obligations under Belgian or other
applicable law in connection with this Agreement or the
Terms and Conditions,
except, subject to Section 8(c)(ii), Losses or Claims arising
out of the negligence or wilful misconduct of the Bank.
(c)	 Breach and Related Party Claims

(i)	 The exception to Section 8(a) does not apply in respect of:
(A)	 Losses or Claims suffered by the Indemnified Party
arising as a result of any breach as referred to in
Section 8(a)(iii); or
(B)	 Losses caused or Claims made or brought by any
Related Party of the Indemnitor.
(ii)	 The exception to Section 8(b) does not, in relation to
Collateral Giver or (as the case may be) Collateral Taker,
apply in respect of Losses caused or Claims made or
brought by any Related Party, respectively, of Collateral
Giver or Collateral Taker.
(d)	 Burden of Proof

The party from whom the Bank is seeking an indemnity under
Section 8(a) or Section 8(b) bears the burden of proving:

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

9.	 Effect of Certain Events and Disputes
(a)	 Withdrawal of Authorisation, Notice of Default under the
Master Agreement or Insolvency

The Bank will, to the extent permitted by applicable law,
cease entering any instructions into the Euroclear System
pursuant to this Agreement as soon as reasonably practicable
after the receipt by the Bank of:
(i)	 any written notice of a withdrawal by Collateral Giver
or Collateral Taker of its authorisation(s) under Section
5(a) (Authority of the Bank to Enter Instructions into the
Euroclear System);
(ii)	 any written notice of default with respect to Collateral
Giver or Collateral Taker or one or more of their Clients,
if applicable, under the Master Agreement sent by
Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker to the Bank (unless
and until Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker, as the case
may be, withdraws such notice of default by notice to the
Bank); or
(iii)	 any written notice from Collateral Giver or Collateral
Taker that it has filed for bankruptcy or declared that it is
insolvent or bankrupt or that it has become the subject of
any involuntary proceeding in respect of its insolvency or
bankruptcy,

(i)	 the negligence or wilful misconduct of the Bank for the
purposes of the exception to Section 8(a) or Section 8(b),
respectively; or
(ii)	 the application, if any, of Section 8(e).

provided that, in each case, the Bank will enter instructions
in accordance with (x) subsequent matching notices from
Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker to the Bank or (y) a
final order (whether or not subject to appeal) of a court of
competent jurisdiction.

(e)	Limitations

(b)	 Continuing Disputes

The party from whom the Bank is seeking an indemnity under
Section 8(a) or Section 8(b) is not liable in respect of:
(i)	 Losses caused or Claims made or brought by:
(A)	 any third party (other than any Related Party of
the party from whom the Bank is seeking such an
indemnity); or
(B)	 the other party to this Agreement or any Related
Party of that other party; or
(ii)	 Losses caused by an event or circumstance constituting
Force Majeure and which is beyond the reasonable
control of the party from whom the Bank is seeking such
an indemnity.

In the event of any other (x) dispute between or conflicting
claims, demands, notices or instructions by Collateral Giver,
Collateral Taker, a Client and/or any other person or (y)
conflicting notices by Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker,
with respect to any cash credited to any Collateral Taker’s
Account or to Collateral Giver’s Account, any Securities,
Collateral Giver’s Account or any Collateral Taker’s Account
(other than withdrawals of authorisation, notices of default
or filings for or declarations of insolvency or bankruptcy
notified to the Bank pursuant to Section 9(a) the Bank may
decline to comply with any and all claims, demands, notices
or instructions or to take any action hereunder with respect
to the cash, the Securities, Collateral Giver’s Account or
Collateral Taker’s Account as long as that dispute or conflict
is continuing. The Bank will not be liable for any Losses
arising out of such failure to act or to comply with such
claims, demands, notices or instructions.

DSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP50010

7

Exhibit P-5

The dispute or conflict will be deemed to continue and the
Bank will be entitled to refuse to act or comply until either:
(i)	 the conflicting or adverse claims or demands have been
determined in a court of competent jurisdiction or settled
by agreement among the conflicting parties and/or such a
court; or
(ii)	 the Bank has received security or an indemnity
satisfactory to it sufficient to hold it harmless from and
against any and all Losses which it may incur by reason
of taking any action directly or indirectly in connection
with this Agreement.
The Bank may assume that no disputes or conflicting claims
or notices exist unless it has received a copy of a written
notice thereof sent by Collateral Giver to Collateral Taker or
by Collateral Taker to Collateral Giver.

10.	Termination
(a)	 Termination on Notice

Except as provided in Section 18(e) (Survival), this
Agreement may be terminated by any party hereto on
30 Business Days’ written notice to the other parties. In spite
of any such notice of termination, this Agreement will remain
applicable to any Transactions then outstanding.
(b)	 Immediate Termination

The Bank may terminate this Agreement immediately with
respect to all outstanding Transactions and all proposed
transactions in the event that:
(i)	 any representation made by Collateral Giver or Collateral
Taker in this Agreement will have been incorrect or
untrue in any material respect when made or repeated or
deemed to have been made or repeated;
(ii)	 Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker ceases to be a
Participant in the Euroclear System; or
(iii)	 the Master Agreement or the Pledged Account
Agreement (if applicable) is terminated.
(c)	 Termination on Revocation of Representative’s Authority

If a Representative’s authority to take action hereunder
for the benefit of a Client is revoked by such Client, such
Representative may, by giving written notice (which notice
shall be conclusive evidence of such revocation for the
purposes of this Agreement) to the Bank specifying the
relevant outstanding Transactions, terminate this Agreement
immediately with respect to such outstanding Transactions
between Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker, and all such
proposed transactions between Collateral Giver and Collateral
Taker, in each case, as have been, or are proposed to be,
entered into for the benefit of such Client.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

In addition, if the Bank receives written notice from a
Representative or its Client that such Representative’s
authority as aforesaid has been revoked by such Client, the
Bank may, in its discretion, by giving notice to Collateral
Giver and Collateral Taker either:
(i)	 terminate this Agreement immediately with respect to all
outstanding Transactions and all proposed transactions; or
(ii)	 terminate this Agreement immediately with respect to
such outstanding Transactions and all such proposed
transactions, in each case, as have been, or are proposed
to be, entered into for the benefit of such Client.
(d)	 Delivery after Termination

Upon the effectiveness of any termination of this Agreement
as aforesaid, or as soon thereafter as is reasonably practicable,
the Bank will, unless otherwise directed by Collateral Giver
and Collateral Taker and subject to Section 9 (Effect of
Certain Events and Disputes) of this Agreement and subject
to Section 14(d) of the Terms and Conditions, cause to be
delivered to Collateral Taker any amounts of Collateral Cash
and Collateral Securities then credited to any Collateral
Taker’s Account and to Collateral Giver any amounts of cash
and securities then credited to Collateral Giver’s Account.

11.	Confidentiality
The Bank represents to each of Collateral Giver and
Collateral Taker that information which reveals or relates to,
or which would permit the determination of the Euroclear
securities positions of, or Transactions by, Collateral
Giver and/or its Client and Collateral Taker and/or any of
its Clients, respectively (including any future or planned
securities positions or transactions), or the type and amount
of any Collateral Securities, will only be used by the Bank in
connection with the operation of the Euroclear System or the
provision of banking services to Collateral Taker or Collateral
Giver, as the case may be.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Bank may, where it is
bound by the law of any territory or country or pursuant
to any requirement of any regulatory body, disclose any
information or produce any document in its possession
or control. If the Bank discloses information concerning
Collateral Giver and/or its Client (if applicable) or Collateral
Taker and/or any of its Clients (if applicable) to any such
regulatory body, the Bank will inform Collateral Giver or
Collateral Taker, as appropriate, unless the Bank may not
do so or has been requested not to do so by such regulatory
authority.

DSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP50011

8

Exhibit P-5

12.	Amendments
(a)	 DSA Terms and Conditions

These DSA Terms and Conditions may only be amended or
modified by a written agreement executed by the parties and
the Annexes I and II may be amended or modified only by a
written agreement, except as set forth in paragraphs (b), (c)
and (d) below. Unconditional SWIFT Elections may only be
amended or modified by:
(i)	 establishing a new set of Unconditional SWIFT
Elections, in place of the then current Unconditional
SWIFT Elections, by repeating the procedure set out in
Section 2(d) and (e); or
(ii)	 complying with the procedures for unilateral amendment
set out in paragraph (b) below.
An amendment under this Section 12(a) is effective when
theBank notifies Borrower and Lender that it is effective.
(b)	 Unilateral Amendment

Collateral Taker may, upon notice to and with the consent
of the Bank, amend Annexes I and II to include in Eligible
Securities one or more types of security, identified by ISIN or
Common Code, without the agreement of Collateral Giver.
Collateral Giver may, upon notice to and with the consent of
the Bank, amend Annexes I and II to exclude from Eligible
Securities, for a stated period or until a subsequent notice of
Collateral Giver is given (with the consent of the Bank) to
include such Eligible Securities again, one or more types of
security, identified by ISIN or Common Code, without the
agreement of Collateral Taker.
The Bank may, upon notice to Collateral Giver and Collateral
Taker, amend Annexes I and II to exclude any security
or securities from Eligible Securities or any currency or
currencies from Eligible Cash without the agreement of
Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker.
An amendment under this Section 12(b) must be in writing,
which may include a facsimile or SWIFT message, and will
be effective when the Bank notifies Collateral Giver and
Collateral Taker that it is effective.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(d)	 DSA Operating Procedures

The Bank may amend the DSA Operating Procedures at
any time by notice to Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker.
Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker will be deemed
to have agreed to and accepted any such amendment (i)
effective immediately, if the amendment does not adversely
affect Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker or (ii) effective
30 Business Days after the Bank sends it, for any other
amendment.
(e)	 Pledged Account Agreement

Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement and
except for Sections 6 (Bank Fees), 7 (Duties and Liabilities
of the Bank) and 8 (Indemnification) of this Agreement,
no provision of this Agreement (including, without
limitation, Section 18(f)(ii) (Headings and References)
affects any right or obligation under the Pledged Account
Agreement (if applicable). Collateral Taker agrees that the
acknowledgements made in its capacity as Pledgee in Section
3(e) of the Pledged Account Agreement shall be deemed to
be made by Collateral Taker as if set out in full and as if the
reference to ‘Section 5 of the Pledged Account Terms and
Conditions’ in such Section 3(e) were a reference to ‘this
Agreement’.
(f)	

No Waivers

No waiver, or acceptance of performance other than as
provided in this Agreement, on the part of any party will be a
waiver, or acceptance of such performance, in the future. The
Bank’s acceptance, in its discretion, of any notice or notices
from Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker received after the
relevant deadline set out in the Timetable does not oblige it to
accept any such notice so received in the future.

13.	 Agreement of the Parties
If any provision of this Agreement is inconsistent or in
conflict with any provision of the Master Agreement
(including any provisions to the effect that such Master
Agreement will prevail over any other agreement), this
Agreement will prevail.

(c)	 Unilateral Amendment to Discontinue AutoSelect

Collateral Taker may at any time, by giving notice to the
Bank before the deadline indicated in the Timetable for
Allocation Mode Management (as defined in the DSA
Operating Procedures), amend this Agreement to discontinue
the use of AutoSelect, without the agreement of Collateral
Giver or the Bank, for one or more Eligibility Sets or for all
Eligibility Sets, effective as of the Business Day indicated in
the Timetable.

DSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP50012

9

Exhibit P-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

14.	 Applicable Law; Jurisdiction

17.	 Service of Process

This Agreement and any dispute or claim arising out of
or in connection with it or its subject matter or formation
(including non-contractual disputes or claims) will be
governed by and construed in accordance with English law.

Each of Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker consents to the
service of any and all process, notices or other documents
which may be served in any such suit, action or proceeding
either:

Each of Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker irrevocably
agrees for the exclusive benefit of the Bank that the Courts
of England are to have jurisdiction to settle any disputes or
claims which may arise out of or in connection with this
Agreement or its subject matter or formation (including noncontractual disputes or claims) and that, accordingly, any
suit, action or proceeding arising out of or in connection with
this Agreement or its subject matter or formation (including
non-contractual disputes or claims) may be brought in such
Courts. Nothing contained in this Section 14 will limit the
right of the Bank to take any such suit, action or proceeding
against each of Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker or both
in any other court of competent jurisdiction nor will the taking
of such suit, action or proceeding in one or more jurisdictions
preclude the taking of any such suit, action or proceeding in
any other jurisdiction by the Bank whether concurrently or not,
to the extent permitted by the law of such other jurisdiction.

(i)	 by mailing a copy thereof to its address referred to in
Section 18(a) (Notices) by registered or certified mail;

The Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker waive (and agree
not to raise) any objection, on the ground of forum non
conveniens or any other ground, to the taking of proceedings
by the Bank in any court in accordance with this Section 14.
The Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker also agree that a
judgment against one or both of them in the Bank’s favour in
proceedings brought in any jurisdiction in accordance with
this Section 14 shall be conclusive and binding upon them
and may be enforced in any other jurisdiction.

15.	 Waiver of Immunity
Each of Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker waives, to
the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, all immunity
(on the basis of sovereignty or otherwise) from jurisdiction,
attachment (both before and after judgment) and execution
to which it might otherwise be entitled in any suit, action or
proceeding in the Courts of England or of any other country
or jurisdiction relating in any way to this Agreement and
agrees that it will not raise, claim or cause to be pleaded any
such immunity at or in respect of any such suit, action or
proceeding.

16.	Domicile

(ii)	 by serving a copy thereof at its domicile in Belgium
or upon any agent for service appointed as provided in
Section 16 (Domicile) (whether or not the election of
domicile or the appointment of such agent for service
of process will for any reason prove to be ineffective
or such agent will fail to accept or acknowledge such
service) and mailing a copy thereof to its address referred
to in Section 18(a) (Notices) by registered or certified
mail; or
(iii)	 in any other manner permitted by applicable law.
Each of Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker waives all
claims of error by reason of any service in accordance with
this Section 17 and agrees that such service (x) will be
deemed in every respect effective service of process upon it
and (y) will be taken and held to be valid personal service
upon and personal delivery to it.

18.	Miscellaneous
(a)	Notices

Unless otherwise specified herein, notices required by this
Agreement must be in writing (which will include, without
limitation, facsimile, EUCLID, EasyWay or SWIFT).
Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker agree that any notices
given under this Agreement will be sent to the Bank to the
attention of ‘Collateral Management Administration’ at the
address set forth in Exhibit 1 or to the attention of such other
contact at such other address as the Bank may from time to
time designate to Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker in
writing. The Bank is not required to comply with and is not
deemed to have any notice or knowledge of any notice sent by
any Client. Any notice to Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker
authorised or required by this Agreement will be addressed
to the persons indicated at the addresses set forth in Exhibit 1
or to such other person or persons as the receiving party may
from time to time designate to the other parties in writing.

Each of Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker elects domicile
in Belgium at the Bank for the purpose of any suit, action
or proceeding in Belgium arising out of or relating to this
Agreement and will appoint promptly on request from
the Bank authorised agents in London for the purpose of
receiving service of process in any such suit, action or
proceeding in England.

DSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP50013

10

Exhibit P-5

Chapter 3 (Transaction Processing) of the DSA Operating
Procedures contains the Timetable, setting out the deadlines
by which the various notices must be received by the Bank
for processing. The Bank may, in its sole discretion, attempt
to process notices received or validated after the deadlines
set forth in the Timetable. Notices will be effective from the
time they are actually received by the intended recipient by
telephone, facsimile, EUCLID, EasyWay or SWIFT or any
other means designated by the Bank.
In any situation in which this Agreement requires written
notice, the Bank may but is not required to act on oral notice
reasonably believed by it to be notice of a person acting on
behalf of Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker or, for the
purposes of Section 10(c) (Termination on Revocation of
Representative’s Authority), a Client or a person purporting
to be a Client, as the case may be, or on data received over
any electronic system whereby the receiver is able to verify
by code or otherwise with reasonable certainty the identity
of the sender of such communication. Collateral Giver
and Collateral Taker shall confirm in writing any oral or
electronic data notice. Failure to confirm in writing or any
conflict between subsequent written notices and oral or
data notices will not affect the authority of any acts taken
or omitted by the Bank pursuant to oral or electronic data
notices. The Bank reserves the right to record telephone
conversations with Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker and to
refer to such recordings in the event of any dispute. Nothing
in this paragraph permits oral amendments to this Agreement.
(b)	 Binding Agreement; Assignment and Novation

The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon
and inure to the benefit of the Bank, Collateral Giver and
Collateral Taker and their respective successors and assigns
(including any trustee, conservators or other officers of the
court in any bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding), subject to
the next paragraph.
The rights and obligations of each party under this Agreement
may not be assigned or novated without the written consent
of the other parties and any assignment or novation without
such consent will be null and void.
(c)	Severability

Each provision and agreement in this Agreement will be
separate from any other provision or agreement in this
Agreement and will be enforceable, notwithstanding the
unenforceability of any other provision or agreement.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(d)	Representatives

Despite the fact that any Representative is acting for the
benefit of any Client in connection with this Agreement:
(i)	 that Representative will have and be entitled to assert
any claim, counterclaim or defence in connection with
this Agreement or the Bank’s performance of services
under this Agreement only to the extent that it has or is
entitled to assert that claim, counterclaim or defence in
its capacity as a principal party to this Agreement;
(ii)	 that Representative shall be liable for the performance
of all its obligations and for all its indemnities given
under this Agreement, including but not limited to the
indemnity contained in Section 8 (Indemnification), as a
principal party to this Agreement;
(iii)	 no Client is a party to this Agreement and no Client
will have any rights under or in connection with this
Agreement against the Bank; and
(iv)	 the Bank will have obligations under or in connection
with this Agreement only to Collateral Giver and
Collateral Taker and will not be liable to any Client
under or in connection with this Agreement in any
manner whatsoever (including, without limitation, in
contract or in tort).
(e)	Survival

All releases, limitations of liability and indemnifications
provided in this Agreement will survive the termination of
this Agreement.
(f)	

Headings and References

(i)	 The headings and captions in this Agreement are for
reference only and will not affect the construction or
interpretation of any of its provisions.
(ii)	 Notwithstanding the use of expressions ‘Collateral
Giver’, ‘Collateral Giver’s Account’, ‘Collateral Taker’,
‘Collateral Taker’s Account’ and ‘collateralised’, nothing
in this Agreement shall create, or shall be construed to
create, in favour of any party any mortgage, charge, lien,
pledge, encumbrance or other security interest over or in
any Collateral Cash or Collateral Securities.

DSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP50014

11

Exhibit P-5

19.	Glossary
References in this Agreement to the singular include the
plural, and vice versa.
The following words, as used in this Agreement, have the
following meanings:

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

‘Collateral Cash’ means, with respect to a Transaction:

•	
•	

‘Agreement’ has the meaning set forth in the first sentence of

this Agreement.

‘AutoSelect’ means an electronic processing module owned

by the Bank designed to facilitate the selection of securities
for Triparty Agreements.

‘AutoSelect Methodology’ means the method by which

the AutoSelect processing module selects securities to
be transferred between Collateral Giver’s Account and
counterparty accounts, as described in Chapter 6 (AutoSelect
Processing Methodology) of the DSA Operating Procedures.
‘AutoSelect Processing’ means an option in Annexes I
and II which determines whether or not Collateral Giver
and Collateral Taker may use AutoSelect processing of
Transactions in an Eligibility Set under this Agreement.
‘AutoSelect Transaction’ means a Transaction that is
processed by the Bank using AutoSelect.
‘Bank’ means Euroclear Bank, and its successors and

the Eligible Cash, if any, credited with respect to such
Transaction to the relevant Collateral Taker’s Account;
or
a sum of money equivalent to the proceeds from the
redemption of any Collateral Security or proceeds
received as consideration upon a takeover or similar
event with respect to any Collateral Security increased
or decreased by any cash credited or debited, as the case
may be, to the relevant Collateral Taker’s Account from
time to time with respect to such Transaction pursuant to
a substitution of Eligible Securities for Collateral Cash or
a Transaction-size decrease pursuant to this Agreement.

‘Collateral Giver’ has the meaning set forth in the first

sentence of this Agreement.

‘Collateral Giver’s Account’ means a Securities Clearance
Account in the Euroclear System in the name of Collateral
Giver and the Cash Account in the Euroclear System in the
name of Collateral Giver associated therewith, the number
of which is indicated in the Annexes, which will be used for
Securities and Cash, respectively, with respect to Transactions
and which in each case will be designated a ‘client account’
if Collateral Giver has entered into this Agreement for the
benefit of one Client.
‘Collateral Securities’ means, with respect to any Transaction:

•	

assigns, as derivatives credit support service agent under this
Agreement.
‘Business Day’ means a day when the operation of the
Euroclear System takes place.

the Eligible Securities credited with respect to such
Transaction to the relevant Collateral Taker’s Account
as of the relevant Initiation Date (as defined in the DSA
Operating Procedures), increased or decreased by any
Securities credited or debited, as the case may be, to
of from that Collateral Taker’s Account from time to
time with respect to such Transaction pursuant to this
Agreement; or
Equivalent Securities thereto.

‘Cash’ means Eligible Cash or Collateral Cash.

•	

‘Claims’ means any claim, demand, action, investigation or

‘Collateral Taker’ has the meaning set forth in the first
sentence of this Agreement.

administrative proceeding made or brought by an Indemnitor
or any Related Party of that Indemnitor in connection with
this Agreement.

‘Client’ means each person other than Collateral Giver or
Collateral Taker:
•	 who has entered into, or who will enter into, the Master
Agreement with Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker; or
•	 for whose benefit Collateral Giver or its Client
(if applicable) or Collateral Taker or its Client (if
applicable) has entered into, or will enter into, the Master
Agreement,
and for whose benefit Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker has
entered into the Pledged Account Agreement (if applicable)
and has entered into, or will enter into, this Agreement.

‘Collateral Taker’s Account’ means the Securities Clearance
Account (or, in the case of Multiple Collateral Taker Accounts,
one of such Securities Clearance Accounts) in the Euroclear
System in the name of Collateral Taker and the Cash Account
in the Euroclear System in the name of Collateral Taker
associated therewith, the number of which is indicated in
the Annexes I and II which will be used only for Securities
and Cash, respectively, with respect to Transactions under
this Agreement and which in each case shall be designated
a ‘client account’ if Collateral Taker has entered into this
Agreement for the benefit of one or more Clients.

DSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP50015

12

Exhibit P-5

‘DSA Operating Procedures’ means the Derivatives Service

Agreement Operating Procedures, as amended from time to
time, which, together with the DSA Terms and Conditions,
form one contractual agreement.

‘DSA Terms and Conditions’ means these Derivatives Service
Agreement Terms and Conditions, which, together with the
DSA Operating Procedures, form one contractual agreement.

‘Eligibility Set’ means the Eligible Securities and Eligible
Cash identified in each set of Annexes I and II or by way
of the Unconditional SWIFT Elections, as such Annexes or
Unconditional SWIFT Elections may be amended from time
to time, and the options, amounts and percentages selected
in the corresponding set of Annexes I and II or by way of
the Unconditional SWIFT Elections, as such Annexes or
Unconditional SWIFT Elections may be amended from time
to time.
‘Eligible Cash’ means on any date:
•	 any Settlement Currency which Collateral Giver and
Collateral Taker have designated as the securities
denomination currency of an Eligible Security in the
applicable Eligibility Set in Annexes I and II or by way
of the Unconditional SWIFT Elections, as such Annexes
or Unconditional SWIFT Elections may be amended from
time to time; and
•	 if any such currency has been replaced by the euro,
the euro; and
•	 with respect to a Transaction, the Transaction Currency
of that Transaction.
‘Eligible Securities’ means on any date any of the Eurocleareligible securities of a type which Collateral Giver and
Collateral Taker have agreed, with the consent of the Bank,
will be eligible as of such date to become Collateral securities
for a Transaction by their inclusion in the applicable set in
Annexes I and II or by way of the Unconditional SWIFT
Elections, as such Annexes or Unconditional SWIFT
Elections may be amended from time to time, and as may be
limited by certain options in the corresponding set of Annexes
I and II or by way of the Unconditional SWIFT Elections,
as such Annexes or Unconditional SWIFT Elections may be
amended from time to time.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

‘Equivalent Securities’ means, with respect to any

Transaction:
•	 securities of the same issuer, being of an identical type,
nominal value, description and amount to the Collateral
Securities with respect to such Transaction; or
•	 in relation to Collateral Securities which are partly paid
or have been converted, subdivided, consolidated, made
the subject of a takeover, capitalisation issue, rights
issue, redenomination or event similar to any of the
foregoing, the following:
-	 in the case of conversion, subdivision or
consolidation, securities equivalent to the securities
into which the Collateral Securities have been
converted, subdivided or consolidated;
-	 in the case of takeover, securities equivalent to the
consideration or alternative consideration received;
-	 in the case of a call on partly paid securities,
securities equivalent to the paid-up securities;
-	 in the case of a capitalisation issue, securities
equivalent to the Collateral Securities together with
the securities allotted by way of bonus thereon;
-	 in the case of a rights issue, securities equivalent to
the Collateral Securities together with the securities
allotted in respect thereof;
-	 in the event that income in the form of securities,
or a certificate which may at a future date be
exchanged for securities or an entitlement to acquire
securities is distributed, securities equivalent to
the Collateral Securities together with securities or
a certificate or an entitlement equivalent to those
allotted;
-	 in the case of a redenomination into euro (and a
related renominalisation, if applicable), securities of
the same issuer, being of an identical type, nominal
value, description and amount to the redenominated
(and renominalised, if applicable) Collateral
Securities; and
-	 in the case of any event similar to any of the
foregoing, securities equivalent to the Collateral
Securities together with or replaced by securities or
other property equivalent to that received in respect
of such Collateral Securities resulting from such
event.
‘Euroclear-eligible securities’ means, at any time, any of the

securities accepted at that time for deposit into the Euroclear
System in accordance with the Operating Procedures.

‘Euroclear Operator’ means Euroclear Bank, and its
successors and assigns, acting in the capacity of operator of
the Euroclear System.
‘Euroclear System’ means the clearance system for

internationally traded securities operated under contract by the
Euroclear Operator.

DSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP50016

13

Exhibit P-5

‘Euroclear Tariff’ means the Euroclear Tariff folder (which

includes a general fees brochure and specific tariff sheets)
distributed to all Participants, as may be amended from time
to time.

‘Force Majeure’ means any event or circumstance beyond the

reasonable control of the Bank, including, without limitation,
war, insurrection, riot, civil commotion, act of God, accident,
fire, water damage, explosion, mechanical breakdown,
computer or systems failure or other equipment failure,
failure or malfunctioning of any communications media
for whatever reason (whether or not such media are made
available to Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker by the Bank),
interruption (partial or total) of power supply or other utility
or service, strike or other labour stoppage (partial or total)
and any law, decree, regulation or order of any government or
governmental body (including any court or tribunal).
‘Indemnified Party’ means each of the Bank, its officers,

directors and employees.

‘Indemnitor’ means Collateral Giver, or Collateral Taker, as
the case may be.
‘Intended Transaction Amount’ means, with respect to a

Transaction, the amount of credit support indicated as such in
the matching initiation notice:
•	 increased by the amount of credit support proposed to be
transferred from Collateral Giver’s Account to Collateral
Taker’s Account in one or more matching notices of
Transaction-size increase; and
•	 decreased by the amount of credit support proposed to be
transferred from Collateral Taker’s Account to Collateral
Giver’s Account in one or more matching notices of
Transaction-size decrease.
‘Internet Report’ means the internet report made available at
the website of the Euroclear System by the Bank as described
in Chapter 5 (Reporting by the Bank) of the DSA Operating
Procedures to recipients subscribing for the service in a
separate subscription agreement.
‘Losses’ means, in relation to any person, any losses,
liabilities, obligations, fines, penalties, damages, taxes (other
than taxes on the overall income of such person), costs,
expenses (to the extent reasonable and other than ordinary
administrative expenses) or fees (including reasonable
counsel’s fees and accountant’s fees) of any kind or nature
whatsoever at any time.
‘Manual Transaction’ means a Transaction that is not an

AutoSelect Transaction.

‘Master Agreement’ has the meaning given in the preamble to

the DSA Terms and Conditions.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

‘Multiple Collateral Taker Accounts’ means an option in

Annexes I and II which determines whether or not Collateral
Taker may open more than one Collateral Taker’s Account.

‘Net Paying Security’ means any security with respect to
which any interest, dividend or other distribution payable
by the issuer to either Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker is
required by law to be paid subject to withholding or deduction
for or on account of taxes or duties of any nature imposed,
levied, collected, withheld or assessed by any authority
having power to tax.
‘Operating Procedures’ means The Operating Procedures of
the Euroclear System established in accordance with
Section 3 of the Terms and Conditions, as such Operating
Procedures may be amended from time to time.
‘Pledged Account Agreement’ means the Acceptance
Agreement to the Single Pledgor Pledged Account Terms and
Conditions.
‘Related Party’ in respect of an Indemnitor means any

agent (including employees of such agent), employee, client
(including Clients) or any other person for whose benefit
or on whose behalf that Indemnitor acts or who acts for the
benefit of or on behalf of that Indemnitor.

‘Representative’ means either or each of Collateral Giver and

Collateral Taker if it has entered into, or will enter into, this
Agreement for the benefit of one or more Clients.

‘Securities’ means Eligible Securities or Collateral Securities.
‘Settlement Currency’ at any time means any of the currencies

accepted at that time in the Euroclear System as a Settlement
Currency in accordance with the Operating Procedures.

‘Terms and Conditions’ means the Terms and Conditions
Governing Use of Euroclear, as amended from time to time.
‘Timetable’ means the table of deadlines set forth in Chapter 3
(Transaction Processing) of the DSA Operating Procedures,
as amended from time to time.
‘Transaction’ means any provision of credit support governed
by the Master Agreement, the Pledged Account Agreement (if
applicable) and this Agreement.
‘Transaction Currency’ means, with respect to a Transaction,

the currency in which the Intended Transaction Amount is
denominated.

‘Triparty Agreement’ means an agreement among two
Participants and the Bank under which the Bank serves as
service agent.

‘Unconditional SWIFT Elections’ has the meaning set forth
in section 2(e) of this Agreement.

DSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP50017

14

Exhibit P-5

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

20.	Effectiveness
(A) This Agreement will become binding upon Collateral
Giver, Collateral Taker and the Bank if:
(i)	 the Bank has executed this Agreement, previously
signed by Collateral Giver and Collateral Taker; and
(ii)	 the Bank has received from Collateral Taker the
duly authorised and executed documentation relating
to the opening of Collateral Taker’s Account (or, in
the case of Multiple Collateral Taker Accounts, the
opening of all such accounts); and
(iii)	 the Bank has notified Collateral Giver and Collateral
Taker that the Agreement is effective.
(B) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (A) above,
this Agreement will also become binding upon Collateral
Giver, Collateral Taker and the Bank if:
(i)	 the Collateral Giver and the Bank have executed
the Form of Agreement RG 810 specifying (a) the
Derivatives Service Agreement under ‘Specific
services’ or (b) all collateral management service
agreements under ‘All services’ or such other form
and in such manner as may be specified by the
Bank; and
(ii)	 the Collateral Taker and the Bank have executed
the Form of Agreement RG 810 specifying (a) the
Derivatives Service Agreement under ‘Specific
services’ or (b) all collateral management service
agreements under ‘All services’ or such other form
and in such manner as may be specified by the
Bank; and
(iii)	 either Collateral Giver or Collateral Taker have
duly executed Annexes I and II and the provisions
of Sections 2(d), (e) and (f) of this Agreement are
complied with in relation to such Annexes; and
(iv)	 the Bank has received from Collateral Taker the
duly authorised and executed documentation relating
to the opening of the Collateral Taker Account (or,
in the case of Multiple Collateral Taker Accounts,
the opening of all such accounts); and
(v)	 the Bank has notified Collateral Giver and Collateral
Taker that the Agreement is effective.

21.	Counterparts
This Agreement may be executed in any number of
counterparts, each of which will be deemed to be an original,
and all of which together will be one agreement.

DSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP50018

15

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

© 2015 Euroclear Bank SA/NV, 1 Boulevard du Roi Albert II, 1210 Brussels, Belgium – Tel: +32 (0)2 326 1211 –
RPM Brussels number 0429 875 591 – Euroclear is the marketing name for the Euroclear System, Euroclear plc,
Euroclear SA/NV and their affiliates.
Euroclear is a carbon neutral company – PAS2060 certified in 2015

LG030

Exhibit P-5

www.euroclear.com

EXP50019

Exhibit P-7

August 2015

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Repurchase Service Agreement
Terms and Conditions

Post-trade made easy

EXP70001

Exhibit P-7

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Repurchase Service Agreement
Terms and Conditions

(to be read in conjunction with the RSA Operating Procedures)

Table of Contents
1.	 Appointment and Acceptance of the Bank .................................................................. 1
2.	Selections ............................................................................................................ 1

(a)	 Eligible Securities and Eligible Cash .......................................................................
(b)	 Eligibility Set Profiles ........................................................................................
(c)	Annexes..........................................................................................................
(d)	 Conditional SWIFT Elections.. ...............................................................................
(e)	 Unconditional SWIFT Elections.. ............................................................................
(f)	 Parties’ obligations in relation to SWIFT Elections. . .....................................................

1
1
1
2
2
2

3.	 Euroclear System .................................................................................................. 2
4.	Representations .................................................................................................... 2

(a)	 Representations of Seller and Purchaser ................................................................... 2
(b)	 Representations of the Bank . . ................................................................................ 3

5.	Transactions ........................................................................................................ 3

(a)	 Authority of the Bank to Enter Instructions into the Euroclear System . . .............................
(b)	 Authority of the Bank to Use AutoSelect ..................................................................
(c)	 Authority of Seller to Use AutoSelect and of Purchaser to Discontinue AutoSelect ...............
(d)	 AutoSelect Acknowledgments ...............................................................................
(e)	 Purchased Securities ...........................................................................................
(f)	 Access of Seller to Purchaser’s Reports . . ..................................................................
(g)	 Authority for Internet Reporting . . ...........................................................................

3
3
3
4
4
4
4

6.	 Bank Fees . . .......................................................................................................... 4
7.	 Duties and Liabilities of the Bank .............................................................................. 4

(a)	General . . .........................................................................................................
(b)	 Seller’s and Purchaser’s Responsibilities ..................................................................
(c)	 Bank’s Notice and Inquiry . . ..................................................................................
(d)	 Notices to Bank ................................................................................................
(e)	 AutoSelect Allocation .........................................................................................
(f)	 Price Data .......................................................................................................
(g)	 Force Majeure ..................................................................................................

4
5
5
5
5
6
6

8.	Indemnification ..................................................................................................... 6

(a)	 Indemnitor’s Instructions, Default or Breach . . ............................................................
(b)	 Bank’s Performance ...........................................................................................
(c)	 Breach and Related Party Claims .. ..........................................................................
(d)	 Burden of Proof ................................................................................................
(e)	Limitations ......................................................................................................

6
6
6
6
6

RSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP70002

Exhibit P-7

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

9.	 Effect of Certain Events and Disputes ........................................................................ 7

(a)	 Withdrawal of Authorisation, Notice of Default
under the Master Repurchase Agreement or Insolvency ................................................ 7
(b)	 Continuing Disputes ........................................................................................... 7

10.	Termination . . ........................................................................................................ 7

(a)	 Termination on Notice ........................................................................................
(b)	 Immediate Termination .......................................................................................
(c)	 Termination on Revocation of Representative’s Authority .............................................
(d)	 Delivery after Termination ...................................................................................

7
7
8
8

11.	Confidentiality . . ..................................................................................................... 8
12.	Amendments ........................................................................................................ 8

(a)	 RSA Terms and Conditions ..................................................................................
(b)	 Unilateral Amendment ........................................................................................
(c)	 Unilateral Amendment to Discontinue AutoSelect .......................................................
(d)	 RSA Operating Procedures ...................................................................................
(e)	 No Waivers .. ....................................................................................................

8
9
9
9
9

13.	 Agreement of the Parties .. ....................................................................................... 9
14.	 Applicable Law; Jurisdiction .. ................................................................................... 9
15.	 Waiver of Immunity .............................................................................................. 10
16.	Domicile ............................................................................................................ 10
17.	 Service of Process ............................................................................................... 10
18.	Miscellaneous . . ................................................................................................... 10

(a)	Notices .........................................................................................................
(b)	 Binding Agreement; Assignment and Novation ........................................................
(c)	Severability .. ..................................................................................................
(d)	Representatives ...............................................................................................
(e)	Survival ........................................................................................................
(f)	 Headings and References ...................................................................................

10
11
11
11
11
11

19.	Glossary ............................................................................................................ 11
20.	Effectiveness ...................................................................................................... 14
21.	Counterparts ...................................................................................................... 14

Exhibit 1 – Addresses
Annexes I and II (included in folder)

RSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP70003

Exhibit P-7

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Repurchase Service Agreement
The triparty repurchase service agreement (the ‘Agreement’) comprises two parts, the RSA Terms and Conditions and the RSA
Operating Procedures.
All references to ‘the Agreement’ or ‘this Agreement’ are to the RSA Terms and Conditions and the RSA Operating Procedures,
both as amended from time to time, which are to be read and construed as, and which together form, one contractual agreement.

RSA Terms and Conditions

2.	Selections

Seller or its Client (if applicable) and Purchaser or one or
more of its Clients (if applicable) have entered into a Master
Repurchase Agreement which permits Seller or its Client (if
applicable) and Purchaser or one or more of its Clients (if
applicable) to enter into repurchase transactions from time
to time. If Seller and/or Purchaser is a Representative, it has
agreed with each Client to enter into this Agreement for its
benefit.

(a)	 Eligible Securities and Eligible Cash

Seller and Purchaser have requested the Bank to perform
certain service functions to support those repurchase
transactions. Therefore, in consideration of the mutual
promises included in this Agreement and intending to be
legally bound hereby, the parties agree to the following terms.
Capitalised words used in these RSA Terms and Conditions
have the meanings assigned to them in Section 19 (Glossary).
Capitalised words used only in the RSA Operating Procedures
have the meanings assigned to them in Chapter 9 (Glossary)
of the RSA Operating Procedures. If any capitalised word
is defined in both these RSA Terms and Conditions and the
RSA Operating Procedures, and the definitions assigned
are inconsistent, the definition in these RSA Terms and
Conditions will prevail.

Seller and Purchaser, with the consent of the Bank, by
executing Annexes I and II, have selected in Annexes I and II
Eligible Securities and Eligible Cash, in one or more sets, to
be used with respect to Transactions under this Agreement.
(b)	 Eligibility Set Profiles

Seller and Purchaser, with the consent of the Bank, by
checking the relevant boxes or filling in the relevant lines
in Annexes I and II and executing Annexes I and II, have
selected certain options, amounts and percentages applicable
to each set of Eligible Securities and Eligible Cash. If no
selection is made with respect to a given option, amount or
percentage, the default selection, as indicated in Annexes I
and II, will apply.
(c)	Annexes

Seller, Purchaser and the Bank agree to the selections made in
Annexes I and II (as the same may be amended from time to
time in accordance with Section 12 (Amendments)). Annexes
I and II and any other numbered Annexes to this Agreement
form an integral part of this Agreement.

If capitalised terms are used but not defined, they have the
meaning assigned to them in the Terms and Conditions and
the Operating Procedures. The use of the term ‘type’ with
respect to securities means securities with the same security
code and description.

1.	 Appointment and Acceptance of the Bank
Each of Seller and Purchaser appoints the Bank as repurchase
service agent to carry out the duties described in this
Agreement and to take any actions incidental to those duties.
The Bank accepts such appointment and consents to act as
repurchase service agent to carry out only those duties.

RSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP70004

1

Exhibit P-7

(d)	 Conditional SWIFT Elections

If only Seller or Purchaser executes Annexes I and II, the
provisions of this paragraph (d) and Section 2(e) and (f) shall
apply instead of Section 2(a) to (c).
Seller or Purchaser, with the consent of the Bank, having
completed and executed Annexes I and II, sends such
Annexes to the Bank, indicating the name of the Eligibility
Set and set number (the ‘Completed Annexes’). The Bank
will upon receipt of the Completed Annexes, provide this
documentation to the counterparty Seller or Purchaser, as
indicated by Seller or Purchaser.
If Seller and Purchaser want to initiate Transactions on the
basis of the Completed Annexes, Seller and Purchaser shall
each send a SWIFT message to the Bank in a form specified
by the Bank which refers to the (i) name of the Eligibility
Set, (ii) set number, and (iii) account numbers of Seller and
Purchaser.
The elections made in the Completed Annexes and confirmed
by each of the Seller and Purchaser in a SWIFT message are
together the ‘Conditional SWIFT Elections’.
(e)	 Unconditional SWIFT Elections

Conditional SWIFT Elections will only become binding on
the parties (i) if the Bank notifies Seller and Purchaser by
SWIFT message that it consents to them and (ii) from the
time specified by the Bank in any such notice.
Conditional SWIFT Elections that have become effective
under this Section 2(e) or Section 12(a), together with
the related consenting SWIFT message sent by the
Bank, constitute the ‘Unconditional SWIFT Elections’.
Unconditional SWIFT Elections, as amended or modified
from time to time, form an integral part of this Agreement.
Seller, Purchaser and the Bank agree that the Unconditional
SWIFT Elections may be amended or modified from time to
time in accordance with Section 12 (Amendments).
(f)	

Parties’ obligations in relation to SWIFT Elections

(i)	 The Bank agrees to maintain a record of all Unconditional
SWIFT Elections which have, from time to time, come
into effect under this Agreement and any unilateral
amendments or modifications to such Unconditional
SWIFT Elections made under Section 12(b).
(ii)	The parties agree not to object to the admission as
evidence in any legal proceedings of any Unconditional
SWIFT Elections and any unilateral amendments or
modifications to such Unconditional SWIFT Elections
made under Section 12(b).

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

3.	 Euroclear System
Each of Seller and Purchaser acknowledges that securities and
cash credited to Seller’s Account or any Purchaser’s Account
are held in the Euroclear System pursuant to the Terms and
Conditions and the Operating Procedures.

4.	Representations
(a)	 Representations of Seller and Purchaser

Seller and Purchaser each represents to the Bank and to each
other, as of the date of this Agreement and as of each date on
which a Transaction is outstanding, that:
(i)	 it is duly organised and existing under the laws of the
jurisdiction of its organisation with full power and
authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to
perform all the duties and obligations to be performed by
it under this Agreement;
(ii)	the execution, delivery and performance by it of this
Agreement have been duly authorised, in accordance
with all requisite corporate action, and this Agreement is
a legal, valid and binding obligation of it enforceable in
accordance with its terms, except as such terms may be
limited by bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws, or by
equitable principles relating to or limiting creditors’ rights
generally;
(iii)	the execution, delivery and performance by it of this
Agreement have been and will be duly authorised by all
necessary governmental and other approvals, including
exchange control approvals;
(iv)	the execution, delivery, and performance by it of this
Agreement and the transactions contemplated under this
Agreement do not and will not violate or constitute a
default under any agreement by which it is bound, or its
constitutional documents, or any statute, regulation, rule,
order or judgment applicable to it (including any statute,
regulation, rule, order or judgment relating to taxes);
(v)	 it has (and if it is a Representative, it has been granted
by each Client for whose benefit it has entered into the
Master Repurchase Agreement and, if any Client is a
party to the Master Repurchase Agreement as of such
date, such Client has) the power and authority to enter
into the Master Repurchase Agreement and repurchase
transactions pursuant thereto;

RSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP70005

2

Exhibit P-7

(vi)	it has the power and authority to deliver and transfer the
securities and cash delivered or transferred and to take
any other action hereunder and, if it is a Representative,
each Client has authorised it to execute and deliver this
Agreement and to take all such actions hereunder for such
Client’s benefit; and
(vii) in the case of Seller, if it is a Representative and has
selected the AutoSelect Processing option in one or more
sets of Annexes I and II or by way of the Unconditional
SWIFT Elections, either:
(A)	 (x) it is not acting for the benefit of more than one
Client under this Agreement and (y) it is not acting
through the Seller’s Account for the benefit of any
other client under another Triparty Agreement; or
(B)	 it has received from each such Client or client a
specific authorisation to engage in transactions under
Triparty Agreements for the benefit of other clients
out of the same Seller’s Account.
(b)	 Representations of the Bank

The Bank represents to each of Seller and Purchaser, as of
the date of this Agreement and as of each date on which a
Transaction is outstanding, that:
(i)	 it is duly organised and existing under the laws of
Belgium with full power and authority to execute and
deliver this Agreement and to perform all the duties and
obligations to be performed by it under this Agreement;
(ii)	the execution, delivery and performance by it of this
Agreement have been duly authorised, in accordance
with all required corporate action, and this Agreement
is a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Bank
enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as such
terms may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency or similar
laws, or by equitable principles relating to or limiting
creditors’ rights generally; and
(iii)	the execution, delivery, and performance of this
Agreement will not violate or constitute a default under
any agreement by which it is bound, or its constitutional
documents, or any Belgian statute, regulation, rule, order
or judgment applicable to it.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

5.	Transactions
(a)	 Authority of the Bank to Enter Instructions into the
Euroclear System

Each of Seller and Purchaser authorises the Bank to enter or
cancel instructions on its behalf into the Euroclear System and
to take all other actions in connection with such instructions
in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Without
limiting the foregoing, Purchaser authorises the Bank to
accept, subject to the satisfaction of any relevant conditions,
the written notices of Seller identifying Securities and/or Cash
to be transferred pursuant to the RSA Operating Procedures
until receipt by the Bank of written notice of withdrawal of
any such authorisation.
(b)	 Authority of the Bank to Use AutoSelect

If Seller and Purchaser have selected the AutoSelect
Processing option in one or more sets of Annexes I and II or
by way of the Unconditional SWIFT Elections, and Purchaser
has not discontinued AutoSelect pursuant to Section 12(c)
(Unilateral Amendment to Discontinue AutoSelect), each of
Seller and Purchaser authorises the Bank to select Securities
on its behalf and deliver them to the other in accordance
with the AutoSelect Methodology, as described in Chapter 6
(AutoSelect Processing Methodology) of the RSA Operating
Procedures, with respect to AutoSelect Transactions assigned
to the corresponding Eligibility Set(s).
(c)	 Authority of Seller to Use AutoSelect and of Purchaser to
Discontinue AutoSelect

If Seller and Purchaser have selected the AutoSelect
Processing option in one or more sets of Annexes I and II or
by way of the Unconditional SWIFT Elections, and Purchaser
has not discontinued AutoSelect pursuant to Section 12(c)
(Unilateral Amendment to Discontinue AutoSelect), Purchaser
authorises the Bank to accept the written notice of Seller
identifying or converting an AutoSelect Transaction or a
Manual Transaction assigned to the corresponding Eligibility
Set pursuant to the procedures set forth in the RSA Operating
Procedures; provided, however, that:
(i)	 if Purchaser gives the Bank a notice to convert an
AutoSelect Transaction to a Manual Transaction prior to
the relevant deadline indicated in the Timetable, the Bank
will process the Transaction as a Manual Transaction
beginning on the Business Day indicated in the Timetable;
and
(ii)	if Purchaser has amended this Agreement to discontinue
the use of AutoSelect for one or more Eligibility Sets
or for all Eligibility Sets by providing a notice pursuant
to Section 12(c) (Unilateral Amendment to Discontinue
AutoSelect), the Bank will process all Transactions in
those Eligibility Sets as Manual Transactions beginning
at the time that amendment is effective.

RSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP70006

3

Exhibit P-7

Until the time, if any, that the Bank receives a notice from
Purchaser stating that it is willing to resume AutoSelect
processing of the Transaction (or of all the Transactions), the
Bank will not process the Transaction(s) as an AutoSelect
Transaction even if Seller gives the Bank a notice to convert
the Transaction to an AutoSelect Transaction.
Purchaser will send to Seller a copy of any notice it gives to
the Bank to convert an AutoSelect Transaction to a Manual
Transaction or to discontinue AutoSelect for all Transactions
in one or more Eligibility Sets or all Eligibility Sets, but
the failure of Purchaser to do so will not affect the Bank’s
obligations under the previous two paragraphs. Seller will
have no right to contest Purchaser’s notice to the Bank. The
Bank will send to Seller a copy of Purchaser’s notice as soon
as reasonably practicable.
(d)	 AutoSelect Acknowledgements

(i)	 Each of Seller and Purchaser acknowledges that
instructions with respect to AutoSelect Transactions (if
any) are being generated and entered by the Bank on
behalf of Seller and Purchaser in accordance with the
AutoSelect Methodology and such other procedures
consistent therewith as agreed to from time to time
by Seller and the Bank and that such instructions are
generated and entered only to the extent Securities are, in
accordance with such procedures, available for allocation
and transfer.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

6.	 Bank Fees
Unless otherwise agreed, Seller agrees to pay to the Bank all
fees relating to Purchaser’s Account(s) and all amounts (other
than keying, query and communications fees, which will be
payable by the user thereof) relating to this Agreement, in
each case as such amounts are set forth in monthly billing
statements sent by the Bank to Seller in accordance with the
Euroclear Tariff, as in effect from time to time. Amounts
payable by Seller will be debited from Seller’s Account or such
other Cash Account as Seller may specify by written notice to
the Bank from time to time or, if no such Cash Account has
been duly specified, any Cash Account of Seller. Amounts
payable by Purchaser will be debited from Purchaser’s Account
or such other cash account as Purchaser may specify by
written notice to the Bank from time to time or, if no such cash
account has been duly specified, any cash account of Purchaser.
7.	 Duties and Liabilities of the Bank
(a)	General

(i) 	The Bank has no obligations except as expressly set out
in this Agreement.
(ii)	The Bank is not liable to Seller or Purchaser for any
Losses arising in connection with:
(A)	any event or matter referred to in paragraphs (i), (ii)
or (iii) of Section 8(a) (Indemnitor’s Instructions,
Default or Breach) or paragraphs (i) or (ii) of
Section 8(b) (Bank’s Performance) or Section 9
(Effect of Certain Events and Disputes) of this
Agreement, or Section 12(c) of the Terms and
Conditions; or
(B)	any act or omission of the Bank in connection with
this Agreement,

(ii)	Each of Seller and Purchaser acknowledges that each
of them may enter into other Triparty Agreements with
the Bank under which AutoSelect processing is used for
transactions.
(e)	 Purchased Securities

Nothing contained in this Agreement will restrict the ability
of Purchaser to transfer Purchased Securities or cash from
Purchaser’s Account(s).
(f)	

Access of Seller to Purchaser’s Reports

Purchaser agrees to provide Seller access to information
on future income payments and redemptions relating to
Purchased Securities that the Euroclear Operator provides
to Purchaser in accordance with the Operating Procedures
through Euroclear Advance Notice of Income and
Redemption (ANIR) reports, or any similar successor report.
Purchaser also agrees to provide Seller access to provisional
and definitive details about upcoming option deadlines and
corporate events affecting securities held in Purchaser’s
Account(s) through Euroclear DACE reports that the
Euroclear Operator provides to Purchaser in accordance with
the Operating Procedures, or any similar successor report.
(g)	 Authority for Internet Reporting

Each of Seller and Purchaser authorises the other to access,
and the Bank to make available through the Internet, the
Internet Reports.

	

except in the case of its negligence or wilful misconduct.

(iii)	The Bank is not liable to anyone for unforeseeable
Losses, Losses not flowing directly and naturally from a
breach of this Agreement or Losses representing loss of
profit, except in the case of its wilful misconduct and then
only to Seller or Purchaser.
(iv)	In the event of any dispute, Seller or Purchaser, as the
case may be, bears the burden of proving negligence or
wilful misconduct by the Bank.
(v) The Bank is not liable to anyone for any Losses arising in
connection with this Agreement, the Master Repurchase
Agreement or any other related agreement except, but
only to the extent specified in paragraphs (ii) and (iii)
above, to Seller or Purchaser.
(vi)	Acceptance of securities into the Euroclear System
is governed by the Operating Procedures and not this
Agreement. Acceptance and setting up new securities for
use in the services described in this Agreement is not part
of the services which the Bank agrees to provide pursuant
to this Agreement.
RSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP70007

4

Exhibit P-7

(vii) All warranties, conditions and other terms implied by
statute or common law are, to the fullest extent permitted
by law, excluded from this Agreement.
(b)	 Seller’s and Purchaser’s Responsibilities

The Bank makes no representation regarding, need not inquire
into, does not guarantee and is not liable to anyone for any
Losses arising in connection with the following, all of which
are Seller’s and/or Purchaser’s sole responsibility:
(i)	 the title, validity or genuineness of any Security;
(ii)	 the legality of the sale, purchase, delivery or transfer of
any Cash or Security;
(iii)	the due authorisation of any person to act on behalf of
Seller or Purchaser in connection with Eligible Cash or
Eligible Securities held in Seller’s Account or Cash Margin
or Purchased Securities held in any Purchaser’s Account;
(iv)	the capacity and authority of a Representative to act for
the benefit of any Client;
(v)	 the characterisation of any Security as a Net Paying
Security or the eligibility of any Security as a Purchased
Security under the Master Repurchase Agreement;
(vi)	the validity or enforceability of, or any statement or
representation made by Seller and/or Purchaser in
connection with, this Agreement, the Master Repurchase
Agreement or any other related agreement;
(vii)	the performance of the obligations of Seller or Purchaser
under this Agreement, the Master Repurchase Agreement
or any other related agreement or the performance of
any Client (if applicable) under the Master Repurchase
Agreement or any other related agreement;
(viii)	an extension of credit in connection with any Transaction;
(ix)	the settlement of instructions entered into the Euroclear
System; or
(x)	 the price (or the sufficiency of the price) at which any
Securities are purchased or sold.
(c)	 Bank’s Notice and Inquiry

Except as expressly set out in this Agreement, the Bank:
(i)	 will be deemed to have no notice of, and need not inquire
into, any transaction between Seller and Purchaser (or one
or more of their respective Clients, if applicable) under
the Master Repurchase Agreement or otherwise or the
performance or breach of this Agreement, the Master
Repurchase Agreement or any other related agreement; and

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(ii)	need not give Seller or Purchaser notice of any breach
by Seller or Purchaser of this Agreement or any breach
by Seller or Purchaser (or one or more of their respective
Clients, if applicable) of the Master Repurchase
Agreement or any other related agreement.
(d)	 Notices to Bank

(i)	 The Bank may rely on any notice or data from Seller
or Purchaser under this Agreement and is not liable to
anyone for any Losses arising in connection with:
(A)	unsigned notices, or the unauthorised signing or
giving of written or oral notices by any person, or
the unauthorised alteration of them or of any other
instrument;
(B)	the incorrectness or incompleteness of information in
any notice; or
(C)	the incorrectness or incompleteness of data
transmitted by computer tape or terminal or other
computer facility, unless the Bank actually knows
(x) that the notice or data was not sent by Seller or
Purchaser; (y) of the lack of authority; or (z) that the
information or data was incorrect.
(ii)	The Bank is not liable to anyone for any Losses arising in
connection with:
(A)	any notices sent otherwise than in accordance with
Section 18(a) (Notices);
(B)	its acting upon oral notice reasonably believed by
it to be from a person acting on behalf of Seller
or Purchaser, as the case may be, or on data
received over any electronic system whereby the
receiver is able to verify by code or otherwise with
reasonable certainty the identity of the sender of such
communication, even if subsequent written notices
differ from such oral or data notices; or
(C)	its acceptance of, and its acting, in its discretion,
upon, notices from Seller or Purchaser received after
the deadlines set out in the Timetable.
(e)	 AutoSelect Allocation

The Bank makes no representation that any allocations of
securities or cash generated by AutoSelect in accordance
with this Agreement will represent the optimal allocation of
securities or cash among all AutoSelect Transactions or all
counterparties of Seller. The Bank is not liable to anyone for
any Losses arising in connection with securities not being
optimally allocated.

RSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP70008

5

Exhibit P-7

(f)	

Price Data

The Bank is not liable to anyone for any Losses arising in
connection with any error by, or any incorrect price received
from, any pricing or other information source used by the
Euroclear Operator in its ordinary course of business or
the appropriateness or relative change of any price and
need not determine volatility factors with respect to or the
appropriateness of any price.
(g)	 Force Majeure

If the Bank acts or fails to act (including, without limitation,
fails to receive or deliver, or cause to be received or delivered,
Securities or fails to receive or make, or cause to be received
or made, any payment) as a result of or in connection with
Force Majeure, such action or failure is not a breach of this
Agreement and the Bank is not liable to anyone for Losses
arising in connection with such action or failure.

8.	Indemnification
(a)	 Indemnitor’s Instructions, Default or Breach

Subject to Section 8(e), Seller or Purchaser (in each case,
the ‘Indemnitor’) will promptly upon demand by the
Bank release, defend, indemnify and hold harmless each
Indemnified Party for and against Losses or Claims suffered
by that Indemnified Party arising in connection with:
(i)	 the Bank’s execution of instructions based on that
Indemnitor’s notices;
(ii)	the Bank’s failure or delay, in whole or in part, to take
any action to be taken under this Agreement or otherwise
to fulfil any of its obligations under this Agreement, to the
extent that such failure or delay arises in connection with
the negligence or wilful misconduct of that Indemnitor or
any Related Party of that Indemnitor; or
(iii)	any breach by that Indemnitor or any Related Party of
that Indemnitor of any provision of this Agreement or
any law, decree, regulation or order of any government or
governmental body (including any court or tribunal),
except, subject to Section 8(c)(i), Losses or Claims arising out
of the negligence or wilful misconduct of the Bank.
(b)	 Bank’s Performance

Subject to Section 8(e), Seller and Purchaser will, promptly
upon demand by the Bank, jointly and severally, release,
defend, indemnify and hold harmless each Indemnified Party
for and against Losses and Claims, other than Losses or
Claims against which the Bank is indemnified under
Section 8(a), suffered by such Indemnified Party arising in
connection with:

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(i)	 any act or omission of the Bank in connection with this
Agreement or the Terms and Conditions; or
(ii)	the performance of obligations under Belgian or other
applicable law in connection with this Agreement or the
Terms and Conditions,
except, subject to Section 8(c)(ii), Losses or Claims arising
out of the negligence or wilful misconduct of the Bank.
(c)	 Breach and Related Party Claims

(i)	 The exception to Section 8(a) does not apply in respect of:
(A)	Losses or Claims suffered by the Indemnified Party
arising as a result of any breach as referred to in
Section 8(a)(iii); or
(B)	Losses caused or Claims made or brought by any
Related Party of the Indemnitor.
(ii)	The exception to Section 8(b) does not, in relation to
Seller or (as the case may be) Purchaser, apply in respect
of Losses caused or Claims made or brought by any
Related Party, respectively, of Seller or Purchaser.
(d)	 Burden of Proof

The party from whom the Bank is seeking an indemnity under
Section 8(a) or Section 8(b) bears the burden of proving:
(i)	 the negligence or wilful misconduct of the Bank for the
purposes of the exception to Section 8(a) or Section 8(b),
respectively; or
(ii)	the application, if any, of Section 8(e).
(e)	Limitations

The party from whom the Bank is seeking an indemnity under
Section 8(a) or Section 8(b) is not liable in respect of:
(i)	 Losses caused or Claims made or brought by:
(A)	any third party (other than any Related Party of
the party from whom the Bank is seeking such an
indemnity); or
(B)	the other party to this Agreement or any Related Party
of that other party; or
(ii)	Losses caused by an event or circumstance constituting
Force Majeure and which is beyond the reasonable
control of the party from whom the Bank is seeking such
an indemnity.

RSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP70009

6

Exhibit P-7

9.	 Effect of Certain Events and Disputes
(a)	 Withdrawal of Authorisation, Notice of Default under the
Master Repurchase Agreement or Insolvency

The Bank will, to the extent permitted by applicable law,
cease entering any instructions into the Euroclear System
pursuant to this Agreement as soon as reasonably practicable
after the receipt by the Bank of:
(i)	 any written notice of a withdrawal by Seller or Purchaser
of its authorisation(s) under Section 5(a) (Authority of the
Bank to Enter Instructions into the Euroclear System);
(ii)	any written notice of default with respect to Seller or
Purchaser or one or more of their Clients, if applicable,
under the Master Repurchase Agreement sent by Seller
or Purchaser to the Bank (unless and until Seller or
Purchaser, as the case may be, withdraws such notice of
default by notice to the Bank); or
(iii)	any written notice from Seller or Purchaser that it has
filed for bankruptcy or declared that it is insolvent
or bankrupt or that it has become the subject of any
involuntary proceeding in respect of its insolvency or
bankruptcy,
provided that, in each case, the Bank will enter instructions in
accordance with (x) subsequent matching notices from Seller
and Purchaser to the Bank or (y) a final order (whether or not
subject to appeal) of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(b)	 Continuing Disputes

In the event of any other (x) dispute between or conflicting
claims, demands, notices or instructions by Seller, Purchaser,
a Client and/or any other person or (y) conflicting notices by
Seller or Purchaser, with respect to any cash credited to any
Purchaser’s Account or to Seller’s Account, any Securities,
Seller’s Account or any Purchaser’s Account (other than
withdrawals of authorisation, notices of default or filings
for or declarations of insolvency or bankruptcy notified to
the Bank pursuant to Section 9(a), the Bank may decline
to comply with any and all claims, demands, notices or
instructions or to take any action hereunder with respect to
the cash, the Securities, Seller’s Account or the Purchaser’s
Account as long as that dispute or conflict is continuing. The
Bank will not be liable for any Losses arising out of such
failure to act or to comply with such claims, demands, notices
or instructions.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The dispute or conflict will be deemed to continue and the
Bank will be entitled to refuse to act or comply until either:
(i)	 the conflicting or adverse claims or demands have been
determined in a court of competent jurisdiction or settled
by agreement among the conflicting parties and/or such a
court; or
(ii) 	the Bank has received security or an indemnity
satisfactory to it sufficient to hold it harmless from and
against any and all Losses which it may incur by reason
of taking any action directly or indirectly in connection
with this Agreement.
The Bank may assume that no disputes or conflicting claims or
notices exist unless it has received a copy of a written notice
thereof sent by Seller to Purchaser or by Purchaser to Seller.

10.	Termination
(a)	 Termination on Notice

Except as provided in Section 18(e) (Survival), this
Agreement may be terminated by any party hereto on
30 Business Days’ written notice to the other parties. In spite
of any such notice of termination, this Agreement will remain
applicable to any Transactions then outstanding.
(b)	 Immediate Termination

The Bank may terminate this Agreement immediately with
respect to all outstanding Transactions and all proposed
transactions in the event that:
(i)	 any representation made by Seller or Purchaser in this
Agreement will have been incorrect or untrue in any
material respect when made or repeated or deemed to
have been made or repeated;
(ii)	Seller or Purchaser ceases to be a Participant in the
Euroclear System; or
(iii)	the Master Repurchase Agreement is terminated.

RSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP70010

7

Exhibit P-7

(c)	 Termination on Revocation of Representative’s Authority

If a Representative’s authority to take action hereunder
for the benefit of a Client is revoked by such Client, such
Representative may, by giving written notice (which notice
shall be conclusive evidence of such revocation for the
purposes of this Agreement) to the Bank specifying the
relevant outstanding Transactions and the date at which
such revocation came or will come into effect, terminate this
Agreement with respect to such outstanding Transactions
between Seller and Purchaser, and all such proposed
transactions between Seller and Purchaser, in each case, as
have been, or are proposed to be, entered into for the benefit
of such Client.

In addition, if the Bank receives written notice from a
Representative or its Client that such Representative’s
authority as aforesaid has been revoked by such Client and
specifying the relevant outstanding Transactions and the
date at which such revocation came or will come into effect
(which notice shall be conclusive evidence of such revocation
for the purposes of this Agreement), the Bank may, in its
discretion, by giving notice to Seller and Purchaser either:
(i)	 terminate this Agreement with respect to all outstanding
Transactions and all proposed transactions; or
(ii)	terminate this Agreement with respect to such outstanding
Transactions and all such proposed transactions, in each
case, as have been, or are proposed to be, entered into for
the benefit of such Client.
Termination of this Agreement pursuant to this Section 10(c)
will take place either immediately, if according to the relevant
notice the revocation of the Representative’s authority already
came into effect, or as from the date at which the relevant
notice states that such revocation will come into effect.
(d)	 Delivery after Termination

Upon the effectiveness of any termination of this Agreement
as aforesaid, or as soon thereafter as is reasonably practicable,
the Bank will, unless otherwise directed by Seller and
Purchaser and subject to Section 9 (Effect of Certain Events
and Disputes) of this Agreement and subject to Section
14(d) of the Terms and Conditions, cause to be delivered
to Purchaser any amounts of Cash Margin and Purchased
Securities then credited to any Purchaser’s Account and to
Seller any amounts of cash and securities then credited to
Seller’s Account.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

11.	Confidentiality
The Bank represents to each of Seller and Purchaser that
information which reveals or relates to, or which would
permit the determination of the Euroclear securities positions
of, or Transactions by, Seller and/or its Client and Purchaser
and/or any of its Clients, respectively (including any future
or planned securities positions or transactions), or the type
and amount of any Purchased Securities, will only be used by
the Bank in connection with the operation of the Euroclear
System or the provision of banking services to Purchaser or
Seller, as the case may be.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Bank may, where it is
bound by the law of any territory or country or pursuant
to any requirement of any regulatory body, disclose any
information or produce any document in its possession or
control. If the Bank discloses information concerning Seller
and/or its Client (if applicable) or Purchaser and/or any of its
Clients (if applicable) to any such regulatory body, the Bank
will inform Seller or Purchaser, as appropriate, unless the
Bank may not do so or has been requested not to do so by
such regulatory authority.

12.	Amendments
(a)	 RSA Terms and Conditions

These RSA Terms and Conditions may only be amended or
modified by a written agreement executed by the parties and
the Annexes I and II may be amended or modified only by a
written agreement, except as set forth in paragraphs (b), (c)
and (d) below. Unconditional SWIFT Elections may only be
amended or modified by:
(i)	 establishing a new set of Unconditional SWIFT Elections,
in place of the then current Unconditional SWIFT
Elections, by repeating the procedure set out in Section
2(d) and (e); or
(ii)	complying with the procedures for unilateral amendment
set out in paragraph (b) below.
An amendment under this Section 12(a) is effective when the
Bank notifies Seller and Purchaser that it is effective.

RSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP70011

8

Exhibit P-7

(b)	 Unilateral Amendment

Purchaser may, upon notice to and with the consent of
the Bank, amend Annexes I and II to include in Eligible
Securities one or more types of security, identified by ISIN
or Common Code, without the agreement of Seller.
Seller may, upon notice to and with the consent of the Bank,
amend Annexes I and II to exclude from Eligible Securities,
for a stated period or until a subsequent notice of Seller is
given (with the consent of the Bank) to include such Eligible
Securities again, one or more types of security, identified by
ISIN or Common Code, without the agreement of Purchaser.
The Bank may, upon notice to Seller and Purchaser, amend
Annexes I and II to exclude any security or securities from
Eligible Securities or any currency or currencies from Eligible
Cash without the agreement of Seller or Purchaser.
An amendment under this Section 12(b) must be in writing,
which may include a facsimile or SWIFT message, and will
be effective when the Bank notifies Seller and Purchaser that
it is effective.
(c)	 Unilateral Amendment to Discontinue AutoSelect

Purchaser may at any time, by giving notice to the Bank
before the deadline indicated in the Timetable for Allocation
Mode Management (as defined in the RSA Operating
Procedures), amend this Agreement to discontinue the use
of AutoSelect, without the agreement of Seller or the Bank,
for one or more Eligibility Sets or for all Eligibility Sets,
effective as of the Business Day indicated in the Timetable.
(d)	 RSA Operating Procedures

The Bank may amend the RSA Operating Procedures at any
time by notice to Seller and Purchaser. Seller and Purchaser
will be deemed to have agreed to and accepted any such
amendment (i) effective immediately, if the amendment does
not adversely affect Seller or Purchaser or (ii) effective
30 Business Days after the Bank sends it, for any other
amendment.
(e)	 No Waivers

No waiver, or acceptance of performance other than as
provided in this Agreement, on the part of any party will be a
waiver, or acceptance of such performance, in the future. The
Bank’s acceptance, in its discretion, of any notice or notices
from Seller or Purchaser received after the relevant deadline
set out in the Timetable does not oblige it to accept any such
notice so received in the future.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

13.	 Agreement of the Parties
If any provision of this Agreement is inconsistent or in
conflict with any provision of the Master Repurchase
Agreement (including any provisions to the effect that such
Master Repurchase Agreement will prevail over any other
agreement), this Agreement will prevail.

14.	 Applicable Law; Jurisdiction
This Agreement and any dispute or claim arising out of
or in connection with it or its subject matter or formation
(including non-contractual disputes or claims) will be
governed by and construed in accordance with English law.
Each of Seller and Purchaser irrevocably agrees for the
exclusive benefit of the Bank that the Courts of England are
to have jurisdiction to settle any disputes or claims which
may arise out of or in connection with this Agreement or
its subject matter or formation (including non-contractual
disputes or claims) and that, accordingly, any suit, action
or proceeding arising out of or in connection with this
Agreement or its subject matter or formation (including
non-contractual disputes or claims) may be brought in such
Courts. Nothing contained in this Section 14 will limit the
right of the Bank to take any such suit, action or proceeding
against each of Seller and Purchaser or both in any other court
of competent jurisdiction nor will the taking of such suit,
action or proceeding in one or more jurisdictions preclude
the taking of any such suit, action or proceeding in any other
jurisdiction by the Bank whether concurrently or not, to the
extent permitted by the law of such other jurisdiction.
The Seller and Purchaser waive (and agree not to raise) any
objection, on the ground of forum non conveniens or any
other ground, to the taking of proceedings by the Bank in
any court in accordance with this Section 14. The Seller
and Purchaser also agree that a judgment against one or
both of them in the Bank’s favour in proceedings brought in
any jurisdiction in accordance with this Section 14 shall be
conclusive and binding upon them and may be enforced in
any other jurisdiction.

RSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP70012

9

Exhibit P-7

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

15.	 Waiver of Immunity

18.	Miscellaneous

Each of Seller and Purchaser waives, to the fullest extent
permitted by applicable law, all immunity (on the basis of
sovereignty or otherwise) from jurisdiction, attachment (both
before and after judgment) and execution to which it might
otherwise be entitled in any suit, action or proceeding in the
Courts of England or of any other country or jurisdiction
relating in any way to this Agreement and agrees that it will
not raise, claim or cause to be pleaded any such immunity at
or in respect of any such suit, action or proceeding.

(a)	Notices

16.	Domicile
Each of Seller and Purchaser elects domicile in Belgium at
the Bank for the purpose of any suit, action or proceeding in
Belgium arising out of or relating to this Agreement and will
appoint promptly on request from the Bank authorised agents
in London for the purpose of receiving service of process in
any such suit, action or proceeding in England.

17.	 Service of Process
Each of Seller and Purchaser consents to the service of any
and all process, notices or other documents which may be
served in any such suit, action or proceeding either:
(i)	 by mailing a copy thereof to its address referred to in
Section 18(a) (Notices) by registered or certified mail;
(ii)	by serving a copy thereof at its domicile in Belgium
or upon any agent for service appointed as provided in
Section 16 (Domicile) (whether or not the election of
domicile or the appointment of such agent for service of
process will for any reason prove to be ineffective or such
agent will fail to accept or acknowledge such service) and
mailing a copy thereof to its address referred to in
Section 18(a) (Notices) by registered or certified mail; or
(iii)	in any other manner permitted by applicable law.
Each of Seller and Purchaser waives all claims of error by
reason of any service in accordance with this Section 17 and
agrees that such service (x) will be deemed in every respect
effective service of process upon it and (y) will be taken and
held to be valid personal service upon and personal delivery
to it.

Unless otherwise specified herein, notices required by this
Unless otherwise specified herein, notices required by this
Agreement must be in writing (which will include, without
limitation, facsimile, EUCLID, EasyWay or SWIFT).
Seller and Purchaser agree that any notices given under
this Agreement will be sent to the Bank to the attention of
‘Collateral Management Administration’ at the
address set forth in Exhibit 1 or to the attention of such other
contact at such other address as the Bank may from time to
time designate to Seller and Purchaser in writing. The Bank
is not required to comply with and is not deemed to have any
notice or knowledge of any notice sent by any Client.
Any notice to Seller or Purchaser authorised or required by
this Agreement will be addressed to the persons indicated at
the addresses set forth in Exhibit 1 or to such other person
or persons as the receiving party may from time to time
designate to the other parties in writing.
Chapter 3 (Transaction Processing) of the RSA Operating
Procedures contains the Timetable, setting out the deadlines
by which the various notices must be received by the Bank
for processing. The Bank may, in its sole discretion, attempt
to process notices received or validated after the deadlines
set forth in the Timetable. Notices will be effective from the
time they are actually received by the intended recipient by
telephone, facsimile, EUCLID, EasyWay or SWIFT or any
other means designated by the Bank.
In any situation in which this Agreement requires written
notice, the Bank may but is not required to act on oral notice
reasonably believed by it to be notice of a person acting on
behalf of Seller or Purchaser or, for the purposes of
Section 10(c) (Termination on Revocation of Representative’s
Authority), a Client or a person purporting to be a Client,
as the case may be, or on data received over any electronic
system whereby the receiver is able to verify by code or
otherwise with reasonable certainty the identity of the sender
of such communication. Seller and Purchaser shall confirm
in writing any oral or electronic data notice. Failure to
confirm in writing or any conflict between subsequent written
notices and oral or data notices will not affect the authority
of any acts taken or omitted by the Bank pursuant to oral or
electronic data notices. The Bank reserves the right to record
telephone conversations with Seller or Purchaser and to refer
to such recordings in the event of any dispute. Nothing in this
paragraph permits oral amendments to this Agreement.

RSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP70013

10

Exhibit P-7

(b)	 Binding Agreement; Assignment and Novation

The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and
inure to the benefit of the Bank, Seller and Purchaser and
their respective successors and assigns (including any trustee,
conservator or other officer of the court in any bankruptcy or
insolvency proceeding), subject to the next paragraph.
The rights and obligations of each party under this Agreement
may not be assigned or novated without the written consent of
the other parties and any assignment or novation without such
consent will be null and void.
(c)	Severability

Each provision and agreement in this Agreement will be
separate from any other provision or agreement in this
Agreement and will be enforceable, notwithstanding the
unenforceability of any other provision or agreement.
(d)	Representatives

Despite the fact that any Representative is acting for the
benefit of any Client in connection with this Agreement:
(i)	 that Representative will have and be entitled to assert
any claim, counterclaim or defence in connection with
this Agreement or the Bank’s performance of services
under this Agreement only to the extent that it has or is
entitled to assert that claim, counterclaim or defence in its
capacity as a principal party to this Agreement;
(ii)	that Representative shall be liable for the performance of
all its obligations and for all its indemnities given under
this Agreement, including but not limited to the indemnity
contained in Section 8 (Indemnification), as a principal
party to this Agreement;
(iii)	no Client is a party to this Agreement and no Client
will have any rights under or in connection with this
Agreement against the Bank; and
(iv)	the Bank will have obligations under or in connection
with this Agreement only to Seller and Purchaser and will
not be liable to any Client under or in connection with this
Agreement in any manner whatsoever (including, without
limitation, in contract or in tort).
(e)	Survival

All releases, limitations of liability and indemnifications
provided in this Agreement will survive the termination of
this Agreement.
(f)	

Headings and References

The headings and captions in this Agreement are for reference
only and will not affect the construction or interpretation of
any of its provisions.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

19.	Glossary
References in this Agreement to the singular include the
plural, and vice versa.
The following words, as used in this Agreement, have the
following meanings:
‘Agreement’ has the meaning set forth in the first sentence of
this Agreement.
‘AutoSelect’ means an electronic processing module owned by
the Bank designed to facilitate the selection of securities for
Triparty Agreements.
‘AutoSelect Methodology’ means the method by which
the AutoSelect processing module selects securities to be
transferred between Seller’s Account and counterparty
accounts, as described in Chapter 6 (AutoSelect Processing
Methodology) of the RSA Operating Procedures.
‘AutoSelect Processing’ means an option in Annexes I and II
which determines whether or not Seller and Purchaser may
use AutoSelect processing of Transactions in an Eligibility
Set under this Agreement.

means a Transaction that is
processed by the Bank using AutoSelect.

‘AutoSelect Transaction’

‘Bank’ means Euroclear Bank and its successors and assigns,
as repurchase service agent under this Agreement.

means a day when the operation of the
Euroclear System takes place.

‘Business Day’

‘Cash’

means Eligible Cash or Cash Margin.

means, with respect to a Transaction:
•	 the Eligible Cash, if any, credited with respect to such
Transaction to the relevant Purchaser’s Account pursuant
to a margin deficit adjustment; or
•	 a sum of money equivalent to the proceeds from the
redemption of any Purchased Security or proceeds
received as consideration upon a takeover or similar event
with respect to any Purchased Security,
increased or decreased by any cash credited or debited, as the
case may be, to the relevant Purchaser’s Account from time
to time with respect to such Transaction pursuant to a margin
adjustment, a substitution of Eligible Securities for Cash
Margin, a Transaction-size decrease or a closing pursuant to
this Agreement.
‘Cash Margin’

‘Claims’ means any claim, demand, action, investigation or
administrative proceeding made or brought by an Indemnitor
or any Related Party of that Indemnitor in connection with
this Agreement.

RSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP70014

11

Exhibit P-7

means each person other than Seller or Purchaser:
•	 who has entered into, or who will enter into, the Master
Repurchase Agreement with Seller or Purchaser; or
•	 for whose benefit Seller or Purchaser has entered into, or
will enter into, the Master Repurchase Agreement,
and for whose benefit Seller or Purchaser has entered into, or
will enter into, this Agreement.
‘Client’

‘Eligibility Set’ means the Eligible Securities and Eligible
Cash identified in each set of Annexes I and II or by way
of the Unconditional SWIFT Elections, as such Annexes or
Unconditional SWIFT Elections may be amended from time
to time, and the options, amounts and percentages selected
in the corresponding set of Annexes I and II or by way of
the Unconditional SWIFT Elections, as such Annexes or
Unconditional SWIFT Elections may be amended from time
to time.

means on any date:
•	 any Settlement Currency which Seller and Purchaser have
designated as the securities denomination currency of an
Eligible Security in the applicable Eligibility Set in Annexes
I and II or by way of the Unconditional SWIFT Elections,
as such Annexes or Unconditional SWIFT Elections may be
amended from time to time; and
•	 if any such currency has been replaced by the euro, the
euro; and
•	 with respect to a Transaction, the Transaction Currency of
that Transaction.
‘Eligible Cash’

‘Eligible Securities’ means on any date any of the Eurocleareligible securities of a type which Seller and Purchaser have
agreed, with the consent of the Bank, will be eligible as of
such date to become Collateral securities for a Transaction
by their inclusion in the applicable set in Annexes I and II
or by way of the Unconditional SWIFT Elections, as such
Annexes or Unconditional SWIFT Elections may be amended
from time to time, and as may be limited by certain options
in the corresponding set of Annexes I and II or by way of
the Unconditional SWIFT Elections, as such Annexes or
Unconditional SWIFT Elections may be amended from time
to time.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

means, with respect to any Transaction:
•	 securities of the same issuer, being of an identical type,
nominal value, description and amount to the Purchased
Securities with respect to such Transaction; or
•	 in relation to Purchased Securities which are partly paid
or have been converted, subdivided, consolidated, made
the subject of a takeover, capitalisation issue, rights issue,
redenomination or event similar to any of the foregoing,
the following:
-	 in the case of conversion, subdivision or
consolidation, securities equivalent to the securities
into which the Purchased Securities have been
converted, subdivided or consolidated;
-	 in the case of takeover, securities equivalent to the
consideration or alternative consideration received;
-	 in the case of a call on partly paid securities, securities
equivalent to the paid-up securities;
-	 in the case of a capitalisation issue, securities
equivalent to the Purchased Securities together with
the securities allotted by way of bonus thereon;
-	 in the case of a rights issue, securities equivalent to
the Purchased Securities together with the securities
allotted in respect thereof;
-	 in the event that income in the form of securities, or
a certificate which may at a future date be exchanged
for securities or an entitlement to acquire securities
is distributed, securities equivalent to the Purchased
Securities together with securities or a certificate or an
entitlement equivalent to those allotted;
-	 in the case of a redenomination into euro (and a
related renominalisation, if applicable), securities of
the same issuer, being of an identical type, nominal
value, description and amount to the redenominated
(and renominalised, if applicable) Purchased
Securities; and
-	 in the case of any event similar to any of the
foregoing, securities equivalent to the Purchased
Securities together with or replaced by securities or
other property equivalent to that received in respect of
such Purchased Securities resulting from such event.
‘Equivalent Securities’

‘Euroclear Operator’ means Euroclear Bank, and its successors
and assigns, acting in its capacity as operator of the Euroclear
System.

means the clearance system for
internationally traded securities operated under contract by the
Euroclear Operator.

‘Euroclear System’

means the Euroclear Tariff folder (which
includes a general fees brochure and specific tariff sheets)
distributed to all Participants, as may be amended from time
to time.

‘Euroclear Tariff’

RSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP70015

12

Exhibit P-7

means, at any time, any of the
securities accepted at that time for deposit into the Euroclear
System in accordance with the Operating Procedures.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

means an option in Annexes I
and II which determines whether or not Purchaser may open
more than one Purchaser’s Account.

‘Euroclear-eligible securities’

‘Multiple Purchaser Accounts’

means any event or circumstance beyond the
reasonable control of the Bank, including, without limitation,
war, insurrection, riot, civil commotion, act of God, accident,
fire, water damage, explosion, mechanical breakdown,
computer or systems failure or other equipment failure, failure
or malfunctioning of any communications media for whatever
reason (whether or not such media are made available to
Seller or Purchaser by the Bank), interruption (partial or
total) of power supply or other utility or service, strike or
other labour stoppage (partial or total) and any law, decree,
regulation or order of any government or governmental body
(including any court or tribunal).

‘Net Paying Security’ means any security with respect to
which any interest, dividend or other distribution payable by
the issuer to either Seller or Purchaser is required by law to
be paid subject to withholding or deduction for or on account
of taxes or duties of any nature imposed, levied, collected,
withheld or assessed by any authority having power to tax.

‘Force Majeure’

means each of the Bank, its officers,
directors and employees.
‘Indemnified Party’

‘Indemnitor’

means Seller or Purchaser, as the case may be.

‘Intended Purchase Price’ means, with respect to a
Transaction, the amount indicated as such in the matching
initiation notice, increased by amounts of cash proposed to be
transferred from Purchaser’s Account to Seller’s Account in
a matching notice of Transaction-size increase and decreased
by amounts of cash proposed to be transferred from Seller’s
Account to Purchaser’s Account in a matching notice of
Transaction-size decrease or pursuant to a closing.
‘Internet Report’ means the internet report made available at
the website of the Euroclear System by the Bank as described
in Chapter 5 (Reporting by the Bank) of the RSA Operating
Procedures to recipients subscribing for the service in a
separate subscription agreement.

means, in relation to any person, any losses,
liabilities, obligations, fines, penalties, damages, taxes (other
than taxes on the overall income of such person), costs,
expenses (to the extent reasonable and other than ordinary
administrative expenses) or fees (including reasonable
counsel’s fees and accountant’s fees) of any kind or nature
whatsoever at any time.

‘Losses’

‘Manual Transaction’ means a Transaction that is not an
AutoSelect Transaction.

means one or more master
agreement(s) between applicable Seller and Purchaser and/or
one or more of their respective Clients under which Seller and
Purchaser and/or one or more of their respective Clients may
enter into repurchase transactions from time to time.

‘Master Repurchase Agreement’

means The Operating Procedures of
the Euroclear System established in accordance with Section
3 of the Terms and Conditions, as such Operating Procedures
may be amended from time to time.

‘Operating Procedures’

has the meaning set forth in the first sentence of
this Agreement.

‘Purchaser’

‘Purchaser’s Account’ means the Securities Clearance
Account (or, in the case of Multiple Purchaser Accounts,
one of such Securities Clearance Accounts) in the Euroclear
System in the name of Purchaser and the Cash Account in
the Euroclear System in the name of Purchaser associated
therewith, the number of which is indicated in Annexes I
and II , which will be used only for Securities and Cash,
respectively, with respect to Transactions under this
Agreement and which in each case shall be designated a
‘client account’ if Purchaser has entered into this Agreement
for the benefit of one or more Clients.

means, with respect to any Transaction:
•	 the Eligible Securities credited with respect to such
Transaction to the relevant Purchaser’s Account as
of the relevant Purchase Date (as defined in the RSA
Operating Procedures), increased or decreased by any
Securities credited or debited, as the case may be, to that
Purchaser’s Account from time to time with respect to
such Transaction pursuant to this Agreement; or
•	 Equivalent Securities thereto.
‘Purchased Securities’

in respect of an Indemnitor means any agent
(including employees of such agent), employee, client
(including Clients) or any other person for whose benefit
or on whose behalf that Indemnitor acts or who acts for the
benefit of or on behalf of that Indemnitor.

‘Related Party’

‘Representative’ means either or each of Seller and Purchaser
if it has entered into, or will enter into, this Agreement for the
benefit of one or more Clients.

RSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP70016

13

Exhibit P-7

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

means the Repurchase Service
Agreement Operating Procedures, as amended from time to
time, which, together with the RSA Terms and Conditions,
form one contractual agreement.

‘RSA Operating Procedures’

means these Repurchase Service
Agreement Terms and Conditions, which, together with the
RSA Operating Procedures, form one contractual agreement.

‘RSA Terms and Conditions’

‘Securities’

means Eligible Securities or Purchased Securities.

‘Seller’ has the meaning set forth in the first sentence of this
Agreement.

‘ means a Securities Clearance Account
in the Euroclear System in the name of Seller and the Cash
Account in the Euroclear System in the name of Seller
associated therewith, the number of which is indicated in
the Annexes, which will be used for Securities and Cash,
respectively, with respect to Transactions and which in each
case will be designated a ‘client account’ if Seller has entered
into this Agreement for the benefit of one Client.

‘Seller’s Account’

‘Settlement Currency’ at any time means any of the currencies
accepted at that time in the Euroclear System as a Settlement
Currency in accordance with the Operating Procedures.
‘Terms and Conditions’ means the Terms and Conditions
Governing Use of Euroclear, as amended from time to time.

means the table of deadlines set forth in Chapter 3
(Transaction Processing) of the RSA Operating Procedures,
as amended from time to time.

‘Timetable’

‘Transaction’ means any repurchase transaction governed by
the Master Repurchase Agreement and this Agreement.

means, with respect to a Transaction,
the currency in which the Intended Purchase Price is
denominated.

‘Transaction Currency’

‘Triparty Agreement’ means an agreement among two
Participants and the Bank under which the Bank serves as
service agent.
‘Unconditional SWIFT Elections’

section 2(e) of this Agreement.

has the meaning set forth in

20.	Effectiveness
(A)	 This Agreement will become binding upon Seller,
Purchaser and the Bank if:
(i)	 the Bank has executed this Agreement, previously
signed by Seller and Purchaser; and
(ii)	 the Bank has received from Purchaser the duly
authorised and executed documentation relating to
the opening of the Purchaser’s Account (or, in the
case of Multiple Purchaser Accounts, the opening of
all such accounts); and
(iii)	 the Bank has notified Seller and Purchaser that the
Agreement is effective.
(B)	 Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (A) above,
this Agreement will also become binding upon Seller,
Purchaser and the Bank if:
(i)	 the Seller and the Bank have executed the Form of
Agreement RG 810 specifying (a) the Repurchase
Service Agreement under ‘Specific services’ or (b)
all collateral management service agreements under
‘All services’ or such other form and in such manner
as may be specified by the Bank; and
(ii)	 the Purchaser and the Bank have executed the Form
of Agreement RG 810 specifying (a) the Repurchase
Service Agreement under ‘Specific services’ or (b)
all collateral management service agreements under
‘All services’ or such other form and in such manner
as may be specified by the Bank; and
(iii)	 either Seller or Purchaser have duly executed
Annexes I and II and the provisions of Sections 2(d),
(e) and (f) of this Agreement are complied with in
relation to such Annexes; and
(iv)	 the Bank has received from Purchaser the duly
authorised and executed documentation relating to
the opening of the Purchaser Account (or, in the
case of Multiple Purchaser Accounts, the opening of
all such accounts); and
(v)	 the Bank has notified Seller and Purchaser that the
Agreement is effective.

21.	Counterparts
This Agreement may be executed in any number of
counterparts, each of which will be deemed to be an original,
and all of which together will be one agreement.

RSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP70017

14

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

© 2015 Euroclear Bank SA/NV, 1 Boulevard du Roi Albert II, 1210 Brussels, Belgium – Tel: +32 (0)2 326 1211 –
RPM Brussels number 0429 875 591 – Euroclear is the marketing name for the Euroclear System, Euroclear plc,
Euroclear SA/NV and their affiliates.
Euroclear is a carbon neutral company – PAS2060 certified in 2015

LG022

Exhibit P-7

www.euroclear.com

EXP70018

Exhibit P-9

August 2015

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Securities Lending Service
Agreement
Terms and Conditions

Post-trade made easy

EXP90001

Exhibit P-9

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Securities Lending Service Agreement
Terms and Conditions

(to be read in conjunction with the SLSA Operating Procedures)

Table of Contents
1.	 Appointment and Acceptance of the Bank .................................................................. 1
2.	Selections ............................................................................................................ 1

(a)	 Eligible Securities and Eligible Cash .......................................................................
(b)	 Eligibility Set Profiles .........................................................................................
(c)	Annexes . . ........................................................................................................
(d)	 Conditional SWIFT Elections . . ..............................................................................
(e)	 Unconditional SWIFT Elections . . ...........................................................................
(f)	 Parties’ obligations in relation to SWIFT Elections ......................................................

1
1
1
2
2
2

3.	 Euroclear System .................................................................................................. 2
4.	Representations .................................................................................................... 2

(a)	 Representations of Borrower and Lender .................................................................. 2
(b)	 Representations of the Bank . . ................................................................................ 3

5.	Transactions ........................................................................................................ 3

(a)	 Authority of the Bank to Enter Instructions into the Euroclear System . . .............................
(b)	 Authority of the Bank to Use AutoSelect ..................................................................
(c)	 Authority of Borrower to Use AutoSelect and of Lender to Discontinue AutoSelect ..............
(d)	 AutoSelect Acknowledgements . . ............................................................................
(e)	 Access of Borrower to Lender’s Reports .. .................................................................
(f)	 Authority for Internet Reporting . . ...........................................................................

3
3
3
4
4
4

6.	 Bank Fees . . .......................................................................................................... 4
7.	 Duties and Liabilities of the Bank .............................................................................. 4

(a)	General . . .........................................................................................................
(b)	 Borrower’s and Lender’s Responsibilities .................................................................
(c)	 Bank’s Notice and Inquiry . . ..................................................................................
(d)	 Notices to Bank ................................................................................................
(e)	 AutoSelect Allocation .........................................................................................
(f)	 Price Data .......................................................................................................
(g)	 Force Majeure ..................................................................................................

4
5
5
5
5
6
6

8.	Indemnification ..................................................................................................... 6

(a)	 Indemnitor’s Instructions, Default or Breach . . ............................................................
(b)	 Bank’s Performance ...........................................................................................
(c)	 Breach and Related Party Claims .. ..........................................................................
(d)	 Burden of Proof ................................................................................................
(e)	Limitations ......................................................................................................

6
6
6
6
6

SLSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP90002

Exhibit P-9

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

9.	 Effect of Certain Events and Disputes ........................................................................ 7

(a)	 Withdrawal of Authorisation, Notice of Default
under the Securities Lending Agreement or Insolvency ................................................. 7
(b)	 Continuing Disputes ........................................................................................... 7

10. Termination .......................................................................................................... 7

(a)	 Termination on Notice ........................................................................................
(b)	 Immediate Termination .......................................................................................
(c)	 Termination on Revocation of Representative’s Authority .............................................
(d)	 Delivery after Termination ...................................................................................

7
7
8
8

11.	Confidentiality . . ..................................................................................................... 8
12.	Amendments ........................................................................................................ 8

(a)	 SLSA Terms and Conditions . . ...............................................................................
(b)	 Unilateral Amendment ........................................................................................
(c)	 Unilateral Amendment to Discontinue AutoSelect .......................................................
(d)	 SLSA Operating Procedures .................................................................................
(e)	 No Waivers .. ....................................................................................................

8
9
9
9
9

13. Agreement of the Parties ......................................................................................... 9
14.	 Applicable Law; Jurisdiction .. ................................................................................... 9
15.	 Waiver of Immunity .............................................................................................. 10
16.	Domicile ............................................................................................................ 10
17.	 Service of Process ............................................................................................... 10
18.	Miscellaneous . . ................................................................................................... 10

(a)	Notices .........................................................................................................
(b)	 Binding Agreement; Assignment and Novation ........................................................
(c)	Severability .. ..................................................................................................
(d)	Representatives ...............................................................................................
(e)	Survival ........................................................................................................
(f)	 Headings and References ...................................................................................

10
11
11
11
11
11

19.	Glossary ............................................................................................................ 11
20.	Effectiveness ...................................................................................................... 14
21.	Counterparts ...................................................................................................... 14

Exhibit 1 – Addresses
Annexes I and II (included in folder)

SLSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP90003

Exhibit P-9

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Securities Lending Service Agreement
The triparty securities lending service agreement (the ‘Agreement’) comprises two parts, the SLSA Terms and Conditions and the
SLSA Operating Procedures.
All references to ‘the Agreement’ or ‘this Agreement’ are to the SLSA Terms and Conditions and the SLSA Operating Procedures,
both as amended from time to time, which are to be read and construed as, and which together form, one contractual agreement.

SLSA Terms and Conditions

1.	 Appointment and Acceptance of the Bank

Borrower or one or more of its Clients (if applicable) and
Lender or one or more of its Clients (if applicable) have
entered into a Securities Lending Agreement under which
Borrower or one or more of its Clients (if applicable) may
borrow securities from Lender or one or more of its Clients
(if applicable) from time to time subject to the provision
by Borrower or one or more of its Clients (if applicable)
of security for such loan(s). If Borrower and/or Lender is a
Representative, it has agreed with each Client to enter into
this Agreement for its benefit.

Each of Borrower and Lender appoints the Bank as securities
lending service agent to carry out the duties described in this
Agreement and to take any actions incidental to those duties.
The Bank accepts such appointment and consents to act as
securities lending service agent to carry out only those duties.

Borrower and Lender have requested the Bank to perform
certain service functions to support those secured loans.
Therefore, in consideration of the mutual promises included
in this Agreement and intending to be legally bound hereby,
the parties agree to the following terms.

Borrower and Lender, with the consent of the Bank, by
executing Annexes I and II, have selected in Annexes I and II
Eligible Securities and Eligible Cash, in one or more sets, to
be used with respect to Transactions under this Agreement.

Capitalised words used in these SLSA Terms and Conditions
have the meanings assigned to them in Section 19 (Glossary).
Capitalised words used only in the SLSA Operating Procedures
have the meanings assigned to them in Chapter 9 (Glossary)
of the SLSA Operating Procedures. If any capitalised word is
defined in both these SLSA Terms and Conditions and the
SLSA Operating Procedures, and the definitions assigned are
inconsistent, the definition in these SLSA Terms and Conditions
will prevail. If capitalised terms are used but not defined, they
have the meaning assigned to them in the Terms and Conditions
and the Operating Procedures. The use of the term ‘type’ with
respect to securities means securities with the same security
code and description.

Borrower and Lender, with the consent of the Bank, by
checking the relevant boxes or filling in the relevant lines
in Annexes I and II and executing Annexes I and II, have
selected certain options, amounts and percentages applicable
to each set of Eligible Securities and Eligible Cash. If no
selection is made with respect to a given option, amount or
percentage, the default selection, as indicated in Annexes I
and II, will apply.

2.	Selections
(a)	 Eligible Securities and Eligible Cash

(b)	 Eligibility Set Profiles

(c)	Annexes

Borrower, Lender and the Bank agree to the selections made
in Annexes I and II (as the same may be amended from
time to time in accordance with Section 12 (Amendments)).
Annexes I and II and any other numbered Annexes to this
Agreement form an integral part of this Agreement.

SLSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP90004

1

Exhibit P-9

(d)	 Conditional SWIFT Elections

If only Borrower or Lender executes Annexes I and II, the
provisions of this paragraph (d) and Section 2(e) and (f) shall
apply instead of Section 2(a) to (c).
Borrower or Lender, with the consent of the Bank, having
completed and executed Annexes I and II, sends such Annexes
to the Bank, indicating the name of the Eligibility Set and
set number (the ‘Completed Annexes’). The Bank will upon
receipt of the Completed Annexes, provide this documentation
to the counterparty Borrower or Lender, as indicated by
Borrower or Lender.
If Borrower and Lender want to initiate Transactions on the
basis of the Completed Annexes, Borrower and Lender shall
each send a SWIFT message to the Bank in a form specified
by the Bank which refers to the (i) name of the Eligibility Set,
(ii) set number, and (iii) account numbers of Borrower and
Lender.
The elections made in the Completed Annexes and confirmed
by each of the Borrower and Lender in a SWIFT message are
together the ‘Conditional SWIFT Elections’.
(e)	 Unconditional SWIFT Elections

Conditional SWIFT Elections will only become binding on
the parties (i) if the Bank notifies Borrower and Lender by
SWIFT message that it consents to them and (ii) from the time
specified by the Bank in any such notice.
Conditional SWIFT Elections that have become effective
under this Section 2(e) or Section 12(a), together with
the related consenting SWIFT message sent by the
Bank, constitute the ‘Unconditional SWIFT Elections’.
Unconditional SWIFT Elections, as amended or modified
from time to time, form an integral part of this Agreement.
Borrower, Lender and the Bank agree that the Unconditional
SWIFT Elections may be amended or modified from time to
time in accordance with Section 12 (Amendments).
(f)	

Parties’ obligations in relation to SWIFT Elections

(i)	 The Bank agrees to maintain a record of all Unconditional
SWIFT Elections which have, from time to time, come
into effect under this Agreement and any unilateral
amendments or modifications to such Unconditional
SWIFT Elections made under Section 12(b).
(ii)	 The parties agree not to object to the admission as
evidence in any legal proceedings of any Unconditional
SWIFT Elections and any unilateral amendments or
modifications to such Unconditional SWIFT Elections
made under Section 12(b).

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

3.	 Euroclear System
Each of Borrower and Lender acknowledges that securities
and cash credited to Borrower’s Account or any Lender’s
Collateral Account or Lender’s Account are held in the
Euroclear System pursuant to the Terms and Conditions and
the Operating Procedures.

4.	Representations
(a)	 Representations of Borrower and Lender

Borrower and Lender each represents to the Bank and to each
other, as of the date of this Agreement and as of each date on
which a Transaction is outstanding, that:
(i)	 it is duly organised and existing under the laws of the
jurisdiction of its organisation with full power and
authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to
perform all the duties and obligations to be performed by
it under this Agreement;
(ii)	 the execution, delivery and performance by it of this
Agreement have been duly authorised, in accordance
with all requisite corporate action, and this Agreement
is a legal, valid and binding obligation of it enforceable
in accordance with its terms, except as such terms may
be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws, or
by equitable principles relating to or limiting creditors’
rights generally;
(iii)	 the execution, delivery and performance by it of this
Agreement have been and will be duly authorised by all
necessary governmental and other approvals, including
exchange control approvals;
(iv)	 the execution, delivery, and performance by it of this
Agreement and the transactions contemplated under this
Agreement do not and will not violate or constitute a
default under any agreement by which it is bound, or its
constitutional documents, or any statute, regulation, rule,
order or judgment applicable to it (including any statute,
regulation, rule, order or judgment relating to taxes);
(v)	 it has (and if it is a Representative, it has been granted
by each Client for whose benefit it has entered into the
Securities Lending Agreement and, if any Client is a
party to the Securities Lending Agreement as of such
date, such Client has) the power and authority to enter
into the Securities Lending Agreement and the secured
loans made pursuant thereto;

SLSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP90005

2

Exhibit P-9

(vi)	 it has the power and authority to deliver and transfer the
securities and cash delivered or transferred and to take
any other action hereunder and, if it is a Representative,
each Client has authorised it to execute and deliver this
Agreement and to take all such actions hereunder for
such Client’s benefit; and
(vii) in the case of Borrower, if it is a Representative and has
selected the AutoSelect Processing option in one or more
sets of Annexes I and II or by way of the Unconditional
SWIFT Elections, either:
(A)	 (x) it is not acting for the benefit of more than one
Client under this Agreement and (y) it is not acting
through Borrower’s Account for the benefit of any
other client under another Triparty Agreement; or
(B)	 it has received from each such Client or client a
specific authorisation to engage in transactions under
Triparty Agreements for the benefit of other clients
out of the same Borrower’s Account.
(b)	 Representations of the Bank

The Bank represents to each of Borrower and Lender, as of
the date of this Agreement and as of each date on which a
Transaction is outstanding, that:
(i)	 it is duly organised and existing under the laws of
Belgium with full power and authority to execute and
deliver this Agreement and to perform all the duties and
obligations to be performed by it under this Agreement;
(ii)	 the execution, delivery and performance by it of this
Agreement have been duly authorised, in accordance
with all required corporate action, and this Agreement
is a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Bank
enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as
such terms may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency
or similar laws, or by equitable principles relating to or
limiting creditors’ rights generally; and
(iii)	 the execution, delivery, and performance of this
Agreement will not violate or constitute a default under
any agreement by which it is bound, or its constitutional
documents, or any Belgian statute, regulation, rule, order
or judgment applicable to it.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

5.	Transactions
(a)	 Authority of the Bank to Enter Instructions into the
Euroclear System

Each of Borrower and Lender authorises the Bank to enter or
cancel instructions on its behalf into the Euroclear System and
to take all other actions in connection with such instructions
in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Without
limiting the foregoing, Lender authorises the Bank to accept,
subject to the satisfaction of any relevant conditions, the
written notices of Borrower identifying Securities and/or Cash
to be transferred pursuant to the SLSA Operating Procedures
until receipt by the Bank of written notice of withdrawal of
any such authorisation.
(b)	 Authority of the Bank to Use AutoSelect

If Borrower and Lender have selected the AutoSelect Processing
option in one or more sets of Annexes I and II or by way
of the Unconditional SWIFT Elections, and Lender has not
discontinued AutoSelect pursuant to Section 12(c) (Unilateral
Amendment to Discontinue AutoSelect), each of Borrower and
Lender authorises the Bank to select Securities on its behalf
and deliver them to the other in accordance with the AutoSelect
Methodology, as described in Chapter 6 (AutoSelect Processing
Methodology) of the SLSA Operating Procedures, with respect
to AutoSelect Transactions assigned to the corresponding
Eligibility Set(s).
(c)	 Authority of Borrower to Use AutoSelect and of Lender to
Discontinue AutoSelect

If Borrower and Lender have selected the AutoSelect Processing
option in one or more sets of Annexes I and II or by way
of the Unconditional SWIFT Elections, and Lender has not
discontinued AutoSelect pursuant to Section 12(c) (Unilateral
Amendment to Discontinue AutoSelect), Lender authorises the
Bank to accept the written notice of Borrower identifying or
converting an AutoSelect Transaction or a Manual Transaction
assigned to the corresponding Eligibility Set pursuant to
the procedures set forth in the SLSA Operating Procedures;
provided, however, that:
(i)	 if Lender gives the Bank a notice to convert an AutoSelect
Transaction to a Manual Transaction prior to the relevant
deadline indicated in the Timetable, the Bank will process
the Transaction as a Manual Transaction beginning on the
Business Day indicated in the Timetable, and
(ii)	 if Lender has amended this Agreement to discontinue
the use of AutoSelect for one or more Eligibility Sets
or for all Eligibility Sets by providing a notice pursuant
to Section 12(c) (Unilateral Amendment to Discontinue
AutoSelect), the Bank will process all Transactions in
those Eligibility Sets as Manual Transactions beginning
at the time that amendment is effective.

SLSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP90006

3

Exhibit P-9

Until the time, if any, that the Bank receives a notice from
Lender stating that it is willing to resume AutoSelect processing
of the Transaction (or of all the Transactions), the Bank will not
process the Transaction(s) as an AutoSelect Transaction even if
Borrower gives the Bank a notice to convert the Transaction to
an AutoSelect Transaction.
Lender will send to Borrower a copy of any notice it gives to
the Bank to convert an AutoSelect Transaction to a Manual
Transaction or to discontinue AutoSelect for all Transactions
in one or more Eligibility Sets or all Eligibility Sets, but the
failure of Lender to do so will not affect the Bank’s obligations
under the previous two paragraphs. Borrower will have no
right to contest Lender’s notice to the Bank. The Bank will
send to Borrower a copy of Lender’s notice as soon as
reasonably practicable.
(d)	 AutoSelect Acknowledgements

(i)	 Each of Borrower and Lender acknowledges that
instructions with respect to AutoSelect Transactions (if
any) are being generated and entered by the Bank on
behalf of Borrower and Lender in accordance with the
AutoSelect Methodology and such other procedures
consistent therewith as agreed to from time to time by
Borrower and the Bank and that such instructions are
generated and entered only to the extent Securities are, in
accordance with such procedures, available for allocation
and transfer.
(ii)	 Each of Borrower and Lender acknowledges that each
of them may enter into other Triparty Agreements with
the Bank under which AutoSelect processing is used for
transactions.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

6.	 Bank Fees
Unless otherwise agreed, Borrower agrees to pay to the
Bank all fees relating to Lender’s Collateral Account(s) and
all amounts (other than keying, query and communications
fees, which will be payable by the user thereof) relating to
this Agreement, in each case as such amounts are set forth in
monthly billing statements sent by the Bank to Borrower in
accordance with the Euroclear Tariff, as in effect from time
to time. Amounts payable by Borrower will be debited from
Borrower’s Account or such other Cash Account as Borrower
may specify by written notice to the Bank from time to time
or, if no such Cash Account has been duly specified, any
Cash Account of Borrower. Amounts payable by Lender will
be debited from Lender’s Collateral Account or such other
cash account as Lender may specify by written notice to the
Bank from time to time or, if no such cash account has been
duly specified, any cash account of Lender. No amount may
be debited from any account which is subject to the Pledged
Account Agreement, and a party with such an account must
specify in writing another account for the purposes of debiting
amounts under this Section 6.

7.	 Duties and Liabilities of the Bank
(a)	General

(i)	 The Bank has no obligations except as expressly set out
in this Agreement.
(ii)	 The Bank is not liable to Borrower or Lender for any
Losses arising in connection with:

(e)	 Access of Borrower to Lender’s Reports

Lender agrees to provide Borrower access to information on
future income payments and redemptions relating to Collateral
Securities that the Euroclear Operator provides to Lender in
accordance with the Operating Procedures through Euroclear
Advance Notice of Income and Redemption (ANIR) reports, or
any similar successor report.
Lender also agrees to provide Borrower access to provisional
and definitive details about upcoming option deadlines
and corporate events affecting securities held in Lender’s
Collateral Account(s) through Euroclear DACE reports that
the Euroclear Operator provides to Lender in accordance with
the Operating Procedures, or any similar successor report.
(f)	

Authority for Internet Reporting

Each of Borrower and Lender authorises the other to access,
and the Bank to make available through the Internet, the
Internet Reports.

	

(A)	 any event or matter referred to in paragraphs (i), (ii)
or (iii) of Section 8(a) (Indemnitor’s Instructions,
Default or Breach) or paragraphs (i) or (ii) of Section
8(b) (Bank’s Performance) or Section 9 (Effect of
Certain Events and Disputes) of this Agreement, or
Section 12(c) of the Terms and Conditions; or
(B)	 any act or omission of the Bank in connection with
this Agreement,
except in the case of its negligence or wilful misconduct.

(iii)	 The Bank is not liable to anyone for unforeseeable
Losses, Losses not flowing directly and naturally from
a breach of this Agreement or Losses representing loss
of profit, except in the case of its wilful misconduct and
then only to Borrower or Lender.
(iv)	 In the event of any dispute, Borrower or Lender, as the
case may be, bears the burden of proving negligence or
wilful misconduct by the Bank.

SLSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP90007

4

Exhibit P-9

(v) The Bank is not liable to anyone for any Losses arising
in connection with this Agreement, the Securities
Lending Agreement, the Pledged Account Agreement (if
applicable) or any other related agreement except, but
only to the extent specified in paragraphs (ii) and (iii)
above, to Borrower or Lender.
(vi)	Acceptance of securities into the Euroclear System
is governed by the Operating Procedures and not this
Agreement. Acceptance and setting up new securities for
use in the services described in this Agreement is not part
of the services which the Bank agrees to provide pursuant
to this Agreement.
(vii) All warranties, conditions and other terms implied by
statute or common law are, to the fullest extent permitted
by law, excluded from this Agreement.
(b)	 Borrower’s and Lender’s Responsibilities

The Bank makes no representation regarding, need not inquire
into, does not guarantee and is not liable to anyone for any
Losses arising in connection with the following, all of which
are Borrower’s and/or Lender’s sole responsibility:
(i)	 the title, validity or genuineness of any Security;
(ii)	 the legality of the loan, delivery or transfer of any Cash
or Security;

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(x)	 the value (or the sufficiency of the value) of any
Securities delivered or transferred.
(c)	 Bank’s Notice and Inquiry

Except as expressly set out in this Agreement, the Bank:
(i)	 will be deemed to have no notice of, and need not inquire
into, any transaction between Borrower and Lender (or
one or more of their respective Clients, if applicable) under
the Securities Lending Agreement or otherwise or the
performance or breach of this Agreement, the Securities
Lending Agreement, the Pledged Account Agreement (if
applicable) or any other related agreement; and
(ii)	 need not give Borrower or Lender notice of any
breach by Borrower or Lender of this Agreement or
any breach by Borrower or Lender (or one or more of
their respective Clients, if applicable) of the Securities
Lending Agreement, the Pledged Account Agreement
(if applicable) or any other related agreement.
(d)	 Notices to Bank

(i)	 The Bank may rely on any notice or data from Borrower
or Lender under this Agreement and is not liable to
anyone for any Losses arising in connection with:
(A)	 unsigned notices, or the unauthorised signing or
giving of written or oral notices by any person, or
the unauthorised alteration of them or of any other
instrument;
(B)	 the incorrectness or incompleteness of information
in any notice; or
(C)	 the incorrectness or incompleteness of data
transmitted by computer tape or terminal or other
computer facility,

(iii)	 the due authorisation of any person to act on behalf of
Borrower or Lender in connection with Eligible Cash
or Eligible Securities held in Borrower’s Account or
Collateral Cash or Collateral Securities held in any
Lender’s Collateral Account or Lender’s Account;
(iv)	 the capacity and authority of a Representative to act for
the benefit of any Client;
(v)	 the characterisation of any Security as a Net Paying
Security or the eligibility of any Security as a Collateral
Security under the Securities Lending Agreement;
(vi)	 the validity or enforceability of, or any statement
or representation made by Borrower and/or Lender
in connection with, this Agreement, the Securities
Lending Agreement, the Pledged Account Agreement (if
applicable) or any other related agreement;
(vii)	the performance of the obligations of Borrower or Lender
under this Agreement, the Securities Lending Agreement,
the Pledged Account Agreement (if applicable) or any
other related agreement or the performance of any Client
(if applicable) under the Securities Lending Agreement or
any other related agreement;
(viii)	
an extension of credit in connection with any
Transaction;
(ix)	 the settlement of instructions entered into the Euroclear
System; or

	

unless the Bank actually knows (x) that the notice or
data was not sent by Borrower or Lender; (y) of the
lack of authority; or (z) that the information or data was
incorrect.

(ii)	 The Bank is not liable to anyone for any Losses arising in
connection with:
(A)	 any notices sent otherwise than in accordance with
Section 18(a) (Notices);
(B)	 its acting upon oral notice reasonably believed by it
to be from a person acting on behalf of Borrower or
Lender, as the case may be, or on data received over
any electronic system whereby the receiver is able to
verify by code or otherwise with reasonable certainty
the identity of the sender of such communication,
even if subsequent written notices differ from such
oral or data notices; or
(C)	 its acceptance of, and its acting, in its discretion,
upon, notices from Borrower or Lender received
after the deadlines set out in the Timetable.

SLSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP90008

5

Exhibit P-9

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(e)	 AutoSelect Allocation

(b)	 Bank’s Performance

(f)	

(i)	 any act or omission of the Bank in connection with this
Agreement or the Terms and Conditions; or

The Bank makes no representation that any allocations of
securities or cash generated by AutoSelect in accordance
with this Agreement will represent the optimal allocation of
securities or cash among all AutoSelect Transactions or all
counterparties of Borrower. The Bank is not liable to anyone
for any Losses arising in connection with securities not being
optimally allocated.
Price Data

Subject to Section 8(e), Borrower and Lender will, promptly
upon demand by the Bank, jointly and severally, release,
defend, indemnify and hold harmless each Indemnified Party
for and against Losses and Claims, other than Losses or Claims
against which the Bank is indemnified under Section 8(a),
suffered by such Indemnified Party arising in connection with:

The Bank is not liable to anyone for any Losses arising in
connection with any error by, or any incorrect price received
from, any pricing or other information source used by the
Euroclear Operator in its ordinary course of business or
the appropriateness or relative change of any price and
need not determine volatility factors with respect to or the
appropriateness of any price.

except, subject to Section 8(c)(ii), Losses or Claims arising
out of the negligence or wilful misconduct of the Bank.

(g)	 Force Majeure

(c)	 Breach and Related Party Claims

If the Bank acts or fails to act (including, without limitation,
fails to receive or deliver, or cause to be received or delivered,
Securities or fails to receive or make, or cause to be received
or made, any payment) as a result of or in connection with
Force Majeure, such action or failure is not a breach of this
Agreement and the Bank is not liable to anyone for Losses
arising in connection with such action or failure.

8.	Indemnification
(a)	 Indemnitor’s Instructions, Default or Breach

Subject to Section 8(e), Borrower or Lender (in each case, the
‘Indemnitor’) will promptly upon demand by the Bank release,
defend, indemnify and hold harmless each Indemnified Party
for and against Losses or Claims suffered by that Indemnified
Party arising in connection with:
(i)	 the Bank’s execution of instructions based on that
Indemnitor’s notices;
(ii)	 the Bank’s failure or delay, in whole or in part, to take
any action to be taken under this Agreement or otherwise
to fulfil any of its obligations under this Agreement, to
the extent that such failure or delay arises in connection
with the negligence or wilful misconduct of that
Indemnitor or any Related Party of that Indemnitor; or
(iii)	 any breach by that Indemnitor or any Related Party of
that Indemnitor of any provision of this Agreement or
any law, decree, regulation or order of any government
or governmental body (including any court or tribunal),
except, subject to Section 8(c)(i), Losses or Claims arising out
of the negligence or wilful misconduct of the Bank.

(ii)	 the performance of obligations under Belgian or other
applicable law in connection with this Agreement or the
Terms and Conditions,

(i)	 The exception to Section 8(a) does not apply in respect
of:
(A)	 Losses or Claims suffered by the Indemnified Party
arising as a result of any breach as referred to in
Section 8(a)(iii); or
(B)	 Losses caused or Claims made or brought by any
Related Party of the Indemnitor.
(ii)	 The exception to Section 8(b) does not, in relation to
Borrower or (as the case may be) Lender, apply in
respect of Losses caused or Claims made or brought by
any Related Party, respectively, of Borrower or Lender.
(d)	 Burden of Proof

The party from whom the Bank is seeking an indemnity under
Section 8(a) or Section 8(b) bears the burden of proving:
(i)	 the negligence or wilful misconduct of the Bank for the
purposes of the exception to Section 8(a) or Section 8(b),
respectively; or
(ii)	 the application, if any, of Section 8(e).
(e)	Limitations

The party from whom the Bank is seeking an indemnity under
Section 8(a) or Section 8(b) is not liable in respect of:
(i)	 Losses caused or Claims made or brought by:
(A)	 any third party (other than any Related Party of
the party from whom the Bank is seeking such an
indemnity); or
(B)	 the other party to this Agreement or any Related
Party of that other party; or

SLSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP90009

6

Exhibit P-9

(ii)	 Losses caused by an event or circumstance constituting
Force Majeure and which is beyond the reasonable
control of the party from whom the Bank is seeking such
an indemnity.

9.	 Effect of Certain Events and Disputes
(a)	 Withdrawal of Authorisation, Notice of Default under the
Securities Lending Agreement or Insolvency

The Bank will, to the extent permitted by applicable law,
cease entering any instructions into the Euroclear System
pursuant to this Agreement as soon as reasonably practicable
after the receipt by the Bank of:
(i)	 any written notice of a withdrawal by Borrower or
Lender of its authorisation(s) under Section 5(a)
(Authority of the Bank to Enter Instructions into the
Euroclear System);
(ii)	 any written notice of default with respect to Borrower
or Lender or one or more of their Clients, if applicable,
under the Securities Lending Agreement and sent
by Borrower or Lender to the Bank (unless and until
Borrower or Lender, as the case may be, withdraws such
notice of default by notice to the Bank); or
(iii)	 any written notice from Borrower or Lender that it
has filed for bankruptcy or declared that it is insolvent
or bankrupt or that it has become the subject of any
involuntary proceeding in respect of its insolvency or
bankruptcy,
provided that, in each case, the Bank will enter instructions
in accordance with (x) subsequent matching notices from
Borrower and Lender to the Bank or (y) a final order (whether
or not subject to appeal) of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(b)	 Continuing Disputes

In the event of any other (x) dispute between or conflicting
claims, demands, notices or instructions by Borrower, Lender,
a Client and/or any other person or (y) conflicting notices
by Borrower or Lender, with respect to any cash credited to
any Lender’s Account or Lender’s Collateral Account or to
Borrower’s Account, any Securities, Borrower’s Account or
any Lender’s Collateral Account or Lender’s Account (other
than withdrawals of authorisation, notices of default or filings
for or declarations of insolvency or bankruptcy notified to the
Bank pursuant to Section 9(a) the Bank may decline to comply
with any and all claims, demands, notices or instructions
or to take any action hereunder with respect to the cash,
the Securities, Borrower’s Account or Lender’s Collateral
Account or Lender’s Account as long as that dispute or
conflict is continuing. The Bank will not be liable for any
Losses arising out of such failure to act or to comply with
such claims, demands, notices or instructions.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The dispute or conflict will be deemed to continue and the
Bank will be entitled to refuse to act or comply until either:
(i)	 the conflicting or adverse claims or demands have been
determined in a court of competent jurisdiction or settled
by agreement among the conflicting parties and/or such a
court; or
(ii)	 the Bank has received security or an indemnity
satisfactory to it sufficient to hold it harmless from and
against any and all Losses which it may incur by reason
of taking any action directly or indirectly in connection
with this Agreement.
The Bank may assume that no disputes or conflicting claims
or notices exist unless it has received a copy of a written
notice thereof sent by Borrower to Lender or by Lender to
Borrower.

10.	Termination
(a)	 Termination on Notice

Except as provided in Section 18(e) (Survival), this Agreement
may be terminated by any party hereto on 30 Business Days’
written notice to the other parties. In spite of any such notice
of termination, this Agreement will remain applicable to any
Transactions then outstanding.
(b)	 Immediate Termination

The Bank may terminate this Agreement immediately with
respect to all outstanding Transactions and all proposed
transactions in the event that:
(i)	 any representation made by Borrower or Lender in this
Agreement will have been incorrect or untrue in any
material respect when made or repeated or deemed to
have been made or repeated;
(ii)	 Borrower or Lender ceases to be a Participant in the
Euroclear System; or
(iii)	 the Securities Lending Agreement or the Pledged
Account Agreement (if applicable) is terminated.

SLSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP90010

7

Exhibit P-9

(c)	 Termination on Revocation of Representative’s Authority

If a Representative’s authority to take action hereunder for the
benefit of a Client is revoked by such Client, such Representative may, by giving written notice (which notice shall be
conclusive evidence of such revocation for the purposes of this
Agreement) to the Bank specifying the relevant outstanding
Transactions, and the date at which such revocation came or
will come into effect, terminate this Agreement with respect to
such outstanding Transactions between Borrower and Lender,
and all such proposed transactions between Borrower and
Lender, in each case, as have been, or are proposed to be,
entered into for the benefit of such Client.
In addition, if the Bank receives written notice from a
Representative or its Client that such Representative’s
authority as aforesaid has been revoked by such Client and
specifying the relevant outstanding Transactions and the
date at which such revocation came or will come into effect
(which notice shall be conclusive evidence of such revocation
for the purposes of this Agreement), the Bank may, in its
discretion, by giving notice to Borrower and Lender either:
(i)	 terminate this Agreement with respect to all outstanding
Transactions and all proposed transactions; or
(ii)	 terminate this Agreement with respect to such outstanding
Transactions and all such proposed transactions, in each
case, as have been, or are proposed to be, entered into for
the benefit of such Client.
Termination of this Agreement pursuant to this Section 10(c)
will take place either immediately, if according to the relevant
notice the revocation of the Representative’s authority already
came into effect, or as from the date at which the relevant
notice states that such revocation will come into effect.
(d)	 Delivery after Termination

Upon the effectiveness of any termination of this Agreement
as aforesaid, or as soon thereafter as is reasonably practicable,
the Bank will, unless otherwise directed by Borrower and
Lender and subject to Section 9 (Effect of Certain Events and
Disputes) of this Agreement and subject to Section 14(d) of
the Terms and Conditions, cause to be delivered to Lender
any amounts of Collateral Cash and Collateral Securities
then credited to any Lender’s Collateral Account or Lender’s
Account, when applicable, and to Borrower any amounts of
cash and securities then credited to Borrower’s Account.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

11.	Confidentiality
The Bank represents to each of Borrower and Lender that
information which reveals or relates to, or which would
permit the determination of the Euroclear securities positions
of, or Transactions by, Borrower and/or its Client and Lender
and/or any of its Clients, respectively (including any future
or planned securities positions or transactions), or the type
and amount of any Collateral Securities, will only be used by
the Bank in connection with the operation of the Euroclear
System or the provision of banking services to Lender or
Borrower, as the case may be.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Bank may, where it is
bound by the law of any territory or country or pursuant to any
requirement of any regulatory body, disclose any information
or produce any document in its possession or control.
If the Bank discloses information concerning Borrower and/or
its Client (if applicable) or Lender and/or any of its Clients (if
applicable) to any such regulatory body, the Bank will inform
Borrower or Lender, as appropriate, unless the Bank may not
do so or has been requested not to do so by such regulatory
authority.

12.	Amendments
(a)	 SLSA Terms and Conditions

These SLSA Terms and Conditions may only be amended or
modified by a written agreement executed by the parties and
the Annexes I and II may be amended or modified only by a
written agreement, except as set forth in paragraphs (b), (c)
and (d) below. Unconditional SWIFT Elections may only be
amended or modified by:
(i)	 establishing a new set of Unconditional SWIFT
Elections, in place of the then current Unconditional
SWIFT Elections, by repeating the procedure set out in
Section 2(d) and (e); or
(ii)	 complying with the procedures for unilateral amendment
set out in paragraph (b) below.
An amendment under this Section 12(a) is effective when the
Bank notifies Borrower and Lender that it is effective.

SLSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP90011

8

Exhibit P-9

(b)	 Unilateral Amendment

Lender may, upon notice to and with the consent of the Bank,
amend Annexes I and II to include in Eligible Securities one or
more types of security, identified by ISIN or Common Code,
without the agreement of Borrower.
Borrower may, upon notice to and with the consent of the Bank,
amend Annexes I and II to exclude from Eligible Securities,
for a stated period or until a subsequent notice of Borrower is
given (with the consent of the Bank) to include such Eligible
Securities again, one or more types of security, identified by
ISIN or Common Code, without the agreement of Lender.
The Bank may, upon notice to Borrower and Lender, amend
Annexes I and II to exclude any security or securities from
Eligible Securities or any currency or currencies from Eligible
Cash without the agreement of Borrower or Lender.
An amendment under this Section 12(b) must be in writing,
which may include a facsimile or SWIFT message, and will be
effective when the Bank notifies Borrower and Lender that it is
effective.
(c)	 Unilateral Amendment to Discontinue AutoSelect

Lender may at any time, by giving notice to the Bank before
the deadline indicated in the Timetable for Allocation Mode
Management (as defined in the SLSA Operating Procedures),
amend this Agreement to discontinue the use of AutoSelect,
without the agreement of Borrower or the Bank, for one or
more Eligibility Sets or for all Eligibility Sets, effective as of
the Business Day indicated in the Timetable.
(d)	 SLSA Operating Procedures

The Bank may amend the SLSA Operating Procedures at any
time by notice to Borrower and Lender. Borrower and Lender
will be deemed to have agreed to and accepted any such
amendment (i) effective immediately, if the amendment
does not adversely affect Borrower or Lender or (ii) effective
30 Business Days after the Bank sends it, for any other
amendment.
(e)	 No Waivers

No waiver, or acceptance of performance other than as provided
in this Agreement, on the part of any party will be a waiver,
or acceptance of such performance, in the future. The Bank’s
acceptance, in its discretion, of any notice or notices from
Borrower or Lender received after the relevant deadline set
out in the Timetable does not oblige it to accept any such
notice so received in the future.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

13.	 Agreement of the Parties
If any provision of this Agreement is inconsistent or in
conflict with any provision of the Securities Lending
Agreement (including any provisions to the effect that such
Securities Lending Agreement will prevail over any other
agreement), this Agreement will prevail. Except as expressly
provided in this Agreement, no provision of this Agreement
shall modify or abrogate any right or obligation under the
Pledged Account Agreement (if applicable).

14.	 Applicable Law; Jurisdiction
This Agreement and any dispute or claim arising out of
or in connection with it or its subject matter or formation
(including non-contractual disputes or claims) will be
governed by and construed in accordance with English law.
Each of Borrower and Lender irrevocably agrees for the
exclusive benefit of the Bank that the Courts of England are
to have jurisdiction to settle any disputes or claims which may
arise out of or in connection with this Agreement or its subject
matter or formation (including non-contractual disputes or
claims) and that, accordingly, any suit, action or proceeding
arising out of or in connection with this Agreement or its
subject matter or formation (including non-contractual disputes
or claims) may be brought in such Courts. Nothing contained
in this Section 14 will limit the right of the Bank to take any
such suit, action or proceeding against each of Borrower and
Lender or both in any other court of competent jurisdiction
nor will the taking of such suit, action or proceeding in one or
more jurisdictions preclude the taking of any such suit, action
or proceeding in any other jurisdiction by the Bank whether
concurrently or not, to the extent permitted by the law of such
other jurisdiction.
The Borrower and Lender waive (and agree not to raise)
any objection, on the ground of forum non conveniens or
any other ground, to the taking of proceedings by the Bank in
any court in accordance with this Section 14. The Borrower
and Lender also agree that a judgment against one or both
of them in the Bank’s favour in proceedings brought in
any jurisdiction in accordance with this Section 14 shall be
conclusive and binding upon them and may be enforced in
any other jurisdiction.

SLSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP90012

9

Exhibit P-9

15.	 Waiver of Immunity
Each of Borrower and Lender waives, to the fullest extent
permitted by applicable law, all immunity (on the basis of
sovereignty or otherwise) from jurisdiction, attachment (both
before and after judgment) and execution to which it might
otherwise be entitled in any suit, action or proceeding in the
Courts of England or of any other country or jurisdiction
relating in any way to this Agreement and agrees that it will
not raise, claim or cause to be pleaded any such immunity at
or in respect of any such suit, action or proceeding.

16.	Domicile
Each of Borrower and Lender elects domicile in Belgium at
the Bank for the purpose of any suit, action or proceeding in
Belgium arising out of or relating to this Agreement and will
appoint promptly on request from the Bank authorised agents
in London for the purpose of receiving service of process in
any such suit, action or proceeding in England.

17.	 Service of Process
Each of Borrower and Lender consents to the service of any
and all process, notices or other documents which may be
served in any such suit, action or proceeding either:
(i)	 by mailing a copy thereof to its address referred to in
Section 18(a) (Notices) by registered or certified mail;
(ii)	 by serving a copy thereof at its domicile in Belgium
or upon any agent for service appointed as provided in
Section 16 (Domicile) (whether or not the election of
domicile or the appointment of such agent for service
of process will for any reason prove to be ineffective
or such agent will fail to accept or acknowledge such
service) and mailing a copy thereof to its address referred
to in Section 18(a) (Notices) by registered or certified
mail; or
(iii)	 in any other manner permitted by applicable law.
Each of Borrower and Lender waives all claims of error by
reason of any service in accordance with this Section 17 and
agrees that such service (x) will be deemed in every respect
effective service of process upon it and (y) will be taken and
held to be valid personal service upon and personal delivery
to it.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

18.	Miscellaneous
(a)	Notices

Unless otherwise specified herein, notices required by this
Agreement must be in writing (which will include, without
limitation, facsimile, EUCLID, EasyWay or SWIFT).
Borrower and Lender agree that any notices given under
this Agreement will be sent to the Bank to the attention of
‘Collateral Management Administration’ at the address set
forth in Exhibit 1 or to the attention of such other contact
at such other address as the Bank may from time to time
designate to Borrower and Lender in writing. The Bank is
not required to comply with and is not deemed to have any
notice or knowledge of any notice sent by any Client. Any
notice to Borrower or Lender authorised or required by this
Agreement will be addressed to the persons indicated at
the addresses set forth in Exhibit 1 or to such other person
or persons as the receiving party may from time to time
designate to the other parties in writing.
Chapter 3 (Transaction Processing) of the SLSA Operating
Procedures contains the Timetable, setting out the deadlines
by which the various notices must be received by the Bank
for processing. The Bank may, in its sole discretion, attempt
to process notices received or validated after the deadlines
set forth in the Timetable. Notices will be effective from the
time they are actually received by the intended recipient by
telephone, facsimile, EUCLID, EasyWay or SWIFTor any
other means designated by the Bank.
In any situation in which this Agreement requires written
notice, the Bank may but is not required to act on oral notice
reasonably believed by it to be notice of a person acting
on behalf of Borrower or Lender or, for the purposes of
Section 10(c) (Termination on revocation of Representative’s
Authority), a Client or a person purporting to be a Client, as
the case may be, or on data received over any electronic system
whereby the receiver is able to verify by code or otherwise
with reasonable certainty the identity of the sender of such
communication. Borrower and Lender shall confirm in writing
any oral or electronic data notice. Failure to confirm in writing
or any conflict between subsequent written notices and oral or
data notices will not affect the authority of any acts taken or
omitted by the Bank pursuant to oral or electronic data notices.
The Bank reserves the right to record telephone conversations
with Borrower or Lender and to refer to such recordings in the
event of any dispute. Nothing in this paragraph permits oral
amendments to this Agreement.

SLSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP90013

10

Exhibit P-9

(b)	 Binding Agreement; Assignment and Novation

The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and
inure to the benefit of the Bank, Borrower and Lender and
their respective successors and assigns (including any trustee,
conservators or other officers of the court in any bankruptcy
or insolvency proceeding), subject to the next paragraph.
The rights and obligation of each party under this Agreement
may not be assigned or novated without the written consent
of the other parties and any assignment or novation without
such consent will be null and void.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

19.	Glossary
References in this Agreement to the singular include the
plural, and vice versa.
The following words, as used in this Agreement, have the
following meanings:
‘Agreement’ has the meaning set forth in the first sentence of

this Agreement.

(c)	Severability

‘AutoSelect’ means an electronic processing module owned

(d)	Representatives

‘AutoSelect Methodology’ means the method by which
the AutoSelect processing module selects securities to be
transferred between Borrower’s Account and counterparty
accounts, as described in Chapter 6 (AutoSelect Processing
Methodology) of the SLSA Operating Procedures.

Each provision and agreement in this Agreement will be
separate from any other provision or agreement in this
Agreement and will be enforceable, notwithstanding the
unenforceability of any other provision or agreement.
Despite the fact that any Representative is acting for the
benefit of any Client in connection with this Agreement:
(i)	 that Representative will have and be entitled to assert
any claim, counterclaim or defence in connection with
this Agreement or the Bank’s performance of services
under this Agreement only to the extent that it has or is
entitled to assert that claim, counterclaim or defence in
its capacity as a principal party to this Agreement;
(ii)	 that Representative shall be liable for the performance of
all its obligations and for all its indemnities given under
this Agreement, including but not limited to the indemnity
contained in Section 8 (Indemnification), as a principal
party to this Agreement;
(iii)	 no Client is a party to this Agreement and no Client
will have any rights under or in connection with this
Agreement against the Bank; and
(iv)	 the Bank will have obligations under or in connection
with this Agreement only to Borrower and Lender and
will not be liable to any Client under or in connection
with this Agreement in any manner whatsoever
(including, without limitation, in contract or in tort).
(e)	Survival

All releases, limitations of liability and indemnifications
provided in this Agreement will survive the termination of
this Agreement.
(f)	

Headings and References

The headings and captions in this Agreement are for reference
only and will not affect the construction or interpretation of
any of its provisions.

by the Bank designed to facilitate the selection of securities
for Triparty Agreements.

‘AutoSelect Processing’ means an option in Annexes I and II

which determines whether or not Borrower and Lender may
use AutoSelect processing of Transactions in an Eligibility
Set under this Agreement.

‘AutoSelect Transaction’ means a Transaction that is
processed by the Bank using AutoSelect.
‘Bank’ means Euroclear Bank and its successors and assigns,
as securities lending service agent under this Agreement.
‘Borrower’ has the meaning set forth in the first sentence of
this Agreement.
‘Borrower’s Account’ means a Securities Clearance Account
in the Euroclear System in the name of Borrower and the
Cash Account in the Euroclear System in the name of
Borrower associated therewith, the number of which is
indicated in the Annexes, which will be used for Securities
and Cash, respectively, with respect to Transactions and
which in each case will be designated a ‘client account’ if
Borrower has entered into this Agreement for the benefit of
one Client.
‘Business Day’ means a day when the operation of the
Euroclear System takes place.
‘Cash’ means Eligible Cash or Collateral Cash.
‘Claims’ means any claim, demand, action, investigation or

administrative proceeding made or brought by an Indemnitor
or any Related Party of that Indemnitor in connection with
this Agreement.

SLSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP90014

11

Exhibit P-9

‘Client’ means each person other than Borrower or Lender:

•	 who has entered into, or who will enter into, the Securities
Lending Agreement with Borrower or Lender; or
•	 for whose benefit Borrower or its Client (if applicable)
or Lender or its Client (if applicable) has entered into, or
will enter into, the Securities Lending Agreement,

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

‘Equivalent Securities’ has the meaning set out in the SLSA

Operating Procedures.

‘Euroclear-eligible securities’ means, at any time, any of the

securities accepted at that time for deposit into the Euroclear
System in accordance with the Operating Procedures.

and for whose benefit Borrower or Lender has entered into
the Pledged Account Agreement (if applicable) and has
entered into, or will enter into, this Agreement.

‘Euroclear Operator’ means Euroclear Bank, and its
successors and assigns, acting in the capacity of operator of
the Euroclear System.

‘Collateral Cash’ has the meaning set out in the SLSA
Operating Procedures.

‘Euroclear System’ means the clearance system for

‘Collateral Securities’ has the meaning set out in the SLSA

Operating Procedures.

‘Eligibility Set’ means the Eligible Securities and Eligible

Cash identified in each set of Annexes I and II or by way
of the Unconditional SWIFT Elections, as such Annexes or
Unconditional SWIFT Elections may be amended from time
to time, and the options, amounts and percentages selected
in the corresponding set of Annexes I and II or by way of
the Unconditional SWIFT Elections, as such Annexes or
Unconditional SWIFT Elections may be amended from time
to time.

‘Eligible Cash’ means on any date:

•	 any Settlement Currency which Borrower and Lender
have designated as the securities denomination currency
of an Eligible Security in the applicable Eligibility Set in
Annexes I and II or by way of the Unconditional SWIFT
Elections, as such Annexes or Unconditional SWIFT
Elections may be amended from time to time; and
•	 if any such currency has been replaced by the euro, the
euro; and
•	 with respect to a Transaction, the Transaction Currency
of that Transaction.
‘Eligible Securities’ means on any date any of the Euroclear-

eligible securities of a type which Borrower and Lender have
agreed, with the consent of the Bank, will be eligible as of
such date to become Collateral securities for a Transaction
by their inclusion in the applicable set in Annexes I and II
or by way of the Unconditional SWIFT Elections, as such
Annexes or Unconditional SWIFT Elections may be amended
from time to time, and as may be limited by certain options
in the corresponding set of Annexes I and II or by way of
the Unconditional SWIFT Elections, as such Annexes or
Unconditional SWIFT Elections may be amended from time
to time.

internationally traded securities operated under contract by the
Euroclear Operator.

‘Euroclear Tariff’ means the Euroclear Tariff folder (which

includes a general fees brochure and specific tariff sheets)
distributed to all Participants, as may be amended from time
to time.

‘Force Majeure’ means any event or circumstance beyond the
reasonable control of the Bank, including, without limitation,
war, insurrection, riot, civil commotion, act of God, accident,
fire, water damage, explosion, mechanical breakdown,
computer or systems failure or other equipment failure, failure
or malfunctioning of any communications media for whatever
reason (whether or not such media are made available to
Borrower or Lender by the Bank), interruption (partial or
total) of power supply or other utility or service, strike or
other labour stoppage (partial or total) and any law, decree,
regulation or order of any government or governmental body
(including any court or tribunal).
‘Indemnified Party’ means each of the Bank, its officers,

directors and employees.

‘Indemnitor’ means Borrower, or Lender, as the case may be.
‘Internet Report’ means the internet report made available at
the website of the Euroclear System by the Bank as described
in Chapter 5 (Reporting by the Bank) of the SLSA Operating
Procedures to recipients subscribing for the service in a
separate subscription agreement.
‘Lender’ has the meaning set forth in the first sentence of this

Agreement.

SLSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP90015

12

Exhibit P-9

‘Lender’s Account’ means the Securities Clearance Account

(or, in the case of Multiple Lender Accounts, one of such
Securities Clearance Accounts) in the Euroclear System in
the name of Lender and the Cash Account in the Euroclear
System in the name of Lender associated therewith, the
number of which is indicated in the Annexes I and II, which
will be used only for Securities and Cash, respectively, with
respect to Transactions under this Agreement and which in
each case shall be designated a ‘client account’ if Lender has
entered into this Agreement for the benefit of one or more
Clients.

‘Lender’s Collateral Account’ means a Securities Clearance

Account (or, in the case of Multiple Lender Accounts, one
of such Securities Clearance Accounts) in the Euroclear
System in the name of Lender and the Cash Account in the
Euroclear System in the name of Lender associated therewith,
the number of which is indicated in the Annexes I and II in
each case which shall be designated a collateral account
and shall be used only for Securities and Cash, respectively,
with respect to Transactions and which in each case will be
designated a ‘client account’ if Lender has entered into this
Agreement for the benefit of one or more Clients.

‘Loan’ means, in respect of a Transaction, the loan to which

the Transaction relates in this Agreement (such loan being of
cash only if it is to be settled in the Euroclear System).
‘Losses’ means, in relation to any person, any losses,
liabilities, obligations, fines, penalties, damages, taxes (other
than taxes on the overall income of such person), costs,
expenses (to the extent reasonable and other than ordinary
administrative expenses) or fees (including reasonable
counsel’s fees and accountant’s fees) of any kind or nature
whatsoever at any time.
‘Manual Processing’ means the manual processing of
Transactions in an Eligibility Set under this Agreement.
‘Manual Transaction’ means a Transaction that is not an

AutoSelect Transaction.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

‘Operating Procedures’ means The Operating Procedures of
the Euroclear System established in accordance with Section
3 of the Terms and Conditions, as such Operating Procedures
may be amended from time to time.
‘Pledged Account Agreement’ means the Acceptance
Agreement to the Single Pledgor Pledged Account Terms and
Conditions.

‘Related Party’ in respect of an Indemnitor means any
agent (including employees of such agent), employee, client
(including Clients) or any other person for whose benefit
or on whose behalf that Indemnitor acts or who acts for the
benefit of or on behalf of that Indemnitor.
‘Representative’ means either or each of Borrower and Lender

if it has entered into, or will enter into, this Agreement for the
benefit of one or more Clients.

‘Securities’ means Eligible Securities, Collateral Securities,
Loaned Securities or securities which are proposed to become
Loaned Securities.
‘Security Agreement’ means one or more agreement(s)

between Borrower and Lender and/or one or more of their
respective Clients under which Borrower or one or more of its
Client (if applicable) provides security (whether by conferring
a security interest over property or by transferring title to
property outright) for the loan made to it under the Securities
Lending Agreement from time to time, to Lender or one or
more of its Clients (if applicable).

‘Securities Lending Agreement’ means one or more
agreement(s) between Borrower and Lender and/or one or
more of their respective Clients under which Borrower or one
or more of its Client(s) (if applicable) may borrow securities
from Lender or one or more of its Clients (if applicable) and
includes any related Security Agreement.
‘Settlement Currency’ at any time means any of the currencies

accepted at that time in the Euroclear System as a Settlement
Currency in accordance with the Operating Procedures.

‘Multiple Lender Accounts’ means an option in Annexes I and

‘SLSA Operating Procedures’ means the Securities Lending
Service Agreement Operating Procedures, as amended from
time to time, which, together with the SLSA Terms and
Conditions, form one contractual agreement.

‘Net Paying Security’ means any security with respect to
which any interest, dividend or other distribution payable by
the issuer to either Borrower or Lender is required by law to
be paid subject to withholding or deduction for or on account
of taxes or duties of any nature imposed, levied, collected,
withheld or assessed by any authority having power to tax.

‘SLSA Terms and Conditions’ means these Securities Lending
Service Agreement Terms and Conditions, which, together
with the SLSA Operating Procedures, form one contractual
agreement.

II which determines whether or not Lender may open more
than one Lender’s Collateral Account or use more than one
Lender’s Account.

‘Terms and Conditions’ means the Terms and Conditions
Governing Use of Euroclear, as amended from time to time.

SLSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP90016

13

Exhibit P-9

‘Timetable’ means the table of deadlines set forth in Chapter 3
(Transaction Processing) of the SLSA Operating Procedures,
as amended from time to time.
‘Transaction’ means any secured loan governed by the
Securities Lending Agreement, the Pledged Account
Agreement (if applicable) and this Agreement.
‘Transaction Currency’ means, with respect to a Transaction,

the Settlement Currency specified in the initiation notice with
respect to such Transaction.

‘Triparty Agreement’ means an agreement among two
Participants and the Bank under which the Bank serves as
service agent.
‘Unconditional SWIFT Elections’ has the meaning set forth in

section 2(e) of this Agreement.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

20.	Effectiveness
(A)	 This Agreement will become binding upon Borrower,
Lender and the Bank if:
(i)	 the Bank has executed this Agreement, previously
signed by Borrower and Lender; and
(ii)	 the Bank has received from Lender the duly
authorised and executed documentation relating to
the opening of Lender’s Collateral Account (or, in
the case of Multiple Lender Accounts, the opening
of all such accounts); and
(iii)	 the Bank has notified Borrower and Lender that the
Agreement is effective.
(B)	 Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (A) above,
this Agreement will also become binding Borrower,
Lender and the Bank if:
(i)	 the Borrower and the Bank have executed the Form
of Agreement RG 810 specifying (a) the Securities
Lending Service Agreement under ‘Specific
services’ or (b) all collateral management service
agreements under ‘All services’ or such other form
and in such manner as may be specified by the
Bank; and
(ii)	 the Lender and the Bank have executed the Form
of Agreement RG 810 specifying (a) the Securities
Lending Service Agreement under ‘Specific
services’ or (b) all collateral management service
agreements under ‘All services’ or such other form
and in such manner as may be specified by the
Bank; and
(iii)	 either Borrower or Lender have duly executed
Annexes I and II and the provisions of Sections 2(d),
(e) and (f) of this Agreement are complied with in
relation to such Annexes; and
(iv)	 the Bank has received from Lender the duly
authorised and executed documentation relating
to the opening of the Lender’s Collateral Account
(or, in the case of Multiple Lender Accounts, the
opening of all such accounts); and
(v)	 the Bank has notified Borrower and Lender that the
Agreement is effective.

21.	Counterparts
This Agreement may be executed in any number of
counterparts, each of which will be deemed to be an original,
and all of which together will be one agreement.

SLSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP90017

14

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

© 2015 Euroclear Bank SA/NV, 1 Boulevard du Roi Albert II, 1210 Brussels, Belgium – Tel: +32 (0)2 326 1211 –
RPM Brussels number 0429 875 591 – Euroclear is the marketing name for the Euroclear System, Euroclear plc,
Euroclear SA/NV and their affiliates.
Euroclear is a carbon neutral company – PAS2060 certified in 2015

LG032

Exhibit P-9

www.euroclear.com

EXP90018

Exhibit P-11

August 2015

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Loan Service Agreement
Terms and Conditions

Post-trade made easy

EXP110001

Exhibit P-11

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Loan Service Agreement
Terms and Conditions

(to be read in conjunction with the LSA Operating Procedures)

Table of Contents
1.	 Appointment and Acceptance of the Bank .................................................................. 1
2.	Selections ............................................................................................................ 1

(a)	 Eligible Securities and Eligible Cash .......................................................................
(b)	 Eligibility Set Profiles .........................................................................................
(c)	Annexes . . ........................................................................................................
(d)	 Conditional SWIFT Elections . . ..............................................................................
(e)	 Unconditional SWIFT Elections . . ...........................................................................
(f)	 Parties’ obligations in relation to SWIFT Elections ......................................................

1
1
1
2
2
2

3.	 Euroclear System .................................................................................................. 2
4.	Representations .................................................................................................... 2

(a)	 Representations of Borrower and Lender ..................................................................
(b)	 Representations of Borrower .................................................................................
(c)	 Representations of Lender ....................................................................................
(d)	 Representations of the Bank . . ................................................................................

2
3
3
3

5.	Transactions ........................................................................................................ 3

(a)	 Authority of the Bank to Enter Instructions into the Euroclear System . . .............................
(b)	 Authority of the Bank to Use AutoSelect ..................................................................
(c)	 Authority of Borrower to Use AutoSelect and of Lender to Discontinue AutoSelect ..............
(d)	 AutoSelect Acknowledgements . . ............................................................................
(e)	 Access of Borrower to Lender’s Reports .. .................................................................
(f)	 Authority for Internet Reporting . . ...........................................................................

3
4
4
4
4
4

6.	 Bank Fees . . ........................................................................................................... 4
7.	 Duties and Liabilities of the Bank ............................................................................... 5

(a)	General . . .........................................................................................................
(b)	 Borrower’s and Lender’s Responsibilities .................................................................
(c)	 Bank’s Notice and Inquiry . . ..................................................................................
(d)	 Notices to Bank ................................................................................................
(e)	 AutoSelect Allocation .........................................................................................
(f)	 Price Data .......................................................................................................
(g)	 Force Majeure ..................................................................................................

5
5
5
6
6
6
6

LSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP110002

Exhibit P-11

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

8.	Indemnification ..................................................................................................... 6

(a)	 Indemnitor’s Instructions, Default or Breach . . ............................................................
(b)	 Bank’s Performance ...........................................................................................
(c)	 Breach and Related Party Claims .. ..........................................................................
(d)	 Burden of Proof ................................................................................................
(e)	Limitations ......................................................................................................

6
6
7
7
7

9.	 Effect of Certain Events and Disputes ........................................................................ 7

(a)	 Withdrawal of Authorisation, Notice of Default
under the Loan Agreement or the Security Agreement or Insolvency ................................ 7
(b)	 Continuing Disputes ........................................................................................... 7

10. Termination .......................................................................................................... 8

(a)	 Termination on Notice ........................................................................................
(b)	 Immediate Termination .......................................................................................
(c)	 Termination on Revocation of Representative’s Authority .............................................
(d)	 Delivery after termination ....................................................................................

8
8
8
8

11.	Confidentiality . . ..................................................................................................... 8
12.	Amendments ........................................................................................................ 9

(a)	 LSA Terms and Conditions ..................................................................................
(b)	 Unilateral Amendment ........................................................................................
(c)	 Unilateral Amendment to Discontinue AutoSelect .......................................................
(d)	 LSA Operating Procedures ...................................................................................
(e)	 No Waivers .. ....................................................................................................

9
9
9
9
9

13. Agreement of the Parties ......................................................................................... 9
14.	 Applicable Law; Jurisdiction .. .................................................................................. 10
15.	 Waiver of Immunity ............................................................................................... 10
16.	Domicile ............................................................................................................. 10
17.	 Service of Process ................................................................................................ 10
18.	Miscellaneous . . ................................................................................................... 10

(a)	Notices .........................................................................................................
(b)	 Binding Agreement; Assignment and Novation ........................................................
(c)	Severability .. ..................................................................................................
(d)	Representatives ...............................................................................................
(e)	Survival ........................................................................................................
(f)	 Headings and References ...................................................................................

10
11
11
11
11
11

19.	Glossary ............................................................................................................. 11
20.	Effectiveness ....................................................................................................... 15
21.	Counterparts ....................................................................................................... 15

Exhibit 1 – Addresses
Annexes I and II (included in folder)

LSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP110003

Exhibit P-11

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Loan Service Agreement
The triparty loan service agreement (the ‘Agreement’) comprises two parts, the LSA Terms and Conditions and the LSA Operating
Procedures.
All references to ‘the Agreement’ or ‘this Agreement’ are to the LSA Terms and Conditions and the LSA Operating Procedures,
both as amended from time to time, which are to be read and construed as, and which together form, one contractual agreement.

LSA Terms and Conditions
Borrower or its Client (if applicable) and Lender or one
or more of its Clients (if applicable) have entered into a
Loan Agreement which permits Borrower or its Client (if
applicable) to borrow money or a commodity from Lender
or one or more of its Clients (if applicable) from time to
time subject to the provision by the Borrower or its Client (if
applicable) of security for such loan(s) pursuant to a Security
Agreement between the same parties as are party to the Loan
Agreement. If Borrower and/or Lender is a Representative,
it has agreed with each Client to enter into this Agreement for
its benefit.
Borrower and Lender have requested the Bank to perform
certain service functions to support those secured loans.
Therefore, in consideration of the mutual promises included
in this Agreement and intending to be legally bound hereby,
the parties agree to the following terms.
Capitalised words used in these LSA Terms and Conditions
have the meanings assigned to them in Section 19 (Glossary).
Capitalised words used only in the LSA Operating Procedures
have the meanings assigned to them in Chapter 19 (Glossary)
of the LSA Operating Procedures. If any capitalised word
is defined in both these LSA Terms and Conditions and the
LSA Operating Procedures, and the definitions assigned
are inconsistent, the definition in these LSA Terms and
Conditions will prevail.
If capitalised terms are used but not defined, they have the
meaning assigned to them in the Terms and Conditions and
the Operating Procedures. The use of the term ‘type’ with
respect to securities means securities with the same security
code and description.

1.	 Appointment and Acceptance of the Bank
Each of Borrower and Lender appoints the Bank as secured
loan service agent to carry out the duties described in this
Agreement and to take any actions incidental to those duties.
The Bank accepts such appointment and consents to act as
secured loan service agent to carry out only those duties.

2.	Selections
(a)	 Eligible Securities and Eligible Cash

Borrower and Lender, with the consent of the Bank, by
executing Annexes I and II, have selected in Annexes I and II
Eligible Securities and Eligible Cash, in one or more sets, to
be used with respect to Transactions under this Agreement.
(b)	 Eligibility Set Profiles

Borrower and Lender, with the consent of the Bank, by
checking the relevant boxes or filling in the relevant lines
in Annexes I and II and executing Annexes I and II, have
selected certain options, amounts and percentages applicable
to each set of Eligible Securities and Eligible Cash. If no
selection is made with respect to a given option, amount or
percentage, the default selection, as indicated in Annexes I
and II, will apply.
(c)	Annexes

Borrower, Lender and the Bank agree to the selections made
in Annexes I and II (as the same may be amended from
time to time in accordance with Section 12 (Amendments)).
Annexes I and II and any other numbered Annexes to this
Agreement form an integral part of this Agreement.

LSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP110004

1

Exhibit P-11

(d)	 Conditional SWIFT Elections

If only Borrower or Lender executes Annexes I and II, the
provisions of this paragraph (d) and Section 2(e) and (f) shall
apply instead of Section 2(a) to (c).
Borrower or Lender, with the consent of the Bank, having
completed and executed Annexes I and II, sends such Annexes
to the Bank, indicating the name of the Eligibility Set and
set number (the ‘Completed Annexes’). The Bank will upon
receipt of the Completed Annexes, provide this documentation
to the counterparty Borrower or Lender, as indicated by
Borrower or Lender.
If Borrower and Lender want to initiate Transactions on the
basis of the Completed Annexes, Borrower and Lender shall
each send a SWIFT message to the Bank in a form specified
by the Bank which refers to the (i) name of the Eligibility Set,
(ii) set number, and (iii) account numbers of Borrower and
Lender.
The elections made in the Completed Annexes and confirmed
by each of the Borrower and Lender in a SWIFT message are
together the ‘Conditional SWIFT Elections’.
(e)	 Unconditional SWIFT Elections

Conditional SWIFT Elections will only become binding on
the parties (i) if the Bank notifies Borrower and Lender by
SWIFT message that it consents to them and (ii) from the time
specified by the Bank in any such notice.
Conditional SWIFT Elections that have become effective
under this Section 2(e) or Section 12(a), together with
the related consenting SWIFT message sent by the
Bank, constitute the ‘Unconditional SWIFT Elections’.
Unconditional SWIFT Elections, as amended or modified
from time to time, form an integral part of this Agreement.
Borrower, Lender and the Bank agree that the Unconditional
SWIFT Elections may be amended or modified from time to
time in accordance with Section 12 (Amendments).
(f)	

Parties’ obligations in relation to SWIFT Elections

(i)	 The Bank agrees to maintain a record of all Unconditional
SWIFT Elections which have, from time to time, come
into effect under this Agreement and any unilateral
amendments or modifications to such Unconditional
SWIFT Elections made under Section 12(b).
(ii)	 The parties agree not to object to the admission as
evidence in any legal proceedings of any Unconditional
SWIFT Elections and any unilateral amendments or
modifications to such Unconditional SWIFT Elections
made under Section 12(b).

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

3.	 Euroclear System
Each of Borrower and Lender acknowledges that securities
and cash credited to Borrower’s Account or any Lender’s
Account are held in the Euroclear System pursuant to the
Terms and Conditions and the Operating Procedures.

4.	Representations
(a)	 Representations of Borrower and Lender

Borrower and Lender each represents to the Bank and to each
other, as of the date of this Agreement and as of each date on
which a Transaction is outstanding, that:
(i)	 it is duly organised and existing under the laws of
the jurisdiction of its organisation with full power and
authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to
perform all the duties and obligations to be performed
by it under this Agreement;
(ii)	 the execution, delivery and performance by it of this
Agreement have been duly authorised, in accordance
with all requisite corporate action, and this Agreement
is a legal, valid and binding obligation of it enforceable
in accordance with its terms, except as such terms may
be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws, or
by equitable principles relating to or limiting creditors’
rights generally;
(iii)	 the execution, delivery and performance by it of this
Agreement have been and will be duly authorised by all
necessary governmental and other approvals, including
exchange control approvals;
(iv)	 the execution, delivery, and performance by it of this
Agreement and the transactions contemplated under this
Agreement do not and will not violate or constitute a
default under any agreement by which it is bound, or its
constitutional documents, or any statute, regulation, rule,
order or judgment applicable to it (including any statute,
regulation, rule, order or judgment relating to taxes);
(v)	 it has (and if it is a Representative, it has been granted
by each Client for whose benefit it has entered into the
Loan Agreement and the Security Agreement and, if any
Client is a party to the Loan Agreement and the Security
Agreement as of such date, such Client has) the power
and authority to enter into the Loan Agreement and the
Security Agreement and the secured loans made pursuant
thereto;

LSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP110005

2

Exhibit P-11

(vi)	 it has the power and authority to deliver and transfer the
securities and cash delivered or transferred and to take
any other action hereunder and, if it is a Representative,
each Client has authorised it to execute and deliver this
Agreement and to take all such actions hereunder for
such Client’s benefit; and
(vii)in the case of Borrower, if it is a Representative and has
selected the AutoSelect Processing option in one or more
sets of Annexes I and II or by way of the Unconditional
SWIFT Elections, either:
(A)	 (x) it is not acting for the benefit of more than one
Client under this Agreement and (y) it is not acting
through the Borrower’s Account for the benefit of
any other client under another Triparty Agreement;
or
(B)	 it has received from each such Client or client a
specific authorisation to engage in transactions under
Triparty Agreements for the benefit of other clients
out of the same Borrower’s Account.
(b)	 Representations of Borrower

Borrower represents to the Bank, as of the date of this
Agreement and as of each date on which a Transaction is
outstanding, with respect to each outstanding Transaction, that
the Beneficial Tax Owner (as defined below) is not resident
for tax purposes in Belgium.
For the purposes of this Section 4(b), a ‘Beneficial Tax
Owner’ will mean the person as defined under the relevant tax
rules ultimately entitled to receive the Intended Transaction
Amount on the Initiation Date and for whose benefit the
Closing Amount is required to be remitted to Lender on
the Closing Date. Such term will not include any agent or
intermediary transacting with the Bank for the benefit of any
other party.
(c)	 Representations of Lender

Lender represents to the Bank, as of the date of this
Agreement and as of each date on which a Transaction is
outstanding, that the Beneficial Owner (as defined below) is
resident for tax purposes in a country that has entered into a
double taxation agreement with Belgium.
For the purposes of this Section 4(c), a ‘Beneficial Owner’
will mean the person as defined under the Belgian tax rules
ultimately entitled to receive the Price Differential. Such
term will not include any agent or intermediary transacting
with the Bank for the benefit of any other party.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(d)	 Representations of the Bank

The Bank represents to each of Borrower and Lender, as of
the date of this Agreement and as of each date on which a
Transaction is outstanding, that:
(i)	 it is duly organised and existing under the laws of
Belgium with full power and authority to execute and
deliver this Agreement and to perform all the duties and
obligations to be performed by it under this Agreement;
(ii)	 the execution, delivery and performance by it of this
Agreement have been duly authorised, in accordance
with all required corporate action, and this Agreement
is a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Bank
enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as
such terms may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency
or similar laws, or by equitable principles relating to or
limiting creditors’ rights generally; and
(iii)	 the execution, delivery, and performance of this
Agreement will not violate or constitute a default under
any agreement by which it is bound, or its constitutional
documents, or any Belgian statute, regulation, rule, order
or judgment applicable to it.

5.	Transactions
(a)	 Authority of the Bank to Enter Instructions into the
Euroclear System

Each of Borrower and Lender authorises the Bank to enter or
cancel instructions on its behalf into the Euroclear System and
to take all other actions in connection with such instructions
in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Without
limiting the foregoing, Lender authorises the Bank to accept,
subject to the satisfaction of any relevant conditions, the
written notices of Borrower identifying Securities and/or Cash
to be transferred pursuant to the LSA Operating Procedures
until receipt by the Bank of written notice of withdrawal of
any such authorisation.
(b)	 Authority of the Bank to Use AutoSelect

If Borrower and Lender have selected the AutoSelect Processing
option in one or more sets of Annexes I and II or by way
of the Unconditional SWIFT Elections, and Lender has not
discontinued AutoSelect pursuant to Section 12(c) (Unilateral
Amendment to Discontinue AutoSelect), each of Borrower and
Lender authorises the Bank to select Securities on its behalf
and deliver them to the other in accordance with the AutoSelect
Methodology, as described in Chapter 6 (AutoSelect Processing
Methodology) of the LSA Operating Procedures, with respect
to AutoSelect Transactions assigned to the corresponding
Eligibility Set(s).

LSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP110006

3

Exhibit P-11

(c)	 Authority of Borrower to Use AutoSelect and of Lender to
Discontinue AutoSelect

‘If Borrower and Lender have selected the AutoSelect
Processing option in one or more sets of Annexes I and II or by
way of the Unconditional SWIFT Elections, and Lender has not
discontinued AutoSelect pursuant to Section 12(c) (Unilateral
Amendment to Discontinue AutoSelect), Lender authorises the
Bank to accept the written notice of Borrower identifying or
converting an AutoSelect Transaction or a Manual Transaction
assigned to the corresponding Eligibility Set pursuant to the
procedures set forth in the LSA Operating Procedures; provided,
however, that:

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(ii)	 Each of Borrower and Lender acknowledges that each
of them may enter into other Triparty Agreements with
the Bank under which AutoSelect processing is used for
transactions.
(e)	 Access of Borrower to Lender’s Reports

Lender agrees to provide Borrower access to information
on future income payments and redemptions relating to
Collateral Securities that the Euroclear Operator provides to
Lender in accordance with the Operating Procedures through
Euroclear Advance Notice of Income and Redemption
(ANIR) reports, or any similar successor report.

(i)	 if Lender gives the Bank a notice to convert an
AutoSelect Transaction to a Manual Transaction prior
to the relevant deadline indicated in the Timetable,
the Bank will process the Transaction as a Manual
Transaction beginning on the Business Day indicated in
the Timetable; and

Lender also agrees to provide Borrower access to provisional
and definitive details about upcoming option deadlines
and corporate events affecting securities held in Lender’s
Account(s) through Euroclear DACE reports that the
Euroclear Operator provides to Lender in accordance with
the Operating Procedures, or any similar successor report.

(ii)	 if Lender has amended this Agreement to discontinue
the use of AutoSelect for one or more Eligibility Sets
or for all Eligibility Sets by providing a notice pursuant
to Section 12(c) (Unilateral Amendment to Discontinue
AutoSelect), the Bank will process all Transactions in
those Eligibility Sets as Manual Transactions beginning
at the time that amendment is effective.

(f)	

Until the time, if any, that the Bank receives a notice from
Lender stating that it is willing to resume AutoSelect
processing of the Transaction (or of all the Transactions), the
Bank will not process the Transaction(s) as an AutoSelect
Transaction even if Borrower gives the Bank a notice to
convert the Transaction to an AutoSelect Transaction.
Lender will send to Borrower a copy of any notice it gives to
the Bank to convert an AutoSelect Transaction to a Manual
Transaction or to discontinue AutoSelect for all Transactions
in one or more Eligibility Sets or all Eligibility Sets, but
the failure of Lender to do so will not affect the Bank’s
obligations under the previous two paragraphs. Borrower will
have no right to contest Lender’s notice to the Bank. The
Bank will send to Borrower a copy of Lender’s notice as soon
as reasonably practicable.
(d)	 AutoSelect Acknowledgements

(i)	 Each of Borrower and Lender acknowledges that
instructions with respect to AutoSelect Transactions (if
any) are being generated and entered by the Bank on
behalf of Borrower and Lender in accordance with the
AutoSelect Methodology and such other procedures
consistent therewith as agreed to from time to time by
Borrower and the Bank and that such instructions are
generated and entered only to the extent Securities are, in
accordance with such procedures, available for allocation
and transfer.

Authority for Internet Reporting

Each of Borrower and Lender authorises the other to access,
and the Bank to make available through the Internet, the
Internet Reports.

6.	 Bank Fees
Unless otherwise agreed, Borrower agrees to pay to the Bank
all fees relating to Lender’s Account(s) and all amounts (other
than keying, query and communications fees, which will be
payable by the user thereof) relating to this Agreement, in
each case as such amounts are set forth in monthly billing
statements sent by the Bank to Borrower in accordance with
the Euroclear Tariff, as in effect from time to time. Amounts
payable by Borrower will be debited from Borrower’s
Account or such other Cash Account as Borrower may
specify by written notice to the Bank from time to time or,
if no such Cash Account has been duly specified, any Cash
Account of Borrower. Amounts payable by Lender will be
debited from Lender’s Account or such other cash account as
Lender may specify by written notice to the Bank from time
to time or, if no such cash account has been duly specified,
any cash account of Lender. No amount may be debited
from any account which is subject to the Pledged Account
Agreement, and a party with such an account must specify in
writing another account for the purposes of debiting amounts
under this Section 6.

LSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP110007

4

Exhibit P-11

7.	 Duties and Liabilities of the Bank
(a)	General

(i)	 The Bank has no obligations except as expressly set out
in this Agreement.
(ii)	 The Bank is not liable to Borrower or Lender for any
Losses arising in connection with:
(A)	 any event or matter referred to in paragraphs (i), (ii)
or (iii) of Section 8(a) (Indemnitor’s Instructions,
Default or Breach) or paragraphs (i) or (ii) of
Section 8(b) (Bank’s Performance) or Section 9
(Effect of Certain Events and Disputes) of this
Agreement, or Section 12(c) of the Terms and
Conditions; or
(B)	 any act or omission of the Bank in connection with
this Agreement,
	
except in the case of its negligence or wilful misconduct.
(iii)	 The Bank is not liable to anyone for unforeseeable
Losses, Losses not flowing directly and naturally from
a breach of this Agreement or Losses representing loss
of profit, except in the case of its wilful misconduct and
then only to Borrower or Lender.
(iv)	 In the event of any dispute, Borrower or Lender, as the
case may be, bears the burden of proving negligence or
wilful misconduct by the Bank.
(v) The Bank is not liable to anyone for any Losses arising in
connection with this Agreement, the Loan Agreement,
the Security Agreement, the Pledged Account Agreement
(if applicable) or any other related agreement except, but
only to the extent specified in paragraphs (ii) and (iii)
above, to Borrower or Lender.
(vi)	Acceptance of securities into the Euroclear System
is governed by the Operating Procedures and not this
Agreement. Acceptance and setting up new securities for
use in the services described in this Agreement is not part
of the services which the Bank agrees to provide pursuant
to this Agreement.
(vii) All warranties, conditions and other terms implied by
statute or common law are, to the fullest extent permitted
by law, excluded from this Agreement.
(b)	 Borrower’s and Lender’s Responsibilities

The Bank makes no representation regarding, need not inquire
into, does not guarantee and is not liable to anyone for any
Losses arising in connection with the following, all of which
are Borrower’s and/or Lender’s sole responsibility:
(i)	 the title, validity or genuineness of any Security;
(ii)	 the legality of the loan, delivery or transfer of any Cash
or Security;

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(iii)	 the due authorisation of any person to act on behalf of
Borrower or Lender in connection with Eligible Cash
or Eligible Securities held in Borrower’s Account or
Collateral Cash or Collateral Securities held in any
Lender’s Account;
(iv)	 the capacity and authority of a Representative to act for
the benefit of any Client;
(v)	 the characterisation of any Security as a Net Paying
Security or the eligibility of any Security as a Collateral
Security under the Loan Agreement and the Security
Agreement;
(vi)	 the validity or enforceability of, or any statement or
representation made by Borrower and/or Lender in
connection with, this Agreement, the Loan Agreement,
the Security Agreement, the Pledged Account Agreement
(if applicable) or any other related agreement;
(vii) the performance of the obligations of Borrower or
Lender under this Agreement, the Loan Agreement, the
Security Agreement, the Pledged Account Agreement
(if applicable) or any other related agreement or the
performance of any Client (if applicable) under the Loan
Agreement, the Security Agreement or any other related
agreement;
(viii)	an extension of credit in connection with any
Transaction;
(ix)	 the settlement of instructions entered into the Euroclear
System; or
(x)	 the value (or the sufficiency of the value) of any
Securities delivered or transferred.
(c)	 Bank’s Notice and Inquiry

Except as expressly set out in this Agreement, the Bank:
(i)	 will be deemed to have no notice of, and need not
inquire into, any transaction between Borrower and
Lender (or one or more of their respective Clients, if
applicable) under the Loan Agreement and the Security
Agreement or otherwise or the performance or breach
of this Agreement, the Loan Agreement, the Security
Agreement, the Pledged Account Agreement (if
applicable) or any other related agreement; and
(ii)	 need not give Borrower or Lender notice of any breach
by Borrower or Lender of this Agreement or any
breach by Borrower or Lender (or one or more of their
respective Clients, if applicable) of the Loan Agreement,
the Security Agreement, the Pledged Account Agreement
(if applicable) or any other related agreement.

LSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP110008

5

Exhibit P-11

(d)	 Notices to Bank

(i)	 The Bank may rely on any notice or data from Borrower
or Lender under this Agreement and is not liable to
anyone for any Losses arising in connection with:
(A)	 unsigned notices, or the unauthorised signing or
giving of written or oral notices by any person, or
the unauthorised alteration of them or of any other
instrument;
(B)	 the incorrectness or incompleteness of information
in any notice; or
(C)	 the incorrectness or incompleteness of data
transmitted by computer tape or terminal or other
computer facility,
	

unless the Bank actually knows (x) that the notice or
data was not sent by Borrower or Lender; (y) of the
lack of authority; or (z) that the information or data was
incorrect.

(ii)	 The Bank is not liable to anyone for any Losses arising
in connection with:
(A)	 any notices sent otherwise than in accordance with
Section 18(a) (Notices);
(B)	 its acting upon oral notice reasonably believed by
it to be from a person acting on behalf of Borrower
or Lender, as the case may be, or on data received
over any electronic system whereby the receiver is
able to verify by code or otherwise with reasonable
certainty the identity of the sender of such
communication, even if subsequent written notices
differ from such oral or data notices; or
(C)	 its acceptance of, and its acting, in its discretion,
upon, notices from Borrower or Lender received
after the deadlines set out in the Timetable.
(e)	 AutoSelect Allocation

The Bank makes no representation that any allocations of
securities or cash generated by AutoSelect in accordance
with this Agreement will represent the optimal allocation of
securities or cash among all AutoSelect Transactions or all
counterparties of Borrower. The Bank is not liable to anyone
for any Losses arising in connection with securities not being
optimally allocated.
(f)	

Price Data

The Bank is not liable to anyone for any Losses arising in
connection with any error by, or any incorrect price received
from, any pricing or other information source used by the
Euroclear Operator in its ordinary course of business or
the appropriateness or relative change of any price and
need not determine volatility factors with respect to or the
appropriateness of any price.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(g)	 Force Majeure

If the Bank acts or fails to act (including, without limitation,
fails to receive or deliver, or cause to be received or delivered,
Securities or fails to receive or make, or cause to be received
or made, any payment) as a result of or in connection with
Force Majeure, such action or failure is not a breach of this
Agreement and the Bank is not liable to anyone for Losses
arising in connection with such action or failure.
8.	Indemnification
(a)	 Indemnitor’s Instructions, Default or Breach

Subject to Section 8(e), Borrower or Lender (in each
case, the ‘Indemnitor’) will promptly upon demand by the
Bank release, defend, indemnify and hold harmless each
Indemnified Party for and against Losses or Claims suffered
by that Indemnified Party arising in connection with:
(i)	 the Bank’s execution of instructions based on that
Indemnitor’s notices;
(ii)	 the Bank’s failure or delay, in whole or in part, to take
any action to be taken under this Agreement or otherwise
to fulfil any of its obligations under this Agreement, to
the extent that such failure or delay arises in connection
with the negligence or wilful misconduct of that
Indemnitor or any Related Party of that Indemnitor; or
(iii)	 any breach by that Indemnitor or any Related Party of
that Indemnitor of any provision of this Agreement or
any law, decree, regulation or order of any government
or governmental body (including any court or tribunal),
except, subject to Section 8(c)(i), Losses or Claims arising
out of the negligence or wilful misconduct of the Bank.
(b)	 Bank’s Performance

Subject to Section 8(e), Borrower and Lender will, promptly
upon demand by the Bank, jointly and severally, release,
defend, indemnify and hold harmless each Indemnified Party
for and against Losses and Claims, other than Losses or
Claims against which the Bank is indemnified under
Section 8(a), suffered by such Indemnified Party arising in
connection with:
(i)	 any act or omission of the Bank in connection with this
Agreement or the Terms and Conditions; or
(ii)	 the performance of obligations under Belgian or other
applicable law in connection with this Agreement or the
Terms and Conditions,
except, subject to Section 8(c)(ii), Losses or Claims arising
out of the negligence or wilful misconduct of the Bank.

LSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP110009

6

Exhibit P-11

(c)	 Breach and Related Party Claims

(i)	 The exception to Section 8(a) does not apply in respect of
(A)	 Losses or Claims suffered by the Indemnified Party
arising as a result of any breach as referred to in
Section 8(a)(iii); or
(B)	 Losses caused or Claims made or brought by any
Related Party of the Indemnitor.
(ii)	 The exception to Section 8(b) does not, in relation to
Borrower or (as the case may be) Lender, apply in
respect of Losses caused or Claims made or brought by
any Related Party, respectively, of Borrower or Lender.
(d)	 Burden of Proof

The party from whom the Bank is seeking an indemnity under
Section 8(a) or Section 8(b) bears the burden of proving:
(i)	 the negligence or wilful misconduct of the Bank for the
purposes of the exception to Section 8(a) or Section 8(b),
respectively; or
(ii)	 the application, if any, of Section 8(e).
(e)	Limitations

The party from whom the Bank is seeking an indemnity under
Section 8(a) or Section 8(b) is not liable in respect of:
(i)	 Losses caused or Claims made or brought by:
(A)	 any third party (other than any Related Party of
the party from whom the Bank is seeking such an
indemnity); or
(B)	 the other party to this Agreement or any Related
Party of that other party; or
(ii)	 Losses caused by an event or circumstance constituting
Force Majeure and which is beyond the reasonable
control of the party from whom the Bank is seeking such
an indemnity.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

9.	 Effect of Certain Events and Disputes
(a)	 Withdrawal of Authorisation, Notice of Default under the
Loan Agreement or the Security Agreement or Insolvency

The Bank will, to the extent permitted by applicable law,
cease entering any instructions into the Euroclear System
pursuant to this Agreement as soon as reasonably practicable
after the receipt by the Bank of:
(i)	 any written notice of a withdrawal by Borrower or
Lender of its authorisation(s) under Section 5(a)
(Authority of the Bank to Enter Instructions into the
Euroclear System);

(ii)	 any written notice of default with respect to Borrower
or Lender or one or more of their Clients, if applicable,
under the Loan Agreement and or the Security
Agreement sent by Borrower or Lender to the Bank
(unless and until Borrower or Lender, as the case may be,
withdraws such notice of default by notice to the Bank);
or
(iii)	 any written notice from Borrower or Lender that it
has filed for bankruptcy or declared that it is insolvent
or bankrupt or that it has become the subject of any
involuntary proceeding in respect of its insolvency or
bankruptcy,
provided that, in each case, the Bank will enter instructions
in accordance with (x) subsequent matching notices from
Borrower and Lender to the Bank or (y) a final order (whether
or not subject to appeal) of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(b)	 Continuing Disputes

In the event of any other (x) dispute between or conflicting
claims, demands, notices or instructions by Borrower, Lender,
a Client and/or any other person or (y) conflicting notices
by Borrower or Lender, with respect to any cash credited
to any Lender’s Account or to Borrower’s Account, any
Securities, Borrower’s Account or any Lender’s Account
(other than withdrawals of authorisation, notices of default
or filings for or declarations of insolvency or bankruptcy
notified to the Bank pursuant to Section 9(a), the Bank may
decline to comply with any and all claims, demands, notices
or instructions or to take any action hereunder with respect to
the cash, the Securities, Borrower’s Account or the Lender’s
Account as long as that dispute or conflict is continuing.
The Bank will not be liable for any Losses arising out of such
failure to act or to comply with such claims, demands, notices
or instructions.

LSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP110010

7

Exhibit P-11

The dispute or conflict will be deemed to continue and the
Bank will be entitled to refuse to act or comply until either:
(i)	 the conflicting or adverse claims or demands have been
determined in a court of competent jurisdiction or settled
by agreement among the conflicting parties and/or such a
court; or
(ii)	 the Bank has received security or an indemnity
satisfactory to it sufficient to hold it harmless from and
against any and all Losses which it may incur by reason
of taking any action directly or indirectly in connection
with this Agreement.
The Bank may assume that no disputes or conflicting claims
or notices exist unless it has received a copy of a written
notice thereof sent by Borrower to Lender or by Lender to
Borrower.

10. Termination
(a)	 Termination on Notice

Except as provided in Section 18(e) (Survival), this
Agreement may be terminated by any party hereto on
30 Business Days’ written notice to the other parties. In spite
of any such notice of termination, this Agreement will remain
applicable to any Transactions then outstanding.
(b)	 Immediate Termination

The Bank may terminate this Agreement immediately with
respect to all outstanding Transactions and all proposed
transactions in the event that:
(i)	 any representation made by Borrower or Lender in this
Agreement will have been incorrect or untrue in any
material respect when made or repeated or deemed to
have been made or repeated;
(ii)	 Borrower or Lender ceases to be a Participant in the
Euroclear System; or
(iii)	 the Loan Agreement or the Security Agreement or the
Pledged Account Agreement (if applicable) is terminated.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(c) Termination on Revocation of Representative’s Authority

If a Representative’s authority to take action hereunder
for the benefit of a Client is revoked by such Client, such
Representative may, by giving written notice (which notice
shall be conclusive evidence of such revocation for the
purposes of this Agreement) to the Bank specifying the
relevant outstanding Transactions and the date at which
such revocation came or will come into effect, terminate this
Agreement with respect to such outstanding Transactions
between Borrower and Lender, and all such proposed
transactions between Borrower and Lender, in each case, as
have been, or are proposed to be, entered into for the benefit
of such Client.
In addition, if the Bank receives written notice from a
Representative or its Client that such Representative’s
authority as aforesaid has been revoked by such Client and
specifying the relevant outstanding Transactions and the
date at which such revocation came or will come into effect
(which notice shall be conclusive evidence of such revocation
for the purposes of this Agreement), the Bank may, in its
discretion, by giving notice to Borrower and Lender either:
(i)	 terminate this Agreement with respect to all outstanding
Transactions and all proposed transactions; or
(ii)	 terminate this Agreement with respect to such
outstanding Transactions and all such proposed
transactions, in each case, as have been, or are proposed
to be, entered into for the benefit of such Client.
Termination of this Agreement pursuant to this Section 10(c)
will take place either immediately, if according to the relevant
notice the revocation of the Representative’s authority already
came into effect, or as from the date at which the relevant
notice states that such revocation will come into effect.
(d)	 Delivery after Termination

Upon the effectiveness of any termination of this Agreement
as aforesaid, or as soon thereafter as is reasonably practicable,
the Bank will, unless otherwise directed by Borrower and
Lender and subject to Section 9 (Effect of Certain Events and
Disputes) of this Agreement and subject to Section 14(d) of
the Terms and Conditions, cause to be delivered to Lender
any amounts of Collateral Cash and Collateral Securities then
credited to any Lender’s Account and to Borrower any amounts
of cash and securities then credited to Borrower’s Account.

LSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP110011

8

Exhibit P-11

11.	Confidentiality
The Bank represents to each of Borrower and Lender that
information which reveals or relates to, or which would
permit the determination of the Euroclear securities positions
of, or Transactions by, Borrower and/or its Client and Lender
and/or any of its Clients, respectively (including any future
or planned securities positions or transactions), or the type
and amount of any Collateral Securities, will only be used by
the Bank in connection with the operation of the Euroclear
System or the provision of banking services to Lender or
Borrower, as the case may be.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Bank may, where it is
bound by the law of any territory or country or pursuant
to any requirement of any regulatory body, disclose any
information or produce any document in its possession
or control. If the Bank discloses information concerning
Borrower and/or its Client (if applicable) or Lender and/or
any of its Clients (if applicable) to any such regulatory body,
the Bank will inform Borrower or Lender, as appropriate,
unless the Bank may not do so or has been requested not to
do so by such regulatory authority.

12.	Amendments
(a)	 LSA Terms and Conditions

These LSA Terms and Conditions may only be amended or
modified by a written agreement executed by the parties and
the Annexes I and II may be amended or modified only by a
written agreement, except as set forth in paragraphs (b), (c)
and (d) below. Unconditional SWIFT Elections may only be
amended or modified by:
(i)	 establishing a new set of Unconditional SWIFT
Elections, in place of the then current Unconditional
SWIFT Elections, by repeating the procedure set out in
Section 2(d) and (e); or
(ii)	 complying with the procedures for unilateral amendment
set out in paragraph (b) below.
An amendment under this Section 12(a) is effective when the
Bank notifies Borrower and Lender that it is effective.
(b)	 Unilateral Amendment

Lender may, upon notice to and with the consent of the Bank,
amend Annexes I and II to include in Eligible Securities one or
more types of security, identified by ISIN or Common Code,
without the agreement of Borrower.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Borrower may, upon notice to and with the consent of the
Bank, amend Annexes I and II to exclude from Eligible
Securities, for a stated period or until a subsequent notice of
Borrower is given (with the consent of the Bank) to include
such Eligible Securities again, one or more types of security,
identified by ISIN or Common Code, without the agreement of
Lender.
The Bank may, upon notice to Borrower and Lender, amend
Annexes I and II to exclude any security or securities from
Eligible Securities or any currency or currencies from Eligible
Cash without the agreement of Borrower or Lender.
An amendment under this Section 12(b) must be in writing,
which may include a facsimile or SWIFT message, and will be
effective when the Bank notifies Borrower and Lender that it is
effective.
(c)	 Unilateral Amendment to Discontinue AutoSelect

Lender may at any time, by giving notice to the Bank before
the deadline indicated in the Timetable for Allocation Mode
Management (as defined in the LSA Operating Procedures),
amend this Agreement to discontinue the use of AutoSelect,
without the agreement of Borrower or the Bank, for one or
more Eligibility Sets or for all Eligibility Sets, effective as of
the Business Day indicated in the Timetable.
(d)	 LSA Operating Procedures

The Bank may amend the LSA Operating Procedures at
any time by notice to Borrower and Lender. Borrower and
Lender will be deemed to have agreed to and accepted any
such amendment (i) effective immediately, if the amendment
does not adversely affect Borrower or Lender or (ii) effective
30 Business Days after the Bank sends it, for any other
amendment.
(e)	 No Waivers

No waiver, or acceptance of performance other than as
provided in this Agreement, on the part of any party will be a
waiver, or acceptance of such performance, in the future. The
Bank’s acceptance, in its discretion, of any notice or notices
from Borrower or Lender received after the relevant deadline
set out in the Timetable does not oblige it to accept any such
notice so received in the future.

13. Agreement of the Parties
If any provision of this Agreement is inconsistent or in
conflict with any provision of the Loan Agreement or the
Security Agreement (including any provisions to the effect
that such Loan Agreement or Security Agreement will prevail
over any other agreement), this Agreement will prevail.
Except as expressly provided in this Agreement, no provision
of this Agreement shall modify or abrogate any right or
obligation under the Pledged Account Agreement (if applicable).

LSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP110012

9

Exhibit P-11

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

14.	 Applicable Law; Jurisdiction

17.	 Service of Process

This Agreement and any dispute or claim arising out of
or in connection with it or its subject matter or formation
(including non-contractual disputes or claims) will be
governed by and construed in accordance with English law.

Each of Borrower and Lender consents to the service of any
and all process, notices or other documents which may be
served in any such suit, action or proceeding either:

Each of Borrower and Lender irrevocably agrees for the
exclusive benefit of the Bank that the Courts of England are
to have jurisdiction to settle any disputes or claims which may
arise out of or in connection with this Agreement or its subject
matter or formation (including non-contractual disputes or
claims) and that, accordingly, any suit, action or proceeding
arising out of or in connection with this Agreement or its
subject matter or formation (including non-contractual disputes
or claims) may be brought in such Courts. Nothing contained
in this Section 14 will limit the right of the Bank to take any
such suit, action or proceeding against each of Borrower and
Lender or both in any other court of competent jurisdiction
nor will the taking of such suit, action or proceeding in one or
more jurisdictions preclude the taking of any such suit, action
or proceeding in any other jurisdiction by the Bank whether
concurrently or not, to the extent permitted by the law of such
other jurisdiction.
The Borrower and Lender waive (and agree not to raise) any
objection, on the ground of forum non conveniens or any other
ground, to the taking of proceedings by the Bank in any court
in accordance with this Section 14. The Borrower and Lender
also agree that a judgment against one or both of them in the
Bank’s favour in proceedings brought in any jurisdiction in
accordance with this Section 14 shall be conclusive and
binding upon them and may be enforced in any other jurisdiction.

15.	 Waiver of Immunity
Each of Borrower and Lender waives, to the fullest extent
permitted by applicable law, all immunity (on the basis of
sovereignty or otherwise) from jurisdiction, attachment (both
before and after judgment) and execution to which it might
otherwise be entitled in any suit, action or proceeding in the
Courts of England or of any other country or jurisdiction
relating in any way to this Agreement and agrees that it will
not raise, claim or cause to be pleaded any such immunity at
or in respect of any such suit, action or proceeding.

(i)	 by mailing a copy thereof to its address referred to in
Section 18(a) (Notices) by registered or certified mail;
(ii)	 by serving a copy thereof at its domicile in Belgium
or upon any agent for service appointed as provided in
Section 16 (Domicile) (whether or not the election of
domicile or the appointment of such agent for service
of process will for any reason prove to be ineffective
or such agent will fail to accept or acknowledge such
service) and mailing a copy thereof to its address referred
to in Section 18(a) (Notices) by registered or certified
mail; or
(iii)	 in any other manner permitted by applicable law.
Each of Borrower and Lender waives all claims of error by
reason of any service in accordance with this Section 17 and
agrees that such service (x) will be deemed in every respect
effective service of process upon it and (y) will be taken and
held to be valid personal service upon and personal delivery
to it.

18.	Miscellaneous
(a)	Notices

Unless otherwise specified herein, notices required by this
Agreement must be in writing (which will include, without
limitation, facsimile, EUCLID, EasyWay or SWIFT).
Borrower and Lender agree that any notices given under
this Agreement will be sent to the Bank to the attention of
‘Collateral Management Administration’ at the address set
forth in Exhibit 1 or to the attention of such other contact
at such other address as the Bank may from time to time
designate to Borrower and Lender in writing. The Bank is not
required to comply with and is not deemed to have any notice
or knowledge of any notice sent by any Client. Any notice to
Borrower or Lender authorised or required by this Agreement
will be addressed to the persons indicated at the addresses set
forth in Exhibit 1 or to such other person or persons as the
receiving party may from time to time designate to the other
parties in writing.

16.	Domicile
Each of Borrower and Lender elects domicile in Belgium at
the Bank for the purpose of any suit, action or proceeding in
Belgium arising out of or relating to this Agreement and will
appoint promptly on request from the Bank authorised agents
in London for the purpose of receiving service of process in
any such suit, action or proceeding in England.

LSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP110013

10

Exhibit P-11

Chapter 3 (Transaction Processing) of the LSA Operating
Procedures contains the Timetable, setting out the deadlines
by which the various notices must be received by the Bank
for processing. The Bank may, in its sole discretion, attempt
to process notices received or validated after the deadlines
set forth in the Timetable. Notices will be effective from the
time they are actually received by the intended recipient by
telephone, facsimile, EUCLID, EasyWay or SWIFT. or any
other means designated by the Bank.
In any situation in which this Agreement requires written
notice, the Bank may but is not required to act on oral notice
reasonably believed by it to be notice of a person acting on
behalf of Borrower or Lender or, for the purposes of
Section 10(c) (Termination on Revocation of Representative’s
Authority), a Client or a person purporting to be a Client,
as the case may be, or on data received over any electronic
system whereby the receiver is able to verify by code or
otherwise with reasonable certainty the identity of the sender
of such communication. Borrower and Lender shall confirm
in writing any oral or electronic data notice. Failure to
confirm in writing or any conflict between subsequent written
notices and oral or data notices will not affect the authority
of any acts taken or omitted by the Bank pursuant to oral or
electronic data notices. The Bank reserves the right to record
telephone conversations with Borrower or Lender and to refer
to such recordings in the event of any dispute. Nothing in
this paragraph permits oral amendments to this Agreement.
(b)	 Binding Agreement; Assignment and Novation

The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and
inure to the benefit of the Bank, Borrower and Lender and
their respective successors and assigns (including any trustee,
conservators or other officers of the court in any bankruptcy
or insolvency proceeding), subject to the next paragraph.
The rights and obligations of each party under this Agreement
may not be assigned or novated without the written consent
of the other parties and any assignment or novation without
such consent will be null and void.
(c)	Severability

Each provision and agreement in this Agreement will be
separate from any other provision or agreement in this
Agreement and will be enforceable, notwithstanding the
unenforceability of any other provision or agreement.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(d)	Representatives

Despite the fact that any Representative is acting for the
benefit of any Client in connection with this Agreement:
(i)	 that Representative will have and be entitled to assert
any claim, counterclaim or defence in connection with
this Agreement or the Bank’s performance of services
under this Agreement only to the extent that it has or is
entitled to assert that claim, counterclaim or defence in
its capacity as a principal party to this Agreement;
(ii)	 that Representative shall be liable for the performance
of all its obligations and for all its indemnities given
under this Agreement, including but not limited to the
indem-nity contained in Section 8 (Indemnification), as a
principal party to this Agreement;
(iii)	 no Client is a party to this Agreement and no Client
will have any rights under or in connection with this
Agreement against the Bank; and
(iv)	 the Bank will have obligations under or in connection
with this Agreement only to Borrower and Lender and
will not be liable to any Client under or in connection
with this Agreement in any manner whatsoever
(including, without limitation, in contract or in tort).
(e)	Survival

All releases, limitations of liability and indemnifications
provided in this Agreement will survive the termination of
this Agreement.
(f)	

Headings and References

The headings and captions in this Agreement are for reference
only and will not affect the construction or interpretation of
any of its provisions.

19.	Glossary
References in this Agreement to the singular include the
plural, and vice versa.
The following words, as used in this Agreement, have the
following meanings:
‘Agreement’ has the meaning set forth in the first sentence of

this Agreement.

‘AutoSelect’ means an electronic processing module owned

by the Bank designed to facilitate the selection of securities
for Triparty Agreements.

LSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP110014

11

Exhibit P-11

‘AutoSelect Methodology’ means the method by which
the AutoSelect processing module selects securities to be
transferred between Borrower’s Account and counterparty
accounts, as described in Chapter 6 (AutoSelect Processing
Methodology) of the LSA Operating Procedures.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

‘Collateral Cash’ means, with respect to a Transaction:

•	
•	

‘AutoSelect Processing’ means an option in Annexes I and II
which determines whether or not Borrower and Lender may
use AutoSelect processing of Transactions in an Eligibility
Set under this Agreement.
‘AutoSelect Transaction’ means a Transaction that is
processed by the Bank using AutoSelect.
‘Bank’ means Euroclear Bank and its successors and assigns,
as secured loan service agent under this Agreement.
‘Borrower’ has the meaning set forth in the first sentence of

‘Collateral Securities’ means, with respect to any Transaction:

•	

this Agreement.

‘Borrower’s Account’ means a Securities Clearance Account
in the Euroclear System in the name of Borrower and the
Cash Account in the Euroclear System in the name of
Borrower associated therewith, the number of which is
indicated in the Annexes, which will be used for Securities
and Cash, respectively, with respect to Transactions and
which in each case will be designated a ‘client account’ if
Borrower has entered into this Agreement for the benefit of
one Client.

the Eligible Cash, if any, credited with respect to such
Transaction to the relevant Lender’s Account; or
a sum of money equivalent to the proceeds from the
redemption of any Collateral Security or proceeds
received as consideration upon a takeover or similar
event with respect to any Collateral Security increased
or decreased by any cash credited or debited, as the case
may be, to the relevant Lender’s Account from time
to time with respect to such Transaction pursuant to a
substitution of Eligible Securities for Collateral Cash, a
Transaction-size decrease or a closing pursuant to this
Agreement.

•	

the Eligible Securities credited with respect to such
Transaction to the relevant Lender’s Account as of the
relevant Initiation Date (as defined in the LSA Operating
Procedures), increased or decreased by any Securities
credited or debited, as the case may be, to of from that
Lender’s Account from time to time with respect to such
Transaction pursuant to this Agreement; or
Equivalent Securities thereto.

‘Eligibility Set’ means the Eligible Securities and Eligible

‘Cash’ means Eligible Cash or Collateral Cash.

Cash identified in each set of Annexes I and II or by way
of the Unconditional SWIFT Elections, as such Annexes or
Unconditional SWIFT Elections may be amended from time
to time, and the options, amounts and percentages selected
in the corresponding set of Annexes I and II or by way of
the Unconditional SWIFT Elections, as such Annexes or
Unconditional SWIFT Elections may be amended from time
to time.

‘Claims’ means any claim, demand, action, investigation or

‘Eligible Cash’ means on any date:

‘Business Day’ means a day when the operation of the
Euroclear System takes place.

administrative proceeding made or brought by an Indemnitor
or any Related Party of that Indemnitor in connection with
this Agreement.

‘Client’ means each person other than Borrower or Lender:

•	

who has entered into, or who will enter into, the Loan
Agreement and the Security Agreement with Borrower or
Lender; or
•	 for whose benefit Borrower or its Client (if applicable)
or Lender or its Client (if applicable) has entered into,
or will enter into, the Loan Agreement and the Security
Agreement,
and for whose benefit Borrower or Lender has entered into
the Pledged Account Agreement (if applicable) and has
entered into, or will enter into, this Agreement.

•	 any Settlement Currency which Borrower and Lender
have designated as the securities denomination currency
of an Eligible Security in the applicable Eligibility Set in
Annexes I and II or by way of the Unconditional SWIFT
Elections, as such Annexes or Unconditional SWIFT
Elections may be amended from time to time; and
•	 if any such currency has been replaced by the euro, the
euro; and
•	 with respect to a Transaction, the Transaction Currency
of that Transaction.

LSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP110015

12

Exhibit P-11

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

‘Eligible Securities’ means on any date any of the Eurocleareligible securities of a type which Borrower and Lender have
agreed, with the consent of the Bank, will be eligible as of
such date to become Collateral securities for a Transaction
by their inclusion in the applicable set in Annexes I and II
or by way of the Unconditional SWIFT Elections, as such
Annexes or Unconditional SWIFT Elections may be amended
from time to time, and as may be limited by certain options
in the corresponding set of Annexes I and II or by way of
the Unconditional SWIFT Elections, as such Annexes or
Unconditional SWIFT Elections may be amended from time
to time.

‘Euroclear Operator’ means Euroclear Bank, and its
successors and assigns, acting in the capacity of operator of
the Euroclear System.

‘Equivalent Securities’ means, with respect to any Transaction:

‘Euroclear-eligible securities’ means, at any time, any of the

•	

‘Force Majeure’ means any event or circumstance beyond the
reasonable control of the Bank, including, without limitation,
war, insurrection, riot, civil commotion, act of God, accident,
fire, water damage, explosion, mechanical breakdown,
computer or systems failure or other equipment failure, failure
or malfunctioning of any communications media for whatever
reason (whether or not such media are made available to
Borrower or Lender by the Bank), interruption (partial or
total) of power supply or other utility or service, strike or
other labour stoppage (partial or total) and any law, decree,
regulation or order of any government or governmental body
(including any court or tribunal).

•	

securities of the same issuer, being of an identical type,
nominal value, description and amount to the Collateral
Securities with respect to such Transaction; or
in relation to Collateral Securities which are partly paid
or have been converted, subdivided, consolidated, made
the subject of a takeover, capitalisation issue, rights
issue, redenomination or event similar to any of the
foregoing, the following:
-	 in the case of conversion, subdivision or
consolidation, securities equivalent to the securities
into which the Collateral Securities have been
converted, subdivided or consolidated;
-	 in the case of takeover, securities equivalent to the
consideration or alternative consideration received;
-	 in the case of a call on partly paid securities,
securities equivalent to the paid-up securities;
-	 in the case of a capitalisation issue, securities
equivalent to the Collateral Securities together with
the securities allotted by way of bonus thereon;
-	 in the case of a rights issue, securities equivalent to
the Collateral Securities together with the securities
allotted in respect thereof;
-	 in the event that income in the form of securities, or
a certificate which may at a future date be exchanged
for securities or an entitlement to acquire securities
is distributed, securities equivalent to the Collateral
Securities together with securities or a certificate or
an entitlement equivalent to those allotted;
-	 in the case of a redenomination into euro (and a
related renominalisation, if applicable), securities of
the same issuer, being of an identical type, nominal
value, description and amount to the redenominated
(and renominalised, if applicable) Collateral
Securities; and
-	 in the case of any event similar to any of the
foregoing, securities equivalent to the Collateral
Securities together with or replaced by securities or
other property equivalent to that received in respect
of such Collateral Securities resulting from such
event.

‘Euroclear System’ means the clearance system for

internationally traded securities operated under contract by the
Euroclear Operator.

‘Euroclear Tariff’ means the Euroclear Tariff folder (which

includes a general fees brochure and specific tariff sheets)
distributed to all Participants, as may be amended from time
to time.

securities accepted at that time for deposit into the Euroclear
System in accordance with the Operating Procedures.

‘Indemnified Party’ means each of the Bank, its officers,

directors and employees.

‘Indemnitor’ means Borrower, or Lender, as the case may be.
‘Intended Transaction Amount’ means, with respect to a

Transaction, the monetary amount of the loan (being, in the
case of a loan of a commodity, the monetary value of the
commodity loaned as specified in accordance with the LSA
Operating Procedures) indicated as such in the matching
initiation notice, increased by amounts of cash proposed
to be transferred from Lender’s Account to Borrower’s
Account in a matching notice of Transaction-size increase
and decreased by amounts of cash proposed to be transferred
from Borrower’s Account to Lender’s Account in a matching
notice of Transaction-size decrease or pursuant to a closing.

‘Internet Report’ means the internet report made available at
the website of the Euroclear System by the Bank as described
in Chapter 5 (Reporting by the Bank) of the LSA Operating
Procedures to recipients subscribing for the service in a
separate subscription agreement.
‘Lender’ has the meaning set forth in the first sentence of this

Agreement.

LSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP110016

13

Exhibit P-11

‘Lender’s Account’ means the Securities Clearance Account

(or, in the case of Multiple Lender Accounts, one of such
Securities Clearance Accounts) in the Euroclear System in
the name of Lender and the Cash Account in the Euroclear
System in the name of Lender associated therewith, the
number of which is indicated in the Annexes I and II which
will be used only for Securities and Cash, respectively, with
respect to Transactions under this Agreement and which in
each case shall be designated a ‘client account’ if Lender has
entered into this Agreement for the benefit of one or more
Clients.

‘Loan’ means, in respect of a Transaction, the loan to which
the Transaction relates in this Agreement (such loan being of
cash only if it is to be settled in the Euroclear System).
‘Loan Agreement’ means one or more agreement(s) between
Borrower and Lender and/or one or more of their respective
Clients under which Borrower or its Client(s) (if applicable)
may borrow money or a commodity from Lender or one or
more of its Clients (if applicable).
‘Losses’ means, in relation to any person, any losses,

liabilities, obligations, fines, penalties, damages, taxes (other
than taxes on the overall income of such person), costs,
expenses (to the extent reasonable and other than ordinary
administrative expenses) or fees (including reasonable
counsel’s fees and accountant’s fees) of any kind or nature
whatsoever at any time.
‘LSA Operating Procedures’ means the Triparty Secured
Loan Service Agreement Operating Procedures, as amended
from time to time, which, together with the LSA Terms and
Conditions, form one contractual agreement.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

‘Operating Procedures’ means The Operating Procedures of
the Euroclear System established in accordance with Section 3
of the Terms and Conditions, as such Operating Procedures
may be amended from time to time.
‘Pledged Account Agreement’ means the Acceptance
Agreement to the Single Pledgor Pledged Account Terms and
Conditions.
‘Related Party’ in respect of an Indemnitor means any

agent (including employees of such agent), employee, client
(including Clients) or any other person for whose benefit
or on whose behalf that Indemnitor acts or who acts for the
benefit of or on behalf of that Indemnitor.

‘Representative’ means either or each of Borrower and

Lender if it has entered into, or will enter into, this Agreement
for the benefit of one or more Clients.

‘Securities’ means Eligible Securities or Collateral Securities.
‘Security Agreement’ means one or more agreement(s)

between Borrower and Lender and/or one or more of their
respective Clients under which Borrower or its Client (if
applicable) provides security (whether by conferring a
security interest over property or by transferring title to
property outright) for the loan made to it under the Loan
Agreement from time to time, to the Lender or one or more of
its Clients (if applicable).

‘Settlement Currency’ at any time means any of the currencies

accepted at that time in the Euroclear System as a Settlement
Currency in accordance with the Operating Procedures.

‘LSA Terms and Conditions’ means the Loan Service

‘Terms and Conditions’ means the Terms and Conditions
Governing Use of Euroclear, as amended from time to time.

‘Manual Transaction’ means a Transaction that is not an

‘Timetable’ means the table of deadlines set forth in Chapter 3
(Transaction processing) of the LSA Operating Procedures,
as amended from time to time.

Agreement Terms and Conditions, which, together with the
LSA Operating Procedures, form one contractual agreement.

AutoSelect Transaction.

‘Multiple Lender Accounts’ means an option in Annexes I and

II which determines whether or not Lender may open more
than one Lender’s Account.

‘Net Paying Security’ means any security with respect to

which any interest, dividend or other distribution payable by
the issuer to either Borrower or Lender is required by law to
be paid subject to withholding or deduction for or on account
of taxes or duties of any nature imposed, levied, collected,
withheld or assessed by any authority having power to tax.

‘Transaction’ means any secured loan governed by the Loan
Agreement, the Security Agreement, the Pledged Account
Agreement (if applicable) and this Agreement.
‘Transaction Currency’ means, with respect to a Transaction,

the currency in which the Intended Transaction Amount is
denominated.

‘Triparty Agreement’ means an agreement among two
Participants and the Bank under which the Bank serves as
service agent.
‘Unconditional SWIFT Elections’ has the meaning set forth in

section 2(e) of this Agreement.

LSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP110017

14

Exhibit P-11

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

20.	Effectiveness
(A) This Agreement will become binding upon Borrower,
Lender and the Bank if:
(i)	 the Bank has executed this Agreement, previously
signed by Borrower and Lender; and
(ii)	 the Bank has received from Lender the duly
authorised and executed documentation relating to
the opening of the Lender’s Account (or, in the case
of Multiple Lender Accounts, the opening of all
such accounts); and
(iii)	 the Bank has notified Borrower and Lender that the
Agreement is effective.
(B)	 Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (A) above,
this Agreement will also become binding Borrower,
Lender and the Bank if:
(i)	 the Borrower and the Bank have executed the Form
of Agreement RG 810 specifying (a) the Loan
Service Agreement under ‘Specific services’ or (b)
all collateral management service agreements under
‘All services’ or such other form and in such manner
as may be specified by the Bank; and
(ii)	 the Lender and the Bank have executed the Form
of Agreement RG 810 specifying (a) the Loan
Service Agreement under ‘Specific services’ or (b)
all collateral management service agreements under
‘All services’ or such other form and in such manner
as may be specified by the Bank; and
(iii)	 either Borrower or Lender have duly executed
Annexes I and II and the provisions of Sections 2(d),
(e) and (f) of this Agreement are complied with in
relation to such Annexes; and
(iv)	 the Bank has received from Lender the duly
authorised and executed documentation relating to
the opening of the Lender’s Account (or, in the case
of Multiple Lender Accounts, the opening of all
such accounts); and
(v)	 the Bank has notified Borrower and Lender that the
Agreement is effective.

21.	Counterparts
This Agreement may be executed in any number of
counterparts, each of which will be deemed to be an original,
and all of which together will be one Agreement.

LSA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP110018

15

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

© 2015 Euroclear Bank SA/NV, 1 Boulevard du Roi Albert II, 1210 Brussels, Belgium – Tel: +32 (0)2 326 1211 –
RPM Brussels number 0429 875 591 – Euroclear is the marketing name for the Euroclear System, Euroclear plc,
Euroclear SA/NV and their affiliates.
Euroclear is a carbon neutral company – PAS2060 certified in 2015

LG027

Exhibit P-11

www.euroclear.com

EXP110019

Exhibit P-18

August 2015

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Collateral Allocation Interface
Service Agreement
Terms and Conditions

Post-trade made easy

EXP180001

Exhibit P-18

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Collateral Allocation Interface Service Agreement
Terms and Conditions

(to be read in conjunction with the CAI Operating Procedures)

Table of Contents
.........................................................................................

1

..............................................................................................................................

1

1.	 Appointment and Acceptance of the Bank
2.	Selections

(a)	 Eligible Securities
(b)	 Eligibility Set Profiles
(c)	Annexes

3.	 Euroclear System . . .................................................................................................................... 1

.......................................................................................................................

2

...........................................................................................................................

2

..............................................................................................................................

3

. . ..................................................................................................

3

........................................................................................................................

4

4.	Representations

(a)	 Representations of Collateral Giver
(b)	 Representations of the Bank

5.	Transactions

(a)	 Authority of the Bank to Enter Instructions into the Euroclear System
(b)	 Authority of the Bank to Use AutoSelect
(c)	 AutoSelect Acknowledgements
(d)	 Authority for Internet Reporting

6.	 Bank Fees

7.	 Duties and Liabilities of the Bank

(a)	General
(b)	 Collateral Giver’s Responsibilities
(c)	 Bank’s Notice and Inquiry
(d)	 Notices to Bank
(e)	 AutoSelect Allocation
(f)	 Price Data
(g)	 Force Majeure

8.	Indemnification

(a)	 Collateral Giver’s Instructions, Default or Breach
(b)	 Bank’s Performance
(c)	 Breach and Related Party Claims
(d)	 Burden of Proof
(e)	Limitations

CAISA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP180002

Exhibit P-18

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

..............................................................................................

5

............................................................................................................................

5

.........................................................................................................................

6

. . .........................................................................................................................

6

.........................................................................................................

7

. . ..................................................................................................................

7

................................................................................................................................

7

9.	 Effect of Certain Events and Disputes

(a)	 Withdrawal of Authorisation or Insolvency
(b)	 Continuing Disputes

10.	Termination

(a)	 Termination on Notice
(b)	 Immediate Termination
(c)	 Termination on Revocation of Representative’s Authority
(d)	 Delivery after Termination

11.	Confidentiality
12.	Amendments

(a)	 CAI Terms and Conditions
(b)	 Unilateral Amendment
(c)	 CAI Operating Procedures
(d)	 No Waivers

13.	 Applicable Law; Jurisdiction
14.	 Waiver of Immunity
15.	Domicile

16.	 Service of Process

...................................................................................................................

7

17.	Miscellaneous .. ........................................................................................................................ 7

(a)	Notices
(b)	 Binding Agreement; Assignment and Novation
(c)	Severability
(d)	Representatives
(e)	Survival
(f)	 Headings and References

18.	Glossary

................................................................................................................................

8

19.	Effectiveness . . ....................................................................................................................... 11
20.	Counterparts

.........................................................................................................................

11

Exhibit 1 – Addresses
Annexes I and II (included in folder)

CAISA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP180003

Exhibit P-18

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Collateral Allocation Interface Service Agreement
This collateral service agreement (the ‘Agreement’) among
(1) _______________________________________________________________________________________________________
	
insert name of o1 collateral giver or o1 collateral giver’s representative, as applicable
(Account No. ____________________________________________________ ) (‘Collateral Giver’)2, and
(2)	 Euroclear Bank SA/NV as collateral service agent (the ‘Bank’),
comprises two parts, the CAI Terms and Conditions and the CAI Operating Procedures.
All references to ‘the Agreement’ or ‘this Agreement’ are to the CAI Terms and Conditions and the CAI Operating Procedures,
both as amended from time to time, which are to be read and construed as, and which together form, one contractual agreement.

CAI Terms and Conditions

2.	Selections

Collateral Giver has requested the Bank to perform certain
service functions and procedures in connection with the
provision of collateral by Collateral Giver or its Client (if
applicable). Therefore, in consideration of the promises
included in this Agreement and intending to be legally bound
hereby, the parties agree to the following terms.

(a)	 Eligible Securities

Capitalised words used in these CAI Terms and Conditions
have the meanings assigned to them in Section 18 (Glossary).
Capitalised words used only in the CAI Operating Procedures
have the meanings assigned to them in Chapter 8 (Glossary)
of the CAI Operating Procedures. If any capitalised word
is defined in both these CAI Terms and Conditions and the
CAI Operating Procedures, and the definitions assigned
are inconsistent, the definition in these CAI Terms and
Conditions will prevail. If capitalised terms are used but not
defined, they have the meaning assigned to them in the Terms
and Conditions and the Operating Procedures. The use of the
term ‘type’ with respect to securities means securities with
the same security code and description.

Collateral Giver, with the consent of the Bank, by initialing
each page of Annexes I and II, has agreed with Eligible
Securities defined in Annexes I and II, in one or more sets, to
be used with respect to Transactions under this Agreement.
(b)	 Eligibility Set Profiles

Collateral Giver, with the consent of the Bank, by checking
the relevant boxes or filling in the relevant lines in Annexes
I and II and initialing each page of Annexes I and II, has
selected certain options, amounts and percentages applicable
to each set of Eligible Securities. If no selection is made with
respect to a given option, amount or percentage, the default
selection, as indicated in Annexes I and II, will apply.
(c)	Annexes

Collateral Giver and the Bank agree to the selections made
in Annexes I and II (as the same may be amended from
time to time in accordance with Section 12 (Amendments)).
Annexes I and II and any other numbered Annexes to this
Agreement form an integral part of this Agreement.

1.	 Appointment and Acceptance of the Bank

3.	 Euroclear System

Collateral Giver appoints the Bank as collateral service agent
to carry out the duties described in this Agreement and to take
any actions incidental to those duties. The Bank accepts such
appointment and consents to act as collateral service agent to
carry out only those duties.

Collateral Giver acknowledges that securities and cash credited
to Collateral Giver’s Account are held in the Euroclear
System pursuant to the Terms and Conditions and the
Operating Procedures.

	 Check as applicable.
	 Collateral Giver, if it has selected the AutoSelect Processing, may not represent more than one Client unless it makes one of the representations under Section 4(a)(v).

1
2

CAISA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP180004

1

Exhibit P-18

4.	Representations
(a)	 Representations of Collateral Giver

Collateral Giver represents to the Bank, as of the date of this
Agreement and as of each date on which a Transaction is
outstanding, that:
(i)	 it is duly organised and existing under the laws of the
jurisdiction of its organisation with full power and
authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to
perform all the duties and obligations to be performed
by it under this Agreement;
(ii)	 the execution, delivery and performance by it of this
Agreement have been duly authorised, in accordance
with all requisite corporate action, and this Agreement
is a legal, valid and binding obligation of it enforceable
in accordance with its terms, except as such terms may
be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws, or
by equitable principles relating to or limiting creditors’
rights generally;
(iii)	 the execution, delivery and performance by it of this
Agreement have been and will be duly authorised by all
necessary governmental and other approvals, including
exchange control approvals;
(iv)	 the execution, delivery, and performance by it of this
Agreement and the transactions contemplated under this
Agreement do not and will not violate or constitute a
default under any agreement by which it is bound, or its
constitutional documents, or any statute, regulation, rule,
order or judgment applicable to it (including any statute,
regulation, rule, order or judgment relating to taxes);
(v)	 it has the power and authority to deliver and transfer the
securities and cash delivered or transferred and to take
any other action hereunder and, if it is a Representative,
each Client has authorised it to execute and deliver this
Agreement and to take all such actions hereunder for
such Client’s benefit; and
(vi)	 if it is a Representative and has selected the AutoSelect
Processing option in one or more sets of Annexes I and
II, either:
(A) (x) it is not acting for the benefit of more than one
Client under this Agreement and (y) it is not acting
through Collateral Giver’s Account for the benefit of
any other client under another collateral allocation
interface service agreement; or
(B) it has received from each such Client or client a
specific authorisation to engage in transactions under
collateral allocation interface service agreements for
the benefit of other clients out of the same Collateral
Giver’s Account.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(b)	 Representations of the Bank

The Bank represents to Collateral Giver, as of the date of this
Agreement and as of each date on which a Transaction is
outstanding, that:
(i)	 it is duly organised and existing under the laws of
Belgium with full power and authority to execute and
deliver this Agreement and to perform all the duties and
obligations to be performed by it under this Agreement;
(ii)	 the execution, delivery and performance by it of this
Agreement have been duly authorised, in accordance
with all required corporate action, and this Agreement
is a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Bank
enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as
such terms may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency
or similar laws, or by equitable principles relating to or
limiting creditors’ rights generally; and
(iii)	 the execution, delivery, and performance of this
Agreement will not violate or constitute a default under
any agreement by which it is bound, or its constitutional
documents, or any Belgian statute, regulation, rule, order
or judgment applicable to it.

5.	Transactions
(a)	 Authority of the Bank to Enter Instructions into the
Euroclear System

Collateral Giver authorises the Bank to enter or cancel
instructions on its behalf into the Euroclear System and to
take all other actions in connection with such instructions in
accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
(b)	 Authority of the Bank to Use AutoSelect

If Collateral Giver has selected the AutoSelect Processing
option in one or more sets of Annexes I and II, it authorises
the Bank to select Securities on its behalf and deliver them
out in accordance with the AutoSelect Methodology, as
described in Chapter 6 (AutoSelect Processing Methodology)
of the CAI Operating Procedures, with respect to AutoSelect
Transactions assigned to the corresponding Eligibility Set(s).
(c)	 AutoSelect acknowledgements

(i)	 Collateral Giver acknowledges that instructions with
respect to AutoSelect Transactions (if any) are being
generated and entered by the Bank on behalf of Collateral
Giver in accordance with the AutoSelect Methodology
and such other procedures consistent therewith as agreed
to from time to time by Collateral Giver and the Bank
and that such instructions are generated and entered only
to the extent Securities are, in accordance with such
procedures, available for allocation and transfer.
(ii)	 Collateral Giver acknowledges that it may enter into
any agreements with the Bank under which AutoSelect
processing is used for transactions in accordance with
the contractual documentation applicable to any of such
agreements.

CAISA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP180005

2

Exhibit P-18

6.	 Bank Fees
Unless otherwise agreed, Collateral Giver agrees to pay to the
Bank all fees and all amounts relating to this Agreement and
as such amounts are set forth in monthly billing statements
sent by the Bank to Collateral Giver in accordance with the
Euroclear Tariff, as in effect from time to time. Amounts
payable by Collateral Giver will be debited from Collateral
Giver’s Account or such other Cash Account as Collateral
Giver may specify by written notice to the Bank from time to
time or, if no such Cash Account has been duly specified, any
Cash Account of Collateral Giver.

7.	 Duties and Liabilities of the Bank
(a)	General

(i)	 The Bank has no obligations except as expressly set out
in this Agreement.
(ii)	 The Bank is not liable to Collateral Giver for any Losses
arising in connection with:
(A)	 any event or matter referred to in paragraphs (i),
(ii) or (iii) of Section 8(a) (Collateral Giver’s
Instructions, Default or Breach) or paragraphs (i)
or (ii) of Section 8(b) (Bank’s Performance) or
Section 9 (Effect of Certain Events and Disputes) of
this Agreement, or Section 12(c) of the Terms and
Conditions; or
(B)	 any act or omission of the Bank in connection with
this Agreement, except in the case of its negligence
or wilful misconduct.
(iii)	 The Bank is not liable to anyone for unforeseeable
Losses, Losses not flowing directly and naturally from
a breach of this Agreement or Losses representing loss
of profit, except in the case of its wilful misconduct and
then only to Collateral Giver.
(iv)	 In the event of any dispute, Collateral Giver bears the
burden of proving negligence or wilful misconduct by
the Bank.
(v)	 The Bank is not liable to anyone for any Losses arising
in connection with this Agreement, or any other related
agreement except, but only to the extent specified in
paragraphs (ii) and (iii) above to Collateral Giver.
(vi)	 Acceptance of securities into the Euroclear System
is governed by the Operating Procedures and not this
Agreement. Acceptance and setting up new securities
for use in the services described in this Agreement is not
part of the services which the Bank agrees to provide
pursuant to this Agreement.
(vii)	All warranties, conditions and other terms implied by
statute or common law are, to the fullest extent permitted
by law, excluded from this Agreement.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(i)	 the title, validity or genuineness of any Security;
(ii)	 the legality of the delivery or transfer of any Security;
(iii)	 the correctness of any financial or other information
derived by the Bank, in connection with its duties under
this Agreement, from any source nominated or approved
by Collateral Giver;
(iv)	 the due authorisation of any person to act on behalf of
Collateral Giver in connection with Eligible Securities
held in Collateral Giver’s Account;
(v)	 the capacity and authority of a Representative to act for
the benefit of any Client;
(vi)	 the characterisation of any Security as a Net Paying
Security or the eligibility of any Security as a Collateral
Security pursuant to any Third Party Arrangements;
(vii)	the validity or enforceability of, or any statement or
representation made by Collateral Giver in connection
with this Agreement or any other related agreement;
(viii)the performance of the obligations of Collateral Giver
under this Agreement or any other related agreement;
(ix)	 an extension of credit in connection with any
Transaction;
(x)	 the settlement of instructions entered into the Euroclear
System; or
(xi)	 the value (or the sufficiency of the value) of any
Securities delivered or transferred.
(c)	 Bank’s Notice and Inquiry

Except as expressly set out in this Agreement, the Bank
will be deemed to have no notice of, and need not inquire
into, any transaction between Collateral Giver (or one or
more of its Clients, if applicable) and any third party to this
Agreement or otherwise or the performance or breach of this
Agreement or any other related agreement.
(d)	 Notices to Bank

(i)	 The Bank may rely on any notice or data from Collateral
Giver under this Agreement and is not liable to anyone
for any Losses arising in connection with:
(A) 	unsigned notices, or the unauthorised signing or
giving of written or oral notices by any person, or
the unauthorised alteration of them or of any other
instrument;
(B) 	the incorrectness or incompleteness of information
in any notice; or
(C) 	the incorrectness or incompleteness of data
transmitted by computer tape or terminal or other
computer facility, unless, and to the extent that,
the Bank actually knows (x) that the notice or data
was not sent by Collateral Giver; (y) of the lack of
authority; or (z) that the information or data was
incorrect.

(b)	 Collateral Giver’s Responsibilities

The Bank makes no representation regarding, need not inquire
into, does not guarantee and is not liable to anyone for any
Losses arising in connection with the following, all of which
are Collateral Giver’s sole responsibility:

CAISA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP180006

3

Exhibit P-18

(ii)	 The Bank is not liable to anyone for any Losses arising
in connection with:
(A)	 any notices sent otherwise than in accordance with
this Agreement;
(B)	 its acting upon oral notice reasonably believed by
it to be from a person acting on behalf of Collateral
Giver on data received over any electronic system
whereby the receiver is able to verify by code or
otherwise with reasonable certainty the identity of
the sender of such communication, even if subsequent
written notices differ from such oral or data notices;
or
(C)	 its acceptance of, and its acting, in its discretion,
upon, notices from Collateral Giver received after
the deadlines set out in the Timetable.
(e)	 AutoSelect Allocation

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

8.	Indemnification
(a)	 Collateral Giver’s Instructions, Default or Breach

Subject to Section 8(e), Collateral Giver will promptly upon
demand by the Bank release, defend, indemnify and hold
harmless each Indemnified Party for and against Losses
or Claims suffered by that Indemnified Party arising in
connection with:
(i)	 the Bank’s execution of instructions based on that
Collateral Giver’s notices;
(ii)	 the Bank’s failure or delay, in whole or in part, to take
any action to be taken under this Agreement or otherwise
to fulfil any of its obligations under this Agreement, to the
extent that such failure or delay arises in connection with
the negligence or willful misconduct of that Collateral
Giver or any Related Party of that Collateral Giver; or
(iii)	 any breach by that Collateral Giver or any Related Party
of that Collateral Giver of any provision of this Agreement
or any law, decree, regulation or order of any government
or governmental body (including any court or tribunal),

The Bank makes no representation that any allocations of
securities or cash generated by AutoSelect in accordance
with this Agreement will represent the optimal allocation
of securities among all AutoSelect Transactions or all
counterparties of Collateral Giver. The Bank is not liable to
anyone for any Losses arising in connection with securities
not being optimally allocated.

except, subject to Section 8(c)(i), Losses or Claims arising out
of the negligence or willful misconduct of the Bank.

(f)	

(b)	 Bank’s Performance

Price Data

The Bank is not liable to anyone for any Losses arising in
connection with any error by, or any incorrect price received
from, any pricing or other information source used by the
Euroclear Operator in its ordinary course of business or
the appropriateness or relative change of any price and
need not determine volatility factors with respect to or the
appropriateness of any price.
(g)	 Force Majeure

If the Bank acts or fails to act (including, without limitation,
fails to receive or deliver, or cause to be received or delivered,
Securities) as a result of or in connection with Force Majeure,
such action or failure is not a breach of this Agreement and
the Bank is not liable to anyone for Losses arising in
connection with such action or failure.

Subject to Section 8(e), Collateral Giver will, promptly upon
demand by the Bank, release, defend, indemnify and hold
harmless each Indemnified Party for and against Losses and
Claims, other than Losses or Claims against which the Bank
is indemnified under Section 8(a), suffered by such Indemnified
Party arising in connection with:
(i)	 any act or omission of the Bank in connection with this
Agreement or the Terms and Conditions; or
(ii)	 the performance of obligations under Belgian or other
applicable law in connection with this Agreement or the
Terms and Conditions,
except, subject to Section 8(c)(ii), Losses or Claims arising
out of the negligence or wilful misconduct of the Bank.
(c)	 Breach and Related Party Claims

(i)	 The exception to Section 8(a) does not apply in respect of:
(A)	 Losses or Claims suffered by the Indemnified Party
arising as a result of any breach as referred to in
Section 8(a)(iii); or
(B)	 Losses caused or Claims made or brought by any
Related Party of the Collateral Giver.
(ii)	 The exception to Section 8(b) does not, in relation
to Collateral Giver apply in respect of Losses caused
or Claims made or brought by any Related Party of
Collateral Giver.

CAISA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP180007

4

Exhibit P-18

(d)	 Burden of Proof

Collateral Giver from whom the Bank is seeking an indemnity
under Section 8(a) or Section 8(b) bears the burden of proving:
(i)	 the negligence or wilful misconduct of the Bank for the
purposes of the exception to Section 8(a) or Section 8(b),
respectively; or
(ii)	 the application, if any, of Section 8(e).
(e)	Limitations

Collateral Giver from whom the Bank is seeking an indemnity
under Section 8(a) or Section 8(b) is not liable in respect of:
(i)	 Losses caused or Claims made or brought by any third
party (other than any Related Party of the party from
whom the Bank is seeking such an indemnity); or
(ii)	 Losses caused by an event or circumstance constituting
Force Majeure and which is beyond the reasonable
control of the party from whom the Bank is seeking such
an indemnity.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The dispute or conflict will be deemed to continue and the
Bank will be entitled to refuse to act or comply until either:
(i)	 the conflicting or adverse claims or demands have been
determined in a court of competent jurisdiction or settled
by agreement among the conflicting parties and/or such a
court; or
(ii)	 the Bank has received security or an indemnity satisfactory
to it sufficient to hold it harmless from and against any
and all Losses which it may incur by reason of taking
any action directly or indirectly in connection with this
Agreement.
The Bank may assume that no disputes exist unless it has
received a copy of a written notice thereof sent by Collateral
Giver.

10.	Termination
9.	 Effect of Certain Events and Disputes
(a)	 Withdrawal of Authorisation or Insolvency

The Bank will, to the extent permitted by applicable law,
cease entering any instructions into the Euroclear System
pursuant to this Agreement as soon as reasonably practicable
after the receipt by the Bank of:
(i)	 any written notice of a withdrawal by Collateral Giver of
its authorisation(s) under Section 5(a) (Authority of the
Bank to Enter Instructions into the Euroclear System); or
(ii)	 any written notice from Collateral Giver that it has filed
for bankruptcy or declared that it is insolvent or bankrupt
or that it has become the subject of any involuntary
proceeding in respect of its insolvency or bankruptcy,
provided that, in each case, the Bank will enter instructions
in accordance with a final order (whether or not subject to
appeal) of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(b)	 Continuing Disputes

In the event of any other (x) dispute between Collateral Giver,
a Client and/or any other person (other than withdrawals of
authorisation, notices of default or filings for or declarations
of insolvency or bankruptcy notified to the Bank pursuant to
Section 9(a)) the Bank may decline to comply with any and
all claims, demands, notices or instructions or to take any
action hereunder with respect to the cash, the Securities,
Collateral Giver’s Account as long as that dispute or conflict
is continuing. The Bank will not be liable for any Losses
arising out of such failure to act or to comply with such
claims, demands, notices or instructions.

(a)	 Termination on Notice

Except as provided in Section 17(e) (Survival), this
Agreement may be terminated by any party hereto on 30
Business Days’ written notice to the other parties. In spite of
any such notice of termination, this Agreement will remain
applicable to any Transactions then outstanding.
(b)	 Immediate Termination

The Bank may terminate this Agreement immediately with
respect to all outstanding Transactions and all proposed
transactions in the event that:
(i)	 any representation made by Collateral Giver in this
Agreement will have been incorrect or untrue in any
material respect when made or repeated or deemed to
have been made or repeated; or
(ii)	 Collateral Giver ceases to be a Participant in the
Euroclear System.
(c)	 Termination on Revocation of Representative’s Authority

If a Representative’s authority to take action hereunder
for the benefit of a Client is revoked by such Client, such
Representative may, by giving written notice (which notice
shall be conclusive evidence of such revocation for the
purposes of this Agreement) to the Bank specifying the
relevant outstanding Transactions, terminate this Agreement
immediately with respect to such outstanding Transactions,
and all such proposed transactions, in each case, as have been,
or are proposed to be, entered into by the Collateral Giver for
the benefit of such Client.

CAISA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP180008

5

Exhibit P-18

In addition, if the Bank receives written notice from a
Representative or its Client that such Representative’s
authority as aforesaid has been revoked by such Client, the
Bank may, in its discretion, by giving notice to Collateral
Giver either:
(i)	 terminate this Agreement immediately with respect to all
outstanding Transactions and all proposed transactions;
or
(ii)	 terminate this Agreement immediately with respect to
such outstanding Transactions and all such proposed
Transactions, in each case, as have been, or are proposed
to be, entered into for the benefit of such Client.
(d)	 Delivery after Termination

Upon the effectiveness of any termination of this Agreement
as aforesaid, or as soon thereafter as is reasonably practicable,
the Bank will, unless otherwise directed by Collateral Giver
and subject to Section 9 (Effect of Certain Events and
Disputes) of this Agreement and subject to Section 14(d) of
the Terms and Conditions, cause to be delivered to Collateral
Giver any amounts of cash and securities then credited to
Collateral Giver’s Account.

11.	Confidentiality
The Bank represents to Collateral Giver that information which
reveals or relates to, or which would permit the determination
of the Euroclear securities positions of, or Transactions by,
Collateral Giver and/or its Client, respectively (including any
future or planned securities positions or transactions), or the
type and amount of any Collateral Securities, will only be
used by the Bank in connection with the operation of the
Euroclear System or the provision of banking services to
Collateral Giver, as the case may be.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Bank may, where it is
bound by the law of any territory or country or pursuant
to any requirement of any regulatory body, disclose any
information or produce any document in its possession
or control. If the Bank discloses information concerning
Collateral Giver and/or its Client (if applicable) to any such
regulatory body, the Bank will inform Collateral Giver, as
appropriate, unless the Bank may not do so or has been
requested not to do so by such regulatory authority.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

12.	Amendments
(a)	 CAI Terms and Conditions

These CAI Terms and Conditions may be amended or
modified only by a written agreement executed by the parties.
An amendment under this Section 12 (a) is effective when the
Bank notifies Collateral Giver that it is effective.
(b)	 Unilateral Amendment

The Bank will have the unilateral right to amend Annexes
I and II to include or exclude any security or securities
from Eligible Securities of one or more types or categories
of security and at any time, upon notice to and without the
agreement of Collateral Giver.
Collateral Giver will have the unilateral right to amend
Annexes I and II to exclude from Eligible Securities, for a
stated period or until a subsequent notice of Collateral Giver
is given to the Bank, one or more types or categories of
security, upon notice to and with the consent of the Bank.
An amendment requested by Collateral Giver to amend
Annexes I and II to include any security or securities from
Eligible Securities of one or more types or categories of
security, must be subject to a written agreement executed by
the parties.
The Bank may, upon notice to Collateral Giver, amend
Annex II at any time.
Collateral Giver may, upon notice to and with the consent
from the Bank, amend Annex II.
Any amendment under this Section 12(b) must be in writing,
which may include a facsimile, and will be effective when
the Bank notifies Collateral Giver that it is effective.
(c)	 CAI Operating Procedures

The Bank may amend the CAI Operating Procedures at any
time by notice to Collateral Giver. Collateral Giver will be
deemed to have agreed to and accepted any such amendment
(i) effective immediately, if the amendment does not adversely
affect Collateral Giver or (ii) effective 30 Business Days after
the Bank sends it, for any other amendment.
(d)	 No Waivers

No waiver, or acceptance of performance other than as
provided in this Agreement, on the part of any party hereto
will be a waiver, or acceptance of such performance, in the
future. The Bank’s acceptance, in its discretion, of any notice
or notices from Collateral Giver received after the relevant
deadline set out in the Timetable does not oblige it to accept
any such notice so received in the future.

CAISA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP180009

6

Exhibit P-18

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

13.	Applicable law; Jurisdiction

16.	Service of Process

This Agreement and any dispute or claim arising out of
or in connection with it or its subject matter or formation
(including non-contractual disputes or claims)will be
governed by and construed in accordance with English law.

Collateral Giver consents to the service of any and all process,
notices or other documents which may be served in any such
suit, action or proceeding either:

Collateral Giver irrevocably agrees for the exclusive benefit
of the Bank that the Courts of England are to have jurisdiction
to settle any disputes or claims which may arise out of or
in connection with this Agreement or its subject matter or
formation (including non-contractual disputes or claims) and
that, accordingly, any suit, action or proceeding arising out
of or in connection with this Agreement or its subject matter
or formation (including non-contractual disputes or claims)
may be brought in such Courts. Nothing contained in this
Section 14 will limit the right of the Bank to take any such
suit, action or proceeding against Collateral Giver or both in
any other court of competent jurisdiction nor will the taking
of such suit, action or proceeding in one or more jurisdictions
preclude the taking of any such suit, action or proceeding in
any other jurisdiction by the Bank whether concurrently or not,
to the extent permitted by the law of such other jurisdiction.
The Collateral Giver waives (and agrees not to raise) any
objection, on the ground of forum non conveniens or any
other ground, to the taking of proceedings by the Bank in any
court in accordance with this Section 14. The Collateral Giver
also agrees that a judgment against it in the Bank’s favour in
proceedings brought in any jurisdiction in accordance with
this Section 14 shall be conclusive and binding upon it and
may be enforced in any other jurisdiction.

14.	Waiver of Immunity
Collateral Giver waives, to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law, all immunity (on the basis of sovereignty or
otherwise) from jurisdiction, attachment (both before and
after judgment) and execution to which it might otherwise
be entitled in any suit, action or proceeding in the Courts of
England or of any other country or jurisdiction relating in any
way to this Agreement and agrees that it will not raise, claim
or cause to be pleaded any such immunity at or in respect of
any such suit, action or proceeding.

15.	Domicile
Collateral Giver elects domicile in Belgium at the Bank for
the purpose of any suit, action or proceeding in Belgium
arising out of or relating to this Agreement and will appoint
promptly on request from the Bank authorised agents in
London for the purpose of receiving service of process in any
such suit, action or proceeding in England.

(i)	 by mailing a copy thereof to its address referred to in
Section 17(a) (Notices) by registered or certified mail;
(ii)	 by serving a copy thereof at its domicile in Belgium
or upon any agent for service appointed as provided in
Section 15 (Domicile) (whether or not the election of
domicile or the appointment of such agent for service
of process will for any reason prove to be ineffective
or such agent will fail to accept or acknowledge such
service) and mailing a copy thereof to its address referred
to in 17(a) (Notices) by registered or certified mail; or
(iii)	 in any other manner permitted by applicable law.
Collateral Giver waives all claims of error by reason of any
service in accordance with this Section 17 and agrees that
such service (x) will be deemed in every respect effective
service of process upon it and (y) will be taken and held to be
valid personal service upon and personal delivery to it.

17.	Miscellaneous
(a)	Notices

Unless otherwise specified herein, notices required by this
Agreement must be in writing (which will include, without
limitation, facsimile, EUCLID, EasyWay or SWIFT).
Collateral Giver agrees that any notices given under this
Agreement will be sent to the Bank to the attention of
‘Collateral Management Administration’ at the address set
forth in Exhibit 1 or to the attention of such other contact
at such other address as the Bank may from time to time
designate to Collateral Giver in writing. The Bank is not
required to comply with and is not deemed to have any notice
or knowledge of any notice sent by any Client. Any notice
to Collateral Giver authorised or required by this Agreement
will be addressed to the persons indicated at the addresses set
forth in Exhibit 1 or to such other person or persons as the
Collateral Giver may from time to time designate to the Bank
in writing.
Chapter 3 (Transaction Processing) of the CAI Operating
Procedures contains the Timetable setting out the deadlines
by which the various notices must be received by the Bank
for processing. The Bank may, in its sole discretion, attempt
to process notices received or validated after the deadlines
set forth in the Timetable. Notices will be effective from the
time they are actually received by the intended recipient by
telephone, facsimile, EUCLID, EasyWay or SWIFT or any
other means designated by the Bank.

CAISA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP180010

7

Exhibit P-18

In any situation in which this Agreement requires written
notice, the Bank may but is not required to act on oral notice
reasonably believed by it to be notice of a person acting on
behalf of Collateral Giver or, for the purposes of Section
10(c) (Termination on Revocation of Representative’s
Authority), a Client or a person purporting to be a Client,
as the case may be, or on data received over any electronic
system whereby the receiver is able to verify by code or
otherwise with reasonable certainty the identity of the sender
of such communication. Collateral Giver shall confirm in
writing any oral or electronic data notice. Failure to confirm
in writing or any conflict between subsequent written notices
and oral or data notices will not affect the authority of
any acts taken or omitted by the Bank pursuant to oral or
electronic data notices. The Bank reserves the right to record
telephone conversations with Collateral Giver and to refer to
such recordings in the event of any dispute. Nothing in this
paragraph permits oral amendments to this Agreement.
(b)	 Binding Agreement; Assignment and Novation

The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and
inure to the benefit of the Bank and Collateral Giver and
their respective successors and assigns (including any trustee,
conservators or other officers of the court in any bankruptcy
or insolvency proceeding), subject to the next paragraph.
The rights and obligations of each party under this Agreement
may not be assigned or novated without the written consent of
the other parties and any assignment or novation without such
consent will be null and void.
(c)	Severability

Each provision and agreement in this Agreement will be
separate from any other provision or agreement in this
Agreement and will be enforceable, notwithstanding the
unenforceability of any other provision or agreement.
(d)	Representatives

Despite the fact that any Representative is acting for the
benefit of any Client in connection with this Agreement:
(i)	 that Representative will have and be entitled to assert
any claim, counterclaim or defence in connection with
this Agreement or the Bank’s performance of services
under this Agreement only to the extent that it has or is
entitled to assert that claim, counterclaim or defence in
its capacity as a principal party to this Agreement;
(ii)	 that Representative shall be liable for the performance
of all its obligations and for all its indemnities given
under this Agreement, including but not limited to the
indemnity contained in Section 8 (Indemnification), as a
principal party to this Agreement;
(iii)	 no Client is a party to this Agreement and no Client
will have any rights under or in connection with this
Agreement against the Bank; and

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(iv)	 the Bank will have obligations under or in connection
with this Agreement only to Collateral Giver and will not
be liable to any Client under or in connection with this
Agreement in any manner whatsoever (including, without
limitation, in contract or in tort).
(e)	Survival

All releases, limitations of liability and indemnifications
provided in this Agreement will survive the termination of
this Agreement.
(f)	

Headings and References

(i)	 The headings and captions in this Agreement are for
reference only and will not affect the construction or
interpretation of any of its provisions.
(ii)	 Notwithstanding the use of expressions ‘Collateral
Giver’, ‘Collateral Giver’s Account’, and ‘collateralised’,
nothing in this Agreement shall create, or shall be
construed to create, in favour of any party hereto any
mortgage, charge, lien, pledge, encumbrance or other
security interest over or in any Collateral Securities.

18.	Glossary
References in this Agreement to the singular include the
plural, and vice versa.
The following words, as used in this Agreement, have the
following meanings:
‘Agreement’ has the meaning set forth in the first sentence
of this Agreement.
‘AutoSelect’ means an electronic processing module owned
by the Bank designed to facilitate the selection of securities
for Triparty Agreements.
‘AutoSelect Methodology’ means the method by which
the AutoSelect processing module selects securities to
be transferred between Collateral Giver’s Account and
counterparty accounts, as described in Chapter 6 (AutoSelect
Processing Methodology) of the CAI Operating Procedures.
‘AutoSelect Processing’ means an option in Annexes I and
II which determines whether or not Collateral Giver may use
AutoSelect processing of Transactions in an Eligibility Set
under this Agreement.
‘AutoSelect Transaction’ means a Transaction that is
processed by the Bank using AutoSelect.
‘Bank’ means Euroclear Bank, and its successors and assigns,
as collateral service agent under this Agreement.

CAISA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP180011

8

Exhibit P-18

‘Business Day’ means a day when the operation of the
Euroclear System takes place.
‘Claims’ means any claim, demand, action, investigation or
administrative proceeding made or brought by an Collateral
Giver or any Related Party of that Collateral Giver in
connection with this Agreement.
‘Client’ means each person other than Collateral Giver for
whose benefit Collateral Giver has entered into, or will enter
into, this Agreement
‘Collateral Giver’ has the meaning set forth in the first
sentence of this Agreement.
‘Collateral Giver’s Account’ means a Securities Clearance
Account in the Euroclear System in the name of Collateral
Giver and the Cash Account in the Euroclear System in the
name of Collateral Giver associated therewith, the number
of which is indicated in the first sentence of this Agreement,
which will be used only for Securities and Cash, respectively,
with respect to Transactions and which in each case will be
designated a ‘client account’ if Collateral Giver has entered
into this Agreement for the benefit of one or more Clients.
‘Collateral Securities’ means, with respect to any Transaction:
•	 the Eligible Securities credited with respect to such
Transaction to the relevant Collateral Taker’s Account
as of the relevant Initiation Date (as defined in the CAI
Operating Procedures), increased or decreased by any
Securities credited or debited, as the case may be, to
of from that Collateral Taker’s Account from time to
time with respect to such Transaction pursuant to this
Agreement; or
•	 Equivalent Securities thereto.
‘Collateral Taker’s Account’ means the bank account opened
in or outside the Euroclear System, whose number is indicated
in Annexes I and II, which will be used for Securities with
respect to Transactions under this Agreement.
‘CAI Operating Procedures’ means the collateral allocation
interface operating procedures, as amended from time to time,
which, together with the CAI Terms and Conditions, form one
contractual agreement.
‘CAI Terms and Conditions’ means these collateral allocation
interface terms and conditions, which, together with the CAI
Operating Procedures, form one contractual agreement.
‘Eligibility Set’ means the Eligible Securities identified in each
set of Annexes I and II, as such Annexes may be amended
from time to time, and the options, amounts and percentages
selected in the corresponding set of Annexes I and II, as such
Annexes may be amended from time to time.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

‘Eligible Securities’ means on any date any of the Eurocleareligible securities of a type which Collateral Giver has selected,
with the consent of the Bank, will be eligible as of such date
to become Collateral Securities for a Transaction by their
inclusion in the applicable Eligibility Set in Annexes I and
II, as such Annexes may be limited by certain options in the
corresponding Eligibility Set of Annexes I and II.
‘Equivalent Securities’ means, with respect to any
Transaction:
•	 securities of the same issuer, being of an identical type,
nominal value, description and amount to the Collateral
Securities with respect to such Transaction; or
•	 in relation to Collateral Securities which are partly paid
or have been converted, subdivided, consolidated, made
the subject of a takeover, capitalisation issue, rights
issue, redenomination or event similar to any of the
foregoing, the following:
-	 in the case of conversion, subdivision or
consolidation, securities equivalent to the securities
into which the Collateral Securities have been
converted, subdivided or consolidated;
-	 in the case of takeover, securities equivalent to the
consideration or alternative consideration received;
-	 in the case of a call on partly paid securities,
securities equivalent to the paid-up securities;
-	 in the case of a capitalisation issue, securities
equivalent to the Collateral Securities together with
the securities allotted by way of bonus thereon;
-	 in the case of a rights issue, securities equivalent to
the Collateral Securities together with the securities
allotted in respect thereof;
-	 in the event that income in the form of securities,
or a certificate which may at a future date be
exchanged for securities or an entitlement to acquire
securities is distributed, securities equivalent to
the Collateral Securities together with securities or
a certificate or an entitlement equivalent to those
allotted;
-	 in the case of a redenomination into euro (and a
related renominalisation, if applicable), securities of
the same issuer, being of an identical type, nominal
value, description and amount to the redenominated
(and renominalised, if applicable) Collateral
Securities; and
-	 in the case of any event similar to any of the
foregoing, securities equivalent to the Collateral
Securities together with or replaced by securities or
other property equivalent to that received in respect
of such Collateral Securities resulting from such
event.
‘Euroclear-eligible securities’ means, at any time, any of the
securities accepted at that time for deposit into the Euroclear
System in accordance with the Operating Procedures.

CAISA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP180012

9

Exhibit P-18

‘Euroclear Operator’ means Euroclear Bank, and its
successors and assigns, acting in the capacity of operator of
the Euroclear System.
‘Euroclear System’ means the clearance system for
internationally traded securities operated under contract by the
Euroclear Operator.
‘Euroclear Tariff’ means the Euroclear Tariff folder (which
includes a general fees brochure and specific tariff sheets)
distributed to all Participants, as may be amended from time
to time.
‘Force Majeure’ means any event or circumstance beyond the
reasonable control of the Bank, including, without limitation,
war, insurrection, riot, civil commotion, act of God, accident,
fire, water damage, explosion, mechanical breakdown,
computer or systems failure or other equipment failure, failure
or malfunctioning of any communications media for whatever
reason (whether or not such media are made available to
Collateral Giver by the Bank), interruption (partial or total) of
power supply or other utility or service, strike or other labour
stoppage (partial or total) and any law, decree, regulation or
order of any government or governmental body (including
any court or tribunal).
‘Indemnified Party’ means each of the Bank, its officers,
directors and employees.
‘Intended Transaction Amount’ means, with respect to a
Transaction, the amount indicated as such in Collateral
Giver’s initiation notice:
•	 increased by the amount proposed to be transferred from
Collateral Giver’s Account to Collateral Taker’s Account
in one or more matching notices of Transaction-size
increase; and
•	 decreased by the amount proposed to be transferred from
Collateral Taker’s Account to Collateral Giver’s Account
in one or more matching notices of Transaction-size
decrease or pursuant to a closing.
‘Internet Report’ means the internet report made available at
the website of the Euroclear System by the Bank as described
in Chapter 5 (Reporting by the Bank) of the CAI Operating
Procedures to recipients subscribing for the service in a
separate subscription agreement.
‘Losses’ means, in relation to any person, any losses,
liabilities, obligations, fines, penalties, damages, taxes (other
than taxes on the overall income of such person), costs, expenses
(to the extent reasonable and other than ordinary administrative
expenses) or fees (including reasonable counsel’s fees and
accountant’s fees) of any kind or nature whatsoever at any time.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

‘Manual Transaction’ means a Transaction that is not an
AutoSelect Transaction.
‘Net Paying Security’ means any security with respect to
which any interest, dividend or other distribution payable by
the issuer to Collateral Giver is required by law to be paid
subject to withholding or deduction for or on account of taxes
or duties of any nature imposed, levied, collected, withheld or
assessed by any authority having power to tax.
‘Operating Procedures’ means the Operating Procedures of
the Euroclear System established in accordance with Section
3 of the Terms and Conditions, as such Operating Procedures
may be amended from time to time.
‘Related Party’ in respect of an Collateral Giver means any
agent (including employees of such agent), employee, client
(including Clients) or any other person for whose benefit or
on whose behalf that Collateral Giver acts or who acts for the
benefit of or on behalf of that Collateral Giver.
‘Representative’ means Collateral Giver if it has entered into,
or will enter into, this Agreement for the benefit of one or
more Clients.
‘Securities’ means Eligible Securities or Collateral Securities.
‘Settlement Currency’ at any time means any of the currencies
accepted at that time in the Euroclear System as a Settlement
Currency in accordance with the Operating Procedures.
‘Terms and Conditions’ means the Terms and Conditions
Governing Use of Euroclear, as amended from time to time.
‘Timetable’ means the table of deadlines set forth in Chapter 3
(Transaction Processing) of the CAI Operating Procedures,
as amended from time to time.
‘Third Party Arrangement’ means any contractual arrangements
and agreements between Collateral Giver and any third party
to this Agreement.
‘Transaction’ means any provision of collateral governed by
this Agreement.
‘Transaction Currency’ means, with respect to a Transaction,
the currency in which the Intended Transaction Amount is
denominated.

CAISA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP180013

10

Exhibit P-18

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

19.	Effectiveness
(A) This Agreement will become binding upon Collateral
Giver and the Bank if:
(i)	 the Bank has executed this Agreement, previously
signed by Collateral Giver; and
(ii)	 the Bank has received from Collateral Giver the
duly authorised and executed documentation relating
to the opening of Collateral Giver’s Account (if
applicable); and
(iii)	 the Bank has notified Collateral Giver that the
Agreement is effective.
(B)	 Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (A) above,
this Agreement will also become binding upon Collateral
Giver and the Bank if:
(i)	 the Collateral Giver and the Bank have executed
the Form of Agreement RG 810 specifying (a) the
Collateral Allocation Interface Service Agreement
under ‘Specific services’ or (b) all collateral
management service agreements under ‘All services’
or such other form and in such manner as may be
specified by the Bank; and
(ii)	 the Collateral Giver have duly executed Annexes I
and II and the provisions of Sections 2(a) and (b) of
this Agreement are complied with in relation to such
Annexes; and
(iii)	 the Bank has received from Collateral Giver the
duly authorised and executed documentation relating
to the opening of the Collateral Giver’s Account (if
applicable); and
(iv)	 the Bank has notified Collateral Giver that the
Agreement is effective.

20.	Counterparts
This Agreement may be executed in any number of
counterparts, each of which will be deemed to be an original,
and all of which together will be one agreement.

CAISA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP180014

11

Exhibit P-18

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Exhibit 1 - Addresses
Euroclear Bank SA/NV
1 Boulevard du Roi Albert II
B-1210 Brussels
Belgium
Attn.: Triparty Client Service
Fax: +32 2 326 2502

Collateral Giver
Name:	

____________________________________________________________

Address:	 ____________________________________________________________
	

____________________________________________________________

Attn:	

____________________________________________________________

Dept: 	

____________________________________________________________

Fax:	

____________________________________________________________

Tel: 	

____________________________________________________________

CAISA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP180015

12

Exhibit P-18

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The parties to this Agreement have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorised corporate officers as of
_________________________________

Collateral Giver
By: 	

____________________________________________________________

	Name: ______________________________________________________
	Title:________________________________________________________
By:	

____________________________________________________________

	Name: ______________________________________________________
	Title: _______________________________________________________

Euroclear Bank
By:	

____________________________________________________________

	Name: ______________________________________________________
	Title: _______________________________________________________
By:	

____________________________________________________________

	Name: ______________________________________________________
	Title: _______________________________________________________

CAISA – Terms and Conditions

August 2015

EXP180016

13

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

© 2015 Euroclear Bank SA/NV, 1 Boulevard du Roi Albert II, 1210 Brussels, Belgium – Tel: +32 (0)2 326 1211 –
RPM Brussels number 0429 875 591 – Euroclear is the marketing name for the Euroclear System, Euroclear plc,
Euroclear SA/NV and their affiliates.
Euroclear is a carbon neutral company – PAS2060 certified in 2015

LG081

Exhibit P-18

www.euroclear.com

EXP180017

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV
Exemption Statement

Euroclear Bank SA/NV (“Euroclear Bank”) is filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (the “Commission”) an amendment to its previously filed Form CA-1 1 to modify
an existing exemption from clearing agency registration (“Modification Application”) pursuant
to Section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) 2 and Rule 17Ab2-1
thereunder. 3
On February 11, 1998, the Commission issued an order exempting Euroclear Bank’s predecessor
as operator of the Euroclear System, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York (Brussels
Office) from registration as a clearing agency. 4 On January 4, 2001, the Commission issued a
modified exemption order to Euroclear Bank as the successor operator of the Euroclear System 5
(as modified, the “Existing Exemption Order”). 6
The Existing Exemption Order enables Euroclear Bank to perform the functions of a clearing
agency with respect to transactions involving Eligible U.S. Government Securities for its U.S.
Participants subject to certain limitations without registering as a clearing agency. 7 Specifically,
the Existing Exemption Order authorizes Euroclear Bank to provide clearance, settlement and
collateral management services for transactions in Eligible U.S. Government Securities by U.S.
Participants (the “U.S. Government Securities Clearing Agency Activities”). The Existing
1

See Commission File No. 600-01.

2

15 U.S.C. 78q-1.

3

17 C.F.R. 240.17Ab2-1.

4

Self-Regulatory Organizations; Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, Brussels Office, as Operator of
the Euroclear System; Order Approving Application for Exemption from Registration as a Clearing Agency, 63 Fed.
Reg. 8232 (Feb. 18, 1998) (“1998 Exemption Order”). As used herein, the term “Euroclear System” is used to
describe the collection of securities settlement and related services that have been offered by Euroclear Bank or its
predecessor since 1968, and the assets, means and rights related to such services. All services performed by
Euroclear Bank that relate to securities settlement and custody are part of the “Euroclear System.”
5

On Dec. 31, 2000, the business and related assets and liabilities of the Euroclear System vested in Euroclear Bank
and virtually all of the staff and systems associated with the Euroclear System were transferred to Euroclear Bank.
6

Self-Regulatory Organizations; Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, Brussels Office, as Operator of the Euroclear
System and Euroclear Bank, S.A.; Order Approving Application to Modify an Existing Exemption Order from
Clearing Agency Registration, 66 Fed. Reg. 819 (Jan. 4, 2001) (“2001 Exemption Order”).
7

See 1998 Exemption Order, 63 Fed. Reg. at 8239. As used herein, the term “Eligible U.S. Government Security”
refers to the following: (i) “government securities” as defined in Section 3(a)(42) of the Exchange Act that are
eligible for transfer or processing on Fedwire, except that it shall not include any foreign-targeted U.S. government
or agency securities or securities issued or guaranteed by the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development or any other similar international organization; (ii) mortgage-backed pass-through securities that are
guaranteed by the Government National Mortgage Association (“GNMA”); and (iii) collateralized mortgage
obligations whose underlying securities are Fedwire-eligible U.S. government securities or GNMA guaranteed
mortgage-backed pass-through securities and which are depository eligible securities. As used herein, the term
“U.S. Participant” refers to any Euroclear System participant having a U.S. residence, based upon the location of
its executive office or principal place of business, including, without limitation, (i) a U.S. bank (as defined by
Section 3(a)(6) of the Exchange Act), (ii) a foreign branch of a U.S. bank or U.S.-registered broker-dealer and
(iii) any broker-dealer registered as such with the Commission even if such broker-dealer does not have a U.S.
residence.

118644043

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Exemption Order relates only to the offering of U.S. Government Securities Clearing Agency
Activities, and does not relate to Euroclear Bank’s other activities in securities other than
Eligible U.S. Government Securities or the offering of services to participants that are not U.S.
Participants. 8 The Existing Exemption Order also provides that Euroclear Bank may request that
the exemption be broadened to provide securities processing services for securities other than
Eligible U.S. Government Securities. 9
Euroclear Bank requests that the Commission broaden Euroclear Bank’s Existing Exemption
Order to permit Euroclear Bank to offer specified securities processing services for Equity
Securities 10 issued by U.S. Issuers 11 (“U.S. Equities” or “U.S. Equity Securities”) to the extent
that Euroclear Bank performs the functions of a clearing agency with respect to such U.S. Equity
Securities for U.S. Participants. As described in greater detail below, Euroclear Bank proposes
to allow eligible U.S. Participants to receive and use U.S. Equity Securities in their EB
Accounts 12 for collateral management purposes (the “U.S. Equities Proposal”).
Euroclear Bank therefore requests that the Commission, on the basis of the Modification
Application, modify the Existing Exemption Order (the “Modification Request”) as follows:
•

continue the authority granted to Euroclear Bank in the 2001 Exemption Order to
provide clearance, settlement and collateral management services for its U.S.
Participants’ transactions in Eligible U.S. Government Securities without
registering as a clearing agency with the Commission on substantially the same
conditions applicable to such U.S. Government Securities Clearing Agency
Activity under the Existing Exemption Order; and

•

grant to Euroclear Bank the authority to provide, through accounts held at
Euroclear Bank, clearing agency services (such as certain central securities
depository services 13 and collateral management services) for its U.S.
Participants’ use of U.S. Equity Securities in support of collateral obligations
utilizing the collateral management services provided by Euroclear Bank,

8

See 62 Fed. Reg. 26833, 26835 n.16 (May 15, 1997); see also 1998 Exemption Order, 63 Fed. Reg. at 8234, 8239.

9

See 1998 Exemption Order, 63 Fed. Reg. at 8239.

10

As used herein, the term “Equity Security” refers to an instrument that represents a direct ownership in a
company, such as a stock, share, certificate of interest or participation in any profit sharing agreement,
preorganization certificate of subscription, voting trust certificate or certificate of deposit for an equity security,
limited partnership interest, interest in a joint venture or certificate of interest in a business trust. However, the term
“Equity Security” does not include interests in structured finance vehicles such as limited partnerships, business
trusts or similar arrangements that have no independent operations and are used solely as special purpose financing
vehicles.
11

As used herein, the term “U.S. Issuer” refers to an issuer organized or incorporated under the laws of any state of
the United States, territory thereof, or the District of Columbia.
12

As used herein, the term “EB Account” refers to securities accounts and current cash accounts of Euroclear Bank
participants (“EB Participants”) on the books of Euroclear Bank.
13

As used herein, the term “central securities depository services” has the meaning set forth in 17 C.F.R.
240.17Ad-22(a)(2).

2

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

including U.S. Participants’ receipt and delivery of U.S. Equity Securities through
dedicated accounts at Euroclear Bank related to the provision of inventory
management services (“IMS”) by the joint venture with DTCC-Euroclear Global
Collateral Ltd. (“DEGCL”), without registering as a clearing agency with the
Commission and subject only to the conditions specified below.
Throughout the Modification Application, any references to the combined scope of activities
included in the U.S. Equities Clearing Agency Activities (as defined below) and the U.S.
Government Securities Clearing Agency Activities are generally referred to as the “Clearing
Agency Activities.”
Euroclear Bank, as an international central securities depository (“ICSD”), is a well-known
global provider of clearance, settlement, collateral management and related services that provide
EB Participants with a means of acquiring, holding, transferring and pledging security
entitlements by electronic book-entry on its records outside of the United States, either free of
payment or against payment, in multiple currencies. Euroclear Bank is organized under the laws
of the country of Belgium and has its headquarters in Brussels, Belgium.
As described in Exhibit A and Exhibit D, Euroclear Bank is part of the Euroclear Group of
companies 14 that provide critical market infrastructure by offering clearing agency and related
services as central securities depositories (“CSDs”) to the domestic markets in Belgium,
Netherlands, France, England and Ireland, Sweden and Finland (collectively with Euroclear
Bank, the “Euroclear Group (I)CSDs”). The Euroclear Group (I)CSDs are subsidiaries of
Euroclear SA/NV (“ESA”), where control and direction of the Euroclear Group strategic
decisions is vested. In 2015, the Euroclear Group CSDs and Euroclear Bank had assets under
custody of €27.5 trillion, turnover equivalent to €674.7 trillion and a settlement volume of
190.7 million netted transactions. Euroclear Group’s collateral management platform, the
Collateral Highway, processed collateralized transactions in 2015 for an amount of €1.068
trillion on a daily basis.
Generally all of the Clearing Agency Activities of Euroclear Bank are and will be performed by
Euroclear Bank in its European locations. 15 ESA provides common services to Euroclear Bank
and other affiliated companies of the Euroclear Group. ESA maintains intercompany agreements
with Euroclear Bank setting forth respective services and obligations.
As further described below, the U.S. Equities Proposal would permit U.S. Participants in the
Euroclear System to give and receive U.S. Equity Securities as collateral in special collateral and
related accounts at Euroclear Bank, using Euroclear Bank’s collateral management services
(“EB-CMS”). Euroclear Bank or its predecessor has provided its EB-CMS to EB Participants,
including U.S. Participants, since 1993. Since its introduction, the EB-CMS has provided a
robust, well-known framework for exchanging collateral to fulfill bilateral obligations between
central banks and their counterparty commercial banks, central counterparties (“CCPs”) and
14

See Exhibit D-1 (Organizational Chart).

15

Some operational services are provided by Euroclear Bank’s Hong Kong and Krakow branches. For a description
of the services provided by the Hong Kong and Krakow branches, please refer to Exhibit I.

3

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

their members, and many other of the world’s largest and most active banks, brokers and dealers
as well as treasury management functions of large qualified corporate entities (collectively,
“EB-CMS Users”).
As described in Section I.C.2 below, U.S. Participants would not be permitted to use U.S. Equity
Securities for any other purpose in Euroclear Bank, 16 including for any settlement and custody
activity unrelated to such collateral activity. The EB-CMS is described below and in the
narrative responses and documents provided as attachments to Exhibit E, Exhibit J and Exhibit P
of this Modification Request.
This remainder of this Exhibit S is organized in three parts:

I.

•

Part I: Description of Proposed Modification to Existing Exemption Order;

•

Part II: Policy Considerations; and

•

Part III: Exemption Order Request and Conditions.

Description of Proposed Modification to Existing Exemption Order
A.

Description of Euroclear Bank Existing Operations

The securities settlement system operated by Euroclear Bank is referred to as the “Euroclear
System,” which has been in operation since 1968. As described elsewhere in the Modification
Application, 17 Euroclear Bank offers settlement and related services to EB Participants,
including settlement services for over-the-counter (“OTC”) transactions and certain exchange
transactions and asset servicing. The terms and conditions applicable to the EB Accounts
(“Euroclear System Contracts”) are governed by Belgian law. 18
Euroclear Bank also offers to qualified EB Participants the option to receive certain ancillary
services, complementing EB Participants’ use of the settlement and custody services. These
optional services consist of securities lending and borrowing services, certain credit and related
banking services, collateral management services and inventory management services.
Each such optional service is subject to contractual terms and conditions that are unique to that
service (which may be governed by Belgian law or another law, as specified in such contracts)
and which are separate from the Euroclear System Contracts. These services utilize the EB
Accounts (including specific types of EB Accounts dedicated to collateral management, as
16

U.S. Participants would only be able to use U.S. Equity Securities in limited default situations. See infra
Sections I.C.1 and I.C.2.
17

See Exhibit J.

18

See Terms and Conditions Governing Use of Euroclear (“Terms and Conditions”) and the Operating Procedures
of the Euroclear System (“Operating Procedures”) and additional contractual documentation referenced therein.
EB Participants are bound by the Terms and Conditions upon signing an agreement to participate in the Euroclear
System. Any dispute arising under the Terms and Conditions may be submitted to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of
the Brussels courts.

4

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

described below) and the settlement processes and infrastructure that are used by Euroclear Bank
to provide the primary settlement and custody services.
1.

Collateral Management Services

Euroclear Bank currently offers collateral management services to its participants that operate as
described generally in Exhibit J. 19
These services permit EB Participants who are party to bilateral arrangements 20 that require the
posting of collateral by one party to the other in order to secure a credit exposure arising under
such arrangements, to deliver, receive and manage such collateral through EB Accounts.
To make use of the collateral management services in Euroclear Bank, the relevant EB
Participants enter into an agreement with Euroclear Bank to provide the collateral management
services (an “EB-CMS Services Agreement”). 21 Collateral is transferred from an EB Account
of the collateral giver into a type of EB Account dedicated to EB-CMS (a “Collateral
Account”) 22 held by a collateral taker. To execute such transfers, instructions are generated by
EB-CMS and such instructions are then processed by Euroclear Bank’s settlement platform,
subject to the same protocols and validation rules that apply to settlement activities in EB
Accounts.
2.

Services to U.S. Participants in U.S. Eligible Government Securities and
U.S. Equities

Pursuant to the 1998 Exemption Order, Euroclear Bank began offering settlement and related
services in Eligible U.S. Government Securities to U.S. Participants. Euroclear Bank also offers
its services to U.S. Participants in securities that are not subject to a Commission exemption
order.
Subsequent to the 1998 Exemption Order, Euroclear Bank began offering settlement and related
services in U.S Equities. Following discussions with the Commission staff, Euroclear Bank
voluntarily limited its settlement services for U.S Equity Securities to EB Participants that did
not qualify as “U.S. participants” as defined by the Commission in the 1998 Exemption Order
(“non-U.S. Participants”).
As part of its contractual documentation with its participants, Euroclear Bank prohibits any U.S.
Participant from holding U.S. Equities in its EB Account(s) for any purpose (“Current Equities

19

See generally 2015 EB Disclosure Report, at 13-14. Although Euroclear Bank’s collateral management services
utilize the settlement processes and infrastructure run by Euroclear Bank, the collateral management services are
subject to separate contractual documentation and service-specific procedures.
20

It is also possible for an EB Participant to act as custodian for a party to such bilateral arrangements.

21

See Exhibit P.

22

As used herein, the term “Collateral Account” refers to any securities or cash account at Euroclear Bank used to
receive collateral pursuant to an EB-CMS Services Agreement.

5

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Restrictions”). 23 Automated systems protocols and control procedures are implemented in
Euroclear Bank to enforce these Current Equities Restrictions. The systems protocols consist of
coded validation rules that are part of Euroclear Bank’s fully automated and standard processes
that run prior to the settlement of any securities movement to/from an EB Account. These
arrangements regarding U.S. Equities held in the Euroclear System were discussed with
Commission staff prior to implementation.
Consequently, EB Participants that qualify as U.S. Participants cannot currently hold, give or
receive U.S. Equities in Euroclear Bank.
B.

Introduction of DTCC-Euroclear Global Collateral Services

Beginning in September 2016, new and enhanced regulatory requirements (“New Collateral
Regulations”) are leading derivative and financing counterparties to seek increased efficiency in
the availability and deployment of collateral and streamlined margin processing. 24 When fully
implemented, the New Collateral Regulations will result in increased capital requirements,
mandatory central clearing of more derivative transactions and new margining rules for bilateral
trades, which will increase demand for high quality collateral. The requirement for more
transactions and exposures to be collateralized globally is projected to result in a significant
increase in the number of required collateral movements between market participants, which will
have implications for counterparty credit risk, funding and capital charges, reputational and
operational risk. Addressing such implications will require operational efficiency, collateral
mobility, transparency and security in collateral management services.
For example, these regulatory changes include requirements for initial margin for counterparties
as well as a reduction or removal of thresholds for variation margin. It is expected that the
23

Euroclear Bank’s customer contracts provide that: “Due to restrictions imposed on Euroclear Bank by the United
States Securities and Exchange Commission (S.E.C.) following SEC Rule 17Ab2-1, equities, ETFs and REITs
issued by companies incorporated in a state or territory of the United States can be held in Euroclear Bank by
non-US Participants only.”
24

Regulatory mandates resulting in increased collateral delivery requirements, channels and movements include:
Basel III liquidity rules (Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, Basel III: A global framework for more resilient
banks and the banking system, December 2010 and revised June 2011; Basel Committee on Banking Supervision,
Basel III: The Liquidity Coverage Ratio and liquidity risk monitoring tools, January 2013; Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision, Basel III: the net stable funding ratio, October 2014, available at
www.bis.org/bcbs/basel3.htm); regulatory changes by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Margin
Requirements for Uncleared Swaps for Swap Dealers and Major Swap Participants, 81 Fed. Reg. 635 (January 6,
2016); 17 C.F.R. Parts 23 and 140); changes to margin and capital requirements implemented by the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency - Treasury, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation, Farm Credit Administration, and the Federal Housing Finance Agency (Margin and Capital
Requirements for Covered Swap Entities, 80 Fed. Reg. 74840 (November 30, 2015); 12 C.F.R. Parts 45, 237, 349,
624 and 1221); the European Market Infrastructure Regulation (European Supervisory Authorities’ (ESAs) Final
Draft Regulatory Technical Standards on risk-mitigation techniques for OTC-derivative contracts not cleared by a
CCP under Article 11(15) of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (EMIR), available at https://www.eba.europa.eu/
documents/10180/1398349/RTS+on+Risk+Mitigation+Techniques+for+OTC+contracts+%28JC-2016-+18%29.pdf/
fb0b3387-3366-4c56-9e25-74b2a4997e1d); and the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (“BCBS”) and the
International Organization of Securities Commissions (“IOSCO”) (BCBS-IOSCO, Margin requirements for noncentrally cleared derivatives (March 2015), available at http://www.bis.org/bcbs/publ/d317.htm).

6

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

inclusion of initial margin will significantly increase the amount of collateral required and will
create additional margin calls by affected counterparties. In addition, it is expected that the
removal or reduction of thresholds for variation margin will mean any changes in underlying
valuations may trigger increased margin calls requiring market participants to hold additional
collateral available for posting. Also, these regulatory changes include new restrictions on
eligible collateral, requiring the use of highly liquid assets, prescribed haircuts, segregation
requirements, as well as a prohibition on rehypothecation for initial margin.
Among other things, the New Collateral Regulations are expected to greatly increase the
complexity of collateral management 25 and create new competition for collateral. Industry
research indicates that as these regulatory changes take effect, the volume of required collateral
movements will increase and the number of collateral settlement fails and associated costs are
likely to rise proportionally. 26
Effectively managing collateral inventory on a real-time basis is integral to reducing the
operational risk and increasing efficiencies in the collateral management process. At the same
time, one important challenge of covering exposures with collateral will be delivering the right
collateral to the right place at the right time. Securities available for use as collateral have often
been locked in a particular market, entity or time zone. This reduces collateral management
efficiency and collateral optimizations, especially in a cross-border context.
1.

DEGCL Joint Venture

In order to help market participants address the challenges driven by the New Collateral
Regulations, ESA and The Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation (“DTCC”) entered into the
DEGCL joint venture in 2014. DEGCL was formed for the purpose of offering global
information, recordkeeping and processing services for derivatives collateral transactions and
other types of financing transactions. DEGCL seeks to provide services to its users, including
buy-side and sell-side financial institutions, in meeting their risk management and regulatory
requirements for the holding and exchange of collateral as required by the New Collateral
Regulations. These services will be offered to users located primarily in Europe and the United
States. DEGCL will offer a utility-based solution to deliver improvements in asset and collateral
mobility in order to respond to the New Collateral Regulations, capital requirements and other
forces driving the need for better and more efficient global collateral management.

25

See, e.g., Implications of Collateral Settlement Fails: An Industry Perspective on Bilateral OTC Derivatives (Feb.
2016),
available
at
http://www.imas.org.sg/uploads/media/2016/03/03/1046_Implications_of_Collateral_
Settlement_Fails_FINAL.pdf; Collateral Management in Europe: Searching for Central Intelligence (May 2015),
available at https://www.euroclear.com/dam/Brochures/Euroclear-Collateral-Management-Aite-Paper.pdf; The
Economics of Collateral (Dec. 2013), available at http://dtcc.com/~/media/Files/Downloads/WhitePapers/
LSE%20Report.ashx. Collateral movements will need to be tracked and actually applied against a growing number
and type of credit support documentation, segregation rules will multiply the number of collateral accounts needed
and correspondingly increase the complexity of accurately processing collateral movements across account types,
fragmented central clearing and collateral delivery channels.
26

See, e.g., id. at 5.

7

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

2.

DEGCL Inventory Management Services

One of the services that DEGCL intends to offer to market participants is an inventory
management service (the “JV-IMS”) that provides an automated mechanism for an entity that is
a participant of both Euroclear Bank and The Depository Trust Company (“DTC”) to reposition
securities from its account at DTC to its account at Euroclear Bank (and for the return of such
securities to its account at DTC). 27 The JV-IMS would address the increased demand for crossborder availability of securities collateral, some of which may be held at DTC.
To facilitate the IMS, Euroclear Bank will become a participant at DTC, subject to approval by
DTC, its standard membership requirements and certain heightened requirements for a non-U.S.
entity. As a DTC participant, Euroclear Bank will have an account at DTC 28 for the receipt, free
of payment, of securities transferred to it by other DTC participants that are users of the JV-IMS
(“IMS Users”). A DEGCL user that wishes to use JV-IMS will set parameters that specify which
assets (and in what amounts) it will make available for the JV-IMS. The IMS User will then
transfer assets that meet the parameters to a special sub-account of its DTC main account that is
designated for, and dedicated to, IMS use, and deliver instructions will be given to DTC to move
such identified assets free of payment to Euroclear Bank’s account at DTC. While held in
Euroclear Bank’s account at DTC, these assets will then be credited by Euroclear Bank to the
relevant IMS User’s account at Euroclear Bank. The JV-IMS will also facilitate the automated
return of such assets to the IMS User’s account at DTC when necessary to meet other settlement
obligations and for corporate actions. All of the foregoing will be subject to DTC rules to be
developed for the JV-IMS pursuant to DTC’s and the Commission’s normal rule filing and
approval procedures.
The JV-IMS can be used to manage certain DTC-eligible U.S. securities that the IMS User
wishes to make available for use in its EB Accounts. The current DEGCL planning contemplates
that securities eligible for the JV-IMS will include securities that would be considered to be U.S.
Equities under Euroclear Bank’s current operational procedures as described in Section I.A
above.
The JV-IMS will be offered to any entity that is an EB Participant and also has a participant
account at DTC (a “DTC Participant”). IMS Users will include entities that would qualify as
U.S. Participants. In the course of ongoing validation and planning discussions with market
participants, U.S. Participants have expressed interest in using the JV-IMS directly for U.S.
Equities. U.S. Participants already are active users of the EB-CMS. However, as described in
Section I.A above, these U.S. Participants currently cannot use the EB-CMS for U.S. Equities.
Based on these market discussions, Euroclear Bank understands that the improved efficient
global collateral management benefits provided by JV-IMS would be reduced for these U.S.
Participants if they are unable to include U.S. Equities in the scope of their use of the JV-IMS.
27

The DTC participant and the EB Participant must be the same legal entity in order to use the IMS, pursuant to
DEGCL’s contract with the JV-IMS users.
28

Euroclear Bank has signed a DTC Participant’s Agreement pursuant to which it agreed, inter alia, that the DTC
rules shall be a part of the terms and conditions of every contract or transaction that Euroclear Bank may make or
have with DTC.

8

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

3.

DEGCL Collateral Management Services

DEGCL also intends to offer collateral management services (the “JV-CMS”). Euroclear Bank
will operate the JV-CMS as a service provider to DEGCL, using the same infrastructure
(hardware, software, operational procedures, etc.) that Euroclear Bank has developed for the
EB-CMS. However, the JV-CMS is not the same service as the EB-CMS. Although certain
market participants may choose to become users of both the EB-CMS and the JV-CMS, these are
separate services, subject to separate contractual relationships and differing procedures and
scope.
As well as being different services, the EB-CMS and the JV-CMS are not operationally linked
and the two services will not interact with each other. Users of the JV-CMS will use that
service’s processing in connection with assets held outside of Euroclear Bank, 29 while users of
the EB-CMS will use the EB-CMS processing in connection with assets held on accounts at
Euroclear Bank.
C.

Operation of U.S. Equities Proposal
1.

Operational Flows of the Inventory Management Services

DEGCL intends to offer the JV-IMS as a separate service from the JV-CMS. 30
Securities that an IMS User wants to make available via the JV-IMS for mobilization as
collateral through the EB-CMS will be debited from the IMS User’s dedicated JV-IMS
sub-account at DTC, and credited to an account of Euroclear Bank at DTC (securities so credited
are referred to below as “IMS Securities”). 31
The following paragraphs describe the processes that Euroclear Bank intends to implement
within the Euroclear System and the EB-CMS, in order to facilitate the use by EB Participants of
IMS Securities within the EB-CMS (irrespective of implementation of the U.S. Equities
Proposal).
After IMS Securities are credited to the Euroclear Bank account at DTC, the IMS Securities will
be credited to the relevant EB Participant’s EB Account at Euroclear Bank. 32 Dedicated EB
Accounts (“IMS Linked Accounts”) will be established for this crediting of IMS Securities on
the books of Euroclear Bank, each of which will be designated by the EB Participant for JV-IMS
related activity. These IMS Linked Accounts will be structured to only allow the EB Participant:
(1) to receive IMS Securities in these accounts; (2) to deliver IMS Securities out of these
29

Settlement of collateral movements in connection with the JV-CMS will be organized by the relevant collateral
taker’s and giver’s designated settlement service providers, on the books of DTC, Fedwire or such service provider
or other U.S. custodian, independently of the JV-CMS, DEGCL, the EB-CMS and Euroclear Bank.
30

Users that subscribe to and receive the JV-CMS are not obliged to receive the JV-IMS (and vice versa).

31

This process will be subject to DTC rules to be developed for the JV-IMS.

32

All settlement activity related to the JV-IMS that occurs on the books of DTC is governed exclusively by DTC
procedures. All activity related to the use of assets that occurs on the books of Euroclear Bank is governed
exclusively by the Euroclear Bank contractual framework.

9

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

accounts for mobilization as collateral through the EB-CMS infrastructure; and (3) to deliver
IMS Securities back to the relevant IMS User’s dedicated sub-account at DTC. These IMS
Linked Accounts will not permit delivery of IMS Securities out of such accounts for any other
purposes in the Euroclear System, such as normal settlement activity. The intended result of
these restrictions is that, at all times that IMS Securities are credited to the Euroclear Bank
account at DTC that is used for JV-IMS activity, a corresponding credit will be reflected on
Euroclear Bank books either in IMS Linked Accounts or within the EB-CMS structure as
described below.
In order to implement these principles, IMS Securities will be first credited at Euroclear Bank to
an IMS Linked Account of the EB Participant that is dedicated to the processing of such IMS
Securities. Such securities are then available for mobilization as collateral through the EB-CMS
by transfer to a Collateral Account (which may be a Collateral Account of the IMS User or one
of its EB-CMS counterparties acting as collateral taker). 33 Such transfer instructions will be
processed (by the Euroclear Bank settlement processing infrastructure) as a debit from the IMS
Linked Account and a credit to the relevant Collateral Account, under the normal terms and
conditions of the EB-CMS.
Once credited to the Collateral Account, the following scenarios can occur:
•

If the Collateral Account is in the name of the IMS User, the IMS Securities may
remain in such Collateral Account until an instruction is received from the EBCMS system to deliver such IMS Securities on behalf of the IMS User (acting as
collateral giver) to one of its EB-CMS counterparties (acting as collateral taker) or
until the IMS Securities are recalled for crediting back to the IMS User's
dedicated sub-account at DTC.

•

If the Collateral Account is in the name of an EB-CMS counterparty acting as
collateral taker, the IMS Securities may remain credited to such Collateral
Account until the IMS Securities are no longer used as collateral for the relevant
collateral arrangement.

•

Where a collateral taker (or subsequent collateral taker) is permitted to onward
use the collateral by the relevant bilateral arrangements with its collateral giver,
the collateral taker may deliver IMS Securities that it has received to a subsequent
collateral taker through the EB-CMS.

•

When a collateral giver wants to recall collateral, the EB-CMS will debit that
collateral and re-credit it back to the original collateral giver that has triggered the
recall, substituting alternative collateral as permitted according to the underlying
arrangements between each pair of collateral counterparties and the standard EBCMS rules.

33

The relevant EB Participant/IMS User will determine whether to transfer to a Collateral Account in its name or
directly to a Collateral Account of an EB-CMS counterparty, at its discretion.

10

EXHIBIT S-1
•

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Finally, if any collateral giver in a chain has defaulted on its underlying bilateral
arrangements, the default procedures described below will apply.

As described above, once IMS Securities are credited to a segregated Collateral Account, it is
possible that a collateral giver will default on its relevant underlying collateral obligation. 34 In
this case, a pre-agreed default process will apply, according to the counterparties’ bilateral
arrangements and the EB-CMS Services Agreements. Under these arrangements, Euroclear
Bank will receive a notice from the relevant collateral taker or collateral giver that a default has
happened, which will trigger a special process supported by Euroclear Bank operations staff to
permit a liquidating collateral taker to deliver the relevant securities used as collateral out of its
Collateral Account. Euroclear Bank will process the liquidation instructions as normal
settlement instructions, subject to the same protocols and validation rules that apply to settlement
activities in EB Accounts (including the Current Equities Restrictions). 35 When the collateral
involved in a default includes IMS Securities, these procedures will also apply. However, to
remain consistent with the JV-IMS structure as described previously, Euroclear Bank will adopt
an additional process as part of the process of execution of instructions to liquidate IMS
Securities that are held in a Collateral Account. Specifically, Euroclear Bank will instruct DTC
to debit the same IMS Securities from the Euroclear Bank account at DTC related to the JV-IMS
and to credit such securities to the account at DTC of the custodian through which Euroclear
Bank normally holds securities at DTC instead. 36
2.

Operational Flows of the Proposed U.S. Equities Service

Under the Current Equities Restrictions applied by Euroclear Bank, EB Participants that qualify
as U.S. Participants would not be able to use the JV-IMS for any IMS Securities that qualify as
U.S. Equities.
To implement the U.S. Equities Proposal, the Current Equities Restrictions would be dis-applied
(both contractually and operationally) to IMS Linked Accounts and Collateral Accounts under
the following conditions:
(a)

EB Participants that are U.S. Participants would be permitted to
receive U.S. Equities through the JV-IMS into their IMS Linked
Accounts and into Collateral Accounts in the EB-CMS in order to
give such U.S. Equities as collateral (but not to use such U.S.
Equities in any other manner, including normal settlement);

34

The below paragraphs describe the processes that apply in case a collateral giver defaults on its underlying
collateral obligation to its collateral taker, without related insolvency proceedings. Where such default occurs in the
context of the insolvency of an EB Participant, Euroclear Bank would apply its procedures that relate to a participant
insolvency, which are manual processes that are conducted in accordance with the requirements of the insolvency
jurisdiction that will govern such insolvency proceeding and in accordance with the Euroclear Bank asset protection
regime.
35

The Current Equities Restrictions prohibit the delivery by a liquidating collateral taker of U.S. Equities to a U.S.
Participant within the Euroclear System as part of this process.
36

Euroclear Bank’s U.S. custodian is currently J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A.

11

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(b)

U.S. Participants would be permitted to receive U.S. Equities as
collateral in their Collateral Accounts within the EB-CMS
structure from both U.S. Participants and non-U.S. Participants
(including U.S. Equities received through the JV-IMS), but not in
any other service or any other EB Account or for any other
purposes within Euroclear Bank (including normal settlement, with
a limited exception to implement the default process described
above); and

(c)

if U.S. Participants that receive U.S. Equities in their Collateral
Account in the EB-CMS are permitted by their underlying
arrangements to re-use collateral, such U.S. Participants would be
permitted to re-use such U.S. Equities by giving them as collateral
to their counterparty’s Collateral Account in the EB-CMS, but not
in any other service or for any other purposes within Euroclear
Bank.

Under the U.S. Equities Proposal, an EB Participant that is a U.S. Participant would be permitted
to utilize the JV-IMS to receive U.S. Equities that are IMS Securities in its IMS Linked Accounts
and act as a collateral giver to make such securities available for mobilization as collateral
through the EB-CMS, in the same manner and subject to the same procedures and restrictions as
described above.
Under the U.S. Equities Proposal, a U.S. Participant acting as collateral taker would be permitted
to receive U.S. Equities (which may be IMS Securities or non-IMS Securities received from
non-U.S. Participants) only in its Collateral Account within the EB-CMS structure. Once
credited to its Collateral Account, the U.S. Equities would be subject to the same procedures and
restrictions as described above.
In all cases, U.S. Participants that give or receive U.S. Equity Securities as collateral in the
EB-CMS would not be permitted to deliver or otherwise use such U.S. Equity Securities outside
of the EB-CMS structure, except to return such U.S. Equity Securities to the relevant giver
account within the EB-CMS structure, to an IMS Linked Account, or to liquidate such U.S.
Equity Securities in the very limited instance of a collateral giver default.
In all circumstances except those described above, the Current Equities Restrictions would
remain in place and would continue to prohibit U.S. Participants from receiving, holding or
delivering U.S. Equities from an EB Account. The combination of the structure described above
and the limited lifting of the Current Equities Restrictions would ensure that U.S. Participants
could use U.S. Equities within Euroclear Bank only under the above limited and well-defined
conditions.
II.

Policy Considerations

Euroclear Bank believes that modifying the Existing Exemption Order to permit Euroclear Bank
to offer the U.S. Equities Clearing Agency Activities (1) will produce substantial U.S. public
benefits, (2) will provide U.S. investors and the U.S. national clearance and settlement system

12

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

with substantially the same level of protection against risk related to custody, clearance and
settlement that full registration would provide, and (3) will advance the purposes of Section 17A
of the Exchange Act.
A.

Statutory Standards

Section 17A of the Exchange Act directs the Commission to facilitate the establishment of (1) a
national system for the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions
and (2) linked or coordinated facilities for clearance and settlement of securities transactions. 37
In facilitating the establishment of the national clearance and settlement system, the Commission
must have due regard for the public interest, the protection of investors, the safeguarding of
securities and funds and maintenance of fair competition among brokers and dealers, clearing
agencies and transfer agents. 38 Section 17A(b)(1) of the Exchange Act requires all clearing
agencies to register with the Commission.39 It also states that, upon the Commission’s motion or
upon a clearing agency’s application, the Commission may conditionally or unconditionally
exempt a clearing agency from any provision of Section 17A of the Exchange Act or the rules or
regulations thereunder if the Commission finds that such exemption is consistent with the public
interest, the protection of investors and the purposes of Section 17A, including the prompt and
accurate clearance and settlement of securities and funds.
Specifically,
Sections 17A(b)(3)(A)-(I) identify determinations that the Commission must make about the
rules and structure of a clearing agency prior to granting registration. 40
Under the terms of the Existing Exemption Order, the Commission required that the Euroclear
System be substantially in compliance with Section 17A of the Exchange Act and the rules and
regulations thereunder. In issuing the Existing Exemption Order, the Commission reviewed
Euroclear Bank’s operations, governance, internal controls and regulatory oversight in Belgium
and found that issuing the Existing Exemption Order was consistent with the required and
appropriate standards, both upon issuance of the 1998 Exemption Order and again upon issuance
of the 2001 Exemption Order. 41 As described in this Modification Application, Euroclear
Bank’s arrangements have evolved since the 1998 Exemption Order in light of changing market
conditions and enhanced regulatory requirements internationally and the addition to the
Euroclear Group of the Euroclear Group CSDs. Euroclear Bank continues to materially satisfy
the objectives of Section 17A and the standards adopted thereunder, and provides at least as
robust arrangements as reviewed by the Commission in 2001. Therefore, Euroclear Bank
considers that the Modification Request is consistent with Euroclear Bank’s ongoing substantial
compliance with the fundamental requirements and purposes of clearing agency oversight by the
Commission under Section 17A.
37

See 15 U.S.C. 78q-1(a)(2)(A).

38

See, e.g., Bloomberg STP LLS; SS&C Technologies, Inc.; Order of the Commission Approving Applications for
an Exemption from Registration as a Clearing Agency, 80 Fed. Reg. 75388, 75390 nn.10-12 (Nov. 24, 2015) (“2015
Matching Exemption Orders”).
39

15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(1).

40

15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(A)-(I). The Commission staff has published guidance on meeting the requirements of
Section 17A. See Exchange Act Release No. 16900 (June 17, 1980), 45 Fed. Reg. 41920 (June 23, 1980).
41

2001 Exemption Order, at 820.

13

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

In the context of the 2015 Matching Exemption Orders, the Commission restated its view that it
might not be necessary or appropriate for an entity that limited its clearing agency functions to
providing matching services to be subject to the full range of clearing agency regulation. The
Commission stated that it anticipated that an entity seeking an exemption from clearing agency
registration in order to provide services that the Commission considered did not create the same
risks as ‘core’ clearing agency functions would be required to: (1) provide the Commission with
information on the exempted clearing agency service and on material changes to such service;
(2) allow the Commission to inspect its facilities and records; (3) make periodic disclosures to
the Commission regarding its operations; and (4) comply with conditions specific to the
exempted clearing service. 42 As noted more fully below, Euroclear Bank suggests that it would
also be appropriate for the Commission to conclude that the U.S. Equities Clearing Agency
Activities do not create the same risks that might be associated with the provision of core
settlement and custody clearing agency functions for U.S. Equity Securities and that, therefore,
broadening the Existing Exemption Order to permit Euroclear Bank to provide the U.S. Equities
Clearing Agency Activities is appropriate on the conditions described in Part III below.
Since the Commission issued the Existing Exemption Order, the Commission has also
recognized that Section 17A of the Exchange Act permits the Commission to take into account
evolving international standards in establishing the Commission’s standards for clearing agencies
and in its oversight of clearing agencies. 43 The Commission referenced in its adoption of Rule
17Ad-22 the standards developed by IOSCO and the Committee on Payment and Settlement
Systems (“CPSS”) (“PFMI Principles”) that are contained in the report entitled Principles for
Financial Market Infrastructures (“PFMI Report”). 44 The PFMI Report, published on April 16,
2012, was formulated by securities regulators and central banks to promote sound risk
management practices and encourage the safe design and operation of entities that provide
clearance and settlement services. 45 Noting that the Commission staff participated in the
development and drafting of the PFMI Report, the Commission has stated that it believes that the
standards set forth in the PFMI Report are generally consistent with the requirements applicable
to clearing agencies set forth in the Exchange Act. 46
The Commission also recognized that regulatory authorities around the world are updating their
regulatory regimes to adopt measures that are in line with the standards set forth in the PFMI
Report. 47 Belgium has fully adopted the PFMI Report standards applicable to CSDs and
securities settlement systems. 48 The National Bank of Belgium (“NBB”) assesses the Euroclear
42

See, e.g., 2015 Matching Exemption Orders, at 75390 n.16.

43

15 U.S.C. 78q-1(i).

44

The CPSS is now referred to as the Committee on Payments and Market Infrastructures (“CPMI”). The National
Bank of Belgium is a member of the CPMI and also participated in the preparation of the PFMI Report.
45

See Exchange Act Release No. 34-68080 (Oct. 22, 2012), 77 Fed. Reg. 66219 (Nov. 2, 2012) (“Clearing Agency
Standards Adopting Release”), at 66222-23, nn.30-34.
46

See Clearing Agency Standards Adopting Release, at 168871-72, nn.48-53.

47

Id.

48

The PFMI Report standards have been made expressly applicable in Belgium by the NBB and the NBB assesses
Euroclear Bank and its operations against the Principles. See, e.g., NBB Circular dated July 20, 2012 (NBB 2012
06). CPSS-IOSCO, Implementation Monitoring of PFMIs – Level 1 Assessment Report (Aug. 2013), available at

14

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

System as operated by Euroclear Bank against the PFMI Principles, also taking into account
international best practices where appropriate (such as in the field of operational reliability,
business continuity, liquidity and links). In addition, Belgium is implementing the European
Union’s Central Securities Depositories Regulation (“CSDR”), which came into force in
September 2014. 49 The CSDR imposes additional requirements on European CSDs, further
increasing the prudential supervision and regulations that apply to Euroclear Bank and its
affiliate CSDs. 50
Euroclear Bank makes available annually its report on observance by Euroclear Bank of the
PFMI Report standards, in a “Disclosure Framework” report that follows the disclosure
framework and assessment methodology for the PFMIs published by CPSS-IOSCO. This public
disclosure is intended to promote consistent and comprehensive public disclosure by financial
market infrastructures in line with the requirements of the PFMIs and to provide guidance for
monitoring and assessing observance with the PFMIs. Euroclear Bank’s most recent report,
published October 20, 2015, is provided as part of the Modification Application as Exhibit K-5
(“2015 EB Disclosure Report”).
In addition to the standards against which the Commission assessed Euroclear Bank’s application
for the Existing Exemption Order in 1998 and 2001, the Commission has adopted Rule 17Ad-22
which establishes minimum requirements regarding how registered clearing agencies must
maintain effective risk management procedures and controls, as well as meet the statutory
requirements under the Exchange Act on an ongoing basis. The Existing Exemption Order was
granted and maintained prior to the adoption of Rule 17Ad-22, and Rule 17Ad-22 does not apply
to entities that are operating pursuant to an exemption from registration as a clearing agency
granted by the Commission. 51 Nonetheless, Euroclear Bank considers that it materially meets
the relevant obligations of Rule 17Ad-22 52 with respect to the U.S. Government Securities
Clearing Agency Activities. As noted above, the Rule 17Ad-22 requirements are consistent with
the PFMI Principles, which Euroclear Bank and the Euroclear System are assessed against by the
http://www.bis.org/cpmi/publ/d111.htm, the First Update to the Level 1 Assessment Report (May 2014), available
at http://www.bis.org/cpmi/publ/d117.htm, the Second Update to the Level 1 Assessment Report (June 2015)
available at http://www.bis.org/cpmi/publ/d129.htm, and the Implementation monitoring of PFMI: Assessment and
Review of Application of Responsibilities for Authorities (Nov. 2015) available at http://www.bis.org/
cpmi/publ/d139.htm.
49

Regulation 909/2014 of July 23, 2014, on improving securities settlement in the European Union and on central
securities depositories (CSDs) and amending Directive 98/26/EC and 2014/65/EU and Regulation (EU) No
236/2012, available at http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32014R0909&from=EN.
50

See, e.g., The CSD Regulation, A Guide for our Clients (Sept. 2014), available at https://www.euroclear.com/
dam/PDFs/Whitepapers/Whitepaper-The-CSD-regulation.pdf.
51

See Clearing Agency Standards Adopting Release, at 16871, n.47.

52

17 C.F.R. 240.17Ad-22(a)(2). “Central securities depository services means services of a clearing agency that is a
securities depository as described in Section 3(a)(23) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(23)(A)).” The Clearing Agency
Activities involve the services of a “central securities depository” as defined in Rule 17Ad-22. The Clearing Agency
Activities are not the services of a “central counterparty” as defined in Rule 17Ad-22 and therefore this Exhibit S-1
does not address provisions of Rule 17Ad-22 that apply solely to such central counterparty services. “Central
counterparty means a clearing agency that interposes itself between the counterparties to securities transactions,
acting functionally as the buyer to every seller and the seller to every buyer.” 17 C.F.R. 240.17Ad-22(a)(1).

15

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

NBB and which is the subject of Euroclear Bank’s annual disclosure publication under the PFMI
Disclosure Framework. Accordingly, Euroclear Bank considers that its compliance with the
PFMI Principles (as discussed below and in more detail in the 2015 EB Disclosure Report)
demonstrates Euroclear Bank’s material compliance with the principles adopted by the
Commission in Rule 17Ad-22. As the proposed U.S. Equities Clearing Agency Activities will
be operated on the basis of Euroclear Bank’s existing arrangements, as described above,
Euroclear Bank considers that it will also substantially meet the Rule 17Ad-22 requirements with
respect to the U.S. Equities Clearing Agency Activities.
The following sections of this Exhibit S-1 describe in more detail specific factors that the
Commission has noted in its consideration of other applications for exemption from clearing
agency registration. In each section, Euroclear Bank identifies the relevant Rule 17Ad-22
provision that addresses the relevant consideration, and the corresponding PFMI Principles that
Euroclear Bank complies with as described in greater detail in the 2015 EB Disclosure Report. 53
B.

Efficiency

Congressional findings upon adoption of Section 17A state that inefficient procedures for
clearance and settlement impose unnecessary costs on investors and persons facilitating
transactions. In granting exemptions from clearing agency registration, the Commission has
considered whether an applicant would improve or decrease the efficiency of the U.S. clearing
and settlement system (particularly processing efficiencies) and whether an exemption would
lead to unnecessary costs. 54 The Modification Request would, if granted, be consistent with the
“efficiency” purposes of Section 17A, as described in more detail below.
Rule 17Ad-22(d)(6) – Cost-effectiveness. Rule 17Ad-22(d)(6) requires registered clearing
agencies to be cost-effective in meeting the requirements of participants while maintaining safe
and secure operations. PFMI Principle 21 (Efficiency) requires that “An FMI should be efficient
and effective in meeting the requirements of its participants and the markets it serves.”
Euroclear Bank complies with PFMI Principle 21 and the purposes of Rule 17Ad-22(d)(6), as
described in more detail in the 2015 EB Disclosure Report. 55
The U.S. Equities Proposal would benefit the U.S. market and U.S. Participants, particularly in
improved efficiencies and reduction in systemic risk for U.S. Participants that have collateral
obligations in Europe, in light of the growing need to deliver collateral that is expected to
increase in 2016 and thereafter as the New Collateral Regulations take effect. Achieving these
benefits would support the underlying objectives of the Exchange Act, further the goals of
investor protection and support and promote integrity of the securities markets.

53

Exhibit K and Exhibit M include other relevant descriptions of Euroclear Bank’s compliance with concepts
discussed herein, including Euroclear Bank’s annual ISAE 3402 disclosure and the Euroclear Group’s Pillar 3
disclosure.
54

See, e.g., 2015 Matching Exemption Orders, at 75391-97.

55

2015 EB Disclosure Report, at 127-129.

16

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

As described above, the implementation of the New Collateral Regulations is expected to
increase the need to post and manage significant amounts of additional collateral, to deal with
increased intraday collateral posting obligations and reduced collateral velocity due to new
segregation and documentation requirements, and to mobilize collateral in the most operationally
efficient and cost effective ways. Reducing collateral processing risk that is associated with the
increased collateral obligations will require improved collateral mobility (across collateral
locations currently siloed by region and counterparty), transparency on the global view of
eligible assets for more efficient deployment of collateral of all grades (particularly in light of
increased capital requirements that restrict the availability of high-grade assets for collateral use),
greater operational and efficiency at lower costs, and highly secure, efficient and sophisticated
collateral management systems.
One result of the projected increased global collateral needs is that the cost of settlement fails for
collateral deliveries are projected to grow as well. The average annual value of collateral assets
that are currently supporting bilateral OTC derivatives is estimated to be almost $890 billion, just
for the 40+ firms participating in the annual survey of the International Swap Dealers
Association. 56 Research indicates that currently there is a three percent settlement fail rate for
collateral movements (i.e., a failure of a collateral giver to deliver the required amount and type
of collateral to the collateral taker on time and in the correct location). 57 If this current rate is
sustained at the same time that collateral obligations and movements is projected to dramatically
increase due to the New Collateral Regulations, research suggests that the operational costs of
such fails will be unsustainably high, particularly for buy-side firms. For sell-side firms, a three
percent collateral settlement fail rate correlates to nearly $27 billion industry-wide of
unsupported exposure due to collateral settlement failure (adding in unsupported exposure for
buy-side firms would increase this figure). At the same time, there is a risk that the problems
that cause collateral settlement fails may be exacerbated given the complex changes that will
need to be made to OTC derivative workflows and documentation.
Another result of increased capital regulations and the New Collateral Regulations is that, to
meet new regulatory ratios and reduce their intraday credit needs, banks and broker-dealers need
to optimize their securities funding activities across securities financing transactions in the repo
and securities lending segments. When combined with OTC derivative reforms, the increased
regulation means that banks and broker-dealers must be able to make collateral available
wherever and whenever it is needed in order to remain efficient. 58 This requires improved asset
mobility. While some firms have developed a sophisticated approach to managing assets across
operational and jurisdictional silos, others have not. 59
56

2015 International Swap Dealers Association Survey.

57

See, e.g., Implications of Collateral Settlement Fails: An Industry Perspective on Bilateral OTC Derivatives, infra
note 25.
58

For example, Basel III’s requirement to hold high quality liquid assets on the balance sheet means that sell-side
firms are likely to have fewer available assets to pledge as collateral, and the shortage will in turn cause the cost of
pledging these assets to go up. It also creates the need to mobilize lower quality collateral where acceptable.
Collateral mobility concerns will therefore increase.
59

See, e.g., Implications of Collateral Settlement Fails: An Industry Perspective on Bilateral OTC Derivatives, infra
note 25.

17

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The inability to identify, move or recognize available collateral in a timely manner (particularly
in times of market stress before or during market crises) could exacerbate collateral shortfalls. A
study by the London School of Economics concluded that, while there may be sufficient actual
aggregate collateral globally available to meet the industry’s collateral needs even after the
implementation of the New Collateral Regulations, it may be inaccessible to those who need it,
resulting in eligible collateral being immobilized in one part of the global financial system and
unattainable by credit-worthy borrowers. 60 A collateral bottleneck in one part of the global
financial system, in any location and at any point in time, may have knock-on effects across
interrelated markets elsewhere and risks impacting the global flow of liquidity.
Market research commissioned by DEGCL suggests that a primary challenge for sell-side firms
to deal with the New Collateral Regulations is the ability to move collateral around the globe to
meet collateral requirements or calls in specific countries. Research by market institutions and
think tanks have attempted to calculate the change in demand for collateral; a recent study by the
Bank of International Settlement estimates that the amount of collateral needed to meet
requirements posed by the New Collateral Regulations globally could reach $4 trillion. That
figure rises to $11.2 trillion in stressed market conditions, according to estimates of the U.S.
Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee. 61 As firms become more aware of the increase in the
demand for collateral, there is concern that they are unable to sufficiently mobilize and transform
collateral or to determine the specific eligibility required to allocate the collateral against their
exposures and across collateral channels (which are increasingly splintered across jurisdictions,
central counterparties and operational silos). According to recent studies, as much as 15% of
collateral available to financial institutions is currently left idle costing the industry more than
€4 billion a year. 62
The DEGCL services are designed to help address this need for improved collateral mobility and
more efficient, consistent and reliable collateral management tools in a trusted, well-controlled
and proven market infrastructure environment. The JV-IMS will help to address the above
concerns in part by providing a more efficient way for participants with accounts in both DTC
and Euroclear Bank to mobilize DTC assets in Euroclear Bank when they are needed there to
meet collateral obligations with European and other counterparties that subscribe to the
EB-CMS. 63 The broader services to be offered by DEGCL will also permit more efficient
infrastructure based collateral management for assets located in the United States. These
DEGCL services, and particularly the IMS, will give dealers access to additional pools of
funding for corporate bonds, asset-backed securities and equities, thereby expanding their
funding bases for “less-liquid” collateral.
60

The Economics of Collateral, infra note 25.

61

See Office of Debt Management, Fiscal Year 2013 Q2 Report, at 61, available at https://www.treasury.
gov/resource-center/data-chart-center/quarterly-refunding/Documents/TBAC_Discussion_Charts_May_2013_r.pdf
%20-%20Adobe%20Acrobat%20Pro.pdf.
62

Accenture and Clearstream, Collateral Management: Unlocking the Potential in Collateral, available at
http://www.clearstream.com/blob/10620/e5bf3b589c8f3ff6afd19166f9d53d3b/accenture-collateral-report-pdfdata.pdf.
63

It is expected that U.S. parties will primarily use the U.S. Equities Proposal to manage collateral obligations with
European and international counterparties in Collateral Accounts at Euroclear Bank.

18

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

The U.S. Equities Proposal will permit U.S. Participants to benefit from these risk and cost
reductions identified above, by allowing them to mobilize U.S. Equity Securities as collateral for
their collateral counterparts in Euroclear Bank. As non-U.S. Participants will be able to make
use of the JV-IMS with U.S. Equities for these purposes without restriction, the U.S. Equities
Proposal will provide the same benefits to U.S. Participants.
Granting the Modification Request will therefore reduce transaction costs and collateral
settlement fail risks arising from insufficient collateral at the right location when needed by
allowing U.S. Participants expanded use of U.S. Equities to meet their collateral obligations in
the European time zone and with European and international counterparties. Permitting
Euroclear Bank to offer the U.S. Equities Clearing Agency Activities would also promote the
public interest in increased competition for the provision of collateral management services that
can utilize U.S. Equities on behalf of U.S. Participants.
Euroclear Bank also notes that additional costs for the market of implementing the U.S. Equities
Proposal are expected to be low; U.S. Participants permitted to use the U.S. Equities Clearing
Agency Activities would either themselves or through their Euroclear affiliates already use the
Euroclear Bank collateral management services and, under the requirements for the JV-IMS,
must also have DTC accounts. There will be fees charged for the servicing of U.S. Equity
Securities as part of the JV-IMS. All other fees will be the normal DTC and Euroclear Bank fees
associated with the use and provision of their respective services.
We also note that, as the U.S. Equities Proposal is limited to the use of U.S. Equity Securities by
U.S. Participants for collateral management purposes (and not for normal settlement in a
Euroclear Bank main account or other non-collateral related purposes), the U.S. Equities
Proposal should not impact settlement of transactions in U.S. Equity Securities as part of the
cash market for such securities. Euroclear Bank will not settle trades in U.S. Equities for U.S.
Participants that are unrelated to the U.S. Equities Proposal as described herein.
C.

Safety and Soundness Protections in General
1.

Regulatory Oversight

As stated in the 2001 Exemption Order, Euroclear Bank is authorized in Belgium as a Belgian
credit institution. 64 It is subject to consolidated supervision by the NBB and the Belgian
Financial Services Market Authority (“FSMA”), and is also recognized as a central securities
depository for financial instruments and a designated settlement system. 65 Among other things,
the New Banking Law enacts into Belgian law the European Union’s Capital Requirements
Directive.

64

Euroclear Bank is authorized in Belgium under the banking law dated March 22, 1993 and also under the new
banking law dated April 25, 2014 (“New Banking Law”).
65

See generally 2015 EB Disclosure Report, at 16-18.

19

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

ESA is authorized in Belgium as a holding company of a regulated credit institution (Euroclear
Bank) and also as “an institution assimilated to a securities settlement system” and is also
supervised by the NBB. 66
ESA and Euroclear Bank are subject to the comprehensive supervision on a consolidated basis
by Belgian financial authorities. Specifically, as a licensed credit institution operating in
Belgium, Euroclear Bank is subject to the prudential supervision and oversight of the NBB,67
which exercises its supervision on a consolidated basis. Euroclear Bank is also subject to the
supervision of the NBB in its role as operator of the Euroclear system and is recognized as a
“central securities depository for financial instruments.” 68 As a result, Euroclear Bank is
supervised on both the basis of international standards applicable to banks, as well as
international standards applicable to central depositories/settlement systems.
The NBB is required to ensure that Euroclear Bank’s clearance, settlement and payment systems
operate properly and that they are efficient and sound, as well as ensuring that Euroclear Bank
meets all the obligations applicable to credit institutions under applicable European law (as
adopted into Belgian law). The NBB has the authority to order Euroclear Bank to limit, suspend
or stop activities if they are deemed to impede Euroclear Bank’s solvency. The NBB can also
withdraw Euroclear Bank’s authorizations if Euroclear Bank does not comply with the regulatory
requirements of its various authorizations. In addition to assessing Euroclear Bank under the
PFMI Principles, the NBB also considers best practices where appropriate (e.g., in the field of
operational reliability/business continuity, liquidity and links).
The NBB oversight applies a risk-based approach. In its capacity as prudential supervisor, the
NBB also verifies that Euroclear Bank continuously meets the authorization requirements and
operating criteria laid down in relevant laws and regulations. This implies inter alia that the
NBB ascertains that the institution’s organization and functioning are appropriate, and carries out
supervision over its activities and financial situation (on a stand-alone and consolidated basis).
In addition to its primary supervision by the NBB, Euroclear Bank is also regulated by the
Belgian FSMA for the purposes of compliance with investor protection rules, rules on operation,
integrity and transparency of the Belgian financial markets. These include requirements relating
66

Euroclear SA (not Euroclear Bank) is an institution assimilated to a settlement institution and is as such subject to
the Belgian Royal Decree of September 26, 2005 on the status of settlement institutions and institutions assimilated
thereto (“2005 Decree”). Pursuant to Article 20, § 2 of the 2005 Decree, institutions assimilated to a settlement
institution may not have shareholdings in commercial companies without the prior approval of the NBB, unless the
shareholding is taken in companies whose activities consist, in whole or in part, in the activities which a settlement
institution or an institution assimilated thereto may carry out.
67

See Regulation 575/2013 of June 26, 2013 on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms
(CRR) IV and Regulation 909/2014 of July 23, 2014 on improving securities settlement in the European Union and
on central securities depositaries.
68

Royal Decree of August 22, 2002. The laws and regulations that are applicable to the Euroclear System and which
form its legal basis are published in the Official Gazette of the Kingdom of Belgium (accessible to the public at
http://www.ejustice.just.fgov.be/cgi/welcome.pl). In addition, legislation related to the financial sector can be
consulted on the website of the FSMA (http://www.fsma.be) or on the website of the National Bank of Belgium
(http://www.nbb.be).

20

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

to conflicts of interest with clients, customer protection in case of insolvencies and enforcement
of conduct requirements.
In addition, the relevant supervisors of the Euroclear Group (I)CSDs have entered into
cooperative and information sharing agreements that provide for coordinated and common
oversight and supervision and, where applicable, coordinated assessment, of ESA in its role as
service provider to Euroclear Group entities. The common supervision of ESA for these purposes
is governed by a Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) among the relevant Euroclear Group
regulators. 69 The MOU permits these regulators to also consider compliance of the ESA services
with relevant international standards and to discuss regulatory issues relating to ESA services
directly with the NBB and FSMA, as the direct regulator for ESA.
The implementation of the MOU has led to the establishment of committees among the signatory
regulators of the MOU, which operate on a consensus basis for the purpose of coordinating
supervision of common aspects of the Euroclear Group’s (I)CSD services.
The regulatory oversight arrangements described above apply fully to Euroclear Bank’s
provision of the U.S. Government Securities Clearing Agency Activities and will apply equally
to Euroclear Bank’s provision of U.S. Equities Clearing Agency Activities. In addition to the
regulation of Euroclear Bank, ESA and the Euroclear Group as described above, Euroclear Bank
also notes that the U.S. Equity Securities that will be the subject of the U.S. Equities Clearing
Agency Activities will be held by Euroclear Bank directly at DTC (in Euroclear Bank’s account
at DTC) or indirectly (through Euroclear Bank’s U.S. custodian) 70 and that any depository bank
through which Eligible U.S. Government Securities or U.S. Equities are held by Euroclear Bank
would be subject to the comprehensive supervision of U.S. bank regulators.
D.

Competition, Choice and Innovation

Section 17A of the Exchange Act directs the Commission in facilitating the establishment of the
national clearance and settlement system, to have due regard for, among other things,
maintenance of fair competition among clearing agencies. 71 The Modification Request would, if
granted, be consistent with the “fair competition” purposes of Section 17A for several reasons.
First, Euroclear Bank through a modified exemption would not change competition as it relates
to the U.S. national system for clearance and settlement in U.S. Equity Securities for U.S.
Participants and may improve competition among market participants offering collateral
management services. The U.S. Equities Proposal as described above is limited in its scope and
purpose: it is intended to permit a more efficient use of U.S. Equity Securities to meet collateral
69

Memorandum of Understanding on the Co-operation Framework for the Oversight/Supervision of
Euroclear SA/NV (ESA),
available
at
https://www.nbb.be/doc/cp/eng/aboutcbfa/mou/pdf/mou_2009-1005_supervisionofeuroclear.pdf.
70

Euroclear Bank notes that there are a de minimis number of U.S. Equity Securities that the U.S. Issuer has chosen
to deposit outside of DTC, which are eligible in the Euroclear System. Euroclear Bank intends to include these
within the scope of the Modification Request, although these would of necessity be held by Euroclear Bank through
its custodian in the relevant market where these securities have been initially deposited.
71

15 U.S.C. 78q-1(a)(2)(A).

21

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

obligations of a wider range of market participants. A substantial number of U.S. Participants use
the EB-CMS today, but are disadvantaged compared to non-U.S. Participants in the range of
collateral they are able to mobilize to meet their collateral obligations if their collateral
counterparty wants to use the EB-CMS. The U.S. Equities Proposal would level the playing field
between U.S. Participants and non-U.S. Participants in the types of U.S. securities that they can
offer as collateral in the EB-CMS.
Second, it is not expected that, by expanding the EB-CMS for U.S. Participants to enable the use
of U.S. Equity Securities, the primary activity for use of U.S. Equity Securities as collateral
would concentrate in Euroclear Bank. U.S. Participants have the option today of providing U.S.
Equity Securities as collateral by using the services of a market intermediary that is not regulated
by the Commission as a clearing agency (typically a bank) or by making bilateral collateral
management arrangements and undertaking collateral management activities themselves.
Granting the Modification Request would not eliminate these alternatives nor make them more
or less efficient than they are today.
Finally, as described above, the DEGCL joint venture is intended ultimately to make the robust
and well-known functionality of the EB-CMS available for assets in the United States without
the need for U.S. Participants to move assets manually from their accounts at DTC or other U.S.
settlement location. Through DEGCL, market participants will eventually be able to use the
same processing structures and features that they are familiar with in the EB-CMS, provided by a
market infrastructure provider, to give/take as collateral assets held in DTC (or other U.S.
settlement locations, including their intermediaries). As co-founder of DEGCL with DTCC,
Euroclear Group fully supports the plans of DEGCL to achieve these additional options and
benefits for the U.S. market. Euroclear Bank also believes that the DEGCL service offering will
provide additional benefits to U.S. Participants when launched, including same time zone
advantages, operational efficiencies and cost savings and the ability to leverage staff and
procedures that are already used for DTC settlement with collateral management activities. At
the same time, in the face of anticipated increased global collateral needs, Euroclear Bank
considers that it would also be very beneficial to U.S. Participants to have the option to use U.S.
Equity Securities as collateral in Euroclear Bank, where European counterparts of U.S.
Participants may prefer to locate their collateral management operations.
Euroclear Bank also notes that its provision of services must comply with relevant European
Union competition law principles, which effectively require fair and non-discriminatory
practices towards competitors.
Finally, although the U.S. Equities Proposal is related to provision of services by DEGCL and
DTC as described above, these entities will provide their services in their separate capacities.
DTC’s provision of services is subject to the Commission’s oversight and rules on fairness 72 and
is not contingent on, nor priced commonly with, the Euroclear Bank U.S. Equities Proposal.

72

See 17 C.F.R. 240.17Ad-22(b)(5) and (c)(8).

22

EXHIBIT S-1

E.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Systemic Risk

As described above, Euroclear Bank believes that the U.S. Equities Proposal will reduce
systemic risk associated with increase collateral obligations, by allowing collateral to be used
more efficiently, in existing and safe systems by U.S. Participants in the highly regulated
environment of Euroclear Bank.
The U.S. Equities Proposal will not create a single point of dependency; U.S. Participants today
can deliver U.S. Equities as collateral for their obligations outside of the EB-CMS and there are
multiple other providers of these services.
In addition, as a regulated settlement system operator, (I)CSD and credit institution, Euroclear
Bank is already subject to substantial oversight in light of its provision of critical infrastructure
services to the European and global market infrastructure, based on the same internationally
developed standards with regard to evaluating its financial condition, operational safeguards and
systemic risk monitoring that the Commission has recognized as substantially similar to its own
standards for registered clearing agencies.
1.

Solvency of Applicant

As a Belgian credit institution, Euroclear Bank must meet capital requirements applicable to
banks authorized in Europe imposed by the EU Capital Requirements Regulation and the EU
Capital Requirements Directive. Euroclear Bank has been assigned a AA+ rating by Fitch
Ratings and a AA rating by Standard & Poor’s. 73 In rating Euroclear Bank, ratings agencies
have emphasized Euroclear Bank’s strong and dynamic risk management framework, very low
risk profile and the strong regulatory framework under which Euroclear Bank operates. 74
Euroclear makes available on its public website the following documents, prepared in
accordance with Belgian law requirements imposed on credit institutions, that demonstrate the
strong financial position of Euroclear Bank and Euroclear Group: its group annual report, the
annual audited consolidated financial statement of ESA and the annual audited consolidated
financial statement of Euroclear Bank (both financial statements include the statutory auditor’s
reports), interim results and Euroclear Bank’s current ratings. 75 As noted in Plc’s 2015 annual
report, the Euroclear Group overall maintained a capital ratio of 40%.
Rule 17Ad-22(c)(2) – Record of Financial Resources and Annual Audited Financial Statements.
Rule 17Ad-22(c)(2) requires each clearing agency and its subsidiaries to post on its website
annual audited financial statements. Euroclear Bank and the Euroclear Group comply with this
requirement by publishing annually by the end of the first quarter following the end of its fiscal
year consolidated and stand-alone financial statements which are prepared in accordance with
73

Further information about Euroclear Bank’s ratings can be found at https://www.euroclear.com/investorrelations/financials/ratings.html.
74

Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services, RatingsDirect: Euroclear Bank S.A. (Aug. 22, 2014), available at
https://www.euroclear.com/dam/Brochures/About/Standard_and_Poors_Euroclear_Bank_Analysis.pdf.
75

Euroclear
report.html.

Annual

Reports,

available

at

https://www.euroclear.com/investorrelations/financials/annual-

23

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, and audited in
accordance with the relevant International Standards on Auditing by a registered qualified and
independent public accounting firm and include an auditor’s statement.
Rule 17Ad-22(d)(14) – Risk Controls to Address Participants Failure to Settle.
Rule 17Ad-22(d)(14) requires registered clearing agencies to institute risk controls, including
collateral requirements and limits to cover the clearing agency’s credit exposure to each
participant family. PFMI Principles 4, 5 and 7 require that an FMI effectively measure, monitor
and manage credit exposures to participants and those arising from its payment, clearing and
settlement processes including maintaining sufficient financial resources with a high degree of
confidence (Principle 4, Credit Risk), 76 that an FMI that requires collateral accepts collateral
with low credit, liquidity and market risks and enforces appropriate haircuts and concentration
limits (Principle 5, Collateral), and that an FMI effectively measure, monitor and manage
liquidity risk (Principle 7, Liquidity Risk). 77 Euroclear Bank complies with Principles 4, 5 and
7. In addition to the description of Euroclear Group and Euroclear Bank’s high-level approach to
risk management below, the 2015 EB Disclosure Report describes in detail how Euroclear Bank
complies with Principles 4, 78 5, 79 and 7. 80
Rule 17Ad-22(d)(5) – Money Settlement Risks. Rule 17Ad-22(d)(5) requires registered clearing
agencies to adopt written policies and procedures to employ money settlement arrangements that
eliminate or strictly limit the clearing agency’s settlement bank risks, that is, its credit and
liquidity risks from the use of banks to effect money settlements with its participants; and
requires funds transfers to the clearing agency to be final when effected. PFMI Principle 9
(Money Settlements) requires that “if central bank money is not used, an FMI should minimize
and strictly control the credit and liquidity risk arising from the use of commercial bank money.”
In addition to compliance with Principles 4 (Credit Risk), 5 (Collateral), 7 (Liquidity Risk) and 8
(Settlement Finality) as described above, Euroclear Bank complies with Principle 9. Euroclear
Bank does not use settlement banks to effect money settlement. Money settlement in all eligible
76

Principle 4 provides that: “An FMI should effectively measure, monitor and manage its credit exposures to
participants and those arising from its payment, clearing and settlement processes. An FMI should maintain
sufficient financial resources to cover its credit exposure to each participant fully with a high degree of confidence.
In addition, a CCP that is involved in activities with a more-complex risk profile or that is systemically important in
multiple jurisdictions should maintain additional financial resources sufficient to cover a wide range of potential
stress scenarios that should include, but not be limited to, the default of the two participants and their affiliates that
would potentially cause the largest aggregate credit exposure to the CCP in extreme but plausible market conditions.
All other CCPs should maintain additional financial resources sufficient to cover a wide range of potential stress
scenarios that should include, but not be limited to, the default of the participant and its affiliates that would
potentially cause the largest aggregate credit exposure to the CCP in extreme but plausible market conditions.”
77

Principle 7 provides that “An FMI should effectively measure, monitor and manage its liquidity risk. An FMI
should maintain sufficient liquid resources in all relevant currencies to effect same-day and, where appropriate,
intraday and multiday settlement of payment obligations with a high degree of confidence under a wide range of
potential stress scenarios that should include, but not be limited to, the default of the participant and its affiliates that
would generate the largest aggregate liquidity obligation for the FMI in extreme but plausible market conditions.”
78

See 2015 EB Disclosure Report, at 52-57.

79

See id. at 58-62.

80

See id. at 63-73.

24

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

settlement currencies is carried out on the books of Euroclear Bank, a well-capitalized, AA+
rated, de facto limited purpose bank. All EB Participants have cash accounts in the relevant
settlement currencies on the books of Euroclear Bank and money settlements are effected by
crediting and debiting the relevant cash accounts of the EB Participants. The 2015 EB
Disclosure Report describes in detail how Euroclear Bank complies with Principle 9. 81
F.

Operational Risk

Under Section 17A of the Exchange Act, applicants must demonstrate that they are so organized
and have the capacity to be able to facilitate the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of
securities transactions.
Rule 17Ad-22(d)(4) – Identification and Mitigation of Operational Risks. Rule 17Ad-22(d)(4)
requires written policies and procedures to identify sources of operational risk and minimize
them through the development of appropriate systems, controls and procedures, to implement
systems that are reliable, resilient and secure, and have adequate, scalable capacity, and to have
business continuity plans that allow for timely recovery of operations and fulfillment of a
clearing agency’s obligations. PFMI Principle 3 requires that “an FMI should have a sound
risk-management framework for comprehensively managing legal, credit, liquidity, operational
and other risks.” The 2015 EB Disclosure Report describes in detail how Euroclear Bank
complies with Principle 3. 82
In addition, PFMI Principle 17 requires that “an FMI should identify the plausible sources of
operational risk, both internal and external, and mitigate their impact through the use of
appropriate systems, policies, procedures and controls. Systems should be designed to ensure a
high degree of security and operational reliability and should have adequate, scalable capacity.
Business continuity management should aim for timely recovery of operations and fulfillment of
the FMI’s obligations, including in the event of a wide-scale or major disruption.” Euroclear
Bank complies with Principle 17, as described in detail in the 2015 EB Disclosure Report 83 and
Section H. below.
In addition to assessment against the PFMI Principles, Euroclear Bank and ESA are required to
comply with the extensive risk management obligations that apply to credit institutions under
international banking standards. Euroclear Bank and ESA are fully integrated into the Euroclear
Group’s enterprise risk management framework (“ERM”), 84 which constitutes a strong internal
control system that includes the following: (1) an extensive risk management framework; (2) an
81

See id. at 77-78.

82

See 2015 EB Disclosure Report, at 39-51.

83

See id. at 95-115.

84

Euroclear’s ERM framework is based on relevant market and regulatory standards, including the work of the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”); ISO 31000:2009 principles and
generic guidelines on risk management and ISO 27001:2005 for Information Security; the Recommendations for
Securities Settlement Systems published by the European System of Central Banks and the Committee of European
Securities Regulators; and other relevant requirements, standards and guidelines issued by international, European
and local regulatory bodies, including the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and the CPSS-IOSCO.

25

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

extensive policy framework for risk management and compliance; and (3) comprehensive
documentation of policies, management resolutions and procedures. 85 Key features of the risk
management framework are:

85

•

A risk management strategy aligned with Euroclear Group’s corporate objectives
and commensurate with its role as financial infrastructure. Risk tolerance levels
are defined and adapted annually by the Board of Directors of Euroclear Bank,
consistent with available capital, and risk tolerance levels are set by the
management annually with the objective to keep the risk profile low and stable.

•

Euroclear Group and Euroclear Bank implement an Internal Capital Adequacy
Assessment Process (ICAAP) and the Internal Capital Measurement Approach as
part of its ERM. The Euroclear Group risk management framework is reviewed
and approved by the Euroclear Bank Board of Directors. Euroclear Group
implements every pillar of the ERM framework consistently across Euroclear
Group, including Euroclear Bank. The results of the Euroclear Bank ICAAP are
expressed in capital requirements over a one-year horizon and approved by the
highest levels of Euroclear Bank and ESA Boards of Directors annually, together
with an analysis of the potential capital requirements over a five-year time
horizon reported in the capital plan. The Euroclear Bank Board of Directors
annually approves the risk and capital assessment models and the resulting capital
plan.

•

Comprehensive policies that set out how the internal control system operations
and guidelines that support repeatability of results, all within a comprehensive
documentation process.

•

An active risk register, high-level control objectives and more detailed control
objectives to identify, track and mitigate risks.

•

Responsibility for risk control at all levels that is clearly assigned, including
strong escalation and crises procedures at entity and group levels that are
regularly tested.

•

Risk management and audit functions that are separate and independent and
report directly to the Euroclear Group CEO. The head of Euroclear Group risk
management function is a member of the Management Committee of Euroclear
Bank and a member of the ESA Management Committee.

•

Review of quarterly audit and risk reports by the Euroclear Bank and ESA
Management Committees and Boards of Directors (including the Audit
Committees).

See 2015 EB Disclosure Report, at 32-51.

26

EXHIBIT S-1
•

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Risk management controls that identify and address six distinct categories of risk
(credit risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, market risk, business risk and strategic
risk).

In addition to the foregoing, the CSDR will also require the Euroclear Group (I)CSDs to
demonstrate compliance with the CSDR risk management requirements in order to obtain and
retain licenses to operate as CSDs going forward.
Euroclear provides an extensive description of its audit and risk management framework and
practices as part of its annual publication of its Disclosure Framework report. Euroclear Bank
makes this assessment available to its participants on its website, along with Euroclear Bank’s
annual response to the Association of Global Custodians (AGC) questionnaire relating to the
SEC’s Rule 17f-7 under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and Eplc’s Pillar 3 disclosure.
Euroclear Bank also makes its annual International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE)
3402 control report available to its participants and authorities. Euroclear’s external auditors
also are required to report findings annually on Euroclear Bank’s internal controls to the NBB.
Euroclear Bank notes that, in addition to Euroclear Group’s strong risk control culture and
practices that are subject to oversight by multiple European regulators in light of both local and
international standards, the Commission will have additional controls over the activities of
Euroclear Bank in the United States relating to its holding of U.S. Equity Securities. First, the
U.S. Equities Proposal will provide services for U.S. Equity Securities that are held by Euroclear
Bank at DTC either directly (in Euroclear Bank’s account at DTC) or indirectly (through
Euroclear Bank’s U.S. custodian, an entity supervised by U.S. regulators) and through accounts
at DTC subject to DTC’s normal risk control measures. As noted above, DTC will adopt rules
regarding the Euroclear Bank account to be held at DTC and the operation of such account in
relation to the JV-IMS and such rules will be subject to the normal rule adoption and review
process of the Commission for rules of self-regulatory organizations. 86
Under the proposed conditions to the modified exemption, the Commission also will receive
ongoing information from Euroclear Bank regarding the Clearing Agency Activities, including:
notice from Euroclear Bank of material changes to the U.S. Equities Clearing Agency Activities
that require amendment of Form CA-1; supplemental annual reports describing material changes
to the Clearing Agency Activities and related arrangements that would not require amendment of
Form CA-1 and describing Euroclear Bank’s process for compliance with the conditions of the
exemption order; and periodic volume reports regarding U.S. Equities Clearing Agency
Activities (in addition to periodic volume reports submitted regarding the U.S. Government
Securities Clearing Agency Activities). This additional reporting will help the Commission
consider whether fundamental changes to the U.S. Equities Clearing Agency Activities are
necessary and whether the evolution of the market for collateral management services in the
United States is introducing additional operational risks that require further oversight by the
Commission in the future. Any modified exemption order granted by the Commission pursuant
to this Modification Request will also include provisions for modification if necessary or
appropriate in the public interest, in the protection of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the
86

17 C.F.R. 240.19b-4.

27

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

purposes of the Exchange Act. The Commission may also limit, suspend or revoke any
exemption if it finds that Euroclear Bank violates or is unable to comply with any of the
provisions of the order if such action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the
protection of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of the Exchange Act. 87
1.

Cross-border aspects

In the 2015 Matching Exemption Orders, the Commission considered whether the processing of
exempted services outside of the United States would create additional risks for the U.S. market
or market participants. The Commission concluded that the commitments made by the applicant
SS&C in that situation were sufficient.
Euroclear Bank considers that the provisions it has in place, together with its long-standing
existing operations on behalf of U.S. Participants (including with respect to Eligible U.S.
Government Securities) are at least as robust in protecting its U.S. Participants as the
arrangements considered by the Commission in the 2015 Matching Exemption Orders.
Euroclear Bank’s incorporation, primary regulatory oversight and operations continue to be
located in Europe, as was the case when the Commission approved the Existing Exemption
Order. Euroclear Bank has operated with U.S. Participants fully and actively participating in its
services since it assumed operation of the Euroclear System in 2000. The U.S. Equities Proposal
will operate on the same systems that Euroclear Bank uses currently to provide its collateral
management services and, underlying this, the movements of U.S. Equity Securities to/from IMS
Linked Accounts and Collateral Accounts by U.S. Participants is undertaken by the same
systems that support the movement of Eligible U.S. Government Securities which are already
subject to the Existing Exemption Order and which the Commission already found to be
adequate to justify an exemption from clearing agency registration.
Euroclear Bank also agrees to a series of conditions to exemption described below, to ensure that
the Commission can fulfill its regulatory obligations with respect to the U.S. Equities Clearing
Agency Activities. In addition, the Commission has entered into an MOU with the Belgian
Commission Bancaire, Financière et des Assurances (“CBFA”) 88 concerning consultation and
cooperation regarding firms that are members of clearing agencies that are registered (or
otherwise exempt from registration) with the Commission.89 This MOU provides that (1) both
authorities will consult with each other regarding issues of mutual concern relating to Belgian
firms in scope of the MOU, (2) the CBFA will obtain and make available to the Commission,
upon request, information related to the oversight and financial condition of Belgian firms in
scope of the MOU and (3) both authorities will notify each other in emergency situations and
communicate appropriate information during such situations.

87

2015 Matching Exemption Orders, at 75407.

88

FSMA is the successor regulatory authority to CBFA.

89

Undertaking on Consultation and Cooperation regarding Belgian Firms that are Members of U.S. Clearing
Organizations,
available
at
https://www.nbb.be/doc/cp/nl/aboutcbfa/mou/pdf/mou_2006-07-06_
clearingorganizations.pdf.

28

EXHIBIT S-1

G.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Governance

The Commission already has concluded in granting the Existing Exemption Order that the
governance arrangements of the Euroclear Group, which provide for industry Boards of
Directors at the parent level of Euroclear plc (“Eplc”), the ultimate parent company of Euroclear
Bank, and a separate Board of Directors of Euroclear Bank is sufficiently designed to help ensure
that Euroclear Bank is operated in a manner that is consistent with the public interest and the
protection of investors. 90 While governance of Euroclear Bank has evolved with the addition of
ESA since the Existing Exemption Order was issued, the ESA board composition mirrors that of
Eplc (with the addition of executive directors).
Rule 17Ad-22(d)(8) – Governance. Rule 17Ad-22(d)(8) requires registered clearing agencies to
have governance arrangements that are clear and transparent to fulfill the public interest
requirements in Section 17A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1) applicable to clearing agencies, to
support the objectives of owners and participants and to promote the effectiveness of the clearing
agency’s risk management procedures. PFMI Principle 2 (Governance) requires that “an FMI
should have governance arrangements that are clear and transparent, promote the safety and
efficiency of the FMI and support the stability of the broader financial system, other relevant
public interest considerations and the objectives of relevant stakeholders.” In addition to the
description of Euroclear Group and Euroclear Bank’s governance arrangements above and
elsewhere in the Modification Application, the 2015 EB Disclosure Report describes in detail
how Euroclear Bank complies with Principle 2. 91
Euroclear Group’s governance includes representatives of Euroclear’s stakeholders (including
both owners and customers of the Euroclear Group services). Euroclear Bank is indirectly
wholly owned by the Euroclear Group ultimate parent company, Eplc. Eplc shares are largely
owned by users of the Euroclear Group services and the Euroclear Group’s primary Boards of
Directors (Eplc and ESA, which have the same non-executive Board members) are composed of
members drawn from a cross-section of market participants that use the Euroclear Group
services, allowing users’ interests and sensitivities to influence the decision-making process of
Euroclear Group including Euroclear Bank. In addition, independent directors not affiliated with
market participants that use the Euroclear Group’s services have been appointed to each of the
Boards of Directors of Eplc, ESA and Euroclear Bank. The representative Board of Directors of
Eplc as the ultimate parent of the Euroclear Group is responsible for:
•

ensuring that the necessary financial resources are in place to meet strategic goals;

•

all shareholder matters; and

•

setting values and standards in governance matters.

The Board of Directors of ESA is responsible for:

90

See 2001 Exemption Order, supra note 6.

91

See 2015 EB Disclosure Report, at 27-38.

29

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

•

setting group strategy and overseeing its implementation;

•

ensuring effective controls are in place to enable risk to be properly managed; and

•

setting the framework for group policies.

Users can also influence the Euroclear Group’s decision-making bodies through market advisory
committees; the CSDR will require that Euroclear Bank establishes a user market advisory
committee at the Euroclear Bank level. 92
In addition to the overarching governance of Euroclear Bank activities by the industry-led
Boards of Directors of Eplc and ESA, the Euroclear Bank Board of Directors must meet
standards of corporate governance imposed by the NBB on Belgian supervised banks and
operators of settlement system. 93 In addition, the CSDR will require that Euroclear Bank
establishes a user committee (in addition to existing Euroclear CSD market advisory groups)
specifically to provide the Euroclear Bank Board of Directors with the direct input on the views
and interests of EB Participants. 94
Euroclear Group makes information about Euroclear Group’s and Euroclear Bank’s governance
structure public in order to provide accountability to owners, clients and other stakeholders
including on Euroclear Group’s public website, along with its annual reports and financial
statements.
Euroclear Bank also has a regulatory obligation to describe how it complies with Belgian legal
and regulatory requirements on governance in a “Governance Memorandum” that it must
provide annually to the NBB for its review. In keeping with its Belgian law requirements,
directors of Euroclear Bank must be adequately qualified both with a balance of skills and
experience across the board, and include both generic skills (finance, accounting, management
and organization) and skills specific to Euroclear Bank’s business (banking, operations,
securities settlement, capital markets and IT knowledge). Euroclear Bank maintains Board
committees exclusively composed of non-executive directors (Audit, Risk, Nominations and
Governance, Remuneration) as well as a Management Committee composed of executive
directors that has responsibility for managing the business of Euroclear Bank within the strategy
and general policy decided by the Board of Directors and by Euroclear Bank’s parent company,
ESA. Euroclear Bank has adopted conflict of interest policies that apply to its Board of
Directors, management and employees. The Euroclear Bank Board of Directors also carries out

92

Regulation 909/2014 of July 23, 2014, on improving securities settlement in the European Union and on central
securities depositories (CSDs) and amending Directive 98/26/ECCSD RegOJEU, August 28 2014, L.257/1,
available at http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32014R0909&from=EN.
93

See Section II.C.1, supra.

94

Draft Technical Standards under CSDR, European Securities and Markets Authority (Sept. 28, 2015), available at
https://www.esma.europa.eu/sites/default/files/library/2015/11/2015-esma-1457_-_annex_ii_-_csdr_ts_on_csd_
requirements_and_internalised_settlement.pdf.

30

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

annual governance self-assessments and effectiveness review of the Board as a whole, the
Chairman and individual directors. 95
Euroclear Group’s and Euroclear Bank’s governance arrangements also promote effective risk
management procedures, including creating an oversight framework that fosters a focus on the
critical role that risk management plays in promoting prompt and accurate clearance and
settlement. As explained more fully above, the Euroclear Group and Euroclear Bank take risk
management very seriously and have implemented a robust risk management framework across
the Euroclear Group and adopts a “three lines of defense” model consistent with best market
practice.
Finally, as noted in the 2015 Matching Exemption Orders and above, the Commission will retain
authority to, and provisions for, modifying any modified exemption order should that prove
necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors, or otherwise in
furtherance of the purposes of the Exchange Act.
Euroclear Bank recognizes that the corporate governance of market infrastructure providers
continues to evolve as market circumstances change and it is possible that Euroclear Group
ownership and governance will continue to evolve as well. However, in such case Euroclear
Bank commits to inform the Commission of any material changes to the governance described
herein as part of its supplemental annual report to the Commission and also notes that the
ongoing continued supervision of the Euroclear Group by European securities and banking
regulators also includes ongoing review of the Euroclear Group’s governance arrangements
against international standards for providers of market infrastructure services. Therefore, should
any concerns arise about Euroclear Bank’s or Euroclear Group’s governance in the future
(notwithstanding its long-standing history as a market infrastructure provider and close
supervision by multiple European regulators), the Commission retains sufficient tools to ensure
that Euroclear Bank continues to act consistently with the public interest, the protection of
investors and the purposes of Section 17A of the Exchange Act with regard to the Clearing
Agency Activities.
Rule 17Ad-22(d)(9) – Information on Services. Rule 17Ad-22(d)(9) requires registered clearing
agencies to provide market participants with sufficient information for them to identify and
evaluate the risks and costs associated with using its services. PFMI Principle 23 (Disclosure)
requires that “An FMI should have clear and comprehensive rules and procedures and should
provide sufficient information to enable participants to have an accurate understanding of the
risks, fees and other material costs they incur by participating in the FMI. All relevant rules and
key procedures should be publicly disclosed.” The 2015 EB Disclosure Report describes how
Euroclear Bank complies with Principle 23. 96

95

The terms of reference for Euroclear Bank’s Board of Directors and its committees can be found here:
https://www.euroclear.com/investorrelations/company/corporate-governance/boards-and-committees/euroclearbank-mgmt-board.html.
96

See 2015 EB Disclosure Report, at 131-39.

31

EXHIBIT S-1

H.

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Systems Security and Integrity

As noted above, under Section 17A of the Exchange Act, applicants for exemption from
registration as a clearing agency must demonstrate that they are so organized and have the
capacity to facilitate the prompt and accurate clearing and settlement of securities transactions.
On November 19, 2014, the Commission adopted Regulation SCI, which requires covered
entities (“SCI entities”) to comply with requirements with respect to their automated systems
that support the performance of their regulated activities. 97
1.

Application of Regulation SCI to Euroclear Bank as an Exempted
Clearing Agency

The Commission adopted Regulation SCI in order to bolster the operational integrity of key U.S.
securities market participants to prevent systems issues that had resulted in trading disruptions,
compliance issues, systems intrusions and other systems issues. 98 The Commission reasoned that
the adoption of Regulation SCI would:
“advance the goals of the national market system by enhancing the capacity,
integrity, resiliency, availability, and security of the automated entities important
to the functioning of the U.S. securities markets, as well as reinforce the
requirement that such systems operate in compliance with the Exchange Act and
rules and regulations thereunder, thus strengthening the infrastructure of the U.S.
securities markets and improving its resilience when technological issues arise.”
Regulation SCI on its face is not applicable to entities that are exempted from registration as a
clearing agency, unless such entity is “an exempt clearing agency subject to the [Commission’s
Automation Review Policy (“ARP”)].” 99 In the Regulation SCI Adopting Release, the
Commission explained that it considered it appropriate that Regulation SCI apply to entities “that
play a significant role in the U.S. securities markets and/or have the potential to impact investors,
the overall market, or the trading of individual securities”. 100
At the time of adoption, only one entity that was exempted from clearing agency registration
qualified as an SCI entity, Omgeo Matching Services -- U.S. LLC (“Omgeo”), a provider of
97

Exchange Act Release No. 34-73639 (Nov. 19, 2014), 79 Fed. Reg. 72251 (Dec. 5, 2014) (“Regulation SCI
Adopting Release”).
98

See Regulation SCI Adopting Release, at 72254-56. The Commission provided examples of events where
systems issues had led to disruption and compliance issues such as delayed opening of trading, incorrect order
booking, trading halts, quote and trade reporting errors, ineffective automated surveillance programs and other
failures of automated oversight programs responsible for implementing the oversight obligations of a self-regulatory
organization.
99

Regulation SCI Adopting Release, at 72437. Rule 1000 of Regulation SCI defines an SCI entity to include “an
exempt clearing agency subject to ARP”. An exempted clearing agency subject to the ARP includes only those
entities that have as a condition to such exemption a requirement to comply to the Commission’s ARP or any
Commission regulation that supersedes or replaces such policies. Id. at 72271.
100

Id. at 72258.

32

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

trade matching and confirmation services for the U.S. equities markets. 101 The Commission has
since imposed Regulation SCI on two additional exempted clearing agencies, which also propose
to provide matching and related services. 102 The Commission concluded that it was appropriate
to include Omgeo and similarly situated exempt clearing agencies in the definition of SCI entity,
noting that Omgeo had itself stated that the application of Regulation SCI to matching and
confirmation service providers was reasonable, in light of the critical role performed by such
services in the infrastructure of the U.S. financial markets. 103
The Existing Exemption Order applicable to Euroclear Bank does not include a condition
relating to the Commission’s ARP, and therefore Euroclear Bank is not required to comply with
Regulation SCI with regard to the U.S. Government Securities Clearing Agency Activities.
Euroclear Bank believes that it is not necessary for the Commission to impose compliance with
Regulation SCI as a condition of a modified exemption order with regard to U.S. Equities
Clearing Agency Activities in order to fulfill the purposes of the Exchange Act with regard to
such order. This is primarily due to the following factors:
•

The systems that support the U.S. Equities Clearing Agency Activities are already
used to operate the Euroclear Group’s services as important market infrastructures
in multiple European countries. These systems are subject to systems integrity
assessments by multiple European home regulators of such (I)CSDs, based on
international standards and in accordance with local laws;

•

Euroclear Bank has a long history of safely operating the exact services proposed
to be exempted as U.S. Equities Clearing Agency Activities, as well as the already
exempted U.S. Government Securities Clearing Agency Activities for U.S.
Participants (which operate on the same systems and under the same risk control
framework); and

•

The U.S. Equities Clearing Agency Activities are limited in nature and will not
play a critical role to support underlying trading in U.S. Equities in the United
States.

Euroclear Bank and ESA are already held to high standards for internal controls, redundancy,
security, business continuity and disaster recovery and the other areas covered by Regulation
SCI. The Euroclear Group’s information technology environment is described in the 2015 EB
Disclosure Report and Euroclear Bank’s ISAE 3402 Report. 104
PFMI Principle 17 requires that an “FMI should identify the plausible sources of operational
risk, both internal and external, and mitigate their impact through the use of appropriate systems,
101

See id. at 72271.

102

Id. at 75409-75410.

103

Id. at 72272.

104

See ISAE 2015 Report, Section 5; see also Excerpt from Euroclear Bank 2015 report in draft, Section 5 attached
hereto.

33

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

policies, procedures and controls. Systems should be designed to ensure a high degree of
security and operational reliability and should have adequate, scalable capacity. Business
continuity management should aim for timely recovery of operations and fulfillment of the
FMI’s obligations, including in the event of a wide-scale or major disruption.” The “key
considerations” relating to Principle 17 regarding systems integrity and controls also reflect
specific requirements of Regulation SCI, including: systems review, audit, testing and change
control, capacity, physical and information security, business continuity plans, disaster recovery,
and threat identification, monitoring and management.
Euroclear Bank meets PFMI Principle 17. ESA manages a resilient, high-availability IT and
communications infrastructure that has been relied upon for many years by U.S. and
international market participants. The Euroclear System has been providing clearance and
settlement services to U.S. Participants since 1968, 105 and has operated the EB-CMS since 1993.
The U.S. Equities Clearing Agency Activities will operate on the same systems that already
support the EB-CMS service used by many U.S. Participants to meet collateral obligations with a
wide variety of assets other than U.S. Equities and used by many non-U.S. Participants with
assets including U.S. Equities.
Euroclear Group’s risk management policies are closely aligned with the PFMI Principles, as
well as the risk management recommendations of G30, the European Securities and Markets
Authority, the European Banking Authority, the European Central Bank, the Basel Committee
for Banking Supervision and the local regulation applicable to Euroclear Group’s CSD
operations. As a credit institution authorized by the NBB in Belgium, Euroclear Bank is
required to comply with Article 21, §1, 7° of the New Banking Law; Euroclear Group’s CSDs
also are subject to requirements regarding operational risk, including systems integrity. In
addition to the operational risk requirements currently imposed on Euroclear Bank in accordance
with the standards referenced above, Euroclear Bank and each Euroclear Group European CSD
must apply for a license from its home regulator, pursuant to the CSDR, in order to continue to
operate. 106
In order to meet these requirements, Euroclear Group applies a comprehensive operational risk
framework that includes systems integrity and control and business continuity planning,
requiring formal risk identification and mitigation plans, logging and monitoring of mitigation
actions, measuring risk resolution, risk monitoring, independent audit and testing. The Euroclear
Group’s risk policies are also developed and maintained in accordance with the following
industry guidelines: COSO Principle 11, ISO 31000:2009, ISO 27001:2013, as well as the
applicable local regulatory requirements and the standards and guidelines issues by the Basel
Committee. These risk policies, procedures and plans cover the elements identified above under
Principle 17 and Regulation SCI. Euroclear Bank’s compliance with the requirements of PFMI
Principle 17 are disclosed publicly in detail in the 2015 EB Disclosure Report. 107

105

As operated by MGT-Brussels, prior to the transition to Euroclear Bank in which Euroclear Bank assumed most
of the staff, systems and controls of MGT-Brussels.
106

See note 49, supra.

107

2015 EB Disclosure Report, at 95-115.

34

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

In addition, Euroclear Bank agrees to comply with the systems compliance and integrity
conditions with respect to all of the Clearing Agency Activities, as stated in Part III, C. below. 108
I.

Additional Safety and Soundness Protections
1.

Legal Framework and Transparent Participant Rules

Exhibit E and Exhibit P describe the legal framework and contractual structure Euroclear Bank.
Rule 17Ad-22(d)(1) – Robust Legal Framework; Transparent and Enforceable Rules and
Procedures. Rule 17Ad-22(d)(1) requires registered clearing agencies to have written policies
and procedures to provide for a well-founded, transparent and enforceable legal framework for
each aspect of its activities in all relevant jurisdictions. 109 PFMI Principle 1 (Legal Basis)
requires that “an FMI should have a well-founded, clear, transparent and enforceable legal basis
for each material aspect of its activities in all relevant jurisdictions.” 110 Euroclear Bank complies
with Principle 1. As described in the Modification Application and in the 2015 EB Disclosure
Report, Euroclear Bank 111 is subject to a robust regulatory framework that holds Euroclear Bank
not only to the standards articulated in the PFMI Principles as implemented in Belgium and
generally by the European Union, but also to the obligations of a credit institution.
2.

Asset Protection, Settlement and Safekeeping

Rule 17Ad-22(d)(3) – Custody of Assets and Investment Risk. Rule 17Ad-22(d)(3) requires
registered clearing agencies to have written policies and procedures to ensure that assets are held
in a manner that minimizes risk of loss or of delay in its access to them; and invest assets in
instruments with minimal credit, market and liquidity risks. PFMI Principle 16 requires that “an
FMI should safeguard its own and its participants’ assets and minimize the risk of loss on and
delay in access to these assets. An FMI’s investments should be in instruments with minimal
credit, market and liquidity risks.” Euroclear Bank complies with Principle 16, as described in
detail in the 2015 EB Disclosure Report. 112
Belgian law provides specifically for a robust asset protection rights for assets deposited in the
Euroclear System that provides for the protection of the holding in assets on the books of
Euroclear Bank. Belgian law and Euroclear Bank’s arrangements provide a high degree of
certainty for finality of transfers on Euroclear Bank’s books, for the holding of collateral in
accounts with Euroclear Bank, for the contractual framework of participant in the Euroclear
System and detailed default procedures.

108

In addition to the foregoing, Euroclear Bank has agreed to comply with DTC’s Regulation Systems Compliance
and Integrity testing requirements as set forth in DTC Rule 2. See note 28 supra.
109

17 C.F.R. 240.17Ad-22(d)(1).

110

See PFMI Report, Principle 1.

111

See 2015 EB Disclosure Report, at 21-26.

112

See id. at 93.

35

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Exhibit L to this Modification Application describes the structure of asset protection for assets
deposited in the Euroclear System. The contractual relationship between Euroclear Bank as
operator of the Euroclear System and EB Participants is defined by the Terms and Conditions, as
supplemented by the Operating Procedures and other contractual documentation. The Terms and
Conditions and Operating Procedures are governed by Belgian Law. The Terms and Conditions
require, among other things, that EB Participants agree that their rights to securities held through
the Euroclear System will be defined and governed by the Belgian Royal Decree No. 62 113 or
similar Belgian legislation governing the fungibility of securities held in the Euroclear
System. 114 The rights of EB Participants to securities held through the Euroclear System are
defined under Belgian law in a manner that is effectively similar to the definition of “security
entitlement” under Revised Article 8 of the UCC.
Under Article 23 of the Law of August 2, 2002, the FSMA is required to ensure that settlement
institutions such as Euroclear Bank take measures necessary to prevent any conflict of interest
from affecting the interests of customers and protect the rights of Euroclear Bank participants in
case of insolvency of Euroclear Bank and prevent the use by Euroclear Bank of financial
instruments belonging to clients among other prudential regulations. 115
Rule 17Ad-22(d)(11) – Default Procedures. Rule 17Ad-22(d)(11) requires registered clearing
agencies to make key aspects of the clearing agency’s default procedures publicly available and
establish default procedures that ensure that the clearing agency can take timely action to contain
losses and liquidity pressures and to continue meeting its obligations in the event of a participant
default. PFMI Principle 13 (Defaults) requires that “an FMI should have effective and clearly
defined rules and procedures to manage a participant default. These rules and procedures should
be designed to ensure that the FMI can take timely action to contain losses and liquidity
pressures and continue to meet its obligations.” Euroclear Bank complies with Principle 13, as
described in detail in the 2015 EB Disclosure Report. 116
Rule 17Ad-22(d)(12) – Timing of Settlement Finality. Rule 17Ad-22(d)(12) requires registered
clearing agencies to ensure that final settlement occurs no later than the end of the settlement
day; and require that intraday or real-time finality be provided where necessary to reduce risks.
PFMI Principle 8 (Settlement Finality) requires that “an FMI should provide clear and certain
final settlement, at a minimum by the end of the value date. Where necessary or preferable, an
FMI should provide final settlement intraday or in real time.” Euroclear Bank complies with
Principle 8 and offers both overnight and real-time settlement processing (with the point of
finality being clearly defined and documented). The 2015 EB Disclosure Report describes in
detail how Euroclear Bank complies with Principle 8. 117

113

The coordinated Royal Decree No. 62 dated Nov. 10, 1967 on the Deposit of Fungible Financial Instruments and
the Settlement of Transactions involving such Instruments (“Royal Decree 62”).
114

Terms and Conditions, Section 4(a).

115

See generally 2015 EB Disclosure Report, at 17-18.

116

See id. at 84-86.

117

See 2015 EB Disclosure Report, at 74-76.

36

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Rule 17Ad-22(d)(13) – DVP. Rule 17Ad-22(d)(13) requires registered clearing agencies to
eliminate principal risk by linking securities transfers to funds transfers in a way that achieves
delivery versus payment. PFMI Principle 12 (Exchange of Value settlement) requires that “If an
FMI settles transactions that involve the settlement of two linked obligations (for example,
securities or foreign exchange transactions), it should eliminate principal risk by conditioning the
final settlement of one obligation upon the final settlement of the other.” The Euroclear System
is a Model 1 DVP system and as such Euroclear Bank complies with Principle 12, as described
in detail in the 2015 EB Disclosure Report. 118
Rule 17Ad-22(d)(10) – Immobilization and Dematerialization of Securities Certificates.
Rule 17Ad-22(d)(10) requires registered clearing agencies to immobilize or dematerialize
securities certificates and transfer them by book entry to the greatest extent possible when the
clearing agency provides central security depository services. PFMI Principle 11 (CSD) requires
that “a CSD should have appropriate rules and procedures to help ensure the integrity of
securities issues and minimize and manage the risks associated with the safekeeping and transfer
of securities. A CSD should maintain securities in an immobilized or dematerialized form for
their transfer by book entry.” Euroclear Bank complies with Principle 11 and the 2015 EB
Disclosure Report describes in detail such compliance. 119 Euroclear Bank notes that the U.S.
Equity Securities that will be available pursuant to the U.S. Equities Proposal will be transferred
only by book-entry on the books of Euroclear Bank and will be deposited at DTC (either directly
or indirectly).
Rule 17Ad-22(d)(15) – Physical Delivery Risks. Rule 17Ad-22(d)(15) requires registered
clearing agencies to state to its participants the clearing agency’s obligations with respect to
physical deliveries and identify and manage the risks from these obligations. Euroclear Bank’s
compliance with PFMI Principle 10 (Physical Deliveries) is described in the EB 2015 Disclosure
Report. 120 However, this requirement is not applicable to Euroclear Bank’s U.S. Equities
Clearing Agency Activities, as Euroclear Bank will not hold U.S. Equity Securities that are part
of the U.S. Equities Clearing Agency Activities in physical form (all U.S. Equity Securities that
are part of the U.S. Equities Clearing Agency Activities will be held by Euroclear Bank at DTC
either directly or indirectly) and Euroclear Bank will not process physical deliveries of U.S.
Equity Securities on behalf of U.S. Participants.
3.

Access

Exhibit E, Exhibit O and Exhibit P describe the participant access criteria of Euroclear Bank;
Exhibit G describes the structures under which Euroclear Bank links with third parties.
Rule 17Ad-22(d)(2) – Participant Requirements. Rule 17Ad-22(d)(2) requires registered
clearing agencies to have written policies and procedures that require participants to have
sufficient financial resources and robust operational capacity to meet obligations arising from
participation in the clearing agency and have procedures in place to monitor that participation
118

See id. at 83.

119

See id. at 80-82.

120

See id. at 79.

37

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

requirements are met on an ongoing basis and have participation requirements that are objective
and publicly disclosed, and permit fair and open access. PFMI Principle 18 requires that “an FMI
should have objective, risk-based and publicly disclosed criteria for participation, which permit
fair and open access.” Euroclear Bank complies with Principle 18, as described in detail in the
2015 EB Disclosure Report. 121
Rule 17Ad-22(d)(7) – Links. Rule 17Ad-22(d)(7) requires registered clearing agencies to
evaluate the potential sources of risks that can arise when the clearing agency establishes links
either cross-border or domestically to clear or settle trades, and ensure that the risks are managed
prudently on an ongoing basis. PFMI Principle 20 (FMI Links) requires that “an FMI that
establishes a link with one or more FMIs should identify, monitor and manage link-related
risks.” Euroclear Bank complies with Principle 20, as described in detail in the 2015 EB
Disclosure Report. 122
III.

Exemption Order Request and Conditions

Euroclear Bank requests that the Commission issue a modified exemption order on the basis of
the information provided in Euroclear Bank’s amended Form CA-1 application, that will (1)
continue the exemption from clearing agency registration with respect to U.S. Government
Securities Clearing Agency Activities under substantially the same conditions as provided for
under the Existing Exemption Order, (2) broaden the exemption to provide authority for
Euroclear Bank to provide the U.S. Equities Clearing Agency Activities (as defined below)
under new conditions applicable to those Activities, and (3) apply harmonized conditions to the
exemption with respect to certain systems compliance and integrity conditions and the
Commission’s access to general ongoing information common to both types of Clearing Agency
Activities.
A.

Continuation of Existing Exemption Order on substantially same conditions
specific to U.S. Government Securities Clearing Agency Activities

With regard to the Existing Exemption Order, Euroclear Bank specifically requests that:
1.

The modified exemption order will continue the authority granted in the
Existing Exemption Order to Euroclear Bank to provide clearance,
settlement, and collateral management services for its U.S. Participants’
transactions in Eligible U.S. Government Securities (“U.S. Government
Securities Clearing Agency Activities”) without registering as a clearing
agency with the Commission; and

2.

The scope of the exemption, the securities covered by the exemption and
defined as “Eligible U.S. Government Securities”, and the definition of
“U.S. Participants” covered by the exemption remain unchanged from the

121

See 2015 EB Disclosure Report, at 116.

122

See id. at 123.

38

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Existing Exemption Order with respect to U.S. Government Securities
Clearing Agency Activities; and
3.

4.

B.

The following conditions of the Existing Exemption Order with regard to
the U.S. Government Securities Clearing Agency Activities continue in
effect, unchanged from the 2001 Exemption Order:
(a)

Volume Limit. The average daily volume of eligible U.S.
government securities processed through Euroclear Bank as
operator of the Euroclear System may not exceed five percent of
the total average daily dollar value of the aggregate volume in
eligible U.S. government securities.

(b)

Commission Access to Information regarding U.S. Government
Securities Clearing Agency Activities. Euroclear Bank will
continue to provide the Commission with quarterly reports,
calculated on a twelve-month rolling basis, of (1) the average daily
volume of transactions in eligible U.S. government securities for
U.S. Participants that are subject to the volume limit as described
in Section IV.C.2 of the 1998 Exemption Order and (2) the average
daily volume of transactions in eligible government securities for
all Euroclear System participants, whether or not subject to the
volume limit as described in Section IV.C.2 of the 1998 Exemption
Order; and

The following conditions of the Existing Exemption Order with regard to
the U.S. Government Securities Clearing Agency Activities are replaced
and superseded by the conditions in Section D below (Additional
Conditions Applicable to all Clearing Agency Activities):
(a)

the obligations in Section IV.C.3 of the 1998 Exemption Order to
provide disclosure documents to the Commission;

(b)

the obligations in Section IV.C.3 of the 1998 Exemption Order to
file with the Commission amendments to its application for
exemption on Form CA-1; and

(c)

the obligations in Section IV.C.3 of the 1998 Exemption Order to
notify the Commission regarding material adverse changes in any
account maintained by Euroclear for its U.S. Participants and to
respond to a Commission request for information about any U.S.
Participant about whom the Commission has financial solvency
concerns.

Broadening the Existing Exemption Order to Authorize Euroclear Bank to
perform U.S. Equities Clearing Agency Activities subject to additional conditions

39

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

1.

Scope of Exemption with regard to U.S. Equities Clearing Agency
Activities

Euroclear Bank requests that the Commission grant to Euroclear Bank the authority to provide,
without registering as a clearing agency with the Commission, the “U.S. Equities Clearing
Agency Activities,” which shall consist of:

2.

(a)

the provision of clearing agency services (such as certain central
securities depository services 123 and collateral management
services) in relation to U.S. Participants’ use and reuse of Equity
Securities 124 issued by U.S. Issuers 125 (“U.S. Equity Securities”)
in support of collateral obligations utilizing the collateral
management services provided by Euroclear Bank in relation to
any securities or cash account at Euroclear Bank that is used to
receive collateral (“Collateral Accounts”), in connection with the
services described in (b) below and in connection with receipt and
delivery from other Euroclear System participants that are users of
such collateral management services provided by Euroclear Bank;
and

(b)

solely for the purpose of implementing the services described in
(a) above, the provision of certain clearing agency services for
U.S. Participants’ receipt and delivery of U.S. Equity Securities in
relation to collateral management services through accounts held
at Euroclear Bank that are linked to Euroclear Bank’s account held
at The Depository Trust Company.

Operational Conditions Relating to U.S. Equities Clearing Agency
Activities

Euroclear Bank agrees to the following conditions of exemption with regard to the U.S. Equities
Clearing Agency Activities:
(a)

123

Euroclear Bank shall provide to the Commission or its designee
quarterly reports, calculated on a twelve-month rolling basis, of
(i) the average daily value of U.S. Equity Securities that are held in

The term “central securities depository services” means such term as defined in 17 C.F.R. 240.17Ad-22(a)(2).

124

As used herein, the term “Equity Security” refers to an instrument that represents a direct ownership in a
company, such as a stock, share, certificate of interest or participation in any profit sharing agreement,
preorganization certificate of subscription, voting trust certificate or certificate of deposit for an equity security,
limited partnership interest, interest in a joint venture or certificate of interest in a business trust. However, the term
“Equity Security” does not include interests in structured finance vehicles such as limited partnerships, business
trusts or similar arrangements that have no independent operations and are used solely as special purpose financing
vehicles.
125

As used herein, the term “U.S. Issuer” refers to an issuer organized or incorporated under the laws of any state of
the United States, territory thereof, or the District of Columbia.

40

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Collateral Accounts at Euroclear Bank for U.S. Participants and a
break-down of the general types of Euroclear Bank collateral
agreements in respect of which such value is given as collateral,
(ii) the average daily value of U.S. Equity Securities that are held
in Euroclear Bank’s account at the Depository Trust Company
relating to inventory management services, and (iii) the total value,
and a break-down of the general types of Euroclear Bank collateral
agreements in respect of which such value is given as collateral, of
U.S. Equity Securities that are transferred from Collateral
Accounts of U.S. Participants at Euroclear Bank to other Securities
Clearance Accounts at Euroclear Bank (other than IMS-Linked
Accounts) pursuant to a liquidation of such collateral.
C.

Systems Compliance and Integrity Conditions

Euroclear Bank agrees to the following conditions of exemption with regard to the U.S. Equities
Clearing Agency Activities and the U.S. Government Securities Clearing Agency Activities
(together, the “Clearing Agency Activities”):
1.

Euroclear Bank shall demonstrate to the Commission prior to commencing
the U.S. Equities Clearing Agency Activities that Euroclear Bank
maintains written policies and procedures applicable to those systems that
support or are integrally related to the Clearing Agency Activities (the
“Systems”) that are reasonably designed to achieve the following:
(a)

establish a robust operational risk-management framework
applicable to the Systems with appropriate systems, policies,
procedures, and controls to identify, monitor, and manage
operational risks;

(b)

clearly define the roles and responsibilities of Euroclear Bank
personnel for addressing operational risk;

(c)

review operational policies, procedures, and controls applicable to
the Systems;

(d)

audit the Systems, and test the Systems periodically and at
implementation of significant changes;

(e)

clearly define operational reliability objectives for the Systems;

(f)

ensure that the Systems have scalable capacity adequate to handle
increasing stress volumes and achieve the Systems service-level
objectives;

(g)

establish comprehensive physical and information security policies
that address all potential vulnerabilities and threats to the Systems;

41

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

(h)

establish a business continuity plan for the Systems that addresses
events posing a significant risk of disrupting the Systems’
operations, including events that could cause a wide-scale or major
disruption in the provision of the Clearing Agency Activities;

(i)

incorporate the use of a secondary site in Euroclear Bank’s
business continuity plan that is designed to ensure that the Systems
can resume operations within two hours following disruptive
events;

(j)

regularly test or otherwise validate Euroclear Bank’s business
continuity plans; and

(k)

identify, monitor, and manage the risks that key participants, other
financial market infrastructures and service and utility providers
might pose to the Systems’ operations in relation to the Clearing
Agency Activities.

2.

Euroclear Bank shall provide the Commission with a yearly update on the
status of the items set forth in condition 1.

3.

Euroclear Bank shall establish, implement, maintain, and enforce written
policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that the Systems
operate in a manner that complies with the conditions of the amended
exemption and Euroclear Bank’s rules and governing documents, as
applicable to the Clearing Agency Activities.
(a)

Upon Euroclear Bank having a reasonable basis to conclude that a
disruption, compliance issue, or intrusion of the Systems that
impacts, or is reasonably likely to impact, the Clearing Agency
Activities has occurred (a “Systems Event”), Euroclear Bank
shall:
(i)

notify the Commission of such Systems Event within
24 hours after occurrence;

(ii)

until such time as a Systems Event is resolved and
Euroclear Bank’s investigation of the Systems Event is
closed, provide updates pertaining to such Systems Event
to the Commission on a regular basis;

(iii)

within 48 hours after the occurrence of a Systems Event or
where Euroclear Bank reasonably determines that such
deadline cannot be met and so notifies the Commission,
promptly thereafter, submit an interim written notification
pertaining to such Systems Event to the Commission
containing: (a) A detailed description of: the relevant

42

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

discovery and duration times, detection, root cause and
remedial actions taken or planned regarding the Systems
Event (to the extent known at report time); Euroclear
Bank’s assessment of the entities (including types of
market participants) and Euroclear Bank services affected
by the Systems Event; Euroclear Bank’s assessment of the
impact of the Systems Event on the Participants; and any
other pertinent information known by the Euroclear Bank
about the Systems Event; and (b) A copy of any
information disseminated to Euroclear Bank’s U.S.
Participants in accordance with Euroclear Bank’s
notification practices regarding the Systems Event; and
(iv)

(b)

4.

within ten business days after the occurrence of a Systems
Event, or where Euroclear Bank reasonably determines that
such deadline cannot be met and so notifies the
Commission, promptly thereafter, submit a written final
report regarding the matters covered in the interim report
required under (iii) above.

For the purposes of the amended exemption: (1) a “disruption”
means an event in the Systems that significantly disrupts or
degrades, or is likely to significantly disrupt or degrade, the normal
operation of the Systems in relation to the Clearing Agency
Activities or may have medium term impact on U.S. Participants
using the Clearing Agency Activities or where the impact or likely
impact of such event cannot be reasonably established; (2) a
“compliance issue” means an event at Euroclear Bank that has
caused any System to operate in a manner that does not comply
with the Amended Exemption or Euroclear’s rules and governing
documents applicable to the Clearing Agency Activities; and (3) an
“intrusion” means any unauthorized entry into the Systems that
significantly disrupts or degrades, or is likely to significantly
disrupt or degrade, the normal operation of the Systems in relation
to the Clearing Agency Activities or may have medium term
impact on U.S. Participants using the Clearing Agency Activities
or where the impact or likely impact of such event cannot be
reasonably established.

Euroclear Bank shall, within 30 calendar days after the end of each
quarter, submit to the Commission a report describing completed,
ongoing, and planned material changes to the Systems that support or are
related to the Clearing Agency Activities during the prior, current, and
subsequent calendar quarters, including the dates or expected dates of
commencement and completion.
(Euroclear Bank shall establish

43

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

reasonable written criteria for identifying a change to the Systems as
material and report such changes in accordance with such criteria.)

D.

5.

Euroclear Bank shall provide the Commission with: (i) annually, the
audited control report made available to Euroclear Bank’s Participants
prepared in accordance with internationally accepted standards for
assurance reports on controls at a service organization (such as the
International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) Standard No.
3402); (ii) annually, copies of those portions of any annual control report
provided by Euroclear Bank to its primary Belgian regulator that describe
controls applicable to the Systems as used to support or in relation to the
Clearing Agency Activities; and (iii) copies of agendas, reports and
presentation materials relating to the capacity, integrity, resiliency,
availability, and security or compliance of the Systems that are provided
by Euroclear Bank or its primary Belgian regulator to any committee of
regulators that implements the memorandum of understanding among
regulators of Euroclear Group’s CSD entities that provides for the
coordinated and common oversight and supervision of the Euroclear
Group.

6.

Euroclear Bank shall make, keep, and preserve at least one copy of all
documents relating to its compliance with these conditions; keep all such
documents for a period of not less than five years, the first two years in a
place that is readily accessible to the Commission or its representatives for
inspection and examination; and upon request of the Commission,
promptly furnish to the possession of such representative copies of any
such documents.

Additional Conditions Applicable to all Clearing Agency Activities

Euroclear Bank agrees to the following additional conditions to exemption of the U.S. Equities
Clearing Agency Activities or the U.S. Government Securities Clearing Agency Activities
(together, the “Clearing Agency Activities”).
1.

Euroclear Bank shall provide to the Commission or its designee its annual
audited financial statements prepared by competent independent audit
personnel.

2.

Euroclear Bank shall notify the Commission or its designee of any
material changes to any service agreement between Euroclear Bank and
any other entity that is performing Exempted Clearing Agency Services on
behalf of Euroclear Bank if such changes are reasonably expected to
materially affect the Exempted Clearing Agency Services.

3.

Euroclear Bank will notify the Commission or its designee (i) promptly
following termination of any U.S. Participant as a Participant in the
Euroclear System, (ii) promptly following the liquidation by Euroclear

44

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

Bank of any securities collateral pledged by a U.S. Participant to
Euroclear Bank to secure an extension of credit made through the
Euroclear System, and (iii) promptly following Euroclear Bank becoming
aware of the institution of any proceedings to have a U.S. Participant
declared insolvent or bankrupt, and will respond to Commission requests
for information about any U.S. Participant about whom the Commission
has financial solvency concerns, including, for example, a settlement
default by a U.S. Participant.
4.

Euroclear Bank shall annually provide to the Commission or its designee a
report describing: (i) material changes to the arrangements described in
this Order that would not otherwise require amendment of Euroclear
Bank’s application for exemption on Form CA-1 in accordance with these
conditions; (ii) the functioning of Euroclear Bank’s policies and
procedures for monitoring its own compliance with the conditions of this
order regarding the Clearing Agency Activities (and the compliance of any
affiliated or third-party service provider referred to in condition C.2); and
(iii) the management by Euroclear Bank of any conflicts of interest of such
affiliated or third-party service provider that Euroclear Bank becomes
aware have arisen since the prior report with respect to the performance of
the Clearing Agency Activities.

5.

Euroclear Bank shall keep records relating to the Clearing Agency
Activities regarding settlement details, account details, service
agreements, and service notices sent to U.S. Participants pertaining to the
operation of the Clearing Agency Activities and retain such records for a
period of not less than five years, the first two years in an easily accessible
place (which may be located in the European Union).

6.

Euroclear Bank shall respond to and require its service providers to
respond to a request from the Commission for additional information
relating to the Clearing Agency Activities and provide access to the
Commission to conduct on-site inspections of all facilities (including
automated systems and systems environment), records, and personnel
related to the Clearing Agency Activities. The request for information
shall be made and the inspections shall be conducted solely for the
purpose of reviewing the Clearing Agency Activities’ operations and
compliance with the federal securities laws and the terms and conditions
in any order exempting Euroclear Bank from registration as a clearing
agency with regard to the Clearing Agency Activities.

7.

Euroclear Bank shall file with the Commission amendments to its
application for exemption on Form CA-1 if it makes any material change
to the Clearing Agency Activities or any change materially affecting the
Clearing Agency Activities as summarized in the relevant exemption
order, Euroclear Bank’s amended Form CA-1 or in any subsequently filed

45

EXHIBIT S-1

EUROCLEAR BANK SA/NV

amendments to its Form CA-1 that would make such previously provided
information incomplete or inaccurate.
8.

IV.

The Commission may modify by order the terms, scope or conditions of a
modified exemption order from registration as a clearing agency if it
determines that such modification is necessary or appropriate in the public
interest, the protection of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the
purposes of the Exchange Act. Furthermore, the Commission may limit,
suspend, or revoke the exemption if it finds that Euroclear Bank has
violated or is unable to comply with any of the provisions set forth in a
modified order if such action is necessary or appropriate in the public
interest, for the protection of investors or otherwise in furtherance of the
purposes of the Exchange Act.

Conclusion

Euroclear Bank considers that it is unnecessary to require Euroclear Bank to register as a
clearing agency in order to provide the U.S. Equities Clearing Agency Activities, based on the
comprehensive regulatory oversight of Euroclear Bank, the existing arrangements of Euroclear
Bank that substantially satisfy the regulatory standards applicable to clearing agencies registered
in the United States, the limited scope of the Modification Request and the other tools available
to the Commission to monitor and make ongoing assessment of the U.S. Equities Clearing
Agency Activities through exemption order conditions and Euroclear Bank’s additional
commitments described herein.

46

