UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 71274 / January 9, 2014
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-11359

In the Matter of
Alliance Capital Management, LP
Respondent.

ORDER AMENDING THE PLAN OF
DISTRIBUTION

On March 13, 2008, the Commission published a Notice of Proposed Plan of Distribution
(“Plan”) proposed by the Division of Enforcement in connection with this proceeding (Securities
Exchange Act Rel. No. 57489). The Commission received no comments and on May 15, 2008,
the Plan was approved (Exchange Act Rel. No. 57825).
The Plan provides that a Fair Fund be distributed by the Fund Administrator 1 to injured
investors according to the methodology set forth in the Plan. 2 To date, of the approximately
$346.4 million disbursed, a residual amount of approximately $61.9 million remains
undistributed. 3 This amount is currently in the Plan’s Final Settlement Account.

1

Capitalized terms in this order, unless otherwise noted, refer to defined terms in the approved Plan.

2

In addition to approximately $27.3 million in interest earned to date, the Fair Fund is comprised of
$321,230,003 in disgorgements and civil penalties, $250 million of which comes from the Alliance
settlement, $70.38 million from the Daniel Calugar settlement, and a total of $850,003 paid by Alliance
officers Malone, Carifa and Laughlin, as described in the order approving the Plan. See Exchange Act Rel.
No. 57825.

3

By Order Directing Disbursement of Fair Fund dated January 22, 2009, the Commission ordered the first
disbursement, composed of $46,166,264.96. See Exchange Act Rel. No. 59280. By Order Directing
Disbursement of Fair Fund dated February 11, 2009, the Commission ordered the second disbursement,
composed of $79,178,672.81. See Exchange Act Rel. No. 59389. By Order Directing Disbursement of
Fair Fund dated March 31, 2009, the Commission ordered the third disbursement, composed of
$63,141,852.24. See Exchange Act Rel. No. 59657. By Order Directing Disbursement of Fair Fund dated

Section 3.7.5 of the Plan provides that any residual amount in the Final Settlement
Account, after all Fair Fund assets have been distributed to injured investors, be remitted to the
Alliance Funds, based on the proportion of Adjusted Losses incurred in each Alliance Fund, after
provisions for any taxes have been made and prior to the termination of the Fair Fund. The
current residual amount is $61,884,846.69, which includes $4,745,346.31 in checks that were
refused or returned, $20,424,661.03 in checks that were deemed undeliverable and
$33,305,305.77 in checks that were delivered but uncashed. Upon further consultation with the
Commission staff, the Independent Distribution Consultant (“IDC”) and the Fund Administrator
have determined that certain enhanced measures described below (“Enhanced Measures”),
beyond those in the Plan and already implemented, could result in more checks being cashed by
eligible harmed investors with uncashed payments (“Unpaid Distributees”). Therefore,
consistent with the Plan’s primary object to distribute funds to affected investors at the time of
the misconduct and with the concurrence of the IDC and Alliance, the Plan is amended as
follows:
A. Checks Previously Refused or Returned: Working with the IDC, the Fund
Administrator shall reissue and mail previously refused or returned checks of $5,000
or more for which new custodian or beneficiary information has become available
since the last distribution tranche. Additional commercially reasonable best efforts, if
necessary, may be made by the Fund Administrator in consultation with the IDC and,
as appropriate, the Commission staff, if the IDC or Fund Administrator becomes
aware of new custodian or beneficiary information for the distribution of any
previously refused or returned check prior to the completion of the Enhanced
Measures.
B. Checks Previously Deemed Undeliverable: (1) For all checks of $5,000 or more
previously deemed undeliverable, the Fund Administrator shall conduct manual
tracing activities, including, but not limited to, manual LexisNexis searches, research
on the internet, research in proprietary databases, and research on FINRA’s website.
The Fund Administrator shall mail all checks of $5,000 or more previously deemed
undeliverable using either the new information from the manual searches or existing
information in the Fair Fund’s database for those checks for which new information
cannot be obtained. In addition, two days after the checks are mailed (“Check
Mailing Date”), the Fund Administrator shall mail a courtesy letter in a form
reviewed and approved by the Commission staff (“Courtesy Letter”), via first class
mail, to Unpaid Distributees reminding them about the 90-day stale date of the
recently mailed checks and encouraging them to cash their checks before the deadline.

April 28, 2009, the Commission ordered the fourth disbursement, composed of $49,910,496.49. See
Exchange Act Rel. No. 59832. By Order Directing Disbursement of Fair Fund dated May 14, 2009, the
Commission ordered the fifth disbursement, composed of $56,642,634.13. See Exchange Act Rel. No.
59926. By Order Directing Disbursement of Fair Fund dated August 5, 2009, the Commission ordered the
sixth disbursement, composed of $46,942,173.23. See Exchange Act Rel. No. 60446. By Order Directing
Disbursement of Fair Fund dated May 31, 2011, the Commission ordered the seventh disbursement,
composed of $9,738,605.02. See Exchange Act Rel. No. 64568.

2

The Fund Administrator shall mail additional Courtesy Letters two weeks and then
six weeks after the Check Mailing Date to Unpaid Distributees with delivered but
outstanding checks. Furthermore, the Fund Administrator shall engage in a live
calling campaign to encourage Unpaid Distributees with checks outstanding after six
weeks to cash their checks. In support of the live calling campaign, and working with
the Fund Administrator, the IDC shall engage in commercially reasonable best efforts
to research telephone numbers for Unpaid Distributees and attempt up to two live
calls each to Unpaid Distributees with outstanding checks.
(2) For all previously deemed undeliverable checks of $1,000 or more, but less than
$5,000, the Fund Administrator shall reissue and mail these checks, via first class
mail, using existing information in the Fair Fund’s database or any new forwarding
address that becomes known to the IDC or Fund Administrator prior to the
completion of the Enhanced Measures.
C. Checks Previously Delivered but Uncashed: (1) The Fund Administrator shall
reissue and mail, via first class mail, all previously delivered but uncashed checks of
$100 or more (but less than $1,000). Two days after the Check Mailing Date, the
Fund Administrator shall send Courtesy Letters to the Unpaid Distributees, via first
class mail, reminding them about the 90-day stale date of the checks and encouraging
them to cash the checks before the deadline.
(2) The Fund Administrator also shall reissue and mail, via first class mail, all
previously delivered but uncashed checks of $1,000 or more. The Fund
Administrator shall send Courtesy Letters to Unpaid Distributees, via first class mail,
reminding them about the recently mailed checks two days after the Check Mailing
Date, with additional Courtesy Letters to be mailed two weeks and then six weeks
after the Check Mailing Date to Unpaid Distributees with delivered but outstanding
checks.
(3) For delivered checks of $1,000 or more that remain outstanding after six weeks
from the Check Mailing Date, the Fund Administrator shall research and locate phone
numbers and attempt up to two live calls each to Unpaid Distributees reminding them
about the deadline and encouraging them to cash their checks before the deadline.
(4) If any of the previously delivered but uncashed checks are returned as
undeliverable, the standard search process outlined in Section 4.5 of the Plan shall be
implemented. If any of these checks of $5,000 or more are returned as undeliverable
and the standard search process fails to lead to a delivered check, the manual search
process for undeliverable checks described in Paragraph B(1) above shall be
implemented.
D. Issuance of Checks: The Fund Administrator, in coordination with the IDC, shall
issue and mail checks to Unpaid Distributees that are identified as a result of the
Enhanced Steps as soon as practicable. The IDC shall have discretion, subject to

3

Commission staff’s approval, to request that the Fund Administrator reissue and mail
any other checks consistent with the Plan, as amended.
E. Stale Dates for Issued Checks: Checks issued as a result of the Enhanced Measures
shall have a stale date of 90 days after issuance. The IDC may, in his discretion,
request that the Fund Administrator reissue a check which was issued pursuant to this
Amended Order authorizing the Enhanced Measures, but only if the request for
reissuance is post-marked before the stale date of the original check (i.e., within 90
days after the original issuance). Any check so reissued will have a stale date no later
than 60 days after the stale date of the originally issued check.
F. Costs of Enhanced Measures: Alliance will pay, but shall be reimbursed from the
Fair Fund, for the fees and expenses of the IDC and the Fund Administrator that are
attributable to the Enhanced Measures, subject to review and approval by the
Commission staff. Such reimbursable costs, however, are not to exceed $600,000
(“Total Reimbursable Amount”). Fees and expenses of the IDC and the Fund
Administrator which are not attributable to the Enhanced Measures, as determined by
the Commission staff, shall be borne by Alliance in accordance with the
Commission’s Amended Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist
Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 203(e) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act
of 1940, and Sections 9(b) and 9(f) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, Making
Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order, against
Alliance Capital Management, L.P., dated January 15, 2004, and shall not be
reimbursed from the Fair Fund. Accordingly, fees and expenses attributable to the
Enhanced Measures, but which exceed the Total Reimbursable Amount shall not be
reimbursed.
G. Amount to be Reserved from the Residual: The amount of $605,000 will be reserved
from the Fair Fund’s Final Settlement Account (“Reserved Amount”) to pay: (1) the
Total Reimbursable Amount of the Enhanced Measures as described above; (2)
estimated tax liabilities of the Fair Fund; and (3) any other obligations of the Fair
Fund. The remainder of the Final Settlement Account shall be available to cover
check issuances that result from the Enhanced Measures and for the resolution of
inquiries and disputes in accordance with Section 4.9 of the Plan prior to the Residual
Distribution.
H. The Residual Distribution: Any amount remaining in the Final Settlement Account,
less the Reserve Amount, after the completion of the Enhanced Measures shall be
considered the Residual and shall be distributed to the affected Alliance Funds in
accordance with the Plan.
I. Remaining Amount to be Disbursed to Treasury: Any amount remaining in the Fair
Fund after the Residual Distribution and payment of Fair Fund’s obligations shall be
disbursed to Treasury in accordance with Section 10.2 of the Plan.

4

J. Certification of Completion of Enhanced Measures: The Fund Administrator and the
IDC shall each submit a certification to the Commission staff attesting to the
completion of all steps required by the Enhanced Measures prior to, or
contemporaneously with, the submission of a validated payment file for the Residual
Distribution.
Accordingly, it is ORDERED that:
1. Pursuant to Rule 1105(g) of the Fair Fund Rules, 17 C.F.R. § 201.1105(g), that the
Plan is amended as described above;
2. The Secretary is authorized to issue, but shall delay the issuance of an Order Directing
Disbursement of up to $33.1 million to injured investors upon the Secretary’s receipt
of a certification by the Commission staff that a validated payment file has been
received and accepted by the Commission staff in accordance with the Plan.
3. The Secretary is authorized to issue, but shall delay the issuance of an Order Directing
Disbursement of the Fair Fund’s Residual of at least $28.2 million but not more than
$61.9 million to the eligible Alliance Funds, upon the Secretary’s receipt of a
certification by the Commission staff that the validated payment file has been
received and accepted by the Commission staff in accordance with the Plan.

By the Commission.

Elizabeth M. Murphy
Secretary

5

