UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
February 19, 2016

In the Matter of
AI Document Services, Inc.,
Creative Edge Nutrition, Inc. and
Interactive Health Network.

ORDER OF SUSPENSION
OF TRADING

File No. 500-1

It appears to the Securities and Exchange Commission that there is a lack of
current and accurate information concerning the securities of AI Document Services, Inc.
because of questions concerning the accuracy and adequacy of publicly available
information about the company, including, among other things, the control of the
company and trading in its securities. AI Document Services, Inc. is a Delaware
corporation with its principal offices in Atlanta, Georgia and its common stock is quoted
on OTC Link (previously “Pink Sheets”) operated by OTC Markets Group, Inc. (“OTC
Link”) under the ticker symbol AIDC.
It appears to the Securities and Exchange Commission that there is a lack of
current and accurate information concerning the securities of Creative Edge Nutrition,
Inc. because of questions concerning the accuracy and adequacy of publicly available
information about the company, including, among other things, the control of the
company and trading in its securities. Creative Edge Nutrition, Inc. is a Nevada

corporation with its principal offices in Beverly Hills, California and its common stock is
quoted on OTC Link under the ticker symbol FITX.
It appears to the Securities and Exchange Commission that there is a lack of
current and accurate information concerning the securities of Interactive Health Network
because of questions concerning the accuracy and adequacy of publicly available
information about the company, including, among other things, the control of the
company and trading in its securities. Interactive Health Network is a Nevada
corporation with its principal offices in Reno, Nevada and its common stock is quoted on
OTC Link under the ticker symbol IGRW.
The Commission is of the opinion that the public interest and the protection of
investors require a suspension of trading in the securities of the above-listed companies.
THEREFORE, IT IS ORDERED, pursuant to Section 12(k) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, that trading in the securities of the above-listed companies is
suspended for the period from 9:30 a.m. EST on February 19, 2016, through 11:59 p.m.
EST on March 3, 2016.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

