UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 76013 / September 29, 2015
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-16846
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934, MAKING FINDINGS, AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
UBS FINANCIAL SERVICES
INCORPORATED OF PUERTO RICO
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in
the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant
to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against UBS
Financial Services Incorporated of Puerto Rico (“UBSPR” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, UBSPR has submitted an Offer of
Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the purpose
of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are
admitted, UBSPR consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings
Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and
Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and UBSPR’s Offer, the Commission finds1 that:

The findings herein are made pursuant to UBSPR’s Offer and are not binding on any other person or entity
in this or any other proceeding.
1

-1-

SUMMARY
1.
UBSPR failed reasonably to supervise Jose G. Ramirez Jr. (“Ramirez”) with a
view to preventing and detecting his violations of the federal securities laws from at least 2011
through 2013. Ramirez, a UBSPR registered representative, made material misrepresentations
and engaged in a fraudulent scheme involving the use of proceeds of non-purpose lines of credit
(“LOC”) to purchase securities. UBSPR offered its customers LOCs from a Utah-based affiliate,
UBS Bank USA (“BUSA”). UBSPR’s internal policy and the customer’s loan agreements with
BUSA prohibited the use of LOC proceeds to purchase, carry, or trade in securities; rather, LOCs
were to be used to provide existing customers with liquidity and immediate access to cash to
cover other purchases or expenses.
2.
However, Ramirez effected a scheme that resulted in an increase to his
compensation by soliciting certain customers to use proceeds from LOCs to purchase additional
shares in UBSPR closed-end funds (“CEFs”). So that holders can qualify for certain tax
benefits, the CEFs predominantly hold Puerto Rico municipal bonds and are only available to
Puerto Rico residents. Ramirez misrepresented to certain customers UBSPR’s policy prohibiting
the use of LOC proceeds to purchase securities by advising them to transfer money from their
UBSPR LOC account to an outside bank account, wait a few days, and then deposit money from
the outside bank account into the customer’s UBSPR brokerage account and purchase CEFs.
Ramirez also made material misrepresentations to these customers regarding the safety of this
strategy and did not disclose the risks of maintenance calls BUSA could make in the event the
value of the customer’s account (including its CEF holdings) decreased below specified levels of
collateralization. Ramirez offered and sold approximately $50 million in CEFs to certain
customers and made over $1 million in additional compensation.
3.
UBSPR did not establish or implement reasonable procedures and had inadequate
systems in place designed to prevent and detect Ramirez’s conduct and his misstatements and
omissions advocating the use of LOC proceeds to purchase securities in contravention of
UBSPR’s policy and the customers’ agreements with BUSA. Moreover, UBSPR was made
aware on at least two occasions that Ramirez may have been violating that policy, yet UBSPR
procedures failed to address reasonable follow-up for violations of this policy.
RESPONDENT
4.
UBSPR, a Puerto Rico corporation with its principal place of business in Hato
Rey, Puerto Rico, is a broker-dealer registered with the Commission since 1982. UBSPR is a
subsidiary of UBS Financial Services Inc. (“UBSFSI”), a broker-dealer registered with the
Commission.
OTHER INDIVIDUALS AND ENTITIES
5.
Jose G. Ramirez Jr., 56, was a registered representative and associated person of
UBSPR in UBSPR’s Guaynabo branch and was also a sales manager in that branch for a brief
period of time. Ramirez was terminated by UBSPR in January 2014. Ramirez has been
permanently barred from association with any FINRA member in any capacity.

-2-

6.
Ramiro L. Colon, III, 49, was a registered representative and associated person of
UBSPR, and was the branch office manager (“BOM”) in UBSPR’s Guaynabo office from 2007
through 2014 where he served as Ramirez’s supervisor. From early 2011 through 2014 Colon
was also the BOM of the Ponce and Mayaguez branches in addition to the Guaynabo branch
(collectively, the Guaynabo Complex). Since January 2015, Colon is employed as a registered
representative and associated person of UBSFSI, and is a financial advisor at UBSFSI and no
longer serves in a supervisory capacity.
7.
BUSA is a Salt Lake City, Utah-based FDIC-insured industrial bank organized
and licensed since 2003. BUSA is regulated by the Utah Department of Financial Institutions,
the FDIC and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
8.
The CEFs are closed-end investment management companies incorporated and
organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. Since 1995, UBSPR has offered
its customers twenty-three CEFS, nine of which are co-managed CEFs and fourteen of which are
sole managed CEFs. UBSPR has served as primary underwriter for the twenty-three CEFs. The
CEFs are not eligible margin securities or traded on any exchange or quoted on any quotation
service, with UBSPR serving as the main secondary market dealer or liquidity provider. The
CEFs are not registered with the Commission.
UBSPR’s LINE OF CREDIT PROGRAM
9.
In approximately 2003, BUSA began offering UBSPR brokerage customers a
non-purpose line of credit through UBSPR at no initial cost to the customer and at interest rates
below interest rates charged for margin loans. UBSPR encouraged registered representatives to
open LOCs for new customers. Registered representatives were incentivized to offer LOCs, in
part, because they received compensation based on an additional production credit and, in 2013,
credit for net new assets when an LOC was drawn upon.
RAMIREZ’S VIOLATIVE CONDUCT
10.
From 2011 through 2013, Ramirez offered and sold millions of dollars of CEFs to
certain customers while soliciting them to use LOCs to purchase such securities and fraudulently
misrepresenting the risks of this strategy to them. Ramirez knew that UBSPR policy and the
customers’ agreements with BUSA did not allow customers to use proceeds from the LOCs for
the purpose of purchasing securities. Moreover, Ramirez signed LOC application forms
misrepresenting that he had explained to those customers that: (1) BUSA can demand repayment
of the loan at any time and (2) if the value of the pledged collateral falls below BUSA’s
maintenance requirements BUSA may require the customer to deposit additional collateral
and/or sell the pledged collateral to repay the loan.
11.
Despite the prohibitions on doing so, Ramirez presented to certain customers a
way to make additional money by using the LOCs to increase their holdings of the CEFs.
Because customers could borrow money through LOCs at rates as low as 1.5 percent and the
CEFs were generating tax advantaged returns of greater than 6 percent, there was an arbitrage
opportunity for customers and Ramirez also saw an opportunity to increase his production and
commissions if customers purchased additional CEF shares with the proceeds of LOCs. To
-3-

accomplish his scheme, Ramirez encouraged these customers to withdraw funds from their LOC
accounts, deposit those funds into an account at another bank, wait several days, and then redeposit the funds from the outside bank account into a UBSPR brokerage account and purchase
CEFs.
12.
Ramirez misrepresented the strategy to numerous customers. When asked about
the purpose of the deposit and redeposit, Ramirez explained to certain customers that one could
not transfer money from an LOC internally to another UBSPR account. However, Ramirez
stated that there was no violation as long as the proceeds were first transferred to an outside bank
account. In meetings with these customers, to reassure them of the propriety of his strategy,
Ramirez would take a dollar bill out of his wallet and say “if I give you this dollar and you bring
[a different dollar] back next month, it’s not the same dollar.” Many of Ramirez’s customers had
been with Ramirez for many years and made money by going along with Ramirez’s
recommendations and strategies and knew of his standing within UBSPR as a top broker.
Therefore, they either wrote a check or requested a wire transfer from their LOC account for
deposit into their personal bank accounts at outside banking institutions. Customers then
redeposited money into their UBSPR brokerage accounts and Ramirez purchased CEF shares on
behalf of his customers contrary to UBSPR policy and their agreement with BUSA.
13.
By advising certain customers to use LOC proceeds to purchase CEF shares,
Ramirez exposed customers – some of whom were listed in their account documents as being
“conservative” with regard to risk tolerance – to a greater risk than they otherwise would have
been exposed. From January 2011 through September 2013, Ramirez executed more than 200
trades on behalf of customers in connection with this scheme. By September 2013, these
Ramirez customers had received tens of millions of dollars in maintenance calls from BUSA
after the value of their CEF shares declined.
UBSPR’S FAILURE REASONABLY TO SUPERVISE
14.
UBSPR’s “Credit Line Products WM Americas Compliance Policy” required that
a credit line obtained from the firm must be used for purposes other than to purchase, trade, or
carry securities. The customers’ agreements with BUSA contained similar prohibitions, which
also appeared on the face of the loan checks that customers received. The policy also required
that, as part of the application process, registered representatives take reasonable steps to ensure
customers understood the risks associated with taking a LOC, including that their collateral may
become insufficient due to market declines and, in such circumstances, the customer may be
required to increase the collateral, repay funds borrowed and/or sell securities voluntarily or
involuntarily via a maintenance call.
15.
However, UBSPR’s policy did not provide for how the policy should be
implemented nor did it describe steps registered representatives should take to ensure customers
understood the risks involved. Although BUSA monitored transfer activity between UBSPR
brokerage accounts for potential misuse of LOCs, UBSPR’s policy did not implement any
procedures concerning monitoring the proscribed and prohibited conduct when proceeds were
transferred outside of UBSPR accounts.

-4-

16.
UBSPR had inadequate procedures or systems in place to address compliance
with its policy after the application process was completed and once the LOC was approved by
BUSA. Indeed, UBSPR’s Branch Office Managers’ Supervisory Manual only addressed the
application process and did not speak to the usage of LOCs once approved. Further, supervisors
and operations personnel in the Guaynabo branch, where Colon served as supervisor and
Ramirez worked, received no reports concerning credit line usage (other than compensation and
production), and therefore did not conduct reviews for whether customers were using LOC
proceeds to purchase securities, even though they were responsible for making sure registered
representatives followed firm policy.
17.
In August 2011, an operations manager in the Guaynabo branch questioned a
series of transactions in the accounts of a Ramirez customer which she believed could have been
the result of improper use of LOC proceeds to purchase securities. The operations manager
raised her concerns to her supervisor, the Complex Administrative Manager (“CAM”), who took
the information to Colon, who then met with Ramirez and discussed the transaction. Although
Ramirez strenuously denied any impropriety, Colon reviewed the customer profile and discussed
the activity with the CAM but conducted no additional investigation or monitoring and never
discussed with the customer his usage of LOC proceeds or these specific transactions. Weeks
later, the operations manager noticed a similar series of transactions by the same Ramirez client.
Again, the operations manager raised the issue with the CAM. Upon hearing the concerns, and
instead of escalating the issue, the CAM did not raise the issue with Colon or anyone else.
18.
In addition, UBSPR failed to establish reasonable policies and procedures for
follow-up of indications of misuse of LOCs. In the fall of 2011, the branch office manager in
UBSPR’s Hato Rey office – UBSPR’s main branch – raised concerns to UBSPR’s compliance
group and asked it to investigate whether UBSPR registered representatives were improperly
encouraging customers to use LOC proceeds to purchase securities. The compliance group
contacted a compliance officer for BUSA who stated BUSA ran a report with the ability to track
whether or not purchases had been made in accounts being used as collateral for LOCs within a
certain time from a withdrawal and transfer from the LOC. It was not understood, however, that
this report would not have captured the activity at issue because the money was first sent outside
the firm before being redeposited and used to purchase securities. Until these events became
known, UBSPR did not have a system in place to track LOC money moved outside the firm and
then returned to the firm.
19.
The Hato Rey manager followed up with the compliance group at various times in
2012 and was ultimately informed that compliance found no improper conduct. However,
although certain reports were run, they were not adequately reviewed and, in any event, the
Guaynabo branch was not included in the reports because of a clerical mistake that was not
noticed. The compliance group’s failure to adequately review this LOC information, including
activity in the Guaynabo branch, was a significant lapse. Despite having twenty percent fewer
registered representatives than UBSPR’s headquarters in Hato Rey, Guaynabo branch customers
had $475 million in total LOCs as of July 2013, nearly double Hato Rey’s portfolio. Also,
Ramirez was UBSPR’s leading credit line producer among registered representatives in Puerto
Rico during this period.

-5-

20.
In 2013, the Puerto Rico bond market collapsed. The significant erosion in Puerto
Rico bond prices beginning in August 2013 hit Puerto Rico investors hard, and particularly CEF
holders, because the CEFs employed leverage up to 50 percent of the total CEF assets.
21.
Many of Ramirez’s customers with LOCs collateralized by brokerage accounts
holding CEFs began receiving maintenance calls starting in August of 2013 and met with
UBSPR representatives to discuss outstanding maintenance calls. During these meetings certain
customers informed UBSPR representatives, including Colon, that Ramirez solicited them to use
proceeds from LOCs to reinvest in additional CEF shares. Ramirez did not inform many of these
customers of the risk associated with doing so.
22.
As a result of these meetings with customers and related complaints, UBSPR
conducted an internal investigation into the conduct alleged in the complaints. This review
uncovered further incidences of using LOC proceeds to purchase CEF shares by certain
customers of Ramirez. As a result, UBSPR terminated Ramirez and issued to Colon a letter of
education for inaction related to this improper use of LOCs.
VIOLATIONS AND FAILURE REASONABLY TO SUPERVISE
23.
Under Section 15(b)(4)(E) of the Exchange Act, broker-dealers are responsible
for reasonably supervising, with a view to preventing and detecting violations of the federal
securities laws, persons subject to their supervision. Respondent was responsible for supervising
Ramirez.
24.
Ramirez engaged in conduct that violated Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of
1933, which prohibits fraudulent conduct in the offer and sale of securities, and Section 10(b) of
the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct in connection
with the purchase or sale of securities. Respondent failed reasonably to supervise Ramirez for
the purposes of Section 15(b)(4)(E) of the Exchange Act because Respondent failed to establish
procedures reasonably designed to prevent and detect Ramirez’s violations of the securities laws
and failed to have a system to implement any such procedures in a manner that would reasonably
be expected to prevent and detect the violations by Ramirez.
AGREEMENT TO COOPERATE
25.
In connection with this action and any related judicial or administrative
proceeding or investigation commenced by the Commission or to which the Commission is a
party, Respondent (i) agrees to use all best efforts to make its principals, partners, officers, and
employees available to appear and be interviewed by Commission staff at such times and places
as the staff requests upon reasonable notice; (ii) will accept service by mail or facsimile
transmission of notices or subpoenas issued by the Commission for documents or testimony at
depositions, hearings, or trials, or in connection with any related investigation by Commission
staff; (iii) appoints Respondent’s counsel as agent to receive service of such notices and
subpoenas; (iv) with respect to such notices and subpoenas, waives the territorial limits on
service contained in Rule 45 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and any applicable local
rules, provided that the party requesting the testimony reimburses Respondent’s travel, lodging,
and subsistence expenses at the then-prevailing U.S. Government per diem rates; and (v)
-6-

consents to personal jurisdiction over Respondent in any United States District Court for
purposes of enforcing any such subpoena.
In determining whether to accept the Offer, the Commission has considered this
agreement to cooperate.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest
to impose the sanctions agreed to in UBSPR’s Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act, it is hereby ORDERED
that:
A.

UBSPR is censured.

B.
UBSPR shall, within 14 days of the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement of
$1,188,149.41, plus prejudgment interest of $174,196.97, to the Securities and Exchange
Commission. If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC
Rule of Practice 600. UBSPR shall, within 14 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money
penalty in the amount of $13,637,653.62 to the Securities and Exchange Commission. If timely
payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717.
Payment must be made in one of the following ways:
(1)

Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission,
which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon
request;

(2)

Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
UBSPR as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy
of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Glenn S. Gordon, Division of
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, Miami Regional Office, 801 Brickell
Avenue, Suite 1800, Miami, Florida 33131.

-7-

C.
Pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, a Fair
Fund is created for the disgorgement, prejudgment interest and penalties referenced in Section
IV, Paragraph B above. Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this
Order shall be treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax
purposes. To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any
Related Investor Action, it shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor shall it benefit by, offset or
reduction of any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s
payment of a civil penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”). If the court in any Related Investor
Action grants such a Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that it shall, within 30 days after entry of
a final order granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay
the amount of the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a payment
shall not be deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of
the civil penalty imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor
Action” means a private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or
more investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the
Commission in this proceeding.
By the Commission.
Brent J. Fields
Secretary

-8-

