UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78582 / August 16, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17391
ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
AND CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS,
PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 15(b) AND 21C
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934, MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASEAND-DESIST ORDER

In the Matter of
JOHN L. SHIPLEY
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted pursuant to Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange
Act”), against John L. Shipley (“Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondent consents
to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-And-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to
Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Exchange Act, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions
and a Cease-And-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:

1

Summary
These proceedings arise out Respondent’s participation as an unregistered broker-dealer in the
offer and sale of securities by JCS Enterprises, Inc. and T.B.T.I., Inc. in interstate commerce. In April
2014, the Commission charged JCS Enterprises, Inc. d/b/a JCS Enterprises Services, Inc. (“JCS”), and
T.B.T.I., Inc. (“T.B.T.I.”), and their principals, with the ongoing offer and sale of securities
nationwide to investors, operating a Ponzi scheme and defrauding investors in a related civil action
alleging securities fraud in federal district court: SEC v. JCS Enterprises, Inc., et al., Case No. 14cv-80468-DMM (S. D. Fla). JCS and its principal, Joseph Signore, and T.B.T.I. and its principal,
Paul L. Schumack, II, in offering the securities, falsely promised hundreds of investors nationwide
that their funds would be used to purchase ATM-like machines called Virtual Concierge Machines
(“VCMs”) that businesses could use to advertise products and services via touch screen and printable
tickets or coupons. However, Signore and Schumack and their companies, instead, paid returns to
earlier investors using money from newer investors, and failed to locate, place and manage the
purported VCMs. Respondent, acting as unregistered sales agents of JCS and T.B.T.I. offered and
sold JCS’s and T.B.T.I.’s investment contracts in JCS’ Virtual Concierge program and earned
transaction-based compensation from each sale.
Respondent
1.
Respondent, John L. Shipley, 41, is a resident of Bossier City, Louisiana.
Respondent solicited and sold investment contracts in VCMs to multiple investors. Respondent
does not hold any securities licenses, and has never been registered as or associated with a
registered broker- dealer.
Other Relevant Entities
2.
JCS is a Delaware corporation, incorporated in 2011, with its principal place of
business in Jupiter, Florida. JCS is currently a defendant in SEC v. JCS Enterprises, Inc., et al.,
Case No. 14-cv-80468-DMM.
3.
T.B.T.I. is a Florida corporation, incorporated in 2001, with its principal place of
business in Highland Beach and/or Boca Raton, Florida. T.B.T.I. is currently a defendant in SEC
v. JCS Enterprises, Inc., et al., Case No. 14-cv-80468-DMM.
Other Relevant Individuals
4.
Joseph Signore, 51, was Chairman and President of JCS. He resides in West Palm
Beach, Florida. Signore is currently a defendant in both SEC v. JCS Enterprises, Inc., et al.,
Case No. 14-cv-80468-DMM, and United States v. Signore et al., 14-cr-80081-DTKH.
5.
Paul L. Schumack, II, 58, was President of T.B.T.I., and resides in Pompano
Beach, Florida. Schumack is currently a defendant in both SEC v. JCS Enterprises, Inc., et
al., Case No. 14-cv-80468-DMM, and United States v. Signore et al., 14-cr-80081-DTKH.

2

Facts
6.
From at least 2011, JCS and T.B.T.I. through and at the direction of their
respective principals Signore and Schumack fraudulently raised at least $60 million from sales
of securities to hundreds of investors nationwide. Signore and Schumack fraudulently
guaranteed exorbitant returns, ranging from 80 to 120% annually and up to 500% over the life of
a three- or four-year investment contract, by guaranteeing a $300 monthly return for the life of
the contract.
7.
Signore and Schumack represented to investors their money would be invested in
the Virtual Concierge program through JCS and T.B.T.I. Investors’ participation in the Virtual
Concierge program was entirely passive. Investors relied on the companies to place, locate and
manage their investments. None of these investors were told about any risks associated with the
program including the return of principal or payment of returns. JCS and T.B.T.I. promised to
pay investors $300 a month per VCM. These returns were purportedly to be generated by
“advertising revenue.” The companies did not require investors to pay additional fees, expenses
or costs, and would purportedly inform investors about the location of their VCMs and provide
account updates.
8.
JCS and T.B.T.I., through their principals, touted the VCMs as a revolutionary
product and a fail-safe passive investment. In reality, however, they operated a Ponzi scheme,
where, through numerous misrepresentations and omissions, they used new investor funds to
make payments to earlier investors. The purported source of income, advertising revenue, was
actually miniscule. The majority of investors stopped receiving their monthly payments in
January 2014 when the scheme collapsed.
Respondent Acted as an Unregistered Broker-Dealer
9.
Respondent, from approximately October 2012 through late 2013, received
$366,678 in transaction-based compensation from JCS and T.B.T.I. in exchange for soliciting
and securing investors through the use of telephone and/or email.
10.
While regularly participating in these securities transactions and receiving
transaction-based compensation from JCS and T.B.T.I., Respondent was not registered or
associated with a registered broker-dealer. As a result of the conduct described above,
Respondent acted as an unregistered broker-dealer in willful violation1 of Section 15(a) of the
Exchange Act, which makes it unlawful for any broker or dealer to use the mails or any other
means of interstate commerce to “effect any transactions in, or to induce or attempt to induce
the purchase or sale of, any security” unless that broker or dealer is registered with the
1

A willful violation of the securities laws means merely “‘that the person charged with the duty knows what he is
doing.’” Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000) (quoting Hughes v. SEC, 174 F.2d 969, 977 (D.C. Cir.
1949)). There is no requirement that the actor “‘also be aware that he is violating one of the Rules or Acts.’” Id.
(quoting Gearhart & Otis, Inc. v. SEC, 348 F.2d 798, 803 (D.C. Cir. 1965)).

Commission in accordance with Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest
to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Shipley’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Pursuant to Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent Shipley cease
and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Section 15(a)(1)
of the Exchange Act.
B.
Respondent John L. Shipley be, and hereby is barred from association with any
broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent,
nationally recognized statistical rating organization, and is barred from participating in any
offering of penny stock including: acting as a promoter, finder, consultant, agent or other person
who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for purposes of the issuance or trading
in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the purchase or sale of any penny stock.
C.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the
applicable laws and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned
upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the
following: (a) any disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission
has fully or partially waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to
the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization
arbitration award to a customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for
the Commission order; and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or
not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order.
D.
Respondent is liable to pay disgorgement, which represents profits gained as a
result of the conduct described herein of $366,678 and prejudgment interest of $15,822 to the
Securities and Exchange Commission. If timely payment is not made, additional interest
shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600.
E.
Respondent shall, within 30 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money
penalty of $7,500 to the Securities and Exchange Commission. If timely payment is not made,
interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717.
F.

Payments pursuant to this Order must be made in one of the following ways:
(1)
(2)

Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which
will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;
Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or
4

(3)

Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying John
Shipley as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of
the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Russell Koonin, Securities and Exchange
Commission, 801 Brickell Avenue, Miami, FL, 33131.
G.
Pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, a Fair
Fund is created for the disgorgement, interest and penalties referenced in paragraph IV.D and E,
above. Regardless of whether any such Fair Fund distribution is made, amounts ordered to be paid
as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be treated as penalties paid to the government
for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty,
Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor Action, he shall not argue that he is entitled to, nor
shall he benefit by, offset or reduction of any award of compensatory damages by the amount of
any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset"). If the court in
any Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that he shall, within
30 days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in
this action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change
the amount of the civil penalty imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a
"Related Investor Action" means a private damages action brought against Respondent by or on
behalf of one or more investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order
instituted by the Commission in this proceeding.
H.
All funds paid by Respondent pursuant to this Order shall be transferred to the
Receiver appointed in SEC v. JCS Enterprises, Inc., et al., 14-80468-CV-DMM (Southern District
of Florida) to be distributed for the benefit of investor victims according to a distribution plan to be
approved by the court in that litigation. In the event the receivership has been terminated and the
payments due under paragraphs IV.D and E have not been made in full, then the remaining
payments made by Respondent to the Commission shall be transmitted to the U.S. Treasury.

5

V.
It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by
Respondent, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other
amounts due by Respondent under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree
or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by
Respondent of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set
forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19).
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

6

