UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78569 / August 12, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17384
In the Matter of

ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

IZAK ZIRK DE MAISON
(F/K/A) IZAK ZIRK
ENGELBRECHT,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Izak Zirk de
Maison (f/k/a) Izak Zirk Engelbrecht (“Respondent” or “Engelbrecht”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s
jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the findings contained in
paragraphs III.2 and III.4 below, and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative
Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set
forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Between at least January 2009 and December 2010, Engelbrecht conducted a
scheme to defraud investors in Lenco Mobile Inc. (“Lenco”), an issuer with common stock
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act that was subject to Exchange Act

reporting obligations pursuant to Section 13(a). Among other things, Engelbrecht continuously
solicited investments in Lenco’s securities without being registered with the Commission as a
broker or dealer. Engelbrecht, 59 years old, resides at the Northeast Ohio Correctional Center in
Youngstown, Ohio.
Respondent participated in an offering of Lenco stock, which was a penny stock.
2.
On October 13, 2015, a final judgment was entered by consent against Respondent,
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 5 and 17(a) of the Securities Act of
1933, and Sections 9(a), 10(b), and 15(a)(1) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder in the
civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Jason Cope et al., Civil Action
Number 14 Civ. 7575, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York.
3.
The Commission’s Amended Complaint alleged that Respondent defrauded
investors by, inter alia, paying undisclosed commissions to registered representatives to buy Lenco
and other issuers’ stock in their customers’ accounts, and matching trades with those registered
representatives. The complaint also alleged that Respondent sold unregistered securities and
solicited investors to purchase Lenco and other issuers’ stock without being registered with the
Commission as a broker or dealer.
4.
On April 2, 2015, Respondent pled guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit
securities fraud, 18 U.S.C. § 1348, 15 U.S.C. §§ 78j(b) and 78ff, and wire fraud, 18 U.S.C. § 1343,
in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1349; one count of securities fraud in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1348;
one count of securities fraud in violation of 15 U.S.C. §§ 78j(b) and 78ff, and 17 C.F.R. § 240.10b5; and four counts of wire fraud in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1343 before the United States District
Court for the Northern District of Ohio, in United States v. Izak Zirk De Maison, Crim.
Information No. 1:15-cr-117.
5.
The counts of the criminal information to which Respondent pled guilty alleged,
inter alia, that Respondent defrauded investors and obtained money and property by means of
materially false and misleading statements, and that he caused others to use wire communications
in interstate commerce to transfer investor funds to him that the investors believed to be
investments in issuers he controlled.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Engelbrecht’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act,
that Respondent Engelbrecht be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer,
investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally
recognized statistical rating organization; and

2

Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent Engelbrecht be, and hereby is
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder,
consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for
purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the
purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

