UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 79123 / October 19, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17636
In the Matter of

ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

MIGUEL MESA
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Miguel Mesa,
a/k/a Michael Mesa (“Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s
jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the findings contained in
Section III.2 below, and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings
Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing
Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Mesa, age 56, a resident of Miami Lakes, Florida, hired unregistered sales agents
to offer and sell to investors the securities of Sanomedics, Inc., and Fun Cool Free, Inc. In 2004
and 2007, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) charged Mesa in separate
civil injunctive actions alleging antifraud violations involving trading in futures contracts and

options. CFTC v. Brickell Key Financial, LLC, et. al., Case No. 04-22549-CIV-PAS (S.D.FL.
2004); CFTC v. First International Group, Inc., Case No. 06-20979-CIV-AJ (S.D.FL. 2006).
Final judgments were entered against Mesa enjoining him from future violations of laws related
to commodities futures transactions and he was permanently barred from the commodities
industry. Mesa is not, and was not at the time of the conduct described herein, registered with
the Commission as a broker or dealer.
2.
On October 13, 2016, a final judgment was entered by consent against
Respondent, permanently enjoining him from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities
Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Sections 10(b) and 15(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5
thereunder, in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Sizer, et al., Civil
Action Number 16-cv-24106-JAL, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of
Florida.
3.
The Commission’s complaint alleged that Respondent offered and sold
Sanomedics and Fun Cool Free securities to individual investors while acting as an unregistered
securities broker. In addition, hundreds of investors were defrauded through a boiler room
whose unregistered sales agents were hired by Respondent. The Commission further alleged that
Respondent made misrepresentations and omissions to investors that investor funds would be
used by Sanomedics and Fun Cool Free to develop the companies’ businesses, and that no
commissions or fees would be charged to investors. Respondent also participated in a fraudulent
scheme by misappropriating millions of dollars of investor proceeds for personal expenses and
also used proceeds to pay undisclosed commissions to unregistered sales agents.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act,
that Respondent be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment
adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized
statistical rating organization.

2

Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

