UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78852 / September 15, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17539
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
FRANCIS W. KREAIS,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Francis W. Kreais
(“Kreais” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the purpose
of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings and the
findings contained in Section III.2, below, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of
this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth
below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Kreais, age 55, is a resident of Helena, Ohio. Kreais operates his own business
called Kreais Home Improvements, LLC. Prior to starting his home improvement business, he was
a manager of a RV park located in Beaumont, California.
2.
On September 13, 2016, a judgment was entered by consent against Kreais,
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 5(a), 5(c) and 17(a) of the Securities
Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Sections 10(b) and 15(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5
thereunder, in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Francis W. Kreais
et al., Civil Action Number 4:16-cv-00402-BLW, in the United States District Court for the
District of Idaho.
3.
The Commission’s complaint alleged that, in connection with the sale of investment
contracts, Kreais misused and misappropriated investor funds, falsely stated to investors that their
investments were safe and liquid, and otherwise engaged in a variety of conduct which operated as
a fraud and deceit on investors. The complaint also alleged that Kreais offered and sold securities
of Arco Hills Silica Company in unregistered transactions, and offered and sold securities of Arco
Hills Silica Company as an unregistered broker or dealer.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Kreais’ Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act,
that Respondent Kreais be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer,
investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally
recognized statistical rating organization; and
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent Kreais be, and hereby is
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder,
consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for
purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the
purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a

2

customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

