UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-15098

In the Matter of
CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES (USA)
LLC; DLJ MORTGAGE CAPITAL,
INC.; CREDIT SUISSE FIRST
BOSTON MORTGAGE ACCEPTANCE
CORP.; CREDIT SUISSE FIRST
BOSTON MORTGAGE SECURITIES
CORP.; AND ASSET BACKED
SECURITIES CORPORATION,
Respondents.

:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:

PLAN OF DISTRIBUTION
BULK SETTLEMENT PRACTICE
A.

Introduction
1.

On November 16, 2012 the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC” or

“Commission”) issued an Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings pursuant to Section 8A
of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making
Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”) 1 against Credit Suisse Securities
(USA) LLC, DLJ Mortgage Capital, Inc., Credit Suisse First Boston Mortgage Acceptance
Corp., Credit Suisse First Boston Mortgage Securities Corp., and Asset Backed Securities
Corporation (“Respondents”). The Order provided that, pursuant to Section 308(a) of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, two separate fair funds may be created for the
disgorgement, interest and penalties paid by Respondents. This Plan of Distribution (“Plan”)
1

See Securities Act Rel. No. 9368 (November 16, 2012).

1

refers solely to the fair fund to be created by an order of the Commission in conjunction with the
request for Commission approval of the Plan for the Bulk Settlement Practice (“Fair Fund”).
2.

The Order stated that from approximately 2005 through 2010, Respondents

entered into a number of financial settlements with loan originators related to early defaulting
loans that Respondents had previously sold to residential mortgage backed securities (“RMBS”)
trusts it sponsored (“Trusts”). The assets of the Trusts were aggregations of residential
mortgages. Each Trust was divided into numerous “tranches” or classes which were securitized
interests in the assets of the relevant Trust. For example, virtually all of the Trusts had at least
one tranche that had rights to only the interest paid by the underlying residential mortgages and
another tranche that had rights to only the repayment of the principal of the underlying
residential mortgages. Many variations of these rights existed for the Trusts. The securities that
represented the different tranches of each of the Trusts are referred to as “Certificates.”
3.

When Respondents entered into the financial settlements with loan originators,

Respondents kept the proceeds of those settlements without notifying or passing the proceeds on
to the RMBS Trusts (“Bulk Settlement Practice”). Respondents failed to disclose this practice to
its RMBS investors. Additionally, with respect to certain RMBS transactions, Credit Suisse
failed to comply with offering document provisions that required it to repurchase certain early
defaulting loans. As a result of this conduct, Respondents improperly obtained $55,747,769.
4.

Pursuant to the Order, Respondents paid disgorgement of $55,747,769,

prejudgment interest of $13,000,000, and a civil money penalty of $33,000,000 for conduct
related to the Bulk Settlement Practice, for a total of $101,747,769 to be distributed to harmed
investors from the Fair Fund.
5.

The purpose of this distribution is to compensate investors in RMBS Trusts

harmed by Credit Suisse’s misrepresentations and omissions in its offering materials regarding

2

the Bulk Settlement Practice. The distribution methodology allocates the Fair Fund amongst the
RMBS Trusts based on the proportion of the total ill-gotten gains obtained by Credit Suisse
through the Bulk Settlement Practice attributable to loans owned by each Trust. The funds are
then allocated to each Trust’s Eligible Claimants based on the proportion of their claim to all
other Eligible Claims for the Trust.
6.

Pursuant to the Order, Respondents will pay all reasonable administrative costs

and expenses of the distribution, including the fees and expenses of the Tax Administrator and
Fund Administrator. The Tax Administrator and Fund Administrator will submit invoices
directly to Respondents for payment with copies to Commission staff.
7.

The Commission has custody of the assets which will comprise the Fair Fund and

shall retain control of the assets of the Fair Fund. The assets are currently deposited in a
Commission designated interest bearing account at the United States Department of the Treasury
(“Treasury”), where they will be held until a disbursement occurs. It is not anticipated that the
Fair Fund will receive additional funds, other than accumulated interest and earnings from
investments.
8.

The Commission appointed Damasco & Associates, LLP as the Tax

Administrator on December 4, 2012. 2
9.

The Commission issued an order appointing Gilardi & Company, LLC (“Gilardi”)

as the Fund Administrator on January 14, 2014. 3 Pursuant to the order, Gilardi has obtained a
bond in accordance with Rule 1105(c) of the Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund and
Disgorgement Plans in the amount of $101,747,769. The amount of the bond premium will be
paid by Respondents.

2

See Order Appointing Tax Administrator, Exchange Act Rel. No. 68349 (December 4, 2012).
See Order Appointing Fund Plan Administrator and Setting Administrator Bond Amount, Exchange Act Rel. No.
71300 (January 14, 2014).

3

3

10.

This Plan sets forth the methods and procedures for distributing the Fair Fund.

This Plan is subject to approval by the Commission, and the Commission retains jurisdiction
over the implementation of this Plan.
B.

Definitions
As used herein, the following definitions shall apply:
11.

“Claim Deficiency Notice” means the notice sent by the Fund Administrator to a

Potentially Eligible Claimant whose claim is deficient in one or more ways (e.g., failure to
provide required information or documentation). The Claim Deficiency Notice shall advise the
Potentially Eligible Claimant of the reason(s) for the deficiency and the opportunity to cure such
deficiency. Subject to certain extensions provided for in this Plan, the deadline to cure
deficiencies shall be thirty (30) days from the date of the Claims Deficiency Notice.
12.

“Credit Suisse Bulk Settlement Practice Fair Fund” or “Fair Fund” shall refer to

all proceeds paid by the Respondents to comply with the Order including disgorgement,
prejudgment interest and civil penalties, plus any accumulated interest and earnings thereon.
13.

“Days” shall mean calendar days, unless specified otherwise.

14.

The “Distribution De Minimis Amount” is $250.00. No Eligible Claimant shall

receive a distribution payment unless the preliminary calculation performed pursuant to
paragraphs 55 through 59, below, is equal to or greater than $250.00. For purposes of satisfying
the Distribution De Minimis Amount requirement, the preliminary calculation for each Harmed
Trust will stand on its own and any request that it be combined with any other preliminary
calculations for other Harmed Trusts, Recognized Claims for other Harmed Trusts, or other
Proof of Claim Forms submitted by or relating to the same Eligible Claimant will not be allowed.
15.

“Eligible Claimants” shall mean persons (other than Excluded Parties) who

purchased Eligible Securities on Eligible Purchase Dates.

4

16.

“Eligible Purchase Dates” shall mean purchases of Eligible Securities in a Trust

which were made within 30 days of the published date of the relevant prospectus supplement for
that Trust. The Eligible Purchase Dates are identified on Exhibit A to this Plan.
17.

“Eligible Securities” shall mean the certificates in the Harmed Trusts that are

identified in Exhibit A to this Plan. Excluded certificates include those certificates identified in
the relevant prospectus supplements as “Non-Offered Certificates” and those Certificates
designated “A-R”, “ARL” or other residual certificates with negligible initial principal value.
Exhibit A to this Plan lists the Harmed Trusts, Eligible Securities for each Trust, and the Eligible
Purchase Dates for each Trust.
18.

“Excluded Parties” shall mean Respondents and all other entities or individuals

who (a) are or have at any time been a parent, subsidiary, affiliate, partner, or member of
Respondents; (b) exercised control of or were controlled by the Respondents; or (c) during the
period 2005 to the present, were employed by, or served as officers or directors, or were
members of the Respondents or any other entity that is deemed to be an Excluded Party pursuant
to parts (a) and (b) hereof. The Proof of Claim Form (defined in ¶ 26 below) will require all
Potentially Eligible Claimants (defined in ¶ 25 below) to certify that that they are not an
Excluded Party.
19.

“Filing Deadline” shall mean the date established in accordance with

this Plan by which a Potentially Eligible Claimant’s Proof of Claim Form must be received by
the Fund Administrator or postmarked to avoid the barring of any right of the Potentially Eligible
Claimant to participate in any distribution from the Fair Fund. Subject to certain extensions
provided for in this Plan, the Filing Deadline shall be one hundred and twenty (120) days from
the earliest date of the mailing of Notice Packets.

5

20.

“Fund Administrator” shall mean Gilardi, the firm appointed by the Commission,

pursuant to Rule 1105(a) of the Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans, to
administer this Plan.
21.

“Harmed Trusts” shall mean those RMBS Trusts identified as having been

harmed by the Bulk Settlement Practice.
22.

“Net Available Fair Fund” shall mean Credit Suisse Bulk Settlement Practice Fair

Fund, less any taxes that may be assessed against the Fair Fund.
23.

“Notice Packet” shall mean a packet that will be mailed to Potentially Eligible

Claimants which shall include, at a minimum, a notice to Potentially Eligible Claimants of their
potential right to participate in the distribution of the Credit Suisse Bulk Settlement Practice Fair
Fund and their obligation to file a Proof of Claim Form in order to participate, a summary of the
Plan of Allocation, and a Proof of Claim Form.
24.

“Plan of Allocation” refers to the provisions in paragraphs 55 through 59, below,

which describe the methodology used to calculate a Recognized Claim amount for an Eligible
Claimant.
25.

“Potentially Eligible Claimants” shall mean those persons identified by the Fund

Administrator as having possible claims to recover from the Net Available Fair Fund under this
Plan, or persons asserting that they have possible claims to recover from the Net Available Fair
Fund under this Plan.
26.

“Proof of Claim Form” shall mean the form designed by the Fund Administrator

in accordance with the terms of this Plan for the filing of a claim, which form shall require, at a
minimum, sufficient documentation of the Potentially Eligible Claimant’s purchases of Eligible
Securities on Eligible Purchase Dates.

6

27.

“Recognized Claim” shall be the Eligible Claimant’s compensable allocation

amount calculated pursuant to the methodology of the Plan of Allocation.
28.

“Rejection Notice” shall mean the notice sent by the Fund Administrator to a

Potentially Eligible Claimant stating the Fund Administrator’s determination that the Potentially
Eligible Claimant’s claim is not eligible to receive any distribution.
29.

“Request for Reconsideration Deadline” shall mean the date established in

accordance with this Plan by which a Potentially Eligible Claimant’s dispute of a Rejection
Notice must be filed to challenge the Rejection Notice. Subject to certain extensions provided
for in this Plan, the deadline to file such requests shall be 30 days from the date of Rejection
Notice.
30.

“Summary Notice Publication” shall mean the notice published in PR Newswire

and Investor’s Business Daily. Such notice (the text of which shall be approved by the
Commission staff) shall include, at a minimum, a statement that the Fair Fund relates to
purchases of Eligible Securities during the Eligible Trading Period and the means of obtaining a
Notice Packet.
31.

“Tax Administrator” shall mean Damasco and Associates, LLP, the Tax

Administrator appointed by the Commission.
C.

Allocation of the Fair Fund amongst Eligible Claimants
32.

The Net Available Fair Fund shall be distributed to Eligible Claimants as

provided under the terms of this Plan.
33.

The Net Available Fair Fund shall be distributed on a pro-rata basis provided that

an Eligible Claimant’s Recognized Claim meets or exceeds the Distribution De Minimis
Amount.

7

D.

Administration of the Claims Procedure
General Administration Provisions
34.

The Fund Administrator shall oversee the administration of the claims,

procedures, and distribution as provided in this Plan. The Fund Administrator shall review the
claims of Potentially Eligible Claimants and make determinations under the criteria established
herein as to the eligibility of claimants to recover monies and the amount of money to be
distributed from the Net Available Fair Fund to each Eligible Claimant.
35.

Any claim asserted by a Potentially Eligible Claimant shall be in writing and shall

provide adequate documentary evidence to substantiate the claim, including all documentary
evidence that the Fund Administrator deems necessary or appropriate including, but not limited
to, if available, account statements and trade confirmations.
36.

The recipient of Eligible Securities as a gift, transfer, inheritance, devise or

operation of law shall be eligible to file a Proof of Claim Form and participate in the distribution
of the Credit Suisse Bulk Settlement Practice Fair Fund only to the extent the particular donor or
decedent as the actual purchaser of Eligible Securities would have been eligible. The recipient of
Eligible Securities during the Eligible Trading Period by gift, transfer, inheritance, devise, or
operation of law shall not otherwise be eligible to file a Proof of Claim with respect to such
securities, and shall not be deemed the assignee of any claim relating to the purchase of such
securities unless specifically so provided in the instrument of gift or assignment. However, the
donee and the donor may not both make a claim with regard to the same Eligible Securities. If
both the donor and the donee make such a claim, only the claim filed by the donee will be
honored.
37.

Regarding claims on behalf of a retirement plan covered by Section 3(3) of

ERISA, 29 U.S.C. § 1002(3), which do not include Individual Retirement Accounts, and for

8

which such claims are properly made by the custodian or fiduciary of the retirement plan and not
by the retirement plan’s participants, the Fund Administrator shall distribute any payments on
such claims directly to the custodian or fiduciary of the retirement plan. The distribution shall be
accompanied by a list of retirement plan participants and the number of shares owned by each
retirement plan participant, if that information is known to the Fund Administrator or provided to
the Fund Administrator. The custodian or fiduciary of the retirement plan shall distribute any
payments received in a manner consistent with its fiduciary duties and the account or retirement
plan provisions. With respect to any retirement plan that has been closed prior to the Fund
Administrator’s identification of Eligible Claimants, the Fund Administrator shall endeavor to
distribute funds directly to the beneficial account holders of such retirement plans if the
information required for such a distribution is known to or provided to the Fund Administrator
prior to the Filing Deadline.
38.

The Fund Administrator shall take reasonable and appropriate steps to distribute

the Fair Fund according to this Plan. The Fund Administrator will inform Commission staff of
any changes needed to this Plan. Upon agreement with Commission staff, the Fund
Administrator may implement immaterial changes to this Plan to effectuate the general purposes.
If a change is deemed to be material by Commission staff, Commission approval is required
prior to implementation by amending this Plan.
39.

The Fund Administrator may extend any procedural deadline contained in this

Plan for good cause shown, if agreed upon by the staff of the Commission.
Identification of and Notice to Potentially Eligible Claimants
40.

The Fund Administrator shall, insofar as is practicable, identify individual

Potentially Eligible Claimants from a review of trading records, account information provided by
registered broker-dealers and investment advisers, and any other source available to it.

9

41.

Following the entry by the Commission of its order approving this Plan, the Fund

Administrator shall:
a.

Design a Notice Packet, which shall be submitted to Commission staff for
review and approval.

b.

Create a mailing and claims database, created through the broker/nominee
solicitation process, of the Potentially Eligible Claimants;

c.

Run a National Change of Address search to retrieve updated addresses
for all records in the new database, thereby ensuring updated mailing
information for Potentially Eligible Claimants;

d.

Mail by United States First Class Mail a Notice Packet to each Potentially
Eligible Claimant known to the Fund Administrator and brokerages,
custodial banks, and other institutions (“Nominal Holders”) that may hold
securities in “street name” as nominees for the benefit of their customers
who are the beneficial owners of the securities;

e.

Establish a specific
website, www.CreditSuisseBulkSettlementPracticeFairFund.com,
constructed for the administration of the Credit Suisse Bulk Settlement
Practice Fair Fund from which each Potentially Eligible Claimant may
obtain a copy of the Plan, Notice Packet and other relevant documents
online;

f.

Provide a copy of the Plan and Summary Notice Publication to
Commission staff for posting to the Information for Harmed Investors
page of SEC.gov and establishing a link to the Credit Suisse Bulk
Settlement Practice Fair Fund’s website;

10

g.

Establish a toll-free telephone call-in number by which Potentially
Eligible Claimants can obtain information about the Fair Fund;

h.

Publish a copy of the Summary Notice Publication, approved by
Commission staff, in PR Newswire and Investor’s Business Daily; and

i.

Deliver electronic copies of the Proof of Claim Form to electronic filers
who regularly submit electronic claims on behalf of their clients.

42.

On an on-going basis, after the first Notice Packet is mailed but before the Filing

Deadline, the Fund Administrator shall continue to supply the Notice Packet to Potentially
Eligible Claimants who contact the Fund Administrator requesting a copy via mail, phone or email.
43.

The Fund Administrator shall attempt to locate any Potentially Eligible Claimant

whose Notice Packet has been returned by the U.S. Postal Service (“USPS”) as undeliverable.
The Fund Administrator shall immediately re-mail any returned undelivered mail for which the
USPS has provided a forwarding address.
44.

Additionally, the Fund Administrator may engage a third-party search firm to

conduct more rigorous searches for missing Potentially Eligible Claimants. Additional efforts to
identify new addresses for returned undelivered mail will be conducted as necessary and
economically reasonable after consultation with the staff of the Commission.
45.

Unless extended by the Commission, the claims period shall be no more than one

hundred and twenty (120) days from the earliest date of mailing of Notice Packets to Potentially
Eligible Claimants.
46.

To avoid being barred from asserting a claim, on or before the Filing Deadline,

each Potentially Eligible Claimant must submit to the Fund Administrator a properly completed
Proof of Claim Form reflecting such Potentially Eligible Claimant’s claim, together with all

11

required supporting documentation. The Fund Administrator may extend the Filing Deadline for
one or more Potentially Eligible Claimants for good cause shown, with approval by Commission
staff, in which event such extension shall constitute the Filing Deadline for such Potentially
Eligible Claimants. Such decisions of the Fund Administrator and Commission staff are final
and not subject to challenge. The burden shall be upon the Eligible Claimant to ensure that its
Proof of Claim Form has been timely received by the Fund Administrator.
Review of Claims, and Notification of Claims Determination, Including Notice of
Deficient Claims and Opportunity to Cure
47.

The Fund Administrator shall review each Proof of Claim Form received to

determine the validity and amount of such Potentially Eligible Claimant's claim, together with
any additional conclusions of the Fund Administrator on other issues relevant to the claim. Each
Potentially Eligible Claimant shall have the burden of proof to establish the validity and amount
of its claim, and that it qualifies as an Eligible Claimant; and the Fund Administrator shall have
the right to request, and the Potentially Eligible Claimant shall have the burden of providing to
the Fund Administrator, any additional information and/or documentation deemed relevant by
the Fund Administrator.
48.

The Fund Administrator shall provide to each Potentially Eligible Claimant whose

claim is deficient, in whole or in part, a Claim Deficiency Notice setting forth the reason(s) why
the claim is deficient and instructions on how to cure the deficiency.
49.

Any Potentially Eligible Claimant who has received a Claim Deficiency Notice

shall have thirty (30) days from the date of the Claim Deficiency Notice to cure any deficiencies
identified in the Claim Deficiency Notice.
50.

A Potentially Eligible Claimant who has failed to file an appropriate Proof of

Claim in a timely manner, or who has failed to cure a deficiency in a timely manner identified in

12

a Claim Deficiency Notice, is not permitted to object to the barring or denial of his or her claim
on the basis that:
a.

The Fund Administrator failed to mail, or properly to mail, or that such
Potentially Eligible Claimant failed to receive, a copy of the Notice
Packet, Proof of Claim, Claim Deficiency Notice, or the relevant
Rejection Notice;

b.

The Fund Administrator failed to record properly the receipt of an initial
Proof of Claim, or a revised Proof of Claim to cure deficiencies, or the
requisite supporting documentation; or

c.

A Potentially Eligible Claimant’s name and/or proper contact information
was not properly recorded in the Fund Administrator’s records.

51.

In rejecting any Proof of Claim Form, the Fund Administrator shall advise each

Potentially Eligible Claimant of the basis for the rejection of the claim by Rejection Notice. Any
Potentially Eligible Claimant who objects to the Fund Administrator's determination of eligibility
or wishes the Fund Administrator to reconsider its denial must so advise the Fund Administrator
in writing with a Request for Reconsideration within thirty (30) calendar days of the date of the
Rejection Notice. The Fund Administrator shall promptly consider any such Request for
Reconsideration and shall notify the Potentially Eligible Claimant in writing of the decision.
52.

All claimants have the burden of providing the Fund Administrator with any

changes to his, her or its name or mailing address.
53.

All determinations made by the Fund Administrator in accordance with this Plan

shall be final.
54.

After the Fund Administrator has completed the process of analyzing the claims

and determining the amounts to be distributed as provided in this Plan, and prior to the

13

distribution of funds from the Net Available Fair Fund, the Fund Administrator shall engage an
independent, third-party firm, acceptable to the Commission, to perform a set of agreed upon
tasks, review a statistically significant sample of claims and ensure accurate and comprehensive
application of the Distribution Plan. The Fund Administrator shall provide the Commission staff
with the results of that review together with any written analysis or reports related to the review,
and, upon request, shall make the firm available to the Commission to respond to questions
concerning the review.
Plan of Allocation
55.

The Net Available Fair Fund for the Bulk Settlement Practice will be allocated

among the Harmed Trusts based on the proportion of the disgorgement paid by Respondents for
each Harmed Trust relative to the total disgorgement paid by Respondents. Exhibit B to the Plan
shows the percentage of the Net Available Fair Fund allocated to each of the Harmed Trusts.
56.

Preliminary calculations will be made for all Eligible Claimants in each Harmed

Trust on a pro-rata basis determined by the Eligible Claimant’s investment in the Harmed Trust
divided by the sum of all Eligible Claimants’ investments in the Harmed Trust. For example, if
Eligible Claimant A has investments in Eligible Securities in a certain Harmed Trust equal to 5%
of the dollar value of all the investments in Eligible Securities by all Eligible Claimants in that
Trust, the preliminary calculation amount for Eligible Claimant A would be 5% of the Net
Available Fair Fund allocation for that Trust.
57.

After the preliminary calculations have been made, any Eligible Claimant whose

preliminary calculation amount is less than the Distribution De Minimis Amount will be
removed from the pool of Eligible Claimants.
58.

Final calculations will then be made for all remaining Eligible Claimants in the

relevant Harmed Trust on a pro-rata basis as described in paragraph 56, above, but excluding

14

Eligible Claimants whose preliminary calculation amounts are less than the Distribution De
Minimis Amount, to arrive at a Recognized Claim amount. For example, if after claims are
eliminated for Eligible Claimants with a preliminary calculation amount of less than the
Distribution De Minimis Amount, Eligible Claimant A has investments in Eligible Securities that
are 6.5% of the total investments in Eligible Securities made by all Eligible Claimants in the
Trust, then Claimant A’s Recognized Claim amount is 6.5% of the Net Available Fair Fund
allocation for that Trust.
59.

In the event that the number of claims submitted by Eligible Claimant(s) for a

particular Harmed Trust is such that the Eligible Claimant(s) would receive a recovery greatly in
excess of their Recognized Claim amount if all Eligible Claimant(s) submitted claims related to
investments equal to the issued amount of the Harmed Trust (the “Projected Minimum
Recovery”), the Fund Administrator, with the agreement of the Commission staff, may use
discretion in determining the amount of the Recognized Claim(s) for that particular Harmed
Trust. Discretion will not be applied to any Eligible Claimant’s Recognized Claim such that his,
her or its distribution payment will be less than the Projected Minimum Recovery.
Provisions for the Tax Administrator
60.

The Fair Fund is a “Qualified Settlement Fund” within the meaning of the

regulations issued under Section 468B(g) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
The Tax Administrator is the administrator of such Qualified Settlement Fund, for purposes of
Treas. Reg. § 1.468B-2(k)(3)(I), and shall satisfy the tax related administrative requirements
imposed by Treas. Reg. § 1.468B-2, including, but not limited to:
a.

obtaining a taxpayer identification number;

15

b.

timely requesting funds necessary for the timely payment of all applicable
taxes, the timely payment of taxes for which the Tax Administrator has
received funds, and the filing of applicable returns; and

c.

fulfilling any information reporting or withholding requirements required
for distributions from the Net Available Fair Fund.

61.

The Fund Administrator shall cooperate with the Tax Administrator in providing

any information necessary to ensure income tax compliance.
62.

All taxes will be paid from the Fair Fund, subject to the review and approval of

Commission staff.
Procedures for Distributing the Fair Fund
63.

The Fund Administrator shall distribute the Net Available Fair Fund to all

Eligible Claimants only after all timely submitted Proof of Claims have been processed and all
Potentially Eligible Claimants whose claims have been rejected or disallowed, in whole or in
part, have been notified and provided the opportunity to cure pursuant to the procedures set forth
above.
64.

Within one hundred and twenty (120) days following completion of processing of

all Potentially Eligible Claimant disputes and Proof of Claim, the Fund Administrator shall
prepare a list of Eligible Claimants and amount of each Eligible Claimant’s Recognized Claim
(the “Payment File”).

The Recognized Claim amount recorded in the Payment File will be in

an amount adjusted for reserves for taxes, as requested by the Tax Administrator and approved
by Commission staff.
65.

The Fund Administrator will also provide a “reasonable assurances letter” to the

Commission staff, representing that the list of Eligible Claimants: (a) was compiled in
accordance with this Plan; (b) is accurate as to Eligible Claimants’ names, addresses, and

16

Recognized Claim amounts; and (c) provides all information necessary to make to each Eligible
Claimant a payment equal to the amount of the applicable Recognized Claim amount for such
Eligible Claimant, adjusted for reserves for taxes.
66.

Upon receipt of the Payment File and reasonable assurances letter, the

Commission staff will seek an order from the Commission to disburse the funds identified in the
Payment File in accordance with the provisions of this Plan pursuant to Rule 1101(b)(6), 17
C.F.R. § 201.1101(b)(6). Upon issuance of an order to disburse by the Commission,
Commission staff will direct the transfer of funds to the “Escrow Account.” The Fund
Administrator shall then distribute the funds to Eligible Claimants as provided for in this Plan.
67.

Prior to disbursement of the Net Available Fair Fund, the Fund Administrator will

establish account(s) described in the following paragraph at a United States commercial bank
(the “Bank”), not unacceptable to the staff of the Commission.
68.

The Fund Administrator shall establish with the Bank an Escrow Account

pursuant to an escrow agreement (the “Escrow Agreement”) to be provided by the staff of the
Commission, in the name of and bearing the Employer Identification Number (“EIN”) of the
Qualified Settlement Fund as defined in paragraph 60, above. The Fund Administrator shall also
establish with the Bank a separate “Deposit Account” (e.g. controlled distribution account,
managed distribution account, linked checking and investment account) for the purpose of
funding distribution payments to be distributed to Eligible Claimants by the Fund Administrator
pursuant to this Plan. The name of each account shall be in the following form: Credit Suisse
Bulk Settlement Fund (EIN XX-XXXXXXX), as custodian for the benefit of investors allocated
a distribution pursuant to the Plan in In the Matter of Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, et al.,
Administrative Proceeding File No. 3-15098.

17

69.

During the term of the Escrow Agreement, if invested, the Escrow Account shall

be invested and reinvested in short-term United States Treasury securities backed by the full faith
and credit of the United States Government or an agency thereof, of a type and term necessary to
meet the cash liquidity requirements for payments to Eligible Claimants, and tax obligations,
including investment or reinvestment in a bank account insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (“FDIC”) up to the guaranteed FDIC limit, or in money market mutual funds
registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 that invest 100% of their assets in direct
obligations of the United States government. The Fund Administrator shall provide duplicate
original bank and/or investment statements on any accounts established by the Fund
Administrator to the Tax Administrator on a monthly basis and shall assist the Tax Administrator
in obtaining mid-cycle statements, as necessary.
70.

The Fund Administrator shall deposit or invest funds in the Escrow and Deposit

Accounts so as to result in the maximum reasonable net return, taking into account the safety of
such deposits or investments. In consultation with the staff of the Commission, the Fund
Administrator shall work with the Bank on an ongoing basis to determine an allocation of funds
between the Escrow and Deposit Accounts.
71.

All funds shall remain in the Escrow Account, separate from bank assets, pursuant

to the Escrow Agreement until needed to satisfy a presented check. All Distribution Fund checks
presented for payment or electronic transfer will be subject to “positive pay” controls (e.g. check
number and check amount) before they are honored by the Bank, at which time funds will be
transferred from the Escrow Account to the distribution account to pay the approved checks.
72.

All payments to Eligible Claimants shall be preceded or accompanied by a

communication that includes, as appropriate: (a) a statement characterizing the distribution; (b) a
statement that the tax treatment of the distribution is the responsibility of each recipient and that

18

the recipient should consult his, her or its tax advisor for advice regarding the tax treatment of
the distribution; (c) a statement that checks will be void after one hundred twenty (120) days; and
(d) contact information for the Fund Administrator, to be used in the event of any questions
regarding the distribution. Any such information letter or other mailing to recipients
characterizing their distributions shall be submitted to the staff of the Commission for review and
approval. Distribution checks, on their face, or in the accompanying mailing will clearly indicate
that the money is being distributed from a Fair Fund established by the Commission to
compensate investors for harm as a result of securities law violations.
73.

The Fund Administrator, and/or each of its designees, agents and assistants, shall

be entitled to rely on all outstanding rules of law; and any Orders issued by the Commission, the
Secretary by delegated authority or an Administrative Law Judge; and/or any investor
information provided by Commission staff.
74.

The submission of the Proof of Claim Form and the receipt and acceptance of a

distribution by an Eligible Claimant is not intended to be a release of an Eligible Claimant’s
rights and claims against any party.
75.

All checks will bear a stale date of one hundred twenty (120) days from the date

of the check. Checks that are not negotiated before the stale date shall be voided and the issuing
financial institution shall be instructed to stop payment on those checks. An Eligible Claimant’s
claim will be extinguished if he, she or it fails to negotiate his, her or its check by the stale date,
and the funds will remain in the Fair Fund. If a check reissue has been requested before the stale
date, such request is governed by paragraph 77, below.
Returned or Un-Cashed Checks
76.

The Fund Administrator shall use its best efforts to make use of reasonable

commercially available resources and other reasonably appropriate means to locate all Eligible

19

Claimants whose checks are returned to the Fund Administrator as undeliverable by the U.S.
Postal Service.

Where new address information becomes available, the Fund Administrator

shall repackage the distribution check and send it to the new address. Where new address
information is not available after a diligent search (and in no event later than one hundred twenty
(120) days after the initial mailing of the original check), the check shall be voided and the Fund
Administrator shall instruct the issuing financial institution to stop payment on such check. Such
reissued checks will be void either ninety (90) days after issuance or ninety (90) days after the
stale date of the original check, whichever is later.
77.

The Fund Administrator shall reissue checks to Eligible Claimants upon the

receipt of a valid written request from an Eligible Claimant. In cases where an Eligible Claimant
is unable to endorse a disbursement check as written (e.g., name change as a result of divorce or
Eligible Claimant is deceased), and the Eligible Claimant or its lawful representative requests the
reissuance of a disbursement check under a different name, the Fund Administrator will request,
and must receive, documentation supporting the change. The Fund Administrator will review
the documentation to determine the authenticity and propriety of the change request. If such
change request is properly documented, the Fund Administrator will issue an appropriately
redrawn check to the requesting party. Such reissued checks will be void either ninety (90) days
after issuance or ninety (90) days after the stale date of the original check, whichever is later.
Residual Funds and Final Accounting
78.

Approximately one (1) year following initial distribution, after all taxes of the Net

Available Fair Fund have been satisfied, if there are remaining funds from uncashed checks
allocated to a Harmed Trust, the Commission staff may at its discretion direct the Fund
Administrator to distribute those residual funds to Eligible Claimants, if any, from that Trust who
filed claims with the Fund Administrator after the Filing Deadline or who were late in curing a

20

previously rejected claim. The allocation of any residual funds to be distributed to these late
claimants would be made only within the Harmed Trust that was the source of the residual funds,
and not across any other Harmed Trusts. The late Eligible Claimants will receive a distribution
payment up to the Recognized Claim amount that would have been received if the claim had
been filed on time, the amount depending on the available residual funds for that Harmed Trust.
79.

If any funds remain after the payment of claims that were filed late or cured after

the Filing Deadline, or if no such claims exist, Commission staff may at its discretion direct the
Fund Administrator to allocate those residual funds on a pro rata basis for claims paid and checks
cashed to all Eligible Claimants who cashed a distribution check and who would receive at least
the Distribution De Minimis Amount from such re-distribution. The allocation of any residual
funds to be distributed to such Eligible Claimants would be made only within the same Harmed
Trust that was the source of the residual funds, and not across any other Harmed Trusts.
80.

If, after consultation between the Fund Administrator and Commission staff, a

distribution described in either paragraph 78 or 79, above, is not deemed cost effective, the
remaining funds may be transmitted to the Commission for transfer to the U.S. Treasury after all
final accounting has been completed per the terms of paragraph 83, below.
81.

Upon final distribution of the funds, the Fund Administrator shall make

arrangement for the final payment of taxes and shall submit a final accounting to the
Commission in a standard accounting format provided by the staff of the Commission. The Fair
Fund shall be eligible for termination, and the Fund Administrator eligible for discharge, after all
of the following have occurred: (a) the final accounting has been submitted and approved by the
Commission, (b) all taxes and fees have been paid and (c) any remaining funds have been paid to
the Commission for transfer to the United States Treasury.

21

Filing of Reports and Accountings
82.

The Fund Administrator shall provide the Commission a quarterly cash report, in

a format to be provided by Commission staff, within ten (10) days after the end of every calendar
quarter. At the request of Commission staff, the Fund Administrator will also provide periodic
progress reports, which will inform the Commission of the activities and status of the Fair Fund
during a requested reporting period.
83.

When the final distribution is completed, the Fund Administrator shall provide to

Commission staff a final report summarizing all tasks undertaken and the outcome of its
administrative efforts. In addition to the final report, the Fund Administrator shall submit a final
accounting to the Commission, as provided in paragraph 81, above, of all monies received,
earned, spent, and distributed in connection with the administration of this Plan in a format
provided by Commission staff.
84.

Pursuant to Commission direction, the Fund Administrator will either turn over to

the SEC or destroy all documents, including documents in any media, six (6) years after the
approval of the final accounting. In addition, the Fund Administrator will shut down the toll-free
number and website established specifically for the administration of the Fair Fund upon the
transfer of any remaining funds to the Commission.

22

