UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 79170 / October 27, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17646

In the Matter of
MICHAEL S. CAIN,
Respondent.

ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Michael S. Cain
(“Respondent” or “Cain”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Respondent consents
to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940,
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.

Cain was associated with a registered broker-dealer in 2009.

2.
On July 20, 2016, a final judgment was entered against Cain by consent,
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 10(b) and 14(e) of the Exchange Act
and Rules 10b-5 and 14e-3 thereunder, in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange
Commission v. Melvin, et al., Civil Action Number 1:12-cv-02984-CAP, in the United States
District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. Cain was also ordered to pay a $36,991.20
civil money penalty.

3.
The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that in 2009, Cain
traded in the securities of Chattem, Inc., while in possession of material, non-public information
that had been tipped to him from an accountant who misappropriated the information from an
accounting client, while further knowing that the information was obtained in breach of a duty of
trust and confidence that the accountant owed to his client.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Cain’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act that
Respondent Cain be, and hereby is:
barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities
dealer or transfer agent; and
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter,
finder, consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer
for purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the
purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

2

