UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78649 / August 23, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 17414
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
MICHAEL J. CALASH,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Michael J. Calash
(“Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s
jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the findings contained in
Sections III.B.1 below, and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative
Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings,
and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:

A.

RESPONDENT
1. From May through July 2004, Respondent was a registered
representative associated with LH Ross & Company, Inc., a Florida-based
broker-dealer previously registered with the Commission. From September
2004 through September 2005, Respondent was a registered representative
associated with Salomon Grey Financial Corporation, a Texas-based brokerdealer previously registered with the Commission. Between July 2010 and
November 2012, Respondent offered and sold securities to individual investors
while acting as an unregistered securities broker. Respondent, 34 years old, is a
resident of Miami-Dade County, Florida and is currently in the custody of the
Federal Bureau of Prisons in the Federal Detention Center, Miami, Florida.

B.

RESPONDENT’S CRIMINAL CONVICTION
1. On January 25, 2016, Respondent plead guilty to one count
of conspiracy to commit wire fraud, in violation of Title 18, United States
Code, Section 1349, before the United States District Court for the Southern
District of Florida, in United States v. Eratostene, et. al., No. 15-CR-20565KMW.
2. As part of his guilty plea, Respondent stipulated that from
July 2010 through November 2012, he acted as an unregistered sales agent for
Advanced Equity Partners, DDBO Consulting, and DBBG Consulting, Florida
entities that did business in Miami-Dade County, and elsewhere, by participating
in the offer and sale of Thought Development, Inc. (“TDI”) stock, which was a
penny stock. Specifically, Respondent admitted that he solicited more than ten
individuals who invested funds totaling more than $95,000 in TDI stock.
Respondent admitted that he and his co-conspirators made false material
statements and omitted material facts to investors regarding TDI stock, such as
falsely stating that TDI would “shortly go public,” that investor funds would be
used by TDI to develop technology, capitalize the company, and fund operations
until its pending public offering, and that no commission or fees would be
charged or that only 10 percent of investor funds would be used to pay
commissions and fees. Respondent admitted that in reality TDI was not
contemplating a public offering and the investor funds were used to pay
Respondent and other conspirators substantial commissions.
IV.

In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.

2

Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act,
that Respondent be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment
adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized
statistical rating organization; and
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, Respondent be, and hereby is, barred
from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder,
consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for
purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the
purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

