UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78842 / September 14, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17537
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
ANDREW W.W.
CASPERSEN,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Andrew W.W.
Caspersen (“Caspersen” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s
jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the findings contained in
Sections III.2. below, and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative
Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings,
and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Caspersen, age 39, is a resident of New York City and Bronxville, NY. Since
January 2013, he has been a managing principal of his employer, a broker-dealer registered with
the Commission. Between 2003 and 2012, Caspersen was a principal at a private equity firm
based in London, U.K. He graduated from Harvard Law School in 2002 and Princeton University
in 1999.
2.
On September 9, 2016, a judgment was entered by consent against Caspersen
enjoining him from violating Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 10(b) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, in the civil action entitled SEC v.
Caspersen, Civil Action Number 16-CV-2249, in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of New York.
3.
On July 6, 2016, Caspersen, a securities professional associated with a registered
broker-dealer, pled guilty to securities fraud and wire fraud and admitted that he raised $38.5
million from investors in non-existent investment vehicles using false and misleading statements.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Caspersen’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act that
Respondent Caspersen be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer,
investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally
recognized statistical rating organization.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary
2

