UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78875 / September 19, 2016

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17554
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
DAVID A. ZIMMERMAN,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against David A.
Zimmerman (“Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these
proceedings and the findings contained in paragraph III.2 below, which are admitted, Respondent
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions
(“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Zimmerman was the Vice President of Investor Relations of Secured Income
Reserve, Inc., a Delaware Corporation formed in March 2012 with its principal place of business in
Palm Beach Gardens, Florida. Zimmerman also served as a Consultant to Filewarden.com Corp.,
f/k/a Success Exploration and Resources, Inc., a Nevada corporation formed in November 2005.
2.
On August 31, 2016, a final judgment was entered by consent against
Zimmerman, providing permanent injunctive relief under Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and
Sections 10(b) and 15(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder in the civil action entitled
Securities and Exchange Commission v. Secured Income Reserve, Inc., et al., 9:16-CV-81490RLR, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida.
3.
The Commission’s complaint alleged that Zimmerman knowingly or with
severe recklessness made material misrepresentations to investors in connection with the sale of
Secured Income Reserve, Inc. preferred shares and common shares. In addition, the complaint
alleged that Zimmerman knowingly or with severe recklessness made material misrepresentations
to investors in connection with the sale of shares of Filewarden.com Corp.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Zimmerman’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act,
that Respondent Zimmerman be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer,
investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally
recognized statistical rating organization; and
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent Zimmerman be, and hereby
is barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter,
finder, consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer
for purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the
purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
2

and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

