UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 76775 / December 24, 2015
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-15471

In the Matter of
SARKAUSKAS AND
ASSOCIATES, INC. and
JAMES M. SARKAUSKAS,

NOTICE OF PROPOSED
PLAN OF DISTRIBUTION
AND OPPURTUNITY
FOR COMMENT

Respondents.

Notice is hereby given, pursuant to Rule 1103 of the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s (“Commission”) Rules on Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans, 17 C.F.R.
§ 201.1103, that the Division of Enforcement has submitted to the Commission a proposed
plan (the “Plan”) for the distribution of monies paid in the above-captioned matter.
On September 13, 2013, the Commission issued a settled administrative and ceaseand-desist proceeding order (“Order”) related to a fraudulent scheme perpetrated by
Sarkauskas and Associates, Inc. and James M. Sarkauskas (“Sarkauskas”) (collectively,
“Respondents”) (Securities Exchange Act Rel. No. 70388). Respondents purchased for their
clients unit investment trust (“UIT”) units that included transactional sales charges (“loads”)
without disclosing that identical no-load UIT units could be purchased. The Order stated that
Respondents’ failure to disclose this information resulted in their substantially increasing their
compensation at the expense of their clients, which created a conflict of interest. As a result
of this conduct, the Order found that Respondents willfully violated Sections 206(1) and
206(2) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”).
The Order requires Respondents to cease and desist from committing or causing any
violations and any future violations of Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act. The
Order barred Sarkauskas from associating with any broker, dealer, investment adviser,
municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized
statistical rating organization, prohibited him from serving or acting as an employee, officer,
director, member of an advisory board, investment adviser or depositor of, or principal
underwriter for, a registered investment company or affiliated person of such investment
adviser, depositor, or principal underwriter, and barred him from participating in any offering
of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder, consultant, agent or other person
who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for purposes of the issuance or trading
in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the purchase or sale of any penny

stock. Respondents also were ordered to pay disgorgement of $331,433.98 and prejudgment
interest of $18,403.22, and Sarkauskas was ordered to pay a civil money penalty of $100,000.
In accordance with the Order, Respondents paid a total of $449,837.20 in
disgorgement, prejudgment interest, and civil monetary penalties to the Commission.
The Order created a Fair Fund pursuant Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002, as amended, for the funds paid by the Respondents (the “Fair Fund”). The Fair Fund is
subject to the continuing jurisdiction and control of the Commission and the Fair Fund is
currently on deposit in a Commission designated interest-bearing account at the United States
Department of the Treasury (“U.S. Treasury”). The Plan is subject to approval by the
Commission, and the Commission retains jurisdiction over the implementation of the Plan.
Under the Plan, the Fair Fund, less any reserve for taxes, fees or other expenses of
administering the Plan (the “Net Fair Fund”), will be distributed to eligible investors as
defined in paragraph 6 of the Plan. It is anticipated that there will be one disbursement to the
eligible investors.
OPPORTUNITY FOR COMMENT
Pursuant to this Notice, all interested persons are advised that they may obtain a copy
of the Plan from the Commission’s public website at
http://www.sec.gov/litigation/fairfundlist.htm. Interested persons may also obtain a written
copy of the Plan by submitting a written request to Michael S. Lim, United States Securities
and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-5631. All persons who
desire to comment on the Plan may submit their comments, in writing, no later than thirty (30)
days from the date of this Notice:
1.

to the Office of the Secretary, United States Securities and Exchange
Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-1090;

2.

by using the Commission’s Internet comment form
(http://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin.shtml); or

3.

by sending an e-mail to rule-comments@sec.gov.

Comments submitted should include “Administrative Proceeding File No. 3-15471” in the
submit line. Comments received will be publicly available. Persons should submit only
information that they wish to make publicly available.
THE DISTRIBUTION PLAN
The Fair Fund is comprised of the amounts of disgorgement ($331,433.98),
prejudgment interest ($18,403.22), and civil money penalty ($100,000) paid by the
Respondents to the Commission. As set forth in the Plan, the proposed methodology allocates
the Fair Fund by calculating the Total Overage1 plus Lost Interest Earnings to calculate the
Total Present Value Harm suffered for each Eligible Investor. If the Net Fair Fund is less than
1

Capitalized terms used by not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan.

2

the Total Present Value Harm, Eligible Investor’s will receive their Pro Rata share of the Net
Fair Fund.
For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

