(Corrected to Conform to Federal Register Version)

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
17 CFR Part 240
[Release No. 34-76624; File No. S7-26-15]
RIN 3235-AL72
Establishing the Form and Manner with which Security-Based Swap Data Repositories
Must Make Security-Based Swap Data Available to the Commission

AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission.
ACTION: Proposed rule.
SUMMARY: The Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC” or “Commission”) is
publishing for comment a proposed amendment to specify the form and manner with which
security-based swap data repositories (“SDRs”) will be required to make security-based swap
(“SBS”) data available to the Commission under Exchange Act Rule 13n-4(b)(5). The
Commission is proposing to require SDRs to make these data available according to schemas
that will be published on the Commission’s website and that will reference the international
industry standards Financial products Markup Language (“FpML”) and Financial Information
eXchange Markup Language (“FIXML”).
DATES: Comments should be received on or before February 22, 2016.
ADDRESSES: Comments may be submitted by any of the following methods:
Electronic comments:
•

Use the Commission’s Internet comment form

(http://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed.shtml); or
•

Send an e-mail to rule-comments@sec.gov. Please include File Number S7-26-25 on the

subject line; or

•

Use the Federal eRulemaking Portal (http://www.regulations.gov). Follow the

instructions for submitting comments.
Paper Comments:
•

Send paper comments to Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street,

NE, Washington, DC 20549-1090.
All submissions should refer to File Number S7-26-15. This file number should be included on
the subject line if e-mail is used. To help us process and review your comments more efficiently,
please use only one method. The Commission will post all comments on the Commission’s
Internet website (http://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed.shtml). Comments are also available for
website viewing and printing in the Commission’s Public Reference Room, 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, DC 20549 on official business days between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m.
All comments received will be posted without change; the Commission does not edit personal
identifying information from submissions. You should submit only information that you wish to
make available publicly.
Studies, memoranda, or other substantive items may be added by the Commission or staff
to the comment file during this rulemaking. A notification of the inclusion in the comment file
of any such materials will be made available on the SEC’s website. To ensure direct electronic
receipt of such notifications, sign up through the “Stay Connected” option at www.sec.gov to
receive notifications by e-mail.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Narahari Phatak, Branch Chief, at (202)551-6693; Walter Hamscher, IT Project Manager, at (202)-551-5397; Yee Cheng Loon,
Financial Economist, at (202)-551-3077; Hermine Wong, Attorney-Adviser, at (202)-551-4038;

2

Christian Sabella, Associate Director, at (202)-551-5997; Michael Gaw, Assistant Director, at
(202)-551-5602.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Commission is proposing to amend Rule 13n4(a)(5) under the Exchange Act (defining “Direct electronic access” to data stored by an SDR).

I.

Introduction
On February 11, 2015, the Commission adopted Rules 13n-1 to 13n-11 under the

Exchange Act (collectively, the “SDR Rules”), 1 which govern SDR registration, duties, and core
principles. 2 On the same day, the Commission adopted Rules 900 to 909 under the Exchange
Act (collectively, “Regulation SBSR”), 3 which govern the reporting to registered SDRs of SBS
data and public dissemination by registered SDRs of a subset of that data. 4 In combination, these
rules represent a significant step forward in providing a regulatory framework to promote
transparency and efficiency in the OTC derivatives markets and assist relevant authorities in
performing their market oversight functions.
Today, the Commission is proposing to amend the SDR Rules to specify the form and
manner with which SDRs would be required to make SBS data available to the Commission.
This rulemaking constitutes an important next step in the development of the SBS transaction

1

17 CFR 240.13n-1 to 240.13n-11.

2

See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 74246 (February 11, 2015), 80 FR 14437
(March 19, 2015) (“SDR Adopting Release”).

3

17 CFR 242.900 to 242.909.

4

See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 74244 (February 11, 2015), 80 FR 14563
(March 19, 2015) (“Regulation SBSR Adopting Release”).

3

reporting regime mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act. 5 The proposed rule would require that SBS
data made available by SDRs be formatted and structured consistently to allow the Commission
to accurately analyze the data made available by a single SDR, and to aggregate and analyze data
made available by multiple SDRs.
A.

Background

Rule 13n-4(b)(5) under the Exchange Act 6 requires an SDR to provide direct electronic
access to the Commission (or any designee of the Commission, including another registered
entity). Under Rule 13n-4(a)(5), 7 “direct electronic access” means “access, which shall be in a
form and manner acceptable to the Commission, to data stored by a security-based swap data
repository in an electronic format and updated at the same time as the security-based swap data
repository’s data is updated so as to provide the Commission or any of its designees with the
ability to query or analyze the data in the same manner that the security-based swap data
repository can query or analyze the data” (emphasis added). As discussed in detail below, the

5

Pub. L. No. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010). The Dodd-Frank Act was enacted, among
other reasons, to promote the financial stability of the United States by improving
accountability and transparency in the financial system. See Pub. L. No. 111-203,
Preamble. The 2008 financial crisis highlighted significant issues in the over-the-counter
(“OTC”) derivatives markets, which experienced dramatic growth in the years leading up
to the financial crisis and are capable of affecting significant sectors of the U.S.
economy. Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act provides for a comprehensive new regulatory
framework for swaps and security-based swaps, by, among other things: (1) providing
for the registration and comprehensive regulation of swap dealers, security-based swap
dealers, major swap participants, and major security-based swap participants; (2)
imposing clearing and trade execution requirements on swaps and security-based swaps,
subject to certain exceptions; (3) creating recordkeeping, regulatory reporting, and public
dissemination requirements for swaps and security-based swaps; and (4) enhancing the
rulemaking and enforcement authorities of the Commission and the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (“CFTC”).

6

17 CFR 240.13n-4(b)(5).

7

17 CFR 240.13n-4(a)(5).

4

Commission is proposing to set out the form and manner for direct electronic access to SDRs
that is acceptable to the Commission.
As the Commission noted in the SDR Adopting Release, a significant portion of the
benefits of an SDR will not be realized if the Commission obtains direct electronic access to the
data stored at an SDR in a form or manner that cannot be easily utilized by the Commission. 8
Furthermore, the form and manner with which an SDR provides the data to the Commission
should not only permit the Commission to accurately analyze the data maintained by a single
SDR, but also allow the Commission to aggregate and analyze data received from multiple
SDRs. 9 The form and manner that will be acceptable to the Commission for an SDR to provide
direct electronic access may vary on a case-by-case basis and may change over time, depending
on a number of factors. 10 These factors could include the development of new types of securitybased swaps or variations of existing security-based swaps that require additional data to
accurately describe them. 11 Additionally, the extent to which the Commission encounters
difficulty in standardizing and aggregating SBS data across multiple SDRs would be a factor in
considering the nature of the direct access provided by an SDR to the Commission. 12
In the SDR Adopting Release, the Commission also stated that, until such time as the
Commission adopts specific formats and taxonomies, SDRs “may provide direct electronic
access to the Commission to data in the form in which the SDRs maintain such data.” 13 Under

8

See 80 FR at 14474.

9

See id.

10

See id.

11

See id.

12

See id.

13

See id. at 14475.

5

this guidance, an SDR could provide direct electronic access to data in a form and manner that is
not conducive to the Commission’s ability to analyze the data or surveil the SBS market. For
example, a particular SDR might provide direct electronic access to data in the same format in
which the data were received from its participants. If participants report data to the SDR using
different conventions, inconsistencies in data formats within the SDR might limit or impair the
Commission’s ability to accurately aggregate positions within the SDR or to compare the
features of one market participant’s transactions or positions to those of another market
participant.
B.

Overview of Proposed Amendment

The Commission proposes to amend Rule 13n-4(a) to specify the form and manner with
which SDRs must provide direct electronic access to the Commission by requiring SDRs to
comply with an appropriate schema as will be published on the Commission’s website.
In the SDR Adopting Release, the Commission stated that it believed it was in the best
position to aggregate data across multiple SDRs. 14 The Commission also stated that if it were to
propose a particular format for the direct electronic access, it would propose detailed
specifications of acceptable formats and taxonomies that would facilitate an accurate
interpretation, aggregation, and analysis of SBS data by the Commission. 15 Any proposed
format also would maximize the use of any applicable current industry standards for the
description of SBS data. 16

14

Id.

15

Id. at 14474-75.

16

Id. at 14475.

6

The Commission is currently aware of only two industry standards for representing SBS
data: FpML 17 and FIXML. 18 The Commission is proposing to accommodate both industry
standards by specifying that either of two distinct schemas 19 would satisfy the requirements of
Rule 13n-4. One schema would rely on the FpML standard and the other schema would rely on
the FIXML standard. Both schemas would articulate the same common data model, which is the
logical representation of the data elements required to be reported under Regulation SBSR. The
Commission preliminary believes that each schema would facilitate the consistent reporting of
SBS transaction characteristics, such as the counterparties, associated other parties (e.g.,
brokers), and corresponding terms of payments. In addition, validations associated with the
schemas would help SDRs ensure that the data they make available to the Commission adhere to
the common data model.
As discussed below in more detail, the Commission preliminarily believes that both
industry standards already cover many of the data elements that must be reported to registered
SDRs under Regulation SBSR. In the appendix, the Commission has highlighted clear cases
where the schemas require additional elements that do not yet exist in FpML or FIXML to
represent all data elements that must be reported under Regulation SBSR and that registered
SDRs must accept and store.
This release solicits comment on the Commission’s proposal concerning the form and
manner with which SDRs provide the Commission with direct electronic access, including
whether the Commission should accept both the FpML and FIXML standards, whether the
17

FpML is a registered trademark of the International Swaps and Derivatives Association,
Inc.

18

FIXML is a registered trademark of Fix Protocol Limited.

19

The term “schema” is generally applied to formal representations of data models.

7

Commission should accept only one or the other, whether the Commission should accept other
protocols or standards, and whether the Commission’s incorporation of validations into the
schemas supports completeness of the SBS data.
II.

Discussion of the Proposed Amendment
A.

Discussion of Existing Industry Standards

Industry standards have evolved to enable participants in the SBS market to capture and
communicate certain trade information. As discussed in more detail below, these standards have
evolved for use in different contexts but inherently share features that are relevant for SBS data
standardization and aggregation.
1.

Background of Existing Industry Standards

The Commission is aware of two existing industry standards which are used by market
participants to capture trade-related information: FpML and FIXML . FpML and FIXML are
both international open industry standards, meaning that they are technological standards that are
widely available to the public, royalty-free, and at no cost. In addition, they are both
independent of the software and hardware used by participants, thus facilitating interoperability.
Both FpML and FIXML have evolved for use in different contexts and they share features that
are relevant for rendering SBS data compatible for the purposes of normalization, aggregation,
and comparison.
FpML was developed under the auspices of the International Swaps and Derivatives
Association (ISDA), 20 using the ISDA derivatives documentation as its basis. FpML
maintenance and continued development is undertaken by the FpML Standards Committee,
20

ISDA is a global organization of derivatives market participants. ISDA has developed
standardized Master Agreements underlying derivatives transactions and manages the
development of FpML. See http://www2.isda.org/ (last visited Dec. 8, 2015).

8

which operates under the auspices of ISDA and is made up of representatives from a range of
financial market participants, including banks, brokers, central counterparties (CCPs), and other
financial infrastructure providers. FpML was designed for the OTC derivatives industry to
capture data elements that provide a complete and accurate representation of the contractual
provisions of a trade in derivatives or structured products. FpML is used by market participants
to communicate OTC transaction details to counterparties and post-trade processors, and is
designed to facilitate validation of message contents. FpML is also designed to be useful within
firms for the purposes of sharing OTC transaction information across systems. 21 The FpML
Standards committee maintains FpML and updates it from time to time. 22
In contrast to FpML’s focus on post-trade communication of standardized derivatives
contracts, Financial Information eXchange (FIX) is a messaging protocol developed for pre-trade
communication and trade execution of standardized and bespoke contracts for multiple asset
classes and markets. The FIX protocol enables electronic communication between brokerdealers and their institutional clients to deliver quotes, submit orders, and execute trades. Since
its inception in 1992 as a standard used to trade equities, the use of FIX was further developed to
include fixed income, derivatives, and foreign exchange, and the scope of FIX has been extended
to include pre-trade, trade, and post-trade business processes 23 using FIXML, an eXtensible
Markup Language (XML) based implementation of the FIX messaging standard. FIXML

21

See FpML® Information, https://dedicated.fpml.org/about/factsheet.html (last visited
Dec. 8, 2015).

22

See infra note 82.

23

Oxera Consulting Ltd., What are the benefits of the FIX Protocol? Standardising
messaging protocols in the capital markets, at 5 (2009), available at
http://www.oxera.com/Oxera/media/Oxera/Benefits-of-the-FIX-Protocol.pdf?ext=.pdf.

9

embeds FIX messages in an XML document that includes structures that are specific to the FIX
protocol. The FIX messaging standard is owned, maintained, and developed through the
collaborative efforts of the FIX Trading Community. 24
Both FpML and FIXML were derived from the XML standard. Each standard uses an
XML-based schema to impose structure on the order and content of, and relationships among,
data elements, including the particular data types that correspond to each data element. FpML
and FIXML mark up or “structure” data using standard but distinct definitions. These data
element definitions establish a consistent structure of identity and context so that the reported
data can be recognized and processed by standard computer code or software (i.e., made machine
readable). For example, under Regulation SBSR, the title and date of agreements incorporated
by reference in a SBS contract must be reported to a registered SDR for certain transactions. 25
To convey this information electronically, the data must be structured with the role of the
agreement (such as master, collateral, or margin), the title of the agreement, and the date of the
agreement.
The Commission notes that the bodies responsible for the maintenance of both FpML and
FIXML have experience engaging with the regulatory community and have made enhancements
specifically to support regulatory requirements. FpML currently supports several regulatory
reporting requirements other than those imposed by the Commission as part of Regulation

24

FIX Trading Community is a non-profit, industry-driven standards body comprised of
over 270 member firms from the global financial services industry. See Letter from FIX
Trading Community to Commodity Futures Trading Commission (May 27, 2014),
available at
http://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=59866&SearchText=
.

25

17 CFR 242.901(d)(4).

10

SBSR, 26 and has a working group currently considering SBS data reporting requirements. 27 The
FIX Trading Community has enhanced FIXML to support the trade capture requirements of the
CFTC. 28 FIXML is used for asset- and mortgage-backed securities trade reporting to FINRA. 29
The Australian Securities and Investments Commission published FIXML requirements for the
disclosure and reporting of short sales. 30 The Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of
Canada adopted FIXML for market surveillance and transactional reporting. 31
The Commission preliminarily believes that both standards have been implemented by
market participants and are widespread in use, and that the taxonomies for both standards for
SBS reporting have developed sufficient coverage such that the Commission does not need to
develop its own standard for the required data elements. 32 If the Commission were to adopt a
rule that required SDRs to make SBS data available to the Commission using the FpML or
FIXML standards, the Commission anticipates that its staff would keep apprised of relevant
advances and developments with those standards and engage with each standard’s working group
regarding such developments, as appropriate.

26

See FpML Global Regulatory Reporting Mapping 2014 v9 (Feb 27) (Working Draft),
available at http://www.fpml.org/asset/40388bcb/6a20cde6.xlsx.

27

See Reporting/Regulatory Reporting Working Group Charter,
http://www.fpml.org/wgroup/rptwg/rptwgcharter.doc.

28

See Letter from FIX Protocol Limited to SEC (August 5, 2010), available at
http://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-11-10/s71110-32.pdf.

29

Id.

30

Id.

31

Id.

32

See Appendix.

11

2.

Interoperability and Acceptance of Existing Standards

Interoperability is the ability of two or more systems to exchange data and for the data to
be automatically interpreted. While FpML and FIXML both rely on XML to exchange data,
they are not interoperable unless a common data model is built that allows a translation between
the two standards. As a result, the Commission has developed a common data model that uses as
a basis the existing overlap of the standards’ current coverages of SBS data. The Commission’s
common data model is a representation of the SBS data elements required to be made available
to the Commission. The Commission preliminarily believes that requiring SDRs to use either
the FpML or FIXML schema will help achieve one of the key objectives of Regulation SBSR,
which is to have a complete and intelligible record of all SBS transactions for oversight
purposes. The common data model is represented by two separate schemas, one each for the
FIXML and FPML standards. Accordingly, under the proposed amendment, SDRs can make
SBS data available to the Commission using either the FIXML or FpML schema. The
Commission describes both the common data model and the two schemas in greater detail below.
The Commission notes that ISDA and the FIX Community formed the FpML
Collaboration Working Group in 2004 to support certain aspects of interoperability between
FpML and FIXML. 33 For example, the group addressed the question of how swap execution
facilities would handle the transformation of a FIX message into an FpML message for use in
post-trade confirmation, clearing, and trade reporting with a solution that supports detailed
FpML messages contained within a compact FIX message. The group also facilitated a common
approach to data items for capture of interest rate and credit default swaps during the pre-trade

33

See 2012 FIX-FpML Collaboration WG Charter,
http://www.fixtradingcommunity.org/mod/file/download.php?file_guid=46484.

12

and trade lifecycles. To date, the Commission’s understanding is that this group has not
generated a common data model as proposed in this release.
3.

Proposed Amendment to Rule 13n–4(a)(5) to Specify the Format for Direct
Electronic Access

The Commission is proposing to amend Rule 13n–4(a)(5) to specify the form and manner
with which SDRs must provide direct electronic access to the Commission. In particular, under
the proposal, SDRs must provide direct electronic access using either the FpML schema or the
FIXML schema as published on the Commission’s website. The Commission is also proposing
to require that the SDRs use the most recent schema as published on the website as the
Commission anticipates that the schemas will be updated periodically to reflect changes in the
FpML and FIXML standards, or to reflect changes in industry practice or financial products
covered by Regulation SBSR. As with the Commission’s updates to other taxonomies and
schemas, 34 Commission staff will post draft schemas on the Commission’s website for the public
to review and provide comment before posting any final schemas.
B.

Commission Schemas

As mentioned above, the Commission has developed a common data model, which is the
logical arrangement of the data elements that comprise a transaction report as described under
Regulation SBSR and how those data elements relate to each other. The purpose of the common
data model is to improve the consistency and reliability of the data made available to the
Commission for analysis and aggregation along various dimensions, such as across SDRs, within
an SDR, by counterparty, or by product. The Commission’s common data model reflects the

34

See, e.g., Rating History Files Publication Guide, http://xbrl.sec.gov/doc/rocrpublication-guide-draft-2014-12-15.pdf, and Release Notes for SEC Taxonomies 2015Draft, http://xbrl.sec.gov/doc/releasenotes-2015-draft.pdf.

13

reporting requirements under Regulation SBSR. The Commission’s schemas for SBS data are
formal representations of the Commission’s common data model.
For example, a schema representing the common data model would require that a
transaction record made available to the Commission include the terms of any standardized fixed
or floating rate payments that correspond exactly to Rule 901(c)(1)(iv). However, consistent
with Regulation SBSR, such a schema would allow flexibility in how information may be
reported to a registered SDR. For example, consistent with Rule 901(c)(1), a schema that
represents the common data model would not require data elements to satisfy Rules 901(c)(1)(iv)
if a product ID reported under Rule 901(c)(1) already includes the information that would be
captured by data elements associated with Rules 901(c)(1)(iv) data elements.
To implement the common data model into an electronic format according to which
SDRs could provide direct electronic access to the Commission, the Commission has developed
two distinct schemas (computer code representations of the common data model), one based on
the FpML standard, and the other based on the FIXML standard. Under the proposed
amendment, an SDR could provide the Commission with direct electronic access by using either
schema or both schemas. SBS transaction records structured according to one of the schemas
could be immediately aggregated, compared, and analyzed by the Commission.
At this time, the Commission is aware of only the FpML and FIXML standards for
representing SBS data. In its evaluation of the potential applicability of these two standards for
the purpose of regulatory reporting of SBS transactions, Commission staff undertook a mapping
exercise, the results of which are reported in the appendix, to determine how much of the
Commission’s common data model could be represented using the existing reporting elements
within the two standards. Commission staff found that there exists significant overlap between

14

the FpML and FIXML standards in their descriptions of SBS data, and that almost all concepts
of the common data model can be represented with existing FpML and FIXML reporting
elements. 35 In light of this and the SBS industry’s current familiarity with and acceptance of
these widely-used standards, the Commission believes that using FpML and FIXML schemas is
an efficient and effective approach for satisfying the necessary form and manner of direct
electronic access. Moreover, in light of prior engagement with the regulatory community and
prior efforts to support regulatory requirements by the bodies that maintain both FpML and
FIXML, 36 the Commission anticipates that the bodies responsible for maintaining each industry
standard are likely to update these standards to incorporate any remaining data elements needed
for the purpose of reporting under SBSR. In particular, Commission staff has identified concepts
within the proposed common data model that do not currently have equivalent data elements in
FpML or FIXML. As discussed further below, in cases where concepts within the common data
model do not yet have equivalents in FpML or FIXML, the Commission’s schemas use
extensions of existing FpML and FIXML reporting elements that accommodate the kind of data
required by the common data model’s concept.
Both FpML and FIXML employ data models to logically arrange and organize their
respective data elements in specific ways. These data models reflect each’s’ decisions regarding
how to represent their data elements for reporting and communication purposes. The
Commission’s schemas would not require alteration of the standards’ data models, but rather
would incorporate each standard’s data models as they are used to represent one of their data
elements. As a result, the mapping of FpML and FIXML to the common data model does not
35

See Appendix.

36

See Section II.A.1.

15

necessarily reflect a one-to-one mapping between named data elements. In some instances, a
single concept in the Commission’s common data model maps to a group of data elements within
FpML or FIXML. For example, FIXML models the terms of any standardized fixed rate
payments by arranging multiple FIXML data elements that each represent a different attribute of
a payment stream, including settlement currency, day count convention, and fixed rate. This
FIXML data model composed of multiple data elements maps to a single concept in the common
data model that corresponds to Rule 901(c)(1)(iv). 37
1.

Common Data Model Treatment of Broad Categories of Transaction
Information

Below, we describe how Regulation SBSR provides the basis for the requirements of the
common data model by examining how the schemas representing the common data model would
treat broad categories of transaction information and how they would define relationships
between specific data elements within those broad categories by placing restrictions on SBS data.
The Commission notes that the concepts within the common data model are limited to those
required to be reported to registered SDRs under Rules 901, 905, and 906 and required to be
assigned by registered SDRs under Rule 907. The common data model also relies on definitions
provided by Rule 900.
a.

Primary Trade Information

Rule 901(c) sets forth the data elements of a security-based swap that must be reported to
a registered SDR and will then be publicly disseminated by the registered SDR pursuant to Rule
902(a) (unless an exception applies). These data elements generally encompass the means of
identifying the contract and the basic economic terms of the contract and include any

37

See Appendix.

16

standardized payment streams associated with a contract, the notional value of the contract, the
transaction price, and other information necessary for interpreting transaction prices such as a
variable that would indicate the intent to clear a transaction.
In order for the Commission to aggregate and analyze SBS data, Regulation SBSR
requires reporting participants to report certain information about each security-based swap
transaction. To provide a standardized means for identifying security-based swaps that share
certain material economic terms, the Commission requires reporting participants to utilize a
product ID of a security-based swap when one is available. 38 If the security-based swap has no
product ID, or if the product ID does not include the information enumerated in Rules
901(c)(1)(i)-(v) of Regulation SBSR, then the information specified in subparagraphs (i)-(v) of
Rule 901(c)(1) must be reported separately. 39 The FpML and FIXML schemas would allow
these data elements described in Rules 901(c)(1)(i)-(v) to supplement product IDs, and
validations in each schema would indicate an error if the product ID is not provided and none of
these supplementary data elements are included. In addition, as contemplated by Rule
901(c)(1)(v), the common data model would include a “custom swap flag” that would indicate
when the information provided pursuant to Rules 901(c)(1)(i)-(iv) does not provide all of the
material information necessary to calculate the price of a security-based swap.
38

See Regulation SBSR Adopting Release, 80 FR at 14570.

39

Subparagraph (i) requires information that identifies the security-based swap, including
the asset class of the security-based swap and the specific underlying reference asset(s),
reference issuer(s), or reference index. Subparagraph (ii) requires the effective date.
Subparagraph (iii) requires the scheduled termination date. Subparagraph (iv) requires
the terms of any standardized fixed or floating rate payments, and the frequency of any
such payments. Subparagraph (v) requires a bespoke condition flag if the security-based
swap is customized to the extent that the information provided in subparagraphs (i)-(iv)
of Rule 901(c)(1) does not provide all of the material information necessary to identify
the customized security-based swap or does not contain the data elements necessary to
calculate the price.

17

Rule 901(c) also requires reporting of certain details about an SBS transaction, including
the execution time, price, and notional amount. The precise formats in which these elements can
be provided have been determined by each industry standard. For example, the various FIXML
data elements that express execution time are all expressed in coordinated universal time (UTC).
Similarly, currencies that denominate price and notional amount are expressed using ISO 4217
currency codes. 40
Finally, the common data model would include concepts that correspond to requirements
in Rules 901(c)(5) and 901(c)(6) for flags that indicate inter-dealer transactions and transactions
that counterparties intend to clear. In addition to these required flags, Rule 901(c)(7) requires
that the person with a duty to report include any additional transaction flags as specified in the
policies and procedures of the registered SDR to which they report.
b.

Reportable Events and Transaction Identifiers

Rule 901(a) assigns reporting duties for the security-based swaps described in Rule
908(a), including new security-based swaps and those that result from the allocation,
termination, novation, or assignment of other security-based swaps. Rule 901(e) requires
reporting of life cycle events. Rule 901(i) requires reporting, to the extent the information is
available, of security-based swaps entered into before the date of enactment of the Dodd-Frank
Act and security-based swaps entered into after the date of enactment but before Rule 901
becomes fully operative. Finally, Rule 905 sets out procedures for correcting errors to
previously submitted transaction information. The schemas would include requirements for all
of these event types. Both FIXML and FpML currently support the reporting of both new

40

See ISO 4217 – Currency Codes,
http://www.iso.org/iso/home/standards/currency_codes.htm (last visited Dec. 8, 2015).

18

transactions as well as most of the other types of events required to be reported under Regulation
SBSR, and so the schemas would include explicit mappings between existing FIXML and FpML
events and those included in the common data model as a result of reporting requirements under
Regulation SBSR.
Under Rule 901(g), a registered SDR must assign a transaction ID to each new securitybased swap that is reported to it or establish a methodology for doing so. Further, Rule
901(d)(10) requires reports of allocations, termination, novation, or assignment of one or more
existing security-based swaps to include the transaction ID of the security-based swap that is
allocated, terminated, novated, or assigned, while Rule 901(e)(2) requires reports of life cycle
events to include the transaction ID of the original transaction. As the Commission discussed in
the Regulation SBSR Adopting Release, requiring the use of a transaction ID in these instances
would enable the Commission to update a transaction record to incorporate the life cycle event
and map a new security-based swap to a corresponding prior transaction, even if the prior
transaction was reported to a different registered SDR. 41 To ensure consistency in the use of
transaction IDs and enable the Commission to link together related transactions even if stored at
different SDRs, the schemas that represent the common data model would stipulate how
transaction reporting would link new trade activity and life cycle events to existing transactions
through the use of the transaction ID. Further, the schemas would stipulate how an SDR would
include the original transaction ID on records that involve allocations, terminations, novations, or
assignments.

41

See Regulation SBSR Adopting Release, 80 FR at 14589.

19

c.

Market Participant Identifiers

Rules 901(d)(1), 901(d)(2), 901(d)(9), 906(a), and 906(b) require reporting of the identity
of each counterparty to a security-based swap as well as certain other persons who are affiliated
with the counterparties or are otherwise involved in the transaction but who are not
counterparties of that specific transaction. Because the Commission has recognized the Global
Legal Entity Identifier System (GLEIS) as an Internationally Recognized Standard Setting
System (IRSS) that assigns unique identification codes (“UICs”) to persons, these types of
persons are required to obtain an LEI and registered SDRs are required to use these LEIs to
identify these persons. Because the requirement to obtain an LEI does not apply to all persons
enumerated in Rules 901(d)(1), 901(d)(2), 901(d)(9), 906(a), and 906(b), the schemas would
accommodate identifiers that are not LEIs. 42
Similarly, the schemas would accommodate LEI and non-LEI identifiers for execution
agent IDs and broker IDs, since such persons might not have an LEI. Further, because no IRSS
meeting the requirements of 903(a) has assigned or developed a methodology for assigning
branch IDs, trader IDs, and trading desk IDs, the schemas would accommodate the identifiers or
methodologies developed by the registered SDRs.
d.

Cash Flows for Customized Contracts

Rule 901(d)(3) requires reporting of details regarding the payment terms, frequencies,
and contingencies for non-standard, or bespoke, contracts. The schemas would accommodate
these as separate data elements by including restrictions so that these data elements would be
permitted only if the custom swap flag discussed in Section II.B.1.a is set by the registered SDR
based on the transaction data that it receives from the reporting participant.
42

See id. at 14632.

20

e.

Agreements

Rule 901(d)(4) requires, for transactions that are not clearing transactions, the title and
date of any master agreement, collateral agreement, margin agreement, or any other agreement
incorporated by reference into the SBS contract. For example, to reflect these reporting
requirements the schemas would include a flag to identify clearing transactions. For purposes of
validation, if the clearing transaction flag is not set by the registered SDR, the registered SDR
would be required to provide the agreement information provided by a reporting side under Rule
901(d)(4), if applicable, as separate data elements as well as provide the settlement details
provided by reporting participants under Rule 901(d)(8). If instead the clearing transaction flag
identifies a security-based swap as a clearing transaction, the associated transaction record would
be valid even in the absence of the title and date of any master agreement, collateral agreement,
margin agreement, or any other agreement incorporated by reference into the SBS contract
because the Commission believes it could obtain this information from the registered clearing
agency as necessary. 43 Additionally, if the clearing transaction flag is not set because of the
exception in Section 3C(g) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c–3(g)) has been invoked, then an
indication would be provided by the SDR.
f.

Clearing

Under Rule 901(c)(6), the person with the duty to report must indicate with a flag
whether there is an intent to clear a transaction. The schemas would include such a flag. Rule
901(d)(6) also requires reporting of the name of the clearing agency to which the swap will be
submitted for clearing. Therefore, if the reporting participant 44 has included an “intent to clear”

43

See Regulation SBSR Adopting Release, 80 FR at 14586.

44

See §242.901(a).

21

flag, then expression of the intent to clear within the common data model would require the
registered SDR to also include the name of the clearing agency to which the security-based swap
will be submitted for clearing.
2.

Required Reporting Elements that Do Not Exist in FpML or FIXML

As mentioned earlier, some concepts within the common data model do not currently
have existing equivalents within FpML or FIXML. These include:
•

custom swap flag; 45

•

the currencies of any upfront payment, 46 if applicable;

•

a description of the settlement terms; 47

•

inter-dealer swap flag; 48

•

the title of any margin agreement; 49 and

•

the date of any margin agreement. 50
In these cases, the schemas would require specific extensions of existing FpML and

FIXML reporting elements. For flags required by Rule 901(c)(7), the Commission’s schemas
would require registered SDRs to populate the section with the flags identified within their own
policies and then to select from those. As we discuss in Section III.C.2, both FpML and FIXML
undergo regular updates. To the extent that the FpML and FIXML standards address the
common data model as part of their periodic updates, the Commission expects that the standards
45

See §242.901(c)(1)(v).

46

See §242.901(c)(3).

47

See §242.901(d)(8).

48

See §242.901(c)(5).

49

See §242.901(d)(4).

50

See id.

22

will create defined elements to replace the initial use of extensions. When the Commission
periodically updates its schemas, each schema will reflect the most recent version of each
standard.
3.

Validations

As mentioned above, the schemas would incorporate validations. These validations are
restrictions placed on the form and manner of the reported SBS data that help ensure that the data
SDRs make available to the Commission adhere to the appropriate schema. In particular, the
validations test for completeness of the data and for appropriate format. As a result, the
validations will enhance the Commission’s ability to normalize and aggregate the data. These
validations are effective at testing for whether the SBS data conforms to the technical
specifications of the schema. However, these validations will not test for whether the SBS data
accurately reflects the transaction that took place. By using the incorporated validations, SDRs
will help ensure that their stored data adheres to the appropriate schema, thereby providing the
Commission with direct electronic access pursuant to Rule 13n-4(b)(5).
4.

Regulatory and Technical Coordination

In developing these proposed rules, we have consulted and coordinated with the CFTC
and the prudential regulators 51 in accordance with the consultation mandate of the Dodd-Frank

51

The term “prudential regulator” is defined in section 1a(39) of the Commodity Exchange
Act, 7 U.S.C. 1a(39), and that definition is incorporated by reference in section 3(a)(74)
of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(74). Pursuant to the definition, the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Federal Reserve Board”), the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Farm Credit
Administration, or the Federal Housing Finance Agency (collectively, the “prudential
regulators”) is the “prudential regulator” of a security-based swap dealer or major
security-based swap participant if the entity is directly supervised by that regulator.

23

Act. 52 We have also incorporated the past experiences of the CFTC regarding their swap data
collection efforts, and consulted with both the CFTC and U.S. Department of the Treasury’s
Office of Financial Research regarding draft technical documentation, including the FIXML and
FpML schemas. More generally, as part of the Commission’s coordination efforts, Commission
staff continue to participate in bilateral and multilateral discussions, task forces, and working
groups on data harmonization and the regulation of OTC derivatives.
C.
•

Request for Comment

The Commission has developed two interoperable schemas so that SDRs can make SBS
transaction data available to the Commission using already existing standards in a form
and manner that can be easily utilized by the Commission for analysis and aggregation.
Are there other ways to provide for the representation of SBS transactions that could be
easily utilized by the Commission? If so, what are they? What are their strengths and
weaknesses?

•

Should the Commission require direct electronic access be provided by SDRs using only
an FpML schema? Should the Commission require direct electronic access be provided
by SDRs using only an FIXML schema? Is there another standard that the Commission
should consider as acceptable? If so, which characteristics about that standard should
make it acceptable to the Commission and how does that standard affect the
Commission’s ability to normalize, aggregate, and analyze the SBS data?

52

Section 712(a)(2) of the Dodd-Frank Act provides in part that the Commission shall
“consult and coordinate to the extent possible with the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission and the prudential regulators for the purposes of assuring regulatory
consistency and comparability, to the extent possible.”

24

•

Does the Commission’s approach to providing for direct electronic access using either the
FpML or FIXML schemas allow for the accurate representation of SBS transactions as
described in Regulation SBSR? If not, why not?

•

Are the FpML and FIXML standards sufficiently developed to require either one of them
to be used by SDRs to provide access to the required SBS data? What factors or
indicators should the Commission use to determine when an SBS-related standard has
become sufficiently developed to require its use for providing the Commission with
direct electronic access to SBS data?

•

Should the Commission allow SDRs to develop their own standards or leverage other
standards to provide access to the Commission? How would the Commission’s ability to
normalize, aggregate, and analyze the data be affected if SDRs used different standards
and developed different schemas for representing the SBS data?

•

Instead of leveraging industry standards, such as FIXML and FpML, should the
Commission create a new standard or contract with a third-party to create a new
standard? Why or why not?

•

Are there other approaches to developing or using a standard that the Commission should
consider? Please explain in detail.

•

What would be the costs to an SDR to provide data in either FpML or FIXML standard?
Are there other ways that SBS data should be provided to the Commission? Are there
other standards that would cost less but still allow the Commission to similarly
normalize, aggregate, and analyze the data?
25

•

Should the Commission institute a test phase for providing this information in either an
FpML or FIXML standard? If so, how long should this test phase last?

•

Other than using schemas, is there another effective mechanism for SDRs to provide
direct electronic access to the Commission that still achieves similar or better aggregation
and consistency results?

•

The Commission intends to incorporate validations into its schemas to help ensure the
quality and completeness of the SBS data that SDRs make available to the Commission.
Is there another effective mechanism that would help ensure completeness and still
achieve similar or better aggregation and consistency results?

•

How should the common data model support reporting requirements that do not yet have
equivalents in FpML or FIXML, while preserving the ability to normalize, aggregate, and
analyze the data? As discussed in Section II.B.2, the Commission’s schemas would
require specific extensions of existing FpML and FIXML reporting elements. Is there a
better alternative? Specifically, how would the alternative affect SDRs, the Commission,
and market participants?

III.

Economic Analysis
On February 11, 2015, the Commission adopted the SDR Rules, 53 which govern SDR

registration, duties, and core principles, 54 and Regulation SBSR, which governs the reporting to
registered SDRs of SBS data and public dissemination by registered SDRs of a subset of that

53

See supra note 1.

54

See supra note 2.

26

data. 55 In combination, these rules represent a significant step forward in providing a regulatory
framework to promote transparency and efficiency in the OTC derivatives markets and assist
relevant authorities in performing their market oversight functions. As noted earlier in Section
I.A, the Commission is concerned that SDRs might provide direct electronic access to data in a
form and manner that is not conducive to the Commission’s ability to analyze the data or surveil
the SBS market. Under the proposed amendment, the Commission would specify the form and
manner with which SDRs must provide direct electronic access to the Commission by requiring
SDRs to comply with the appropriate schema as will be published on the Commission’s website.
The Commission is sensitive to the economic effects of the rules that it proposes,
including implications for efficiency, competition, and capital formation. The Commission
preliminarily believes that the proposed rule would provide a number of benefits and result in
certain costs. Section 23(a)(2) of the Exchange Act 56 requires the Commission, when making
rules under the Exchange Act, to consider the impact that any new rule would have on
competition. In addition, Section 23(a)(2) prohibits the Commission from adopting any rule that
would impose a burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the
purposes of the Exchange Act. Furthermore, Section 3(f) of the Exchange Act 57 requires the
Commission, when engaging in rulemaking pursuant to the Exchange Act where it is required to
consider or determine whether an action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, to
consider, in addition to the protection of investors, whether the action will promote efficiency,
competition, and capital formation.

55

See supra notes 3-4.

56

15 U.S.C. 78w(a)(2).

57

15 U.S.C. 78c(f).

27

In many instances the potential benefits and costs of the proposed amendment are
difficult to quantify. In particular, the Commission does not have precise estimates of the
monetary benefits arising from the anticipated improvement in the Commission’s ability to
accurately analyze data made available by a single SDR, and the anticipated improvement in the
Commission’s ability to aggregate and analyze data made available by multiple SDRs. Benefits
may arise from these improvements indirectly to the extent that facilitating the Commission’s
oversight of SBS market activity reduces the likelihood of abuse in the SBS market and risks to
financial stability emanating from the SBS market, however the Commission does not have data
that would enable it to estimate the magnitude of either of these effects.
Similarly, the Commission also does not have the data to estimate the potential costs that
might be associated with reduced competition in the SDR industry that could result from the
proposed approach. As we discuss in more detail below, a potential result of reduced
competition among SDRs is that SDRs increase prices for their services or decrease the quantity
or quality of their services. While the Commission acknowledges these potential costs, it does
not have information about SDR services that would be necessary to estimate changes in prices,
quality of service, or quantity of service that might result from reduced competition. One reason
for this lack of information is that, to date, no SDRs have registered with the Commission.
Where possible, we provide quantitative estimates of the potential costs of the proposed
amendments. We provide discussions of a qualitative nature when quantification is not possible.
A.

Economic Baseline

To examine the potential economic effects of the proposed amendments, our analysis
considers as a baseline the rules adopted by the Commission that affect regulatory reporting and
public dissemination, particularly those rules adopted as part of Regulation SBSR and the SDR
Rules. The baseline includes our current understanding of international industry standards and
28

market practices, including how those standards and practices have been influenced by the
actions of other regulators. This section begins by summarizing the economic implications of
regulatory reporting and public dissemination under the Commission’s current regulatory
framework for the SBS market and describing the data currently made available to the
Commission on a voluntary basis. Following this discussion, the section describes the number of
SDRs likely to be affected by the proposed amendments before examining the current state of the
FIXML and FpML standards.
1.

The SDR Rules and Regulation SBSR

As mentioned above, the Commission recently adopted the SDR Rules and Regulation
SBSR. Together, the rules seek to provide improved transparency to regulators and the markets
through comprehensive regulations for SBS transaction data and SDRs. 58 As the Commission
envisioned in the SDR Adopting Release, SDRs will become an essential part of the
infrastructure of the SBS market. 59 Persons that meet the definition of an SDR will be required
by the SDR Rules to maintain policies and procedures relating to data accuracy and maintenance,
and will be further required by Regulation SBSR to publicly disseminate transaction-level data,
thereby promoting post-trade transparency in the SBS market.
Additionally, as a result of the SDR Rules and Regulation SBSR, increased quality and
quantity of pricing and volume information and other information available to the Commission
about the SBS market may enhance the Commission’s ability to respond to market
developments. To help inform its understanding of the SBS market, the Commission currently
relies upon data on individual CDS transactions voluntarily provided by the Depository Trust

58

See SDR Adopting Release, 80 FR at 14440.

59

See id. at 14528.

29

and Clearing Corporation (“DTCC”) Trade Information Warehouse (‘‘TIW’’). This information
is made available to the Commission in accordance with an agreement between the DTCC–TIW
and the OTC Derivatives Regulators’ Forum (‘‘ODRF’’), of which the Commission is a member.
The DTCC–TIW data provides sufficient information to identify the types of market
participants active in the SBS market and the general pattern of dealing within that market.
However, as the Commission noted in the SDR Adopting Release, the DTCC–TIW data does not
encompass CDS transactions that both: (i) do not involve any U.S. counterparty, and (ii) are not
based on a U.S. reference entity. 60 Furthermore, because counterparties to CDS transactions
voluntarily submit data to DTCC-TIW to support commercial activities, the data are not
necessarily suited to support the Commission’s needs, the legal requirements underlying the
rules (e.g., the Dodd-Frank Act) or regulatory needs. For example, the transaction records
captured by DTCC–TIW allow the Commission to identify trade execution dates but do not
provide data to determine trade execution times. 61 Both Regulation SBSR and the SDR Rules
will assist the Commission in fulfilling its regulatory mandates such as detecting market
manipulation, fraud, and other market abuses by providing it with access to more detailed SBS
information than that provided under the voluntary reporting regime.
2.

Swap Data Repositories

In the SDR Adopting Release, the Commission estimated that 10 persons may register
with the Commission as SDRs. 62 The Commission notes that in the swap market, only four
60

See SDR Adopting Release, 80 FR at 14445.

61

See Memorandum by the Staffs of the Division of Trading and Markets and the Division
of Economic and Risk Analysis of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,
Inventory risk management by dealers in the single-name credit default swap market
(Oct. 17, 2014), available at http://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-34-10/s73410-184.pdf.

62

See SDR Adopting Release, 80 FR at 14521.
30

persons have been provisionally registered with the CFTC for regulatory reporting in the swap
market as SDRs thus far: BSDR LLC, Chicago Mercantile Exchange, Inc., DTCC Data
Repository, and ICE Trade Vault. 63 BSDR LLC and DTCC Data Repository currently allow
reporting participants to submit transaction data using FpML. 64 Intercontinental Exchange, the
parent of ICE Trade Vault, uses FpML, 65 while Chicago Mercantile Exchange, Inc. allows
reporting participants to submit transaction data using FIXML. 66 Accordingly, the Commission
continues to preliminarily believe that approximately 10 persons would register with the
Commission as SDRs.
3.

FIXML and FpML

As previously discussed in Section II.A, there are two international industry standards for
representing SBS data: FpML and FIXML. 67 Both are open standards, meaning that they are
technological standards that are widely available to the public at no cost. In addition, both
standards are independent of the software and hardware used by market participants, thus
63

See U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Swap Data Repository
Organizations, http://sirt.cftc.gov/sirt/sirt.aspx?Topic=DataRepositories (last visited Dec.
8, 2015).

64

See Bloomberg Swap Data Repository, BDSR APIs, http://www.bloombergsdr.com/api
(describing trade submission methods available to participants reporting to BDSR) (last
visited Dec. 8, 2015). See also DTCC, US DDR SDR, http://www.dtcc.com/data-andrepository-services/global-trade-repository/gtr-us.aspx (describing submission formats
supported by DTCC Data Repository) (last visited Dec. 8 2015).

65

See ISDA FpML Survey Annex 1 (January 2011),
http://www.isda.org/media/press/2011/pdf/isda-fpml-user-survey.pdf (listing ICE as an
FpML user).

66

See CME Group, Submitting Trades to the CME Swap Data Repository,
http://www.cmegroup.com/trading/global-repository-services/submitting-trades-to-cmerepository-service.html (detailing data submission requirements for the CME Swap Data
Repository) (last visited Dec. 8, 2015).

67

The Commission is aware that market participants may also use proprietary XML
representations of transactions data.

31

facilitating interoperability. Representatives from the financial industry, including those in the
SBS market, and market participants are involved in maintaining, developing, and updating both
standards to support, among other things, market practices and regulatory reporting
requirements. FpML maintenance is undertaken by the FpML Standards Committee, which is
made up of representatives from a range of financial market participants including banks,
brokers, CCPs, and other financial infrastructure providers. FIX is owned, maintained, and
developed through the collaborative efforts of the FIX Trading Community, which is a nonprofit, industry-driven standards body comprised of over 270 member firms from the global
financial services industry. 68
Based on the fact that there is substantial industry involvement in the development of
both standards, the Commission preliminarily believes that the majority of transactions
reportable under Regulation SBSR would include at least one counterparty that is familiar with
communicating transaction details using FpML or FIXML or currently supports such
communication. Further, most market participants will have familiarity with using FpML and/or
FIXML for transaction reporting, including reporting to meet reporting obligations under the
rules of other jurisdictions. For example, the FpML Regulatory Reporting Working Group has
developed a draft mapping document that relates data elements required by seven regulators
other than the Commission, in various jurisdictions, to corresponding FpML fields. 69 The FIX
Community has similarly provided documentation to show how data represented in FIX

68

Updates to FpML are regularly announced at www.fpml.org, while updates to the FIX
protocol, including updates to FIXML are regularly announced at
http://www.fixtradingcommunity.org/pg/structure/tech-specs/fix-protocol (last visited
Dec. 8, 2015).

69

See supra note 26.

32

corresponds to certain regulatory reporting requirements. 70 These efforts provide evidence that
the groups responsible for developing FIX and FpML are already responding to regulatory
reporting requirements by updating their reporting elements, and that market participants that use
these standards would likely be able to use these standards to discharge reporting obligations.
As noted in Section II.B.1, the schemas would include data elements that correspond to
concepts defined in Rule 900 and required to be reported to registered SDRs by Rule 901. It
would also include certain data elements derived from obligations of registered SDRs under Rule
907. Based on a mapping exercise conducted by Commission staff, the Commission
preliminarily believes that both the FpML and FIMXL reporting standards already include
defined data elements that can be used to cover many of the concepts in the common data model.
However, the Commission staff has identified several instances of concepts within the proposed
common data model that do not yet have equivalently defined data elements in FpML or FIXML.
In those cases, the schemas published on the Commission’s website would provide extensions of
existing FpML and FIXML reporting elements. To the extent that the FpML and FIXML
standards address the common data model as part of their periodic updates, the Commission
expects that the standards will create defined elements to replace the initial use of extensions. If
the Commission were to adopt a rule that required SDRs to make SBS data available to the
Commission using the FpML or FIXML standards, the Commission anticipates that its staff
would keep apprised of relevant advances and developments with those standards and engage
with each standard’s working group regarding such developments, as appropriate.

70

See, e.g., FIX Protocol, Limited, Global Technical Committee and Futures Industry
Association, CFTC Part 43 & 45 Gap Analysis III Foreign Exchange, (Jan. 3, 2013),
available at http://www.fixtradingcommunity.org/mod/file/view.php?file_guid=46985.

33

B.

Benefits

The Commission preliminarily believes that the proposed amendment, by specifying the
form and manner with which SDRs would be required to make SBS data available to the
Commission, provide for the accurate analysis of data made available by a single SDR, and the
aggregation and analysis of data made available by multiple SDRs. In particular, the proposed
amendment would enable the aggregation of SBS data by the Commission.
In the SDR Adopting Release, the Commission recognized that the benefits associated
with SDR duties, data collection and maintenance, and direct electronic access may be reduced
to the extent that SBS market data are fragmented across multiple SDRs. 71 Fragmentation of
SBS market data may impose costs on any user of this data associated with consolidating,
reconciling, and aggregating this data. Without a common data model expressed in specific
formats, SDRs might, for example, make available to the Commission SBS data that are
formatted using a variety of standards including FpML, FIXML, or other distinct proprietary
standards or methods. Such an outcome could significantly increase the complexity of data
aggregation, or perhaps even render data aggregation impractical because the Commission would
have to map each standard to the common data model and might need to transform data from
each SDR to meaningfully aggregate data across SDRs. Adding to the complexity of data
aggregation, the Commission would have to repeat the mapping exercise and update data
transformations each time an SDR chooses to update its standard, which could be disruptive to
the Commission’s monitoring and surveillance efforts.
By limiting SDRs’ flexibility to a choice between FpML and FIXML, the Commission
seeks to facilitate data aggregation and analysis by specifying the form and manner with which
71

See SDR Adopting Release, 80 FR at 14538.

34

SDRs would be required to make SBS data available to the Commission. Adherence by SDRs to
the schemas when providing direct electronic access should enhance the Commission’s ability to
analyze the data maintained by a single SDR, and allow the Commission to more effectively
aggregate and analyze data received from multiple SDRs. Furthermore, the proposed
amendment also simplifies the aggregation task because the Commission would determine the
permitted formatting standards and schemas, not the SDRs. As a result, the process of data
aggregation will not be complicated or disrupted by SDRs’ decisions to update their formatting
standards for reasons unrelated to regulatory requirements. The proposed amendment affords a
simpler data aggregation process compared to an alternative in which SDRs exercise full
discretion over the choice of formatting standard for providing direct electronic access and the
timing for using the chosen standard.
As discussed above, the schemas would incorporate validations. 72 These validations are
restrictions placed on the form and manner of the SBS data made available by SDRs to the
Commission that help ensure that the data SDRs make available to the Commission adhere to the
appropriate schema. In particular, the validations test whether the data are complete and
appropriately formatted and will likely enhance the Commission’s ability to normalize and
aggregate the data. While validations incorporated into the schemas will be effective for
checking data completeness and appropriate formatting, schema validations will not test for
whether the SBS data accurately reflects the transaction that took place.
The proposed amendment may also indirectly improve the quality of regulatory reporting
in a number of ways. First, by specifying the form and manner with which SDRs must make
SBS data available to the Commission, the proposed amendment might provide SDRs an
72

See Section II.C.3 of this release.

35

incentive to limit the range of ways that their participants can report SBS transaction data to
them. If the proposed amendment results in clearer policies and procedures of registered SDRs,
then the result could be more efficient reporting. Second, by leveraging existing industry
standards, the proposed amendment may indirectly improve SBS data quality by eliminating the
need for SDRs to reformat data already structured in FpML or FIXML in some different
Commission specific format, thus reducing the likelihood that SDRs introduce errors in the
process of reformatting data.
C.

Costs

The Commission has preliminarily identified three potential sources of costs associated
with the proposed amendment. The first potential source is SDRs’ implementation of the
proposed amendment, the second potential source is the extension of existing standards to meet
the Commission’s reporting requirements and the updating of those standards if necessary, and
the third potential source arises from limiting the flexibility of SDRs in making SBS data
available to the Commission.
1.

Implementation cost to SDRs

As the Commission noted in the SDR Adopting Release, the cost imposed on SDRs to
provide direct electronic access to the Commission should be minimal as SDRs likely have or
will establish comparable electronic access mechanisms to enable market participants to provide
data to SDRs and review transactions to which such participants are parties. 73 Further, as the
Commission noted in Section III.A, many of the entities likely to register with the Commission
as SDRs already accept transactions data from reporting persons who submit trade information
using the FpML and FIXML standards.
73

See SDR Adopting Release, 80 FR at 14539.
36

Nevertheless, the Commission acknowledges that, as a result of the proposed amendment,
SDRs may decide to implement policies, procedures, and information systems to ensure that SBS
data made available to the Commission is in a form and manner that satisfies the requirements
laid out in the schemas. The Commission preliminarily believes that the costs of implementing
such policies, procedures, and information systems are likely to be related to conforming their
data models to one of the Commission’s schemas and are likely to be smaller for those SDRs that
already employ FIXML or FpML. The Commission preliminarily believes that these costs,
which are in addition to the internal costs related to information technology systems, policies,
and procedures the Commission estimated in the SDR Adopting Release, 74 would be
approximately $127,000 in one-time costs per SDR, on average, 75 for an expected aggregate onetime cost of approximately $1,270,000. 76 To arrive at these estimates, we assume that each SDR
74

See id.

75

The Commission preliminarily estimates that an SDR will assign responsibilities for
modifications of information technology systems to an Attorney, a Compliance Manager,
a Programmer Analyst and a Senior Business Analyst and responsibilities for policies and
procedures to an Attorney, a Compliance Manager, a Senior Systems Analyst and an
Operations Specialist. Data from SIFMA’s Management & Professional Earnings in the
Securities Industry 2013, modified by Commission staff to account for an 1800-hour
work-year and multiplied by 5.35 to account for bonuses, firm size, employee benefits,
and overhead, suggest that the cost of a Compliance Manager is $283 per hour, a
Programmer Analyst is $220 per hour, a Senior Systems Specialist is $260 per hour, a
Senior Business Analyst is $251 per hour, and an Operations Specialist is $125 per hour.
Thus, the total initial estimated dollar cost will be $126,736.50 per SDR. This reflects the
sum of the costs of modifying information technology systems ($110,810) and the cost of
modifying policies and procedures ($15,926.50). Costs of modifying information
technology systems are calculated as follows: (Attorney at $380 per hour for 70 hours) +
(Compliance Manager at $283 per hour for 80 hours) + (Programmer Analyst at $220 per
hour for 200 hours) + (Senior Business Analyst at $251 per hour for 70 hours) =
$110,810. Costs of modifying policies and procedures are calculated as follows:
(Attorney at $380 per hour for 21.75 hours) + (Compliance Manager at $283 per hour for
19.25 hours) + (Senior Systems Analyst at $260 per hour for 5.75 hours) + (Operations
Specialist at $125 per hour for 5.75 hours) = $15,926.50.

76

Aggregate costs are calculated as $126,736.50 x 10 SDRs = $1,267,365.
37

will first compare the data model it currently employs to the common data model represented by
the schemas and subsequently make necessary modifications to information technology systems
and policies and procedures.
To the extent that SDRs decide to modify their policies, procedures, and information
technology systems, the Commission preliminarily believes that modifications that would be
needed to support compliance with the proposed amendment are unlikely to change the marginal
burden of providing direct electronic access to transaction records to the Commission. This is
because the only additional costs would be costs incurred by SDRs to use policies, procedures,
and information systems they would have already established to ensure that each additional
transaction record that is made available to the Commission is in a form and manner that meets
the requirements of the schemas.
The Commission also preliminarily believes that certain of these costs may be mitigated
to the extent that the proposed amendment promotes enhancements to FpML and FIXML in
support of regulatory reporting to registered SDRs. If the schemas, by identifying and closing
gaps between reporting requirements and existing standards, encourage the use of FpML and
FIXML by reporting persons instead of other formatting standards, then SDRs could incur a
lower burden of conforming SBS data to one of the Commission’s schemas because SDRs will
be limited to FpML or FIXML when making the data available to the Commission.
The Commission recognizes that while SDRs may directly bear the implementation costs
discussed above, these costs may be shared among market participants other than SDRs in
several ways and will likely be passed through to SBS market participants, potentially in the
form of higher costs for participants of registered SDRs, which in turn could result in higher
transactions costs for counterparties, potentially impairing, albeit indirectly, efficiency in the

38

SBS market and capital formation by SBS market participants. For example, the implementation
costs incurred by registered SDRs could be passed on to reporting participants in the form of
higher fees for reporting transactions. Consider the situation in which a registered SDR takes on
reporting participants as clients before it implements the policies, procedures, and information
systems needed to ensure that SBS data made available to the Commission is in a form and
manner that satisfies the requirements laid out in the schemas. This registered SDR could offset
this implementation cost by levying higher service charges on its participant base.
The ability of SDRs to pass through costs to their participants depends in part on the
market power of SDRs. As discussed in the economic baseline, the Commission preliminarily
believes that a limited number of persons would register with the Commission as SDRs. If there
is only one registered SDR serving all reporting participants, then this SDR would have a greater
ability to shift implementation costs that could arise as a consequence of the proposed
amendment to its users. By contrast, a competitive SDR industry would likely mean that
registered SDRs had less market power, rendering them less able to pass through such costs to
reporting participants.
As an alternative to imposing higher fees on participants, registered SDRs could pass
through a portion of the implementation costs to their participants by requiring reporting parties
to report SBS data using FpML or FIXML in the same manner that the Commission is proposing
to require that SDRs utilize for making data accessible to the Commission under the
Commission’s schemas. Under Rule 907(a)(2), a registered SDR is required to establish and
maintain written policies and procedures that specify one or more acceptable data formats (each
of which must be an open-source structured data format that is widely used by participants),
connectivity requirements, and other protocols for submitting information. In response to the

39

proposed amendment, registered SDRs might elect to establish policies and procedures that
would facilitate conforming transaction data submitted by reporting participants to the schemas,
pursuant to which the registered SDRs would be required to make the data accessible to the
Commission. In particular, a registered SDR might elect to establish policies and procedures that
mandate reporting of data elements under Rules 901(c) and 901(d) in the same form and manner
that the Commission is proposing to require of registered SDRs, or levy fees for reformatting
SBS transaction data reported in other formats to conform to one of the schemas. In this
scenario, the registered SDR’s participants could incur costs associated with: (i) modifying their
reporting systems to transmit data to the registered SDR in a FIXML or FpML format that
conforms to one of the schemas; or (ii) the registered SDR’s reformatting of data to conform to
one of the schemas. The registered SDR could subsequently make the data available to the
Commission with minimal resources in ensuring that the data conforms to one of the schemas.
Efficiency in the SBS market and capital formation by SBS market participants may be
impaired, albeit indirectly, by registered SDRs’ decisions to require reporting parties to report
SBS data using FpML or FIXML under the Commission’s schemas. If the technologies required
to implement the proposed amendment have scale economies, then an outcome in which
reporting participants independently modify their reporting systems potentially represents an
inefficient use of resources for the SBS market as a whole, even if it results in lower costs to
SDRs, and particularly if reporting participants that do not otherwise have a frequent duty to
report also modify their reporting systems. While acknowledging the potential for these
inefficiencies, the Commission preliminarily believes they are unlikely to manifest for a number

40

of reasons. First, because FpML and FIXML are currently international industry standards, 77 it
is likely that a significant proportion of reporting participants already use either FpML or
FIXML. Participants with reporting obligations include SBS dealers; the Commission has also
proposed reporting obligations for clearing agencies. 78 Commission staff has determined that all
four clearing agencies currently clearing index and single name CDS use either FpML or
FIXML, 79 and at least fourteen of the fifteen major dealers recognized by ISDA use either FpML
or FIXML 80. Reporting participants that already use FpML or FIXML could potentially adapt
policies, procedures, and information systems to report transactions using one of the schemas at a

77

See Sections II.A.1 and III.A of this release.

78

See Regulation SBSR Adopting Release, 80 FR at 14730. See also Securities Exchange
Act Release No. 74245 (February 11, 2015), 80 FR 14740, 14802 (March 19, 2015)
(“SBSR Amendments Proposing Release”).

79

ICE Clear Credit, ICE Clear Europe, CME, and LCH.Clearnet currently clear index and
single name CDS. See SBSR Amendments Proposing Release 80 FR at 14775. Section
III.A.2 of this release discusses the formatting standards used by ICE and CME.
LCH.Clearnet allows reporting participants to submit transactions data using FpML. See
LCH.Clearnet Ltd, ClearLink Messaging Specification 4 (June 2013), available at
http://www.lchclearnet.com/documents/515114/515787/Clearlink+Technical+Requireme
nts/004bb402-1b77-4561-88d7-c0e7e90b7363.

80

The fifteen major derivatives dealers identified in the 2013 ISDA Operations
Benchmarking Survey are Barclays Capital, BNP Paribas, Bank of America-Merrill
Lynch, Citigroup, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, HSBC, JP Morgan,
Morgan Stanley, Nomura, Royal Bank of Scotland, Societe Generale, UBS, Wells Fargo.
See International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., 2013 ISDA Operations
Benchmarking Survey 29 (Apr. 2013), available at
https://www2.isda.org/attachment/NTUzOQ==/OBS%202013%20FINAL%200425.pdf.
We use the FIX Trading Community Membership listing to identify dealers that use
FIXML. See Premier Global Members, http://www.fixtradingcommunity.org/pg/grouptypes/sellside-broker-dealers-public (last visited Dec. 8, 2015). We rely on a dealer’s
membership in the FpML Standards Committee as an indication of the dealer’s use of
FpML. See Standards Committee, http://www.fpml.org/committees/standards/ (last
visited Dec. 8, 2015). Because both the FIX Membership listing and FpML Standards
Committee participation are voluntary, our estimates present a lower bound of the
number of major dealers that use either FpML or FIXML.

41

lower cost than reporting participants that use a standard other than FpML or FIXML. Second,
the potential inefficiencies may be muted if there are multiple SDRs that accept SBS data in each
asset class. To the extent that multiple SDRs compete within an asset class, one potential
competitive outcome is that one or more SDRs may strive to attract business from reporting
participants by exploiting the scale economies associated with implementation and offering to
accept data in whatever formats they currently accept from reporting participants and
reformatting this data to conform to the common data model. In the case of a registered SDR that
chooses to levy a fee for reformatting SBS data to conform to one of the schemas, competition
between SDRs may limit the fees an SDR has the ability to charge.
Taken together, scale economies for implementation and competition among SDRs might
compel all SDRs to permit reporting participants to submit SBS data to SDRs using a variety of
formats, thereby eliminating the inefficiencies associated with modification of systems by
reporting parties.
Finally, participants that report infrequently or do not use FpML or FIXML could reduce
their burden by engaging with third-party entities to carry out reporting duties incurred under
Regulation SBSR as well as satisfy data formatting requirements specified by registered SDRs. 81
Third-party entities may offer reporting services if they are able to make SBS data available in a
form and manner consistent with the schemas at a lower cost than SDRs and SDR participants.
Such a cost advantage might arise if a third-party entity uses FpML or FIXML to process SBS
data as part of its existing business activities and has acquired technical expertise in using FpML
81

The Commission acknowledged in Regulation SBSR that reporting requirements could
present a barrier to entry for smaller firms but noted that firms that are reluctant to
acquire and build reporting infrastructure could engage with third-party service providers
to carry out reporting duties under Regulation SBSR. See Regulation SBSR Adopting
Release, 80 FR at 14702.

42

or FIXML. Further, the availability of third-party entities that can convert SBS data to meet
formatting requirements specified by registered SDRs may place an upper limit on the fees
levied by SDRs to reformat data to conform to a Commission schema.
2.

Costs of extending and updating standards

At present, FpML and FIXML do not have a complete set of defined reporting elements
that address all Regulation SBSR reporting requirements. Market participants may choose to
extend these standards to fully reflect Regulation SBSR reporting requirements through the
industry bodies that maintain FpML and FIXML (working groups). 82 As discussed earlier, both
standards undergo regular updates.
While the Commission acknowledges the costs of extending and updating these
standards, these are indirect costs, in that they are not costs required to be incurred by the
proposed amendment, but costs that may be incurred voluntarily by industry bodies. Further, the
Commission preliminarily believes that extension costs would be modest. An analysis
82

The FIX Protocol is updated by actions of its Global Technical Committee via a formal
process in which working groups formulate a gap analysis and technical proposal. The
gap analysis and proposal documents are posted on the FIX web site and accessible to the
public prior to Global Technical Committee review. Approved proposals are published
to the technical specification page as an “extension” or “errata/service” release,
depending on their scope. Extensions to the FIX protocol apply to both FIX’s native
format and FIXML. See FIX Protocol, Limited, FPL Technical Gap Analysis Approval
Process (Jan. 20, 2006), available at
http://www.fixtradingcommunity.org/pg/file/fplpo/read/1437402/gap-analysisspecification-proposal-process.
FpML is updated by actions of its Standards Committee via a formal process in which
working groups produce documents that define extensions or other technical matters
which must proceed through stages as working drafts, last call working drafts, trial
recommendations and recommendations. Extensions to FpML that reach trial
recommendation status are assigned an incremented version number, so that the latest
recommendation may be FpML 5.7 while the trial recommendation is FpML 5.8. All
public specifications are published on the FpML web site. See FpML Standards
Committee, Standards Approval Process – Version 2.1 – June 2009, available at
http://www.fpml.org/asset/49a6b038/7545553a.pdf.

43

undertaken by Commission staff suggests that each standard currently has the defined reporting
elements required to capture almost all of the data elements contemplated by Regulation SBSR. 83
The Commission also preliminarily believes that the update costs would be limited because any
update needed to support possible future changes in Regulation SBSR reporting requirements
would likely be implemented as part of the routine updates undertaken by the working groups.
The Commission reviewed the time taken to revise both FpML and FIXML and estimated that a
revision requires on average 304 days. 84 A working group is estimated to be 29-member strong
based on the size of the working group charged with revising FpML to define data elements to be
used for reporting OTC derivative positions between market participants and to regulators. 85 The
Commission assumes that the one-time extension and a periodic update of each standard will
require only a fraction of the time required for a revision of a standard, with an extension
requiring more time than a periodic update. Thus, the one-time cost of extending each standard is
estimated to be $1,410,560 for a total cost of $2,821,120 for both standards, while the cost of a
periodic update to one standard is estimated to be $282,112 for a total cost of $564,224 for both

83

See Section II.C and Appendix.

84

Using the release dates for versions 4.1 through 5.7 of FpML, we estimate the average
time taken to update each version to be 154 days. Using the release dates for versions 4.0
through 5.0 of FIXML, we estimate the average update time to be 454 days. We take the
average of these two estimates to arrive at the final estimate of 304 days. The
Commission preliminarily believes that these estimates are upper bounds on the time
required to make extensions as a result of the proposed amendment because they
represent an average of major and minor changes and because these changes likely
represent a mix of changes in response to market practice and changes in response to
regulatory requirements.

85

See Section III.A.3 of this release. See also FpML, Regulatory Reporting Working
Group, http://www.fpml.org/wgroup/rptwg/ (last visited Dec. 8, 2015).

44

standards. 86 The Commission preliminarily believes that, while these costs would be directly
incurred by working group members, they would likely be passed through to market participants,
potentially in the form of higher transactions costs.
3.

Limiting formatting flexibility of SDRs

In the SDR Adopting Release, the Commission required SDRs to provide direct
electronic access, but did not specify the form and manner of the direct electronic access. As the
Commission noted in the SDR Adopting Release, until such time as the Commission adopts
specific formats and taxonomies, “SDRs may provide direct electronic access to the Commission
to data in the form in which the SDRs maintain such data.” 87 The proposed amendment, by
specifying the form and manner of direct electronic access, potentially curtails the flexibility in
formatting choices that SDRs enjoy in the absence of the proposed amendment. The Commission
is aware that such curtailment potentially represents a cost of the proposed amendment, but does
not believe it can quantify this cost with any degree of precision as it depends on the different
means by which each SDR could potentially make data available to the Commission
electronically in the absence of the proposed amendment.
Additionally, the proposed amendment could entail costs if FpML and FIXML no longer
reflect SBS market conventions. As the SBS market evolves, FpML and FIXML may cease to
86

Because members of a working group are professionals from various organizations, we
treat each member as an outside professional for this analysis and use a $400 per hour
cost. We assume an eight hour work day for each member of the working group. For the
one-time extension of a standard, we assume a workload of 5% of each working group
member’s work day. Given these assumptions, the cost of extending one standard = 304
x 29 x 8 x 400 x 0.05 = $1,410,560. The cost of extending both standards is = 1,410,560
x 2 = $2,821,120. For the periodic update of a standard, we assume a workload of 1% of
each working group member’s work day due to the incremental and limited nature of a
periodic update. Thus, the cost of a periodic update to one standard = 304 x 29 x 8 x 400
x 0.01 = $282,112, and the cost for both standards is = 282,112 x 2 = $564,224.

87

See SDR Adopting Release, 80 FR at 14475.

45

reflect SBS market practices or products. If more efficient standards other than FpML or FIXML
emerge, the proposed amendment would not permit SDRs to take advantage of those standards in
providing direct electronic access to the Commission, though the proposed amendment would
not preclude SDRs from using those standards for other purposes. The magnitude of this
economic effect is difficult to estimate as we would require information about future SBS market
practices and products, as well as efficiency improvements in currently existing and new
formatting standards. Moreover, the Commission preliminarily believes that potential reductions
in future flexibility will be limited for a number of reasons. First, as previously discussed in
Section II.A, representatives from the financial industry, including those in the SBS market, are
involved in maintaining, developing, and updating FpML and FIXML to support, among other
things, market practices and regulatory reporting requirements. Periodic updating reduces the
likelihood that FpML and FIXML will fail to reflect changes to SBS market practices or
products. Further, the Commission preliminarily believes that industry involvement and periodic
updating make it less likely that a more efficient alternative to FpML or FIXML will emerge.
Second, by specifying schemas based on both FpML and FIXML, the proposed amendment
provides redundancy in case one standard falls into disuse and no longer reflects SBS market
practices or products.
D.

Competition among SDRs

The Commission is also sensitive to the effects on competition among SDRs that might
arise as a result of the proposed amendment. The Commission preliminarily believes that the
impact of the proposed amendment is likely to be limited. The Commission views the effect of
the proposed amendment as further specifying the form and manner of data already required to
be made available to the Commission under Rule 13n-4(b)(5). The Commission understands that
the implementation costs associated with meeting minimum requirements for form and manner
46

under the proposed amendment could represent a barrier to entry for entrants into the SDR
industry that, in the absence of the proposed amendment, would choose to make data available to
the Commission in a lower cost form and manner.
To the extent that the proposed amendment deters new firms from entering the SDR
industry, competition between SDRs could be reduced. A less competitive SDR industry could
see incumbent registered SDRs increasing fees charged to reporting participants, reducing the
quantity and quality of services provided to reporting participants, or both. Further, a less
competitive SDR industry could make it easier for incumbent registered SDRs to shift a bigger
portion of their implementation cost to reporting participants. As noted above, such a shift could
represent an inefficient allocation of implementation costs if it results in duplicative investment
in software and systems by a large number of reporting parties to conform data to the schemas. 88
The Commission preliminarily believes that any deleterious effect on competition that
results from the proposed amendment might be limited for a number of reasons. First, because
the Commission is selecting the FpML and FIXML standards which are widely available to the
public at no cost, new entrants would not incur any cost associated with the creation of new
standards. Second, should extension and updating costs be necessary, such costs are expected to
be modest and would likely be shared among various market participants, including SDRs.
Thus, the actual portion of these costs incurred by a new entrant would be limited.
E.

Alternative Approaches

The Commission has considered two alternatives to the approach contemplated in the
proposed amendment. In this section, we discuss each alternative in turn and the reasons why
each alternative approach was not proposed.
88

See Section III.C.1 of this release.

47

1.

Developing a new standard

The first alternative would involve development of a new information formatting
standard specifically designed to support regulatory reporting of SBS data. The Commission
could implement this alternative in one of two ways. First, the Commission could develop a new
standard on its own and require SDRs to use this standard. The key advantage of such an
approach is that it would give the Commission the ability to tailor definitions of data elements to
precisely match those in Regulation SBSR. However, this approach suffers from a number of
drawbacks. The Commission would likely expend significant resources to (i) develop an
information formatting standard for SBS data, (ii) stay informed of the various practices of the
SDRs, (iii) provide guidance on the standard’s use, and (iv) update the standard on a regular
basis to incorporate innovations in the SBS market and additional reporting requirements as
determined by future Commission action. Further, under this approach market participants could
incur costs associated with supporting an additional information formatting standard that is not
useful except for purposes of satisfying Title VII requirements.
In the absence of an existing standard for SBS data, it would be appropriate for the
Commission to develop a new standard specifically designed to support regulatory reporting of
SBS data. However, because FpML and FIXML are existing standards that are widely used by
market participants, the Commission preliminarily believes it would be more efficient to
leverage these standards that have been designed with input from market participants, that
communicate information about financial contracts, and that can be updated and maintained with
the assistance of dedicated industry working groups. Further, the Commission preliminarily
believes that the proposed approach reduces the likelihood that SDRs introduce errors to SBS
data in the process of reformatting data structured in FpML or FIXML to conform to a new

48

standard developed specifically for regulatory reporting. Thus, the Commission has not chosen
to develop its own standard in the proposed amendment.
2.

Using FpML or FIXML as the sole schema standard

A second alternative would be to use either FpML or FIXML as the sole schema
standard. The Commission preliminarily believes that using only a single standard would impose
an additional burden on an SDR that currently uses a standard other than the selected standard.
Because FpML and FIXML are both widely used and accepted in the financial industry, it is
possible that some SDRs use FpML while others use FIXML. As noted in the economic
baseline, among the persons that could potentially register as SDRs for security-based swaps,
BSDR LLC, DTCC Data Repository, and ICE are FpML users, while Chicago Mercantile
Exchange, Inc. is a FIXML user. By selecting either FpML or FIXML as the sole standard, the
Commission would be requiring an SDR that did not use the proposed standard to incur costs to
change its policies, procedures, and information systems to accommodate the proposed standard.
In addition, selecting a sole standard could increase the likelihood of introducing errors to SBS
data caused by an SDR that uses the non-permissible standard when reformatting its data to
conform to the selected standard. A greater likelihood of errors could potentially reduce the
quality of SBS data made available to the Commission. Further, allowing both FpML and
FIXML instead of allowing just one of these standards would afford some measure of
redundancy in case one standard falls into disuse (due, for example, to the cessation of industry
support) and no longer reflects current market practices.
F.

Request for Comment

The Commission seeks commenters’ views and suggestions on all aspects of its economic
analysis of the proposed amendment. In particular, the Commission asks commenters to
consider the following questions:
49

•

What additional information sources can the Commission use to calibrate the cost of
setting up and implementing policies, procedures, and information systems to format and
submit SBS transaction data in accordance with the Commission’s schemas?

•

What fraction of reporting participants already use FpML or FIXML to format SBS data?

•

What fraction of reporting participants use proprietary XML representations of SBS?

•

What additional information sources can the Commission use to calibrate (a) the cost of
extending FpML and FIXML and (b) the cost of periodically updating these standards?

•

Are there costs associated with the proposed amendment that the Commission has not
identified? If so, please identify them and if possible, offer ways of estimating these
costs.

IV.

Paperwork Reduction Act
The Commission is required to take into account those provisions of any proposed

amendments that contain “collection of information requirements” within the meaning of the
Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (“PRA”). 89 In this release, the Commission is proposing to
specify the form and manner with which SDRs will be required to make SBS data available to
the Commission under Exchange Act Rule 13n-4(b)(5). Specifically, the Commission is
proposing to amend Rule 13n-4(a)(5) to require SDRs to provide direct electronic access using
either the FpML schema or the FIXML schema as published on the Commission’s website. The
Commission is also requiring that the SDRs use the most recent schema published on the
website, as the Commission may make periodic updates to reflect changes in the FpML and
FIXML standards or changes in industry practice.

89

44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.

50

As is discussed in greater detail below, the Commission preliminarily believes that the
proposed amendments to Rule 13n-4(a)(5) would result in a collection of information burden.
To the extent that this collection of information burden has not already been accounted for in the
adoption of the SDR Adopting Release and Regulation SBSR, 90 such burden is discussed below.
The purpose of the proposed amendments to Rule 13n-4(a)(5) is to specify the form and manner
with which SDRs would be required to make SBS data available to the Commission. By doing
so, the Commission seeks to ensure that the SBS data made available by SDRs are formatted
and structured consistently so that the Commission can accurately analyze the data maintained
by a single SDR, and so that the Commission can also aggregate and analyze data maintained by
multiple SDRs. Collection of the underlying data, however, is already covered by existing
collections.
The Commission’s SDR Rules (OMB Control Number 3235-0719) consist of Rules
13n-1 to 13n-12 under the Exchange Act governing SDRs, and a new form, Form SDR, for
registration as a security-based swap data repository. Among other things, Rule 13n-4(b) sets
forth requirements for collecting and maintaining transaction data that each SDR will be required
to follow. The SDR Adopting Release described the relevant burdens and costs that complying
with Rule 13n-4(b), as well as the other companion rules, will entail. The Commission estimated
that the one-time start-up burden relating to establishing the systems necessary to comply to the
SDR Rules (including Rule 13n-4(b)) would be 42,000 hours and $10 million in information
technology costs for each SDR, for a total one-time start-up burden of 420,000 hours and $100

90

See SDR Adopting Release, 80 FR 14437; Regulation SBSR Adopting Release, 80 FR
14673.

51

million. 91 The Commission further estimated that the average ongoing annual burden of these
systems would be 25,200 hours and $6 million per SDR, for a total annual ongoing annual
burden of 252,000 hours and $60 million. 92 The Commission preliminarily believes that there
would be additional burdens on top of those already discussed in connection with the SDR Rules
as a result of the proposed amendments. The Commission is submitting the collection of
information to the Office of Management and Budget for review in accordance with 44 U.S.C.
3507 and 5 CFR 1320.11. The title of the collection of information the Commission is proposing
to amend is “Form SDR and Security-Based Swap Data Repository Registration, Duties, and
Core Principles.” An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to
respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.
Regulation SBSR (OMB Control No. 3235-0718), among other things, sets forth the
primary and secondary SBS trade information that must be reported to a registered SDR and,
with some exceptions, disseminated by a registered SDR to the public. The burdens associated
with the reporting and dissemination of SBS trade information are discussed in Regulation
SBSR. These burdens include those related to a registered SDR to time-stamping information
that it receives, assigning a unique transaction ID to each security-based swap it receives (or
establishing or endorsing a methodology for transaction IDs to be assigned by third parties),
disseminating transaction reports related to SBSs, issuing notifications regarding closing hours
and system availability, establishing protocols for correcting errors in SBS information,
obtaining UICs as necessary, establishing and maintaining compliance with certain policies and
procedures, and registering as a securities information processor. In this release, the
91

See 80 FR at 14523.

92

Id.

52

Commission has not proposed changes to the information that must be reported to a registered
SDR or the information that must be disseminated by a registered SDR to the public. The
Commission therefore preliminarily believes that there would be no additional burden beyond
those already discussed in connection with Regulation SBSR.
The Commission believes, as is discussed in greater detail above in Section II.A., that the
participants in the SBS market generally already employ two industry standard formats: FpML
and FIXML. The Commission expects, but Regulation SBSR does not require, that registered
SDRs will accept SBS trade information in one or both of these industry standard formats. In
preparation for compliance with Regulation SBSR and the SDR Adopting Release, the
Commission expects that registered SDRs will have established systems capable of collecting –
and indeed likely have already collected SBS trade information – in one of these two industry
standards formats. However, the Commission does acknowledge that, as a result of the proposed
amendment, SDRs may incur burdens associated with implementing policies, procedures, and
information systems to ensure that SBS data made available to the Commission is in the form
and manner that satisfies the requirements laid out in the schema.
A.

Summary of Collection of Information

Rule 13n-4(b)(5) requires SDRs to provide direct electronic access to the Commission or
its designees. Rule 13n-4(a)(5), as proposed to be amended, requires “direct electronic access”
to be made using “the most recent version of either the FpML schema or the FIXML schema for
security-based swap data repositories as published on the Commission’s website.” The proposed
amendments do not alter or amend the information that must be collected and maintained by a
registered SDR, but do impact the manner in which such information is made available to the
Commission.

53

B.

Use of Information

Rules 13n-4(b)(5) requires that an SDR provide the Commission, or any designee of the
Commission, with direct electronic access. The information made available to the Commission,
or its designee, will help ensure an orderly and transparent SBS market as well as provide the
Commission with tools to help oversee this market.
C.

Respondents

The direct electronic access requirements of Rule 13n-4(b)(5) apply to all SDRs, absent
an exemption. Thus, for these provisions, the Commission continues to estimate that there will
be 10 respondents.
D.

Total Initial and Annual Reporting and Recordkeeping Burden

As discussed above, Rule 13n-5(b)(5) requires SDRs to provide direct electronic access
to the Commission or its designees. Rule 13n-4(a)(5), as proposed to be amended, would require
“direct electronic access” to be made available to the Commission using “the most recent version
of either the FpML schema or the FIXML schema for security-based swap data repositories as
published on the Commission’s website.”
The Commission preliminarily believes that registered SDRs are likely to already accept
transaction data from reporting persons who submit trade information using FpML and FIXML
reporting standards. However, the Commission preliminarily believes that, as a result of the
proposed amendment, registered SDRs may incur certain burdens associated with implementing
policies, procedures, and information systems to ensure that SBS data made available to the
Commission is in a form and manner that satisfies the requirements laid out in the schemas. The
Commission preliminarily believes that these incremental burdens are likely to be related to
ensuring that the data elements that constitute the common data model are represented using the
appropriate FIXML or FpML reporting elements and are likely to be smaller for those SDRs that
54

already employ FIXML or FpML. The Commission preliminarily estimates that each registered
SDR will incur an initial, one-time burden of 472.5 hours, 93 for an aggregate one-time burden of
4,725 hour for all registered SDRs. 94 The Commission expects that each SDR will comply with
the proposed rule by first comparing the data model it currently employs to the common data
model represented by the schemas and subsequently making necessary modifications to
information technology systems and policies and procedures.
Once the policies, procedures, and information systems required to comply with the
proposed amendment are in place, the Commission preliminarily does not believe that there will
be any additional paperwork burden placed upon SDRs to make transaction records accessible in
a form and manner that satisfies the requirements of the schemas. The Commission
preliminarily believes that the burdens related to SDRs using their policies, procedures, and
information systems they would have already established have been accounted for in the
previously adopted SDR Rules. Furthermore, the Commission preliminarily believes that the
annual burdens associated with maintaining the SDRs policies and procedures, as well as the
annual burdens associated with modifications of information technology systems have already
been accounted for in the previously approved SDR Rules.
93

The Commission preliminarily estimates that an SDR will assign responsibilities for
modifications of information technology systems to an Attorney, a Compliance Manager,
a Programmer Analyst and a Senior Business Analyst and responsibilities for policies and
procedures to an Attorney, a Compliance Manager, a Senior Systems Analyst and an
Operations Specialist. The Commission estimates the burden of modifying information
technology systems to be as follows: 70 hours (Attorney) + 80 hours (Compliance
Manager + 200 hours (Programmer Analyst) + 70 hours (Senior Business Analyst) = 420
burden hours. The Commission estimates the burden of modifying policies and
procedures to be as follows: 21.75 hours (Attorney) + 19.25 (Compliance Manager) +
5.75 hours (Senior Systems Analyst) + 5.75 hours (Operations Specialist) = 52.5 burden
hours.

94

The aggregate burden is calculated as follows: (420 hours + 52.5 hours) x 10 registered
SDRs = 4,725 burden hours

55

E.

Collection of Information is Mandatory

The collection of information relating to direct electronic access is mandatory for all
SDRs, absent an exemption.
F.

Confidentiality

Because these proposed amendments do not impact the scope or nature of the information
required to be made available to the Commission, the Commission does not expect to receive
confidential information as a result of these proposed amendments. However, to the extent that
the Commission does receive confidential information pursuant to this collection of information,
such information will be kept confidential, subject to the provisions of applicable law.
G.

Recordkeeping Requirements

Rule 13n-7(b) under the Exchange Act requires an SDR to keep and preserve at least one
copy of all documents, including all documents and policies and procedures required by the
Exchange Act and the rules or regulations thereunder, correspondence, memoranda, papers,
books, notices, accounts, and other such records as shall be made or received by it in the course
of its business as such, for a period of not less than five years, the first two years in a place that is
immediately available to representatives of the Commission for inspection and examination.
This requirement encompasses any documents and policies and procedures established as a result
of the proposed amendments.
H.

Request for Comments

Pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 3505(c)(2)(B), the Commission solicits comment to:
•

Evaluate whether the proposed collection of information is necessary for the proper
performance of our functions, including whether the information will have practical
utility;

56

•

Evaluate the accuracy of our estimate of the burden of the proposed collection of
information;

•

Determine whether there are ways to enhance the quality, utility, and clarity of the
information to be collected; and

•

Evaluate whether there are ways to minimize the burden of collection of information on
those who are to respond, including through the use of automated collection techniques or
other forms of information technology.

Persons submitting comments on the collection of information requirements should direct them
to the Office of Management and Budget, Attention: Desk Officer for the Securities and
Exchange Commission, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Washington, DC 20503,
and should also send a copy of their comments to Brent J. Fields, Secretary, Securities and
Exchange Commission, 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549-1090, with reference to File
Number S7-26-15. Requests for materials submitted to OMB by the Commission with regard to
this collection of information should be in writing, with reference to File Number S7-26-15 and
be submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission, Office of FOIA/PA Operations, 100 F
Street NE., Washington, DC 20549-2736. As OMB is required to make a decision concerning
the collections of information between 30 and 60 days after publication, a comment to OMB is
best assured of having its full effect if OMB receives it within 30 days of publication.
V.

Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification
Section 3(a) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (“RFA”) 95 requires the

Commission to undertake an initial regulatory flexibility analysis of the proposed amendment on

95

5 U.S.C. 603(a).

57

“small entities.” Section 605(b) of the RFA 96 provides that this requirement shall not apply to
any proposed rule or proposed rule amendment which, if adopted, would not have a significant
economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 605(b), the
Commission hereby certifies that the proposed amendment to Rule 13n-4(a)(5) would not, if
adopted, have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. In
developing this proposed amendment the Commission has considered its potential impact on
small entities. For purposes of Commission rulemaking in connection with the RFA, a small
entity includes: (1) when used with reference to an “issuer” or a “person,” other than an
investment company, an “issuer” or “person” that, on the last day of its most recent fiscal year,
had total assets of $5 million or less; 97 or (2) a broker-dealer with total capital (net worth plus
subordinated liabilities) of less than $500,000 on the date in the prior fiscal year as of which its
audited financial statements were prepared pursuant to Rule 17a-5(d) under the Exchange Act, 98
or, if not required to file such statements, a broker-dealer with total capital (net worth plus
subordinated liabilities) of less than $500,000 on the last day of the preceding fiscal year (or in
the time that it has been in business, if shorter); and is not affiliated with any person (other than a
natural person) that is not a small business or small organization. 99
The Commission believes, based on input from SBS market participants and its own
information, that persons that are likely to register as SDRs would not be small entities. Based
on input from SBS market participants and its own information, the Commission believes that

96

5 U.S.C. 605(b).

97

17 CFR 240.0-10(a).

98

17 CFR 240.17a-5(d).

99

17 CFR 240.0-10(c).

58

most if not all registered SDRs would be part of large business entities, and that all registered
SDRs would have assets exceeding $5 million and total capital exceeding $500,000.
The Commission encourages written comments regarding this certification. The
Commission solicits comment as to whether the proposed amendment to Rule 13n-4(a)(5) could
have an effect on small entities that has not been considered. The Commission requests that
commenters describe the nature of any impact on small entities and provide empirical data to
support the extent of such impact.
VI.

Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act
For purposes of the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996

(“SBREFA) 100 the Commission must advise the OMB whether the proposed regulation
constitutes a “major” rule. Under SBREFA, a rule is considered “major” where, if adopted, it
results or is likely to result in: (1) an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more;
(2) a major increase in costs or prices for consumers or individual industries; or (3) significant
adverse effect on competition, investment or innovation.
The Commission requests comment on the potential impact of the proposed amendment
on the economy on an annual basis. Commenters are requested to provide empirical data and
other factual support for their views to the extent possible.
VII.

Statutory Authority
Pursuant to the Exchange Act, and particularly Sections 13(n) and 23(a) thereof, 15

U.S.C. 78m(n) and 78w(a), the Commission is proposing to amend rule 13n-4(a)(5), under the
Exchange Act.

100

Pub. L. No. 104-121, Title II, 110 Stat. 857 (1996) (codified in various sections of
5 U.S.C. and 15 U.S.C. and as a note to 5 U.S.C. 601).

59

List of Subjects
17 CFR Part 240
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

Text of Proposed amendment
For the reasons stated in the preamble, the SEC is proposing to amend Title 17, Chapter
II of the Code of the Federal Regulations as follows:
PART 240—GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934
1. The general authority citation for part 240 continues to read as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77c, 77d, 77g, 77j, 77s, 77z–2, 77z–3, 77eee, 77ggg, 77nnn, 77sss,
77ttt, 78c, 78c–3, 78c–5, 78d, 78e, 78f, 78g, 78i, 78j, 78j–1, 78k, 78k–1, 78l, 78m, 78n, 78n–1,
78o, 78o–4, 78o–10, 78p, 78q, 78q–1, 78s, 78u–5, 78w, 78x, 78ll, 78mm, 80a–20, 80a–23, 80a–
29, 80a–37, 80b–3, 80b–4, 80b–11, 7201 et seq.; and 8302; 7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(E); 12 U.S.C.
5221(e)(3); 18 U.S.C. 1350; and Pub. L. 111–203, 939A, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010), unless otherwise
noted.
*****
2. Amend § 240.13n-4(a)(5) by adding a second sentence to read as follows:
§ 240.13n-4 Duties and core principles of security-based swap data repository.
(a) * * *

60

(5) * * * Direct electronic access must be made available to the Commission using the
most recent version of either the FpML schema or the FIXML schema for security-based swap
data repositories as published on the Commission’s website.
*****

By the Commission.
Dated: December 11, 2015.

Brent J. Fields,
Secretary.

61

APPENDIX: Mapping of common data model concepts to FIXML and FpML data elements
The common data model is informed by the current versions of the FpML and FIXML
standards. Commission staff has mapped concepts in the common data model to existing data
elements in both FpML and FIXML. Table 1 depicts the result of this mapping exercise for
FpML version 5.9, which is considered current for the purposes of this proposal. Table 2 repeats
this exercise for FIX version 5.0, Service Pack 2, which shall be considered current for the
purposes of this proposal.
Table 1: Mapping of common data model data concepts to FpML data elements. When the FpML column includes a list
of terms, this means that FpML expresses the concept as a combination of data elements from that list. Blank entries
mean that the concept does not presently have an exact equivalent in FpML.

§ 901 Ref.
(c)(1)

Common Data Model Concept
Product ID

(c)(1)(i)

Asset Class

(c)(1)(i)
(c)(1)(i)
(c)(1)(i)
(c)(1)(ii)
(c)(1)(iii)
(c)(1)(iv)

Underlying Reference Asset(s)
Underlying Reference Issuer(s)
Underlying Reference Index
Effective Date
Scheduled Termination Date
Terms of any standardized fixed rate
payments

(c)(1)(iv)
(c)(1)(iv)

Frequency of any fixed rate payments
Terms of any standardized floating rate
payments

(c)(1)(iv)
(c)(1)(v)
(c)(2)

Frequency of any floating rate payments
Custom Swap Flag
The date and time, to the second, of
execution, expressed using Coordinated
Universal Time (UTC);
The price

(c)(3)
(c)(3)

The currency in which the price is
expressed
62

FpML Data Elements
productId
primaryAssetClass
secondaryAssetClass
productType
embeddedOptionType
primaryAssetClass
secondaryAssetClass
underlyingAsset
referenceEntity
index
effectiveDate
scheduledTerminationDate
calculationPeriodAmount or
fixedAmountCalculation
paymentDates
calculationPeriodFrequency
calculationPeriodAmount
paymentDates
resetDates
calculationPeriodFrequency
nonStandardTerms
executionDateTime

quote
value
currency

§ 901 Ref.
(c)(3)

Common Data Model Concept
The amount(s) of any up-front payments

(c)(3)
(c)(4)

The currenc(ies) of any up-front payments
The notional amount(s)

(c)(4)

The currenc(ies) in which the notional
amount(s) is expressed
Inter-Dealer Swap Flag
Intention To Clear Flag
If applicable, any flags pertaining to the
transaction that are specified in the policies
and procedures of the registered SDR to
which the transaction will be reported
The counterparty ID [on the reporting side]

(c)(5)
(c)(6)
(c)(7)

(d)(1)
(d)(1)
(d)(1)
(d)(1)
(d)(1)
(d)(1)
(d)(1)

(d)(2)
(d)(2)
(d)(3)

(d)(3)

(d)(3)

The execution agent ID [on the reporting
side], as applicable
The counterparty ID [on the non-reporting
side]
The execution agent ID of each
counterparty, as applicable
[As applicable] the branch ID of the direct
counterparty on the reporting side
[As applicable] the broker ID of the direct
counterparty on the reporting side
[As applicable] the execution agent ID of
the direct counterparty on the reporting
side
[As applicable] the trader ID of the direct
counterparty on the reporting side
[As applicable] the trading desk ID of the
direct counterparty on the reporting side
the terms of any fixed or floating rate
payments, or otherwise customized or nonstandard payment streams
the frequency of any fixed or floating rate
payments, or otherwise customized or nonstandard payment streams
the contingencies of any fixed or floating
rate payments, or otherwise customized or
non-standard payment streams

63

FpML Data Elements
additionalPayment
paymentType
currency
notional
amount
currency

intentToClear

onBehalfOf
partyId
partyId
partyRole
partyId
partyRole
partyId
partyRole
relatedBusinessUnit
role
relatedBusinessUnit
role
relatedBusinessUnit
role
relatedBusinessUnit
role
relatedBusinessUnit
role
genericProduct

paymentFrequency
resetFrequency
feature

§ 901 Ref.
(d)(4)

Common Data Model Concept
title of any master agreement

(d)(4)

the date of any master agreement

(d)(4)

the title of any collateral agreement

(d)(4)

the date of any collateral agreement

(d)(4)
(d)(4)
(d)(4)

the title of any margin agreement
the date of any margin agreement
the title of any other agreement

(d)(4)

the date of any other agreement

(d)(5)

any additional data elements included in
the agreement between the counterparties
that are necessary for a person to determine
the market value of the transaction;
the name of the clearing agency to which
partyId
the security-based swap will be submitted
partyRole
for clearing
whether they have invoked the exception in endUserException
Section 3C(g) of the Exchange Act (15
U.S.C. 78c-3(g));

(d)(6)

(d)(7)

(d)(8)
(d)(8)
(d)(8)
(d)(9)

a description of the settlement terms
whether the security-based swap is cashsettled or physically settled
the method for determining the settlement
value
The platform ID, if applicable

(d)(10)

the transaction ID of an allocated securitybased swap

(d)(10)

the transaction ID of a terminated securitybased swap
the transaction ID of a novated securitybased swap
the transaction ID of an assigned securitybased swap

(d)(10)
(d)(10)

64

FpML Data Elements
masterAgreement
masterAgreementId
masterAgreement
masterAgreementDate
creditSupportAgreement
identifier
creditSupportAgreement
date

contractualTermsSupplement, et al.
identifier
contractualTermsSupplement, et al.
date

cashSettlementTerms
physicalSettlementTerms
valuationMethod
partyId
partyRole
originatingEvent
originatingTradeId
allocationTradeId
terminatingEvent
originatingTradeId
novation
originatingTradeId
novation
originatingTradeId

§ 901 Ref.
(e)(1)(i)

(e)(1)(ii)
(e)(2)

(f)

(g)

Common Data Model Concept
A life cycle event, and any adjustment due
to a life cycle event, that results in a
change to information previously reported
pursuant to paragraph (c), (d), or (i) of this
section shall be reported by the reporting
side [except that the reporting side shall not
report whether or not a security-based
swap has been accepted for clearing]
Acceptance for clearing
All reports of life cycle events and
adjustments due to life cycle events shall,
within the timeframe specified in
paragraph (j) of this section, be reported to
the entity to which the original securitybased swap transaction will be reported or
has been reported and shall include the
transaction ID of the original transaction.
Time stamp, to the second, its receipt of
any information submitted to it pursuant to
paragraph (c), (d), (e), or (i) of this section.
A transaction ID to each security-based
swap, or establish or endorse a
methodology for transaction IDs to be
assigned by third parties.

FpML Data Elements
originatingEvent
trade

originatingTradeId

timestamps
nonpubliclyReported
originatingTradeId

Table 2: Mapping of common data model data concepts to FIXML data elements. When the FIXML column includes a
list of terms, this means that FIXML expresses the concept as a combination of data elements from that list. Blank entries
mean that the concept does not presently have an exact equivalent in FIXML.

§ 901 Ref. Common Data Model Concept
(c)(1)
Product ID

(c)(1)(i)
(c)(1)(i)
(c)(1)(i)
(c)(1)(i)
(c)(1)(ii)
(c)(1)(iii)
(c)(1)(iv)

Asset Class
Underlying Reference Asset(s)
Underlying Reference Issuer(s)
Underlying Reference Index
Effective Date
Scheduled Termination Date
Terms of any standardized fixed rate
payments
65

FIXML Data Elements
Prod
SecTyp
PxDtrmnMeth
SettlMeth
SwapClss
SwapSubClss
CFI
Undly
Issr
NdxSeries
EfctvDt
TrmntDt
PmtStrm
CalcDts
Rt

§ 901 Ref. Common Data Model Concept

(c)(1)(iv)
(c)(1)(iv)
(c)(1)(iv)
(c)(1)(v)
(c)(2)

(c)(3)
(c)(3)
(c)(3)
(c)(3)
(c)(4)
(c)(4)
(c)(5)
(c)(6)
(c)(7)

(d)(1)

(d)(1)
(d)(1)
(d)(1)

Frequency of any fixed rate payments
Terms of any standardized floating rate
payments
Frequency of any floating rate payments
Custom Swap Flag
The date and time, to the second, of
execution, expressed using Coordinated
Universal Time (UTC);
The price
The currency in which the price is
expressed
The amount(s) of any up-front payments
The currenc(ies) of any up-front
payments
The notional amount(s)
The currenc(ies) in which the notional
amount(s) is expressed
Inter-Dealer Swap Flag
Intention To Clear Flag
If applicable, any flags pertaining to the
transaction that are specified in the
policies and procedures of the registered
security-based swap data repository to
which the transaction will be reported
The counterparty ID [on the reporting
side]

The execution agent ID [on the reporting
side], as applicable
The counterparty ID [on the nonreporting side]
The execution agent ID of each
counterparty, as applicable

66

FIXML Data Elements
Amt
Ccy
PmtDts
ResetDts
PmtDts
TrdRegTS
TS
Typ
Src
Px
Ccy
UpfrontPx

Strm
Notl
Ccy
Pty
Typ
ClrIntn

Pty
ID
Src
R
R
Sub
ID
Typ
R
R
R

§ 901 Ref. Common Data Model Concept
(d)(1)
[As applicable] the branch ID of the
direct counterparty on the reporting side
(d)(1)
[As applicable] the broker ID of the direct
counterparty on the reporting side
(d)(1)
[As applicable] the execution agent ID of
the direct counterparty on the reporting
side
(d)(2)
[As applicable] the trader ID of the direct
counterparty on the reporting side
(d)(2)
[As applicable] the trading desk ID of the
direct counterparty on the reporting side
(d)(3)
the terms of any fixed or floating rate
payments, or otherwise customized or
non-standard payment streams
(d)(3)
the frequency of any fixed or floating rate
payments, or otherwise customized or
non-standard payment streams
(d)(3)
the contingencies of any fixed or floating
rate payments, or otherwise customized
or non-standard payment streams
(d)(4)
title of any master agreement
(d)(4)
(d)(4)
(d)(4)
(d)(4)
(d)(4)
(d)(4)

date of any master agreement
title of any collateral agreement
date of any collateral agreement
title of any margin agreement
date of any margin agreement
title of any any other agreement

(d)(4)
(d)(5)

date of any any other agreement
any additional data elements included in
the agreement between the counterparties
that are necessary for a person to
determine the market value of the
transaction
the name of the clearing agency to which
the security-based swap will be submitted
for clearing
whether they have invoked the exception
in Section 3C(g) of the Exchange Act (15
U.S.C. 78c-3(g))
a description of the settlement terms
whether the security-based swap is cashsettled or physically settled
the method for determining the settlement

(d)(6)

(d)(7)

(d)(8)
(d)(8)

67

FIXML Data Elements
R
R
R

R
R

PmtDts
PmtDts
ContingencyType

FinDetls
AgmtDesc
AgmtDt
CrdSuprtDesc
CrdSuprtDt

CnfmDesc
BrkrCnfmDesc
CnfmDt

R
ID
ClrReqmtExcptn

SettlMeth
SettlNdx

§ 901 Ref. Common Data Model Concept
value
(d)(9)
The platform ID, if applicable

(d)(10)

(d)(10)

(d)(10)

(d)(10)
(e)(1)(i)

(e)(1)(ii)
(e)(2)

(f)

(g)

FIXML Data Elements
SettlNdxLctn
R
ID
Src
the transaction ID of an allocated
AllExc
security-based swap
TransTyp
TrdID
the transaction ID of a terminated
RegTrdID
security-based swap
TrmTyp
TrdID
Novation transaction ID
TrdContntn
TrdContntn
OrigTrdID
Side
the transaction ID of an assigned security- AsgnTyp
based swap
TrdID
A life cycle event, and any adjustment
TrdContntn
due to a life cycle event, that results in a
TrdContntn
change to information previously reported
pursuant to paragraph (c), (d), or (i) of
this section shall be reported by the
reporting side [except that the reporting
side shall not report whether or not a
security-based swap has been accepted
for clearing]
Acceptance for clearing
RskLmitChkStat
All reports of life cycle events and
OrigTrdID
adjustments due to life cycle events shall,
within the timeframe specified in
paragraph (j) of this section, be reported
to the entity to which the original
security-based swap transaction will be
reported or has been reported and shall
include the transaction ID of the original
transaction.
Time stamp, to the second, its receipt of
TrdRegTS
any information submitted to it pursuant
TS
to paragraph (c), (d), (e), or (i) of this
Typ
section.
Src
A transaction ID to each security-based
TrdID
swap, or establish or endorse a
methodology for transaction IDs to be
assigned by third parties.

68

