ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17337
Global HVAC Provider Settles FCPA Charges
July 11, 2016 – The Securities and Exchange Commission today announced that a Wisconsinbased global provider of HVAC systems has agreed to pay more than $14,000,000 to settle
charges that it violated the books and records and internal accounting controls provisions of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA).
An SEC investigation found that a wholly-owned Chinese subsidiary of Johnson Controls used
sham vendors to make improper payments of approximately $4.9 million to employees of
Chinese government owned shipyards, and ship-owners and others, to obtain and retain business
and personally enrich themselves. According to the SEC’s order instituting a settled cease-anddesist proceeding against Johnson Controls:
•

Johnson Controls acquired the Chinese subsidiary as part of a 2005 acquisition of York
International, which was subject to a prior FCPA enforcement action in October 2007, for
conduct in China and other parts of York’s business.

•

Despite JCI’s efforts to remediate China Marine, the bribery continued.

•

From 2007 to 2013, the managing director of China Marine, with the aid of
approximately eighteen China Marine employees in three offices, continued the bribery
and theft that began under his predecessor by using vendors instead of agents to facilitate
the improper payments.

•

Johnson Controls limited the use of agents, and thus the employees used the vendor
scheme to create slush funds. The employees fashioned the improper scheme using
vendors because vendor transactions were considered low risk by JCI due to the low
dollar value of the transactions, with the average vendor payment approximately $3400.

•

Johnson Controls’ internal controls over vendor payments were less rigorous, and China
Marine operated with very little oversight by JCI’s Denmark office, which oversaw the
Global Marine business. Even in the instances where managers in Denmark did a review,
they did not understand some of the highly customized transactions at China Marine or
the projects involving the sham vendors.

•

Johnson Controls self-reported this misconduct to the SEC and cooperated with the
investigation.

The SEC’s order finds that Johnson Controls violated the internal accounting controls and books
and records provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Without admitting or denying
the findings, Johnson Controls agreed to cease-and-desist from committing or causing any
violations of Exchange Act Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B), pay disgorgement of
$11,800,000 plus prejudgment interest of $1,382,561, pay a civil penalty of $1,180,000, and to
report to the SEC for one year on the status of its FCPA and anti-corruption related remediation
and implementation of compliance measures.

The SEC’s investigation was conducted by Irene Gutierrez and Tracy L. Price of the FCPA Unit
and supervised by Kara N. Brockmeyer. The SEC appreciates the assistance of the Justice
Department’s Fraud Section and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
See also:

Order

