UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78603 / August 17, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17400
In the Matter of
DELANEY EQUITY
GROUP LLC
Respondent.

ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
AND CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 15(b) AND 21C
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934, MAKING FINDINGS, AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND
A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted pursuant to Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange
Act”), against Delaney Equity Group LLC (“Delaney” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting
Administrative and Cease-And-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 15(b) and 21C of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a
Cease-And-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds 1 that:
Summary
These proceedings arise out of the failure of Delaney, a registered broker-dealer, to
respond to the Commission’s Division of Enforcement (the “Commission Staff”)’s requests for
information pursuant to Section 17 of the Exchange Act and Rule 17a-4(j) thereunder.
Respondent
1.
Delaney, a Florida limited liability company with its principal place of business in
Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, has been registered as a broker-dealer with the Commission since
May 31, 2007. At all relevant times, Delaney has been subject to all provisions of the Exchange
Act, including Section 17 and the rules thereunder.
Background
2.
On April 9, 2015, the Commission Staff sent Delaney a letter request (the “Letter
Request”) pursuant to Rule 17a-4(j) of the Exchange Act in the course of an investigation. The
Letter Request asked for documents related to, among other things, a former registered
representative and Delaney’s current and former policies and procedures. The Letter Request
expressly stated that Delaney should produce responsive documents on or before April 23, 2015.
After receipt of the Letter Request, Delaney provided it to its counsel. However, Delaney failed to
respond by that date.
3.
On April 28, 2015, five days after the response deadline in the Letter Request, an
attorney for Delaney (“Delaney’s counsel”) emailed the Commission Staff and requested a twoweek extension for Delaney to respond to the Letter Request. The Commission Staff agreed and
set a new deadline of May 12, 2015.
4.
On May 15, 2015, having received no documents by the May 12 deadline, the
Commission Staff contacted Delaney’s counsel to inquire as to the status of Delaney’s
production. Delaney’s counsel responded that he expected production to begin on May 18, 2015.
5.
On May 27, 2015, having still received no production, the Commission Staff
emailed Delaney’s counsel to request complete and immediate production in response to the
Letter Request. On June 1, 2015, Delaney’s counsel responded to the Commission Staff’s May
27 email: “[Delaney’s principal] went to the warehouse this weekend to look for documents. I

1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.

2

will follow up with him this morning.” Delaney’s counsel indicated that Delaney had otherwise
already reviewed “on site” files.
6.
On June 15, 2015, having received no further response since June 1, the
Commission Staff again sent an email to Delaney’s counsel inquiring about the status and asking
for a telephone call on June 17 to discuss the matter. Delaney’s counsel did not respond to that
email.
7.
On June 29, 2015, having still received no production to the Letter Request, the
Commission Staff served a subpoena on Delaney care of Delaney’s counsel by email and UPS
(the “Subpoena”). The Subpoena requested virtually the same documents as the Letter Request.
The Subpoena specified that the response thereto was due on or before July 13, 2015.
8.
On July 15, 2015, having received no production or other response to the Letter
Request or Subpoena, the Commission Staff requested that Delaney’s counsel immediately
contact the Commission Staff. Delaney’s counsel responded by email: “I will interact with you
and my client tomorrow as my top priority.”
9.
On July 17, 2015, after receiving no contact from Delaney’s counsel on July 16 as
promised, the Commission Staff requested full production pursuant to the Letter Request and
Subpoena on or before July 22, 2015.
10.
On July 23, 2015, having received no production by the extended July 22
deadline, the Commission Staff requested that Delaney’s counsel confirm whether Delaney’s
response had been submitted. Delaney’s counsel responded: “I am writing it now.” The
Commission Staff then asked for confirmation once the production was submitted.
11.
On July 24, 2015, having not been informed of any submission, the Commission
Staff requested that Delaney’s counsel immediately provide an estimated time for the submission
of Delaney’s complete response to the Letter Request and Subpoena. Delaney’s counsel did not
respond to that email.
12.
On August 10, 2015, the Commission Staff sent a letter to Delaney’s counsel
which set forth the above chronology of events, stated that Delaney was in violation of both the
Letter Request and Subpoena and the books-and-records provisions of the Exchange Act, and
requested full production by August 17, 2015. The Commission Staff received no response to
the August 10 letter.
13.
The documents Delaney failed to produce were records it was required to furnish
to the Commission pursuant to Exchange Act Section 17(a)(1), Exchange Act Rule 17a-4(j), or
both.
14.
Due to Delaney’s failure to produce the documents requested by the Commission
staff, on October 6, 2015, the Commission brought suit against Delaney in the United States
District Court for the Southern District of Florida, seeking a temporary restraining order,
3

preliminary injunction, and permanent injunction, among other relief. On October 7, 2015, the
District Judge entered an Order Granting in Part a Temporary Restraining Order against Delaney.
Upon learning of the suit, Delaney retained other counsel and provided the documents requested by
the Commission staff.
Violations
15.
As a result of the conduct described above, Delaney willfully violated Section
17(a)(1) of the Exchange Act, which requires a registered broker-dealer to furnish copies of
records that the Commission has through Exchange Act Rule 17a-4 prescribed as necessary or
appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of
the purposes of the Exchange Act.
16.
As a result of the conduct described above, Delaney willfully violated Exchange
Act Rule 17a-4(j), which requires a registered broker-dealer to furnish promptly to a
representative of the Commission legible, true, complete, and current copies of those records of
Delaney that were required to be preserved under Rule 17a-4 or any other records of Delaney
subject to examination under Exchange Act Section 17(b) that are requested by the
representative of the Commission.

IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate, and in the public interest,
to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Delaney’s Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Exchange Act, it is hereby
ORDERED that:
A.

Respondent Delaney is censured.

B.
Respondent Delaney cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and
any future violations of Section 17(a)(1) of the Exchange Act, and Exchange Act Rule 17a-4(j).
C.
Respondent Delaney shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil
money penalty in the amount of $20,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer
to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If
timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717.
Payment must be made in one of the following ways:
(1)

Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which
will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

4

(2)

Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
Delaney as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of
the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Glenn S. Gordon, Associate Regional
Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 801 Brickell Ave., Suite
1800, Miami, FL 33131.
D.
Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor
Action, it shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor shall it benefit by, offset or reduction of any
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil
penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset"). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a
Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that it shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting
the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the
Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall not be deemed
an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty
imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action" means a
private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based
on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this
proceeding.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

5

