UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-12540

In the Matter of
FRED ALGER
MANAGEMENT, INC. AND
FRED ALGER & COMPANY
INCORPORATED,
Respondents.

1

:
:
:
:
PROPOSED PLAN OF DISTRIBUTION
:
:
:
:
:

Introduction
1.1

This Distribution Plan (“Distribution Plan”) sets forth the methodology for allocating
the distribution fund (“Fair Fund”) established by the Commission in this proceeding.
The Distribution Plan seeks to distribute to accountholders, a proportionate share of
the Fair Fund as compensation for dilution losses they may have suffered as a result of
market timing and late trading during the period spanning September 12, 2001 through
October 15, 2003, in the Alger Fund portfolios and a proportionate share of the
advisory fees paid during the relevant period. 1 The Fair Fund is not intended to
compensate accountholders for losses they incurred solely because of fluctuations in
securities markets. The Distribution Plan is subject to approval by the Commission,
and the Commission retains jurisdiction over the implementation of the Distribution
Plan.

2 The Engagement
2.1

1

On January 18, 2007, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission” or
“SEC”) issued an Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings,
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order
Pursuant to Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sections

Beginning in February 2004, the name of the Alger Fund was changed to “The Alger Funds”. For simplicity,
and to be consistent with the SEC Order, this Proposed Plan of Distribution will refer to the Alger Fund and
individual Alger mutual funds as portfolios.

Page 1

203(e) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and Sections 9(b) and 9(f)
of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“ Alger Order”) finding that, from
September 12, 2001 through October 15, 2003, certain accountholders in the Alger
Fund engaged in frequent trading of the Alger Fund portfolios contrary to restrictions
placed on the annual number of permissible exchanges out of the Alger Fund
portfolios as described in the Statement of Additional Information (“SAI”) attached to
the Alger Funds’ prospectuses. 2 In particular, the Alger Order found that Fred Alger
Management, Inc. (“Alger Management”) willfully violated, and Fred Alger &
Company, Incorporated (“Alger Inc.”) willfully aided and abetted and caused Alger
Management’s violations of Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act. Alger
willfully violated Section 17(d) of the Investment Company Act and Rule 17d-1. Alger
Management willfully violated 34(b) of the Investment Company Act. Alger Inc.
willfully violated Section 15(c) of the Exchange Act and willfully violated Rule 22c-1
as adopted under Section 22(c) of the Investment Company Act. None of the
Respondents admitted or denied any of the Commission’s findings in the Alger Order.

2

3
4

2.2

The Alger Order required Alger Management and Alger Inc. (collectively “Alger” or
the “Respondents”), investment advisers to the Alger Fund during the period
September 12, 2001 through October 15, 2003, to pay disgorgement of $30 million
and a civil penalty of $10 million and to establish a Fair Fund 3 in the total amount of
$40 million pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for the
distribution of disgorgement and penalties paid by the Respondent. Pursuant to the
Alger Order, Respondents paid a total of $40 million within 30 days of the entry of the
Order. This amount is currently being held by the United States Departmentof the
Treasury’s (“U.S. Treasury”) Bureau of the Fiscal Service (“BFS”), and earning
interest through investment in short-term U.S. Treasury securities. As of January 31,
2013, the Fair Fund had an approximate value of $40.17 million.

2.3

The Alger Order required Respondents to retain an Independent Distribution
Consultant (“IDC”) to develop a Plan of Distribution of the Fair Fund according to a
methodology developed in consultation with the Respondents and acceptable to the
staff of the Commission and the independent Trustees of the Alger Fund. Pursuant to
the Alger Order, Respondent retained James C. Meehan, Vice President and head of
the New York office of Cornerstone Research 4, as the IDC to develop a Distribution
Plan for the distribution of the Fair Fund according to a methodology developed in
consultation with Alger and acceptable to the staff of the Commission and the
independent Trustees of the affected Alger Fund portfolios.

In the Matter of Fred Alger Management, Inc. and Fred Alger & Company, Incorporated, Admin. Proc. File
No. 3-12540 (January 18, 2007).
Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002.
Mr. Meehan has analyzed issues relating to materiality, loss causation, and damages on a variety of securities
class actions and other commercial litigation. He holds a Bachelor of Science in Mathematics from the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a Master of Science in Management from the MIT Sloan School of
Management.

Page 2

2.4

3

4

It is the view of the IDC that the methodology described herein constitutes a fair and
reasonable allocation of the Fair Fund.

Representations by the IDC
3.1

The IDC has received full cooperation from the Respondents, including access to data
and individuals as requested.

3.2

Several people at Cornerstone Research have assisted the IDC in developing this
Distribution Plan; all work in this matter has been done under the IDC’s direction.

3.3

The IDC has never been employed by Alger. Under the terms of the Alger Order, the
IDC agrees that, for the period of this engagement and for a period of two years from
completion of this engagement, he will not enter into any employment, consultant, or
other professional relationship with Alger or “any of their present or former affiliates,
directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity as such.”

3.4

Pursuant to the terms of the Alger Order, Cornerstone Research and/or its
representatives set forth above will not, without prior written consent of the
independent Trustees of the Alger Fund and the staff of the Commission, enter into
any employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional
relationship with Alger, or any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers,
employees, or agents acting in their capacity as such for the period of this engagement
and for a period of two years after this engagement.

3.5

The conclusions the IDC has reached in this matter should be viewed as specific to this
engagement and to the facts of this case, and may not apply elsewhere.

Background
4.1

Accountholders purchased shares in the Alger Fund portfolios through one of three
distribution channels. Each distribution channel presents unique challenges to the
Distribution Plan, and the manner of distribution to each channel is described herein.
4.1.1

Direct Purchase Holders – Certain purchasers bought their shares directly
through the distributor for the Alger Fund by submitting an application with
payment to either a third party transfer agent or to an Alger affiliated servicing
company.

4.1.2

Holders in Omnibus Accounts – Other purchasers bought their shares through
brokerage firms that functioned as the accountholder of record. Under this
structure, the brokerage firm provided to the transfer agent, on a daily basis,
customer transaction data concerning the number of shares purchased and sold

Page 3

by all customers on an aggregate basis. Specific information, such as a Tax
Identification Number for each customer or account, was not provided.
4.1.3

4.2

5

Holders in Network Accounts – Other purchasers bought their shares through
brokerage firms that, for each account, provided to the transfer agent a unique
identifier and information concerning the number of shares each unique
identifier purchased or sold. Specific information, such as a name and address,
was not provided.

The IDC sets forth below the methodology used to develop the Distribution Plan for
calculating and distributing the Fair Fund to accountholders in the Alger Fund
portfolios during the relevant times.

Methodology Used to Develop Distribution Plan
5.1

The Order requires the Distribution Plan to “provide for investors in the Alger Fund
portfolios during the period from September 12, 2001 to October 15, 2003 to receive,
from the monies available for distribution, in order of priority, (i) proportionate share
of losses suffered by Alger Fund portfolios due to market timing and late trading, and
(ii) a proportionate share of advisory fees paid by Alger Fund portfolios that suffered
such losses during the period of such market timing and late trading.” 5 This
Distribution Plan relies on the findings in the Order and the assumptions set forth
above, and makes no independent assessment as to the legality of the market timing in
the Alger Fund portfolios. The methods of calculation of each eligible investor’s
share of the Fair Fund are intended to result in a payment to each eligible investor that
restores the impaired value of the investor’s investment in the harmed portfolios
resulting from the Respondents’ conduct described in the Order. Some of this
impaired value is susceptible to calculation, while some of this impaired value is not.
In particular and as discussed in more detail below, the data limitations regarding
omnibus account holder transactions prevent a complete estimation of the impaired
value that each underlying investor has suffered. Also, the Fair Fund is not intended to
compensate investors for losses they incurred because of fluctuations in securities
markets that were unrelated to Respondents’ conduct, as set forth in the Order.

5.2

The Distribution Plan is designed to allocate the Fair Fund among accountholders who
held shares in the Balanced, Capital Appreciation, Health Sciences, LargeCap Growth,
MidCap Growth, and SmallCap Growth portfolios of the Alger Fund from September
12, 2001 through October 15, 2003, except those accountholders referenced in ¶6.4,
and to the extent appropriate, to the affected portfolios.

5.3 Identifying Market Timers

5

Alger Order at ¶ 54.

Page 4

6

7

5.3.1

To estimate the losses suffered by Alger Fund portfolios due to market timing
and late trading, Alger provided the IDC with a database containing data on
transactions occurring between September 12, 2001 and October 15, 2003
compiled in connection with Alger’s settlement discussions with the
Commission. The transactions in the database provided resulted from a twostep identification process. First, accounts were selected if within 30 days of a
purchase of at least $100,000 in an Alger Fund portfolio, there was a sale of at
least $10,000 in the same portfolio, between January 1, 1998 and October 15,
2003. Second, all transactions of any size by the above-selected accounts in
any Alger Fund portfolio during the relevant September 12, 2001 through
October 15, 2003 time period were included in the database.

5.3.2

Market timing consists of short-term roundtrip exchanges from (into) an Alger
Fund portfolio into (from) another portfolio, usually the Alger Money Market
Fund portfolio. The IDC identified market timing transactions in the database
for all non-omnibus accounts but was unable to identify market timing activity
for any omnibus accounts; 6,7 consequently, any losses suffered by the Alger
Fund due to market timing are only measurable for those associated with shortterm roundtrip exchanges for non-omnibus accounts. Despite this limitation, it
is the view of the IDC that measurable losses provide a fair and reasonable
basis by which to allocate the Fair Fund.

5.3.3

The IDC examined all the non-omnibus accounts in the database in each Alger
Fund portfolio for roundtrip trades within the September 12, 2001 through
October 15, 2003 period. The accounts with this pattern are referred to as
“market timers.”

5.3.4

Table 1 summarizes the number of market timers by number of accounts and
the value of all identified roundtrip trades by market timers in each Alger Fund
portfolio during the period of September 12, 2001 through October 15, 2003.
The table shows that the portfolio with the largest number of market timers was
the Capital Appreciation portfolio at 303 active accounts followed by the
MidCap Growth portfolio with 198 active accounts and the LargeCap Growth

Omnibus accounts were identified using information provided by Alger. Transactions in these accounts
represent the net of the aggregate individual transactions, preventing the identification of roundtrips by market
timers who traded within an omnibus account. While particular market timing transactions cannot be identified,
it is clear that market timing activity was occurring within omnibus accounts during the relevant period.
Transactions were matched using a LIFO inventory assumption. The dataset used as a basis for the analysis
contained transaction records that identified the date, the account, the portfolio, number of shares, dollar
amount, and a buy/sell indicator and is discussed in more detail in ¶5.3.1. The dataset did not contain
information regarding when the order resulting in a particular transaction was placed. Accordingly, no
determination of whether or not any trade represented a late trade was possible. Market timing transactions
may result in dilution no matter if the trade is late or not. For simplicity, this Distribution Plan will refer only to
market timing generally.

Page 5

portfolio at 142 active accounts. However, the MidCap Growth portfolio had
the highest dollar volume of market timer activity at $11.0 billion followed by
LargeCap Growth at $8.8 billion, and Capital Appreciation at $6.3 billion. In
particular, Veras Investment Partners, the only late trader named in the Alger
Order, was identified as a market timer on the basis of 72 roundtrip trades
during the period.

5.4

5.5

5.3.5

Similarly, Table 2 lists the number of market timers and the value of all trades
by market timers across all portfolios in each quarter during the period
September 12, 2001 through October 15, 2003. The 4th Quarter of 2001 had
the highest dollar volume of trades at $5.5 billion followed by the 1st Quarter of
2002, with $4.6 billion, and the 4th Quarter of 2002 at $4.3 billion. The
trading activity was high from the fourth quarter of 2001 through the end of
2002 before beginning to decline in 2003.

5.3.6

Timer activity was the largest in four portfolios, Capital Appreciation,
LargeCap Growth, MidCap Growth and SmallCap Growth, where timer
activity represented over 90 percent of all trading activity in the portfolios.

Estimating Dilution Losses Associated with Trading by Market Timers
5.4.1

To estimate the dilution losses incurred by accountholders in the Alger Fund
resulting from transactions by market timers, the IDC first examined whether
timer cash flows in and out of the Alger Fund portfolios during the period
September 12, 2001 through October 15, 2003 affected the equity position of
the portfolio. The appropriate dilution methodology was then applied to each
portfolio.

5.4.2

Timer activity does not always harm other accountholders. Sometimes the
market moved in the opposite direction than timers anticipated. For reasons
explained below, this would have caused timer trades to be accretive
(benefiting accountholders) rather than dilutive. The sum of the accretive and
dilutive effects for every day each accountholder is in an affected fund
determines the total net dilution or accretion for that accountholder.

Alternative Dilution Approaches
5.5.1

The amount of dilution losses associated with market timing is related to how
the portfolio manager invests the cash flows invested by market timers in the
portfolio. For example, if the portfolio manager fully invests the net cash
flows in equity securities and/or equity derivatives the day after a market timer
invests in the portfolio, and liquidates the equity investment the day after the
market timer exits the portfolio, then the “next day NAV” approach is an
appropriate way to estimate dilution losses associated with market timing (e.g.,
Greene, Jason T., and Charles W. Hodges, “The Dilution Impact of Daily Fund

Page 6

Flows on Open-End Mutual Funds,” Journal of Financial Economics, 65(1),
July 2002, 131-158 ). Under this approach, dilution losses are equal to the sum
of the market timer’s first day profits and avoided loss on the day he exits the
portfolio.

5.6

5.5.2

If the portfolio manager holds all of the market timer’s net cash flows as cash
(i.e., if he does not invest any of the market timer’s cash flows in equity
securities), then the “realized profits” approach is an appropriate way to
estimate dilution losses associated with market timing (e.g. Greene, Jason T.,
and Conrad S. Ciccotello, “Mutual Fund Dilution from Market Timing
Trades,” Journal of Investment Management, 4(1), First Quarter 2006, 31-54).
Under the realized profits approach, dilution losses are equal to the market
timer’s holding period profits.

5.5.3

A third possibility is that the portfolio manager invests some of the market
timer’s net cash flows in equity securities and holds the remainder in cash. In
this case, dilution losses are a combination of the dilution losses estimated
under the next day NAV approach and the realized profits approach.

5.5.4

A fourth possibility is that there is some investment of timer funds in equities
but over a several day period of time.

Empirical Analysis of How Alger Fund Portfolio Managers Invested Cash Flows from
Market Timers
5.6.1

8

To determine whether the Alger Fund portfolio managers invested the net cash
flows invested in the funds by market timers, the IDC estimated an ordinary
least squares regression of the net equity purchases for each Alger Fund
portfolio. For each portfolio, the IDC regressed the equity purchases on two
variables: (i) net timer flows and (ii) net cash flows invested by omnibus
accounts. For each portfolio, he estimates regression models in which net cash
flows invested by market timers and omnibus accounts are measured as lagged
variables, with lags of one through ten trading days before the day on which
the change in cash holdings (i.e., the dependent variable) is measured. The
regression models are estimated two ways. First, regressions are run on each
lag of the timer cash flows and the respective lag of the omnibus cash flows.
This is done for each portfolio for ten lags. Second, regression models are run
with ten lags of timer and omnibus cash flows. 8

The IDC obtained and examined data on the daily cash balance and net asset values of the six Alger Fund
portfolios (Balanced, Health Sciences, Capital Appreciation, Small Cap Growth, Mid Cap Growth and Large
Cap Growth) during the period of September 2001 through October 2003. For the Health Sciences portfolio,
there appear to be no significant transactions in the omnibus accounts for the Health Sciences fund.

Page 7

9

5.6.2

Table 3 reports the results from the estimation of the first set of regression
models. The coefficients on the timer cash flows are sometimes significantly
negative and sometimes significantly positive. A positive coefficient indicates
that the purchase (sale) of securities is correlated with the inflow (outflow) of
timer money. An insignificant coefficient implies that flows of timer money
are not correlated with portfolio manager decisions about investments. The
negative coefficient implies a counterintuitive result that timer money inflows
(outflows) are correlated with sales (purchases) of securities by portfolio
managers.

5.6.3

These regression results suggest that the LargeCap Growth, MidCap Growth
and SmallCap Growth portfolios may have invested some of the timers’
investments into equities. The results of this analysis show significant positive
coefficients for either the first or second lag variable for the LargeCap Growth,
MidCap Growth and SmallCap Growth portfolios. The coefficients for the
other regressions show no pattern that suggests investment. The Balanced
portfolio has one statistically significant positive coefficient for the fifth lag
term. This appears to be driven by an outlier. 9 The Health Sciences portfolio
has a positive statistically significant coefficient on the fourth lag but this is
more than made up by a negative statistically significant coefficient on the
second lag term.

5.6.4

In addition, the IDC ran a regression that included 10 lags of all timers and
omnibus accounts together in a regression for each portfolio. The results of
this regression are in Table 4. These regressions suggest that several
portfolios, notably the LargeCap Growth portfolio, the MidCap Growth
portfolio and the SmallCap Growth portfolio may have invested some portion
of timer inflows into equities. All these regressions have several statistically
significant positive coefficients suggesting that a significant proportion of
funds get invested.

5.6.5

In addition, an F-test was run which shows that the coefficients on the lagged
values of timer cash flow are jointly greater than zero for those three portfolios.
This suggests that some of the timer cash in those portfolios were invested by
their respective portfolio managers. In addition, the adjusted-R2 for these
regressions show that timer flows can explain between 8 to 10 percent of
portfolio manager trades. The other three portfolios, Balanced, Capital
Appreciation, and Health Sciences have a low adjusted-R2 and insignificant
joint F-tests when corrected for outliers. The insignificant joint F-test and low
adjusted- R2 suggest that timer cash flows in those portfolios were not invested
by their respective portfolio managers.

The largest equity purchase was made on October 26, 2001 for $17.5 million. Elimination of this day removes
any statistically significant day for the balanced fund from the Table 3 and Table 4 regression for timer flows.

Page 8

5.7

5.6.6

The IDC also looked at the weighted-average holding period of a timer’s
positions in each portfolio. The results of this analysis are in Table 5. The
typical timer held on average between 2 and 3 days for the Capital
Appreciation, MidCap Growth, and LargeCap Growth portfolios. The
Balanced portfolio was held an average of almost 5 days and the SmallCap
Growth portfolio was held an average of 6 days. The positions held in the
Health Sciences portfolio were held an average of 15 days.

5.6.7

The IDC also engaged in conversations with individuals at Charles River
Associates who had interviewed portfolio managers and reviewed SEC
testimony of Alger portfolio managers. The discussions indicated that during
the relevant time period, the MidCap Growth and SmallCap Growth portfolio
manager did not attempt to adjust the portfolio’s cash to reflect timer inflows
while the LargeCap Growth portfolio manager attempted to adjust its cash to
timer inflows and outflows. However, the portfolio managers were not always
informed about which cash inflows and outflows were due to timers and which
were due to other trading activity. This may have made it difficult to treat
timer flows differently from non-timers. The discussions also revealed that
there was often a delay of up to a day before portfolio managers were aware of
cash inflows and outflows.

5.6.8

Based on the above, it is the IDC’s opinion that different approaches may be
reasonable for different portfolios to appropriately estimate the dilution losses
associated with market timers in the Alger Fund portfolios. For three of the
portfolios, Balanced, Capital Appreciation, and Health Sciences, it appears that
little to no timer funds were invested by portfolio managers, making the
realized profits approach the most appropriate dilution methodology. For the
other three portfolios, LargeCap Growth, MidCap Growth and SmallCap
Growth, it appears that some timer funds were invested by portfolio managers
making a combination of the next day NAV approach and the realized profits
approach appropriate.

Total Dilution Caused by Market Timers
5.7.1

To arrive at the percentage of the total settlement proceeds that should be
distributed to accountholders of each portfolio on each day over this period, the
IDC estimated the total dilution caused by market timers in each Alger Fund
portfolio on each day during the period September 12, 2001 through October
15, 2003. For three portfolios, the Balanced portfolio, the Capital Appreciation
portfolio, and the Health Sciences portfolio, the realized profits approach was
used. For the other three portfolios, LargeCap Growth, MidCap Growth and
SmallCap Growth, dilution is calculated under the assumption that some of the
timers’ cash is invested. The lag structures estimated in Table 4 are used to
determine when and how much timers’ cash is invested in each of the
LargeCap Growth, MidCap Growth and SmallCap Growth portfolios.

Page 9

5.7.2

The dilution is calculated on a daily basis for each portfolio. To illustrate how
the dilution losses associated with market timing vary over time, Table 6 shows
the dilution caused by the market timers in each Alger Fund portfolio
aggregated by quarter from the third quarter of 2001 through the fourth quarter
of 2003. 10 The table shows that market timers caused total dilution (including
interest) of $10.6 million in all Alger Fund portfolios during the period. The
total includes approximately $7.1 million of dilution in 2001, $11.9 million of
accretion in 2002, and $15.4 million of dilution in 2003.

5.7.3

As Table 6 demonstrates, timer activity is not always dilutive to other
accountholders. When the market moves in the direction opposite from that
anticipated by the timers, the timer activity is accretive (benefiting
accountholders) rather than dilutive. With dilution calculated on a daily basis
for each portfolio, net dilution is calculated for each accountholder as the sum
of the dilutions and accretions for each day the account was invested in each of
the portfolios.

5.7.4

The dilution caused by market timers in Alger Fund portfolios, are highly
concentrated in 2 quarters: Q4 2001 and Q2 2003. These two quarters account
for approximately $16.9 million of the dilution.

5.7.5

The table also shows that the dilution is also highly concentrated in two Alger
fund portfolios. The MidCap Growth portfolio accounts for approximately
$8.9 million, while the SmallCap Growth portfolio accounts for approximately
$3.6 million.

6 Allocation of the Fair Fund
6.1

10

Under the Distribution Plan, accountholders of each Alger Fund portfolio, including
Direct Purchase Holders, Holders in Omnibus Accounts and Holders in Network
Accounts, will receive a prorated share of the Alger Fund portfolios’ settlement
proceeds based upon individual accountholders proportionate share of the total
dilution calculated by the IDC. “Total Dilution” is the sum of all the net dilution from
the accountholders with positive net dilution as of October 15, 2003. Funds paid to
accountholders in excess of their individual dilution amounts will be deemed to

The IDC adjusted dilution amounts to account for the time value of the dilution prior to the Commission’s
Order. For this calculation, the Federal Short Term Rate as reported monthly by the Internal Revenue Service
(Section 1274 of the Internal Revenue Code) was applied. The interest on the profits lost by a fund in a
particular quarter was calculated by cumulative application of the IRS monthly interest rates starting from the
quarter when dilution occurred and ending October 2003.

Page 10

constitute a proportionate share of advisory fees paid by funds that suffered such
losses during the period of such market timing. 11

11

6.2

The dilution (or accretion) that affects each accountholder is calculated each day the
accountholder held one of the affected portfolios. For example, suppose an
accountholder owned 0.1 percent of the MidCap Growth portfolio on a day when
MidCap Growth portfolio accountholders are entitled to a total of $1 million in
settlement proceeds. Under the Distribution Plan, the accountholder would receive
$1,000 to compensate it for dilution losses associated with market timing in the
MidCap Growth portfolio on this day (i.e., 0.001 times $1 million).

6.3

The net dilution (or accretion) for each accountholder is calculated by aggregating
within each fund all the dilution and accretion for all days that the accountholders held
each affected fund. The accountholders with net dilution will be compensated through
the Distribution Plan and will be considered Eligible Accountholders. It is not feasible
to aggregate accounts by named account holder to make an overall dilution
determination because accounts may be held in different capacities with different legal
entitlements. This information was not included in the data provided, and it would be
cost prohibitive to attempt to collect. Some accountholders will have net accretion,
which means they benefited from the timing activity of market timers, and they will
not receive compensation under the Distribution Plan.

6.4

Respondents, Veras Investment Partners, as well as accountholders whose gains from
their market timing activity exceed their losses caused by the market timing of other
accountholders, as well as Identified Excluded Timers (as defined in Section 7.6.2.4),
will not be eligible for a distribution under the Distribution Plan. In addition, prior to
commencement of any distribution under this Distribution Plan, the IDC shall inquire
of the Fund Administrator, Respondents, and/or the staff of the Commission which, if
any, of the investors potentially eligible to receive a distribution under this
Distribution Plan are persons who have either (a) been found in a final and nonappealable order of a court or regulatory body of competent jurisdiction to have
engaged in unlawful behavior affecting the affected mutual funds during the relevant
period or to have engaged in market timing or late trading conduct that is the basis of
the unlawful behavior alleged in another Court or Commission proceeding, (b) entered
into a settlement of any proceeding before a court or regulatory body in which such
unlawful behavior has been alleged, unless the IDC determines that the settlement
should not be deemed an admission of such unlawful behavior, or (c) admitted in
writing to such behavior. Based upon any information provided in response to such
inquiries, the IDC shall determine which if any of such investors will be excluded
from participation in this Distribution Plan. In making any such determination, the
IDC may rely on documents and other information provided by Respondents, the
Commission, or courts of competent jurisdiction. Any investor excluded from

Total fund advisory fees paid during the period significantly exceeded the remainder of the Fair Fund after
subtracting Total Dilution adjusted for interest.

Page 11

participation in this Distribution Plan shall receive a notice from the IDC or the Fund
Administrator. An excluded investor shall not receive any portion of the Fair Fund on
behalf of those accounts that are associated with activities that result in such
exclusion, and any distribution that would otherwise have been payable to an excluded
investor shall be added to the Fair Fund residual.

7

6.5

Only accountholders with an aggregate prorated share of at least $10 are eligible to
receive a distribution from the Fair Fund. This decision is based on the conclusion
that it is not cost effective to attempt to distribute amounts of less than $10 to
individual accounts. The ratio of the distribution per calculated accountholder dilution
will be chosen such that the total amount sent to accountholders with a prorated
amount of at least $10 equals the amount available in the Fair Fund.

6.6

Any monies remaining in the Fair Fund after completing the distribution to individual
accountholders and omnibus accounts not to exceed $10 million are part of the
Residual Funds and, pursuant to Section 7.17, shall be transmitted to the U.S.
Treasury. To the extent that any remaining funds are in excess of $10 million, such
funds shall be distributed to the Alger Fund portfolios based on the proportion of
aggregate excess profits by market timers accounted for by each Alger Fund portfolio
that experienced dilution. For example, suppose, after the distribution to
accountholders (including both individual and omnibus accounts), there is a $5 million
excess above $10 million remaining in the Fair Fund, then $4.2 million of the
settlement proceeds will be distributed to the Alger MidCap Growth portfolio (i.e., $5
million times 85% (the proportion of aggregate excess profits earned by market timers
in the MidCap Growth portfolio relative to the three portfolios that had net dilution)).
Each fund eligible to receive a distribution will be notified that the allocated monies
are designated solely for the fund, should be deposited into the fund’s asset base, and
prior to such deposit to the asset base, are not to be used directly for administrative or
management fees.

Distribution of Funds
7.1

Fund Administrator. Rust Consulting, Inc. (“Rust”) is proposed to serve as Fund
Administrator pursuant to Rule 1105 of the Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund and
Disgorgement Plans (“Rules”), 17 C.F.R. §201.1105 (the “Fund Administrator”). The
Respondents will provide all the information that Rust requires in order to administer
the Distribution Plan.
7.1.1

Rust, founded in 1976, specializes in claims administration and the
development and implementation of plans for the distribution of settlement
funds, and has administered more than 1,500 cases worth billions of dollars
with class sizes ranging from 80 class members to more than 100 million. Rust
has never had any occurrence of employee or vendor problems or claims
against its Errors & Omissions insurance due to employee theft or dishonesty.
Over the past three years alone, Rust has distributed approximately $1.8 billion

Page 12

in settlement disbursements to approximately 9.6 million recipients without
incident. Rust typically oversees the check printing process and relies on a
third party check-printing vendor. Rust will be compensated for its time and
expenses by the Respondents in accordance with the terms set forth in the
Alger Order. Under the supervision of the IDC, Rust will perform the duties
and obligations set forth herein, including overseeing the administration of the
Fair Fund; obtaining accurate mailing information for accountholders;
cooperating with the tax administrator in providing the information necessary
to accomplish the income tax compliance; setting up and staffing a call center
to address accountholder questions or concerns regarding the distribution; and
distributing funds from the Fair Fund to accountholders in accordance with the
Distribution Plan. Once the Fair Fund has been transferred from BFS to
Deutsche Bank , the Fund Administrator will prepare and submit to the staff in
accordance with Rule 1105(f) periodic quarterly accountings of all monies
earned or received and all monies spent in connection with the administration
of the Distribution Plan; and, with the IDC, will submit a final accounting for
approval of the Commission prior to termination of the Fair Fund and
discharge of the Fund Administrator.
7.2

Limitation on Liability. The IDC and the Fund Administrator, and/or each of their
designees, agents and assigns, shall be entitled to rely on any Orders issued in this
proceeding by the Commission, the Secretary by delegated authority, or an
Administrative Law Judge, and may not be held liable to any injured accountholder or
potential injured accountholder for any act or omission in the course of administering
the Fair Fund, except upon a finding that such act or omission is caused by such
party’s gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct, reckless disregard of duty, or
reckless failure to comply with the terms of the Distribution Plan. This paragraph 7.2
is an expression of the current state of the law and is not intended, nor should it be
deemed to be, a representation to or an indemnification of the IDC or the Fund
Administrator or their designees, agents and assigns, nor should this paragraph 7.2
preclude the Commission or the Qualified Settlement Funds (“QSF”) from seeking
redress for any act or omission in the course of administering the Fair Fund or from
seeking redress from any insurance or bond provided as set forth in this Distribution
Plan.

7.3

Custody of the Fair Fund and Other Security Issues.
7.3.1

The Fair Fund constitutes a QSF under Section 468B(g) of the Internal
Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. §468B(g), and related regulations, 26 C.F.R.
§§1.468B-1 through 1.468B-5.

7.3.2

The assets of the Fair Fund are subject to the continuing jurisdiction and
control of the Commission. As set forth above, ¶2.2, the Fair Fund is currently
deposited at the BFS. .

Page 13

7.3.2.1

Upon approval of the Distribution Plan, the Fund Administrator shall
establish an escrow account (“Escrow Account”), at Deutsche Bank
(“Bank”), together with either a controlled distribution account,
managed distribution account, linked checking and investment
account or similar deposit account name that fits the practice of the
Bank (“Distribution Account”). The Escrow and Distribution
Accounts will be established in the name of the QSF as custodian for
the distributees of the Distribution Plan, and shall bear the Employer
Identification Number (“EIN”) of the QSF, in the following form:
Fred Alger Distribution Fund as custodian for the distributees of the
Alger Fund Plan of Distribution (together referred to as the “QSF
Account”); EIN ______.

7.3.2.2

The Fund Administrator and Bank will establish the accounts
pursuant to an Escrow Agreement provided by the staff of the
Commission. The Fund Administrator shall be the signer on the QSF
Account, supervised by the IDC, and subject to the continuing
jurisdiction and control of the Commission. The Fund Administrator
shall authorize the Bank to provide account information to the Tax
Administrator, including providing duplicate statements for the QSF
Account. The Fund Administrator shall use the assets and earnings of
the Fair Fund to provide payments to Eligible Accountholders and to
provide the Tax Administrator with assets to pay, as appropriate, tax
liabilities and tax compliance fees and costs.

7.3.2.3

In consultation with the staff of the Commission, the Fund
Administrator shall work with the Bank on an ongoing basis to
determine an allocation of funds between the Escrow and the
Distribution accounts that will preserve earnings, if possible, without
compromising safety and soundness by providing maximum
protection for the Fair Fund under the full faith and credit of the
United States Government (“U.S. Government”) and/or the maximum
available Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) deposit
insurance and pass-through deposit insurance.

7.3.2.4

During the term of the Escrow Agreement, if invested, the Escrow
Account shall be invested and reinvested in short-term United States
Treasury securities backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S.
Government or an agency thereof, of a type and term necessary to
meet the cash liquidity requirements for payments to Eligible
Accountholders, tax obligations and/or fees of the Tax Administrator
and/or Fund Administrator, including investment or reinvestment in a
bank account insured by the FDIC up to the guaranteed FDIC limit,
or in AAA-rated Money Market Mutual Funds registered under the
Investment Company Act of 1940 that directly invest in short term

Page 14

U.S. Treasury securities and obligations, all backed by the full faith
and credit of the U.S. Government; provided however, that any
investment by an AAA-rated Money Market Mutual Fund in short
term U.S. Treasury securities will not be made through repurchase
agreements and/or other derivative products.
7.3.2.5

Pursuant to the Alger Order, the IDC has developed the Distribution
Plan, and the escrow agent has provided to the IDC an attestation that
all funds in the Escrow Account will be held for the Distribution Plan
and that the escrow agent will not, directly or indirectly, place any
lien or encumbrance of any kind upon the funds. All interest earned
on the monies will inure to the benefit of accountholders except as
otherwise provided in the Order or herein. All fees and costs
associated with the Escrow Account and the Distribution Account
will be borne exclusively by one or more of the Respondents, in
accordance with the Alger Order. Upon the Bank’s receipt of funds
from the Treasury, the Bank shall promptly deposit the funds into the
Escrow Account.

7.3.2.6 Following approval of the Distribution Plan, and submission by the
IDC of a list of payees and amounts to the Commission staff and all
information necessary to make disbursement to each distributee, and
unless otherwise directed by the Commission, the Commission staff
shall cause the balance in the Fair Fund to be deposited in the QSF
Account. For funds in the Escrow Account invested pursuant to the
Escrow Agreement, subject to the controls set forth below, the
amount needed to satisfy any presented check will be transferred to
the Distribution Account and immediately paid out. For any payment
to be made by wire instruction, and subject to the controls set forth
below, funds will be paid by the escrow agent from the Escrow
Account in accordance with written instructions provided to the
escrow agent by parties authorized by the Escrow Agreement.
7.3.2.7

7.3.3

The Fund Administrator will obtain a bond in accordance with Rule
1105(c) of the Commission’s Rules in the amount of
$40,000,000. The cost of the bond premium will be paid from the
Fair Fund, first from the interest earned on the invested funds, then, if
not sufficient, from the corpus.

The Bank will hold Fair Fund assets during the check-cashing period and
require use of a positive payment system. Once the Fair Fund assets are
transferred from the U.S. Treasury to the Bank, they shall be placed in an
escrow account which shall invest and reinvest the escrow property in shortterm U.S. Treasury securities and obligations, all backed by the full faith and
credit of the U.S. Government; provided however, that investments in short-

Page 15

term U.S. Treasury securities will not be made through repurchase agreements
or other derivative products. This shall be done pursuant to the terms of an
escrow agreement that must be acceptable to the staff of the Commission.
When checks are presented for payment by recipients of the distribution, and
validated by the Fund Administrator, the exact amount necessary to pay such
presented checks shall be transferred from the escrow account into a
distribution account bearing the name and taxpayer identification number of
the Fair Fund, and validated presented checks shall be paid from this
distribution account. For any payment to be made by wire instruction, the
appropriate funds will be distributed by the escrow agent from the escrow
account directly to the payee in accordance with written instructions provided
to the escrow agent by the Fund Administrator. The Bank maintains a
Financial Institutions (FI) Bond, including errors and omissions coverage with
an aggregate limit of 125 million Euros. The primary insurer is a company
which, as of its most recent renewal, was rated A+ by A.M. Best. The Bank
annually assesses the adequacy of its policy limits through extensive analysis
of historic loss data, exposure to loss and internal company controls. The
Bank’s limits are reviewed annually by the Bank’s Board of Directors.
Documentation has been provided to the staff to support the foregoing
representations.
7.4

Additional Distribution Controls. Following approval of the Distribution Plan, and in
order to maximize the security of the Fair Fund, the following procedures will be
followed in connection with the Fair Fund:
7.4.1

In order to distribute funds, the IDC will submit a validated list of payees and
the payment amounts to the assigned Commission staff, who will obtain
authorization from the Commission to disburse pursuant to Rule 1101(b)(6).
The payees and amounts will be validated at the IDC’s direction by the Fund
Administrator. The validation will state that the list was compiled in
accordance with the Distribution Plan and provides all information necessary
to make disbursement to each distributee. Unless otherwise directed by the
Commission, the Commission staff will obtain an Order Directing
Disbursement that releases funds to the bank account established by the Fund
Administrator based upon the validated list and representation by the Fund
Administrator that the checks or electronic transfers will be issued within the
next 5 business days.

7.4.2

Upon presentation of an outstanding check, and subject to the controls set forth
below, the exact amount needed to satisfy the presented obligation will be
transferred from the Escrow Account to the Distribution Account and
immediately paid out. As stated in ¶7.3.2.2, for any payment to be made by
wire instruction, funds will be distributed by the escrow agent from the Escrow
Account in accordance with written instructions provided to the escrow agent
by parties authorized by the Escrow Agreement.

Page 16

7.4.3

The Positive Pay system for clearing checks at the Bank will be used to control
distributions from the Distribution Account, requiring, among other things,
confirmation by the Bank that all checks presented for payment match the
identifiers and amounts on the positive pay file prior to payment of the
presented obligation.

7.4.4

Upon the Bank’s receipt of a wire instruction, the Bank will take the following
steps before the escrow agent will release any funds from the Escrow Account:
7.4.4.1

An administrative employee of the Bank will:
7.4.4.1.1

Check that the signatures on the wire instruction are those
of the persons authorized to issue wire instructions in the
Escrow Agreement and that the wire instruction is
otherwise complete and in accordance with the Escrow
Agreement; and

7.4.4.1.2

Input the wire instructions into the computer system of the
Bank.

7.4.4.2

A Bank officer will compare the wire instruction entered by the
administrative employee into the Bank computer system with the
original wire instruction prior to approving the wire instruction for
execution by the escrow agent.

7.4.4.3

Upon the Bank officer’s approval of the wire instruction for
execution, the escrow agent will release the exact amount needed to
satisfy the presented wire transfer in accordance with the wire
instruction.

7.5 Oversight and Costs. The Fund Administrator will assist the IDC in administering
this Distribution Plan. The IDC has oversight authority over the Fund Administrator
in the conduct of its duties with respect to this engagement and the Fund
Administrator will keep the IDC informed as to work on this engagement. Except as
otherwise provided herein, the Respondents are responsible for all fees and costs
associated with the administration of the Distribution Plan.
7.6 Procedures for Identifying and Distributing to Eligible Accountholders. The Fund
Administrator will identify and make distributions to Eligible Accountholders in
several ways, depending on the distribution channel through which the accountholder
purchased the shares. The manner in which the accountholders will be identified and
paid is as follows:

Page 17

7.6.1

Direct Purchase Holders: The Fund Administrator will use records provided
by Alger Management and Alger Inc. and transfer agency records to identify
each Direct Purchase Holder and determine the shares held by each on a daily
basis. The Fund Administrator will then, in accordance with the Distribution
Plan and under the supervision of the IDC, determine the distribution amount
payable to each eligible accountholder.

7.6.2

Omnibus Account Holders: Under the supervision of the IDC, the Fund
Administrator will identify and determine the Distribution Amount for these
accountholders as follows:
7.6.2.1

The Fund Administrator will use transfer agent records and other
Alger Management and Alger Inc. resources to identify “Omnibus
Accounts.”

7.6.2.2

The Fund Administrator will, in accordance with the Distribution
Plan, determine “net” shares held in each Omnibus Account on a
daily basis.

7.6.2.3

Under the supervision of the IDC, the Fund Administrator will
calculate the total amount due to each Omnibus Account using the
methodology set forth in the Distribution Plan.

7.6.2.4

The Fund Administrator will engage in an “Outreach Process” by
which the Fund Administrator will contact each “Omnibus Account
Brokerage Firm” with provisional distributions of $1,000 or more and
request individual accountholder records (i.e., shares held by each
accountholder on each day). The individual accountholder name and
address, as well as the Tax Identification Number, for each account
within the Omnibus Account, will be requested from the Omnibus
Account Brokerage Firm that sold the Alger Fund portfolios in this
manner. Each of the Omnibus Brokerage Firms listed in Appendix A
to the Distribution Plan also will be requested to identify any and all
individual accountholders who made six or more exchanges into
and/or out of Alger Fund portfolios annually by telephone or in
writing (“Identified Excluded Timers”). The accounts that are
directly underlying the Omnibus Account will be referred to as “Tier
1.”

7.6.2.5

The Fund Administrator shall maintain in confidence shareholder
identifying information and any other information relating to subaccount holders obtained from any Omnibus Accountholder pursuant
to this Distribution Plan, and shall not share such information with
Respondents. The Fund Administrator, however, may share such
information with its service providers or other parties to the extent

Page 18

necessary to perform its duties under this Distribution Plan, and the
Fund Administrator shall require that such service providers and other
parties maintain such information in confidence.
7.6.2.6

Upon receipt of the individual accountholder records from each
Omnibus Account Brokerage Firm, the Fund Administrator will, in
accordance with the methodology set forth in the Distribution Plan,
calculate the amount due each Tier 1 account, excluding the
Identified Excluded Timers (as defined in Section 7.6.2.4), who will
not be entitled to any recovery under the Distribution Plan.

7.6.2.7

The Fund Administrator will maintain records of efforts made to
obtain the cooperation of the Omnibus Account Brokerage Firm and
of the responses to these efforts. After 60 days from the approval of
the Distribution Plan, the Outreach Process will cease, unless
otherwise directed by the IDC. Omnibus Accountholders may (1) fail
within a reasonable time to respond to the Fund Administrator’s
request for information identifying shareholders or (2) refuse to
provide the Fund Administrator with the requested information. In
those instances, the Fund Administrator will proceed as follows: the
Fund Administrator will ask the omnibus accountholder to certify that
the omnibus accountholder will make commercially reasonable
efforts consistent with its legal, fiduciary, and contractual duties, as
applicable, to disburse the Fair Fund payment to its affected
accountholders in accordance with the methodology and the deadlines
set forth in this Distribution Plan, and that the omnibus accountholder
will return any undistributed money; provided, however, that each of
the Omnibus Brokerage Firms listed in Appendix A to the
Distribution Plan will certify that no payments were made to any
Identified Excluded Timers (as defined in Section 7.6.2.4). After
each such omnibus accountholder has provided its certification(s) to
the IDC, which Fund Administrator will make commercially
reasonable efforts to obtain under the direction of the IDC, the IDC
will instruct the Fund Administrator to include the portion of the Fair
Fund allocated to the omnibus accountholder in the distribution, so
that it can distribute the funds to its affected sub-accountholders. In
the event such omnibus accountholder refuses or fails to provide such
certification, the amount of Fair Fund allocated to such omnibus
accountholder shall be treated as “undistributed” for purposes of this
Distribution Plan, and processed pursuant to ¶ 6.6 above. After the
omnibus accountholder has distributed the funds in this fashion, the
omnibus accountholder will be required to provide the IDC with a
certification that it has complied with these terms and conditions.

Page 19

7.6.2.7.1

7.6.2.8

7.6.3

The Fund Administrator will maintain records of each
attempt to contact an omnibus accountholder about
providing a certification to receive a distribution payment
and each response received, if any. These records will be
provided to Commission staff at least 60 days before the
scheduled distribution.

Respondents have agreed to pay the reasonable costs of gathering
shareholder/demographic information as defined in ¶7.7 from opaque
omnibus accounts which elect to do the distribution. However, the
Respondents should not have to pay more than the amount that would
be distributed had the Omnibus Account Brokerage Firm been treated
as an individual.

Network Account Holders: Under the supervision of the IDC, the Fund
Administrator will determine the Distribution Amount for these accountholders
as follows:
7.6.3.1

The Fund Administrator will use transfer agent records and other
Alger Management and Alger Inc. resources to identify “Network
Accounts.”

7.6.3.2

The Fund Administrator will, in accordance with the Distribution
Plan, determine “net” shares held in the Network Accounts on a daily
basis.

7.6.3.3

The Fund Administrator will, in accordance with the Distribution
Plan, calculate the total amount due to the Network Accounts using
the methodology set forth above.

7.6.3.4

The Fund Administrator will engage in an “Outreach Process” by
which the Fund Administrator will contact each “Network Firm” with
provisional distributions of $1,000 or more and request individual
accountholder identification information. The individual
accountholder name and address, as well as the Tax Identification
Number, typically the individual’s Social Security Number, will be
requested for each of these accounts. This information will be
requested from the Network Firms identified in the records of Alger
Management and Alger Inc. as having sold the Alger Fund in this
manner.

7.6.3.5

The Fund Administrator shall maintain in confidence shareholder
identifying information and any other information relating to subaccount holders obtained from any Network Accountholder pursuant
to this Distribution Plan, and shall not share such information with

Page 20

Respondents. The Fund Administrator, however, may share such
information with its service providers or other parties to the extent
necessary to perform its duties under this Distribution Plan, and the
Fund Administrator shall require that such service providers and other
parties maintain such information in confidence.
7.6.3.6

Upon receipt of the individual accountholder records from each
Network Firm, the Fund Administrator will, in accordance with the
methodology set forth in the Distribution Plan, calculate the amount
due each account.

7.6.3.7

The Fund Administrator will maintain records of efforts made to
obtain the cooperation of the Network Firm and of the responses to
these efforts. After 60 days from the approval of the Distribution
Plan, the Outreach Process will cease, unless otherwise directed by
the IDC. Network Firms may (1) fail within a reasonable time to
respond to the Fund Administrator’s request for information
identifying shareholders or (2) refuse to provide the Fund
Administrator with the requested information. In those instances, the
Fund Administrator will proceed as follows: the Fund Administrator
will ask the Network Firm to certify that the Network Firm will make
commercially reasonable efforts consistent with its legal, fiduciary,
and contractual duties, as applicable, to disburse the Fair Fund
payment to its affected accountholders in accordance with the
methodology and the deadlines set forth in this Distribution Plan, and
that the Network Firm will return any undistributed money to an
account that has been established to hold otherwise undistributed
funds for ultimate disposition in accordance with this Distribution
Plan. After each such Network Firm has provided its certification to
the IDC, which Fund Administrator will make commercially
reasonable efforts to obtain under the direction of the IDC, the IDC
will instruct the Fund Administrator to include the portion of the Fair
Fund allocated to the Network Firm in the distribution, so that it can
distribute the funds to its affected sub-accountholders. In the event
such Network Firm refuses or fails to provide such certification, the
amount of Fair Fund allocated to such Network Firm shall be treated
as “undistributed” for purposes of this Distribution Plan, and
processed pursuant to ¶ 6.6 above. After the Network Firm has
distributed the funds in this fashion, the Network Firm will be
required to provide the IDC with a certification that it has complied
with these terms and conditions.
7.6.3.7.1

The Fund Administrator will maintain records of each
attempt to contact a Network Firm about providing a
certification to receive a distribution payment and each

Page 21

response received, if any. These records will be provided
to Commission staff at least 60 days before the scheduled
distribution.
7.6.3.8

7.6.4

Respondents have agreed to pay the reasonable costs of gathering
shareholder/demographic information as defined in ¶7.7 from opaque
omnibus accounts which elect to do the distribution. However, the
Respondents should not have to pay more than the amount that would
be distributed had the Omnibus Account Brokerage Firm been treated
as an individual.

Embedded Omnibus Accounts. To the extent that the accountholder identification
information provided to The Fund Administrator in accordance with ¶¶7.6.2.4 and
7.6.3.4 in turn identifies “Omnibus Accounts” or “Network Accounts,” the Fund
Administrator will not seek account-holder information relating to the beneficiaries
of such accounts. In this instance, the Fund Administrator will proceed as follows:
the Fund Administrator will ask the Omnibus accountholder or Network Firm to
certify that the Omnibus accountholder or Network Firm will make commercially
reasonable efforts consistent with its legal, fiduciary, and contractual duties, as
applicable, to disburse the Fair Fund payment to its affected accountholders in
accordance with the methodology and the deadlines set forth in this Distribution Plan,
and that the Omnibus accountholder or Network Firm will return any undistributed
money to an account that has been established to hold otherwise undistributed funds
for ultimate disposition in accordance with this Distribution Plan. After each such
Omnibus accountholder or Network Firm has provided its certification to the IDC,
which Fund Administrator will make commercially reasonable efforts to obtain under
the direction of the IDC, the IDC will instruct the Fair Fund’s custodian to disburse
the portion of the Fair Fund allocated to the Omnibus accountholder or Network Firm
so that it can distribute the funds to its affected sub-accountholders. In the event such
Omnibus accountholder or Network Firm refuses or fails to provide such
certification, the amount of Fair Fund allocated to such Omnibus accountholder or
Network Firm for an embedded account shall be treated as “undistributed” for
purposes of this Distribution Plan, and processed pursuant to Section 6.9, above.
After the Omnibus accountholder or Network Firm has distributed the funds in this
fashion, the Omnibus accountholder or Network Firm will be required to provide the
IDC with a certification that it has complied with these terms and conditions.
7.6.4.1

The Fund Administrator will maintain records of each attempt to
contact an Omnibus accountholder or Network Firm about providing
a certification to receive a distribution payment and each response
received, if any. These records will be provided to Commission staff
at least 60 days before the scheduled distribution.

Page 22

7.6.5

Non-IRA Retirement Plans
7.6.5.1

“Retirement Plan” as used in this Distribution Plan means an
employee benefit plan, as such plans are defined in Section 3(3) of
ERISA, 29 U.S.C. § 1002(3), which is not an Individual Retirement
Account (“IRA”), whether or not the plan is subject to Title I of
ERISA. Under this Distribution Plan, distributions to IRAs will be
made in accordance with ¶¶7.6.1-7.6.4, above.

7.6.5.2

Assets of Retirement Plans are held in trust by a trustee, and the trust
is the legal owner of the assets. This Distribution Plan requires the
plan fiduciaries and intermediaries, as defined in Department of
Labor Field Assistance Bulletin No. 2006-01, April 19, 2006 (the
“Field Assistance Bulletin”), of Retirement Plans to distribute the
monies received in accordance with their legal, fiduciary, and
contractual obligations and consistent with guidance issued by the
Department of Labor, including, but not limited to, the Field
Assistance Bulletin.

7.6.5.3

An intermediary to one or more Retirement Plans may allocate the
distribution it receives pursuant to this Distribution Plan among
eligible Retirement Plans participating in an Omnibus Account
administered by such intermediary according to the procedures set
forth in ¶¶6.2–6.4 above or according to the average share or dollar
balances of the Retirement Plans’ investment in the Balanced, Health
Sciences, Capital Appreciation, SmallCap Growth, MidCap Growth
and LargeCap Growth portfolios during September 2001 through
October 2003, provided, however, that for the purposes of such
allocation each Retirement Plan itself (and not the individual plan
participants) shall be treated as the beneficial owner.

7.6.5.4

The fiduciary of a Retirement Plan receiving a distribution may
distribute it pursuant to one of the following four alternatives:
7.6.5.4.1

Retirement Plan fiduciaries may allocate the distribution
to current and former participants in the Retirement Plan
using the methodology referenced in ¶¶6.2–6.4 above.
The IDC will make this methodology available to
Retirement Plan fiduciaries.

7.6.5.4.2

Retirement Plan fiduciaries may allocate the distribution
pro rata (based on total account balance) among the
accounts of all persons who are currently participants in
the Retirement Plan (whether or not they are currently
employees).

Page 23

7.6.5.5

7.6.5.4.3

Retirement Plan fiduciaries may allocate the distribution
per capita among the accounts of all persons who are
currently participants in the Retirement Plan (whether or
not they are currently employees).

7.6.5.4.4

To the extent that none of the three preceding alternatives
is administratively feasible because the costs of effecting
the allocation exceed the amount of the distribution,
Retirement Plan fiduciaries may, to the extent permitted
by the Retirement Plan, use the distribution amount to pay
the reasonable expenses of administering the Retirement
Plan.

In view of, among other things, alternative distribution methodologies
available to Retirement Plans, plan fiduciaries and/or intermediaries
will not be reimbursed the costs and expenses associated with
administering the distribution received pursuant to this Distribution
Plan.

7.7

Subject to ¶ 7.6.5.5, and in accordance with the Order, the Respondents will bear the
costs and expenses associated with the administration of the Distribution Plan,
including the reasonable administrative costs incurred by Omnibus Holder Brokerage
Firms and Network Firms for identifying individual accountholder records in
connection with the Distribution Plan. Requests for reimbursement from Omnibus
Holder Brokerage Firms or Network Firms will be paid to the extent that such costs
are commercially reasonable in light of the amount to be distributed to such firms. All
reimbursement requests are subject to final review by the IDC and the Fund
Administrator.

7.8

Data Accuracy. All brokerage firms providing information to the Fund Administrator
will be required to attest to the IDC that to the best of their knowledge the information
they provide is true and accurate.

7.9

Affected Accountholders. Even though the Distribution Plan does not anticipate
soliciting accountholder information directly from affected accountholders, it can be
expected that a limited number of accountholders will contact the IDC, or others, to
request a distribution. If this occurs, the information received will be compared to the
data obtained during the course of the engagement to 1) ensure accurate account
information and 2) avoid any duplication of payment. This information will be
forwarded to the Fund Administrator for processing.

7.10 Notice and Accountholder Communications. The Distribution Plan will utilize the
following methods to provide notifications and information to affected accountholders.
These services will become active at least by the time of the first distribution. The

Page 24

Commission retains the right to review and approve any material posted on the various
websites.
7.10.1 Alger Website and Toll Free Numbers. The Fund Administrator will provide
customer support and communications programs which will become active at
least by the time the first distribution occurs. These services will include a toll
free number and a website to the public. The Commission retains the right to
review and approve any material posted on the website. The website will
provide a link to the Commission’s website, which is:
http://www.sec.gov/litigation/fairfundlist.htm.
7.10.2 Final Approved Distribution Plan. The Distribution Plan, once it has been
approved by the Commission (“Final Approved Distribution Plan”) will be
posted on the following free public websites:
• http://www.sec.gov/litigation/fairfundlist.htm
• http://www.algerfairfundsettlement.com/
7.10.3 Frequently Asked Questions. In addition to the Final Approved Distribution
Plan, a list of “Frequently Asked Questions” (“FAQs”) will be posted on the
following website:
• http://www.algerfairfundsettlement.com/
7.11 Initial Distribution. Upon the Commission’s approval, and subject to ¶7.12.3, below,
the IDC will direct the Fund Administrator to implement the Final Approved
Distribution Plan.
7.11.1 All payments shall be preceded or accompanied by a communication (the
“Letter”) that includes, as appropriate: (a) a statement describing the
distribution; (b) a description of the tax information reporting and other related
tax matters; (c) a statement that checks will be void after 90 days; and (d) the
name of a person to contact, to be used in the event of any questions regarding
the distribution. The Letter or other communication to Eligible
Accountholders describing their distributions shall be submitted to the assigned
Commission staff for review and approval. Distribution checks, on their face
or in the accompanying mailing, will clearly indicate that the money is being
distributed from a Fair Fund established by the SEC.
7.11.2 All accountholders whose distribution is less than the taxable threshold that
includes a taxable component will receive the Letter and their distribution
checks.
7.11.3 All accountholders whose distribution exceeds the taxable threshold and
includes a taxable component will receive the Letter, Form 1099 (or similar
document), and their distribution check.

Page 25

7.11.4 It is expected that all distribution checks will be mailed, via the United States
Postal Service (“USPS”), to the Eligible Accountholders’ last known address
of record. All checks drawn on the Account will bear the legend “Void after
90 days.” A wire transfer may be made in lieu of a check payment where
efficiencies dictate. Unless specific direction is provided by the IDC or the
Commission staff, checks that are not negotiated within the 90-day period will
not be honored and the Fund Administrator will instruct the Bank to refuse
payment on those checks.
7.11.5 Once the Fair Fund has been transferred from the BFS to the Bank, the Fund
Administrator will file an accounting during the first ten days of each calendar
quarter on a standardized accounting form provided by the staff of the
Commission, and will submit a final accounting for approval of the
Commission prior to termination of the Fair Fund and discharge of the IDC or
Fund Administrator. The Fund Administrator will provide regular updates and
reconciliations to the IDC, and will provide a final reconciliation of all undistributed funds to the IDC.
7.11.6 Tax Issues. The methods of calculation of each accountholder’s share of the
Fair Fund are intended to result in a payment to each eligible accountholder
that restores the impaired value of the accountholder’s investment in affected
Alger Fund portfolios. Some of this impaired value is susceptible to
calculation while some of this impaired value is not. The methods of
calculation are intended by the Commission to fairly estimate the impaired
value that each accountholder has suffered and make a payment in that amount.
7.11.7 Tax Administrator. The Commission has appointed Damasco & Associates
(“Damasco”) as the Tax Administrator of the Fair Fund (“Tax Administrator”).
See Order Appointing Tax Administrator, Admin. Proc. File No. 3-12540,
Release No. 55888 (June 8, 2007). The IDC, Fund Administrator, and
Respondents will cooperate with the Tax Administrator in providing
information necessary to accomplish the income tax compliance, ruling and
advice work assigned to the Tax Administrator by the Commission. The Tax
Administrator shall be compensated by the Respondents.
7.11.8 Other Tax Obligations. The IDC will consult with the Tax Administrator
regarding the Fair Fund’s income tax compliance, reporting and withholding
obligations, if any. The IDC shall work with the Tax Administrator to make
adequate reserves for tax liability and any costs of tax compliance not required
to be paid by the Respondents.
7.11.8.1 Before submitting a validated payment file to the Commission staff or
before obtaining an Order Directing Disbursement from the
Commission, the Fund Administrator will coordinate with the Tax
Administrator to determine whether it is necessary to solicit an IRS

Page 26

Form W-8 (Foreign or non-resident entities) or an IRS Form W-9
(U.S. or resident entities) from each fund.
7.12 Claims Process. The Fair Fund is not being distributed according to a claims-made
process, so the procedures for providing notice and for making and approving claims
are not applicable.
7.13 Procedure for Handling Disputes. Accountholders may initiate disputes through the
call center within 30 days of the initial distribution date. The bases for such disputes
are limited to claims that the accountholder received an incorrect amount in the
distribution, or was incorrectly excluded from the distribution because the terms of the
Distribution Plan were incorrectly applied to that accountholder. The call center will
refer any such accountholder disputes to the IDC for resolution within 30 days, which
shall be final. The IDC will not consider types of disputes other than those identified
in this Section.
7.14 Locating Accountholders. Returned and/or undelivered mail and checks will be
handled as follows:
7.14.1 All mail returned by the USPS for which a new forwarding address has been
provided by the USPS will be immediately repackaged and sent to the new
address. The master database will be updated with the new address.
7.14.2 All mail returned by the USPS for the first time, without a new forwarding
address, will be coded as return mail. The check will be voided, and the
information forwarded to a company that has access to address information.
That company will then search for the most current address available through
its proprietary databases, and return each record back to the Fund
Administrator. If a new address is found, that address will be updated to the
master database and a new check will be issued.
7.14.3 All mail returned by the USPS from a second attempted mailing, for which a
new forwarding address has been provided by the USPS, will be immediately
repackaged and sent to the new address. The master database will be updated
with the new address.
7.14.4 All mail returned by the USPS from a second attempted mailing, without a new
forwarding address, will be coded as returned mail and the check will be
voided. Additional efforts to identify the addresses of Eligible Accountholders
will be conducted as is commercially reasonable in the view of the IDC, where
the costs of further research and the amount to be distributed will be
considered.

Page 27

7.14.5 All uncashed checks returned as undeliverable will be coded as such. These
checks will be identified as “VOID,” coded into the settlement database and
stored in a secure facility until they are destroyed.
7.15 Special Circumstances. It is anticipated that distribution checks will be returned to the
Fund Administrator for various reasons, including the death, divorce, incapacitation,
bankruptcy, or dissolution of the affected eligible accountholder. The Fund
Administrator and/or IDC will resolve and process these distributions on a case-bycase basis.
7.16 Receipt of Additional Funds. This Fair Fund has been deposited at the BFS for
investment in government obligations. Other than interest from these investments, it is
not anticipated that the Fair Fund will receive additional funds.
7.17 Residual Funds. Following the completion of the Fair Fund disbursements described
in ¶6, appeals, if any, under ¶7.13, the payment of all taxes and fees, and Commission
approval of the final accounting, the Fair Fund residual will be transferred to the U.S.
Treasury.
7.18 Termination of the Fair Fund. Within 20 days after the last day of the month after the
final distribution of uncashed or unclaimed funds, the Fund Administrator shall make
arrangement for the final payment of taxes and Tax Administrator fees and shall
submit a final accounting to the Commission in an SEC standard accounting format
provided by the Commission (the “Final Accounting”).
7.18.1 The Fair Fund shall be eligible for termination, and the Fund Administrator
shall be discharged, after all of the following have occurred: (1) a Final
Accounting, by the Fund Administrator, in an SEC standard accounting format
provided by the staff, has been submitted for approval and has been approved
by the Commission, (2) all taxes, fees and expenses have been paid, and (3)
any amount remaining in the Fair Fund has been received by the Commission.
7.18.2 When the Commission has approved the Final Accounting, the staff shall
arrange for the transfer of any amount remaining in the Fair Fund to the U.S.
Treasury, and shall seek an order from the Commission to terminate the Fair
Fund and discharge the Fund Administrator.
7.18.3 Within 10 days of the termination of the Fair Fund, the IDC will provide to the
staff of the Commission an attestation that the Distribution Plan, as approved,
has been implemented.
7.19 Extensions of Deadlines. For good cause shown, the Commission staff may extend
any of the procedural deadlines set forth in this Distribution Plan.

Page 28

7.20 Material Changes in Distribution Plan. The IDC and the Fund Administrator shall
take reasonable and appropriate steps to distribute the Fair Fund according to the
Distribution Plan. The IDC will inform the Commission staff of any changes needed
in the Distribution Plan. Upon agreement with Commission staff, the IDC may
implement immaterial changes to the Distribution Plan to effectuate its general
purposes. If a change is determined to be material by the Commission staff,
Commission approval is required prior to implementation by amending the
Distribution Plan, which may be done upon the motion of any party, the Fund
Administrator, or upon the Commission’s own motion.
7.21 Notice of a Proposed Plan of Distribution and Opportunity for Comment. The Notice
of the Proposed Plan of Distribution and Opportunity for Comment (“Notice”) will be
published in the SEC Docket and on the Commission’s website at
http://www.sec.gov/litigation/fairfundlist.htm. Any person wishing to comment on the
Distribution Plan must do so in writing by submitting their comments to the
Commission within thirty (30) days of the date of the Notice: (a) to the Office of the
Secretary, United States Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, DC 20549-1090; (b) by using the Commission’s Internet comment form
(http://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin.shtml); or (c) by sending an email to rulecomments@sec.gov. Comments submitted by email or via the Commission’s website
should include “Administrative Proceeding File No. 3-12540” in the subject line.
Comments received will be publicly available. Persons should only submit comments
that they wish to make publicly available.

Page 29

Table 1
Summary of Market Timers and Market
Timing Activity by Portfolio [1]
Source: Alger Portfolio Data
(percent of total in parentheses)
Portfolio

Number of Accounts

Volume (in millions) [2]

Balanced
Capital Appreciation
Health Sciences
LargeCap
MidCap
SmallCap

146
303
3
142
198
68

(17.0%)
(35.2%)
(0.3%)
(16.5%)
(23.0%)
(7.9%)

$717
$6,263
$21
$8,838
$11,044
$1,165

(2.6%)
(22.3%)
(0.1%)
(31.5%)
(39.4%)
(4.2%)

Total

860

(100.0%)

$28,049

(100.0%)

Note:
[1] Accounts exclude omnibus accounts and money market portfolios.
[2] Volume is the dollar volume of all buys and sells.

Page 30

Table 2
Summary of Market Timers and Market Timing
Activity by Quarter [1]
Source: Alger Portfolio Data
(percent of total in parentheses)
Year

Quarter

2001
2001
2002
2002
2002
2002
2003
2003
2003
2003

Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4

Total

Number of Accounts

Volume (in millions) [2]

155
207
125
105
70
70
57
48
23
0

(18.0%)
(24.1%)
(14.5%)
(12.2%)
(8.1%)
(8.1%)
(6.6%)
(5.6%)
(2.7%)
(0.0%)

$464
$5,461
$4,636
$3,033
$3,094
$4,309
$2,979
$2,450
$1,503
$120

(1.7%)
(19.5%)
(16.5%)
(10.8%)
(11.0%)
(15.4%)
(10.6%)
(8.7%)
(5.4%)
(0.4%)

860

(100.0%)

$28,049

(100.0%)

Note:
[1] Accounts exclude omnibus accounts and money market portfolios.
[2] Volume is the dollar volume of all buys and sells.

Page 31

Table 3
Regression of Net Equity Purchases on Frequent Traders' Cumulative Cashflow
and Omnibus Cashflows, by Portfolio and Day
Source: Alger Portfolio Data
Balanced

Days (n)
Prior to t

Capital Appreciation

Health Sciences

Large Cap Growth

Mid Cap Growth

Small Cap Growth

Beta

t-stat

Beta

t-stat

Beta

t-stat

Beta

t-stat

Beta

t-stat

Beta

t-stat

1

Timer
Omnibus

0.018
-0.093

0.379
-0.466

0.005
0.052

0.258
0.427

-0.026

-1.420

0.025
0.258

1.625
2.058

0.073
0.088

5.444
0.763

0.113
-0.135

6.046
-1.097

2

Timer
Omnibus

0.059
0.008

1.249
0.038

0.025
0.106

1.341
0.873

-0.037

-2.041

0.063
0.090

4.065
0.728

0.013
-0.084

0.905
-0.706

0.037
0.036

1.894
0.282

3

Timer
Omnibus

-0.004
0.181

-0.076
0.906

-0.019
-0.090

-1.039
-0.740

0.028

1.538

-0.003
-0.096

-0.190
-0.761

0.011
0.223

0.821
1.873

-0.030
0.082

-1.587
0.651

4

Timer
Omnibus

-0.031
-0.001

-0.656
-0.005

-0.006
0.089

-0.343
0.729

0.036

2.032

-0.012
-0.148

-0.737
-1.171

-0.022
0.087

-1.565
0.727

0.012
-0.063

0.654
-0.503

5

Timer
Omnibus

0.093
0.311

1.983
1.563

0.024
0.088

1.302
0.720

-0.017

-0.957

0.002
-0.139

0.151
-1.100

0.001
-0.005

0.094
-0.041

0.050
-0.020

2.606
-0.159

6

Timer
Omnibus

-0.007
0.098

-0.150
0.491

-0.010
-0.115

-0.554
-0.961

-0.018

-0.973

0.000
0.038

0.007
0.302

-0.001
-0.065

-0.039
-0.544

-0.011
0.052

-0.551
0.414

7

Timer
Omnibus

-0.051
-0.217

-1.088
-1.085

0.006
0.199

0.323
1.685

-0.012

-0.689

-0.009
0.173

-0.568
1.389

0.005
0.061

0.361
0.511

-0.002
-0.006

-0.086
-0.049

8

Timer
Omnibus

-0.005
0.101

-0.116
0.501

-0.020
0.018

-1.106
0.152

-0.016

-0.862

-0.012
0.108

-0.792
0.868

0.002
-0.051

0.132
-0.427

-0.023
-0.062

-1.247
-0.503

9

Timer
Omnibus

0.061
-0.005

1.302
-0.026

0.017
-0.123

0.960
-1.049

-0.003

-0.169

0.014
0.010

0.900
0.078

-0.005
-0.206

-0.332
-1.723

0.022
0.051

1.159
0.413

10

Timer
Omnibus

-0.008
-0.079

-0.172
-0.394

-0.001
-0.062

-0.055
-0.526

-0.003

-0.141

0.013
0.279

0.820
2.247

0.005
0.098

0.373
0.817

0.027
-0.054

1.445
-0.433

Note: Regressions are run separately for each portfolio group, on 2 independent variables (Timer and Omnibus) that represent the transactions that occurred n days prior to the net
equity purchase at time t=0. The Omnibus cash flow Health Sciences Portfolio has too few observations to produce meaningful regression results. Significant coefficients are in bold.
Negative significant coefficients are in bold and italics.

Page 32

Table 4
Regression of Net Equity Purchases on Frequent Traders' Cumulative
Cashflow and Omnibus Cashflows, by Portfolio
Source: Alger Portfolio Data
Balanced

Capital
Appreciation

Health Sciences

Large Cap

Mid Cap

Small Cap

-0.0033

-0.0058

0.0162

0.0844

0.1049

0.1028

2

Adjusted R

Beta

t-stat

Beta

t-stat

Beta

t-stat

1.04
1.94
1.10
0.80
2.23
0.77
0.30
0.69
1.43
0.50

0.03
0.05
0.03
0.03
0.05
0.02
0.03
0.00
0.02
0.01

1.49
1.94
0.85
1.03
1.56
0.66
0.84
0.04
0.75
0.24

-0.03
-0.04
0.03
0.04
-0.02
-0.02
-0.01
-0.02
0.00
0.00

-1.43
-2.05
1.54
2.03
-0.96
-0.98
-0.69
-0.87
-0.17
-0.14

Beta

t-stat

Beta

t-stat

Beta

t-stat

Timer Cashflow
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10

0.05
0.11
0.06
0.05
0.13
0.05
0.02
0.04
0.08
0.03

Sum 1-10 Timer Cashflow
F-Stat
3.55
P-value
0.06

1.77
0.18

1.38
0.24

0.08
0.13
0.08
0.05
0.04
0.03
0.02
0.02
0.02
0.01

4.57
6.22
3.61
2.30
1.87
1.29
1.03
0.76
1.20
0.84

12.51
0.00

0.13
0.11
0.10
0.06
0.06
0.05
0.05
0.04
0.01
0.01

7.92
5.53
4.28
2.46
2.39
2.15
2.09
1.57
0.58
0.42

15.34
0.00

0.16
0.07
0.08
0.08
0.09
0.05
0.04
0.00
0.01
0.03

7.16
3.16
3.17
3.07
3.58
2.17
1.52
-0.03
0.57
1.28

24.58
0.00

Omnibus Cashflow
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10

-0.15
-0.03
0.22
-0.04
0.33
0.13
-0.22
0.12
-0.06
-0.09

-0.68
-0.15
1.01
-0.19
1.47
0.59
-0.99
0.57
-0.29
-0.41

0.00
0.09
-0.13
0.06
0.07
-0.13
0.19
0.01
-0.09
-0.09

0.00
0.71
-1.08
0.54
0.56
-1.08
1.59
0.05
-0.76
-0.77

-

-

0.20
0.06
-0.12
-0.18
-0.17
0.03
0.18
0.19
0.11
0.29

1.68
0.46
-0.95
-1.46
-1.39
0.22
1.47
1.56
0.92
2.40

0.07
-0.13
0.22
0.10
-0.04
-0.07
0.09
0.01
-0.18
0.03

0.63
-1.17
1.87
0.89
-0.35
-0.65
0.79
0.11
-1.56
0.25

-0.07
0.08
0.13
0.03
-0.06
-0.03
0.03
-0.09
0.00
-0.08

-0.49
0.59
0.88
0.20
-0.38
-0.21
0.22
-0.60
-0.03
-0.58

Note: Regressions are run separately for each portfolio group, on 20 independent variables that represent the transactions in Timer and Omnibus cashflows that occurred up to
10 days prior to the net equity purchase at time t=0. The omnibus cash flow Health Sciences Portfolio has too few observations to produce meaningful regression results.
Significant coefficients are in bold. Negative significant coefficients are in bold and italics.

Page 33

Table 5
Weighted Average Holding Period of
Market Timers' Short-term Positions
by Portfolio
Source: Alger Portfolio Data
Figures in trading days

Portfolio
Balanced
Capital Appreciation
Health Sciences
Large Cap
Mid Cap
Small Cap

Weighted Holding
Period
4.81
2.60
15.45
2.92
2.38
6.20

Page 34

Table 6
Aggregate Dilution Model by Portfolio and Quarter in Dollar Amount
Class Period: 9/12/01 – 10/15/03
Source: Alger Portfolio Data

Aggregate Dilution Before Interest
Portfolio

Q3 '01

Balanced
Capital Appreciation
Health Sciences
Large Cap
Mid Cap
Small Cap

$
$
$
$
$

Subtotal $

Q4 '01

817
476,795
66,788
(146,410)
190,718

$
$

588,708

Q1 '02

Q2 '02

Q3 '02

$ (295,432) $ (341,330)
$ (3,034,646) $ (1,698,244)
$
(6,212)
$ (2,681,134) $ (933,049)
$
518,577 $ 1,663,687
$ (193,447) $
300,491

Q4 '02

Q1 '03

$
$
$

70,618
2,259,804
1,700,259
1,696,437
474,886

$
(97,210)
$ (3,246,738)
$ (1,749,354)
$ 2,069,396
$
44,685

$

6,202,005

$ (2,979,222) $ (5,692,294) $ (1,008,444) $ (1,891,183) $

$
59,131
$ (1,172,600)
$
(2,088)
$ (751,363)
$
(24,264)

$
$
$
$
$

Q2 '03

(211,578)
562,292
913,916
(487,574)
(15,838)
761,218

$
$

Q3 '03

360,420
3,163,028
2,330,070
3,358,377
1,219,095

$
$
$
$
$
$

52,137
874,125
178,450
302,039
797,255
1,551,243

$ 10,430,989

$

3,755,249

$
$
$

Q4 '03

Total

$
$
$

72,873
264,569
64,993
191

$
(402,427)
$ (1,743,311)
$
172,237
$
212,017
$ 8,783,375
$ 3,547,760

$

402,625

$ 10,569,652

$

Aggregate Dilution Compounded Interest
Portfolio

Q3 '01

Balanced
Capital Appreciation
Health Sciences
Large Cap
Mid Cap
Small Cap

$
$
$
$
$

Subtotal $

Q4 '01

38
21,977
2,725
(7,106)
8,727

$
$

26,361

Q1 '02
$
$

Q2 '02

$
$
$

3,150
95,161
71,423
70,987
18,770

$
$
$

(3,494)
(117,484)
(64,367)
73,738
1,406

$
$
$
$
$
$

$

259,491

$

(110,200) $

(8,006)
(87,102)
(157)
(73,127)
9,962
(6,281)

Q3 '02
$
$
$
$
$

(164,711) $

(7,191)
(37,531)
(17,728)
34,389
5,965

Q4 '02
$
$
$
$
$

(22,096) $

778
(16,560)
1,390
(9,239)
(248)

Q1 '03
$
$
$
$
$

(23,880) $

Q2 '03

(2,345)
4,193
6,376
(6,731)
(293)

$
$

1,201

Q3 '03

$
$
$

2,401
20,273
13,271
20,185
7,514

$
$
$
$
$
$

78
1,562
532
568
1,593
4,611

$

63,644

$

8,945

Q4 '03

Total

-

$
$
$

155
8
0

$
$
$
$
$
$

$

194

$

31

$
-

(14,591)
(115,481)
375
(59,313)
187,786
40,172
38,949

Aggregate Dilution including Compounded Interest
Portfolio

Q3 '01

Balanced
Capital Appreciation
Health Sciences
Large Cap
Mid Cap
Small Cap

$
$
$
$
$

Subtotal $

Q4 '01

855
498,771
69,513
(153,515)
199,446

$
$

615,069

Q1 '02

Q2 '02

Q3 '02

$ (303,438) $ (348,521)
$ (3,121,748) $ (1,735,775)
$
(6,370)
$ (2,754,261) $ (950,777)
$
528,539 $ 1,698,076
$ (199,728) $
306,456

Q4 '02
$
59,908
$ (1,189,160)
$
(698)
$ (760,603)
$
(24,512)

Q1 '03

$
$
$

73,768
2,354,965
1,771,683
1,767,424
493,656

$ (100,703)
$ (3,364,222)
$ (1,813,721)
$ 2,143,134
$
46,090

$
$

$

6,461,496

$ (3,089,422) $ (5,857,005) $ (1,030,540) $ (1,915,063) $

$
$
$

Q2 '03

(213,923)
566,486
920,292
(494,305)
(16,132)
762,419

$
$

Q3 '03

362,820
3,183,300
2,343,341
3,378,562
1,226,609

$
$
$
$
$
$

52,215
875,687
178,982
302,607
798,849
1,555,854

$ 10,494,633

$

3,764,194

$
$
$

Q4 '03

Total

$
$
$

72,904
264,724
65,000
191

$
(417,018)
$ (1,858,791)
$
172,612
$
152,704
$ 8,971,162
$ 3,587,932

$

402,820

$ 10,608,601

$

Note: The Balanced, Capital Appreciation and Health Sciences portfolios are calculated using the LIFO Profits methodology. The Large Cap, Mid Cap, and Small Cap portfolios are calculated using
the Regression Model methodology. Interest is calculated using the short-term Applicable Federal Rate provided monthly by the IRS (Section 1274).

Page 35

Glossary
Fred Alger & Company, Inc.
Fred Alger Management, Inc.
Fred Alger Management, Inc. , Fred Alger & Company, Inc.
Escrow Bank
Bureau of the Fiscal Service
Securities and Exchange Commission
Damasco & Associates
Distribution account established by the Fund Administrator in the
name of and bearing the Taxpayer Identification Number of the Fair
Fund
Distribution Plan for the distribution of the Fair Fund developed by the
Distribution Plan
IDC
Employer Identification Number
EIN
Accountholders who will be compensated through the Distribution
Eligible Accountholders
Plan.
Escrow account established by the Fund Administrator in the name of
Escrow Account
and bearing the Taxpayer Identification Number of the Fair Fund
Market timers not eligible for a distribution according to the
Excluded Investors
Distribution Plan.
Frequently Asked Questions
FAQs
Department of Labor Field Assistance Bulletin No. 2006-01, April 19,
Field Assistance Bulletin
2006
Final Accounting prepared and submitted after the distribution is
Final Accounting
complete and covering all income and all disbursements
Final Approved Distribution Plan The Distribution Plan, once it has been approved by the Commission
Rust Consulting, Inc. (“Rust”) is proposed to serve as Fund
Fund Administrator
Administrator pursuant to Rule 1105 of the Commission’s Rules.
James C. Meehan, Independent Distribution Consultant
IDC
Investment Company Act of 1940
Investment Company Act
Communication that precedes or accompanies distribution payments
Letter
Non-omnibus account in the database in each Alger Fund portfolio for
market timer
which Mr. Meehan identified roundtrip trades within the September 12,
2001 through October 15, 2003 period.
Brokerage firm holding Network accounts
Network Firm
Approach to estimate dilution losses as proposed by Greene and
next day NAV
Hodges (2002)
Omnibus Holder Brokerage Firms Brokerage firm holding Omnibus accounts
Process by which Rust will contact each Omnibus Broker and Network
Outreach Process
Alger Inc.
Alger Management
Alger or the Respondents
Bank
FS
Commission
Damasco
Distribution Account

Page 36

QSF
QSF Account
realized profits
Residual Funds

SAI
Tax Administrator
U.S. Treasury
USPS

firm to obtain account holder information
Qualified Settlement Fund, an IRS term
Using the IRS term, it indicates a Distribution Account, and here it also
indicates the Escrow Account
Approach to estimate dilution losses as proposed by Greene and
Ciccotello (2006)
Includes funds reserved, but not used, for future taxes and related
expenses, distributions from checks that have not been cashed, from
checks that were not delivered or not accepted upon delivery, and tax
refunds for overpayment or for waiver of penalties.
Statement of Additional Information attached to the Alger Fund
prospectuses
Damasco & Associates, Tax Administrator of the Fair Fund
United States Department of the Treasury
United States Postal Service

Page 37

