UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77618 / April 14, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4367 / April 14, 2016
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 32072 / April 14, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-16883
ORDER MAKING FINDINGS AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A
CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER PURSUANT
TO SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, SECTIONS
203(e), 203(f) AND 203(k) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
AND SECTION 9(b) OF THE INVESTMENT
COMPANY ACT OF 1940

In the Matter of
ARTHUR F. JACOB, CPA and
INNOVATIVE BUSINESS
SOLUTIONS, LLC,
Respondents.

I.
On October 5, 2015, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) instituted
proceedings pursuant Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”),
Sections 203(e), 203(f) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”), and
Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”) against Arthur
F. Jacob (“Jacob”) and Innovative Business Solutions, LLC (“IBS”) (collectively, “Respondents”).
II.
Respondents have submitted an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission
has determined to accept. Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings
brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without
admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and
the subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in
Section V., Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Making Findings and Imposing
Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and Desist Order Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, Sections 203(e), 203(f) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940,
and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offer, the Commission finds that
SUMMARY
These proceedings involve violations of the anti-fraud provisions of the federal securities
laws by Respondent Jacob and his company, Respondent IBS, unregistered investment advisers
to about 30 client households with approximately $18 million under management. From
approximately mid-2009 through at least July 2014, Jacob and IBS, which Jacob owns and
controls, engaged in a fraudulent scheme involving material misrepresentations and omissions
and other deceptive devices and practices. Jacob engaged in this scheme in order to obtain and
retain investment advisory clients and thereby collect advisory fees.
For at least five years, Jacob (alone and acting through IBS) routinely made false
statements and omissions to current clients, prospective clients, and others, where he:


concealed his 2003 disbarment and his 2005 suspension from practicing or
appearing before the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”);



misstated to clients the risks and profitability of their investments, including in
investment newsletters Jacob drafted and distributed;



falsely informed clients that he was not required to register as an investment
adviser and failed to disclose that, in fact, he and IBS were required to be
registered as investment advisers with several states; and



provided false information about the advisory services they provided in order
to retain trading authority in clients’ accounts.

Jacob’s and IBS’s false statements and failure to disclose material information was a
breach of their duties as investment advisers to the clients. As a result of their scheme, Jacob and
IBS collected approximately $320,000 in investment advisory fees from their clients.
Jacob asserted his Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination in testimony
taken by the Commission during the Division’s investigation of this matter.
RESPONDENTS
1.
Arthur F. Jacob, age 56, is currently a resident of Orlando, Florida. He resided in
Big Fork, Montana from September 2008 until February 2013, and in Scottsdale, Arizona from
February 2013 until March 2014. He is a CPA licensed in the State of Maryland, and a co-owner
(with his wife) of Innovative Business Solutions, LLC. Jacob was licensed as an attorney by the
State of Maryland until he was disbarred in 2003. In 2005, Jacob was also suspended from
2

practicing before the Internal Revenue Service. Jacob has never been registered as an investment
adviser with the Commission or any State.
2.
Innovative Business Solutions, LLC, is a company co-owned by Jacob and his
wife, incorporated in 2002 in Maryland to provide accounting and tax services to clients. Jacob
and his wife have operated IBS in Maryland, Montana, Arizona, and now in Florida. By mid2009, Jacob also conducted an investment advisory business through IBS. IBS was never
registered with the Commission or any state in any capacity.
FACTS
3.
Jacob’s multi-year fraudulent scheme involved numerous material misstatements
and omissions and various deceptive devices and practices. Jacob engaged in the scheme in order
to obtain and retain clients, and to collect investment advisory fees.
Jacob and IBS Were Investment Advisers and Are Subject To the Anti-Fraud
Provisions of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.
4.
From at least mid-2009 through at least July 2014 (the “relevant period”), Jacob
and IBS acted as investment advisers, providing investment advice and advisory services to
approximately 30 client households.
5.
During the relevant period, Jacob and IBS conducted their investment advisory
business in Montana and had more than 5 investment advisory clients in each of the states of
Maryland and Georgia.
6.
Jacob and IBS managed their clients’ securities accounts, including investment
retirement accounts—such as defined benefit plans, 401(k) plans, profit sharing plans, and
retirement income plans. Many of the clients maintained multiple securities accounts for
themselves, family members, and businesses that Jacob and IBS managed. The accounts had a
total value of approximately $18 million.
7.
From mid-2009 to late 2011, Jacob and his clients held accounts at a Montana
branch of a large firm which is dually registered with the Commission as both an investment
adviser and a broker-dealer (“Firm One”). At Firm One, Jacob’s clients signed “Durable Power
of Attorney / Security Account Limited Discretionary Authorization” forms which gave Jacob
the ability to buy, sell, and trade in the client accounts.
8.
In early 2012, Jacob moved his clients’ accounts to a Florida branch office of a
different large, dually registered firm (“Firm Two”), and later to a third firm. The latter two
firms each ultimately terminated their relationships with Jacob. At Firm Two, Jacob’s clients
similarly signed “Third Party Authorization and Indemnity” forms giving Firm Two
authorization to accept trade instructions from Jacob.
9.

At Firm One and Firm Two, financial advisers or brokers were assigned to
3

Jacob’s clients’ accounts and sometimes discussed with Jacob possible securities transactions.
Jacob, however, was the only one to have discretionary trading authorization over the accounts,
other than the client, and regularly provided trade instructions to the firms where the accounts
were held. Jacob made the ultimate investment decisions for the clients’ accounts, including the
specific securities to be purchased or sold, the timing and amounts of the trades, the prices at
which to buy or sell securities, the investment strategy to be employed and the asset allocation.
10.
Jacob told a client who had recently terminated Jacob’s investment advisory
services that he and IBS had been responsible for the client’s previous trading, not anyone at
Firm One. Specifically, Jacob stated, “[D]on’t come back to me and gripe when I turn out to be
right and/or you can’t react when a trade, etc. needs to be executed. Trust me, [Firm One] didn’t
so [sic] that either and won’t in the future – it was us [Jacob and IBS] doing those profitable
trades and us making the decisions [regarding the client’s investments]–[Firm One] initiated
nothing.”
11.
On a number of occasions, Jacob insisted on asset allocations and securities
transactions that differed from the recommendations of the financial advisers assigned to the
accounts at Firm One and transactions that differed from the recommendations of the broker
assigned to the accounts at Firm Two. For instance, in December 2009, he wrote to two financial
advisers at Firm One—copying their supervisor— after they had recommended against leaving a
large percentage of the clients’ accounts in cash. Jacob admonished that he had represented the
clients at issue “as an attorney, certified public accountant, and adviser for numerous years. . . .”
He later noted that he “resent[ed] the inference [his] investment philosophy, strategy, or asset
allocation [was] inappropriate.”
12.
Jacob had direct access to his clients’ account statements. He kept track of the
profits and losses in clients’ accounts and provided the clients with analyses about their
investment portfolios. For instance, in March 2009, Jacob provided an analysis to one client in
which he explained the current market value of the invested assets, the change in the market
value of those assets, and projected assets over a ten-year period. He also provided these types
of analyses to clients throughout the relevant time period.
13.
Jacob referred to himself as an investment adviser and described the services he
provided as managing investment accounts in communications with clients, prospective clients
and financial institutions. For instance, in a December 28, 2011 email to a law firm in reference
to one of his clients’ accounts, Jacob stated, “I am the Investment Advisor to that account.”
14.
In addition, on July 20, 2010, Jacob emailed a prospective client and stated,
“Investment Management Services are separate from the on-going monthly
accounting/tax/consulting fee….We are on-line with [Firm One] and actively manage the
investment accounts, direct trading activity, establish targets, and supply monthly and quarterly,
readable, reports and analyses.”
15.
In another example, in late 2011, Jacob sent multiple emails to Firm Two,
copying his clients, in which he indicated that in order to open the clients’ accounts at Firm Two
4

he would require “Internet access to the accounts . . . as the Investment Adviser … [and]
Authorization to serve as the Investment Adviser for these accounts such that all investment
decisions are made with unanimous consent of you and I.”
16.
Throughout the relevant period Jacob and IBS issued invoices for their investment
advisory services which were separate and distinct from invoices they issued to clients for
accounting, tax, and other consulting services.
17.
The investment advisory services Jacob and IBS provided were not solely
incidental to the accounting and tax services IBS and Jacob provided during the relevant period.
18.
Jacob also routinely issued to clients email newsletters that discussed his
investment strategies, his outlook on market conditions, and the purported profitability of clients’
portfolios; and Jacob advised his clients where and when to move the investment accounts that
Jacob managed.
19.
The investment advisory fees Jacob and IBS charged usually included a
“performance fee” which was typically discounted from 2% to 1% of the managed portfolio.
20.
As investment advisers, Jacob and IBS owed to their clients an affirmative duty of
utmost good faith, and full and fair disclosure of all material facts, as well as an affirmative
obligation to employ reasonable care to avoid misleading their clients.
21.
During the relevant period, Jacob and IBS collected approximately $320,000 for
providing investment advisory services. Jacob and IBS also collected in excess of $2 million for
providing unrelated accounting, tax and consulting services to the same clients.
Jacob Concealed and Misrepresented His Disciplinary History and Touted His
Credentials as an Attorney in Furtherance of His Scheme.
22.
Jacob was an attorney licensed to practice law in the State of Maryland from
December 1989 until July 2003, when he was disbarred. In connection with the Maryland
Attorney Grievance Commission’s petition for disciplinary or remedial action, the Circuit Court
of Baltimore County, Maryland held a five-day evidentiary hearing and issued a 32-page
decision finding that Jacob had violated multiple rules of professional conduct. Specifically, the
Circuit Court found that Jacob misappropriated at least $30,000 in client funds, charged
excessive fees, made numerous false statements under oath, knowingly prepared and filed false
tax returns on behalf of a client, and willfully violated a court order.
23.
The Circuit Court’s findings went to the Court of Appeals of Maryland for
review. Rather than file exceptions to those findings, Jacob signed an affidavit acknowledging
that the Circuit Court held that there was sufficient evidence to find that Jacob committed
misconduct and consented to disbarment, pursuant to the terms of a Joint Petition for
Disbarment.
24.

During the relevant period, despite his disbarment, Jacob described himself as an
5

attorney when extolling his abilities as an investment adviser to several clients and prospective
clients; and he did so without disclosing his disbarment or the misconduct leading to it.
25.
For example, on April 30, 2009, Jacob touted his qualifications in an email to a
retired doctor who later became an advisory client of IBS and stated, “In my case, I know the
results when I ‘buy’ and not when I am forced to ‘sell’—which is what happens when a defense
attorney trained as an auditor manages money—I ask no question I don’t already know the
answer to and I’ve hedged the bet on both sides of the balance sheet.” Jacob forwarded this email
to two other clients.
26.
Also, on October 3, 2009, Jacob described himself to a prospective client as
having “20-years experience as a tax/defense lawyer,” and as rendering advice in the areas of
“tax/financial/transition/estate planning, asset protection, and legal matters” to clients. On
October 13, 2009, Jacob followed-up with the prospective client and sent an email describing the
benefits of his services as follows: “Available 24/7, having investment advisers who understand,
and work with the tax, pension, and legal issues and having a CPA legal consultant (who can
also serve as the [third party agent]) who knows the investment world is a stellar advantage.”
27.
In addition, on March 31, 2013, Jacob sent a solicitation email in which he wrote,
“By way of introduction, I am both [sic] a Certified Public Accountant, an Attorney-at-Law (now
retired and non-practicing), and an Accredited Tax Adviser. While I must make the distinction
between the public accounting practice and the performance of legal services, on a day-to-day
basis there’s no real difference.”
28.
On at least one occasion, when specifically confronted about his reasons for
leaving the practice of law, Jacob lied. In an August 2013 email to his clients, following a report
that he had had been disbarred, Jacob wrote:
Yes, I quit practicing law. In mid-2002, I decided to no longer
actively practice; it was becoming too time consuming, too
expensive to maintain a dual-practice, and it was not enjoyable.
My skills were better allocated to the financial, accounting, and tax
areas, where [my wife] and I shined. In 2004, knowing I would be
departing Maryland and never doing legal work there again, I
resigned from the Maryland Bar – it was knowing and voluntary, it
was my decision, and under Maryland Law it’s called a “Consent
to Disbarment.” In short, at that time, I wanted no part of the b.s.
of being a lawyer.
29.
Jacob failed to disclose to clients that a court found he had engaged in sustained
misconduct, during his performance of client services that are strikingly similar to those he
provided for investment advisory clients during the relevant period. As a fiduciary and as the
manager of their retirement assets, such information regarding prior misconduct clearly would
have been material to Jacob and IBS’s clients and prospective clients.

6

30.
In addition, Jacob provided tax advice to his investment advisory clients without
disclosing to them that in March 2005, he was suspended indefinitely from practicing before the
IRS based on his prior disbarment from the Maryland bar. Under the IRS suspension, Jacob was
prohibited from, among other things, participating in presentations to the IRS relating to a
taxpayer’s rights, privileges or liabilities, including preparing documents and communicating
with the IRS on behalf of a taxpayer.1 Jacob failed to disclose this suspension to his advisory
clients. Indeed, in violation of the suspension order, Jacob continued to engage in activities in
which he represented advisory clients before the IRS.
Jacob Misrepresented And Failed To Disclose The Risks Associated With Both The
Specific Securities He Purchased For His Clients’ Accounts And His Overall
Investment Strategy.
31.
In approximately May 2010, after discussing with the financial advisers at Firm
One, Jacob decided to purchase shares of Proshares Short S&P500 (“SH”) and Proshares Short
Russell2000 (“RWM”) in over 25 of his clients’ accounts. SH and RWM are single-inverse
Exchange Traded Funds (“ETF”). SH seeks daily investment results that correspond to the
inverse of the daily performance of the S&P 500 index. RWM seeks daily investment results
that correspond to the inverse of the daily performance of the Russell 2000 index.
32.
Prior to placing the trades in these ETFs, Jacob signed Firm One’s “Client
Disclosure Notice Regarding Single-Inverse ETFs,” with respect to trades placed in his own
accounts acknowledging that he understood the risks of holding these ETFs longer than one
trading session (typically, one day), including the possible loss of all or a portion of the amount
invested, and agreeing that the ETFs were to be purchased only as a hedge against a portfolio’s
exposure to the same index or benchmark. Jacob, however, failed to disclose to clients the
warnings in the Client Disclosure Notice provided to him by Firm One.
33.
Instead, Jacob immediately purchased SH and RWM in client accounts for
speculation—i.e., not as a hedge—as his clients did not own securities related to the S&P 500
index or the Russell 2000.
34.
Jacob had most of his clients hold these positions for years, despite being
informed in the Client Disclosure Notice he signed that:

1



the performance of single-inverse ETFs over periods longer than one day can
differ significantly from their reference index or benchmark;



they are unsuitable for investors who plan to hold them for longer than one
trading session unless used as part of a trading or hedging strategy; and



the risks associated with investing in single-inverse ETFs include the possible
loss of all or a portion of the amount invested.

See Treasury Department Circular 230, 31 CFR Section 10.2(a)(4).

7

35.
When Jacob sold the positions for many of his clients in mid-2013, his clients’
investments in these positions had lost nearly 50% of their original purchase price.
36.
Similarly, Jacob bought and held long-term another highly volatile exchangetraded product (“ETP”) in clients’ accounts: the Barclays Bank PLC iPath S&P 500 VIX ShortTerm Futures ETN (“VXX”). The pricing supplement to the VXX prospectus explains that
VXX was designed to provide exposure to stock market volatility through futures contracts on
the CBOE Volatility Index (“VIX”), which do not necessarily track the performance of the VIX
and therefore may not benefit from increases in the level of the VIX. It further explains that
VXX may be subject to unforeseen volatility. Barclays’s investor materials state that VXX is
riskier than ordinary unsecured debt securities and involves significant risks, including possible
loss of principal.
37.
Jacob purchased VXX in clients’ accounts in March 2010, and again in the May
through July 2010 time period. Contrary to representations made by Jacob in March 2010 about
maintaining a short-term strategy with predictable profits, he held the VXX positions in clients’
accounts for years, even though the positions steadily declined until they lost almost all of their
value.
38.
Again, Jacob failed to disclose the risks of VXX to clients. And, investors’ losses
in VXX totaled more than $630,000 as of January 2014.
39.
On March 23, 2010, in response to a client’s expression that he was “a little
concerned with this VXX purchase” and noting that “[i]t seems to continue to nosedive,” Jacob
stated:
It’s a long-term play on long-term volatility. On the decline, it
drops linearly downward. When it recovers it recovers
geometrically upward.
Each of these assertions was false.
40.
Jacob was informed that an investment in VXX was speculative. However, Jacob
failed to disclose this fact to his clients. Instead, Jacob misrepresented, from 2011 through 2014,
that VXX acted like “an insurance policy” in their portfolios, which would “pay off” if the
equities market went down. For example:


On January 6, 2011, Jacob sent an email to his clients, stating, “[W]e have also
‘insured’ your portfolio from disaster by holding positions in index shorts (i.e.,
VXX); while that investment has declined substantially, the truth is we hope
that insurance never pays off, but like life insurance it’s there to protect you
just-in-case.”

8



On January 20, 2011, in response to a client’s complaint that his account had
declined $9,000 in 6 months, Jacob stated:
The VXX is the culprit and remains in the accounts as the
ultimate life insurance policy; sit tight for the ride, it will
prove to be the right decision in the long-run…. The cashflow from the options and income-yielding securities is
doing well. Stay focused on that and be happy the ultimate
insurance [VXX] is in-place.

41.
Despite purchasing and holding long-term these high-risk investments (which
resulted in significant losses), Jacob repeatedly made false representations to clients regarding
the trading strategy he employed in the clients’ accounts and the profitability of the securities
held in the clients’ accounts. He repeatedly misrepresented that his trading strategy was safe,
involved little or no risk, and produced guaranteed, predictable profits when a number of the
investments he purchased and held were high risk and volatile. For example:


On June 18, 2010, Jacob misrepresented in an email to clients that the purchase
of the ETFs discussed above was part of a strategy “so profits can be made on
what’s inevitable rather than what’s speculative.”



On August 5, 2010, Jacob falsely assured a client that by 2016, his portfolio’s
value would increase by a factor of seven or eight by virtue of holding VXX,
SH and RWM in his account. Specifically, Jacob stated, “When the ‘market’
crashes, as is inevitable, we have enough VXX, SH, and RWM to take your
portfolio up by a factor of 7-8 fold—that’s 7 times what it’s worth right now.”



On June 6, 2012, Jacob misrepresented to a client,
[W]e shifted the portfolio to [Firm One] with a more active
but risk-averse management style (you can afford NO risk),
leaving the bulk of the portfolio in cash and only deploying
it when gains were assured (i.e., thru high-yield investments,
options, and market orders). During the period of market
volatility, your portfolio did well, taking no extraordinary
risk.



On January 30, 2014, Jacob misrepresented to another client,
[T]he portfolio is managed with caution on the upside and
minimization of risk on the downside. Despite the crushing
economic problems in the world, such a methodology allows
us to steadily profit while the market is irrationally reaching
new highs, generate income from a fixed-income strategy
(which works regardless of market movement), and protect
9

ourselves with calls, insurance, and hedges as things become
more unsustainable.
42.
Jacob had no reasonable basis to predict the long-term performance of these
exchange traded products, which he knew or was reckless in not knowing were risky and
speculative and which, if held long-term, would tend to result in losses.
Jacob Made False and Misleading Statements To Clients About the Profitability of
His Investment Strategies.
43.
In addition, Jacob repeatedly misrepresented that his investment strategy was
profitable and minimized the significance of losses – referring to them as “holding losses” –
while such losses in the clients’ accounts grew steadily and significantly throughout the relevant
period. Jacob knew, was reckless in not knowing, or should have known that his statements
were false and misleading because, among other things, he had direct access to his clients’
account statements and kept track of the profits and losses in each of his clients’ accounts. For
example:


On March 15, 2010, Jacob sent an email to all his clients, falsely stating,
[W]e don’t purchase any investment without knowing how,
when, and at what profit it will be sold…. One thing is
certain – one-hundred-percent of our buy/sell/Call Premium
trades have been at a profit and, since embarking on this
strategy (and, for many relocating your money out West), no
account has lost money.
Notably, as of February 28, 2010, the month-end prior to this email,
approximately 20 client households held unrealized losses in accounts.



On January 27, 2013, Jacob represented to a client, “The investment results are
in positive territory, the accounts are yielding a healthy annual cash-flow, and
every sale effected has generated total gains of between 16-28%.” This
statement was misleading because, as of December 31, 2012, this client had
unrealized losses totaling over $49,000 in three ETPs held in two accounts with
total assets of nearly $308,000.



Almost a year later, on January 10, 2014, Jacob similarly told this client, “The
investment results are in positive territory, the accounts are yielding a healthy
annual cash-flow, and every sale effected has generated profits.” This was
misleading in that as of December 31, 2013, this client had unrealized losses in
one ETP of about $33,000 and realized losses of over $16,000 after the July 25,
2013 sale of the other two ETPs.



On November 5 and 6, 2013, Jacob again falsely assured clients that:
10

While we are sitting on several ‘holding [unrealized] losses’,
they are income-oriented which tends to decline sharply
during times of market upswings. However, our goal
therewith is to secure a steady, long-term source of continual
new cash-flow, even accepting wide value fluctuations, since
there is, literally, nothing to invest in which will directly
track the market’s overall, but manipulated, increases….
[B]ecause the holding [unrealized] losses are comprised of
long-term holds (e.g., silver, mining, energy, and financials –
who’s long term prognosis is solid), we are not very
concerned.
Jacob Provided False Information to Firm Two in Order to Purchase Securities in
Clients’ Accounts.
44.
In 2012, Jacob provided false information to Firm Two, so that he could continue
to trade in his clients’ accounts.
45.
Shortly after the accounts were transferred from Firm One to Firm Two, Firm
Two employees discussed that Jacob may be acting as an unregistered investment adviser and
communicated to Jacob that he needed to provide a legal opinion that he was in compliance with
each state where the clients were located. Firm Two told Jacob that if he did not provide the
legal opinion, Firm Two would not permit Jacob, who had trading authorization on the accounts,
to purchase any securities in his clients’ accounts.
46.
In July 2012, Jacob provided to Firm Two a letter he drafted, falsely describing
the services he and IBS provided. The letter included the following false statements:


Jacob (and IBS) did not provide investment advice for compensation;



the investment-related services Jacob and IBS performed were billed on the same
basis as fees for all other services;



Jacob and IBS did not select specific investments;



Jacob and IBS did not decide the timing of buys and sells;



Jacob and IBS did not make decisions regarding the general portfolio structure or
the specific composition of the investment portfolios;



Jacob and IBS did not publish an investment newsletter; and,



Jacob and IBS did not hold themselves out to the public as an investment adviser.
11

In fact, as described elsewhere herein, Jacob and IBS provided all of these services and
held themselves out as investment advisers.
47.
Jacob also submitted to Firm Two an attorney opinion letter, which was based on
the false assertions he made in the July 2012 letter. Jacob’s counsel stated that, assuming
Jacob’s description of the services Jacob and IBS provided to clients was accurate, Jacob did not
fit within the definition of “investment adviser.” After Firm Two received the legal opinion,
Jacob was permitted to place orders to purchase securities in clients’ accounts, and he continued
receiving advisory fees for managing the accounts.
Jacob Misrepresented To Clients That He Was Not Required To Register As An
Investment Adviser.
48.
In an August 14, 2013 email from Jacob to his clients, Jacob falsely claimed that
he was not required to register as an investment adviser with any state, despite being required to
register as an investment adviser under the laws of Montana, Georgia, and Maryland.
Specifically, Jacob stated:
We did NOT have to hold any sort of “securities license” or
“registration” to do this. . . .This was well-researched before we
embarked on this path in early-2009 and was validated by an
independent lawyer. In fact, [Firm Two’s] Legal Compliance
Department verified this, in painstaking detail, when we moved
accounts there, hence some of the delay getting things firmly
established. If you would like a copy, let me know.
49.
Jacob failed to disclose the material fact that the “independent” lawyer who
“validated” this conclusion relied solely on the letter from Jacob to Firm Two, in which Jacob
falsely described his and IBS’s services.
50.
Jacob also failed to disclose to the advisory clients that he and IBS were required to
be registered as investment advisers in several states.
TOLLING AGREEMENT
51.
Respondents entered into tolling agreements in which they agreed to toll any
applicable statute of limitations period up to and including March 10, 2015, through October 5,
2015.
VIOLATIONS
52.
As a result of the conduct described above, IBS and Jacob willfully violated
Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder. Section 10(b) of the Exchange
Act makes it unlawful for any person to use or employ, in connection with the purchase or sale
of any security any manipulative or deceptive device or contrivance in contravention of such
12

rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe. Rule 10b-5 under the Exchange Act
makes it unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, (a) to employ any device scheme, or
artifice to defraud, (b) to make any untrue statement of material fact or omit to state a material
fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which
they were made, not misleading, and (c) to engage in any act, practice, or course of business
which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon any person.
53.
As a result of the conduct described above, IBS and Jacob willfully violated
Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act. Section 206(1) of the Advisers Act prohibits
any investment adviser from employing any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud any client or
prospective client, and Section 206(2) of the Advisers Act prohibits any investment adviser from
engaging in any transaction, practice, or course of business which operates as a fraud or deceit
upon any client or prospective client.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondents Jacob’s and IBS’s Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Sections 203(e), 203(f) and
203(k) of the Advisers Act, and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act, it is hereby
ORDERED that:
A.
Respondents Jacob and IBS cease and desist from committing or causing any
violations and any future violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5
thereunder, and Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act.
B.

Respondent Jacob be, and hereby is:
barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser,
municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally
recognized statistical rating organization; and
prohibited from serving or acting as an employee, officer, director, member
of an advisory board, investment adviser or depositor of, or principal
underwriter for, a registered investment company or affiliated person of such
investment adviser, depositor, or principal underwriter.

C.

Respondent IBS is censured.

D.
Any reapplication for association by Respondent Jacob will be subject to the
applicable laws and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned
upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the
following: (a) any disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission
has fully or partially waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the
13

conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization
arbitration award to a customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for
the Commission order; and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or
not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order.
E.
Respondents Jacob and IBS shall, within 15 days of the entry of this Order, pay
jointly and severally, disgorgement of $320,000.00 and prejudgment interest of $37,986.98 to the
Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States
Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If timely payment is not made, additional
interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600.
F.
Respondent Jacob shall, within 15 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money
penalty in the amount of $160,000.00 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to
the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If
timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717.
G.

Payment must be made in one of the following ways:
(1)

Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the Commission,
which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon
request;

(2)

Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
Arthur F. Jacob and Innovative Business Solutions, LLC as Respondents in these proceedings, and
the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be
sent to Antonia Chion, Associate Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange
Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549-5720B SP2.
H.
Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondents agree that in any Related Investor
Action, they shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall they benefit by, offset or reduction of
14

any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondents’ payment of a civil
penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a
Penalty Offset, Respondents agree that they shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order
granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount of
the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall not be
deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil
penalty imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action”
means a private damages action brought against Respondents by or on behalf of one or more
investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the
Commission in this proceeding.
V.
It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by
Respondents, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other
amounts due by Respondents under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree
or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by
Respondents of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set
forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19).

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

15

