UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77485 / March 31, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17027

In the Matter of
KEVIN I. ZINN,

ORDER MAKING FINDINGS AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Respondent.

I.
On December 23, 2015, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”)
previously instituted public administrative proceedings against Kevin I. Zinn (“Zinn” or
“Respondent”) pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange
Act”). The Commission now deems it appropriate and in the public interest to enter this Order
Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”).
II.
Respondent has submitted an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has
determined to accept. Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings
brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent
admits the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings and
admits the findings in Sections III.B.2-4 below, and consents to the entry of this Order, as set forth
below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
A.

RESPONDENT

1.
From May 2011 to approximately March 2013, Respondent acted as an
unregistered broker. Specifically, Respondent solicited investors through the phone and other
means to make investments in companies that purportedly bought and sold iron ore from Mexico
and processed copper and other minerals in Utah. Respondent used several companies to solicit
funds from investors: Global Solutions and Acquisitions, LLC, Global Solutions and Acquisitions
Management, LLC (“GSAM”), and Consolidated Copper and Metals, Inc. Respondent was the

managing member of GSAM. Respondent solicited money from investors by making materially
false and fraudulent representations, and by concealing and omitting material facts concerning,
among other things, the profitability of the investments offered, and the misappropriation of money
from investors for the benefit of Respondent and his sales people. Specifically, Respondent
misrepresented to the investors that their respective funds would be invested in an investment
opportunity for a short period of time and would generate profits ranging from 5% to 15%.
Furthermore, Respondent misappropriated funds and spent investor money on personal expenses.
Respondent hired sales people, gave them leads of people to call and written sales pitches, and paid
them for their solicitation efforts. Respondent, 46 years old, is currently incarcerated at the FCI
Fort Dix in Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurt, New Jersey.
B.

ENTRY OF THE RESPONDENT’S CRIMINAL CONVICTION

2.
On October 29, 2014, Zinn entered a guilty plea in the United States District
Court for the Southern District of Florida to one count of conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud
in violation of Title 18 of the United States Code, Section 1349 in connection with his involvement
in an investment scheme that raised approximately $1.1 million from at least 51 individuals. U.S.
v. Kevin I. Zinn, Case No. 0:14CR60213-Cohn-1 (S.D. Fla. Sep. 4, 2014).
3.
Count I of the Indictment to which Zinn pled guilty alleged, inter alia, that
Zinn, knowingly, and with an intent to defraud, devised and intended to devise, a scheme and
artifice to defraud and to obtain money and property by means of materially false and fraudulent
pretenses, representations and promises, knowing that they were false and fraudulent when made,
and for the purpose of executing such scheme and artifice, knowingly caused to be delivered
certain mail matter by the United States Postal Service and any private and commercial interstate
carrier, including investors’ checks, and certain wire communications in interstate commerce.
4.
On January 8, 2015, the United States District Court for the Southern
District of Florida entered a personal forfeiture money judgment in the amount of $1,114,939.00
against Respondent. On January 9, 2015, the Court sentenced Respondent to 63 months in prison
and 3 years of supervised release. Respondent also was ordered to pay restitution in the amount of
$920,978.38.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest
to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Zinn’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, that
Respondent Zinn be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment
adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized
statistical rating organization; and
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent Zinn be, and hereby is
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter,
finder, consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer

2

for purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce
the purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

