UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77253 / February 29, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4346 / February 29, 2016
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 32012 / February 29, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17139
ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
AND CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 15(b) AND 21C
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934, SECTION 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
AND SECTION 9(b) OF THE INVESTMENT
COMPANY ACT OF 1940, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL
SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-AND-DESIST
ORDER

In the Matter of
MAXIMILLIAN SANTOS,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted pursuant to Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange
Act”), Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”), and Section 9(b) of
the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”) against Maximillian Santos
(“Respondent” or “Santos”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these

proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondent consents
to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings pursuant to
Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Section 203(f) of the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940, and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, Making Findings,
and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
Summary
From at least January 2005 through January 2012, Santos, who was employed as a
registered representative at a dually registered broker-dealer and investment adviser (the “BrokerDealer”) during the relevant time period, shared confidential information pertaining to at least 14 of
his customers’ accounts with an outside third party without his customers’ knowledge or consent.
The outside third party had previously been a registered representative at the Broker-Dealer; when
the outside third party left the firm in 2005 after an adverse National Association of Securities
Dealers disciplinary proceeding, Santos inherited many of his accounts and maintained a personal
and professional relationship with him. Santos shared this information—which consisted of account
holdings in particular stocks, cash balances, and certain trade activity, among other items—
primarily through his personal email account. In addition, throughout 2012 and 2013, Santos used
his personal email address to conduct official business and to service a customer’s account,
including sending wire instructions, stock research reports and stock positions to the customer.
Respondent
Santos was employed as a registered representative by the Broker-Dealer during the relevant
period and held Series 7, 9, 10 and 24 licenses. The Broker-Dealer terminated him on or about June
25, 2014 for sharing confidential customer information with an outside third party while utilizing a
personal email address. Santos, 38 years old, is a resident of Queens, New York.
Background
1.
From at least 2005 through January 2012, Santos shared confidential information
pertaining to at least 14 of his customers’ accounts with an outside third party. Using a personal
email address instead of the email address provided by the Broker-Dealer, Santos sent certain
customers’ account holdings, cash balances and reports of trade activity, among other nonpublic
personal information, to the nonaffiliated third party without the customers’ knowledge or consent,
and without those customers having been given notice of and an opportunity to opt out of the
disclosures pursuant to Regulation S-P.
2.
The outside third party with whom Santos shared his customers’ confidential
information had previously worked as a registered representative at the Broker-Dealer, and had left
the firm in 2005 after an NASD arbitrator found that he had engaged in unauthorized trading in a
2

customer’s account. At that time, Santos took over most of the outside third party’s accounts.
After his departure from the Broker-Dealer, the outside third party pursued interests in private
equity and, during the relevant period, requested periodically from Santos information about his
former customers’ accounts.
3.
Santos deliberately used a personal email account when communicating with the
outside third party, including communicating confidential customer information, to avoid using the
outside third party’s name in emails sent using the Broker-Dealer’s email system. Knowing that
the Broker-Dealer blocked access via firm computers to personal email accounts, Santos accessed
his personal email account from a personal mobile phone while in the office.
4.
Throughout this time period, Santos would also periodically email information
about his customers’ accounts from his work email account to his personal email account, such as
stock positions and, on at least one occasion, copies of a customer’s passport, taking no precautions
to safeguard the security of the data that he was emailing to himself.
5.
In addition, on several occasions in 2012 and 2013, Santos used his personal email
account to conduct official business and to service a customer’s account. Among other things,
Santos used a personal email address to send wire instructions to the customer; send the customer a
stock research report; confirm the customer’s position in a certain security; and field a question
from the customer regarding specific trades and the scope of Santos’s authorization to place those
trades.
6.
Regulation S-P Rules 7(a)(1) and 10(a)(1), 17 C.F.R. §§ 248.7(a)(1) and 10(a)(1),
generally prohibit a broker-dealer from disclosing nonpublic personal information about a
customer to a nonaffiliated third party unless the broker-dealer has provided the customer a clear,
conspicuous, and accurate opt out notice and a reasonable opportunity to opt out of the disclosure
before disclosing the information. As a result of the conduct described above, the Broker-Dealer
violated, and Santos willfully aided and abetted and caused the Broker-Dealer’s violations of,
Regulation S-P Rules 7(a)(1) and 10(a)(1) when Santos disclosed nonpublic personal information
about his customers to a nonaffiliated third party while failing to provide a clear and conspicuous
notice to those customers that accurately explained the right to opt out under Regulation S-P Rule
10.
7.
Exchange Act Section 17(a)(1) and Rule 17a-4(b) require that broker-dealers
registered with the Commission maintain and preserve certain books and records. Rule 17a4(b)(4) requires broker-dealers to preserve for a period of at least three years “[o]riginals of all
communications received and copies of all communications sent ... relating to its business as such .
. . ." As a result of the conduct described above, the Broker-Dealer violated, and Santos willfully
aided and abetted and caused the Broker-Dealer’s violations of, Section 17(a)(1) and Rule 17a4(b)(4) by failing to preserve communications sent by Santos through his personal email account in
which he conducted official business, including his servicing of a customer account.

3

IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate, and in the public interest,
to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Santos’s Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Exchange Act, Section 203(f) of
the Advisers Act, and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Respondent Santos cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and
any future violations of Rules 7(a)(1) and 10(a)(1) of Regulation S-P and Exchange Act Section
17(a)(1) and Rule 17a-4(b)(4) thereunder.
B.

Respondent Santos be, and hereby is:
1.

suspended from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser,
municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or
nationally recognized statistical rating organization for a period of six (6)
months, effective on the second Monday following entry of this Order;

2.

prohibited from serving or acting as an employee, officer, director,
member of an advisory board, investment adviser or depositor of, or
principal underwriter for, a registered investment company or affiliated
person of such investment adviser, depositor, or principal underwriter for a
period of six (6) months, effective on the second Monday following entry
of this Order; and

3.

suspended from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including:
acting as a promoter, finder, consultant, agent or other person who
engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for purposes of the
issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce
the purchase or sale of any penny stock, for a period of six (6) months,
effective on the second Monday following entry of this Order.

C.
Respondent Santos shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil
money penalty in the amount of $75,000.00 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for
transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section
21F(g)(3). If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C.
§3717. Payment must be made in one of the following ways:
(1)

Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which
will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

(2)

Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or
4

(3)

Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:
Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
Santos as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of
the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Scott W. Friestad, Division of
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., NE, Washington, DC 20549-5010.
D.
Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor
Action, he shall not argue that he is entitled to, nor shall he benefit by, offset or reduction of any
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil
penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset"). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a
Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that he shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting
the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the
Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall not be deemed
an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty
imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action" means a
private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based
on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this
proceeding.

5

V.
It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by
Respondent, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other
amounts due by Respondent under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree
or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by
Respondent of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set
forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19).

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

6

