UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77257 / March 1, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17141

In the Matter of

ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-ANDDESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT
TO SECTION 21C OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934, MAKING FINDINGS, AND
IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST
ORDER

PATRICIA ZAJICK
METZLER, DANIEL P.
METZLER, and DONALD C.
ZAJICK
Respondents.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate
that cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Patricia Zajick Metzler
(“Patricia”), Daniel P. Metzler (“Daniel”), and Donald C. Zajick (“Zajick”) (collectively,
“Respondents”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted
Offers of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.
Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on
behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or
denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the
subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in
Section V, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist
Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making
Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds1 that:
Summary
1.
This matter involves insider trading by Respondents in the securities of
GSI Commerce, Inc. (“GSI”) in advance of the March 28, 2011 announcement that eBay,
Inc. (“EBAY”) had agreed to acquire GSI.
2.
In the months prior to the March 28, 2011 announcement, Patricia
misappropriated information about the acquisition of GSI from her friend, Individual A,
who was married to a GSI employee at the time. Individual A provided Patricia with
material nonpublic information in the context of their relationship of trust and
confidence. Patricia then tipped others who traded based on the information including
her husband, Daniel, her father, Zajick, and her good friend, Individual B. Daniel then
also tipped his good friend, Individual C, about the upcoming acquisition of GSI and
Individual C traded on the basis of that information.
3.
As a result of Patricia’s improper use of the insider information
misappropriated from Individual A, Respondents and the additional tippees of Patricia
and Daniel Metzler garnered trading profits of $161,111.
4.
By virtue of this conduct, Respondents violated Section 10(b) of the
Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.
Respondents
5.
Patricia Zajick Metzler, age 44 resides in Phoenixville, PA. During the
relevant time period, Patricia was a principal at a recruiting firm in Wayne, PA and
married to Daniel Metzler. Patricia is also the daughter of Donald Zajick.
6.
Daniel P. Metzler, age 44, resides in Phoenixville, PA. During the
relevant time period, Daniel was Vice President of Sales and Marketing at a consulting
firm in the medical education industry in Conshohocken, PA.
7.
Donald C. Zajick, age 64, resides in Collegeville, PA. During the relevant
time period, Zajick owned a machinery equipment rental company in Conshohocken, PA.

1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.

2

Other Relevant Parties
8.
GSI Commerce, Inc., an e-commerce company, was during the relevant
time period headquartered in King of Prussia, PA. Its common stock was registered with
the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act until after it was acquired
by EBAY. GSI’s common stock traded on the NASDAQ (former ticker symbol GSIC)
and options on GSI’s stock traded on multiple U.S. options exchanges.
9.
Individual A resides in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Individual A
was married to a GSI employee and resided in Pennsylvania during the relevant time
period.
10.
Individual B resides in Philadelphia, PA. During the relevant time period,
Individual B was a good friend of Patricia Metzler.
11.
Individual C resides in Plymouth Meeting, PA. During the relevant time
period, Individual C was a good friend of Daniel Metzler.
Facts
12.
Individual A first learned of the possible acquisition of GSI by EBAY
from Individual A’s spouse, a GSI employee who possessed material nonpublic
information concerning GSI’s operations and management, on or about January 30, 2011.
Individual A knew that the information about the possible acquisition of GSI by EBAY
was material and nonpublic, and that Individual A had an obligation to maintain the
confidentiality of the information.
13.
Individual A and Patricia have a long-standing relationship of trust and
confidence built on years of sharing personal and professional confidences about their
lives which they understood were to be maintained confidentially. Patricia and her
husband, Daniel, had also been friends with Individual A’s husband for many years prior
to 2011 and knew of GSI.
14.
During conversations on or around February 21, 2011, Individual A told
Patricia in confidence about the upcoming acquisition of GSI. Patricia understood as
Individual A’s friend that the information she received from Individual A was
confidential.
15.
Following her conversations with Individual A, Patricia shared the
material nonpublic information regarding the upcoming GSI acquisition, and the fact that
she had learned that information from Individual A, with her husband, Daniel, her father,
Zajick, and her good friend, Individual B, with the expectation that they would trade
based on it and obtained a personal benefit.

3

16.
On March 7, 2011, Zajick purchased 10,000 shares of GSI in his
brokerage account on the basis of the material nonpublic information about the
acquisition that Patricia had communicated to him.
17.
On March 8, 2011, Daniel and Patricia purchased 5,000 shares of GSI in a
jointly owned brokerage account on the basis of the material nonpublic information about
the acquisition that Patricia had learned from Individual A.
18.
On March 15, 2011, Individual B purchased 100 shares of GSI in his
brokerage account on the basis of the material nonpublic information about the
acquisition that Patricia had communicated to him.
19.
On or about March 24, 2011, Daniel told his good friend, Individual C,
about the upcoming acquisition of GSI with the expectation that Individual C would trade
based on it. Daniel intentionally tipped that information to Individual C and obtained a
personal benefit.
20.
On March 25, 2011, Individual C purchased 975 shares of GSI in his
brokerage account on the basis of the material nonpublic information about the
acquisition that Daniel had communicated to him.
21.
At 10:05 a.m. on March 28, 2011, GSI and EBAY announced that the
companies had entered into a definitive agreement to merge, whereby EBAY would
acquire GSI for $29.25 per share. The closing last sale price of GSI on the day of the
announcement was $29.20, an increase of approximately 50.6% over the prior day’s
close.
22.
Following the announcement on March 28, 2011, Daniel and Patricia sold
their 5,000 GSI shares for a profit of $53,037.
23.
Zajick sold his 10,000 GSI shares following the announcement on March
28, 2011 for a profit of $97,500.
24.
Individual C also sold his GSI shares on March 28, 2011 following the
announcement for a profit of $9,491.
25.
Individual B allowed his GSI shares to convert to cash at the close of the
deal on June 21, 2011 for a profit of $1,083.
26.
As a result of the conduct described above, Respondents violated Section
10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct
in connection with the purchase or sale of securities.

4

IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the
sanctions agreed to in Respondents’ Offers.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondents cease and desist
from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Section 10(b) of the
Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.
B.
Respondents Patricia Metzler and Daniel Metzler shall pay, jointly and
severally, disgorgement of $53,037, prejudgment interest of $7,791, and a civil money
penalty in the amount of $107,224 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer
to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section
21F(g)(3). Payment shall be made in the following installments:
(i) $60,828 due 10 days from entry of this Order
(ii) $35,750 due July 1, 2016
(iii)$35,750 due November 1, 2016
(iv) Remaining balance due February 1, 2017
If any payment is not made by the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire
outstanding balance of disgorgement, prejudgment interest, and civil penalties, plus any
additional interest accrued pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600 and/or pursuant to 31
U.S.C. 3717, shall be due and payable immediately, without further application.
Payment must be made in one of the following ways:
(1)

Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the
Commission, which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire
instructions upon request;

(2)

Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via
Pay.gov through the SEC website at
http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or
United States postal money order, made payable to the Securities
and Exchange Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169

5

Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
Patricia Metzler and Daniel Metzler as Respondents in these proceedings, and the file
number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be
sent to Scott Friestad, Associate Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and
Exchange Commission, 100 F St., NE, Washington, DC 20549-5010.
C.
Respondent Donald Zajick shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order,
pay disgorgement of $97,500, prejudgment interest of $4,322, and a civil money penalty in
the amount of $97,500 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the
general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If
timely payment of disgorgement and prejudgment interest is not made, additional interest
shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600. If timely payment of the civil penalty is
not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717. Payment must be
made in one of the ways described in Section IV.B. Payments by check or money order
must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying Donald Zajick as a Respondent in these
proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check
or money order must be sent to Scott Friestad, Associate Director, Division of
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., NE, Washington, DC
20549-5010.

D.
Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order
shall be treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax
purposes. To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondents agree that in
any Related Investor Action, they shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall they
benefit by, offset or reduction of any award of compensatory damages by the amount of
any part of Respondents’ payment of a civil penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset"). If the
court in any Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty Offset, Respondents agree that
they shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty Offset, notify the
Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to the
Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional
civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty imposed in
this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action" means a
private damages action brought against any of the Respondents by or on behalf of one or
more investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by
the Commission in this proceeding.

6

V.
It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in
Section 523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true
and admitted by Respondents, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest,
civil penalty or other amounts due by Respondents under this Order or any other judgment,
order, consent order, decree or settlement agreement entered in connection with this
proceeding, is a debt for the violation by Respondents of the federal securities laws or any
regulation or order issued under such laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the
Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19).

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

7

