UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77037 / February 2, 2016
WHISTLEBLOWER AWARD PROCEEDING
File No. 2016-3
In the Matter of the Claim for Award
in connection with
In the Matter of Fiduciary Asset Management, LLC,
File No. 3-15150
Notice of Covered Action 2013-4

ORDER DETERMINING WHISTLEBLOWER AWARD CLAIM
On June 5, 2015, the Claims Review Staff (“CRS”) issued a Preliminary Determination
Redacted
preliminarily denying a claim for award submitted by
(“Claimant”) in
connection with Notice of Covered Action 2013-4 (“Covered Action”). The CRS found that
Claimant failed to submit the claim for award within ninety (90) days of the Notice of Covered
Action, as required under Rule 21F-10(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange
Act”).1 The CRS also found that Claimant was not a “whistleblower” under Rule 21F-2(a)(1) of
the Exchange Act with respect to the Covered Action because Claimant did not provide the
Commission with information relating to a possible violation of the federal securities laws,2 and
failed to submit information in the form and manner that is required under Rules 21F-2(a)(2),
21F-8(a) and 21F-9(a) & (b) of the Exchange Act.3

1

Under Exchange Act Rule 21F-10(a), “[w]henever a Commission action results in monetary sanctions totaling
more than $1,000,000, the Office of the Whistleblower will cause to be published on the Commission’s website a
‘Notice of Covered Action’ . . . A claimant will have ninety (90) days from the date of the Notice of Covered Action
to file a claim for an award based on that action, or the claim will be barred.”).
2

Exchange Act Rule 21F-2(a)(1) defines “whistleblower” as an individual who, alone or jointly with others,
provides the Commission with information pursuant to the Commission’s procedures and the information “relates to
a possible violation of the federal securities laws . . . that has occurred, is ongoing, or is about to occur.”
3

For purposes of the award program, whistleblowers are required to submit their information about a possible
securities law violation through the Commission’s online system, or by mailing or faxing a Form TCR, and to

1

On November 10, 2015, Claimant filed a written response contesting the Preliminary
Determination. In Claimant’s request for reconsideration, Claimant argued that
submitted an
award claim within the 90-day deadline, but did not identify the date of when
submitted the
application and did not otherwise include any materials supporting
contention that the award
claim was timely made. Claimant’s request for reconsideration did not address the second,
independent ground for the denial of
claim—that
is not a “whistleblower” because
failed to provide information to the Commission of a possible violation of the federal securities
laws. Having considered the record, including Claimant’s response to the Preliminary
Determination, we are denying Claimant’s award claim because (1) the application was untimely
and (2) Claimant is not a “whistleblower” and did not submit information in accordance with the
Commission’s procedural requirements.
Redacted

Redacted

Redacted

Redacted

Redacted

Redacted

The Notice for Covered Action 2013-4 was posted on the Commission’s website on
January 3, 2013. The 90-day deadline for filing an award claim in connection with the Covered
Action was April 4, 2013. Claimant submitted multiple applications on Form WB-APP in
connection with the Covered Action, but the first application was faxed to the Office of the
Whistleblower (“OWB”) on October 9, 2013, six months after the filing deadline.
Redacted

Claimant’s request for reconsideration makes the blanket assertion that
award
application was timely because
“strategically calculated the time frame to make sure
[Claimant] was in the 90 [day] window of opportunity.” Claimant, however, does not identify
when
submitted the award claim, and provides no materials supporting
argument that the
Redacted

Redacted

Redacted

application was timely.4 We find that the record conclusively demonstrates that the Claimant did
not timely submit
award application.
Redacted

We also find that Claimant is not a “whistleblower” with respect to the Covered Action,
something which Claimant does not dispute in the reconsideration request.5 According to
Claimant’s award applications, Claimant submitted information to other federal agencies, but
does not identify any information that
provided to the Commission. A search of the
Redacted

declare under penalty of perjury that the information submitted is true and correct to the best of the individual’s
knowledge and belief. See Exchange Act Rules 21F-9(a) & (b).
4

Redacted

Claimant also contends that
“double verified” the deadline with OWB staff. But Claimant has offered no proof
of this contention, and OWB’s records show that the first time Claimant called the whistleblower hotline was on
October 29, 2013—more than three weeks after Claimant filed
first, untimely award claim in connection with
the Covered Action. We thus find that the record does not support Claimant’s contention that
“double verified”
the filing deadline with OWB staff. And in any event, the obligation was on Claimant to submit a timely application
for award and
failed to do this.
Redacted

Redacted

Redacted

5

In light of the fact that the Claimant failed to contest the Preliminary Determination that
whistleblower, we separately find that
has waived that issue.
Redacted

2

Redacted

does not qualify as a

Commission’s Tips, Complaints and Referrals (“TCR”) system—the Commission’s electronic
database which records and stores information received from whistleblowers and others about
potential securities law violations and records staff action taken with regard to tips, complaints,
and referrals entered into the system—confirmed that Claimant did not submit a tip to the
Commission in connection with the Covered Action or with respect to any other matter or
investigation.
Accordingly, it is ORDERED that Claimant’s whistleblower award claim be, and hereby
is, denied.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

