UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 76898 / January 14, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17052

In the Matter of
Andain, Inc.,

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND REVOKING REGISTRATION OF
SECURITIES PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(j) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it necessary and
appropriate for the protection of investors that proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant
to Section 12(j) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Andain, Inc.
(“Andain” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting
Proceedings, Making Findings, and Revoking Registration of Securities Pursuant to Section 12(j)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Andain (CIK No. 1321502) is a revoked Nevada corporation located in
Beverly Hills, California with a class of securities registered with the Commission pursuant

to Exchange Act Sections 12(g). As of May 26, 2015, the company’s stock (symbol
“ANDN”) was quoted on OTC Link (previously, “Pink Sheets”) operated by OTC Markets
Group, Inc., had six market makers, and was eligible for the “piggyback” exception of
Exchange Act Rule 15c2-11(f)(3).
2.
Andain has failed to comply with Exchange Act Section 13(a) and Rules
13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder because it has not filed any periodic reports since it filed a
Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2013. Andain has also violated a ceaseand-desist order of the Commission dated March 2, 2011, which ordered pursuant to
Exchange Act Section 21C that Andain cease and desist from committing or causing any
violations and any future violations of Exchange Act Section 13(a) and Rules 13a-1 and
13a-13 thereunder.
IV.
Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act provides as follows:
The Commission is authorized, by order, as it deems necessary or appropriate for the
protection of investors to deny, to suspend the effective date of, to suspend for a period not
exceeding twelve months, or to revoke the registration of a security, if the Commission finds, on
the record after notice and opportunity for hearing, that the issuer of such security has failed to
comply with any provision of this title or the rules and regulations thereunder. No member of a
national securities exchange, broker, or dealer shall make use of the mails or any means of
instrumentality of interstate commerce to effect any transaction in, or to induce the purchase or sale
of, any security the registration of which has been and is suspended or revoked pursuant to the
preceding sentence.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission finds that it is necessary and appropriate for the
protection of investors to impose the sanction specified in Respondent’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, pursuant to Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act, that
registration of each class of Respondent’s securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the
Exchange Act be, and hereby is, revoked.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

