ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17535
SEC Charges Former Information Technology Executive with FCPA Violations; Former
Employer Not Charged Due to Cooperation with SEC
Sept. 12, 2016 – The Securities and Exchange Commission today announced that a former
executive at an international communications and information technology company has agreed to
settle charges that he violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) by facilitating a bribe
scheme whereby illegal payments were made to Chinese government officials to obtain or retain
business.
An SEC investigation found that Jun Ping Zhang (Ping), in his capacity as the chairman and
CEO of a Chinese subsidiary of Harris Corporation (Harris), authorized and facilitated a practice
of giving gifts to officials at state-owned hospitals in China. With Ping’s knowledge and under
his management, the subsidiary’s sales staff used bogus expense receipts to generate cash for the
gifts. Ping and the supervisors that he managed authorized the false expense claims, knowing
that they were fabricated and that the “reimbursed” funds were actually used to buy gifts for
government officials to influence their decisions to purchase the subsidiary’s products and
services. Ping knew that these false expenses were improperly recorded in the subsidiary’s
books and records as legitimate expenses or fees and that, as a result, their true nature would not
be disclosed to Harris. Because the subsidiary’s financials were consolidated into Harris’s books
and records, Ping caused Harris’s failure to make and keep accurate books, records, and
accounts, as required under the FCPA.
Although only able to perform limited pre-acquisition due diligence on the subsidiary, Harris
took immediate and significant steps after the acquisition to train staff in China and integrate the
subsidiary into Harris’s system of internal accounting controls. As a result of Harris’s postacquisition measures, including the implementation of an anonymous complaint hotline, Harris
discovered the misconduct at the subsidiary within five months of the acquisition.
The SEC’s order finds that Ping violated the anti-bribery, books and records, and internal
accounting controls provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Ping consented to the
entry of the cease-and-desist order and agreed to pay a $46,000 civil penalty.
The SEC determined not to bring charges against Harris, taking into consideration the company’s
efforts at self-policing that led to the discovery of Ping’s misconduct shortly after the acquisition,
prompt self-reporting, thorough remediation, and exemplary cooperation with the SEC’s
investigation.
The SEC’s investigation was conducted by Morgan B. Ward Doran and Carol Shau. The case
was supervised by Alka Patel. The SEC appreciates the assistance of the United States
Department of Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
See also:

Order

