ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17277
SEC Charges Michigan-based Audit Firm and its Owners with Violating Auditing
Standards and Engaging in Improper Professional Conduct in Audits of Microcap
Companies
June 6, 2016 – The Securities and Exchange Commission today announced that Michigan-based
audit firm Silberstein Unger PLLC, and its owners Ronald N. Silberstein, CPA, Joel M. Ungar,
CPA, Seth A. Gorback, and David A. Kobylarek, CPA, have agreed to settle charges of
engaging in improper professional conduct and failing to comply with PCAOB auditing
standards in connection with the audits of nine microcap issuers.
An SEC investigation found that for one of the audits, the audit documentation for most of the
assets, including those classified as “significant or fraud risks,” was comprised mainly of audit
testing prepared and performed by a different accounting firm for a different audit. Other
audit work papers for this same audit were either duplicates or near duplicates of work papers
from audits of different Silberstein Ungar clients and included the documentation of
procedures performed for the other audits. The audit work papers for other microcap issuers
did not contain evidence that Silberstein Ungar reviewed, evaluated, or tested the process used
by management to conclude that an impairment of their largest asset was not necessary and the
related audit work papers mainly consisted of memos based on generally accepted accounting
principles applicable to companies in a different industry. Silberstein Ungar also failed in its
gatekeeping duties by issuing certain of its audit reports without obtaining engagement quality
reviews.
The SEC’s order instituting settled administrative proceedings found that the respondents
each willfully aided and abetted and caused violations of the reporting provisions of the
federal securities laws. Each of the respondents consented, without admitting or denying
the findings in the SEC’s order, to a cease-and-desist order against future violations of
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Sections 13(a) and 15(d) and Rules 13a-1 and 15d-1
thereunder, and Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X, and to the entry of an order
suspending each of them from appearing and practicing before the SEC as an accountant,
which includes not participating in the financial reporting or audits of public companies.
The SEC’s order permits Silberstein and Ungar to apply for reinstatement after five years,
and allows Gorback and Kobylarek to apply for reinstatement after three years. The
firm’s suspension is permanent. Silberstein also agreed to pay a $35,000 penalty and
Ungar agreed to pay a $7,500 penalty.
The SEC’s investigation was conducted by Matthew L. Skidmore, Avron Elbaum, and Mary S.
Brady. The case was supervised by Thomas J. Krysa and litigation assistance was provided by
Zachary T. Carlyle and Gregory Kasper.
See also:

Order - Silberstein Ungar PLLC, et al.

