SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
(Release No. 34-78101; File No. 10-222)
June 17, 2016
In the Matter of the Application of
Investors’ Exchange, LLC
for Registration as a National Securities Exchange
Findings, Opinion, and Order of the Commission
I.

Introduction and Procedural History
On August 21, 2015, Investors’ Exchange, LLC (“IEX” or “IEX Exchange”) submitted to

the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) a Form 1 application (“Form 1”)
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Act”), seeking registration as a national securities
exchange pursuant to Section 6 of the Act. 1 IEX has amended its Form 1 five times, as detailed
below. The Commission has reviewed the exchange registration application, as amended,
together with all comments received, in order to make a determination whether to grant the
registration. 2
On September 9, 2015, IEX submitted Amendment No. 1 to its Form 1. 3 Notice of the
application, as amended by Amendment No. 1, was published for comment in the Federal
Register on September 22, 2015. 4 On December 18, 2015, IEX consented to an extension of
time to March 21, 2016 for Commission consideration of its Form 1 application and the

1

15 U.S.C. 78f.

2

See 15 U.S.C. 78f and 15 U.S.C. 78s.

3

In Amendment No. 1, IEX submitted updated portions of its Form 1, including revised
exhibits, a revised version of the proposed IEX Rule Book, and revised Addenda C-2, C3, C-4, D-1, D-2, F-1, F-2, F-3, F-4, F-5, F-6, F-7, F-8, F-9, F-10, F-11, F-12, F-13.

4

See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 75925 (September 15, 2015), 80 FR 57261
(“Notice”).

comments received thereon. 5 In response to comments, IEX submitted an amendment to its
Form 1 on February 29, 2016 to propose a new approach to outbound routing, which had been
the subject of extensive public comment as originally proposed. 6 IEX submitted a third
amendment to its Form 1 on March 4, 2016. 7 IEX submitted a fourth amendment to its Form 1
on March 7, 2016. 8 IEX submitted a fifth amendment to its Form 1 on May 27, 2016. 9 All
together, the Commission received 474 comments regarding the IEX Exchange Form 1. 10 IEX
submitted several responses to comments. 11

5

See Letter from Sophia Lee, General Counsel, IEX, to Brent J. Fields, Secretary,
Commission, dated December 18, 2015.

6

In Amendment No. 2, IEX proposed changes to its Form 1 to, among other things,
redesign its outbound routing functionality to direct routable orders first to the IEX
routing logic instead of directly to the IEX matching engine. See Letter from Sophia Lee,
General Counsel, IEX, to Brent J. Fields, Secretary, Commission, dated February 29,
2016, at 1. In this manner, the IEX router would “interact with the IEX matching system
over a 350 microsecond speed-bump in the same way an independent third party broker
would be subject to a speed bump.” Id.

7

In Amendment No. 3, IEX proposed changes to its Form 1 to clarify and correct revisions
to its rulebook that it made in Amendment No. 2. See Letter from Sophia Lee, General
Counsel, IEX, to Brent J. Fields, Secretary, Commission, dated March 4, 2016.

8

In Amendment No. 4, IEX proposed changes to its Form 1 to update Exhibit E to reflect
changes it proposed in Amendment No. 2. See Letter from Sophia Lee, General Counsel,
IEX, to Brent J. Fields, Secretary, Commission, dated March 7, 2016.

9

In Amendment No. 5, IEX updated Exhibits J and K to reflect changes since its initial
filing. See Letter from Sophia Lee, General Counsel, IEX, to Brent J. Fields, Secretary,
Commission, dated May 27, 2016.

10

See Appendix A (listing comments received on this matter).

11

See Letter from Sophia Lee, General Counsel, IEX, to Brent J. Fields, Secretary,
Commission, dated November 13, 2015 (“IEX First Response”); Letter from Sophia Lee,
General Counsel, IEX, to Brent J. Fields, Secretary, Commission, dated November 23,
2015 (“IEX Second Response”); Letter from Sophia Lee, General Counsel, IEX, to Brent
J. Fields, Secretary, Commission, dated February 9, 2016 (“IEX Third Response”); Letter
from Donald Bollerman, Head of Markets and Sales, IEX Group, Inc., to File No. 10222, dated February 16, 2016 (“IEX Fourth Response”); Letter from IEX Group, Inc., to
File No. 10-222, dated February 19, 2016 (“IEX Fifth Response”); and Letter from

2

On March 18, 2016, the Commission issued an order (“Order Instituting Proceedings” or
“OIP”) that provided public notice of the significant changes IEX proposed to its application in
Amendment Nos. 2, 3, and 4, and solicited comment on the amended Form 1, while
simultaneously instituting proceedings under Section 19(a)(1)(B) of the Act 12 to determine
whether to grant or deny IEX’s exchange registration application, as amended. 13 By publishing
notice of, and soliciting comment on, IEX’s Form 1, as amended by Amendment Nos. 2, 3, and
4, and simultaneously instituting proceedings, the Commission sought public input in particular
on whether IEX’s proposed new outbound routing structure, as reflected by IEX’s Form 1 and
rules as amended by Amendment Nos. 2, 3, and 4 is consistent with the Act, and accordingly,
whether IEX should be registered as a national securities exchange. 14 The Order Instituting
Proceedings extended until June 18, 2016, the date by which the Commission shall grant or deny
IEX’s Form 1, as amended, for registration as a national securities exchange. The Commission
received additional comment on IEX’s amended Form 1 subsequent to the publication of the Order

Sophia Lee, General Counsel, IEX, to Brent J. Fields, Secretary, Commission, dated
February 29, 2016 (“IEX Sixth Response”).
12

15 U.S.C. 78s(a)(1)(B).

13

See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 77406, 81 FR 15765 (March 24, 2016) (File
No. 10-222) (“Order Instituting Proceedings” or “OIP”). Also on March 18, 2016, the
Commission separately issued a notice of a proposed Commission interpretation regarding
automated quotations under Regulation NMS. See Securities Exchange Act Release No.
77407, 81 FR 15660 (March 24, 2016) (File No. S7-03-16) (“Notice of Proposed
Interpretation”). Separately, today, the Commission has adopted a final interpretation.
See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 78102 (June 17, 2016) (File No. S7-03-16)
(“Final Interpretation”).

14

While IEX’s proposed outbound routing structure was one focus of the Commission’s
solicitation of comment in the Order Instituting Proceedings, it is but one of several aspects
of IEX’s Form 1 that the Commission must consider in determining whether to grant or
deny IEX’s exchange registration application. All such aspects are discussed below.

3

Instituting Proceedings. A list of the comments received on IEX’s Form 1 is set forth in Appendix
A.
For the reasons set forth below, and based on the representations set forth in IEX’s Form 1,
as amended, as supplemented in IEX’s responses to comments included in the public comment file,
this order approves IEX’s Form 1 application, as amended, for registration as a national securities
exchange.
II.

Statutory Standards
Pursuant to Sections 6(b) and 19(a) of the Act, 15 the Commission shall by order grant an

application for registration as a national securities exchange if the Commission finds, among
other things, that the proposed exchange is so organized and has the capacity to carry out the
purposes of the Act and can comply, and can enforce compliance by its members and persons
associated with its members, with the provisions of the Act, the rules and regulations thereunder,
and the rules of the exchange.
As discussed in greater detail below, the Commission finds that IEX Exchange’s
application, as amended, for exchange registration meets the requirements of the Act and the
rules and regulations thereunder. Further, the Commission finds that the proposed rules of IEX
Exchange are consistent with Section 6 of the Act in that, among other things, they are designed
to: (1) assure fair representation of the exchange’s members in the selection of its directors and
administration of its affairs and provide that, among other things, one or more directors shall be
representative of investors and not be associated with the exchange, or with a broker or dealer; 16
(2) prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, promote just and equitable principles
15

15 U.S.C. 78f(b) and 15 U.S.C. 78s(a), respectively.

16

See 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(3).

4

of trade, foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing,
settling, processing information with respect to, and facilitating transactions in securities, and
remove impediments to and perfect the mechanisms of a free and open market and a national
market system; 17 (3) not permit unfair discrimination between customers, issuers, or dealers; 18
and (4) protect investors and the public interest. 19 The Commission also finds that the rules of
IEX Exchange are consistent with Section 11A of the Act. 20 Finally, the Commission finds that
IEX Exchange’s proposed rules at this time do not impose any burden on competition not
necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. 21
III.

Discussion
A.

Governance of IEX Exchange 22

IEX Group, Inc. (“IEXG”), a Delaware corporation, will own 100% of IEX Exchange as
well as IEX Services LLC (“IEXS”), a registered broker-dealer that currently operates an
alternative trading system (“IEX ATS”). Following the launch of operations of IEX Exchange,
IEXS would be a facility of IEX Exchange and would provide outbound order routing services to
IEX Exchange. 23

17

See 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5).

18

See id.

19

See id.

20

15 U.S.C. 78k-1.

21

15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(8).

22

The Commission did not receive any comments addressing the substance of the
governance provisions.

23

See Form 1, Exhibit C. See also IEX Exchange Rule 2.220.

5

1.

IEX Exchange Board of Directors

The board of directors of IEX Exchange (“Exchange Board”) will be its governing body
and will possess all of the powers necessary for the management of its business and affairs,
including governance of IEX Exchange as a self-regulatory organization (“SRO”). 24
Under the Amended and Restated Operating Agreement of Investors’ Exchange LLC
(“IEX Exchange Operating Agreement”): 25
●

The Exchange Board will initially be composed of seven directors; 26

●

One director will be the Chief Executive Officer of IEX Exchange; 27

●

The number of Non-Industry Directors, 28 including at least two Independent
Directors, 29 will equal or exceed the sum of the number of Industry Directors 30
and Member Representative Directors; 31

24

See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement, Article III, Section 1.

25

See Form 1, Exhibit A-3.

26

See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement, Article III, Section 2(a).

27

See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement, Article III, Section 2(b).

28

“Non-Industry Director” means a Director who is an Independent Director or any other
individual who would not be an Industry Director. See IEX Exchange Operating
Agreement, Article I(x).

29

“Independent Director” means a “Director who has no material relationship with the
[IEX Exchange] or any affiliate of the [IEX Exchange], or any [IEX member] or any
affiliate of any such [IEX member]; provided, however, that an individual who
otherwise qualifies as an Independent Director shall not be disqualified from serving in
such capacity solely because such Director is a Director of the [IEX Exchange] or
[IEXG].” See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement, Article I(n).

30

Generally, an “Industry Director” is, among other things, a Director that is or has been
within the prior three years an officer, director, employee, or owner of a broker or dealer,
as well as any Director who has, or has had, a consulting or employment relationship
with IEX Exchange or any affiliate of IEX Exchange within the prior three years. See
IEX Exchange Operating Agreement Article I(p). This definition is consistent with what
the Commission has approved for other exchanges. See, e.g., Securities Exchange Act
Release Nos. 62716 (August 13, 2010), 75 FR 51295 (August 19, 2010) (“BATS Y

6

●

At least twenty percent of the directors on the Exchange Board will be Member
Representative Directors; 32 and

●

A majority of the Board of Directors will be Independent Directors. 33

In addition, during such time as IEX Exchange operates a listings business, the
Exchange Board must have one Director who is an officer or director of an issuer and one
Director who is a representative of investors, and in each case, such Director must not be
associated with a member. 34
As discussed further below, the initial Directors of the Exchange Board shall be
appointed by IEXG and shall serve until the first annual meeting of holders of LLC interests of
Investors’ Exchange LLC, of which IEX Group, Inc. is the sole holder (“LLC Member”). In its
Form 1 application, IEX committed to hold its first annual meeting as a registered exchange
within 90 days after the date of final action by the Commission on IEX’s application for

Exchange Order”); and 68341 (December 3, 2012), 77 FR 73065 (December 7, 2012)
(“MIAX Exchange Order”).
31

See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement, Article III, Section 2(b). “Member
Representative Director” means a Director who has been appointed by IEXG as an initial
Director pursuant to Article III, Section 4(g) of the IEX Exchange Operating Agreement
to serve until the first annual meeting or who has been “elected by the LLC Member
after having been nominated by the Member Nominating Committee or by an Exchange
Member pursuant to [the] Operating Agreement and confirmed as the nominee of
Exchange Members after majority vote of Exchange Members, if applicable. A Member
Representative Director must be an officer, director, employee, or agent of an Exchange
Member that is not a Stockholder Exchange Member.” See IEX Exchange Operating
Agreement, Article I(u). See also IEX Exchange Operating Agreement, Article III,
Section 4(g).

32

See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement, Article III, Section 2(b).

33

See id.

34

See id.

7

registration as a national securities exchange (“Approval Date”). 35 At the first annual meeting of
the LLC Member and each annual meeting thereafter, IEXG, as the sole LLC Member of IEX
Exchange, will elect the Exchange Board pursuant to the IEX Exchange Operating Agreement
and consistent with the compositional requirements specified therein. 36 In addition, IEXG will
appoint the initial Nominating Committee 37 and Member Nominating Committee, 38 consistent
with each committee’s compositional requirements, 39 to nominate candidates for election to the
Exchange Board. Each of the Nominating Committee and Member Nominating Committee,
after completion of its respective duties for nominating directors for election to the Board for that
year, shall nominate candidates to serve on the succeeding year’s Nominating Committee or
Member Nominating Committee, as applicable, such candidates to be voted on by IEXG at the
annual meeting of the LLC Member. 40 IEX Exchange members have rights to nominate and
elect additional candidates for the Member Nominating Committee pursuant to a petition
process. 41
35

See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement, Article III, Section 4(g). See also discussion of
“Interim Exchange Board” infra.

36

See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement, Article IV, Section 1(a).

37

The number of Non-Industry members on the Nominating Committee must equal or
exceed the number of Industry members. All Nominating Committee members must be
Independent Directors. See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement Article VI, Section 2.
See also IEX Exchange Operating Agreement Article V, Section 2(a).

38

Each member of the Member Nominating Committee shall be a Member Representative
member. See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement Article VI, Section 3. See also IEX
Exchange Operating Agreement Article V, Section 2(a). Pursuant to IEX Exchange
Operating Agreement Article I(v), a “Member Representative member” is a member of
any committee or hearing panel who is an officer, director, employee or agent of an
Exchange Member that is not a Stockholder Exchange Member.

39

See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement Article VI, Section 1.

40

See id.

41

See id. See also IEX Exchange Operating Agreement Article III, Section 4.

8

The Nominating Committee will nominate candidates for each director position, and
IEXG, as the sole LLC Member, will elect those directors. For Member Representative Director
positions, the Member Nominating Committee will solicit input from IEX members and
members may submit petition candidates. 42 If no candidates are nominated pursuant to a petition
process, then the initial nominees submitted by the Member Nominating Committee will be
nominated as Member Representative Directors by the Nominating Committee. If a petition
process produces additional candidates, then the candidates nominated pursuant to the petition
process, together with those nominated by the Member Nominating Committee, will be
presented to IEX Exchange members for election to determine the final nominees for any open
Member Representative Director positions. 43 In the event of a contested election, the candidates
who receive the most votes will be selected as the Member Representative Director nominees by
the Nominating Committee. 44
Thereafter, the Member Nominating Committee will nominate a final slate of candidates
to the Nominating Committee, and the Nominating Committee must accept those candidates and

42

See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement Article III, Section 4(c). The petition must be
signed by executive representatives of 10% or more of the IEX Exchange members. No
IEX Exchange member, together with its affiliates, may account for more than 50% of
the signatures endorsing a particular candidate. See id.

43

See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement, Article III, Section 4(e) and (f). Each IEX
Exchange Member shall have the right to cast one vote for each available Member
Representative Director nomination, provided that any such vote must be cast for a
person on the List of Candidates and that no IEX Exchange member, together with its
affiliates, may account for more than 20% of the votes cast for a candidate. See IEX
Exchange Operating Agreement, Article III, Section 4(f).

44

See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement, Article III, Section 4(f).

9

submit them to the LLC Member. 45 IEXG, as the sole LLC Member, is obligated to elect the
Member Representative Director nominees that are nominated by the Nominating Committee. 46
In addition, with respect to the requirement that the number of Non-Industry Directors,
including at least two Independent Directors, will equal or exceed the sum of the number of
Industry Directors and Member Representative Directors, the Commission believes that the
proposed composition of the Exchange Board satisfies the requirements in Section 6(b)(3) of the
Act, 47 which requires in part that one or more directors be representative of issuers and investors
and not be associated with a member of the exchange, or with a broker or dealer. The
Commission previously has stated that the inclusion of public, non-industry representatives on
exchange oversight bodies is an important mechanism to support an exchange’s ability to protect
the public interest. 48 Further, the presence of public, non-industry representatives can help to
ensure that no single group of market participants has the ability to systematically disadvantage
other market participants through the exchange governance process. 49 The Commission believes
that public directors can provide unbiased perspectives, which may enhance the ability of the
Exchange Board to address issues in a non-discriminatory fashion and foster the integrity of IEX

45

See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement, Article III, Section 4(a). The Member
Nominating Committee will solicit comments from IEX Exchange members for the
purpose of approving and submitting names of candidates for election to the position of
Member Representative Director. See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement, Article III,
Section 4(b).

46

See id.

47

15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(3).

48

See, e.g., Regulation of Exchanges and Alternative Trading Systems, Securities
Exchange Act Release No. 40760 (December 8, 1998), 63 FR 70844 (December 22,
1998) (“Regulation ATS Release”).

49

See, e.g., MIAX Exchange Order, supra note 30, at 73067.

10

Exchange. 50 For similar reasons, the Commission also believes that the additional compositional
requirement that applies during such time as IEX Exchange operates a primary listings business
(i.e., the requirement that one Director be an officer or director of an issuer and one Director be a
representative of investors, in each case, not associated with a Member 51) is consistent with the
requirements of Section 6(b)(3) of the Act.
The Commission believes that the IEX Exchange governance provisions are consistent
with the Act. In particular, the Commission believes that the requirement in the IEX Exchange
Operating Agreement that 20% of the directors be Member Representative Directors and the
means by which they will be chosen by IEX Exchange members provide for the fair
representation of members in the selection of directors and the administration of IEX Exchange
and therefore are consistent with Section 6(b)(3) of the Act. 52 As the Commission has
previously noted, this requirement helps to ensure that members have a voice in an exchange’s
self-regulatory program, and that an exchange is administered in a way that is equitable to all
those who trade on its market or through its facilities. 53
2.

Interim Exchange Board

IEXG will appoint an interim Exchange board of directors (“Interim Exchange Board”) at
a special meeting, which will include interim Member Representative Directors. The interim

50

See, e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release No. 53128 (January 13, 2006), 71 FR 3550,
3553 (January 23, 2006) (granting the exchange registration of Nasdaq Stock Market,
Inc.) (“Nasdaq Exchange Order”); Securities Exchange Act Release No. 53382 (February
27, 2006), 71 FR 11251, 11261 (March 6, 2006) (“NYSE/Archipelago Merger Approval
Order”); and BATS Y Exchange Order, supra note 30 at 51298.

51

See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement, Article III, Section 2(b).

52

15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(3).

53

See, e.g., Nasdaq Exchange Order, supra note 50; and BATS Y Exchange Order, supra
note 30. See also NYSE/Archipelago Merger Approval Order, supra note 50.

11

Member Representative Directors will be selected by the Buy-Side Trading Advisory Committee
(“TAC”) of IEXG from a list of potential candidates submitted by current subscribers of the IEX
ATS. 54 IEX represents that these IEX ATS subscribers are expected to become members of IEX
Exchange through submission of and approval of an Exchange Waive-In Membership
Application. 55 IEX also represents that it currently expects that the Exchange’s initial
membership would consist substantially of the current group of IEX ATS subscribers, including,
but not limited to, those IEX ATS subscribers that have submitted potential candidates to the
TAC, and that it does not expect to receive a meaningful number of applications for Exchange
membership from non-IEX ATS subscribers during the tenure of the Interim Exchange Board. 56
Upon the appointment of the interim directors by IEXG, the Interim Exchange Board will meet
the board composition requirements set forth in the IEX Exchange Operating Agreement. 57
The Interim Exchange Board will serve until the first annual meeting of the LLC
Member, which will take place within 90 days after the Approval Date, when the Exchange
Board will be elected pursuant to the full nomination, petition, and voting process set forth in the
IEX Exchange Operating Agreement. 58 IEX represents that it will complete the full nomination,
petition, and voting process set forth in the IEX Exchange Operating Agreement as promptly as
possible after the effective date of the IEX Exchange Operating Agreement and within ninety
(90) days after the Approval Date. 59

54

See Form 1, Exhibit J.

55

See id.

56

See id.

57

See id.

58

See id. See also IEX Exchange Operating Agreement, Article III, Section 4.

59

See Form 1, Exhibit J.

12

The Commission believes that the process for electing the Interim Exchange Board, as
proposed, is consistent with the requirements of the Act, including that the rules of the exchange
assure fair representation of the exchange’s members in the selection of its directors and
administration of its affairs. 60 As noted above, the interim Member Representative Directors
will be selected by IEXG from a list of potential candidates submitted by a group of current
subscribers of the IEX ATS. IEX expects its IEX ATS subscribers to become the initial
members of IEX Exchange and does not expect significant numbers of new members initially,
and therefore conducting the initial Member Representative Director process among these
entities is an appropriate way to put in place promptly at IEX’s launch as an exchange a board
with Member Representative directors that represent the exchange’s initial membership. The
Commission notes that this Interim Exchange Board is only temporary, as IEX Exchange
represents that it will complete the full nomination, petition, and voting process as set forth in the
IEX Exchange Operating Agreement, which will provide persons that are approved as members
after the date of this Order with the opportunity to participate in the selection of the Member
Representative Directors, within 90 days of when IEX Exchange’s application for registration as
a national securities exchange is granted. 61 The Commission therefore believes that IEX
Exchange’s initial interim board process is consistent with the Act, including Section 6(b)(3), in
that it is designed to provide representation among the persons and firms likely to become
members when IEX commences operations as an exchange and is sufficient to allow IEX to
commence operations as an exchange for an interim period prior to going through the regular
60

See 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(3).

61

IEX’s proposed timeline for the interim board process follows a process similar to what
the Commission recently approved for the MIAX Exchange. See MIAX Exchange
Order, supra note 30.

13

process to elect a new Exchange Board pursuant to the full nomination, petition, and voting
process set forth in the IEX Exchange Operating Agreement.
3.

Exchange Committees

In the IEX Exchange Operating Agreement, IEX Exchange has proposed to establish
several committees of the Exchange Board. Specifically, IEX Exchange has proposed to
establish the following committees of the Exchange Board that would be appointed by the
Chairman of the Exchange Board, with the approval of the Exchange Board: an Appeals
Committee and a Regulatory Oversight Committee. 62 In addition, IEX Exchange has proposed
to establish a Nominating Committee and a Member Nominating Committee, which would be
elected on an annual basis by IEXG, as the sole LLC Member. 63 Further, the IEX Chairman,
with approval of the Exchange Board, may appoint a Compensation Committee, an Audit
Committee, an Executive Committee, and a Finance Committee of the Exchange Board. 64
The Appeals Committee will consist of two Independent Directors, and one Member
Representative Director. 65 Each member of the Regulatory Oversight Committee must be an
Independent Director. 66 If established, each voting member of the Compensation Committee
must be a Non-Industry Director. 67 If established, a majority of the Audit Committee members

62

See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement, Article V, Section 1.

63

See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement Article VI, Section 1.

64

See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement Article V, Section 6.

65

See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement Article V, Section 6(d).

66

See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement Article V, Section 6(c).

67

See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement Article V, Section 6(a).

14

must be Non-Industry Directors, all Audit Committee Directors must be Independent Directors,
and a Non-Industry Director will serve as Chairman. 68
Because the Executive Committee will have the powers and authority of the Exchange
Board in the management of the business and affairs of the IEX Exchange between meetings of
the Exchange Board, its composition must reflect that of the Exchange Board. Accordingly, if
established, the number of Non-Industry Directors on the Executive Committee must equal or
exceed the number of Industry Directors and the percentages of Independent Directors and
Member Representative Directors must be at least as great as the corresponding percentages on
the Exchange Board as a whole. 69
As discussed above, the Nominating and Member Nominating Committees will have
responsibility for, among other things, nominating candidates for election to the Exchange
Board. On an annual basis, the members of these committees will nominate candidates for the
succeeding year’s respective committees to be elected by IEXG, as the sole LLC Member. 70
The Commission believes that IEX Exchange’s proposed committees, which are similar
to the committees maintained by other exchanges, 71 are designed to help enable IEX Exchange
to carry out its responsibilities under the Act and are consistent with the Act, including Section
6(b)(1), which requires, in part, an exchange to be so organized and have the capacity to carry
out the purposes of the Act. 72
68

See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement Article V, Section 6(b).

69

See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement Article V, Section 6(e).

70

See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement Article VI, Section 1. Additional candidates for
the Member Nominating Committee may be nominated and elected by IEX Exchange
members pursuant to a petition process. See supra note 42 and accompanying text.

71

See, e.g., BATS Y Exchange Order and MIAX Exchange Order, supra note 30.

72

15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(1).

15

B.

IEX Group and Regulation of IEX Exchange 73

When IEX Exchange commences operations as a national securities exchange, IEX
Exchange will have all the attendant regulatory obligations under the Act. In particular, IEX
Exchange will be responsible for the operation and regulation of its trading system and the
regulation of its members. The Commission believes that certain provisions in the IEX
Exchange and IEXG governance documents are designed to facilitate the ability of IEX
Exchange and the Commission to fulfill their regulatory obligations. The discussion below
summarizes some of these key provisions.
1.

Ownership Structure; Ownership and Voting Limitations

IEX Exchange will be structured as a Delaware limited liability company (“LLC”), which
will be wholly owned by the sole member of the LLC, IEXG. The proposed Third Amended and
Restated Certificate of Incorporation of IEX Group, Inc. (“IEXG Certificate”) includes
restrictions on the ability to own and vote shares of capital stock of IEXG. 74 These limitations
are designed to prevent any IEXG shareholder from exercising undue control over the operation
of IEX Exchange and to ensure that the IEX Exchange and the Commission are able to carry out
their regulatory obligations under the Act.
In particular, for so long as IEXG directly or indirectly controls IEX Exchange, no
person, either alone or together with its related persons, 75 may beneficially own more than 40%
73

The Commission did not receive any comments addressing the substance of regulation.

74

These provisions are consistent with ownership and voting limits approved by the
Commission for other SROs. See e.g., BATS Y Exchange Order and MIAX Exchange
Order, supra note 30. See also Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 61698 (March 12,
2010), 75 FR 13151 (March 18, 2010) (“DirectEdge Exchanges Order”); and 58375
(August 18, 2008) 73 FR 49498 (August 21, 2008) (File No. 10-182) (“BATS Exchange
Order”).

75

See IEXG Certificate TENTH (A)(2) (defining “related persons”).

16

of any class of capital stock of IEXG. 76 IEX will have a more restrictive condition for IEX
Exchange members, wherein IEX Exchange members, either alone or together with their related
persons, are prohibited from beneficially owning more than 20% of shares of any class of
capital stock of IEXG. 77 If any stockholder violates these ownership limits, IEXG would
redeem the shares in excess of the applicable ownership limit at their par value. 78 In addition,
no person, alone or together with its related persons, may vote or cause the voting of more than
20% of the voting power of the then issued and outstanding capital stock of IEXG. 79 If any
stockholder purports to vote, or cause the voting of, shares that would violate this voting limit,
IEXG would not honor such vote in excess of the voting limit. 80
Any person that proposes or attempts to own shares of capital stock in excess of the 40%
ownership limitation, or vote or grant proxies or consents with respect to shares of capital stock
in excess of the 20% voting limitation, must deliver written notice to the IEXG board of
directors (“IEXG Board”) to notify the IEXG Board of its intention. 81 The notice must be
delivered to the IEXG Board not less than 45 days before the proposed ownership of such
shares or proposed exercise of such voting rights or the granting of such proxies or consents. 82
76

See IEXG Certificate TENTH (B)(1.1).

77

See IEXG Certificate TENTH (B)(1.2).

78

See IEXG Certificate TENTH (E). Any shares which have been called for redemption
shall not be deemed outstanding shares for the purpose of voting or determining the total
number of shares entitled to vote. Once redeemed by IEXG, such shares shall become
treasury shares and shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding. See id. Furthermore, if
any redemption results in another stockholder owning shares in violation of the
ownership limits described above, IEXG shall redeem such shares. See id.

79

See IEXG Certificate TENTH (B)(1.3).

80

See IEXG Certificate TENTH (D).

81

See IEXG Certificate TENTH (B)(4).

82

See id.

17

The IEXG Board may waive the 40% ownership limitation and the 20% voting limitation for
non-members, pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the IEXG Board, if it makes certain
findings. 83 The IEXG Board is specifically prohibited from waiving the voting and ownership
limits above 20% for IEX Exchange members and their related persons. 84 As required by the
IEXG Certificate, any waiver for non-members would not be effective unless and until
approved by the Commission pursuant to Section 19 of the Act. 85
The IEXG Certificate also contains provisions that are designed to further safeguard the
ownership and voting limitations described above, or are otherwise related to direct and indirect
changes in control. Specifically, any person that, either alone or together with its related persons
owns, directly or indirectly, of record or beneficially, 5% or more of the capital stock of IEXG
will be required to immediately notify the IEXG Board in writing upon acquiring knowledge of
83

See IEXG Certificate TENTH (B)(2.2). The required determinations are that (A) such
waiver will not impair the ability of IEX Exchange to carry out its functions and
responsibilities under the Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, (B)
such waiver is otherwise in the best interests of IEXG, its stockholders, and IEX
Exchange, (C) such waiver will not impair the ability of the Commission to enforce the
Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and (D) the transferee in such
transfer and its related persons are not subject to any applicable “statutory
disqualification” (within the meaning of Section 3(a)(39) of the Act). See IEXG
Certificate TENTH (B)(2.2) and (B)(3). The Commission has previously approved
identical rules of other exchanges that provide for the ability of the exchange to waive the
ownership and voting limitations discussed above for non-members of the exchange.
See, e.g., BATS Y Exchange Order, supra note 30 at 51296; and MIAX Exchange Order,
supra note 30 at 73069. See also Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
Miami International Holdings, Inc. Article Ninth(b)(ii)(B) and (iii); and Amended and
Restated Certificate of Incorporation of BATS Global Markets, Inc. Article
Fifth(b)(ii)(B) and (iii) (containing identical provisions).

84

See IEXG Certificate TENTH (B)(2.2) (“…and such resolution shall not be effective until
it is filed with and approved by the Commission.”). These provisions are generally
consistent with waiver of ownership and voting limits approved by the Commission for
other SROs. See e.g., BATS Y Exchange Order and MIAX Exchange Order, supra note
30. See also BATS Exchange Order and DirectEdge Exchanges Order, supra note 74.

85

See IEXG Certificate TENTH (B)(2.2).

18

such ownership. 86 Thereafter, such persons will be required to update IEXG of any increase or
decrease of 1% or more in their previously reported ownership percentage. 87
The IEX Exchange Operating Agreement does not include change of control provisions
that are similar to those in the IEXG Certificate; however the IEX Exchange Operating
Agreement explicitly provides that IEXG is the sole LLC Member of IEX Exchange. 88 Thus, if
IEXG ever proposes to no longer be the sole LLC Member of IEX Exchange (and therefore no
longer its sole owner), IEX Exchange would be required to amend the IEX Exchange Operating
Agreement. Any changes to the IEX Exchange Operating Agreement, including any change in
the provisions that identify IEXG as the sole owner of IEX Exchange, would be a rule change
that must be filed with, or filed with and approved by, the Commission pursuant to Section
19(b) of the Act and Rule 19b-4. 89 Further, pursuant to the IEX Exchange Operating
Agreement, IEXG may not transfer or assign, in whole or in part, its ownership interest in IEX
Exchange, unless such transfer or assignment is filed with and approved by the Commission
pursuant to Section 19 of the Act. 90

86

See IEXG Certificate TENTH(C)(1). The notice will require the person’s full legal
name; the person’s title or status; the person’s approximate ownership interest in IEXG;
and whether the person has power, directly or indirectly, to direct the management or
policies of IEXG. See id.

87

See IEXG Certificate TENTH(C)(2). Changes of less than 1% must also be reported to
IEXG if they result in such person crossing a 20% or 40% ownership threshold. See id.
In addition, IEX Exchange rules also impose limits on affiliation between the IEX
Exchange and a member of the IEX Exchange. See IEX Exchange Rule 2.210 (No
Affiliation between Exchange and any Member).

88

See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement Article I(s).

89

See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement, Article IX, Section 1(b) and Section 4. See
also 15 U.S.C. 78s(b) and 17 CFR 240.19b-4.

90

See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement Article IV, Section 4 and Article XI, Section
12.

19

Although IEXG is not directly responsible for regulation, its activities with respect to the
operation of IEX Exchange must be consistent with, and must not interfere with, the selfregulatory obligations of IEX Exchange. As described above, the provisions applicable to direct
and indirect changes in control of IEXG and IEX Exchange, as well as the voting limitation
imposed on owners of IEXG who also are IEX Exchange members, are designed to help prevent
any owner of IEXG from exercising undue influence or control over the operation of IEX
Exchange and to help ensure that IEX Exchange retains a sufficient degree of independence to
effectively carry out its regulatory obligations under the Act. In addition, these limitations are
designed to address the conflicts of interests that might result from a member of a national
securities exchange owning interests in the exchange. As the Commission has noted in the past,
a member’s ownership interest in an entity that controls an exchange could become so large as
to cast doubt on whether the exchange may fairly and objectively exercise its self-regulatory
responsibilities with respect to such member. 91 A member that is a controlling shareholder of
an exchange could seek to exercise that controlling influence by directing the exchange to
refrain from, or the exchange may hesitate to, diligently monitor and conduct surveillance of the
member’s conduct or diligently enforce the exchange’s rules and the federal securities laws with
respect to conduct by the member that violates such provisions. As such, the Commission
believes that these requirements are designed to minimize the potential that a person or entity
can improperly interfere with or restrict the ability of IEX Exchange to effectively carry out its
regulatory oversight responsibilities under the Act.
The Commission believes that IEX’s and IEXG’s proposed governance provisions are
consistent with the Act, including Section 6(b)(1), which requires, in part, an exchange to be so
91

See, e.g., BATS Y Exchange Order and MIAX Exchange Order, supra note 30.

20

organized and have the capacity to carry out the purposes of the Act. 92 In particular, these
requirements are designed to minimize the potential that a person could improperly interfere
with or restrict the ability of the Commission or IEX Exchange to effectively carry out their
regulatory oversight responsibilities under the Act.
2.

Regulatory Independence and Oversight

Although IEXG will not itself carry out regulatory functions, its activities with respect to
the operation of IEX Exchange must be consistent with, and must not interfere with, IEX
Exchange’s self-regulatory obligations. In this regard, IEX Exchange and IEXG propose to
adopt certain provisions in their respective governing documents that are designed to help
maintain the independence of the regulatory functions of IEX Exchange. These proposed
provisions are substantially similar to those included in the governing documents of other
exchanges that recently have been granted registration. 93 Specifically:
•

The directors, officers, employees, and agents of IEXG must give due regard to the
preservation of the independence of the self-regulatory function of IEX Exchange and
to its obligations to investors and the general public and must not take actions that
would interfere with the effectuation of decisions by the Exchange Board relating to
its regulatory functions or that would interfere with IEX Exchange’s ability to carry
out its responsibilities under the Act. 94

92

15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(1).

93

See, e.g., MIAX Exchange Order and BATS Y Order, supra note 30. See also
DirectEdge Exchanges Order, supra note 74.

94

See proposed Amended and Restated By-Laws of IEX Group, Inc. (“IEXG By-Laws”),
Article VII, Section 34. Similarly, Article III, Section 1(d) of the IEX Exchange
Operating Agreement requires the Exchange Board and each Director to, when managing
the business and affairs of IEX Exchange, consider the requirements of Section 6(b) of
the Act. Article III, Section 1(e) also requires the Exchange Board, when evaluating any

21

•

IEXG must comply with federal securities laws and the rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder, and agrees to cooperate with the Commission and IEX
Exchange pursuant to, and to the extent of, their respective regulatory authority. In
addition, IEXG’s officers, directors, employees, and agents must comply with federal
securities laws and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder and are deemed
to agree to cooperate with the Commission and IEX Exchange in respect of the
Commission’s oversight responsibilities regarding IEX Exchange and the selfregulatory functions and responsibilities of IEX Exchange and IEXG shall take
reasonable steps necessary to cause its officers, directors, employees and agents to so
cooperate. 95

•

IEXG, and its officers, directors, employees, and agents submit to the jurisdiction of
the U.S. federal courts, the Commission, and IEX Exchange, for purposes of any
action, suit, or proceeding pursuant to U.S. federal securities laws, and the rules and
regulations thereunder, arising out of, or relating to, IEX Exchange activities. 96

proposal to take into account (among other things and to the extent relevant), the
potential impact on the integrity, continuity and stability of the national securities
exchange operated by IEX Exchange and the other operations of IEX Exchange, on the
ability to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, and on investors and the
public, and whether such would promote just and equitable principles of trade, foster
cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing, settling,
processing information with respect to and facilitating transactions in securities or assist
in the removal of impediments to or perfection of the mechanisms for a free and open
market and a national market system.
95

See IEXG By-Laws, Article VII, Section 37. Similarly, Article III, Section 1(d) of the
IEX Exchange Operating Agreement requires IEX Exchange’s directors, officers and
employees, in discharging their duties, to comply with the federal securities laws and the
rules and regulations promulgated thereunder and to cooperate with the Commission and
IEX Exchange pursuant to their respective regulatory authority.

96

See IEXG By-Laws, Article VII, Section 38.

22

•

All books and records of IEX Exchange reflecting confidential information pertaining
to the self-regulatory function of IEX Exchange (including but not limited to
disciplinary matters, trading data, trading practices, and audit information) shall be
retained in confidence by IEX Exchange and its personnel, including its directors,
officers, employees and agents, and will not be used by IEX Exchange for any nonregulatory purposes and shall not be made available to any person (including, without
limitation, any IEX Exchange member) other than to personnel of the Commission,
and those personnel of IEX Exchange, members of committees of the Exchange
Board, members of the Exchange Board, or hearing officers and other agents of IEX
Exchange, to the extent necessary or appropriate to properly discharge the selfregulatory responsibilities of IEX Exchange. 97 Similar provisions apply to IEXG and
its directors, officers, employees and agents. 98

•

The books and records of IEX Exchange and IEXG must be maintained in the United
States 99 and, to the extent they are related to the operation or administration of IEX

97

See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement Article XI, Section 4.

98

The IEXG By-Laws also provide that all books and records of IEX Exchange reflecting
confidential information pertaining to the self-regulatory function of IEX Exchange that
come into the possession of IEXG, and the information contained in those books and
records, will be subject to confidentiality restrictions and will not be used for any nonregulatory purposes. See IEXG By-Laws Article VII, Section 35. The IEXG governing
documents acknowledge that requirements to keep such information confidential shall not
limit or impede the rights of the Commission to access and examine such information or
limit the ability of officers, directors, employees, or agents of IEX Exchange or IEXG to
disclose such information to the Commission. See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement
Article XI, Section 4 and IEXG By-Laws Article VII, Section 35.

99

See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement Article XI, Section 4; and IEXG By-Laws
Article VII, Section 36.

23

Exchange, IEXG’s books and records will be subject at all times to inspection and
copying by the Commission and IEX Exchange. 100
•

Furthermore, to the extent they relate to the activities of IEX Exchange, the books,
records, premises, officers, directors, employees, and agents of IEXG will be deemed
to be the books, records, premises, officers, directors, employees, and agents of IEX
Exchange, for purposes of, and subject to oversight pursuant to, the Act. 101

•

IEXG will take reasonable steps necessary to cause its officers, directors, employees,
and agents, prior to accepting a position as an officer, director, employee or agent (as
applicable) to consent in writing to the applicability of provisions regarding books
and records, confidentiality, jurisdiction, and regulatory obligations, with respect to
their activities related to IEX Exchange. 102

•

The IEXG Certificate and By-Laws require that, so long as IEXG controls IEX
Exchange, any changes to those documents must be submitted to the Exchange Board
for approval, and, if such change is required to be filed with the Commission pursuant
to Section 19(b) of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, such change
shall not be effective until filed with and effective by operation of law, or filed with,
and approved by, the Commission. 103

The Commission believes that the provisions discussed in this section, which are
designed to help ensure the independence of IEX Exchange’s regulatory function and facilitate
the ability of IEX Exchange to carry out its responsibility and operate in a manner consistent
100

See IEXG By-Laws Article VII, Section 36.

101

See IEXG By-Laws Article VII, Section 36.

102

See IEXG By-Laws Article VII, Section 39.

103

See IEXG Certificate Article NINTH; and IEXG By-Laws, Article XIV, Section 51.

24

with the Act, are appropriate and consistent with the requirements of the Act, particularly with
Section 6(b)(1), which requires, in part, an exchange to be so organized and have the capacity to
carry out the purposes of the Act. 104 Whether IEX Exchange operates in compliance with the
Act, however, depends on how it and IEXG in practice implement the governance and other
rules that are the subject of this Order.
Further, Section 19(h)(1) of the Act 105 provides the Commission with the authority “to
suspend for a period not exceeding twelve months or revoke the registration of [an SRO], or to
censure or impose limitations upon the activities, functions, and operations of [an SRO], if [the
Commission] finds, on the record after notice and opportunity for hearing, that [the SRO] has
violated or is unable to comply with any provision of the Act, the rules or regulations thereunder,
or its own rules or without reasonable justification or excuse has failed to enforce compliance…”
with any such provision by its members (including associated persons thereof). 106 If the
Commission were to find, or become aware of, through staff review and inspection or otherwise,
facts indicating any violations of the Act, including without limitation Sections 6(b)(1) and
19(g)(1), these matters could provide the basis for a disciplinary proceeding under Section
19(h)(1) of the Act.
The Commission also notes that, even in the absence of the governance provisions
described above, under Section 20(a) of the Act any person with a controlling interest in IEX
Exchange would be jointly and severally liable with and to the same extent that IEX Exchange is
liable under any provision of the Act, unless the controlling person acted in good faith and did

104

15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(1).

105

See 15 U.S.C. 78s(h)(1).

106

Id.

25

not directly or indirectly induce the act or acts constituting the violation or cause of action. 107 In
addition, Section 20(e) of the Act creates aiding and abetting liability for any person who
knowingly provides substantial assistance to another person in violation of any provision of the
Act or rule thereunder. 108 Further, Section 21C of the Act authorizes the Commission to enter a
cease-and-desist order against any person who has been “a cause of” a violation of any provision
of the Act through an act or omission that the person knew or should have known would
contribute to the violation. 109 These provisions are applicable to all entities’ dealings with IEX
Exchange, including IEXG.
3.

Regulatory Oversight Committee

The regulatory operations of IEX Exchange will be monitored by the Regulatory
Oversight Committee of the Exchange Board. The Regulatory Oversight Committee will
consist of at least two members, all of whom must be Independent Directors. The Regulatory
Oversight Committee will be responsible for overseeing the adequacy and effectiveness of
IEX Exchange’s regulatory and SRO responsibilities, assessing IEX Exchange’s regulatory
performance, and assisting the Exchange Board (and committees of the Exchange Board) in
reviewing IEX Exchange’s regulatory plan and the overall effectiveness of IEX Exchange’s
regulatory functions. 110
Further, a Chief Regulatory Officer (“CRO”) of IEX Exchange will have general
supervision over IEX Exchange’s regulatory operations, including responsibility for
107

15 U.S.C. 78t(a).

108

15 U.S.C. 78t(e).

109

15 U.S.C. 78u-3.

110

See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement Article V, Section 6(c). The Regulatory
Oversight Committee is responsible for reviewing IEX Exchange’s regulatory budget,
and also will meet regularly with the Chief Regulatory Officer. See id.

26

overseeing IEX Exchange’s surveillance, examination, and enforcement functions and for
administering any regulatory services agreements with another self-regulatory organization to
which IEX Exchange is a party. 111 The Regulatory Oversight Committee, in consultation
with the Chief Executive Officer of IEX Exchange, will be responsible for establishing the
goals, assessing the performance, and fixing the compensation of the Chief Regulatory
Officer and for recommending personnel actions involving the Chief Regulatory Officer and
senior regulatory personnel. 112
4.

Regulatory Funding and Services

As a prerequisite for the Commission’s granting of an exchange’s application for
registration, an exchange must be organized and have the capacity to carry out the purposes of
the Act. 113 Specifically, an exchange must be able to enforce compliance by its members, and
persons associated with its members, with the federal securities laws and rules thereunder and
the rules of the exchange. 114 The discussion below summarizes how IEX Exchange proposes
to conduct and structure its regulatory operations.
a.

Regulatory Funding

To help ensure that IEX has and will continue to have adequate funding to be able to
meet its responsibilities under the Act, IEX Exchange represents that, if the Commission
111

See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement Article VII, Section 9.

112

See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement Article V, Section 6(c). To the extent that the
Chief Executive Officer of IEX Exchange has any indirect supervisory responsibility for
the role or function of the CRO, including but not limited to, implementation of the
budget for the regulatory function or regulatory personnel matters, the Regulatory
Oversight Committee will take all steps reasonably necessary to ensure that the Chief
Executive Officer does not compromise the regulatory autonomy and independence of
the CRO or the regulatory function. See id.

113

See Section 6(b)(1) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(1).

114

See id. See also Section 19(g) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 78s(g).

27

approves IEX’s application for registration as a national securities exchange, IEXG will allocate
sufficient assets to IEX Exchange to enable the exchange’s operation. 115 Specifically, IEX
Exchange represents that IEXG will make a cash contribution to IEX Exchange of $5,000,000, in
addition to any previously-provided in-kind contributions, such as legal, regulatory, and
infrastructure-related services. 116
IEX Exchange also represents that such cash and in-kind contributions from IEXG will
be adequate to operate IEX Exchange, including the regulation of the exchange, and that IEXG
and IEX Exchange will enter into an agreement that requires IEXG to provide adequate funding
over time for the exchange’s operations, including the regulation of IEX Exchange. 117
Further, any “Regulatory Funds” received by IEX Exchange will not be used for nonregulatory purposes or distributed to IEXG, but rather will be applied to fund the regulatory
operations of IEX Exchange, or, as applicable, used to pay restitution and disgorgement to
customers as part of a regulatory proceeding. 118 Any excess non-regulatory funds, as determined
by IEX Exchange, may be remitted to IEXG. 119

115

See Form 1, Exhibit I.

116

See id.

117

See id. IEX Exchange represents that this agreement will provide that IEX Exchange
receive all fees, including regulatory fees and trading fees, payable by IEX Exchange's
members, as well as any funds received from any applicable market data fees and tape
revenue, and will further provide that IEXG will reimburse IEX Exchange for its costs
and expenses to the extent the exchange's assets are insufficient to meet its costs and
expenses. Id.

118

See IEX Exchange Operating Agreement Article X, Section 4. IEX Exchange Operating
Agreement Article I(zz) defines “Regulatory Funds” as “fees, fines, or penalties derived
from the regulatory operations of the [IEX Exchange],” but such term does not include
“revenues derived from listing fees, market data revenues, transaction revenues, or any
other aspect of the commercial operations of the [IEX Exchange], even if a portion of
such revenues are used to pay costs associated with the regulatory operations of the [IEX
Exchange].” This definition of is consistent with the rules of other SROs. See e.g., By-

28

b.

Regulatory Contract with FINRA

Although IEX Exchange will be an SRO with all of the attendant regulatory obligations
under the Act, it has represented to the Commission that it intends to enter into a Regulatory
Services Agreement (“RSA”) with FINRA, under which FINRA will perform certain regulatory
functions on IEX Exchange’s behalf. 120 Specifically, IEX Exchange represents that FINRA will
perform certain regulatory surveillance of trading activity on IEX Exchange and conduct various
regulatory services on behalf of IEX Exchange, which are expected to include performance of
investigation, disciplinary, and hearing services. 121 Notwithstanding the RSA, IEX Exchange
will retain legal responsibility for the regulation of its members and its market and the
performance of FINRA as its regulatory services provider. Because IEX Exchange anticipates
entering into an RSA with FINRA, it has not made provisions to fulfill the regulatory services
that would be undertaken by FINRA. Accordingly, the Commission is conditioning the
operation of IEX Exchange on IEX Exchange and FINRA entering into a final RSA that
specifies the services that FINRA will provide to IEX Exchange.
The Commission believes that it is consistent with the Act for IEX Exchange to contract
with FINRA to perform certain examination, enforcement, and disciplinary functions. 122 These

Laws of MIAX Exchange, Article 1(ee); By-Laws of NASDAQ PHLX LLC, Article I(ii);
and By-Laws of NASDAQ BX, Inc., Article I(ii).
119

See Form 1, Exhibit I. See also IEX Exchange Operating Agreement, Article XI, Section
5. Further, IEX Exchange will not be required to make a distribution to IEXG if such
distribution would violate the Act or any other applicable law. See id.

120

See Form 1, Exhibits C and L. See also IEX Exchange Rules 1.160(hh) and 6.170.

121

See Form 1, Exhibit C.

122

See, e.g., Regulation ATS Release, supra note 48. See also Nasdaq Exchange Order,
supra note 50; and BATS Exchange Order and DirectEdge Exchanges Order, supra note
74.

29

functions are fundamental elements of a regulatory program, and constitute core self-regulatory
functions. The Commission believes that FINRA has the expertise and experience to perform
these functions for IEX Exchange. 123 However, IEX Exchange, unless relieved by the
Commission of its responsibility, bears the self-regulatory responsibilities and primary liability
for self-regulatory failures, not the SRO retained to perform regulatory functions on IEX
Exchange’s behalf. 124 In performing these regulatory functions, however, FINRA may
nonetheless bear liability for causing or aiding and abetting the failure of IEX Exchange to
perform its regulatory functions. 125 Accordingly, although FINRA will not act on its own behalf
under its SRO responsibilities in carrying out these regulatory services for IEX Exchange,
FINRA may have secondary liability if, for example, the Commission finds that the contracted
functions are being performed so inadequately as to cause a violation of the federal securities
laws or rules thereunder by IEX Exchange. 126
c.

17d-2 Agreements

Section 19(g)(1) of the Act, 127 among other things, requires every SRO registered as
either a national securities exchange or national securities association to examine for, and
123

See, e.g., BATS Y Exchange Order, supra note 30; DirectEdge Exchanges Order, supra
note 74; and Nasdaq Exchange Order, supra note 50. The Commission notes that the RSA
is not before the Commission and, therefore, the Commission is not acting on it.

124

See Section 19(g) of the Act, 15 USC 78s(g); and Section 17(d)(1) of the Act and Rule
17d-2 thereunder, 15 U.S.C. 78q(d)(1) and 17 CFR 240.17d-2, respectively. See also
infra notes 127-135 and accompanying text.

125

For example, if failings by FINRA have the effect of leaving IEX Exchange in violation
of any aspect of IEX Exchange’s self-regulatory obligations, IEX Exchange would bear
direct liability for the violation, while FINRA may bear liability for causing or aiding and
abetting the violation. See, e.g., Nasdaq Exchange Order, supra note 50; BATS
Exchange Order, supra note 74; and DirectEdge Exchange Order, supra note 74.

126

See, e.g., Nasdaq Exchange Order, supra note 50.

127

15 U.S.C. 78s(g)(1).

30

enforce compliance by, its members and persons associated with its members with the Act, the
rules and regulations thereunder, and the SRO’s own rules, unless the SRO is relieved of this
responsibility pursuant to Section 17(d) or Section 19(g)(2) of the Act. 128 Rule 17d-2 of the Act
permits SROs to propose joint plans to allocate regulatory responsibilities amongst themselves
for their common rules with respect to their common members. 129 These agreements, which
must be filed with and declared effective by the Commission, generally cover areas where each
SRO’s rules substantively overlap, including such regulatory functions as personnel registration
and sales practices. Without this relief, the statutory obligation of each individual SRO could
result in a pattern of multiple examinations of broker-dealers that maintain memberships in more
than one SRO. 130 Such regulatory duplication would add unnecessary expenses for common
members and their SROs. 131
A 17d-2 plan that is declared effective by the Commission relieves the specified SRO of
those regulatory responsibilities allocated by the plan to another SRO. 132 Many SROs have
128

15 U.S.C. 78q(d) and 15 U.S.C. 78s(g)(2), respectively.

129

See Section 17(d)(1) of the Act and Rule 17d-2 thereunder, 15 U.S.C. 78q(d)(1) and 17
CFR 240.17d-2, respectively. Section 17(d)(1) of the Act allows the Commission to
relieve an SRO of certain responsibilities with respect to members of the SRO who are
also members of another SRO (“common members”). Specifically, Section 17(d)(1)
allows the Commission to relieve an SRO of its responsibilities to: (i) receive regulatory
reports from such members; (ii) examine such members for compliance with the Act and
the rules and regulations thereunder, and the rules of the SRO; or (iii) carry out other
specified regulatory responsibilities with respect to such members. Section 17(d) was
intended, in part, to eliminate unnecessary multiple examinations and regulatory
duplication with respect common members. See Securities Exchange Act Release No.
12935 (October 28, 1976), 41 FR 49091 (November 8, 1976) (“Rule 17d-2 Adopting
Release”).

130

See, e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release No. 76998 (January 29, 2016), 81 FR 6066,
6074 (ISE Mercury exchange order).

131

See id.

132

See Rule 17d-2 Adopting Release, supra note 129.

31

entered into Rule 17d-2 agreements. 133 IEX has represented to the Commission that IEX
Exchange and FINRA intend to file a 17d-2 agreement with the Commission covering common
members of IEX Exchange and FINRA. 134 This agreement would allocate to FINRA regulatory
responsibility, with respect to common members, for specified regulatory and enforcement
matters arising out of specified common rules and specified provisions of the Act and the rules
and regulations thereunder. In addition, IEX Exchange has represented to the Commission that it
intends to become a party to the existing multiparty Rule 17d-2 plan for the surveillance,
investigation, and enforcement of common insider trading rules. 135
Because IEX Exchange anticipates entering into these 17d-2 agreements, it has not made
provision to fulfill the regulatory obligations that would be undertaken by FINRA and other
SROs under these agreements with respect to common members. 136 Accordingly, the
Commission is conditioning the operation of IEX Exchange on approval by the Commission of a
17d-2 agreement between IEX Exchange and FINRA that allocates the above specified matters

133

See, e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 59218 (January 8, 2009), 74 FR 2143
(January 14, 2009) (File No. 4-575) (FINRA/Boston Stock Exchange, Inc.); 58818
(October 20, 2008), 73 FR 63752 (October 27, 2008) (File No. 4-569) (FINRA/BATS
Exchange, Inc.); 55755 (May 14, 2007), 72 FR 28057 (May 18, 2007) (File No. 4-536)
(National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (“NASD”) (n/k/a FINRA) and CBOE
concerning the CBOE Stock Exchange); 55367 (February 27, 2007), 72 FR 9983 (March
6, 2007) (File No. 4-529) (NASD/ISE); and 54136 (July 12, 2006), 71 FR 40759 (July
18, 2006) (File No. 4-517) (NASD/Nasdaq).

134

See Form 1, Exhibit C.

135

See id. See also Securities Exchange Act Release No. 65991 (December 16, 2011), 76
FR 79714 (December 22, 2011) (File No. 4-566) (notice of filing and order approving
and declaring effective an amendment to the multiparty 17d-2 plan relating to the
surveillance, investigation, and enforcement of insider trading rules).

136

The Commission notes that regulation that is to be covered by the 17d-2 agreement for
common members will be carried out by FINRA under the RSA for IEX Exchange
members that are not also members of FINRA.

32

to FINRA, and the approval of an amendment to the existing multiparty Rule 17d-2 agreement
specified above to add IEX Exchange as a party.
C.

IEX Trading System

Numerous comment letters the Commission received on IEX’s Form 1 application
focused on IEX’s proposed trading rules and the operation of its system. Much of the public
comment centered on issues related to specific features of IEX’s proposed trading system –
namely, its “Point-of-Presence” (“POP”) and “coil” infrastructure (sometimes referred to as
IEX’s “speed bump”) and the manner in which IEX originally proposed (prior to Amendment
Nos. 2, 3, and 4) to provide outbound routing services through its affiliated routing brokerdealer. IEX submitted several response letters to address these issues before amending its Form
1 in Amendment Nos. 2, 3, and 4 to propose a fundamentally different approach to outbound
routing. As detailed in the Order Instituting Proceedings, in these amendments IEX proposed a
material change to its approach to outbound routing through its affiliated routing broker-dealer.
In the Order Instituting Proceedings, the Commission provided public notice of IEX’s
amendments and solicited commenters’ views as to whether IEX’s proposed revisions, including
the changes to its outbound routing functionality, were consistent with the Act. The outbound
routing issue, other issues related to IEX’s POP and coil infrastructure, and other issues that are
relevant to IEX’s proposed trading system in the context of the Commission’s consideration of
IEX’s Form 1 are addressed below.

33

1.

Public Comment Overview and Commission Discussion

The Commission received letters in support, 137 as well as letters opposing or criticizing in
whole or part some of IEX’s proposed features. 138 Among the commenters who supported IEX’s
Form 1, most argued that IEX would offer a market solution to address certain market
inefficiencies and conflicts of interest in a manner that is intended to protect the interests of retail
and buy-side investors. 139 In particular, though IEX did not propose any fees in its Form 1,
137

See, e.g., Leuchtkafer First Letter; Leuchtkafer Second Letter; Verret Letter; Shatto
Letters 1, 2, and 3; Simonelis Letter; Capital Group Letter; Southeastern Letter; Navari
Letter; DV Advisors Letter; Cowen Letter; Themis First Letter; Themis Second Letter;
Oppenheimer Funds Letter; Murphy Letter; Birch Bay Letter; Healthy Markets Letter;
Keblish Letter; Bowcott Letter; Secrist Letter; Stevens Letter; Oltean Letter; Park Letter;
Crespo Letter; Colbert Letter; Lewis Letter; Hovanec First Letter; Hovanec Second
Letter; Meskill Letter; Brian S. Letter; Glennon Letter; Shaw Letter; Upson Letter;
Goldman Sachs Letter; Robeson Letter; Lynch Letter; Budish Letter; Chen & Foley
Letter; Liquidnet Letter; T. Rowe Price Letter; Sherman Letter; CALSTRS Letter;
PSRS/PEERS Letter; Asset Owners/Investment Managers March 21 Letter; Maqbool
Letter; Israel Letter.

138

See, e.g., BATS First Letter; BATS Second Letter; BATS Third Letter; NYSE First
Letter; NYSE Second Letter; NYSE Third Letter; Nasdaq First Letter; Nasdaq Second
Letter; Nasdaq Third Letter; Citadel First Letter; Citadel Second Letter; Citadel Third
Letter; Citadel Fourth Letter; Citadel Fifth Letter; FIA First Letter; FIA Second Letter;
Hudson River Trading First Letter; Hudson River Trading Second Letter; Anonymous
December 5 Letter; Hunsacker Letter; Modern Markets Initiative Letter; Tabb Letter;
Weldon First Letter; Markit First Letter; Markit Second Letter; Direct Match Letter;
Duffy Letter; Scott Letter; Loh Letter; Anonymous June 16 Letter.

139

See, e.g., Capital Group Letter at 1 (noting the “technologies and practices to discourage
predatory behavior” including the “350 microsecond buffer,” the lack of maker-taker
pricing, and “simple order types”); Southeastern Letter (submitted on behalf of a group of
undersigned asset managers) (complimenting IEX’s proposed benefits to investors in
“reducing structural inefficiencies in the market, and offering a more balanced and
simplified market design”); Navari Letter at 1 (noting certain features that “have great
promise for the [r]etail [i]nvestor”); DV Advisors Letter; Cowen Letter; Themis First
Letter (noting that IEX’s “unconflicted investor-friendly alternative” will “employ
technology designed to even playing fields, rather than exploit information asymmetry”
and that IEX will be “a stark alternative to other stock exchange models that seem to be
more focused on selling speed and data,” and noting that as an ATS, IEX allowed it and
its customers “to achieve best execution”); Oppenheimer Funds Letter; Murphy Letter
(arguing that IEX’s design should “help to limit and even eliminate” what it characterized

34

commenters noted IEX’s stated intent not to pursue “maker-taker” pricing and instead offer flat
transaction fees. 140 Some commenters praised IEX for offering fewer order types. 141 Several
commenters highlighted IEX’s “coil” delay, discussed in detail below, and asserted that it may

as “the electronic front running that is central to the problems in the market today”);
Lewis Letter; Keblish Letter; Secrist Letter; Stevens Letter; Oltean Letter; Meskill Letter;
fi360 Letter; TRS Letter; Lynch Letter; Jefferies Letter; T. Rowe Price Letter; Liquidnet
Letter; Sherman Letter; Anonymous March 18 Letter (group of anonymous traders noting
that they “have empirically found IEX orders to lower transactions costs” relative to other
exchanges); Israel Letter (noting that IEX’s 350 microsecond delay is “explicitly
designed to . . . level the playing field for ordinary investors”). One supportive
commenter focused on the fee structure for the IEX ATS, asserting that it is simple and
thus favors investors and issuers rather than traders seeking arbitrage profits. See
ModernIR Letter at 1-3. This commenter also asserts that trades in the IEX ATS
generally are not “offset by predatory activity,” which “offers a beneficial environment to
the money public companies seek: long-term committed capital.” See id. at 1. Some
commenters questioned the motive of other commenters, including exchanges, who
opposed the proposal. See Verret Letter at 2 (arguing that “incumbent firms have long
sought to utilize regulatory barriers to entry to minimize competition, and it would appear
a number of firms are presently using the regulatory comment process regarding IEX’s
application as a venue to replicate that strategy here”); Shatto Letter 2 at 1 (noting that
the critical commenters “do not represent investors or institutional investors” in arguing
that “the SEC does not have to preserve market advantages for these people”); Shatto
Letter 3; Stevens Letter; Crespo Letter; Meskill Letter; Brian S. Letter; Hovanec Third
Letter; Hovanec Fourth Letter; Hovanec Sixth Letter; Hovanec Seventh Letter.
140

See, e.g., Capital Group Letter; Southeastern Letter; Navari First Letter; Navari Second
Letter; Themis First Letter; Oppenheimer Funds Letter; Healthy Markets Letter;
Abel/Noser Letter; Goldman Sachs Letter; Liquidnet Letter; Franklin Templeton
Investments Letter; TRS Letter. The Commission notes that IEX will be required to
submit separate filings under Section 19(b) of the Act and Rule 19b-4 to establish fees
that it will charge to members and others persons using its facilities. Nevertheless, in its
Second Response Letter, IEX noted that, as an exchange, it intended to charge a flat
transaction fee. See IEX Second Response at 9.

141

See, e.g., Capital Group Letter; Southeastern Letter; Shatto First Letter; Navari First
Letter; Oppenheimer Funds Letter; Healthy Markets Letter; Norges Bank Letter; Burgess
Letter; fi360 Letter; TRS Letter. But see NYSE First Letter at 9 (arguing that IEX’s
proposed menu of order types is not necessarily “simple” and the potential different
combinations of instructions for limit orders is in the hundreds).

35

help counter latency arbitrage. 142 In addition, one commenter believed that the coil delay as
initially proposed should not be grounds for denying IEX’s exchange application, and suggested
that IEX be phased into the national market system under a pilot program so that the effect of
IEX’s access delay on the wider market could be better assessed. 143
Among the commenters who were critical of aspects of IEX’s proposal, most focused on
issues surrounding the coil, the operation of and advantages that IEX initially proposed to be
provided to IEX’s affiliated outbound router, and IEX’s proposed order types, which are
discussed in detail below. 144 Some commenters suggested that retail orders would not receive
142

See, e.g., T. Rowe Price Letter at 1-2; Navari Second Letter; Healthy Markets Letter at 24; Jefferies Letter at 3; Chen & Foley Letter at 2-3; Leuchtkafer Second Letter at 9;
Budish Letter at 4. See also Burgess Letter; Capital Group Letter; Franklin Templeton
Investments Letter; Schroeder M Letter; Leeson Letter; Lupinski Letter; Oorjitham
Letter; Eric K Letter; Grey Letter; Spear Letter; Baggins Letter; Nixon Letter; Campbell
Letter; Moses Letter; Huff Letter; Kaye Letter; Jean Letter; Gloy Letter; Givehchi Letter;
Kara Letter; Hiester Letter; Benites Letter; Eustace Letter; Ramirez Letter; Luce Letter;
Arnold Letter; Tidwell Letter; Doyle Letter; Long Letter; Kim Letter; Mannheim Letter;
Oppenheimer Funds Letter; Israel Letter.

143

See Angel Letter at 3-5. The pilot program suggested by this commenter would be to
measure the effect on the market of protecting IEX’s quotation notwithstanding the
“speed bump.” See id. at 4-5. According to the commenter, if the pilot caused material
harm, it could be halted, in which case IEX could still operate as an exchange but without
having its quotes protected under Regulation NMS. See id. at 5. See also Wolfe Letter at
3 (agreeing with the pilot approach suggested in the Angel Letter). IEX has not proposed
such an approach and therefore such an approach is not before the Commission. See
Exchange Act Section 19(a)(1).

144

See NYSE First Letter; Nasdaq First Letter; BATS First Letter; Citadel First Letter;
Citadel Second Letter; Citadel Third Letter; Hudson River Trading First Letter; Hudson
River Trading Second Letter; FIA First Letter. In addition, one commenter opposed to
approval of IEX’s exchange application asserted that IEX has not provided any data
establishing the negative aspects of speed-based trading that IEX’s intentional delay is
meant to counteract or any data that quantifies how its intentional delay would protect
investors from such speed-based trading in a way that existing exchanges do not. See
Modern Markets Initiative Letter. Another commenter opposed to IEX’s application
believed it is highly probable that the potential marginal savings in execution costs for the
“limited population that use IEX would not exceed the wide increase in infrastructure
costs for all market participants” as a result of further fragmentation of the market. See

36

better executions on IEX, 145 and that IEX has not used historical data or other methods to
support its investor protection claims. 146 Other commenters did not express a view on whether
the Commission should approve or disapprove IEX’s application. 147
2.

Trading System Overview

IEX will operate a fully automated electronic order book, and will not maintain or
operate a physical trading floor. Only broker-dealer members of IEX and entities that enter into
market access arrangements with members (collectively, “Users”) will have access to the IEX
system. 148 Users will be able to electronically submit market orders, limit orders, and numerous
other types of orders to the Exchange from remote locations. IEX will allow firms to register as
market makers with affirmative and negative market making obligations, but will not require
market makers to be registered before IEX lists or trades a security. 149 Non-marketable orders
submitted to IEX could be displayed or non-displayed, depending on the instructions indicated
by the IEX member submitting the order. 150 Displayed orders will be displayed on an
anonymous basis at a specified price. The IEX system will continuously and automatically
Loh Letter. See discussion, infra Section III.C., of IEX’s proposed POP/coil delay,
including the comments thereon.
145

See Markit Second Letter at 4-6; AK Financial Engineering Consultants First Letter;
Anonymous June 16 Letter.

146

See Anonymous March 14 Letter at 1-2. But see Anonymous March 18 Letter (group of
anonymous traders noting that they “have empirically found IEX orders to lower
transactions costs” relative to other exchanges).

147

See, e.g., Virtu Letter; Healthy Markets Letter; Tabb Letter; Aesthetic Integration Letter.

148

To obtain authorized access to the IEX System, each User must enter into a User
Agreement with IEX. See IEX Rule 11.130(a).

149

See IEX Rules 11.150 through 11.154. IEX’s rules relating to market makers are similar
to the rules of other national securities exchanges. See, e.g., BATS Exchange Rules 11.5
through 11.8.

150

See IEX Rule 11.220(a)(1).

37

match orders pursuant to price/time priority, provided that displayed orders and displayed
portions of orders will have priority over non-displayed orders and non-displayed portions of
orders at the same price without regard to time. 151 For any portion of an order that does not
execute on IEX, IEX will direct the unfilled portion to away markets for execution through IEX
Services LLC (“IEXS”), IEX’s wholly owned single-purpose outbound router, unless the terms
of the order direct IEX not to route such order away. 152
With respect to the price of executions that would occur on IEX, the IEX system is
designed to comply with the order protection requirements of Rule 611 of Regulation NMS, 153
commonly referred to as the “Order Protection Rule,” by requiring that, for any execution to
occur on the IEX Exchange during regular trading hours, the price must be equal to, or better
than, the “protected quotation,” unless an exception to Rule 611 applies. 154 IEX also will protect
the national protected best bid and offer during its pre-market and post-market sessions. 155 In
addition, the Commission believes that IEX’s rules address locked and crossed markets, as
required by Rule 610(d) of Regulation NMS, 156 in that they reflect that IEX is designed not to
disseminate interest that locks or crosses a protected quote, require Users to reasonably avoid

151

See IEX Rule 11.220(a)(1). The Commission notes that some commenters referenced a
feature of the IEX ATS called “broker priority.” See Citadel First Letter at 8; Birch Bay
Letter at 1-2; Loh Letter. IEX has not included as part of its Form 1 application a “broker
priority” feature and therefore that feature is not before the Commission as it considers
IEX’s Form 1 application.

152

See IEX Rule 11.230(b). See also Amendment Nos. 2 and 3.

153

17 CFR 242.611.

154

See IEX Rule 11.230(a)(2). See also 17 CFR 242.611 (defining “protected quotation”).

155

See IEX Rule 11.230(a)(2)(B).

156

17 CFR 242.610(d).

38

displaying interest that locks or crosses any protected quotation, and are reasonably designed to
assure the reconciliation of locked or crossed interest. 157
3.

Non-Displayed Order Types and Processing

Limit orders that a User marks as non-displayed will not be displayed to anyone and will
be ranked in the IEX system at their specified price, subject to the “Midpoint Price Constraint,”
which is a price sliding process that prevents non-displayed limit orders from being ranked in the
IEX system at a price that is more aggressive than the midpoint of the NBBO. 158 The Midpoint
Price Constraint will prevent a non-displayed limit order on IEX’s order book from resting at a
price that locks or crosses the NBBO.
Due to IEX’s Midpoint Price Constraint functionality, IEX has proposed a “Book
Recheck” functionality that is activated in response to a change to the NBBO, the IEX order
book, or when IEX receives inbound messages. When Book Recheck is activated, certain
resting, non-displayed orders become “active” 159 and eligible to execute (as the remover of
liquidity) against the updated contra-side in IEX’s order book. 160 As a result of the Book
Recheck functionality, these resting, non-displayed orders may execute against contra-side
orders on the order book that were ineligible for execution, or did not satisfy the order’s
conditions (i.e., minimum quantity), when they were originally booked. Through such
157

See IEX Rule 11.310.

158

See IEX Rule 11.190(h)(2). Specifically, a non-displayed order on IEX with a limit price
more aggressive than the midpoint of the NBBO would be priced at the midpoint, and the
price would automatically be adjusted in response to changes in the NBBO to be equal to
the less aggressive of the order’s limit price or the midpoint of the NBBO. Id.

159

The term “active order” is defined by IEX to mean an order checking against the IEX
order book for contra-side interest against which to execute, and includes new incoming
orders, orders posting to the order book after having been routed to away trading centers,
and orders re-checking the order book pursuant to IEX Rule 11.230(a)(4)(D).

160

See IEX Rule 11.230(a)(4)(D).

39

executions, Book Recheck also may help alleviate internal locks that may occur on IEX’s order
book at the midpoint of the NBBO in certain scenarios involving contra-side, non-displayed,
minimum quantity orders.
In addition, IEX proposed several pegged order types – primary peg, midpoint peg, and
discretionary peg – all of which would be non-displayed with prices that are automatically
adjusted by the IEX system in response to changes in the national best bid and offer (“NBBO”)
(subject to a limit price, if any). 161 As noted below, updates to these types of non-displayed
pegged orders would be processed within the IEX trading system without being subject to the
proposed coil delay. 162 Some commenters criticized IEX’s proposed non-displayed order types,
and in particular IEX’s proposed handling of pegged orders. 163 Some of these commenters also
specifically criticized IEX’s proposed discretionary peg order type. 164
IEX’s proposed discretionary peg order type is a non-displayed, pegged order that, upon
entry, is priced by the IEX system to be equal to the less aggressive of the midpoint of the NBBO
or the order’s limit price, if any. Any unexecuted portion of the order is posted non-displayed on
the order book and ranked at the less aggressive of the near-side primary quote (i.e., the NBB for
buy orders, the NBO for sell orders) or the order’s limit price, if any. The IEX system
161

See IEX Rule 11.190(a)-(b).

162

See note 206, infra, discussing how the proposed coil delay also does not apply to nondisplayed limit orders subject to the Midpoint Price Constraint.

163

See, e.g., FIA First Letter at 4; FIA Second Letter at 2; Citadel First Letter at 7-10;
Citadel Fifth Letter at 2-5; NYSE First Letter at 9-10; NYSE Third Letter at 4-7; Hudson
River Trading First Letter at 2-7; Jones C Letter at 2-3; Nasdaq Third Letter at 2. These
commenters argue that IEX’s proposed handling of resting pegged orders – which, as
detailed below, would occur without any delay from IEX’s POP/coil – would incentivize
dark liquidity over displayed liquidity on IEX. This argument is discussed in the section
below that addresses the POP/coil.

164

See NYSE First Letter at 10; NYSE Fourth Letter at 3-4; Citadel First Letter at 9-10;
Citadel Fifth Letter at 5-7; Nasdaq Third Letter at 2-3.

40

automatically adjusts the price and ranking of the order in response to changes in the NBB
(NBO) for buy (sell) orders so that it remains pegged at the near-side primary quote, up (down)
to the order’s limit price, if any. Once posted to the IEX order book, a discretionary peg order
can “exercise discretion” up to (for buy orders) or down to (for sell orders) the midpoint of the
NBBO in order to meet the limit price of active orders on the order book, but only when the IEX
system determines the near-side, primary quote to be “stable,” i.e., not in the process of moving
down (up) in the case of buy (sell) orders. If the IEX system deems the near-side primary quote
to be “unstable” (sometimes referred to as a “crumbling quote”) and therefore in the process of
moving down (up) in the case of buy (sell) orders, the discretionary peg order will not be
permitted to exercise any discretion in order to meet the limit price of an active order, and will be
executable only at its pegged price, i.e., the near-side primary quote.
Quote “stability” or “instability” is an assessment that the IEX system makes in what IEX
describes as real-time, based on a pre-determined, objective set of conditions that are detailed in
IEX’s proposed rule. 165 By not permitting resting discretionary peg orders to execute at a price
that is more aggressive than the primary quote during periods of quote “instability,” the IEX
system is intended to attempt to protect resting discretionary peg orders from unfavorable
executions when the market is moving against them. Once the market has moved and the IEX
system deems the near-side primary quote to be “stable,” discretionary peg orders are re-ranked
at the new near-side primary quote, and permitted to exercise discretion up to (for buy orders) or
down to (for sell orders) the midpoint of the NBBO in order to meet the limit price of active

165

See, e.g., IEX Rules 11.190(b)(10) (concerning the discretionary peg order type) and
11.190(g) (concerning quote stability). This functionality is also referred to as IEX’s
“crumbling quote” indicator.

41

orders on the order book and thereby potentially provide price improvement to such active
orders.
Certain commenters that criticized IEX’s discretionary peg order assert that IEX’s
determination of quote stability and the resulting implications for resting discretionary peg orders
amounts to IEX performing services that are typically performed by broker-dealers exercising
discretion over customer orders. 166 Two of these commenters claim that allowing IEX to offer
its discretionary peg functionality would be inconsistent with the Commission’s prior
disapproval of a Nasdaq proposal to establish “benchmark orders” and suggests that the
Commission articulate when it is and is not appropriate for an exchange to offer services that
have traditionally been performed by broker-dealers. 167 The other commenter contends that, due
to what it refers to as “the doctrine of regulatory immunity,” IEX would be shielded from
liability for any errors it makes in determining quote stability whereas broker-dealers can be
liable to their customers for order handling errors. 168 This commenter also asserts that IEX’s
discretionary peg order is overly complex and “would potentially open the door to a virtually
infinite range of exchange predictive order types.” 169
With regard to its discretionary peg order, IEX states that any action taken with respect to
such an order is based on system logic and entirely automated, like other pegged orders. 170 IEX

166

See, e.g., NYSE First Letter at 10; NYSE Fourth Letter at 2-4; Citadel First Letter at 910; Citadel Fifth Letter at 5-7; Nasdaq Third Letter at 2-3.

167

See NYSE First Letter at 10 (citing Securities Exchange Act Release No. 68629 (January
11, 2013), 78 FR 3928 (January 17, 2013) (SR-NASDAQ-2012-059) (“Benchmark Order
Disapproval”); NYSE Fourth Letter at 3-4; Nasdaq Third Letter at 2-3.

168

See Citadel First Letter at 9-10.

169

Citadel Fifth Letter at 6-7.

170

See IEX First Response at 17.

42

also represents that its rules set forth “the precise mathematical formula” that IEX uses to
determine whether a “crumbling quote” situation exists. 171 In addition, IEX notes that other
exchanges offer non-displayed pegging and discretionary order types and asserts that IEX’s
discretionary peg order type does not raise any novel regulatory issues. 172 Further, IEX argues
that the Commission’s disapproval of Nasdaq’s proposal to offer “benchmark orders” was based
on Nasdaq’s failure to adequately explain “how it would apply the controls required by Rule
15c3-5 under the Exchange Act to benchmark child orders” and the fact that “benchmark orders
would not initially be directed to the Nasdaq matching engine, raising potential competitive
concerns in relation to Nasdaq members.” 173 IEX claims that the Commission’s disapproval of
Nasdaq’s proposal “clearly differentiates the proposed Nasdaq functionality from IEX’s
Discretionary Peg order type” and that IEX’s discretionary peg functionality “is entirely different
than the Nasdaq proposal to offer benchmark order routing strategies.” 174
The Commission does not believe that its disapproval of the Nasdaq benchmark order
proposal is apposite here. In contrast to IEX’s proposed discretionary peg order, Nasdaq’s
proposed “benchmark orders” were not actually exchange orders that would have been
executable by the Nasdaq matching engine upon entry. Rather, the initial parent order would
have been directed to a third-party application that operated a suite of order execution algorithms
(i.e., Volume Weighted Average Price, Time Weighted Average Price, or Percent of Volume). 175
The algorithm thereafter would have attempted to replicate the selected benchmark by generating
171

See IEX Second Response at 18.

172

See IEX First Response at 17.

173

See IEX Second Response at 13.

174

See id.

175

See Benchmark Order Disapproval, supra note 167, at 3928.

43

and routing child orders to the Nasdaq matching engine or other trading centers. 176 The
Commission determined that there were inadequate assurances in Nasdaq’s proposal as to how
the child orders generated by the Nasdaq application would be subject to appropriate risk
controls under the Market Access Rule, Rule 15c3-5 under the Act, and how Nasdaq’s provision
of such services would not impose an undue burden on competition. 177 In contrast, IEX’s
discretionary peg order is an order type that is received directly into the IEX book and executable
by the matching engine upon entry, and thus the same issues of whether child orders generated
by an exchange facility are subject to appropriate risk controls under the Market Access Rule or
would result in the exchange imposing an undue burden on competition are not implicated by
IEX’s discretionary peg order type.
The Commission also notes that existing exchanges offer both discretion and pegging
functionalities, including the combination of both of those features in a single order type. 178
Thus, an order type that offers both discretion and pegging features is not novel. Nevertheless,
IEX’s proposed discretionary peg order type is unique in the way that the discretion functionality
will be turned “on” or “off” depending on IEX’s quote stability determination. With respect to
this feature, IEX Rule 11.190(g) delineates the specific conditions under which IEX
discretionary peg orders will or will not be eligible for execution up (down) to the midpoint by
setting forth the mathematical formula that IEX uses to determine quote stability. 179 IEX has
thus encoded in its rule the totality of the discretionary feature of its proposed discretionary peg
176

See id.

177

17 CFR 240.15c3-5. See also Benchmark Order Disapproval, supra note 167.

178

See, e.g., Nasdaq Rule 4703(g).

179

See IEX Rule 11.190(g). One commenter asserted that IEX’s crumbling quote
determination is novel but also fully transparent, as IEX’s rules disclose the full equation
for determining whether there is a crumbling quote. See Healthy Markets Letter at 5.

44

order type, which the Commission believes is a close variant on the discretion and pegging
functionality that presently exists on other exchanges. Moreover, as a self-regulatory
organization, IEX would be required to submit a proposed rule change to the Commission
pursuant to Section 19(b) of the Act 180 prior to implementing any change to the proposed
discretionary peg order type, including the quote stability formula. Thus, contrary to the
assertions of commenters critical of IEX’s proposed “discretionary” peg order type, 181 the
Commission does not believe that the hardcoded conditionality of the IEX proposed
“discretionary” peg order type provides IEX with actual discretion or the ability to exercise
individualized judgment when executing an order. Rather, if IEX’s fixed formula determines the
quote to be stable, the discretionary peg order can execute up to the midpoint; if it does not deem
the quote to be stable, then it will hold the order to its pegged price. As such, IEX would not
exercise discretion over the routing and execution of a resting order. 182 The Commission
reiterates that if, for any reason, IEX determines to alter or deviate from its quote stability
formula set forth in its rule as it applies to determining quote stability when handling

180

15 U.S.C. 78s(b).

181

See supra note 166.

182

Thus, the Commission believes that one commenter’s concerns related to what it refers to
as “the doctrine of regulatory immunity” (see supra note 168) does not present any novel
issues. As discussed, the Commission does not believe that IEX’s quote stability
determination provides IEX with actual discretion or the ability to exercise individualized
judgment when executing an order. IEX will have liability similar to other registered
national securities exchanges with respect to its order types, including its “discretionary”
peg order type. Further, in response to this commenter’s additional concern that the
discretionary peg order “would potentially open the door to a virtually infinite range of
exchange predictive order types” (see supra note 169), the Commission notes that new
exchange proposed order types are subject to the rule filing process of Section 19(b) of
the Act and Rule 19b-4 and the standards in Exchange Act Section 6(b), among other
provisions. See also Form 19b-4, General Instructions.

45

discretionary peg orders, IEX would need to file a proposed rule change with the Commission
pursuant to Section 19(b) of the Act 183 prior to implementing any such change.
4.

Order Type Transparency and Complexity, and Odd Lots

More generally, some commenters contend that IEX’s order types are not adequately
described in IEX’s rulebook, or suggest that they are uniquely complex. 184 In addition, one
commenter argued that IEX should be required to add additional detail to its rules, including
adding examples and a justification of the statutory basis for their consistency with the Exchange
Act. 185 In response, IEX asserts that it “provides the same basic order types that are offered by
all markets, along with the standard modifiers that are sought by investors and their brokers.” 186
The Commission believes that IEX constructed its proposed order type rules in a manner
that is reasonably designed to present sufficient and comprehensive information on the available
options and possible combinations. While IEX is responsible for ensuring that its rules fully and
accurately reflect its systems capabilities and operations, the Commission believes that IEX has
structured many of its rules using a template-like approach that is designed to provide basic
information about fundamental combinations and system functionality. In addition, the
Commission does not believe that IEX’s order type rules are uniquely complex in light of
183

15 U.S.C. 78s(b).

184

See, e.g., NYSE First Letter at 9 (noting that certain of [IEX’s] proposed order types,
such as the discretionary pegged order, are even more complex than those of other
exchanges” and that the “tally of potential different combinations of instructions for limit
orders alone is in the hundreds”). See also Citadel First Letter at 8-9; Nasdaq First Letter
at 1-2; Nasdaq Third Letter at 1-2. Other commenters suggested the opposite though, and
applauded IEX for offering a limited number of order types, which they assert simplifies
trading and reduces risks for investors. See, e.g., Healthy Markets Letter at 4;
Oppenheimer Letter at 2; Southeastern Letter at 1; Navari Letter at 1; Capital Group
Letter at 2; fi360 Letter at 3.

185

See Nasdaq First Letter at 1-2.

186

See IEX Second Response at 8.

46

existing exchange order type offerings. Accordingly, the Commission believes that IEX’s order
type rules are consistent with the Act and, in particular, the Section 6(b)(5) requirement that an
exchange’s rules be designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, remove
impediments to and perfect the mechanisms of a free and open market and a national market
system, and protect investors and the public interest. 187
In addition, one commenter noted that IEX proposes not to display odd-lot orders and
suggests that the Commission should consider whether this would systematically disadvantage
smaller orders that might be submitted by retail investors. 188 In response, IEX noted that current
exchanges vary in how they handle odd-lots, and stated that IEX’s approach “is designed to
ensure that the IEX proprietary market data feed does not include information that cannot be
reported to the SIPs.” 189 IEX also contends that the commenter’s conflation of the treatment of
odd-lots with the treatment of retail investors is improper because “these do not necessarily go
hand-in-hand.” 190 The Commission is not aware of any evidence that the non-display of odd lot
orders through proprietary market data feeds would systematically disadvantage retail investors.
The Commission does not believe this approach would unfairly discriminate against any type of
investor, as any investor may use odd-lot orders.
5.

The POP and the Coil

IEX’s Point-of-Presence (“POP”) and “coil” infrastructure (collectively referred to as the
“POP/coil delay”) is how IEX Users will connect to IEX, and is one of the most widely
187

See 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5).

188

See Nasdaq First Letter at 4.

189

See IEX Second Response at 13.

190

See id. (noting that “one study found that ‘20-25% of trades initiated by HFTs are odd
lots, and that trades initiated by HFTs are more likely to be odd lots than trades initiated
by non-HFTs.’”)

47

commented upon features of IEX. As described in the Order Instituting Proceedings, several
commenters expressed concern, among other things, that IEX’s initially-published Form 1 lacked
specific detail about how the POP/coil structure would work, including what messages and
activity would – and would not – be subject to the delay. 191 IEX responded by supplementing
the record through its first two response letters, and then amending its Form 1 in Amendment
Nos. 2, 3, and 4. 192 IEX did include additional detail in proposed new rules as part of
Amendment Nos. 2, 3, and 4 and the Commission published notice of those changes and
solicited comment on them. 193 The POP/coil delay is material to the operation of IEX and so
materially affects access of Users to the system that, as an exchange, IEX’s rules must reflect
with specificity the purpose, operation, and effect of the POP and coil. The Commission notes
that IEX’s two letters in response to comments provided the necessary detailed information on
the POP and coil, and IEX’s Amendment No. 2 contained, among other things, a proposed new
rule to detail the POP and coil. The Commission believes that IEX has addressed the
commenters’ concern by adding a sufficiently detailed new rule to its rulebook to provide a
description of the POP/coil structure. The Commission notes that commenters did not raise
further concerns on this issue after publication of Amendment No. 2.

191

See, e.g., NYSE First Letter; Nasdaq First Letter; Citadel First Letter at 10-11; Citadel
Second Letter at 2-3; BATS First Letter at 2; Weldon Letter. IEX noted that the POP/coil
is described in its Form ATS, which has been published on IEX’s website since it
commenced operations as an ATS in October 2013, and has been “widely chronicled”
across numerous publications. See IEX Second Response at 17-18.

192

See IEX First Response; IEX Second Response; Amendment Nos. 2, 3 and 4. Under IEX
Rule 11.510, the IEX routing logic would be able to access the IEX book via an access
delay that imposes 350 microseconds of latency, identical to the POP/coil delay
experienced by non-affiliated IEX users when they submit a non-routable order to the
IEX book.

193

See Order Instituting Proceedings, supra note 13.

48

Access to IEX by all Users will be obtained through a POP, 194 which IEX represents is
located in Secaucus, New Jersey. 195 According to IEX, after entering through the POP, a User’s
electronic message sent to the IEX trading system must physically traverse the IEX “coil,” which
is a box of compactly coiled optical fiber cable equivalent to a prescribed physical distance of
61,625 meters (approximately 38 miles). 196 After exiting the coil, the User’s message travels an
additional physical distance to the IEX trading system, located in Weehawken, New Jersey. 197
According to IEX, when the length of coil is combined with the physical distance from the POP
to the IEX trading system in Weehawken, it equates to an equivalent 350 microseconds of
latency. 198 All incoming messages (e.g., orders to buy or sell and any modification to a
previously sent open order) from any User would traverse the coil from the POP in order to
initially reach IEX. 199 In addition, all outbound messages from IEX back to a User (e.g.,
confirmations of an execution that occurred on IEX) would pass through the same route in
reverse. 200 IEX’s direct proprietary market data feed, which is an optional data feed that IEX

194

See IEX Rule 11.510; see also Amendment Nos. 2 and 3.

195

See IEX First Response at 3.

196

See IEX First Response at 3. The Commission notes, by way of analogy, that this is
equivalent to a trading center locating its matching engine a certain distance (equivalent
to the distance traversed during the POP/coil delay) from its nearest user or, alternatively,
not permitting any user to be located closer than that distance to the matching engine.

197

See Exhibit E to IEX’s Form 1 submission, at 12. See also IEX First Response at 3.

198

See IEX Rule 11.510 (“Communications with the System from the POP are subject to an
equivalent 350 microseconds of latency between the network access point of the POP and
the System at the primary data center (due to traversing the physical distance provided by
coiled optical fiber and geographic distribution)”); see also IEX First Response at 3. A
microsecond is one millionth of a second.

199

See id.

200

See id. As a result, a non-routable immediate-or-cancel (“IOC”) order, which is a type of
order that IEX would permit Users to send to the IEX system, would traverse the
proposed POP/coil (and its attendant 350 microsecond delay) before arriving at the IEX

49

would make available to subscribers, also would traverse the coil before being accessible to
Users at the POP. 201
Further, under IEX’s Form 1 as amended, there is one type of inbound message and one
type of outbound message that would not traverse the POP/coil, specifically:
1. Inbound proprietary market data feeds from other trading centers as well as the SIP
feed to the IEX system would not traverse the POP/coil; and
2. Outbound transaction and quote messages sent from IEX to the applicable securities
information processor (“SIP”) would not pass through the POP/coil, but instead
would be sent directly from the IEX system to the SIP processor for inclusion in the
public consolidated market data feeds on the same basis as any other exchange. 202
In addition, updates to resting pegged orders on IEX would be processed within the IEX
trading system and would not require that separate messages be transmitted from outside the

system and potentially executing against a displayed quotation on IEX. Likewise, the
response from the IEX system to the User indicating the action taken by the IEX system
with respect to such IOC order also would traverse the POP/coil and experience a 350
microsecond delay. See id. The POP/coil delay’s consistency with the Act is discussed
further below in this section. See also Final Interpretation, supra note 13.
201

See IEX Rule 11.510; see also IEX First Response at 3.

202

See IEX Rule 11.510(c)(2); see also IEX First Response at 4; . As explained in the Order
Instituting Proceedings, under IEX’s Form 1 as it existed prior to Amendment No. 2,
orders routed outbound from IEX through IEXS to away trading centers for execution (as
well as reports back to IEX from those away trading centers) also would not have
traversed the POP/coil (though execution and transaction reports sent from IEX back to
Users would traverse the POP/coil and thus would be delayed). This is because IEX
would have initially directed the entirety of all orders, including routable orders, to the
IEX matching engine and then routed away any excess shares via IEXS directly (and
without having to first pass through the POP/coil delay as it routes shares outbound). In
Amendment Nos. 2, 3, and 4, IEX proposed to re-design the way the IEX system would
handle routable orders, as described below, in order to place its outbound routing
function on parity with competing broker-dealers.

50

trading system, which would otherwise traverse the POP/coil, for each update. 203 The effect of
this, in connection with the fact that orders sent inbound to IEX must traverse the POP/coil while
IEX’s matching engine will take in direct market data feeds from other trading centers without
any POP/coil delay, 204 is that IEX intentionally employs a methodology using physical path
latency to affect how long it takes for a packet of information to travel from the User to its
matching engine but does not delay the IEX system’s ability to detect and react to price changes
at other trading centers. 205
Accordingly, IEX imposes an intentional delay on Users’ ability to access IEX’s
matching engine but the delay does not apply to IEX’s adjustment of resting pegged order prices
on its book. 206 This provides IEX’s matching engine with a time advantage 207 to allow it to more
effectively manage the price update process for non-displayed pegged orders resting on its book
when the market moves. However, as a by-product of delaying access to non-displayed pegged
orders on its book, IEX necessarily delays access to all other interest on its book, including its
displayed quotation.

203

See IEX Rule 11.510(c)(1) (noting that order book processing occurs within the IEX
system and does not traverse the POP); see also IEX First Response at 3-4.

204

See IEX Rule 11.510; see also IEX First Response at 4.

205

See IEX Rule 11.410 (detailing the direct feeds that IEX uses as the primary source of
market data that it uses to inform its matching engine’s view of the consolidated best
prices in the marketplace).

206

In addition, the POP/coil delay does not apply to the operation of IEX’s Midpoint Price
Constraint, discussed above, which affects resting non-displayed limit orders with limit
prices that are more aggressive than the midpoint of the NBBO. See IEX Rule
11.190(h)(2). References herein to “pegged” orders for purposes of discussing IEX’s
adjustment of resting order prices with no access delay includes non-displayed limit
orders subject to the operation of the Midpoint Price Constraint, which are effectively
pegged by IEX to the NBBO midpoint, subject to the order’s limit price.

207

See IEX Second Response at 2.

51

In other words, the purpose of IEX’s coil is to provide an intentional buffer that slows
down incoming orders to allow IEX’s matching engine to update the prices of resting “pegged”
orders when away prices change to protect resting pegged orders from the possibility of adverse
selection when the market moves to a new midpoint price. 208 The allowable price of a “pegged”
order will change whenever the best displayed price across all exchanges changes, but it takes
time for IEX’s system to receive other exchange data feeds and recalculate the price of each
pegged order resting on its book. For various reasons, IEX’s systems may not recalculate prices
as fast as some of the fastest low-latency traders in the market are able to send orders accessing
pegged orders resting on IEX at potentially “stale” prices. The Commission believes that the
application of the POP/coil delay delays the ability of low-latency market participants to take a
“stale”-priced resting pegged order on IEX (i.e., before IEX finishes its process of re-pricing the
pegged order in response to changes in the NBBO) based on those market participants’ ability to
more effectively digest direct market data feeds and swiftly submit an order before IEX finishes
its process of updating the prices of pegged orders resting on its book. According to IEX, this
setup is designed to “ensure that no market participants can take action on IEX in reaction to
changes in market prices before IEX is aware of the same price changes on behalf of all IEX
members.” 209
Aside from whether the POP/coil delay affects IEX’s ability to have an “automated” and
thus “protected” quotation under Regulation NMS, discussed below, 210 the Commission has
208

However, as a byproduct of delaying access to non-displayed pegged orders on its book,
IEX necessarily delays access to all other interest on its book, including its displayed
quotation.

209

See IEX First Response at 4.

210

See infra Section III.C.7., Protected Quote Status, for a discussion of the status of IEX’s
quotation under Regulation NMS.

52

considered whether it is consistent with the Act and the rules thereunder, in particular Section 6
of the Act. Among other things, Section 6 requires that an exchange’s rules be designed to
protect investors and the public interest, not be designed to permit unfair discrimination among
brokers, dealers, or customers, and not impose any unnecessary or inappropriate burden on
competition. For IEX’s POP/coil delay, discussed below, the Commission finds that IEX’s
proposed rules are designed to operate in a manner that is consistent with the Act in that they are
designed to protect investors and the public interest, are not designed to permit unfair
discrimination, and would not impose any unnecessary or inappropriate burden on competition.
The Commission first considers IEX’s POP/coil delay as applied to outbound data. The
POP/coil delay applies to IEX’s outbound proprietary market data, other than the data it sends to
the SIP. Doing so allows market participants to execute on IEX while slightly delaying the news
of that execution to IEX’s proprietary market data feed and to the participants to the trade
(through not to the applicable SIP), which in effect allows the order sender to avoid the potential
for information leakage when subsequently accessing liquidity on other markets before news of
its execution on IEX could affect resting liquidity on those markets (e.g., potentially resulting in
cancellations or re-pricing of interest resting on away markets). Exchanges are not required to
offer proprietary market data, but those that do must offer it to all market participants in a not
unfairly discriminatory manner. 211 Because IEX delays its proprietary market data feed
uniformly to all IEX users, as well as to its routing logic, the Commission believes that the
outbound delay of IEX market data is not unfairly discriminatory.
The Commission similarly concludes that IEX’s inbound POP/coil delay is not unfairly
discriminatory and does not impose an unnecessary or inappropriate burden on competition. The
211

See 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5).

53

delay imposed on inbound messages benefits resting pegged orders on IEX because that delay,
together with the fact that IEX takes in direct data feeds from other exchanges unencumbered by
the delay, allows IEX to update the prices of resting pegged orders in response to changes in the
NBBO (which may include displayed orders on IEX) as quickly as IEX is able to receive data
and calculate it before incoming messages, including incoming orders seeking to execute against
pegged orders, reach the matching engine. At the same time, the POP/coil delay appears to
provide no protection or benefits for displayed orders or non-displayed orders at fixed limit
prices. 212 Several commenters critiqued this aspect of IEX’s design as treating resting pegged
orders preferentially, which they assert will incentivize dark liquidity on IEX (in the form of
pegged orders in particular) over displayed liquidity. 213 Most of these commenters suggested
that this is contrary to the central purpose of an exchange to provide price discovery through
displayed liquidity, and that price discovery, and overall market quality, will deteriorate as a
212

See, e.g., Budish Letter at 2, 4-5 (noting that IEX’s POP/coil structure would prevent
latency arbitrage of non-displayed pegged orders on IEX but would not prevent latency
arbitrage of standard displayed limit orders). The POP/coil, because it will delay all
inbound message traffic from all members equally, will not provide any advantages for
displayed and non-pegged orders. For example, if a displayed limit order to sell is resting
on IEX at $10, and away markets all move to a higher price of $10.01 to sell, the User
resting at IEX may also want to adjust the price of its order to track the market.
However, pursuant to its rules, IEX cannot unilaterally adjust the price of a non-pegged
limit order resting on its book at $10; rather, the User needs to send a message to IEX
with instructions on what to do. As it is doing that, a low-latency trader may be able to
send in an order to buy against that $10 offer to sell, and may be able to reach the POP
before the member that posted that order is able to send in a cancellation and replace it
with an order to sell at $10.01. Since the low-latency trader’s message to buy and the
member’s cancel message both must enter through the POP and traverse the coil, the race
simply takes place at the POP and therefore the two market participants are in the same
position on IEX as they would be on other markets without intentional access delays.

213

See FIA First Letter at 4; FIA Second Letter at 2; Citadel First Letter at 7-10; Citadel
Fifth Letter at 2-5; NYSE First Letter at 9-10; NYSE Third Letter at 4-7; Hudson River
Trading First Letter at 2-7; Hudson River Trading Second Letter at 2-4; Jones C Letter at
2-3; Nasdaq Third Letter at 2.

54

result. 214 Commenters on the Notice of Interpretation also criticized what they termed IEX’s
“selective” application of its POP/coil delay. One such commenter opined that geographic

214

See NYSE First Letter at 9-10 (stating that IEX would be unique “in that all pegged
orders would be dark and pegged orders would be provided advantages that other orders
on IEX would not enjoy” and that the POP/coil and Book Recheck combine to favor
pegged orders to such an extent that “it is likely that IEX’s order book would be
composed primarily, or entirely, of these dark, pegged orders and would not be
performing one of the central functions of a registered exchange, which is to foster the
price discovery process through the display of orders”); NYSE Third Letter at 4, 7;
Citadel First Letter at 8 (suggesting that “IEX’s real aim is to create a dark pool on a lit
venue to provide itself with regulatory immunity and other benefits afforded to national
securities exchanges”); Hudson River Trading First Letter at 2-7 (expressing concern that
IEX’s POP would harm price discovery because it offers no protection to displayed limit
orders, which “provide the foundation for price discovery,” but delays incoming limit
orders and outgoing market data for the benefit of non-transparent pegged orders);
Hudson River Trading Second Letter at 4; Jones C Letter at 2-3 (arguing that “IEX is
effectively using the discriminatory delay to tilt the playing field, artificially attracting
pegged orders from other venues” which will “force other exchanges to introduce similar
disparities to avoid losing pegged orders to IEX” and “which will result in more dark
liquidity and less timely price discovery market-wide”). One such commenter offered an
analysis that attempted to quantify the purported economic advantages and disadvantages
implicated by IEX’s proposed handling of resting pegged orders (including the cost to
market participants routing orders to IEX when resting pegged orders on IEX, due to the
access delay, “fade” to worse prices before they can be accessed), while also noting the
limitations of his analysis (including that “[i]n reality, market participants may change their
order submission behavior to substantially blunt IEX’s pegged order repricing scheme” by
adjusting for the latency imposed by the POP/coil delay when routing to IEX). See Jones C
Letter at 3-5. Other commenters criticized that commenter’s analysis. See Themis Third
Letter; Hovanec Seventh Letter. In particular, one of these commenters rebutted the
analysis as “just measuring transient effects on an NBBO after a trade and then
attributing all of that fade as a ‘disadvantage’ of the speed bump, which he puts at $400
million annually just for Nasdaq activity.” See Themis Third Letter at 2.
Another commenter recommended that IEX be approved as a “manual” market without a
protected quote, unless it developed and offered a “bypass” order type that “that foregoes
potential price improvement associated with interacting with hidden mid-point peg orders
to by-pass the delay and interact with protected quotes.” See Hudson River Trading
Second Letter at 4. The Commission notes that midpoint pegged orders, by definition,
would be priced more aggressively than IEX’s displayed quotation, and thus by foregoing
execution against such midpoint pegged orders in order to execute against less
aggressively priced displayed quotations, the suggested “bypass” order type would
appear to violate the price priority of the resting midpoint pegged orders. In addition, if
such an order type were able to execute against resting non-displayed primary pegged

55

delays are “inescapable” but “do, in fact, complicate the markets in the presence of Reg NMS”
and argued that the proposed interpretation should not apply to “intentional delays that are
selective and therefore not equivalent to geographic latencies.” 215 Another commenter criticized

interest on IEX, the resting primary peg order would be subject to latency arbitrage as a
result of the incoming order bypassing the POP/coil delay. The Commission further
notes that the issue of permissible delays in accessing protection quotations is addressed
in the Commission’s Interpretation Regarding Automated Quotations Under Regulation
NMS, which provides that, in the context of determining whether a trading center
maintains an “automated quotation” for purposes of Rule 611 of Regulation NMS, the
term “immediate” used in Rule 600(b)(3) does not by itself prohibit a trading center from
implementing an intentional access delay that is de minimis – i.e., a delay so short as to
not frustrate the purposes of Rule 611 by impairing fair and efficient access to an
exchange’s quotations. See Final Interpretation, supra note 13.
215

FIA PTG Comment Letter on Notice of Proposed Interpretation (“Interp Letter”) at 6.
The commenter criticized the proposed interpretation for not distinguishing “between
geographic delays, which apply equally to all information communicated between remote
locations, and selective delays like those proposed by IEX” and argued that such delays,
“even very short ones, open the door for behaviors that are fundamentally inconsistent
with Reg NMS” and “would make Reg NMS requirements around order protection and
locked and crossed markets essentially unworkable.” Id. at 2-3. Another commenter
argued that an intentional delay can impair a market participant’s ability to access a
protected quotation as it could create an “un-level playing field” when “an exchange
could update certain orders before allowing members to update theirs.” See MMI Interp
Letter at 1. The commenter noted that an investor selling to a resting pegged order that
IEX updates while the customer is traversing the POP/coil delay would end up selling to
the pegged order at a worse price than she would have sold at had IEX not been able to
reprice the pegged order outside of the POP/coil delay. See MMI Interp Letter at 2. In
other words, according to that commenter, IEX’s POP/coil delay only protects certain
investors (those with dark peg orders resting on IEX) and may harm other long-term
investors who cannot compete “against the exchange’s superior speed.” See MMI Interp
Letter at 2. The commenter also argued that selective access delays may interfere with a
broker’s best execution obligation, and may distort order execution and routing. See
MMI Interp Letter at 2-3. Another commenter opposed “non-symmetrical” delays and
argued that they add complexity and reduce the likelihood of capturing visible liquidity in
the equities markets, which can impact liquidity in the options markets. See Weldon
Interp Letter at 1-2. While true that IEX’s POP/coil delay benefits resting non-displayed
orders, investors routing to displayed liquidity on IEX will not “compete” against IEX in
the sense of racing to access a resting order before IEX can reprice it – because IEX will
not reprice displayed orders, there is no such race. Further, the Commission does not
believe that such a delay will interfere with best execution or distort routing so long as it

56

a potential access delay that would “treat dark orders more favorably than displayed orders,”
which it characterized as a “significant departure from the way current exchanges operate” and
“would lead to less transparent markets, wider spreads and higher costs for investors.” 216 These
commenters’ concern with the “selective” application of an access delay is not so much that an
intentional delay is necessarily inconsistent with Rule 611, but that an exchange might impose
the delay on others but not itself, thereby advantaging certain types of orders (i.e., pegged orders)
or market participants over others. 217
Other commenters believed that IEX’s proposed re-pricing of resting pegged orders
without any POP/coil delay would not be problematic. 218 One commenter found no material
distinction between pegged orders on IEX not being subject to the POP/coil delay and how

is de minimis – i.e., a delay so short as to not frustrate the purposes of Rule 611 by
impairing fair and efficient access to an exchange’s protected quotations.
216

See NYSE Interp Letter at 4 (arguing that IEX’s “preferential treatment of resting dark
orders” is novel because “[w]hile other markets update pegged orders in the same way as
IEX, they do not intentionally delay the ability to update displayed orders on their book
or to enter or cancel interest”). See also Citadel Interp Letter at 8. One commenter
opined that allowing an exchange to re-price displayed orders during and outside of an
access delay “would render such orders conditional” and “result in precisely the kind of
‘maybe’ quotations Rule 611 was designed to prevent.” Markit Interp Letter at 2-3. The
commenter urged the Commission to explicitly preclude exchanges from “utilizing the
delay to re-price displayed orders.” Id. at 2. The Commission notes that IEX will only
reprice pegged orders, which are non-displayed. Non-displayed orders are not reflected
in an exchange’s quotations, and Rule 611 applies order protection to publicly displayed
quotes only. Accordingly, an access delay that does not allow the repricing of displayed
orders does not impact an exchange’s displayed quotation, and cannot be said to lead to
“maybe” quotations.

217

See, e.g., Citadel Interp Letter at 10 (recommending that intentional delays should “only
be permissible where the intentional delay applies equally to all market participants and
order types” where “no order type, such as pegged orders, would be permitted to
circumvent access delays directly or indirectly by repricing without delay”).

218

See Markit Second Letter at 3; Healthy Markets Letter at 4-5. See also Trirogoff Letter
(critiquing other commenters’ arguments likening IEX’s pegged order functionality to
“last look” functionality).

57

existing exchanges reprice resting pegged orders, noting that existing exchanges reprice resting
pegged orders without being subject to “non-trivial” latency associated with transiting the
exchanges’ order entry gateways. 219
In response, IEX represented that it will provide a “powerful incentive” for Users to
submit displayed orders because displayed orders will have priority over non-displayed orders at
the same price. 220 IEX also noted that it seeks to “bring the benefits of exchange oversight and
regulation to more of the trading that currently happens off-exchange.” 221
The Commission does not believe that the advantage IEX provides to pegged orders is
unfairly discriminatory or imposes an unnecessary or inappropriate burden on competition.
Rather, it is designed to ensure that pegged orders on IEX operate as designed and as reflected in
IEX’s rules by accurately tracking the NBBO, and that users of pegged orders on IEX can better
achieve their goals when their pegged orders operate efficiently. To accomplish this, IEX slows
down incoming order messages by 350 microseconds to allow it to update resting pegged orders
when the NBBO changes, so that the resting pegged orders are accurately pegged to current
market prices. Without this protection, pegged orders resting on IEX have the potential to be
subject to “latency arbitrage” by those market participants using very sophisticated latencysensitive technology, who can rapidly aggregate market data feeds and react faster than IEX to
NBBO updates. In such case, pegged orders on IEX could be executed at disadvantageous
219

See Healthy Markets Letter at 4-5.

220

See id.; see also IEX First Response at 17. The Commission notes that IEX represents
that it intends to propose discount pricing for displayed orders. Any such proposal will
be subject to the rule filing requirements of Section 19 of the Act and Rule 19b-4
thereunder.

221

See IEX Second Response at 12-13. IEX noted that as an ATS, 8.76% of IEX matched
volume resulted from displayed orders and it expects that number to “increase
substantially” if IEX becomes a registered exchange. See id. at 12.

58

“stale” prices that have not been updated to reflect the new NBBO. Further, because nondisplayed pegged order types will be available to all Users of IEX, all Users will be able to
benefit from this order type on IEX and thus utilize the POP/coil delay.
IEX’s proposed POP/coil delay is thus narrowly designed to allow IEX to update the
prices of non-displayed resting pegged orders so that they can achieve their intended purpose pricing that is accurately benchmarked to the NBBO. Though the POP/coil delay does not
benefit displayed limit orders or non-pegged non-displayed limit orders, such orders would not
benefit from the symmetrical POP/coil delay because their purpose is to post or execute
consistent with their fixed limit price. The Commission thus finds that IEX’s ability to update
the prices of resting pegged orders during the POP/coil delay is not designed to unfairly
discriminate among members to the detriment of investors or the public interest and is intended
to benefit investors that post pegged orders.
The Commission is engaged in an ongoing broad-based review of equity market
structure, including whether there are appropriate incentives to display trading interest and
whether the level of undisplayed liquidity may be impairing price discovery. 222 Through its

222

See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 61358 (January 14, 2010), 75 FR 3594
(January 21, 2010) (Concept Release on Equity Market Structure). While the
Commission believes that IEX’s application for exchange registration is consistent with
the Act, the Commission notes that IEX’s representation to propose and adopt additional
incentives for placing resting displayed orders on IEX may further address commenters
concerns, including execution priority for displayed orders at the same price as nondisplayed orders (including pegged orders) and material pricing incentives to displayed
orders. The Commission also notes that IEX would allow for registered market makers,
who, if appointed, would need to maintain displayed quotes pursuant to IEX rules. See
IEX Rule 11.150 (Registration as a Market Maker) and Rule 11.151 (Market Maker
Obligations). In addition, the Commission observes that non-displayed order types,
including pegged order types that are non-displayed, exist across exchanges today. See,
e.g., BATS BZX Rule 11.9(c)(9) (mid-point peg order). While one commenter asserts
that the repricing of pegged orders in response to market movements is “a traditional

59

POP/coil delay, IEX is seeking to address what it views as the detrimental effects of speed on
pegged orders, and the Act does not foreclose reasonable and not unfairly discriminatory
innovations that are designed to protect investors who seek to reliably place passive, nondisplayed pegged orders on an exchange.
Finally, the Commission notes that the POP/coil delay applies to all IEX Users equally,
and may not be bypassed, for a fee or otherwise. 223 Accordingly, the Commission concludes that
IEX’s proposed POP/coil delay is designed to protect investors and the public interest in a
manner that is not unfairly discriminatory and that does not impose an unnecessary or
inappropriate burden on competition.

broker-dealer service” (see Citadel Fifth Letter at 5), the Commission notes that many
exchanges offer pegged orders that are repriced in a substantively identical manner. See,
e.g., BATS BZX Rule 11.19(c)(8) (pegged order); Nasdaq Rule 4703(d) (pegging).
Lastly, while one commenter asserts that IEX is unique in that all of its pegged order
types would be non-displayed (see NYSE First Letter at 9), the Commission does not
believe that the design of IEX’s proposed pegged order types is inconsistent with the Act
for the reasons discussed in this order.
223

A few commenters suggested that a 2012 proposed rule change from NASDAQ PHLX
(“Phlx”) should preclude IEX’s quotations from being protected. See Securities
Exchange Act Release No. 67680 (August 17, 2012), 77 FR 51073 (August 23, 2012)
(SR-Phlx-2012-106) (“Phlx 5 Millisecond Proposal”). See also Nasdaq First Letter at 23; NYSE First Letter at 7 n.14; FIA First Letter at 2-3; Citadel First Letter at 4. In that
matter, Phlx proposed instituting a five millisecond delay in the time between the receipt
of an order and the time when it would be presented for execution against the PSX order
book. See Nasdaq First Letter at 2. In response, IEX noted that while this delay would
have applied to inbound liquidity taking orders, no such delay would have applied to
liquidity adding orders. See IEX First Response at 8; IEX Second Response at 5. The
Commission notes that Phlx ultimately withdrew its proposal, and therefore the
Commission has not ruled on the merits of the Phlx proposal or its consistency with the
Act. Nevertheless, the Commission notes that the structure and implementation of the
delay proposed in the Phlx proposal appears to differ in significant respects from IEX’s
POP/coil, particularly with respect to its differential application to members depending
on whether they were providing or taking liquidity.

60

6.

Outbound Routing through IEXS

As noted above, IEXS, IEX’s affiliated single-purpose outbound routing broker-dealer,
will provide outbound routing services for IEX. As detailed in the Order Instituting Proceedings,
under the initially published version of IEX’s Form 1 (prior to Amendment No. 2), orders routed
from IEX through IEXS to away trading centers for execution (as well as reports back to IEX
from those away trading centers) would not have traversed the POP/coil (though reports
communicated from IEX back to members would have traversed the coil). Several commenters
expressed concern that this design would provide an unfair competitive advantage to IEXS over
other routing brokers to most quickly and efficiently route to away markets, 224 and might lead
other exchanges to implement similar features that would add complexity to the markets and be
detrimental to market structure. 225 Some commenters recommended that orders sent from IEX to
IEXS be subject to the same POP/coil delay as unaffiliated members. 226 Other commenters
supported IEX’s initially proposed routing structure. 227

224

See BATS First Letter at 4-5; BATS Second Letter at 3-6; BATS Third Letter at 3;
NYSE First Letter at 3-5; NYSE Second Letter at 3; Citadel First Letter at 6-7; Citadel
Second Letter at 5-6; Citadel Third Letter at 1-2; FIA First Letter at 4-5; Tabb Letter at 23; Hudson River Trading First Letter at 3-7; Hudson River Trading Second Letter at 4-5
Markit First Letter at 1-3; Markit Second Letter at 3-4 and 6; Weldon First Letter.

225

See Hudson River Trading First Letter at 6-7; BATS Second Letter at 4-5; Citadel Third
Letter at 2; Hunsacker Letter; Weldon First Letter.

226

See Markit First Letter at 3; BATS Second Letter at 5-6; Citadel First Letter at 6; Citadel
Third Letter at 2; FIA First Letter at 5; Hunsacker Letter. IEX stated that, under its
initially proposed approach to outbound routing through IEXS, IEXS would not receive
market data from IEX (or any other market) or have any greater access to information
than other IEX members. See IEX First Response at 14; see also IEX Second Response
at 14. One commenter challenged IEX’s claim and argued that IEX’s purported
argument concealed the fact that IEXS’s competitive advantage does not involve or
require IEXS receiving market data from IEX’s own book. See Markit First Letter at 2.

227

See Norges Bank Letter; Mannheim Letter; Sethi Letter.

61

In response to these comments, IEX submitted Amendment Nos. 2, 3, and 4 to propose a
complete redesign of the way its trading system will handle outbound routing by bifurcating its
handling of non-routable and routable orders once they initially exit the coil and reach IEX. 228
Specifically, IEX will direct non-routable orders to the IEX matching engine, while it will direct
routable orders to the IEX routing logic. 229 According to IEX, the coil, when combined with the
physical distance between the POP and the IEX trading system (herein referred to as the
“POP/coil”), provides IEX Users sending non-routable orders with 350 microseconds 230 of oneway latency to the IEX book (hereinafter the “POP/coil delay”). 231 For routable orders,
however, IEX explains that it would insert an additional POP/coil delay within the IEX system to
delay routable orders’ access to the IEX book from the IEX routing logic (for those routable
orders that the IEX routing logic determines to send to the IEX book) by an additional 350

228

See IEX Sixth Response, at 1. The proposed revisions to accommodate the new routing
process are primarily addressed in IEX Rule 11.510 (Connectivity), as well as in IEX
Rules 2.220 (IEX Services LLC as Outbound Router), 11.130 (Access), 11.230(b)-(c)
(Order Execution), 11.240 (Trade Execution, Reporting, and Dissemination of
Quotations), 11.330 (Data Products), and 11.410 (Use of Market Data Feeds and
Calculations of Necessary Price Reference Points). IEX also proposed other changes in
Amendment Nos. 2 and 3, including changes to proposed Rule 2.160 (Restrictions on
Membership) to reflect the Series 57 exam; proposed new Rule 2.250 (Mandatory
Participation in Testing of Backup Systems); proposed new Rule 9.217 (Expedited Client
Suspension Proceeding); proposed new Rule 10.270 (Disruptive Quoting and Trading
Activity Prohibited); changes to proposed Rule 11.190(a)(3) (Pegged Orders), (b)(8)-(10)
(concerning pegged orders), and (g) (concerning quote stability for Discretionary Peg
Orders); and changes to proposed Rule 11.260 (LIMITATION OF LIABILITY).

229

See IEX Rule 11.230 (stating that an incoming non-routable order will attempt to be
matched for execution in the IEX order book, and that, upon receipt of a routable order,
the IEX system will process it in accordance with one of the available routing options,
which may include routing IOC or FOK orders to the IEX order book). See also IEX
Sixth Response at 1; Amendment Nos. 2 and 3; IEX Rule 2.220(a) (defining “System
routing logic”).

230

A microsecond is one millionth of a second.

231

See IEX First Response at 3; see also Amendment Nos. 2 and 3.

62

microseconds (for a total delay of 700 microseconds before any portion of the routable order first
reaches the IEX book). 232 Likewise, messages from the IEX order book back to IEX’s routing
logic also would be subject to this POP/coil delay in order to effect a latency for its routing logic
that is identical to the latency experienced by IEX’s non-affiliated members when receiving
messages back from the IEX order book. 233 In addition, the routing logic would receive IEX
exchange data products subject to the POP/coil delay. 234 IEX represents that the extra POP/coil
delay between the routing logic and the IEX book is intended to place IEX in the same position
as a third-party routing broker in reaching IEX’s book through a POP/coil delay, such that IEX’s
ability to submit a routable order to its own order book would be identical to any other routing
broker-dealer’s ability to submit a routable order to the IEX order book despite the fact that the
orders would traverse different paths in the system. 235 As such, IEX represents that its routing

232

See IEX Rule 11.130(a) (noting that members’ access to the IEX order book includes the
IEX system routing members’ routable orders to the order book via the IEX POP); IEX
Rule 11.510(c)(1) (stating that “when the System routes all or a portion of a routable
order to the Order Book, in accordance with the System routing logic, all inbound and
outbound communications (including, without limitation, order messages, cancel
messages, and execution report messages found in the Exchange’s FIX Specification)
traverse an additional POP between the System routing logic and the Order Book”); see
also IEX Sixth Response at 2 (“Please note that because of the speed bump introduced
between the IEX Router and the IEX matching engine, IEX routing members
independently choosing to use the IEX Router will experience an additional 350
microseconds of latency as compared to members sending non-routable orders to the IEX
matching engine.”).

233

See IEX Rule 11.510(c)(1); see also IEX Sixth Response at 1-2 (noting that “the IEX
Router would receive fill information from the IEX matching engine by way of the speed
bump, which would place the IEX Router’s ability to receive information from the IEX
matching engine on equal terms to an independent broker router”).

234

See IEX Rule 11.510(c)(2)(A) (stating that “[t]he System routing logic receives
Exchange data products after traversing the POP”).

235

See IEX Sixth Response at 1 (“In particular, this redesign eliminates any alleged
advantage claimed by the commenters that the Router has over a third party broker
routing to IEX.”).

63

functionality would have no information advantage (i.e., no special view of IEX’s book,
including displayed or non-displayed interest), and IEX represents that the proposal places its
outbound routing functionality in an identical position to third-party routing broker-dealers when
sending orders into the IEX matching engine and when receiving transaction information from
the IEX matching engine. 236
Given the additional POP/coil delay, Users submitting routable orders to IEX and Users
submitting non-routable orders to IEX would not be subject to the same cumulative POP/coil
delay. Non-routable orders would remain subject to the 350 microsecond delay into and out of
the IEX matching engine via the initial POP/coil. Routable orders, however, would be sent to
IEX’s system routing logic first, and, if routed to IEX, would traverse a new POP/coil delay
(with an additional 350 microsecond delay) when interacting with the IEX matching engine. 237
In the Order Instituting Proceedings, the Commission noted that it was particularly
interested in commenters’ views as to whether the changes to IEX’s outbound routing process set
forth in IEX’s Form 1, as amended by Amendment Nos. 2, 3 and 4, are consistent with the Act,
in light of commenters’ concerns that, under IEX’s Form 1 prior to Amendment No. 2, IEX’s
proposed routing functionality and IEXS would have an advantage over other routing brokerdealers that would be unfairly discriminatory and an inappropriate burden on competition.
236

See IEX Sixth Response at 2 (noting that “the IEX Router would receive IEX quote
information (the IEX TOPS feed) over the speed bump, which would place the IEX
Router’s ability to receive IEX quote information on equal terms to an independent
broker router”).

237

See IEX Rule 11.230; see also IEX Sixth Response at 2. IEX believes that this additional
delay should not be to the detriment of a User submitting a routable order, and notes that
Users may avoid this additional delay by submitting non-routable orders. See IEX Sixth
Response at 2. In addition, the trade confirmation report from the IEX matching engine
back to the User that submitted the routable order would be subject to a 700 microsecond
delay, whereas IEX’s proprietary data feed would only be subject to a 350 microsecond
delay. See id. at 1-2.

64

Several commenters stated the changes to IEX’s proposed routing functionality have sufficiently
addressed these concerns and eliminated the advantage IEXS would have had over other routing
broker-dealers under the original proposal. 238 One of these commenters questioned how the
differing treatment of routable versus non-routable orders under IEX’s amended proposal would
be consistent with the Act, and in particular, how it would not be unfairly discriminatory or an
inappropriate burden on competition. 239 Another commenter questioned whether the revised
routing functionality would operate as effectively as the original proposal, and suggested IEX
further clarify how its redesigned functionality would achieve its investor protection goals in
comparison to the initial proposal. 240
The Commission notes that it carefully scrutinizes exchange-affiliated routing brokers,
and has scrutinized with particularity IEX’s proposed operation of IEXS, both as initially
proposed and as amended by Amendment Nos. 2, 3, and 4. 241 As noted in the Order Instituting
Proceedings, the Commission previously has stated that an exchange-affiliated outbound router,
as a “facility” of the exchange, will be subject to the exchange’s and the Commission’s
regulatory oversight, and that the exchange will be responsible for ensuring that the affiliated
outbound routing function is operated consistent with Section 6 of the Act and the exchange’s
rules. 242 For example, in approving an exchange with an affiliated outbound routing broker, the

238

See Nasdaq Third Letter at 1; Citadel Fifth Letter at 1; Gilliland and Goodlander Letter at
1-2; FIA Second Letter at 2; NYSE Third Letter at 8-9.

239

See NYSE Third Letter at 8-9.

240

See Anonymous March 14 Letter at 2-3.

241

See infra note 243 (citing to prior orders).

242

See, e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release No. 62716 (Aug. 13, 2010), 75 FR 51295
(August 19, 2010) (granting BATS Y Exchange’s request to register as a national
securities exchange).

65

Commission previously noted that “[a] conflict of interest would arise if the national securities
exchange (or an affiliate) provided advantages to its broker-dealer that are not available to other
members.” 243 The Commission further explained that “advantages, such as greater access to
information, improved speed of execution, or enhanced operational capabilities in dealing with
the exchange, might constitute unfair discrimination under the Act.” 244
Thus, unique access or preferences that an exchange provides to its outbound order
routing function must be taken into account in the analysis of whether an exchange provides
outbound routing in a manner consistent with the Act, and in particular, the requirement that an
exchange’s rules be designed not to permit unfair discrimination and not impose an unnecessary
or undue burden on competition. 245
243

Securities Exchange Act Release No. 44983 (October 25, 2001), 66 FR 55225, 55233
(November 1, 2001) (PCX-00-25) (order approving Archipelago Exchange (“ArcaEx”) as
the equities trading facility of PCX Equities, Inc.) (“ArcaEx Order”). In the 2001 PCX
filing, two commenters expressed concerns regarding ArcaEx’s affiliation with the Wave
broker-dealer, which operated as the outbound routing broker-dealer for ArcaEx.
Specifically, these commenters were concerned that the affiliation between ArcaEx and
Wave would be anti-competitive and could create a conflict of interest. See also supra
note 242, at 51304 (citing to the BATS Y order).

244

ArcaEx Order, supra note 243, at 55233.

245

If an exchange provides its routing logic with a unique structural advantage, such as
preferential access to information from the exchange’s order book, that advantage could
effectively be passed on to its affiliated routing broker in the form of faster or more
informed routing instructions. For example, if an exchange were to provide its routing
logic with exclusive access to information that it did not provide broadly to other routing
brokers (e.g., to orders resting non-displayed on the exchange’s book) that would, on its
face, raise concerns under Sections 6(b)(5) and 6(b)(8) of the Act. Such an advantage, if
not available on identical terms to routing brokers unaffiliated with the exchange, could
unfairly discriminate against those unaffiliated brokers or place an inappropriate burden
on their ability to compete with the exchange’s outbound routing services, in
contravention of the Act. As initially proposed, IEXS would functionally have benefitted
from greater access to information compared to other routing brokers because it would
have been able to route outbound (based on instructions from the IEX matching engine
following an execution (or lack thereof) on IEX) before any other market participant
would be in a similar position.

66

The Commission believes that the revisions to IEX’s outbound routing structure set forth
in Amendment Nos. 2, 3, and 4 have eliminated any such improper advantage that may have
been provided to IEXS under IEX’s initial proposal. The Commission notes that, following
these amendments, certain commenters that criticized IEX’s initially-proposed outbound routing
structure expressed support for IEX’s amended outbound routing structure. 246
The Commission believes that IEX has directly responded to the comments on this point
through the changes it proposed in Amendment Nos. 2, 3, and 4. Specifically, by inserting an
additional POP/coil delay for routable orders between the IEX routing logic and IEX matching
engine, the Commission believes that IEX’s ability to provide outbound routing services will
now be on substantively comparable terms to a third party routing broker that is a member of
IEX. Both the IEX routing logic and a third-party routing broker-dealer would experience 350
microseconds of latency in sending order messages to the IEX matching engine (assuming that
the third-party routing broker-dealer sends a non-routable order, which would bypass the IEX
routing logic and instead proceed to the IEX matching engine) and 350 microseconds of latency
in receiving fill and quote information back from the IEX matching engine. Thus, if the IEX
routing logic were to pursue a serial routing strategy, it would do so based on a view of the IEX
book that is subject to the POP/coil delay, it would experience the same 350 microsecond latency
in the transmission of the order to the IEX book that a routing broker-dealer would experience
246

See, e.g., Citadel Fifth Letter; Nasdaq Third Letter; FIA Second Letter; NYSE Third
Letter at 8-9. One commenter that was critical of IEX’s initially proposed routing
structure suggested that Nasdaq’s simultaneous routing functionality would be a viable
alternative, and noted that it “did not have a negative impact on price discovery or market
quality.” See Hudson River Trading Second Letter at 5. See also Securities Exchange
Act Release Nos. 67246 (June 25, 2012), 77 FR 38875 (June 29, 2012) (notice of
proposed rule change) (notice of Nasdaq simultaneous routing proposal) and 67639
(August 10, 2012), 77 FR 49034 (August 15, 2012) (SR-NASDAQ-2012-071) (order
approving proposed rule change).

67

with its non-routable order, and it would experience the same 350 microsecond latency in
waiting to determine what, if any, remainder is left to be routed to away destinations. The
Commission believes that these are the same conditions that a third-party routing broker-dealer
would experience when pursuing a serial routing strategy involving IEX.
IEX’s new router design provides flexibility to its routing functionality to employ either a
“spray” approach to routing or a “serial” approach. 247 If the IEX routing logic pursues a “spray”
routing approach, which would entail the IEX routing logic simultaneously routing shares to
destinations on the IEX routing table, including the IEX book, the Commission believes that
IEX’s new design will place it on the same footing as a third-party routing broker-dealer
choosing to “spray” route to multiple trading destinations, including IEX. Specifically, they
both would have a view of the IEX book that is subject to the POP/delay, and thus would be in a
similar position with respect to determining how many shares to send to the IEX book as part of
the “spray” route. Moreover, the shares that are sent to the IEX book from the IEX routing logic
or the third-party routing broker-dealer each would have to traverse the POP/coil before reaching
the IEX book.
Thus, under IEX’s amended outbound routing rule, IEX’s affiliated broker-dealer does
not have any structural or informational advantages in its provision of routing services as
compared to a third-party broker-dealer member of IEX performing a similar function for itself
or others. Thus, the Commission believes that IEX’s proposed routing structure, as amended,

247

See IEX Sixth Response, at 1 (“Pursuant to the redesign, our Routing logic, when
necessary, will have the ability to route to IEX and away exchanges simultaneously
utilizing only public information, which will protect the IEX routing member from
electronic front running to away exchanges.”).

68

would not be unfairly discriminatory and would not impose an inappropriate burden on
competition. 248
Accordingly, for the reasons stated above, the Commission believes that the outbound
routing functionality of IEX, as amended by Amendment Nos. 2, 3, and 4, and as described in
IEX’s Sixth Response, is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act in that it is consistent with the
goals of promoting just and equitable principles of trade, removing impediments to and
perfecting the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system, protecting
investors and the public interest, and not permitting unfair discrimination between customer,
issuers, brokers or dealers. 249
7.

Protected Quote Status

In light of the POP/coil delay, the issue of whether IEX would operate as an automated
trading center, in compliance with Rule 600(b)(4) of Regulation NMS, 250 such that its quotations

248

In response to a commenter’s questioning whether IEX’s differential handling of nonroutable orders and routable orders would be unfairly discriminatory or an inappropriate
burden on competition (see NYSE Third Letter at 8-9), the Commission notes that while
a User that sends a routable order to IEX would experience different latencies as
compared to a User that sends a non-routable order to IEX, any User may choose to send
either kind of order – routable or non-routable – to IEX. Thus, the Commission does not
believe that there is any structural advantage in IEX’s proposed handling of either kind of
order that would be available to certain Users but not to others. In addition, the
Commission notes that the design of IEX’s system with respect to its handling of routable
versus non-routable orders is similar to that of at least one existing exchange. See
Nasdaq Third Letter at 3 (noting that “if a Nasdaq member does not wish to use Nasdaq’s
routing functionality, it has the ability to send an order directly to the Nasdaq matching
engine, thereby bypassing the exchange system that handles orders designated for
routing, and would receive an immediate confirmation of the order’s execution on
Nasdaq”). See also id. at 5 (noting that “[u]sing Nasdaq’s order management system is
optional, and members opting against using Nasdaq’s OMS are not disadvantaged in any
way”).

249

See 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5).

250

17 CFR 242.600(b)(4).

69

would be “automated” under Rule 600(b)(3) and thus “protected” under Rule 611 of Regulation
NMS (the “Order Protection Rule” or “Trade-Through Rule”), 251 attracted considerable attention
among commenters. Specifically, several commenters questioned whether IEX’s operation of
the POP/coil delay would be consistent with either the Order Protection Rule or the intent behind
the Rule. 252 Commenters mainly assert that the 350 microsecond latency caused by the POP and
coil calls into question whether IEX quotations would be “automated,” and therefore whether
they can be “protected,” under Regulation NMS. 253
251

17 CFR 242.611. Rule 611(a)(1) requires a trading center to establish, maintain and
enforce written policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to prevent tradethroughs on the trading center of protection quotations. 17 CFR 242.611(a)(1).

252

See NYSE First Letter at 5; BATS First Letter at 3; FIA First Letter at 2; Nasdaq First
Letter at 2; Citadel First Letter at 3. See also Gibson Dunn Letter at 6-7.

253

See BATS First Letter at 2-4; FIA First Letter at 2; NYSE First Letter at 5-7; Nasdaq
First Letter at 2; Citadel First Letter at 2-4. Commenters critical of IEX’s proposed
design cite to language from the Regulation NMS Adopting Release where the
Commission elaborated on what it means for a quotation to be “automated,” including an
interpretation that the term “immediate,” as it relates to the definition of an automated
quotation, “precludes any coding of automated systems or other type of intentional device
that would delay the action taken with respect to a quotation” (emphasis added). See
BATS First Letter at 3; FIA First Letter at 2; Citadel First Letter at 3; Citadel Second
Letter at 3; see also Securities Exchange Act Release No. 51808 (June 9, 2005) 70 FR
37496, 37534 (June 29, 2005) (“Regulation NMS Adopting Release”). Based on this
language, the commenters contend that IEX’s quotation cannot be considered automated,
or at least question whether it can be so considered. Several commenters urged the
Commission not to decide this question in the context of IEX’s Form 1. See, e.g., Citadel
Second Letter at 4; Nasdaq Second Letter at 1-4; Direct Match Letter at 2-4; Scott Letter.
One commenter urged the Commission, should it disagree with the contention that IEX’s
quotation cannot be protected, to explain its reasoning in a rulemaking proceeding or
exemptive order that is subject to public vetting. See Citadel Second Letter at 4. Other
commenters urged the Commission to articulate clear standards regarding what
constitutes a permissible access delay. See BATS First Letter at 3-4, 6; T. Rowe Price
Letter at 2; Jon D. Letter. One of these commenters supported an interpretation of the
definition of an automated quotation that would include the delay resulting from IEX’s
POP/coil, but further urged the Commission to articulate clear regulatory standards that
would be applicable to all trading venues and market participants. See BATS Second
Letter at 2. Other commenters offered support for IEX’s proposed access delay, and
challenged the assertion that IEX’s quotation would not meet the definition of

70

As noted above, according to IEX, all incoming messages (e.g., orders to buy or sell and
any modification to a previously sent open order) from any User would traverse the proposed
POP/coil delay. 254 In addition, all outbound messages from IEX back to a User (e.g.,
confirmations of an execution that occurred on IEX) would pass through the same route in
reverse. 255 IEX’s direct proprietary market data feed, which is an optional data feed that IEX
would make available to subscribers, also would traverse the coil before exiting at the POP. 256
As a result, a non-routable immediate-or-cancel (“IOC”) order, which is a type of order that IEX
would permit Users to send to the IEX system, would traverse the proposed POP/coil (and its
attendant 350 microsecond delay) before arriving at the IEX system and potentially executing
against a displayed quotation on IEX. 257 Likewise, the response from the IEX system to the User

“automated quotation” under Regulation NMS. See, e.g., Leuchtkafer First Letter at 1-2;
Leuchtkafer Second Letter at 1-2; Verret Letter at 4; Franklin Templeton Letter at 2;
Upson Letter at 2. IEX asserted that the language of the Order Protection Rule and the
Regulation NMS Adopting Release, when considered in light of the context in which the
Order Protection Rule was adopted, do not compel the conclusion that IEX’s quotes
should be considered “manual quotations” instead of “automated quotations.” See IEX
First Response at 5-7; IEX Second Response at 4; IEX Third Response at 1-3.
254

See IEX First Response at 3-4; see also IEX Rule 11.510.

255

See IEX Rule 11.510.

256

See id.

257

IEX has designed its rules relating to orders, modifiers, and order execution to comply
with the requirements of Regulation NMS, including Rule 600(b)(3) in particular by
providing an immediate-or-cancel functionality. See IEX Rules 11.190 and 11.230; see
also 17 CFR 242.600(b)(3). IEX permits immediate-or-cancel orders to be non-routable
when designated as “IEX Only,” and thus unexecuted portions of immediate-or-cancel
orders designated as such would be canceled without being routed elsewhere, in
accordance with Rule 600(b)(3)(iii). See IEX Rule 11.190; see also 17 CFR
242.600(b)(3)(iii). These proposed rules include accepting orders marked as intermarket
sweep orders, which will allow orders so designated to be automatically matched and
executed without reference to Protected Quotations at other trading centers, and routing
orders marked as intermarket sweep orders by a User to a specific trading center for
execution. See IEX Rule 11.190(b)(12); see also 17 CFR 242.600(b)(3) and 242.611.

71

indicating the action taken by the IEX system with respect to such IOC order also would traverse
the POP/coil and experience a 350 microsecond delay, for a cumulative inbound and outbound
intentional delay imposed on a non-routable order of 700 microseconds. 258
Several commenters asserted that this 700 microsecond delay would not be de minimis or
otherwise consistent with the Act and the rules thereunder. Some believed that if IEX’s best bid
and best offer were protected quotations in light of the latency attendant to IEX’s POP/coil
structure, including the fact that IEX’s proprietary market data feed would be subject to such
latency as it leaves IEX, it would be detrimental to the market. 259 Some commenters asserted
that if IEX’s quotation were protected, it would negatively affect the accuracy of the NBBO and
the price discovery process, and could lead to market instability. 260 Others were concerned that
it would lead to confusion among market participants, and cause a higher incidence of locked or

258

See IEX Rule 11.510; see also IEX First Response at 3. Outbound transaction and quote
messages from IEX to the applicable securities information processor (“SIP”) would not
pass through the POP/coil, but instead would be sent directly from the IEX system to the
SIP processor without an intentional delay. See IEX Rule 11.510(c); see also IEX First
Response at 3-4.

259

See, e.g., BATS First Letter at 3; Nasdaq First Letter at 3; FIA First Letter at 3; Citadel
First Letter at 4-5; NYSE First Letter at 7-9; Scott Letter; Anonymous December 5 Letter
at 2; Hudson River Trading First Letter at 6; PDQ Enterprises Letter at 1-2. See also
Gibson Dunn Letter at 7.

260

See BATS First Letter at 3; PDQ Enterprises Letter at 1-2 (arguing that because of IEX’s
POP/coil delay, “its quotes may not be truly actionable on an alarmingly regular basis”
and that, if other exchanges adopt access delays of their own, it will lead to order routers
“chasing ghost quotes through numerous speed bumps” and, as a result, “price discovery
chaos”); Hudson River Trading First Letter at 7 (predicting that other exchanges will seek
delays of their own, which would increase market structure complexity and, “during
periods of high volatility, several quotes may be intentionally delayed, clouding the view
of the NBBO and leading to greater uncertainty for market participants that could
contribute to market instability”); Citadel First Letter at 5; see also Scott Letter (“While
the changes proposed by IEX could potentially be positive for IEX and its owners, the
changes accompanying the approach could negatively impact an investors’ ability to
execute a trade at the best price, the centerpiece of our national market system.”).

72

crossed markets. 261 Some commenters contended that orders routed to IEX would experience
lower fill rates and inferior executions because routed orders might miss out on better quotes on
other markets if they need to route to a stale quote on IEX that had already traded but that fact
has not yet been communicated through IEX’s proprietary data. 262 In addition, some
commenters argued that resting orders, including pegged orders, on away markets could be
mispriced, and potentially executed against at a stale price, due to the fact that outgoing
proprietary market data from IEX would be subject to the POP/coil latency. 263
261

See Nasdaq First Letter at 3; FIA First Letter at 3; Citadel First Letter at 4-5.

262

See FIA First Letter at 3; Citadel First Letter at 4, 9; Citadel Fifth Letter at 2-4; PDQ
Enterprises Letter at 1-2; Hudson River Trading First Letter at 5; Hudson River Trading
Second Letter at 2-4.

263

See NYSE First Letter at 7-9; Citadel First Letter at 5; FIA First Letter at 4; Hudson
River Trading First Letter at 6; Anonymous December 5 Letter at 2. Some of these
commenters contended that this would lead to the development of order types on other
markets that are designed to bypass IEX protected quotations. See NYSE First Letter at 8
n.16; FIA First Letter at 4; see also Gibson Dunn Letter at 7 (expressing concern that
intentional delays such as that proposed by IEX might “open the floodgates to a new
wave of complex order types”). Further, one commenter expressed concern that the
POP/coil delay could be exploited for manipulative trading purposes. See Instinet Letter
at 1 (expressing concern that an access delay might be used to “place[] into the public
data stream materially unexecutable quotes that persist for, on order, one millisecond”).
The Commission believes there is no basis to conclude that concerns regarding
manipulative and predatory quoting behavior should be more pronounced on IEX due to
the POP/coil delay, than with respect to other exchanges. While the commenter discusses
the hypothetical submission of quotes to IEX that are cancelled before any other market
participant could react to them, but that linger in the public market data stream for longer
durations because of the POP/coil delay on outbound proprietary data, the Commission
notes that such quoting behavior, to the extent it constitutes manipulative trading
behavior, would be prohibited by the federal securities laws and rules, including Section
10(b) of the Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, as well as exchange rules and FINRA rules.
The Commission also notes that, in addition to IEX’s surveillance procedures, and in
addition to IEX’s rules prohibiting certain trading practices (see the IEX Rule 10.100
series), IEX’s rules, as amended, include proposed Rule 10.270, which specifically
prohibits disruptive quoting and trading activity on IEX, as well as proposed Rule 9.217,
which sets forth an expedited suspension proceeding for alleged violations of Rule
10.270. See Amendment No. 4 to IEX’s Form 1. The Commission believes that IEX’s
rules are appropriately designed to prevent and detect quoting behavior of the sort that the

73

Other commenters did not believe that protecting IEX’s quotations despite IEX’s
POP/coil would have a detrimental impact on market quality, 264 and noted that there is latency
associated with the transmission of orders to protected quotations at existing market venues –
and in some cases, those latencies are greater than that associated with transmitting orders to IEX
even factoring in the proposed POP/coil delay. 265 One commenter observed that the 350
microsecond POP/coil delay is “not much more than the normal latency that all trading platforms
impose,” and that an exchange could achieve the same delay by “locat[ing] its primary data

commenter is concerned about, as well as, generally, to prevent fraudulent and
manipulative acts and practices in accordance with Section 6(b)(5) of the Act. IEX, like
all registered national securities exchanges, must comply with the Act and the rules
thereunder, and its own rules, and (subject to the provisions of Section 17(d) and the rules
thereunder), absent reasonable justification or excuse, enforce compliance with such
provisions by its members and persons associated with its members. See 15 USC 78s(g).
264

See Chen & Foley Letter at 5 (“Based on our empirical analysis of Alpha’s speed bump
in Canada, we believe that IEX’s application will not result in detrimental impacts on
overall market quality in the United States.”).

265

See, e.g., BATS First Letter at 4; BATS Second Letter at 2-3; Healthy Markets Letter at
4; Angel Letter at 2; Kim Letter; Mannheim Letter; Wilcox Letter. Because the POP/coil
delay is not variable, market participants should be able to account for it when routing as
they could any other known latency. See, e.g., Chen & Foley Letter at 4 (“The fixed
nature of IEX’s inbound speed bump enables individual marketable orders from a smart
order router spray to be timed to arrive at IEX’s speed bump point-of-presence 350
microseconds prior to arrival at other markets, minimizing any potential for information
leakage.”); Jones C Letter at 4 (“[M]arket participants may change their order submission
behavior to substantially blunt IEX’s pegged order repricing scheme . . . [by] sending the
order to IEX so that it arrives 350 microseconds earlier than it arrives at other venues.”).
As noted above, in the Jones C Letter, the commenter attempted to quantify the purported
cost that certain market participants would incur when IEX pegged orders “fade” before
they can be accessed. See supra note 214. The Commission believes that market
participants who adjust their routing strategies to account for IEX’s access delay (which
the commenter acknowledged market participants may do) should be able to mitigate the
“fade” that they encounter when routing orders to IEX by calibrating the timing of their
routed orders so that the orders destined for IEX arrive there 350 microseconds before the
orders sent to other venues.

74

center 65 or more miles away from the other exchange data centers.” 266 Another commenter did
not find the proposed POP/coil delay “particularly problematic, as the time gap is minimal, and
(even including the speed bump) IEX matches orders faster than a number of other markets.” 267
Another commenter contended that IEX’s POP/coil delay will have little impact on the NBBO
calculations of the consolidated tape. 268
In response to commenters that argued that the POP/coil delay would negatively affect
market transparency, degrade the NBBO, or cloud price discovery, the Commission notes that
Rule 600(b)(3)(v) requires trading centers to immediately update their displayed quotations to
reflect material changes. Market participants today already experience very short delays in
receiving updates to displayed quotations, as a result of geographic and technological latencies,
similar to those experienced when accessing protected quotations. Indeed, the NBBO is an
amalgamation of individual protected quotations from different markets located in different
places, and is already subject to geographic, network, computational, and other technological
latencies. 269 For any market participant that chooses to use exchange proprietary data feeds,
including IEX’s feed with its attendant 350 microsecond one-way delay, and calculate the NBBO
for itself, they will not experience an unprecedented delay in receiving IEX’s data because the
350 microsecond delay on IEX’s data is well within the range of geographic and technological
latencies that market participants experience today. Thus, latency to and from IEX will be
266

Angel Letter at 3; see also Abel/Noser Letter at 2.

267

Tabb Letter at 1. See also Jones C Letter at 2 (noting that “from an economic point of
view the 350-microsecond delay [proposed by IEX] per se should not be a particular
cause for concern, as it is well within the bounds of the existing, geographically dispersed
National Market System, and does not seem likely to contribute substantially to a
phantom liquidity problem”).

268

See Upson Letter at 1.

269

See Final Interpretation, supra note 13.

75

comparable to – and even less than – delays attributable to other markets that currently are
included in the NBBO. 270 For this reason, the Commission does not believe the introduction of a
small intentional delay like the POP/coil delay will impair market transparency, lead to greater
incidences of locked or crossed markets, or materially impact pegged orders on away markets.
In addition, the Commission published notice of a proposed interpretation regarding the
permissibility of intentional access delays. 271 Today, the Commission is issuing a final
interpretation that, when determining whether a trading center maintains an “automated
270

See Healthy Markets Letter at 4 (noting that “[t]he NBBO already includes quotes with
varied degrees of time lag” and that the length of IEX’s coiled cable “is far less than the
distance between NY and Chicago, and is remarkably similar to the distance between
Carteret and Mahwah (36 miles)”). See also IEX First Response at 6 (stating that “the
amount of latency imposed by the POP is less than or not materially different than that
currently involved in reaching various exchanges based on geographic factors,” and
referring, by way of example, to the geographic distance that an order from the Chicago
Stock Exchange’s Secaucus, New Jersey data center must physically traverse before
reaching the Chicago Stock Exchange’s trading system in Chicago); see also id. at 9-10
(noting that the POP/coil latency is shorter than the latency associated with protected
quotations published through FINRA’s Alternative Display Facility and the National
Stock Exchange’s former order delivery product); IEX Second Response at 11 (noting
that the distance between Nasdaq’s Carteret facility and NYSE’s Mahwah facility is 42.8
miles (compared to the IEX coil’s approximately 38 mile equivalent)); IEX Third
Response at 2. Other commenters similarly understood that the POP/coil latency is
comparable to or shorter than natural and geographic latencies in today’s market. See
Angel Letter at 2; BATS First Letter at 4; BATS Second Letter at 2-3; Kim Letter;
Mannheim Letter; T. Rowe Price Letter at 2-3; Wilcox Letter. Two commenters
specifically suggested that such a delay would be inconsequential or de minimis. See
Angel Letter at 3; Abel/Noser Letter at 2.

271

See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 77407 (March 18, 2016), 81 FR 15660 (March
24, 2016) (S7-03-16) (“Notice of Proposed Interpretation”). In particular, the
Commission noted that the POP/coil, because it delays inbound and outbound messages
to and from IEX Users, raises a question as to whether, under the interpretation set forth
in the Regulation NMS Adopting Release from 2005, IEX will, among other things,
“immediately” execute IOC orders under Rule 600(b)(3)(ii), “immediately” transmit a
response to an IOC order sender under Rule 600(b)(3)(iv), and “immediately” display
information that updates IEX’s displayed quotation under Rule 600(b)(3)(v). See id.; see
also 17 CFR 242.600(b)(3); Regulation NMS Adopting Release, supra note 253, at
37504.

76

quotation” for purposes of Rule 611 of Regulation NMS, the term “immediate” in Rule 600(b)(3)
precludes any coding of automated systems or other type of intentional device that would delay
the action taken with respect to a quotation unless such delay is de minimis – i.e., so short as to
not frustrate the purposes of Rule 611 by impairing fair and efficient access to an exchange’s
quotations. 272 In accordance with that interpretation and the Commission’s findings, discussed
above, that the application of IEX’s POP/coil delay is not unfairly discriminatory and is
otherwise consistent with the Act, the Commission does not believe that IEX’s POP/coil delay
precludes IEX from maintaining an automated quotation. Because the delay imposed by IEX’s
POP/coil is well within geographic and technological latencies experienced today that do not
impair fair and efficient access to an exchange’s quotations or otherwise frustrate the objectives
of Rule 611, the Commission believes that such intentional delay will not frustrate the purposes
of Rule 611 by impairing fair and efficient access to IEX’s quotations. Accordingly, the
Commission finds that an intentional 700 microsecond delay is de minimis and thus IEX can
maintain a protected quotation. 273
8.

Market Participants Required to Treat IEX’s Quotations as Protected

Consequently, IEX is a trading center whose quotations can be “automated quotations”
under Rule 600(b)(3). In turn, IEX is designed to be an “automated trading center” under Rule

272

See Final Interpretation, supra note 13. One commenter argued that there is “no evidence
of a need for a de minimis exception or that planned delays will benefit investors in any
meaningful way.” Gibson Dunn Letter at 7. This comment pertains mainly to, and is
addressed, in the Commission’s Final Interpretation, being issued separately today. As
stated in the Final Interpretation, the Commission believes that its updated interpretation
allowing for de minimis intentional access delays in certain circumstances is warranted in
light of technological and market developments and is consistent with the purposes of
Rule 611.

273

See Final Interpretation, supra note 13.

77

600(b)(4) whose best-priced, displayed quotation would be a “protected quotation” under Rules
600(b)(57) and 600(b)(58), and for purposes of Rule 611. 274
As a result, following the issuance of this order and IEX having met the conditions to
begin operating as an automated trading center in a particular symbol, market participants will be
required to have reasonably designed policies and procedures to treat IEX’s best bid and best
offer in such symbol as a protected quotation. 275 At the same time, to meet their regulatory
responsibilities under Rule 611(a) of Regulation NMS, market participants must have sufficient
notice of new Protected Quotations, as well as all necessary information (such as final technical
specifications). 276 The Commission believes that it would be a reasonable policy and procedure
under Rule 611(a) to require that industry participants begin treating IEX’s best bid and best
offer as a Protected Quotation as soon as possible but no later than 90 days after the date of this

274

The foregoing discussion of whether IEX can have an automated quote and operate as an
automated trading center and therefore receive order protection under Rule 611 focuses
on whether the IEX system can “immediately and automatically” execute an order against
an IEX quotation within the meaning of the definition of “automated quotation” set forth
in Rule 600(b)(3). Rule 600(b)(3) sets forth additional requirements for a quotation to be
automated. See 17 CFR 242.600(b)(3). Moreover, being capable of displaying
“automated quotations,” as defined in Rule 600(b)(3), is just one of several requirements
that a trading center must satisfy in order to be considered an “automated trading center”
under Rule 600(b)(4). See 17 CFR 242.600(b)(4). In particular, as summarized above,
IEX’s trading rules are designed to satisfy the requirements of Rule 600(b)(3) by
permitting orders to be marked as “immediate-or-cancel” and providing for immediate
and automatic execution of such incoming orders, cancelation of unexecuted portions,
transmission of a response to the sender, and updates to its displayed quotation. See also
IEX Rules 11.230 (Order Execution) and 11.240 (Trade Execution, Reporting, and
Dissemination of Quotations). Further, to the extent IEX satisfies the conditions of Rule
600(b)(4), it will operate as an “automated trading center.” In such case, IEX can be an
automated trading center with automated quotations that are protected under Rule 611.

275

See 17 CFR 242.611(a).

276

See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 53829 (May 18, 2006), 71 FR 30038, 30041
(May 24, 2006) (File No. S7-10-04) (extending the compliance dates for Rule 610 and
Rule 611 of Regulation NMS under the Act).

78

order, or such later date as IEX begins operation as a national securities exchange. The
Commission notes that it has taken the same position with other new equities exchanges. 277
D.

Discipline and Oversight of Members

As noted above, one prerequisite for the Commission’s grant of an exchange’s
application for registration is that a proposed exchange must be so organized and have the
capacity to be able to carry out the purposes of the Act. 278 Specifically, an exchange must be
able to enforce compliance by its members and persons associated with its members with federal
securities laws and rules thereunder and the rules of the exchange. 279 As also noted above,
pursuant to the Regulatory Contract, FINRA will perform many of the initial disciplinary
processes on behalf of IEX. 280 For example, FINRA will investigate potential securities laws
violations, issue complaints, and conduct hearings pursuant to IEX rules. Appeals from
disciplinary decisions will be heard by the IEX Appeals Committee 281 and the IEX Appeals
Committee’s decision shall be final. 282 In addition, the Exchange Board may on its own
initiative order review of a disciplinary decision. 283

277

See, e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 58375 (August 18, 2008), 73 FR 49498,
49505 (August 21, 2008) (approval of the BATS Exchange) and 61698 (March 12, 2010),
75 FR 13151, 13163 (March 28, 2010) (approval of the EDGA and EDGX exchanges).

278

See 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(1).

279

See id.

280

See supra notes 120-121 and accompanying text. See also IEX Rule 9.001 (noting that
IEX and FINRA are parties to a regulatory contract, pursuant to which FINRA will
perform certain functions).

281

See IEX Rule 1.160(r).

282

See IEX Rule 9.349(c) (providing, among other things, that if the Exchange Board does
not call the disciplinary proceeding for review, the proposed written decision of the IEX
Appeals Committee shall become final).

283

See IEX Rule Series 9.350.

79

The IEX Amended and Restated Operating Agreement and IEX rules provide that the
Exchange has disciplinary jurisdiction over its members so that it can enforce its members’
compliance with its rules and the federal securities laws and rules. 284 The Exchange’s rules also
permit it to sanction members for violations of its rules and violations of the federal securities
laws and rules by, among other things, expelling or suspending members, limiting members’
activities, functions, or operations, fining or censuring members, or suspending or barring a
person from being associated with a member, or any other fitting sanction. 285 IEX’s rules also
provide for the imposition of fines for certain minor rule violations in lieu of commencing
disciplinary proceedings. 286 Accordingly, as a condition to the operation of IEX, a Minor Rule
Violation Plan (“MRVP”) filed by IEX under Act Rule 19d-1(c)(2) must be declared effective by
the Commission. 287
The Commission received one comment on this topic, from a commenter that encouraged
IEX to adopt a rule similar to BATS Rule 8.17 (Expedited Client Suspension Proceeding)
concerning expedited suspension proceedings with respect to alleged violations of IEX’s
disruptive quoting and trading rule. 288 IEX proposed a substantively similar rule in amendment
Nos. 2 and 3. 289 The Commission finds that IEX’s Amended and Restated Operating Agreement
and rules concerning its disciplinary and oversight programs are consistent with the requirements

284

See generally IEX Amended and Restated Operating Agreement Article X and IEX Rules
Chapters 8 and 9.

285

See IEX Rule 2.120. See also BATS Rule 2.2 (containing a nearly identical provision).

286

See IEX Rule 9.216(b).

287

17 CFR 240.19d-1(c)(2).

288

See Instinet Letter at 2.

289

See IEX Rule 9.217.

80

of Sections 6(b)(6) and 6(b)(7) 290 of the Act in that they provide fair procedures for the
disciplining of members and persons associated with members. The Commission further finds
that the rules of IEX provide it with the ability to comply, and with the ability to enforce
compliance by its members and persons associated with its members, with the provisions of the
Act, the rules and regulations thereunder, and the rules of IEX. 291
E.

Listing and Trading on the IEX Exchange 292
1.

Registration Under Section 12(b) of the Act

Once IEX begins operations as a national securities exchange, a security will be
considered for listing on IEX only if such security is registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Act 293 or such security is subject to an exemption. 294 An issuer may register a security pursuant
to Section 12(b) by submitting to IEX a listing application that provides certain required
information. 295 The IEX Exchange will review the listing application and, if the listing
application is approved, will certify to the Commission that it has approved the security for
listing and registration. 296 Registration of the security will become effective thirty days after the
receipt of such certification by the Commission or within a shorter period of time as the

290

15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(6) and (b)(7).

291

See Section 6(b)(1) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(1).

292

The Commission did not receive any comments addressing the substance of the listing
requirements.

293

15 U.S.C. 78l(b).

294

15 U.S.C. 78l(c); IEX Rules 14.202 and 14.203.

295

15 U.S.C. 78l(b); IEX Rule 14.202. Prior to submitting a listing application to IEX, the
issuer would be required to participate in a free confidential pre-application eligibility
review, in which the IEX Exchange will determine whether the issuer meets its listing
criteria and is eligible to submit a listing application. See IEX Rule 14.201.

296

See IEX Rule 14.203(f); 15 U.S.C. 78l(d).

81

Commission may determine. 297 Once registration is effective the security is eligible for listing
on IEX. 298
2.

Initial and Continuing Listing Standards

The Commission notes that IEX’s proposed initial and continuing listing standards for
securities to be listed and traded on the IEX Exchange are virtually identical to the current rules
for the Nasdaq Global Select Market of The NASDAQ Stock Market. 299 The Commission has
previously determined that the initial and continuing listing standards of Nasdaq are consistent
with the Act. 300 The Commission believes that IEX’s proposed initial and continuing listing
standards are consistent with the requirements of the Act. With respect to the standards relating
to the listing and delisting of companies, including procedures and prerequisites for initial and
continued listing on IEX, obligations of security issuers listed on IEX, as well as rules describing
the application and qualification process, 301 IEX’s proposed listing rules for securities are

297

15 U.S.C. 78l(d).

298

See IEX Rule 14.203(f); 15 U.S.C. 78l(d).

299

See Nasdaq Rule 5000 series; IEX Rule Chapters 14 and 16. In addition, IEX proposed a
Confidential Pre-Application Review of Eligibility for its proposed listing standards,
which is based on the equivalent rule of the New York Stock Exchange. See IEX Rule
14.201; see also NYSE Listed Company Manual Sections 101 and 104 (providing for a
free confidential review of the eligibility for listing of any company that requests such a
review and provides the necessary documents).

300

See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 53128 (January 13, 2006), 71 FR 3550
(January 23, 2006) (File No. 10-131) (approving the application of Nasdaq to become a
registered national securities exchange). See also Securities Exchange Act Release No.
66648 (March 23, 2012), 77 FR 19428 (March 30, 2012) (SR-NASDAQ-2012-013)
(approving the adoption of listing rules relating to certain derivative securities products).

301

See IEX Rules Chapter 14. IEX Rule 14.201 is the same as the NYSE rule, both of
which relate to the confidential pre-application review for eligibility for companies
seeking to list on the Exchange. See IEX Rule 14.201; see also NYSE Listed Company
Manual Sections 101 and 104. The Commission notes that, except for IEX Rule 14.201
(which is substantively similar to the rule of NYSE), all other requirements relating to the

82

virtually identical to those of Nasdaq. With respect to IEX Rule 14.201, which is substantially
similar to the analogous rule of NYSE, 302 IEX requires a company seeking the initial listing of
one or more classes of securities on IEX to participate in a free confidential pre-application
eligibility review to determine whether the company meets the IEX Exchange’s listing criteria
and, if, upon completion of this review, IEX determines that a company is eligible for listing,
IEX will notify that company in writing that it has been cleared to submit an original listing
application. The Commission notes that, if, upon completion of this review, the Exchange
determines that a company is ineligible for listing, the company may request a review of IEX’s
determination pursuant to the process set forth in IEX Rule 9.555. In addition, with respect to
the standards relating to other securities, including securities of exchange-traded funds and other
exchange-traded derivative securities products, the Commission notes that IEX’s proposed
listing rules are virtually identical to those of Nasdaq. 303
3.

Corporate Governance Standards

The Commission notes that IEX’s proposed corporate governance standards in
connection with securities to be listed and traded on the IEX Exchange are virtually identical to
the current rules of Nasdaq and the NYSE. 304 The Commission has previously determined that
the corporate governance standards for listed issuers of Nasdaq and NYSE are consistent with

listing of companies are virtually identical to those of Nasdaq. See Nasdaq Rule 5000
series
302

See supra note 301 (referencing IEX Rule 14.201 and NYSE Listed Company Manual
Sections 101 and 104).

303

See IEX Rules Chapter 16. See also the Nasdaq Rule 5000 series.

304

See Nasdaq Rule 5600 et seq.; NYSE Listed Company Manual Section 303A.07(c)
(requiring listed companies to maintain an internal audit function to provide management
and the audit committee with ongoing assessments of the listed company’s risk
management processes and system of internal control). See also IEX Rule 14.414.

83

the Act. 305 The Commission finds that IEX’s proposed corporate governance listing standards
for listed issuers contained in IEX’s proposed rules are consistent with Section 6(b)(5) of the Act
and satisfy the requirements of Section 10A(m) of the Act and Rule 10A-3 thereunder. 306 The
Commission believes that IEX’s corporate governance standards for listed issuers are designed to
promote independent and objective review and oversight of the accounting and auditing practices
of listed issuers and to enhance audit committee independence, authority, and responsibility by
implementing the standards set forth in Rule 10A-3.
While IEX does not intend to list securities upon becoming an exchange, it has expressed
an intent to do so in the future. 307 The Commission believes that the listings program is an
important regulatory function of an exchange, and prior to becoming a primary listing market,
the Commission expects IEX to ensure its effective compliance with, and enforcement of, its
listing standards on an initial and continued basis. 308

305

See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 53128 (January 13, 2006), 71 FR 3550
(January 23, 2006) (File No. 10-131) (approving the application of Nasdaq to become a
registered national securities exchange). The Commission notes that IEX proposed to
adopt NYSE’s requirement for listed issuers to have an internal audit function. See supra
note 304 (referencing NYSE Listed Company Manual Section 303A.07(c) and IEX Rule
14.414). See also Securities Exchange Act Release No. 48745 (November 4, 2003), 68
FR 64154 (November 12, 2003) (SR-NYSE-2002-33, SR-NASD-2002-77, SR-NASD2002-80, SR-NASD-2002-138, SR-NASD-2002-139, and SR-NASD-2002-141) (order
approving rules relating to corporate governance of listed companies, including rules
relating to the internal audit function).

306

See 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5); 15 U.S.C. 78j-1(m); 17 CFR 240.10A-3.

307

See Exhibit N to IEX’s Form 1. Upon commencing operations as an exchange, IEX
intends to initially trade only securities that have been admitted pursuant to unlisted
trading privileges. See Exhibit H to IEX’s Form 1.

308

See 15 U.S.C. 78s(g)(1).

84

4.

Trading Pursuant to Unlisted Trading Privileges

As an exchange, IEX will be permitted by Section 12(f) of the Act 309 to extend unlisted
trading privileges to securities listed and registered on other national securities exchanges,
subject to Commission rules. In particular, Rule 12f-5 under the Act requires an exchange that
extends unlisted trading privileges to securities to have in effect a rule or rules providing for
transactions in the class or type of security to which the exchange extends unlisted trading
privileges. 310 The Commission notes that IEX’s proposed rules allow it to extend unlisted
trading privileges to any security that is an NMS Stock (as defined in Rule 600 of Regulation
NMS under the Act) that is listed on another national securities exchange. 311 Accordingly,
consistent with Rule 12f-5, IEX’s proposed rules provide for transactions in the class or type of
security to which the exchange intends to extend unlisted trading privileges. 312 The Commission
finds that IEX’s proposed rules governing trading pursuant to unlisted trading privileges are
therefore consistent with the Act.
F.

Section 11(a) of the Act

Section 11(a)(1) of the Act 313 prohibits a member of a national securities exchange from
effecting transactions on that exchange for its own account, the account of an associated person,

309

15 U.S.C. 78l.

310

See 17 CFR 240.12f-5. See also Securities Exchange Act Release No. 35737 (April 21,
1995), 60 FR 20891 (April 28, 1995) (File No. S7-4-95) (adopting Rule 12f-5 under the
Act).

311

See IEX Rules 11.120 and 16.160. Any such security will be subject to all IEX trading
rules applicable to NMS Stocks, unless otherwise noted, including provisions of IEX
Rule 11.280 and Chapters 14 and 16 of the IEX Rules. See IEX Rule 16.160.

312

IEX’s rules currently do not provide for the trading of options, security futures, or other
similar instruments.

313

15 U.S.C. 78k(a)(1).

85

or an account over which it or its associated person exercises investment discretion (collectively,
“covered accounts”) unless an exception applies. Rule 11a2-2(T) under the Act, 314 known as the
“effect versus execute” rule, provides exchange members with an exemption from the Section
11(a)(1) prohibition. Rule 11a2-2(T) permits an exchange member, subject to certain conditions,
to effect transactions for covered accounts by arranging for an unaffiliated member to execute
transactions on the exchange. To comply with Rule 11a2-2(T)’s conditions, a member: (i) must
transmit the order from off the exchange floor; (ii) may not participate in the execution of the
transaction once it has been transmitted to the member performing the execution; 315 (iii) may not
be affiliated with the executing member; and (iv) with respect to an account over which the
member or an associated person has investment discretion, neither the member nor its associated
person may retain any compensation in connection with effecting the transaction except as
provided in the Rule.
In a letter to the Commission, IEX requested that the Commission concur with IEX’s
conclusion that IEX members that enter orders into the IEX trading system satisfy the
requirements of Rule 11a2-2(T). 316 For the reasons set forth below, the Commission believes
that IEX members entering orders into the IEX trading system would satisfy the requirements of
Rule 11a2-2(T).
The Rule’s first requirement is that orders for covered accounts be transmitted from off
the exchange floor. In the context of automated trading systems, the Commission has found that

314

17 CFR 240.11a2-2(T).

315

This prohibition also applies to associated persons. The member may, however,
participate in clearing and settling the transaction.

316

See Letter from Sophia Lee, General Counsel, IEX, to Brent Fields, Secretary,
Commission, dated June 10, 2016 (“IEX 11(a) Letter”).

86

the off-floor transmission requirement is met if a covered account order is transmitted from a
remote location directly to an exchange’s floor by electronic means. 317 IEX has represented that
the IEX Exchange does not have a physical trading floor, and the IEX trading system will
receive orders from members electronically through remote terminals or computer-to-computer
interfaces. 318 The Commission believes that the IEX trading system satisfies this off-floor
transmission requirement.
Second, the Rule requires that the member and any associated person not participate in
the execution of its order after the order has been transmitted. IEX represented that at no time
following the submission of an order is a member or an associated person of the member able to
acquire control or influence over the result or timing of the order’s execution. 319 According to

317

See, e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 61419 (January 26, 2010), 75 FR 5157
(February 1, 2010) (SR-BATS-2009-031) (approving BATS options trading); 59154
(December 23, 2008), 73 FR 80468 (December 31, 2008) (SR-BSE-2008-48) (approving
equity securities listing and trading on BSE); 57478 (March 12, 2008), 73 FR 14521
(March 18, 2008) (SR-NASDAQ-2007-004 and SR-NASDAQ-2007-080) (approving
NOM options trading); 53128 (January 13, 2006), 71 FR 3550 (January 23, 2006) (File
No. 10-131) (approving The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC); 44983 (October 25, 2001), 66
FR 55225 (November 1, 2001) (SR-PCX-00-25) (approving Archipelago Exchange);
29237 (May 24, 1991), 56 FR 24853 (May 31, 1991) (SR-NYSE-90-52 and SR-NYSE90-53) (approving NYSE’s Off-Hours Trading Facility); and 15533 (January 29, 1979),
44 FR 6084 (January 31, 1979) (“1979 Release”).

318

See IEX 11(a) Letter, supra note 316.

319

See IEX 11(a) Letter, supra note 316. IEX notes that a member may cancel or modify the
order, or modify the instructions for executing the order, after the order has been
transmitted, provided that such cancellations or modifications are transmitted from off an
exchange floor. The Commission has stated that the non-participation requirement is
satisfied under such circumstances so long as such modifications or cancellations are also
transmitted from off the floor. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 14563 (March
14, 1978), 43 FR 11542 (March 17, 1978) (“1978 Release”) (stating that the “nonparticipation requirement does not prevent initiating members from canceling or
modifying orders (or the instructions pursuant to which the initiating member wishes
orders to be executed) after the orders have been transmitted to the executing member,
provided that any such instructions are also transmitted from off the floor”).

87

IEX, the execution of a member’s order is determined solely by what quotes and orders are
present in the system at the time the member submits the order, and the order priority based on
the IEX rules. 320 Accordingly, the Commission believes that an IEX member and its associated
persons do not participate in the execution of an order submitted to the IEX trading system. 321
Third, Rule 11a2-2(T) requires that the order be executed by an exchange member who is
unaffiliated with the member initiating the order. The Commission has stated that this
requirement is satisfied when automated exchange facilities, such as the IEX trading system, are
used, as long as the design of these systems ensures that members do not possess any special or
unique trading advantages in handling their orders after transmitting them to the exchange. 322
IEX has represented that the design of the IEX trading system ensures that no member has any
special or unique trading advantage in the handling of its orders after transmitting its orders to

320

See IEX 11(a) Letter, supra note 316. The Commission notes that IEX has proposed
rules for the registration, obligations, and operation of market makers on the IEX
Exchange. IEX has represented that market makers, if any, would submit quotes in the
form of orders in their assigned symbols.

321

See, e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 58375 (August 18, 2008), 73 FR 49498,
49505 (August 21, 2008) (approval of the BATS Exchange) and 61698 (March 12, 2010),
75 FR 13151, 13164 (March 28, 2010) (approval of the EDGA and EDGX exchanges).

322

See, e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 58375 (August 18, 2008), 73 FR 49498,
49505 (August 21, 2008) (approval of the BATS Exchange) and 61698 (March 12, 2010),
75 FR 13151, 13164 (March 28, 2010) (approval of the EDGA and EDGX exchanges).
In considering the operation of automated execution systems operated by an exchange,
the Commission noted that, while there is not an independent executing exchange
member, the execution of an order is automatic once it has been transmitted into the
system. Because the design of these systems ensures that members do not possess any
special or unique trading advantages in handling their orders after transmitting them to
the exchange, the Commission has stated that executions obtained through these systems
satisfy the independent execution requirement of Rule 11a2-2(T). See 1979 Release,
supra note 317.

88

IEX. 323 Based on IEX’s representation, the Commission believes that the IEX trading system
satisfies this requirement.
Fourth, in the case of a transaction effected for an account with respect to which the
initiating member or an associated person thereof exercises investment discretion, neither the
initiating member nor any associated person thereof may retain any compensation in connection
with effecting the transaction, unless the person authorized to transact business for the account
has expressly provided otherwise by written contract referring to Section 11(a) of the Act and
Rule 11a2-2(T) thereunder. 324 IEX members trading for covered accounts over which they
exercise investment discretion must comply with this condition in order to rely on the rule’s
exemption. 325

323

See IEX 11(a) Letter, supra note 316.

324

See, e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 58375 (August 18, 2008), 73 FR 49498,
49505 (August 21, 2008) (approval of the BATS Exchange) and 61698 (March 12, 2010),
75 FR 13151, 13164 (March 28, 2010) (approval of the EDGA and EDGX exchanges).
In addition, Rule 11a2-2(T)(d) requires a member or associated person authorized by
written contract to retain compensation, in connection with effecting transactions for
covered accounts over which such member or associated persons thereof exercises
investment discretion, to furnish at least annually to the person authorized to transact
business for the account a statement setting forth the total amount of compensation
retained by the member or any associated person thereof in connection with effecting
transactions for the account during the period covered by the statement. See 17 CFR
240.11a2-2(T)(d). See also 1978 Release, supra note 319 (stating “[t]he contractual and
disclosure requirements are designed to assure that accounts electing to permit
transaction-related compensation do so only after deciding that such arrangements are
suitable to their interests”).

325

IEX represented that it will advise its membership through the issuance of an Information
Circular that those members trading for covered accounts over which they exercise
investment discretion must comply with this condition in order to rely on the rule’s
exemption. See IEX 11(a) Letter, supra note 316.

89

IV.

Exemption from Section 19(b) of the Act With Regard to FINRA Rules Incorporated by
Reference
IEX Exchange proposes to incorporate by reference certain FINRA rules as IEX rules.

Thus, for certain IEX rules, Exchange members will comply with an IEX rule by complying with
the FINRA rule referenced. 326 In connection with its proposal to incorporate FINRA rules by
reference, IEX Exchange requested, pursuant to Rule 240.0-12, 327 an exemption under Section
36 of the Act from the rule filing requirements of Section 19(b) of the Act for changes to those
IEX Exchange rules that are effected solely by virtue of a change to a cross-referenced FINRA
rule. 328 IEX Exchange proposes to incorporate by reference categories of rules (rather than
individual rules within a category) that are not trading rules. IEX Exchange agrees to provide
written notice to its members whenever a proposed rule change to a FINRA rule that is
326

IEX Exchange proposes to incorporate by reference the 12000 and 13000 Series of the
FINRA Manual (Code of Arbitration Procedures for Customer Disputes and Code of
Arbitration Procedures for Industry Disputes). See IEX Exchange Rule 12.110
(Arbitration). In addition, IEX Exchange proposes to incorporate by reference FINRA
Rules 4360 (Fidelity Bonds), 2090 (Know Your Customer), 2111 (Suitability), 2210
(Communications with the Public), 3230 (Telemarketing), 4110 (Capital Requirements),
4120 (Regulatory Notification and Business Curtailment), 4140 (Audit), 4511 (General
Requirements), 4512 (Customer Account Information), 4513 (Records of Written
Customer Complaints), 3130 (Annual Certification of Compliance and Supervisory
Procedures), 5270 (Front Running of Block Transactions), 7430 (Synchronization of
Member Business Clocks), 7440 (Recording of Order Information), and 7450 (Order
Data Transmission Requirements) and NASD Rule 3050 (Transactions for or by
Associated Persons). See IEX Exchange Rules 2.240 (Fidelity Bonds), 3.150 (Know
Your Customer), 3.170 (Suitability), 3.280 (Communications with Customers and the
Public), 3.292 (Telemarketing), 4.110 (Financial Condition), 4.120 (Regulatory
Notification and Business Curtailment), 4.140 (Audit), 4.511 (General Requirements),
4.512 (Customer Account Information), 4.513 (Record of Written Customer Complaints),
5.130 (Annual Certification of Compliance and Supervisory Procedures), 10.260 (Front
Running of Block Transactions), 11.420(c), (d) and (e) (Order Audit Trail System
Requirements), and 5.170 (Transactions for or by Associated Persons), respectively.

327

See 17 CFR 240.0-12.

328

See Letter from Sophia Lee, General Counsel, IEX, to Brent Fields, Secretary,
Commission, dated June 13, 2016.

90

incorporated by reference is proposed and whenever any such proposed change is approved by
the Commission or otherwise becomes effective. 329
Using its authority under Section 36 of the Act, 330 the Commission previously exempted
certain SROs from the requirement to file proposed rule changes under Section 19(b) of the
Act. 331 The Commission is hereby granting IEX Exchange’s request for exemption, pursuant to
Section 36 of the Act, from the rule filing requirements of Section 19(b) of the Act with respect
to the rules that IEX Exchange proposes to incorporate by reference. This exemption is
conditioned upon IEX Exchange providing written notice to its members whenever FINRA
proposes to change a rule that IEX Exchange has incorporated by reference. The Commission
believes that this exemption is appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the
protection of investors because it will promote more efficient use of Commission and SRO
resources by avoiding duplicative rule filings based on simultaneous changes to identical rules
sought by more than one SRO.
V.

Conclusion
IT IS ORDERED that the application of IEX Exchange for registration as a national

securities exchange be, and it hereby is, granted.
IT IS FURTHERED ORDERED that operation of IEX Exchange is conditioned on the
satisfaction of the requirements below:

329

IEX Exchange will provide such notice through a posting on the same website location
where IEX Exchange posts its own rule filings pursuant to Rule 19b-4 under the Act,
within the required time frame. The website posting will include a link to the location on
the FINRA website where FINRA’s proposed rule change is posted. See id.

330

15 U.S.C. 78mm.

331

See, e.g., BATS Y Exchange Order and MIAX Exchange Order, supra note 30; BATS
Exchange Order and DirectEdge Exchanges Order, supra note 74.

91

A.

Participation in National Market System Plans. IEX Exchange must join the CTA

Plan, the CQ Plan, the Nasdaq UTP Plan, the Order Execution Quality Disclosure Plan, the Plan
to Address Extraordinary Market Volatility, the Plan to Implement a Tick Size Pilot Program,
and the Plan Governing the Process of Selecting a Plan Processor and Developing a Plan for the
Consolidated Audit Trail.
B.

Intermarket Surveillance Group. IEX Exchange must join the Intermarket

Surveillance Group.
C.

Minor Rule Violation Plan. A MRVP filed by IEX Exchange under Rule 19d-

1(c)(2) must be declared effective by the Commission. 332
D.

17d-2 Agreement. An agreement pursuant to Rule 17d-2 333 between FINRA and

IEX Exchange that allocates to FINRA regulatory responsibility for those matters specified
above 334 must be approved by the Commission, or IEX Exchange must demonstrate that it
independently has the ability to fulfill all of its regulatory obligations.
E.

Participation in Multiparty Rule 17d-2 Plans. IEX Exchange must become a party

to the multiparty Rule 17d-2 agreement concerning the surveillance, investigation, and
enforcement of common insider trading rules.
F.

RSA. IEX Exchange and FINRA must finalize the provisions in the RSA, as

described above, that will specify the IEX Exchange and Commission rules for which FINRA
will provide certain regulatory functions, or IEX Exchange must demonstrate that it
independently has the ability to fulfill all of its regulatory obligations.

332

17 CFR 240.19d-1(c)(2).

333

17 CFR 240.17d-2.

334

See supra notes 134-135 and accompanying text.

92

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED, pursuant to Section 36 of the Act, 335 that IEX Exchange
shall be exempted from the rule filing requirements of Section 19(b) of the Act with respect to
the FINRA rules that IEX proposes to incorporate by reference into IEX Exchange’s rules,
subject to the conditions specified in this Order.

By the Commission (Chair WHITE and Commissioner STEIN; Commissioner
PIWOWAR concurring in part and dissenting with respect to Sections III.C.7 and III.C.8).

Robert Errett
Deputy Secretary

335

15 U.S.C. 78mm.

93

EXHIBIT A
Comment Letters Received Regarding Investors’ Exchange LLC’s Application for Registration
as a National Securities Exchange under Section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (File
No. 10-222)
Abebe:

Letter from Brook Abebe, Dec. 15, 2015

Abel/Noser:

Letter from Eugene Noser, Abel/Noser
Corp., Dec. 17, 2015

Abfall:

Letter from Jeffrey D. Abfall, Dec. 10,
2015

Addy:

Letter from Steven Addy, Dec. 11, 2015

Aesthetic Integration:

Letter from Denis A. Ignatovich and
Grant Passmore, Co-Founders, Aesthetic
Integration Ltd, Nov. 18, 2015

Agne:

Letter from Mike Agne, Dec. 10, 2015

Ahlfeld:

Letter from Ryan Ahlfeld, Dec. 14, 2015

Akbar:

Letter from Imran Akbar, Dec. 14, 2015

Albert:

Letter from Jean Albert, Dec. 15, 2015

Angel:

Letter from James J. Angel, Ph.D.,
Associate Professor, McDonough School
of Business, Georgetown University,
Dec. 5, 2015

Anonymous December 5:

Letter from Anonymous, Dec. 5, 2015

Anonymous December 14:

Letter from Anonymous, Dec. 14, 2015

Anonymous Second December 14:

Letter from Anonymous, Dec. 14, 2015

Anonymous March 14:

Letter from Anonymous, Mar. 14, 2016

Anonymous March 18:

Letter from Anonymous, Mar. 18, 2016

Anonymous June 16:

Letter from Anonymous, June 16, 2016

Arens:

Letter from Richard Arens, Dec. 10,
2015

94

Armand:

Letter from Barry Armand, Dec. 13,
2015

Arnold:

Letter from Lonnie Arnold, Jr., Feb. 2,
2016

Asset Owners/Investment Managers Letter from Kevin McCreadie, President
and CIO, AGF Investment Inc.; Steve
March 21:
Berexa, Global CIO Equity, Allianz
Global Investors; Bryan Thomson,
Senior Vice President, Public Equities,
British Columbia Investment
Management; Faith Ward, Chief
Responsible Investment and Risk
Officer, Environment Agency Pension
Fund; Michelle de Cordova, Director,
Corporate Engagement Public Policy,
ESG Services, NEI Investments; Oyvind
Schanke, CIO Asset Strategies, Norges
Bank Investment Management; and
David H. Zellner, Chief Investment
Officer, Wespath Investment
Management, Mar. 21, 2016
Baggins:

Letter from Roger Baggins, Feb. 2, 2016

Baird:

Letter from Ritchie Baird, Jan. 3, 2016

Baker:

Letter from Christopher Baker, Dec. 11,
2015

Ballestrand:

Letter from Bill Ballestrand, Dec. 14,
2015

Bardini:

Letter from Marguerite Bardini, Dec. 14,
2015

Barry:

Letter from Catherine Barry, Jan. 2, 2016

Barth:

Letter from Donald J. Barth, Mar. 4,
2016

BATS First:

Letter from Eric Swanson, EVP and
General Counsel, BATS Global Markets,
Inc., Nov. 3, 2015

BATS Second:

Letter from Eric Swanson, EVP and
General Counsel, BATS Global Markets,

95

Inc., Dec. 20, 2015
BATS Third:

Letter from Eric Swanson, EVP and
General Counsel, BATS Global Markets,
Inc., Feb. 11, 2016

Bautista:

Letter from Barry Bautista, June 17, 2016

Ben D.:

Letter from Ben D., Mar. 20, 2016

Benites:

Letter from Roger Benites, Dec. 13, 2015

Bensky:

Letter from Jonathan Bensky, Mar. 3,
2016

Berrizbeitia:

Letter from Luis Berrizbeitia, Dec. 14,
2015

Bilyea:

Letter from Robert Bilyea, Dec. 17, 2015

Bingham:

Letter from George B. Bingham, Jan. 8,
2016

Birch Bay:

Letter from Michael Jacejko, Chief
Executive Manager, Birch Bay Capital,
LLC, Nov. 6, 2015

Black:

Letter from Wade Black, Dec. 17, 2015

Boatman:

Letter from Peter L. Boatman, June 3,
2016

Bodenstab:

Letter from Jeffrey Bodenstab, Dec. 19,
2015

Bogdan:

Letter from Michael Bogdan, Dec. 15,
2015

Bohr:

Letter from Vincent Bohr, Dec. 11, 2015

Boittiaux:

Letter from Thomas Boittiaux, Apr. 22,
2016

Borbridge:

Letter from Harold Borbridge, Dec. 13,
2015

Bova:

Letter from Nicholas M. Bova, Dec. 14,
2015

96

Bowcott:

Letter from Mike Bowcott, Dec. 9, 2015

Boyce:

Letter from Edward J. Boyce, Dec. 14,
2015

Brennan:

Letter from Michael Brennan, Dec. 16,
2015

Brenner:

Letter from Daniel S. Brenner, Dec. 14,
2015

Brian S.:

Letter from Brian S., Dec. 10, 2015

Broder:

Letter from Michael K. Broder, Jan. 9,
2016

Bruin:

Letter from Eric Bruin, Dec. 16, 2015

Buckingham:

Letter from Mallory Buckingham, Dec.
15, 2015

Budish:

Letter from Eric Budish, Professor of
Economics, University of Chicago Booth
School of Business, Feb. 5, 2016

Burger:

Letter from Ronald J. Burger, Dec. 19,
2015

Burgess:

Letter from Jack M. Burgess, Dec. 26,
2015

Byrnes:

Letter from Jannette Byrnes, Dec. 13,
2015

CalSTRS:

Letter from Anne Sheehan, Director of
Corporate Governance, California State
Teachers’ Retirement System, Mar. 10,
2016

Campbell:

Letter from Mike Campbell, Dec. 15,
2015

Cantori:

Letter from John Cantori, Dec. 11, 2015

Capital Group:

Letter from Timothy D. Armour,
Chairman, The Capital Group
Companies, Sep. 29, 2015

97

Carper:

Letter from Carol Carper, Dec. 27, 2015

Chen & Foley:

Letter from Haoming Chen and Sean
Foley, Ph.D., Feb. 24, 2016

Chesler:

Letter from Dan Chesler, Dec. 15, 2015

Chilson:

Letter from Cody J. Chilson, Dec. 10,
2015

Chung and Jeon:

Letter from Michael Chung and Jayoung
Jeon, Apr. 10, 2016

Chung:

Letter from Charles Chung, Dec. 15,
2015

Citadel First:

Letter from John C. Nagel, Esq.,
Managing Director and Sr. Deputy
General Counsel, Citadel LLC, Nov. 6,
2015

Citadel Second:

Letter from John C. Nagel, Esq.,
Managing Director and Sr. Deputy
General Counsel, Citadel LLC, Nov. 30,
2015

Citadel Third:

Letter from John C. Nagel, Esq.,
Managing Director and Sr. Deputy
General Counsel, Citadel LLC, Dec. 7,
2015

Citadel Fourth:

Letter from John C. Nagel, Esq.,
Managing Director and Sr. Deputy
General Counsel, Citadel LLC, Feb. 23,
2016

Citadel Fifth:

Letter from John C. Nagel, Esq.,
Managing Director and Sr. Deputy
General Counsel, Citadel LLC, Apr. 14,
2016

Clark B.:

Letter from Bruce R. Clark, Ph.D., Dec.
22, 2015

Clark J. First:

Letter from James T. Clark, Jr., Dec. 11,
2015

98

Clark J. Second:

Letter from James T. Clark, Jr., Dec. 15,
2015

Clark K.:

Letter from Kyle Clark, Dec. 14, 2015

Cobb:

Letter from Jeffrey Cobb, Feb. 13, 2016

Coe:

Letter from Charles R. Coe, Dec. 10,
2015

Colbert:

Letter from Stephen Colbert, Dec. 10,
2015

Cole:

Letter from Rebecca A. Cole, Mar. 20,
2016

Conklin:

Letter from J.J. Conklin, Jan. 5, 2016

Connolly:

Letter from Francis A. Connolly, III, Feb.
2, 2016

Cook:

Letter from Aran Cook, Dec. 14, 2015

Copelan:

Letter from Julie Copelan, Feb. 22, 2016

Cowen:

Letter from Jeffrey M. Solomon,
President, Daniel Charney, Managing
Director and Head of Equities, and John
Cosenza, Managing Director & Head of
Electronic Trading, Cowen Group, Inc.,
Nov. 2, 2015

Cox First:

Letter from Steven M. Cox, Dec. 10,
2015

Cox Second:

Letter from Steven M. Cox, Feb. 2, 2016

CPMG:

Letter from John E. Bateman, Chief
Operating Officer, CPMG, Inc., Jan. 5,
2016

Crespo:

Letter from Pablo Crespo, Dec. 10, 2015

Cull:

Letter from Stephanie Cull, Mar. 31,
2016

Curtin:

Letter from Kim Ann Curtin, Jan. 15,
2016

99

D.B.:

Letter from D.B., Apr. 5, 2016

Dall:

Letter from Cindy Dall, May 11, 2016

Daniels:

Letter from Larry Daniels, Jan. 23, 2016

Deccristifaro:

Letter from Aj Deccristifaro, Feb. 21,
2016

Delaney:

Letter from Stephen W. Delaney, Jan. 1,
2016

Demos:

Letter from Mark Demos, Dec. 16, 2015

DePoorter:

Letter from Walter DePoorter, Dec. 14,
2015

DeVito:

Letter from David J. DeVito, Dec. 10,
2015

Direct Match:

Letter from Jim Greco, CEO, Direct
Match, Feb. 24, 2016

Discepola:

Letter from Domenico Discepola, Dec.
11, 2015

Dole:

Letter from William Dole, Dec. 14, 2015

Doran:

Letter from Brendan Doran, Dec. 13,
2015

Dover:

Letter from Roland Dover, Jan. 31, 2016

Doyle L.:

Letter from Larry Doyle , Dec. 14, 2015

Doyle T.:

Letter from Thomas Doyle, Jan. 21, 2016

Duffy:

Letter from Representative Sean P.
Duffy, Jan. 21, 2016

Dukelow:

Letter from James S. Dukelow, Jr., Dec.
18, 2015

Dwork:

Letter from Nicholas Dwork, Jan. 27,
2016

Eric K.:

Letter from Eric K., Feb. 16, 2016

100

Estate:

Letter from Carlos J. Estate, Feb. 28,
2016

Eustace:

Letter from Mark Eustace, Dec. 13, 2015

Farallon Capital Management:

Letter from Andrew J.M. Spokes,
Managing Partner, Farallon Capital
Management, LLC, Mar. 2, 2016

Feldscher:

Letter from Stephen Feldscher, Mar. 22,
2016

Ferber:

Letter from William Ferber, May 7, 2016

fi360:

Letter from Blaine F. Aikin, Executive
Chairman, J. Richard Lynch, Director,
and Duane R. Thompson, Senior Policy
Analyst, fi360, Inc., Jan. 5, 2016

FIA First:

Letter from Mary Ann Burns, Chief
Operating Officer, FIA Principal Traders
Group, Nov. 6, 2015

FIA Second:

Letter from Mary Ann Burns, Chief
Operating Officer, FIA Principal Traders
Group, Mar. 3, 2016

Fields:

Letter from Byron Fields, Jan. 13, 2016

Filabi:

Letter from Azish Filabi, Feb. 3, 2016

Finley:

Letter from Ted Finley, Dec. 14, 2015

Franklin Templeton Investments:

Letter from Madison S. Gulley, EVP,
Head of Investment Management
Strategic Services, William J. Stephenson
IV, SVP, Global Head of Trading, David
A. Lewis, SVP, Head of Americas
Trading, Benjamin Batory, SVP, Head of
U.S. Trading, and Craig S. Tyle, EVP,
General Counsel, Franklin Templeton
Investments, Feb. 12, 2016

Franz:

Letter from John P. Franz, Feb. 25, 2016

Froehlich:

Letter from Paul Froehlich, Dec. 10,
2015

101

Gai:

Letter from Robert Gai, Feb. 24, 2016

Gannon:

Letter from James Gannon, Dec. 10,
2015

Geduld:

Letter from E.E. Geduld, Dec. 18, 2015

Gibbons P.:

Letter from Peter Gibbons, Dec. 10, 2015

Gibbons T.:

Letter from Toni Gibbons, Dec. 14, 2015

Gibson Dunn:

Letter from Amir C. Tayrani, Gibson,
Dunn & Crutcher LLP, May 19, 2016

Giguere:

Letter from John Giguere, Dec. 14, 2015

Gilliland and Goodlander:

Letter from Jason Gilliland and Maggie
Goodlander, Apr. 14, 2016

Givehchi:

Letter from Mehran Givehchi, Dec. 14,
2015

Glatt:

Letter from Alex Glatt, Dec. 14, 2015

Glennon:

Letter from Allan Glennon, Dec. 10,
2015

Gloy First:

Letter from Alexander Gloy, Dec. 10,
2015

Gloy Second:

Letter from Alexander Gloy, Dec. 15,
2015

Godden:

Letter from Daniel Godden, May 31,
2016

Godonis:

Letter from Anthony Godonis, Jan. 28,
2016

Gold:

Letter from James J. Gold, Jan. 9, 2016

Goldman Sachs:

Letter from Paul M. Russo, Managing
Director, Equities, Goldman, Sachs &
Co., Jan. 12, 2016

Gordon:

Letter from Doug Gordon, Dec. 13, 2015

Goswami:

Letter from Binoo Goswami, Jan. 24,

102

2016
Gough:

Letter from William S. Gough, Jan. 22,
2016

Grant:

Letter from John Grant, Dec. 13, 2015

Green:

Letter from Jordan Green, Feb. 9, 2016

Grey:

Letter from Richard M. Grey, Feb. 23,
2016

Guertin:

Letter from Robert Guertin, Dec. 11,
2015

Hall:

Letter from Lori Hall, Dec. 13, 2015

Hamadyk:

Letter from Zach Hamadyk, Dec. 19,
2015

Hamlin:

Letter from David Hamlin, Dec. 19, 2015

Hammermill:

Letter from Winston Hammermill, Jan.
22, 2016

Hammond:

Letter from Shaun Hammond, Feb. 21,
2016

Hand:

Letter from David A. Hand, Jan. 27,
2016

Harbort:

Letter from Timothy S. Harbort, Dec. 11,
2015

Harrison:

Letter from Daniel Harrison, Dec. 19,
2015

Hartley:

Letter from Kirk T. Hartley, Dec. 13,
2015

Hasan:

Letter from Nidal Hasan, Dec. 17, 2015

Hawley:

Letter from James Hawley, Dec. 14,
2015

Haydel:

Letter from Christopher J. Haydel, Dec.
11, 2015

103

Healthy Markets:

Letter from David Lauer, Chairman,
Healthy Markets Association, Nov. 6,
2015

Hedgepath:

Letter from Brandon D. Hedgepath, Dec.
11, 2015

Henderson First:

Letter from Hazel Henderson, President
and Founder, Ethical Markets Media,
Jan. 5, 2016

Henderson Second:

Letter from Hazel Henderson, President
and Founder, Ethical Markets Media,
Jan. 5, 2016

Henderson Third:

Letter from Hazel Henderson, President
and Founder, Ethical Markets Media,
Jan. 5, 2016

Henry:

Letter from Patrick Henry, Dec. 19, 2015

Hibernia:

Letter from Emma Hibernia, Dec. 23,
2015

Hiester:

Letter from Christopher Hiester, Dec. 14,
2015

Holden First:

Letter from C.M. Holden, Dec. 13, 2015

Holden Second:

Letter from C.M. Holden, Dec. 14, 2015

Hollinger:

Letter from Nancy Hollinger, Feb. 8,
2016

Hooper:

Letter from Donald C. Hooper, Feb. 22,
2016

Hovanec First:

Letter from Ron Hovanec, Dec. 10, 2015

Hovanec Second:

Letter from Ron Hovanec, Dec. 14, 2015

Hovanec Third:

Letter from Ron Hovanec, Feb. 1, 2016

Hovanec Fourth:

Letter from Ron Hovanec, Feb. 2, 2016

Hovanec Fifth:

Letter from Ron Hovanec, Feb. 25, 2016

Hovanec Sixth:

Letter from Ron Hovanec, Feb. 26, 2016

104

Hovanec Seventh:

Letter from Ron Hovanec, Mar. 9, 2016

Howarth:

Letter from Charles Howarth, Dec. 10,
2015

Hudson River Trading First:

Letter from Adam Nunes, Head of
Business Development, Hudson River
Trading LLC, Dec. 4, 2015

Hudson River Trading Second:

Letter from Adam Nunes, Head of
Business Development, Hudson River
Trading LLC, Jan. 7, 2016

Huff:

Letter from TE Huff, Dec. 15, 2015

Hunsacker:

Letter from Derick Hunsacker, Dec. 11,
2015

Ianni:

Letter from Mike Ianni, Dec. 10, 2015

Ierardo First:

Letter from Mark Ierardo, Dec. 11, 2015

Ierardo Second:

Letter from Mark Ierardo, Dec. 16, 2015

Instinet:

Letter from John Comerford, Executive
Managing Director, Global Head of
Trading Research, Instinet Holdings
Incorporated, Mar. 2, 2016

Israel:

Letter from Representative Steve Israel,
June 16, 2016

Iyer First:

Letter from Sree Iyer, Dec. 14, 2015

Iyer Second:

Letter from Sree Iyer, Dec. 20, 2015

Jacobson:

Letter from Cameron Jacobson, Dec. 10,
2015

James G.:

Letter from James G., Dec. 15, 2015

Janson:

Letter from Susan C. Janson, Feb. 4,
2016

Jefferies:

Letter from Jefferies LLC, Jan. 14, 2016

Jicmon:

Letter from Laurentiu I. Jicmon, Ph.D.,
Dec. 10, 2015

105

John J.:

Letter from Jacob John, Mar. 17, 2016

John M.:

Letter from Mike John, Dec. 10, 2015

John P.:

Letter from Pramod John, Ph.D., Jan. 29,
2016

Johnson:

Letter from Robert S. Johnson, May 27,
2016

Jon D.:

Letter from Jon D., Dec. 23, 2015

Jones C.:

Letter from Charles M. Jones, Robert W.
Lear Professor of Finance and
Economics, Columbia Business School,
Mar. 2, 2016

Jones S.:

Letter from Sam F. Jones, Dec. 15, 2015

Joshi:

Letter from Kishore A. Joshi, Feb. 5,
2016

Julos:

Letter from Jena A. Julos, Dec. 16, 2015

Jurgens:

Letter from Daniel T. Jurgens, Dec. 10,
2015

Kaeuper:

Letter from Steve Kaeuper, Dec. 19,
2015

Kara:

Letter from Faizal Kara, Dec. 14, 2015

Katz:

Letter from Sondra Katz, Dec. 17, 2015

Kaye:

Letter from Greg Kaye, Dec. 15, 2015

Kearney:

Letter from Michael Kearney, Dec. 14,
2015

Keblish First:

Letter from Peter Keblish, Dec. 9, 2015

Keblish Second:

Letter from Peter Keblish, Dec. 10, 2015

Keenan:

Letter from Chris Keenan, Dec. 18, 2015

Kelly:

Letter from John A. Kelly, Dec. 14, 2015

Kendall:

Letter from Jack R. Kendall, Feb. 4, 2016

106

Kennedy First:

Letter from Matthew Kennedy, Dec. 10,
2015

Kennedy Second:

Letter from Matthew Kennedy, Dec. 16,
2015

Kenyon:

Letter from Andrew Kenyon, Dec. 14,
2015

Kiely:

Letter from Philip Kiely, Mar. 17, 2016

Kiessling:

Letter from David Kiessling, Dec. 14,
2015

Kim:

Letter from Seong-Han Kim, Ph.D., Dec.
16, 2015

King First:

Letter from Toby King, Dec. 10, 2015

King Second:

Letter from Toby King, Dec. 13, 2015

King Third:

Letter from Toby King, Dec. 31, 2015

AK Financial Engineering
Consultants First:

Letter from Abraham Kohen, President,
AK Financial Engineering Consultants
LLC, Mar. 11, 2016

AK Financial Engineering
Consultants Second:

Letter from Abraham Kohen, President,
AK Financial Engineering Consultants
LLC, Apr. 25, 2016

Lafayette:

Letter from Marcus Lafayette, Dec. 28,
2015

Lancastle:

Letter from Neil M. Lancastle, Senior
Lecturer, Accounting and Finance, De
Montfort University, Dec. 21, 2015

Landis Kenesaw:

Letter from Kenesaw Landis, Feb. 9,
2016

Landis Kenneth:

Letter from Kenneth Landis, Jan. 1, 2016

Lantry:

Letter from Jackie Lantry, Dec. 14, 2015

Larson:

Letter from Brian C. Larson, Dec. 22,
2015

107

Laub:

Letter from Craig B. Laub, Dec. 18, 2015

Lazarus:

Letter from Steve Lazarus, Dec. 14, 2015

Lee F.:

Letter from Francis Lee, Jan. 8, 2016

Lee S.:

Letter from Sang Lee, Dec. 10, 2015

Leeson:

Letter from Brock Leeson, Jan. 15, 2016

Leff:

Letter from Bruce Leff, Dec. 26, 2015

Leino:

Letter from Scott Leino, Dec. 29, 2015

Leuchtkafer First:

Letter from R.T. Leuchtkafer, Nov. 20,
2015

Leuchtkafer Second:

Letter from R.T. Leuchtkafer, Feb. 19,
2016

Levi:

Letter from J.D. Levi, Dec. 11, 2015

Levy:

Letter from Steven A. Levy, Dec. 14,
2015

Lewis:

Letter from Michael Lewis, Dec. 12,
2015

Lewkovich:

Letter from Robert Lewkovich, Dec. 14,
2015

Liquidnet:

Letter from Seth Merrin, Founder and
CEO, Liquidnet Holdings, Feb. 23, 2016

Loh:

Letter from Roger Loh, Jan. 11, 2016

Long:

Letter from Richard Long, Jan. 15, 2016

Loomis:

Letter from David Loomis, Dec. 16, 2015

Luce First:

Letter from Steve Luce, Dec. 10, 2015

Luce Second:

Letter from Steve Luce, Dec. 12, 2015

Luoma:

Letter from Jeremiah Luoma, Professor
of Economics, Finlandia University, Dec.
17, 2015

108

Lupinski:

Letter from Ryan Lupinski, Jan. 22, 2016

Lynch:

Letter from Representative Stephen F.
Lynch, Jan. 8, 2016

Lysko:

Letter from Greg Lysko, May 21, 2016

Mack:

Letter from Carol Mack, Jan. 31, 2016

MacLeod:

Letter from Neil MacLeod, Dec. 17,
2015

Mannheim:

Letter from Lou Mannheim, Dec. 12,
2015

Manushi First:

Letter from Ektrit Manushi, Dec. 24,
2015

Manushi Second:

Letter from Ektrit Manushi, Dec. 29,
2015

Maqbool:

Letter from Massoud Maqbool, May 26,
2016

Markit First:

Letter from David Weisberger, Managing
Director, Markit, Dec. 23, 2015

Markit Second:

Letter from David Weisberger, Managing
Director, Markit, Feb. 16, 2016

Marquez:

Letter from Thelma Marquez, Dec. 14,
2015

McCannon:

Letter from Xavier McCannon, Dec. 13,
2015

McCarty:

Letter from David McCarty, Dec. 16,
2015

McCloskey:

Letter from Michael J. McCloskey, Esq.,
Dec. 14, 2015

McGeer:

Letter from Jim McGeer, Dec. 10, 2015

McGeorge:

Letter from Don W. McGeorge, Jan. 4,
2016

McGowan:

Letter from D.S. McGowan, Dec. 10,

109

2015
McHugh:

Letter from James McHugh, Dec. 17,
2015

Meeks:

Letter from Thomas Meeks, Dec. 10,
2015

Mehlmann:

Letter from Tino Mehlmann, Dec. 10,
2015

Melin:

Letter from Mark H. Melin, Dec. 11,
2015

Meskill:

Letter from Duncan S. Meskill, Dec. 10,
2015

Metzger:

Letter from Andrew Metzger, Mar. 5,
2016

Meyer:

Letter from James Meyer, Dec. 10, 2015

Michail:

Letter from Theocharis Michail, Mar. 7,
2016

Michel:

Letter from Daniel Michel, Feb. 22, 2016

Millard:

Letter from Sean Millard, Dec. 10, 2015

Milligan:

Letter from Christopher Milligan, Dec.
23, 2015

Modern Markets:

Letter from William R. Harts, CEO,
Modern Markets Initiative, Dec. 3, 2015

ModernIR:

Letter from Tim Quast , President,
ModernNetworks IR LLC, Dec. 7, 2015

Mollner:

Letter from Terry Mollner, Jan. 7, 2016

Montes:

Letter from David J. Montes, Dec. 15,
2015

Moore:

Letter from Dylan Moore, Feb. 28, 2016

Morgan:

Letter from Daniel Morgan, Dec. 15,
2015

110

Morris:

Letter from Kelly Morris, Apr. 9, 2016

Morrow:

Letter from Benjamin B. Morrow, Jan.
22, 2016

Moses:

Letter from Matt Moses, Dec. 15, 2015

Mulson:

Letter from Danny Mulson, Dec. 15,
2015

Murphy:

Letter from Ann Murphy, Associate
Dean, Undergraduate Studies, School of
Business, Stevens Institute of
Technology, Nov. 6, 2015

Murray:

Letter from Lynn G. Murray, Dec. 29,
2015

Nagel:

Letter from Jeff Nagel, Jan. 8, 2016

Nakamura:

Letter from Tomohiko Nakamura, Feb.
20, 2016

Nanex First:

Letter from Eric S. Hunsader, CEO,
Nanex, LLC, Dec. 14, 2015

Nanex Second:

Letter from Eric S. Hunsader, CEO,
Nanex, LLC, Jan. 20, 2016

Nanex Third:

Letter from Eric S. Hunsader, CEO,
Nanex, LLC, Jan. 25, 2016

Nasca:

Letter from Mark J. Nasca, Jan. 8, 2016

Nasdaq First:

Letter from Joan C. Conley, Senior Vice
President and Corporate Secretary,
Nasdaq, Inc., Nov. 10, 2015

Nasdaq Second:

Letter from Joan C. Conley, Senior Vice
President and Corporate Secretary,
Nasdaq, Inc., Jan. 29, 2016

Nasdaq Third:

Letter from Joan C. Conley, Senior Vice
President and Corporate Secretary,
Nasdaq, Inc., Mar. 16, 2016

Navari First:

Letter from David Navari, Oct. 26, 2015

111

Navari Second:

Letter from David Navari, Dec. 15, 2015

Navari Third:

Letter from David Navari, Feb. 22, 2016

Newman:

Letter from Lance Newman, Dec. 15,
2015

Nicholas:

Letter from Patrick Nicholas, Apr. 20,
2016

Nicolas F.:

Letter from Nicolas F., Dec. 10, 2015

Nispel First:

Letter from Mark Nispel, Ph.D., Dec. 10,
2015

Nispel Second:

Letter from Mark Nispel, Ph.D, Dec. 14,
2015

Nixon:

Letter from Kasumi Nixon, Jan. 14, 2016

Noack:

Letter from Jared Noack, Dec. 12, 2015

Noakes:

Letter from Nate Noakes, Dec. 15, 2015

Norges Bank:

Letter from Oeyvind G. Schanke, CIO,
Asset Strategies, and Simon Emrich,
Lead Analyst, Norges Bank Investment
Management, Dec. 16, 2015

Nye:

Letter from Joseph J. Nye, Dec. 15, 2015

NYSE First:

Letter from Elizabeth King, General
Counsel and Corporate Secretary, New
York Stock Exchange, Nov. 12, 2015

NYSE Second:

Letter from Elizabeth King, General
Counsel and Corporate Secretary, New
York Stock Exchange, Feb. 8, 2016

NYSE Third:

Letter from Elizabeth King, General
Counsel & Secretary, New York Stock
Exchange, Apr. 18, 2016

NYSE Fourth:

Letter from Elizabeth King, General
Counsel & Secretary, New York Stock
Exchange, Apr. 27, 2016

NYSTRS:

Letter from Thomas Lee, Executive
Director and Chief Investment Officer,
112

and Fred Herrmann, Managing Director
of Public Equities, New York State
Teachers’ Retirement System, Feb. 26,
2016
O’Connor

Letter from Peter O’Connor, Dec. 14,
2015

O’Malley:

Letter from William J. O’Malley, Feb. 5,
2016

O’Neill:

Letter from Robert O’Neill, Dec. 19,
2015

Odom:

Letter from Terry Odom, Feb. 23, 2016

Olson:

Letter from Greg Olson, Dec. 14, 2015

Oltean:

Letter from Ieronim Oltean, Dec. 10,
2015

Oorjitham:

Letter from Jeyan D. Oorjitham, Jan. 30,
2016

Oppenheimer Funds:

Letter from Krishna Memant, Executive
Vice President & Chief Investment
Officer, George R. Evans, Senior Vice
President & Chief Investment Officer of
Equities, Keith Spencer, Head of Equity
Trading & Senior Vice President, and
John Boydell, Manager of Equity
Trading & Vice President,
OppenheimerFunds, Inc., Nov. 5, 2015

Papas:

Letter from Gregory P. Papas, Dec. 16,
2015

Park:

Letter from Danielle Park, Dec. 10, 2015

Parks:

Letter from Gaelle Parks, Dec. 14, 2015

Patton C.:

Letter from Charles D. Patton, Dec. 14,
2015

Patton H.D.:

Letter from H.D. Patton, Dec. 14, 2015

Paulikot:

Letter from Cameron F. Paulikot, Jan. 12,

113

2016
Pavkovic:

Letter from Ivan Pavkovic, Dec. 17, 2015

PDQ Enterprises:

Letter from D. Keith Ross, Jr., Chairman
and CEO, PDQ Enterprises, LLC, Mar.
16, 2016

Peck:

Letter from Bob Peck, Dec. 30, 2015

Penkman:

Letter from David Penkman, Dec. 14,
2015

Peppers:

Letter from Emmet Peppers, Dec. 10,
2015

Phelps:

Letter from Robert C. Phelps, Dec. 13,
2015

Philip:

Letter from Richard Philip, Ph.D.,
Lecturer of Finance, University of
Sydney, Feb. 9, 2016

Phillips:

Letter from Jeff Phillips, Dec. 17, 2015

Pierce:

Letter from William E. Pierce, Dec. 15,
2015

Place:

Letter from James C. Place, Mar. 16,
2016

Plant:

Letter from Phillip M. Plant, Jan. 8, 2016

Poots:

Letter from Emanuel Poots, Dec. 20,
2015

Powell:

Letter from David R. Powell, Jan. 5,
2016

Pratt:

Letter from William Pratt, Dec. 11, 2015

Prihodka:

Letter from Jonathan M. Prihodka, Feb.
8, 2016

Prosser G.:

Letter from Gabriel Prosser, Feb. 18,
2016

Prosser W.:

Letter from Warren Prosser, Feb. 2, 2016

114

Proto:

Letter from Paul E. Proto, Feb. 3, 2016

PSRS/PEERS:

Letter from Craig A. Husting, Chief
Investment Officer, Public School &
Education Employee Retirement Systems
of Missouri, Mar. 22, 2016

Punt:

Letter from Ryan L. Punt, Dec. 10, 2015

Quinlan:

Letter from Michael Quinlan, Dec. 13,
2015

Rademaker:

Letter from Jaap Rademaker, Dec. 23,
2015

Rainbeau:

Letter from David Rainbeau, Dec. 10,
2015

Raju:

Letter from Muralidhara Raju, Mar. 1,
2016

Ramirez First:

Letter from Joe Ramirez, Dec. 10, 2015

Ramirez Second:

Letter from Joe Ramirez, Dec. 12, 2015

Rayner:

Letter from Geoff Rayner, Jan. 14, 2016

Reich:

Letter from Kyle Reich, Dec. 11, 2015

Renterman:

Letter from Lemco Renterman, Dec. 14,
2015

Reynoso:

Letter from J.W. Reynoso, Dec. 10, 2015

Robeson:

Letter from Paul Robeson, Jan. 8, 2016

Romani:

Letter from Marina Romani, Mar. 17,
2016

Romer:

Letter from Chris Romer, Mar. 25, 2016

Rosson:

Letter from Joseph C. Rosson, Sr., Dec.
14, 2015

Rothschild:

Letter from Evan Rothschild, Dec. 14,
2015

Rowley:

Letter from Robert P. Rowley, Jan. 5,

115

2016
Rundle:

Letter from John B. Rundle, Professor of
Physics, University of California, Davis,
Dec. 31, 2015

Sadera:

Letter from Ernest Sadera, Dec. 16, 2015

Sakato:

Letter from Stacius Sakato, Feb. 15, 2016

Sanitate:

Letter from Frank Sanitate, Dec. 14,
2015

Sarly:

Letter from Alex E. Sarly, Mar. 18, 2016

Scalici:

Letter from Giovanni Scalici, Dec. 11,
2015

Schlinger:

Letter from Charles M. Schlinger, Dec.
15, 2015

Schroeder M.:

Letter from Michael A. Schroeder, Jan. 8,
2016

Schroeder R. First:

Letter from Roy Schroeder, Dec. 11,
2015

Schroeder R. Second:

Letter from Roy Schroeder, Dec. 13,
2015

Schroeder R. Third:

Letter from Roy Schroeder, Dec. 14,
2015

Schwarz:

Letter from Robert Schwarz, Jan. 8, 2016

Schwefel:

Letter from Scott Schwefel, Dec. 11,
2015

Scott:

Letter from Representative David Scott,
Feb. 1, 2016

Seabolt:

Letter from Louie H. Seabolt, Feb. 22,
2016

Seal:

Letter from Matthew Seal, Dec. 11, 2015

Seals:

Letter from Devin F. Seals, Dec. 19,
2015

116

Secrist:

Letter from Kyle Secrist, Dec. 9, 2015

Sethi:

Letter from Rajiv Sethi, Professor of
Economics, Barnard College, Columbia
University, Jan. 3, 2016

Sevcik:

Letter from Karel Sevcik, Dec. 14, 2015

Seward:

Letter from William Seward, Jan. 3, 2016

Shamess:

Letter from Albie Shamess, Dec. 11,
2015

Shapurjee:

Letter from Rohintan Shapurjee, Feb. 2,
2016

Shatto First:

Letter from Suzanne Shatto, Oct. 7, 2015

Shatto Second:

Letter from Suzanne Shatto, Nov. 16,
2015

Shatto Third:

Letter from Suzanne Shatto, Dec. 7, 2015

Shatto Fourth:

Letter from Suzanne Shatto, Jan. 26,
2016

Shaw:

Letter from Robert Shaw, Jan. 21, 2016

Sherman:

Letter from Representative Brad
Sherman, Mar. 7, 2016

Sillcox:

Letter from Robert L. Sillcox, Dec. 14,
2015

Silva:

Letter from Lucas S. Silva, Dec. 14, 2015

Silver:

Letter from David Silver, Feb. 8, 2016

Simonelis:

Letter from Alex Simonelis, Sep. 22,
2015

Sinclair:

Letter from Karen Sinclair, Mar. 15,
2016

Sjoding:

Letter from David W. Sjoding, Mar. 8,
2016

Slosberg:

Letter from Daniel D. Slosberg, Dec. 13,

117

2015
Smith C.:

Letter from Cale Smith, Jan. 23, 2016

Smith G.:

Letter from Gennifer Smith, Feb. 7, 2016

Smith J.:

Letter from James S. Smith, Dec. 10,
2015

Smith N.:

Letter from Nate Smith, Mar. 10, 2016

Southeastern:

Letter from O. Mason Hawkins,
Chairman & CEO, Richard W. Hussey,
Principal & COO, Deborah L. Craddock,
Principal & Head of Trading, Jeffrey D.
Engelberg, Principal & Senior Trader,
and W. Douglas Schrank, Principal &
Senior Trader, Southeastern Asset
Management, Inc., Sep. 30, 2015

Spear:

Letter from Thomas C. Spear, Feb. 2,
2016

Squires:

Letter from Anthony Squires, Dec. 18,
2015

Stanton:

Letter from Carol A. Stanton, Feb. 22,
2016

Stearns:

Letter from Ian Stearns, Dec. 14, 2015

Stehura:

Letter from Tom Stehura, Feb. 2, 2016

Stein J.:

Letter from Jonathan Stein, Dec. 31,
2015

Stein N.:

Letter from Nicholas C. Stein, Jan. 6,
2016

Steinham:

Letter from Jackson Steinham, Dec. 11,
2015

Stephens:

Letter from Barry Stephens, Dec. 10,
2015

Stevenin:

Letter from Cynthia Stevenin, Dec. 10,
2015

118

Stevens E.:

Letter from Eric J. Stevens, Dec. 13,
2015

Stevens J.:

Letter from John Stevens, Dec. 27, 2015

Stevens X.:

Letter from Xavier Stevens, Dec. 9, 2015

Stoesser:

Letter from James C. Stoesser, Dec. 14,
2015

Stork:

Letter from Benjamin M. Stork, Mar. 27,
2016

Street:

Letter from Carol Street, Feb. 10, 2016

Strom:

Letter from Marlys Strom, Dec. 18, 2015

Strongilis:

Letter from Ioannis D. Strongilis, Dec.
12, 2015

Sullivan:

Letter from Brian S. Sullivan, Jan. 3,
2016

Summers:

Letter from Timothy Summers, Dec. 13,
2015

T. Rowe Price:

Letter from Clive Williams, Vice
President and Global Head of Trading,
Andrew M. Brooks, Vice President and
Head of U.S. Equity Trading, and
Christopher P. Hayes, Vice President and
Legal Counsel, T. Rowe Price
Associates, Inc., Dec. 24, 2015

TABB:

Letter from Larry Tabb, CEO, TABB
Group, Nov. 23, 2015

Themis First:

Letter from Sal Arnuk and Joe Saluzzi,
Themis Trading LLC, Nov. 3, 2015

Themis Second:

Letter from Sal Arnuk and Joe Saluzzi,
Themis Trading LLC, Jan. 27, 2016

Themis Third:

Letter from Sal Arnuk and Joe Saluzzi,
Themis Trading LLC, Mar. 10, 2016

Thielmann:

Letter from Todd Thielmann, Dec. 20,
2015

119

Thomas:

Letter from Jon Thomas, Dec. 19, 2015

Thompson:

Letter from Johnna S. Thompson, Dec.
18, 2015

Tidwell:

Letter from Leslie A. Tidwell, Jan. 22,
2016

Tondreau:

Letter from Claire L. Tondreau, Dec. 14,
2015

Trainor:

Letter from Daniel Trainor, Dec. 14,
2015

Trirogoff:

Letter from Ed Trirogoff, Mar. 28, 2016

TRS:

Letter from Britt Harris, Chief
Investment Officer, and Bernie Bozzelli,
Head Trader, The Teacher Retirement
System of Texas, Jan. 13, 2016

Turner:

Letter from Kyle Turner, Dec. 13, 2015

Tyson:

Letter from Jon Tyson, Ph.D., May 11,
2016

Upson:

Letter from James E. Upson, Ph.D.,
Associate Professor of Finance,
University of Texas at El Paso, Jan. 14,
2016

Vaughan:

Letter from James Vaughan, Dec. 10,
2015

Verchere:

Letter from David Verchere, Dec. 10,
2015

Verret:

Letter from J.W. Verret, Assistant
Professor of Law, George Mason
University School of Law, Nov. 20, 2015

Virtu:

Letter from Douglas A. Cifu, Chief
Executive Officer, Virtu Financial, Nov.
6, 2015

Walworth:

Letter from Andrew Walworth, Mar. 11,
2016

120

Warneka:

Letter from Patrick J. Warneka, Dec. 15,
2015

Warren:

Letter from Joseph Warren, Dec. 13,
2015

Watson:

Letter from Lane C. Watson, Dec. 15,
2015

Wayne:

Letter from Anthony Wayne, Dec. 18,
2015

Weldon First:

Letter from Kevin J. Weldon, Dec. 15,
2015

Weldon Second:

Letter from Kevin M. Weldon, Apr. 20,
2016

Wichman:

Letter from Paul K. Wichman, Dec. 17,
2015

Wilcox:

Letter from Richard C. Wilcox, Dec. 13,
2015

Williams:

Letter from Bruce A. Williams, Dec. 10,
2015

Wills:

Letter from Dennis Wills, Dec. 14, 2015

Wolberg:

Letter from Jay Wolberg, Dec. 11, 2015

Wolfe:

Letter from Brian A. Wolfe, Assistant
Professor of Finance, The State
University of New York, University at
Buffalo School of Management, Feb. 12,
2016

Workman:

Letter from Michael R. Workman, Jan.
10, 2016

Wright:

Letter from Fred W. Wright, Dec. 16,
2015

WSIB/OST:

Letter from Marcie Frost, Chair,
Washington State Investment Board and
James L. McIntire, Washington State
Treasurer/Board Member, May 5, 2016

121

Yeoumans:

Letter from Dr. Jerry Yeoumans, Jan. 3,
2016

Young P.:

Letter from Patrick L. Young, Nov. 2,
2015

Young R.:

Letter from Robert Young, Apr. 2, 2016

Zevin Asset Management:

Letter from Robert Zevin, Chairman,
Zevin Asset Management LLC, Jan. 8,
2016

Zoeger:

Letter from Linda Zoeger, Feb. 8, 2016

122

