UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 79126 / October 20, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4557 / October 20, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17638
ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
AND CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS,
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
AND SECTIONS 203(f) AND 203(k) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASEAND-DESIST ORDER

In the Matter of
JOHN LEO VALENTINE,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and
Sections 203(f) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against John
Leo Valentine (“Valentine” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondent consents
to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and Sections 203(f) and 203(k) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a
Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds1 that:
Summary
These proceedings arise out of John Leo Valentine’s failure to provide full and fair
disclosure to his clients about the reasons for an investment recommendation as well as a change in
custodians, both of which resulted in a breach of the fiduciary duties he owed to those clients. First,
Valentine failed to disclose that he had a conflict of interest when he recommended that his clients
sell shares of a managed futures fund named Bridgeton Global Directional Fund, LP (“Bridgeton”),
for which he had lost the ability to earn commissions, and buy shares of another fund that he created
named Valt LP (“Valt”), for which he would be compensated. Second, Valentine misrepresented to
clients the reasons why his investment adviser firm changed custodians. While the prior custodian
terminated the relationship between it and Valentine’s firm due in part to concerns about a prior
Commission administrative proceeding against Valentine and that firm, Valentine claimed that he
had terminated the relationship with the custodian after conducting a year-long independent review
and concluding that the move would benefit clients. In both cases, Valentine failed to disclose
important facts to his clients so they could make their own informed decisions, including about
whether to sell Bridgeton, invest in Valt, or remain Valentine’s clients after the prior custodian
terminated its relationship with Valentine’s firm.
Respondent
1.
John Leo Valentine, age 55, is the president and owner of Valentine Capital Asset
Management, Inc. (“VCAM”), formerly a Commission-registered investment adviser, and has been
since the firm’s inception. Up until VCAM ceased operations in May 2016, Valentine had ultimate
authority over all firm investment decisions and the recommendations provided to VCAM’s
clients. From May 1986 to November 2011, Valentine was also a registered representative
associated with several registered broker-dealers. On September 29, 2010, the Commission
instituted settled administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings against Valentine in which it
found that Valentine violated Section 206(2) of the Advisers Act by failing to disclose a financial
conflict of interest in connection with his recommendation that clients exchange one series of a
managed futures fund for another series of the same fund. See In re Valentine Capital Asset
Management, Inc., Investment Advisers Act Rel. No. 3090 (Sept. 29, 2010) (“2010 Order”).
Other Relevant Entity
2.
Valentine Capital Asset Management, Inc., a California corporation located in
Danville, California, was an investment adviser registered with the Commission from August 2006
until May 2016. In its last Form ADV, which was filed in April 2015, VCAM disclosed that it had
1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.
2

approximately $367 million in assets under management and 300 advisory clients. On May 10,
2016, VCAM withdrew its registration as an investment adviser with the SEC and, since that date,
has ceased all operations. Additionally, on May 25, 2016, VCAM filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy
in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of California. See In re Valentine
Capital Asset Management, Inc., Case No. 16-41446 (N.D. Cal. Bankr.). The Commission
previously instituted settled administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings against VCAM on
September 29, 2010, in which the Commission found that VCAM violated Section 206(2) of the
Advisers Act by failing to adequately disclose a financial conflict of interest. See 2010 Order.
Facts
3.
Valentine founded VCAM in 2006, as well as its predecessor firm Valentine
Capital Retirement Planning Group, Inc. in 1993. He made all investment decisions at VCAM,
and had a client base that consisted primarily of retired employees of a large Northern California
oil and gas producer. Valentine recommended a set of investment strategies to clients that
allocated different amounts of those clients’ assets in equities, fixed income securities, alternative
investments, non-correlated assets, and cash, depending on the clients’ risk tolerance. Clients paid
VCAM an annual fee that, according to the firm’s Forms ADV Part 2A filed in 2011 and 2012,
typically ranged from 0.25% to 1.50% of clients’ assets under management at the firm. Those fees
totaled $1,790,616 and $2,522,422 in 2010 and 2011, respectively. Clients also paid commissions
related to investment products that they purchased based on recommendations received from
Valentine.
4.
Valentine was compensated for the investment advice he provided through a salary
paid by VCAM and profits that he took out of the firm as its owner. Additionally, as a registered
representative of various broker-dealers, Valentine received commissions earned in connection
with the purchase of certain securities by his clients.
A.

Valentine Failed to Disclose His Financial Conflict of Interest When
Recommending that Clients Sell Shares of One Fund and Buy Shares in
Another.

5.
From 2007 up into the fourth quarter of 2011, Valentine recommended that clients
purchase and then hold onto their shares of Bridgeton, a managed futures fund that invested in
commodity futures contracts, options on commodities or commodity futures contracts, and forward
contracts spanning multiple commodity sectors. During that period, Valentine received monthly
trailing commissions based on the amount of VCAM client assets invested in Bridgeton. The
commissions were paid by Bridgeton to several different broker-dealers with whom Valentine was
associated over the years, and the broker-dealers then passed 90% of those commissions on to
Valentine. Among other things, Valentine used the commissions to pay the salaries of VCAM
personnel and other VCAM expenses. Between 2010 and 2011, Valentine received approximately
$1 million per year in Bridgeton trailing commissions, which made up a significant percentage of
his and VCAM’s annual income.

3

6.
Bridgeton performed well in 2008. From 2009 through 2011, however, it yielded
poor and inconsistent results. It was down nearly 20% in 2009, had large swings in performance in
2010, and was down 10% over the first six months of 2011. During this period, some clients raised
concerns about Bridgeton’s performance. Valentine, however, continued recommending that his
clients buy or hold shares of Bridgeton from 2009 up into the last quarter of 2011, including by
sending clients a letter signed by Bridgeton management in mid-September 2011 touting planned
improvements to Bridgeton. Few VCAM clients sold their shares of Bridgeton during that period
of time and some clients continued investing new money into Bridgeton. As of mid-April 2011,
VCAM clients had approximately $35 million invested in Bridgeton, which made it the second
largest investment position held by VCAM clients based on dollar amount. Bridgeton continued to
perform poorly during the second half of 2011, yielding losses between August and December.
7.
In late 2010 and throughout 2011, Valentine began forming his own fund, Valt, to
invest in commodity futures, options on commodities, and options on futures. Valentine created
Valt to serve as a new investment option that clients could use to fill the non-correlated asset
portion of their portfolios managed by VCAM. According to Valt’s offering memorandum, Valt
sought to achieve overall diversification by placing its funds with 11 commodity trading advisors
who employed different trading strategies across varying commodity sectors. Valentine was the
president and sole member of Valt’s general partner, and, according to Valt’s governing
documents, had the ability to earn compensation from Valt.
8.
On November 8, 2011, the broker-dealer firm with whom Valentine was associated
at the time, and through which he was receiving all Bridgeton commissions, requested that
Valentine resign as a representative of the firm. Valentine subsequently resigned from the brokerdealer on November 10, 2011, and as a result, lost his ability to continue receiving commissions
from Bridgeton.
9.
Thereafter, Valentine engaged in an effort to recommend that clients sell their
shares of Bridgeton and buy shares of Valt. Although some clients did sell shares of Bridgeton
before November 10, the number of full redemptions requested by VCAM clients increased
significantly in the weeks right after Valentine lost his ability to earn Bridgeton commissions. The
number of clients who liquidated their Bridgeton shares in the first four weeks immediately
following November 10 more than quadrupled the number of redemptions requested in October,
and was nearly 20 times greater than the number of redemptions requested in September. At the
end of April 2011, a two-year high of 356 VCAM clients were invested in Bridgeton. Between
November 10, 2011 and February 2012, nearly 70% of those clients liquidated their Bridgeton
shares.
10.
All told, approximately 36% of VCAM’s clients who sold Bridgeton between
November 10, 2011 and February 2012 bought Valt as a replacement. Others sold Bridgeton but
decided not to invest in Valentine’s new fund.
11.
Valentine knew that he lost his ability to continue earning Bridgeton commissions
after resigning as a representative of his latest broker-dealer firm on November 10, 2011.
Nevertheless, when recommending that clients switch their shares of Bridgeton for shares of Valt
4

after that date, Valentine failed to disclose that he had a financial incentive to make the
recommendation because he could earn money from Valt, but not Bridgeton.
12.
After just a few months of operations, Valt ceased nearly all trading activity when
its primary clearing broker and custodian declared bankruptcy in connection with a fraud
conducted by the clearing broker’s CEO. Valentine did not profit from Valt. He advanced money
for certain Valt accounting, audit, legal, administrative and offering expenses, which, under the
terms of Valt’s offering and governing documents, were expenses that should have been
reimbursed by Valt. The money Valentine advanced to Valt was never reimbursed, and it
exceeded the amount of fees he received from Valt during its existence.
B.

Valentine Misrepresented the Cause and Primary Reason for Changing
Custodians.

13.
From 2007 through the middle of 2011, VCAM utilized the services of a large,
independent financial institution to serve as the custodian of its clients’ assets. The custodian both
held client assets that were under VCAM’s management and also cleared trades that VCAM
personnel made on behalf of clients via the custodian’s trading platform.
14.
After learning about the Commission order instituting administrative and cease-anddesist proceedings against Valentine and VCAM in 2010, the custodian decided to terminate its
relationship with VCAM. Accordingly, in March 2011, the custodian sent Valentine a letter
providing written notice that it was terminating its relationship with VCAM. Additionally, in the
same month, an employee of the custodian discussed the termination decision with Valentine and
identified concerns about the 2010 Order as a reason for the custodian’s termination decision.
15.
As a result, Valentine needed to transfer VCAM’s clients’ assets to another
custodian. Valentine did not, however, inform clients that the prior custodian had severed ties with
VCAM. Instead, in a September 2011 letter to clients, Valentine claimed that it was his and
VCAM’s choice to change custodians based on a purported independent review that began in 2010:
“As part of our Business Planning effort conducted late 2010, we established an initiative to review
our relationships with all vendors, suppliers, and custodial service providers. … As a result of that
initiative, earlier this year we selected and established a formal relationship with three new banks
and two Custodians…. Our decision to move away from [the prior custodian] was not made lightly
or without a complete review and analysis of benefits to both clients and [VCAM].” These
statements were materially misleading. By misrepresenting that he had initiated the change in
custodial firms, Valentine concealed the fact that the prior custodian had actually terminated the
relationship between it and VCAM, and that the custodian had specifically identified concerns about
the 2010 Order as a reason for the termination decision. The fact that a large, well-established
financial institution like the custodian had concerns about the 2010 Order was important
information because Valentine and other VCAM personnel previously minimized the significance
of the order by telling clients that everyone who followed the recommendation underlying the
earlier action made money. In December 2011 and February 2012, Valentine sent two additional
letters to clients continuing to falsely characterize the move from the prior custodian to a new firm

5

as the result of an independent decision made by VCAM after completing a business enhancement
initiative.
16.
In these September 2011, December 2011, and February 2012 letters to clients,
Valentine failed to employ reasonable care to avoid misleading his clients about the change in
custodial firms. Among other things, Valentine and VCAM received written notice from the prior
custodian in March 2011 stating that the custodian was terminating its relationship with VCAM.
Additionally, an employee of the custodian told Valentine that the custodian’s termination decision
was based in part on concerns about the 2010 Order.
Violations
17.
As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent willfully2 violated Section
206(2) of the Advisers Act, which prohibits an investment adviser from engaging “in any
transaction, practice, or course of business which operates as a fraud or deceit upon any client or
prospective client.” A violation of Section 206(2) of the Advisers Act may rest on a finding of
simple negligence. SEC v. Steadman, 967 F.2d 636, 643 n.5 (D.C. Cir. 1992) (citing SEC v.
Capital Gains Research Bureau, Inc., 375 U.S. 180, 195 (1963)). Proof of scienter is not required
to establish a violation of Section 206(2) of the Advisers Act. Id.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act, and Sections 203(f) and
203(k) of the Advisers Act, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Respondent John Leo Valentine cease and desist from committing or causing any
violations and any future violations of Section 206(2) of the Advisers Act.
B.

Respondent John Leo Valentine be, and hereby is:
(1)

2

barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser,
municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally
recognized statistical rating organization with the right to apply for reentry
after two (2) years to the appropriate self-regulatory organization, or if there
is none, to the Commission; and

A willful violation of the securities laws means merely “‘that the person charged with the duty
knows what he is doing.’” Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000) (quoting
Hughes v. SEC, 174 F.2d 969, 977 (D.C. Cir. 1949)). There is no requirement that the actor
“‘also be aware that he is violating one of the Rules or Acts.’” Id. (quoting Gearhart & Otis,
Inc. v. SEC, 348 F.2d 798, 803 (D.C. Cir. 1965)).
6

(2)

barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting
as a promoter, finder, consultant, agent or other person who engages in
activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for purposes of the issuance or
trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the purchase
or sale of any penny stock. Respondent Valentine has the right to apply for
reentry after two (2) years to the appropriate self-regulatory organization, or
if there is none, to the Commission.

C.
Any reapplication for association by Respondent John Leo Valentine will be
subject to the applicable laws and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be
conditioned upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of
the following: (a) any disgorgement ordered against Respondent Valentine, whether or not the
Commission has fully or partially waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award
related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory
organization arbitration award to a customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as
the basis for the Commission order; and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization,
whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order.
D.
Respondent John Leo Valentine shall pay civil money penalties of $140,000.00 to
the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States
Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If timely payment is not made, additional
interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717. Payment shall be made in the following
installments: (i) $60,000.00 within ten (10) days of entry of this Order; (ii) $40,000.00 within six
(6) months of entry of this Order; and (iii) the remaining $40,000.00 within twelve (12) months of
entry of this Order. If any payment is not made by the date the payment is required by this Order,
the entire outstanding balance of civil penalties, plus any additional interest accrued pursuant to 31
U.S.C. § 3717, shall be due and payable immediately, without further application.
Payment must be made in one of the following ways:
(1)

Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which
will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

(2)

Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:
Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
7

Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying John
Leo Valentine as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a
copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Erin E. Schneider, Securities and
Exchange Commission, 44 Montgomery Street, Suite 2800, San Francisco, CA 94104.
E.
Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor
Action, he shall not argue that he is entitled to, nor shall he benefit by, offset or reduction of any
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil
penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a
Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that he shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting
the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount of the
Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall not be deemed
an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty
imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” means a
private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based
on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this
proceeding.
V.
It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. § 523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by
Respondent Valentine, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty
or other amounts due by Valentine under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order,
decree or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the
violation by Valentine of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such
laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. § 523(a)(19).

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

8

