UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78940 / September 26, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17581
In the Matter of
SYED A. HASHIM
Respondent.

ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-ANDDESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASEAND-DESIST ORDER

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that ceaseand-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Syed A. Hashim (“Hashim” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondent consents
to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order
(“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds1 that:
Summary
1.
This matter involves insider trading by Vijay S. Rajan (“Rajan”) and Respondent in
advance of the May 6, 2015 announcement that Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Alexion”) would
submit a tender offer to acquire the outstanding shares of Synageva BioPharma Corp.
(“Synageva”) in a deal valued at $8.4 billion net of cash (the “Transaction”). In April 2015, Rajan
obtained material nonpublic information concerning the Transaction from his then employer,
Alexion. Rajan either knew, or was reckless in not knowing, that this information was conveyed to
him in confidence and that he was neither permitted to trade on it nor to disclose it to anyone who
was not already authorized to receive it. Notwithstanding these restrictions, Rajan traded both
Alexion and Synageva securities before the public announcement of the Transaction, and also
encouraged Respondent to trade Synageva securities. Respondent received information that he
knew or was reckless in not knowing was material and nonpublic, and that he knew or had reason
to know was provided to him in breach of a duty of trust or confidence, yet he nonetheless traded
on the information. Rajan generated ill-gotten gains of $10,032.10 and Respondent generated illgotten gains of $35,747.91. By engaging in this conduct, Rajan and Respondent violated Sections
10(b) and 14(e) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5 and 14e-3 thereunder.
Respondent
2.

Hashim, age 51, is a resident of Alpharetta, Georgia.
Other Relevant Individuals and Entities

3.
Rajan, age 45, is a resident of Bolingbrook, Illinois. At the time of the conduct
described herein, Rajan was an Alexion information technology executive.
4.
Alexion, a Delaware corporation with its principal place of business in Cheshire,
Connecticut, is a pharmaceutical company. Alexion’s common stock is registered with the
Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and is traded on the NASDAQ.
5.
Synageva, at all times relevant to the conduct described herein, was a Delaware
corporation with its principal place of business in Lexington, Massachusetts. Synageva was a
pharmaceutical company whose common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and was traded on the NASDAQ.

1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.

2

Background
6.
On February 18, 2015, Alexion’s Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of its
Board of Directors contacted the Chairman of Synageva’s Board of Directors and communicated
Alexion’s interest in acquiring Synageva for $175 per share. On March 5, 2015, Synageva
informed Alexion it was not interested in pursuing a transaction as outlined in the February 18,
2015 communications.
7.
Alexion continued to pursue the transaction, however, and on March 9, 2015,
Alexion and Synageva entered into a confidentiality agreement. Thereafter, Synageva shared
certain information with Alexion, and Alexion responded by increasing its offer to $195 a share on
March 17, 2015. Synageva rejected this offer on March 18, 2015, and Alexion responded by
increasing its offer to $212 per share on March 24, 2015.
8.
Although Synageva did not find the $212 per share offer sufficiently compelling to
enter into a transaction, Synageva did believe that it warranted furnishing additional information to
Alexion, and on March 26, 2015, Synageva so informed Alexion. As a result, Synageva opened a
virtual data room so that Alexion could review certain confidential information, and also arranged
an in-person meeting between senior Alexion and Synageva management, which took place on
March 30, 2015.
9.
On April 16, 2015, Alexion communicated its interest in acquiring Synageva for
$230 per share, an offer that Synageva ultimately accepted.
10.
During the course of his employment at Alexion, Rajan became aware of
information concerning the Transaction. On Sunday, April 19, 2015, an Alexion employee
informed Rajan by email that Rajan was going to be working on a highly confidential project. The
email advised Rajan of his duty to keep the information confidential, even within Alexion, and to
refrain from trading the securities of either Alexion or an entity with the code name “Saturn,”
which he learned was Synageva, while in possession of the information. Additionally, at the outset
of his employment, Rajan signed a confidentiality agreement where he agreed not to trade in the
securities of any company while he was aware of nonpublic information concerning the possible
acquisition of that company, and he also agreed not to disclose that information to any person
outside Alexion. Rajan either knew or was reckless in not knowing that the information
concerning the Transaction was material and nonpublic.
11.
Rajan’s supervisor, who was copied on the email, called and briefly spoke to Rajan
two minutes after they both received the email on Sunday, April 19, 2015. There was a
confidentiality agreement and trading restriction acknowledgement attached to the email, which
Rajan signed and returned on Monday, the following day.
12.
Eleven minutes after speaking to his supervisor, Rajan called Respondent. During
one or more conversations that day, and in an ensuing series of telephone conversations over the
following two days, circumstantial evidence indicates that Rajan encouraged Respondent to buy
Synageva securities. Respondent knew or was reckless in not knowing that the recommendation to
3

buy Synageva securities was based on material nonpublic information concerning the Transaction
and either knew or had reason to know that it was provided to him in breach of a duty of trust or
confidence.
13.
Respondent placed orders to buy Synageva stock in two different online brokerage
accounts on Sunday, April 19, 2015, after speaking with Rajan, and while knowingly possessing
material nonpublic information. The buy orders were for a cumulative amount of 200 shares with
a purchase price of over $20,000.
14.
On April 20, 2015, Rajan purchased 100 shares of Synageva stock for
approximately $10,000. Rajan also purchased 25 shares of Alexion stock on April 20, 2015 for
approximately $5,000.
15.
On April 21, 2015, Respondent transferred $16,000 into one of his brokerage
accounts and placed an order to purchase an additional 150 Synageva shares, comprising the entire
amount transferred into the account. Following the transfer, he spoke by telephone with a
representative at his brokerage firm and stated: “I want to execute a trade right now and I might be
short of funds so I’m transferring $16,000 from my checking account but it says that this will be
available three days from now but I need it immediately because I wanted to make a trade right
now.”
16.
The Synageva purchase was uncharacteristic for Rajan in that he had no history of
trading Synageva securities.
17.
The Synageva purchase was uncharacteristic for Respondent, who had no history of
trading Synageva securities and accumulated a Synageva position that was more than 300% larger
than any other position recently held in his brokerage account.
18.
Rajan and Respondent were friends and former colleagues, having previously
worked together at a large technology company. They had a meaningfully close relationship and
have a history of providing networking benefits to each other. For instance, Respondent first
introduced Rajan to a contact at Alexion, an introduction that ultimately resulted in Rajan’s
employment at Alexion. Subsequently, after Rajan started working at Alexion, he assisted
Respondent in applying to Alexion, where Respondent was interviewed but ultimately not hired.
Circumstantial evidence indicates Rajan intended to benefit Respondent by providing the
information concerning the Transaction to him.
19.
By purchasing Synageva stock and encouraging another to purchase Synageva
stock, Rajan knowingly or recklessly violated the confidentiality agreement that he received at the
outset of his employment and the confidentiality agreement he received in the April 19, 2015
email.
20.
By purchasing Alexion stock, Rajan knowingly or recklessly violated the
confidentiality agreement that he received at the outset of his employment, the confidentiality
4

agreement he received in the April 19, 2015 email, and a trading blackout issued by Alexion in
connection with its first quarter 2015 earnings announcement.
21.
Before the market opened on May 6, 2015, Alexion and Synageva issued a joint
press release announcing the merger agreement and plan to file a tender offer statement whereby
Alexion would acquire Synageva’s shares for $115 in cash and .6581 Alexion shares for each
Synageva share, implying a total per Synageva share value of $230. Synageva's previous day
closing price, on May 5, 2015, was $95.87, thus the Transaction price represented a 139.9%
premium over the prior day’s closing price. Based on the news, Synageva stock opened at $215.08
on May 6, 2015 and closed at $203.39, a one-day increase of 112.15% based on the closing price.
22.
23.
$35,747.91.

On May 6, 2015, Rajan sold his entire Synageva position for a profit of $10,032.10.
On May 6, 2015, Respondent sold his entire Synageva position for a profit of

24.
As a result of the conduct described above, Rajan and Respondent violated Section
10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct in
connection with the purchase or sale of securities, and Section 14(e) of the Exchange Act and Rule
14e-3 thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct in connection with a tender offer.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions
agreed to in Respondent Hashim’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent Hashim cease and desist
from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 10(b) and 14(e) of
the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5 and 14e-3 thereunder.
B.
Hashim shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement of
$35,747.91, prejudgment interest of $1,147.86, and a civil money penalty in the amount of
$35,747.91 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of the
United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If timely payment of
disgorgement and prejudgment interest is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to
SEC Rule of Practice 600. If timely payment of a civil money penalty is not made, additional
interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717.
Payment must be made in one of the following ways:
(1)

Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which
will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;
5

(2)

Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
Hashim as the Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy
of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Jay A. Scoggins, Division of
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, Denver Regional Office, 1961 Stout Street,
Suite 1700, Denver, CO 80294-1961.
C.
Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor
Action, he shall not argue that he is entitled to, nor shall he benefit by, offset or reduction of any
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil
penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset"). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a
Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that he shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting
the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the
Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall not be deemed
an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty
imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action" means a
private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based
on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this
proceeding.

6

V.
It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by
Respondent, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other
amounts due by Respondent under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree
or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by
Respondent of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set
forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19).

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

7

