UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78287 / July 11, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17337
ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-ANDDESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASEAND-DESIST ORDER

In the Matter of
JOHNSON CONTROLS,
INC.,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that ceaseand-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Johnson Controls, Inc. (“JCI” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over Respondent and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Ceaseand-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making
Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds1 that:
Summary
1.
This matter concerns violations of the books and records and internal controls
provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)] by Johnson
Controls, Inc. through its managers and employees at its wholly-owned Chinese subsidiary
referred to herein as “China Marine.” From 2007 to 2013, the managing director and
approximately eighteen employees of China Marine made payments to sham vendors, some of
which were then used to make improper payments of approximately $4.9 million to employees
of Chinese government owned shipyards, and ship-owners and others, to obtain and retain
business, as well as to personally enrich China Marine employees. The improper vendor
payments were improperly recorded on JCI’s books and records, and JCI failed to devise and
maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances to
detect and prevent such payments.
Respondent
2.
Johnson Controls, Inc., headquartered in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, is, among
other businesses, a global provider of automatic temperature control systems for buildings,
industrial facilities, and ships. JCI operates in 150 countries, has approximately 150,000
employees, and in fiscal year 2015, reported revenue of $37.2 billion. JCI’s shares trade on the
New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “JCI” and are registered with the Commission
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act. In 2005, JCI acquired York International, a
global provider of heating, ventilating, air-conditioning and refrigeration equipment and services,
while York was subject to an FCPA investigation. In October 2007, the Commission brought a
settled civil action against York, pursuant to which York consented to an order enjoining it from
future violations of Sections 30A, 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act,
disgorgement of $8,949,132, pre-judgment interest of $1,083,748, and a civil penalty of
$2,000,000, and the retention of an independent compliance monitor.2 The monitor provided the
Commission and Johnson Controls, as York’s parent, periodic reports that reviewed and
analyzed the effectiveness of the controls within the legacy York operations. The monitorship
ended in 2010.
Relevant Entities
3.
China Marine is part of JCI’s Global Marine business within the company’s
Building Efficiency (“BE”) business, which engages in the design and sale of marine HVAC and
refrigeration systems as well as aftermarket services and sales. China Marine is comprised of
two legal entities: York Refrigeration Marine (China) Ltd. (“YRMC”) and JCI Marine
1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.

2

See SEC v. York International Corporation, 07-cv-01750 (D.D.C.).

2

(Shanghai) Trading Company Ltd. The China Marine entities operate as indirect, wholly-owned
subsidiaries of JCI and are consolidated into JCI’s financials.
Background
4.
The Commission’s 2007 action against York alleged that, from 2004 to 2006,
YRMC, a subsidiary that sold air conditioning and refrigeration equipment to shipbuilders and
shipyards, some of which were owned by the Chinese government, made improper payments to
agents and others, including Chinese government personnel at the shipyards, to obtain business.
The payments were described in YRMC’s books and records as commissions, sales and
marketing expenditures, or gifts and entertainment. YRMC became part of China Marine, a
business within BE.
5.
After acquiring York, JCI devoted additional resources to its compliance program,
including hiring compliance personnel, conducting trainings, and implementing risk-based
procedures and controls. With respect to China Marine, JCI terminated the individuals involved
in the YRMC conduct and hired a new managing director of China Marine to oversee the
business. The managing director, a Chinese national and resident, reported to the Marine
business management in JCI’s Denmark subsidiary, which oversaw the Global Marine business
in multiple countries. Because the misconduct identified in the prior civil action involved the
improper use of agents, JCI limited the use of agents in its China Marine business model and
required that all sales go through its internal sales team based in China. China Marine
employees, however, devised another avenue to continue the payments. JCI conducted multiple
compliance trainings for the China Marine employees, including trainings on the FCPA. JCI
also conducted audits of China Marine, which detected some missing paperwork but failed to
detect that the improper payments continued.
Improper Payment Scheme
6.
Despite the efforts taken by JCI, the bribery and embezzlement schemes at China
Marine continued. From 2007 to 2013, the managing director of China Marine, with the aid of
approximately eighteen China Marine employees in three China Marine offices, continued the
bribery and theft that began under his predecessor by using vendors instead of agents to facilitate
the improper payments. The improper payments were made to employees of government-owned
shipyards as well as ship-owners and unknown persons, and for the personal enrichment of the
China Marine employees.
7.
The scheme was a multi-stepped arrangement that required the complicity of
nearly the entire China Marine office from the managing director, to the sales managers, the
procurement managers and finally to the finance manager. The managing director aided or at
times approved requests for the addition of certain vendors to the vendor master file without
disclosing that certain sales managers had ownership or beneficial interest in the vendors. After
the managing director’s approval, sales managers added bogus costs for parts and services to
sales reports, which inflated the overall cost of the project, and generated purchase orders for the
bogus parts and services. The procurement manager knowingly approved the purchase orders.
The vendors, at the direction of China Marine sales managers, created fake order confirmations
3

for the unnecessary parts and services and submitted invoices for payment. The finance manager
authorized payments even when supporting documentation was missing or erroneous. Once the
sham vendors were paid, the money was returned to China Marine employees’ personal bank
accounts, where it was then used in part for foreign and commercial bribery and personal
enrichment.
8.
The employees knew that JCI limited the use of agents, and thus they used the
vendor scheme to create slush funds. The employees fashioned the improper scheme using
certain vendors specifically because those vendor transactions were considered low risk by JCI
due to the low dollar value of the transactions. Vendors were also considered low risk because
they did not interface with government officials. JCI’s internal controls over these vendor
payments were less rigorous and, as a result, China Marine employees were able to continue
generating money to bribe officials and enrich themselves by using vendors instead of agents.
9.
China Marine operated with very little oversight by JCI’s Denmark office, which
oversaw the Global Marine business. JCI gave the newly hired managing director a lot of
autonomy and put significant reliance on his ability to self-police his business operations.
Because of the Delegation of Authority thresholds in place, and the average low-dollar value of
the transactions in China Marine, few business transactions in China Marine required approval
by managers in the Denmark office that oversaw China Marine. The average vendor payment
was approximately $3,400. The China Marine employees fashioned the vendor scheme to stay
below certain thresholds that would not trigger review by Denmark. Even in the instances where
managers in Denmark did a review, they did not understand some of the highly customized
transactions at China Marine or the projects involving the sham vendors. The managing
director masterminded the scheme to make improper payments to government officials and
others to obtain shipbuilding projects and to enrich him and other China Marine employees.
Further, the managing director instructed China Marine employees to be cautious about their
discussions regarding vendor payments to JCI lawyers, accountants, and auditors, as well as to
avoid or delete documentation about vendor payments.
10.
From 2007 to 2013, JCI obtained a benefit of $11.8 million as a result of over
$4.9 million in improper payments made to or through approximately eleven problematic
vendors for the purpose of foreign and commercial bribery, and embezzlement.
11.
JCI did not learn of the conduct until December 2012, when JCI received the first
of two anonymous hotline reports alleging that certain employees in China Marine were making
payments to sham vendors that did not provide goods or services in order to personally profit
and/or bribe Chinese officials. The reports arrived shortly after China Marine’s managing
director left the company. JCI self-reported the conduct and began an internal investigation.
Failure to Maintain Accurate Books and Records
12.
JCI failed to make and keep books, records, and accounts that accurately and
fairly reflected JCI’s transactions and the disposition of its assets. Numerous vendor payments
were incorrectly recorded as legitimate vendor transactions or design fees when in fact they were
payments for goods never received or payments intended for foreign or commercial bribery or
embezzlement.
4

Failure to Maintain Adequate Internal Accounting Controls
13.
JCI failed to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting
controls. JCI knew that the China Marine subsidiary had a history of FCPA problems and that
the China Marine business was high risk. Despite taking steps to address the monitor’s
recommendation that the company integrate the Marine business more closely into JCI’s
compliance culture, JCI put almost all of its reliance for oversight of China Marine on a newly
hired managing director to self-police his high risk business. On paper, the China Marine
business was formally overseen by JCI Denmark. However, no one in Denmark reviewed
vendor transactions or reviewed sales reports or projects that were below two million dollars in
value or had profit margins above 10%. The average China Marine project was valued between
$3,000 and $100,000 and therefore was rarely, if ever, scrutinized by the Denmark office.
Further, despite conducting some audits of the China Marine business, JCI failed to ensure that
its audit and testing procedures would adequately review payments that were routinely below
their testing threshold.
14.
Denmark managers stated that even if they had performed additional review, they
did not have sufficient knowledge and understanding of China Marine’s projects to recognize
when certain vendor payments were unnecessary, whether goods ordered had actually been
delivered, or whether design fees were necessary given JCI had an in-house design service.
15.
Because the China Marine employees operated so independently, a culture of
impunity existed, and several members of the China Marine staff, including the managing
director, colluded with each other and circumvented and manipulated JCI’s internal and financial
controls for over six years. JCI failed to detect the improper vendor scheme, which did not come
to light until an anonymous report came in after the managing director departed the company.
16.
As a result of the undetected conduct, over $4.9 million in vendor payments were
paid for goods and services that were either never delivered or were purchased at inflated rates,
and JCI obtained $11.8 million in profits on transactions involving the problematic vendor
payments.
Legal Standards and Violations
17.
As a result of the conduct described above, JCI violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the
Exchange Act, which requires issuers to make and keep books, records, and accounts, which, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and disposition of the assets of the
issuer. [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A)].
18.
In addition, as a result of the conduct described above, JCI violated Section
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, which requires issuers to devise and maintain a system of internal
accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that (i) transactions are executed in
accordance with management’s general or specific authorization; (ii) transactions are recorded as
necessary (I) to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such statements, and (II) to maintain
5

accountability for assets; (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management’s
general or specific authorization; and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with
the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any
differences. [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B)].
JCI’s Cooperation and Remedial Actions
19. In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts
promptly undertaken by Respondent and cooperation afforded the Commission staff. JCI selfreported the potential FCPA violations to the SEC staff and DOJ in June 2013, after it retained
outside counsel to conduct an internal investigation and approximately one month after it
received the second anonymous complaint. The company provided thorough, complete, and
timely cooperation throughout the investigation. JCI promptly and routinely provided the staff
with the results of its investigation as it progressed, and provided all supporting documentation
requested. It also provided factual chronologies, hot document binders, and interview
summaries, as well as English translations of numerous documents and emails. JCI made
employees available for interviews. JCI provided “real time” downloads of employee interviews
and made other foreign employees available for interview. When the company caught a Chinese
employee shredding documents, it quickly secured the office to preserve evidence. JCI’s
cooperation assisted the staff’s investigation. JCI’s timely self-report as well as the thorough
productions allowed the staff to initiate and complete its investigation quickly.
20. JCI has undertaken remedial efforts. JCI terminated or separated sixteen
employees implicated in or associated with the illegal scheme and placed all suspect vendors on
a do-not-use/do-not-pay list. The managing director resigned from the company before JCI was
alerted to the wrongdoing. JCI has closed down its China Marine offices and moved all
remaining China Marine employees, none of whom performs a sales or procurement function,
into existing BE offices. In addition, JCI enhanced its integrity testing and internal audits to reevaluate vendor onboarding for all JCI business worldwide. JCI implemented random site audits
to ensure the delivery of goods on purchase orders. The random testing of delivery of goods
would have tested the transactions at issue here and potentially detected the improper payments.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions
agreed to in Respondent JCI’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent cease and desist from
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A)
and13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(b)(2)(A) and 78m(b)(2)(B)].

6

B.
Respondent shall, within fourteen days of the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement
of $11,800,000, prejudgment interest of $1,382,561, and a civil money penalty of $1,180,000 for a
total payment of $14,362,561 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general
fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If timely payment
of disgorgement and prejudgment interest is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to
SEC Rule of Practice 600, and if timely payment of the civil monetary penalty is not made,
additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717. Payment must be made in one of the
following ways:
1)
Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission,
which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;
2)
Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or
3)
Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:
Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
Johnson Controls as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these
proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Tracy L. Price,
Assistant Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street,
NE, Washington, DC 20549-5631.
C.
Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor
Action, it shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor shall it benefit by, offset or reduction of any
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil
penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a
Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that it shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting
the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount of the
Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall not be deemed
an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty
imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” means a
private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based
on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this
proceeding.
7

D.
Respondent acknowledges that the Commission is not imposing a civil penalty in
excess of $1.18 million based upon its cooperation in a Commission investigation and related
enforcement action. If at any time following the entry of the Order, the Division of Enforcement
(“Division”) obtains information indicating that Respondent knowingly provided materially false
or misleading information or materials to the Commission or in a related proceeding, the
Division may, at its sole discretion and with prior notice to the Respondent, petition the
Commission to reopen this matter and seek an order directing that the Respondent pay an
additional civil money penalty. Respondent may contest by way of defense in any resulting
administrative proceeding whether it knowingly provided materially false or misleading
information, but may not: (1) contest the findings in the Order; or (2) assert any defense to
liability or remedy, including, but not limited to any statute of limitations defense.
E.

Respondent undertakes to:
1)
Report to the Commission periodically, at not less than six-month intervals
during a one-year term from the date of the entry of this Order, the status of its
FCPA and anti-corruption related remediation and implementation of compliance
measures. During this one-year period, should the Respondent discover credible
evidence, not already reported to the Commission, that questionable or corrupt
payments or questionable or corrupt transfers of property or interests may have been
offered, promised, paid, or authorized by any Respondent entity or person, or any
entity or person acting on behalf of Respondent, or that related false books and
records have been maintained, Respondent shall promptly report such conduct to the
Commission staff. During this one-year period, Respondent shall (1) submit an
initial report, and (2) conduct and prepare one follow-up review and report, as
described below:
a. Respondent shall submit to the Commission staff a written report
within one-hundred eighty (180) calendar days of the entry of this Order
setting forth a complete description of its remediation efforts to date, its
plans for any future enhancements or improvements to its policies and
procedures for ensuring compliance with the FCPA and other applicable
anti-corruption laws, and the parameters of the subsequent review (the
“Initial Report”). The Initial Report shall be transmitted to Tracy L.
Price, Assistant Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and
Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549.
Respondent may extend the time period for issuance of the Initial Report
with prior written approval of the Commission staff.
b. Respondent shall undertake one follow-up review and submit a
written report relating to Respondent’s remedial efforts to devise and
maintain policies and procedures reasonably designed to detect and
prevent violations of the FCPA and other applicable anti-corruption laws
(the “Final Report”). The Final Report should be completed within one8

hundred (180) calendar days after the completion of the Initial Report.
Respondent may extend the time period for issuance of the Final Report
with prior written approval of the Commission staff.
c. The periodic reviews and reports submitted by Respondent will
likely include proprietary, financial, confidential, and competitive
business information. Public disclosure of the reports could discourage
cooperation, impede pending or potential government investigations or
undermine the objectives of the reporting requirement. For these
reasons, among others, the reports and the contents thereof are intended
to remain and shall remain non-public, except (1) pursuant to court order,
(2) as agreed by the parties in writing, (3) to the extent that the
Commission staff determines in its sole discretion that disclosure would
be in furtherance of the Commission’s discharge of its duties and
responsibilities, or (4) is otherwise required by law.
2)
Certify, in writing, compliance with the undertakings set forth above. The
certification and any supporting material shall be submitted to Tracy L. Price,
Assistant Director, Division of Enforcement, with a copy to the Office of Chief
Counsel of the Enforcement Division, no later than sixty (60) calendar days from the
date of the completion of the undertakings.

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

9

