UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78989 / September 29, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4540 / September 29, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17595
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-ANDDESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AND
SECTIONS 203(e), 203(f) AND 203(k) OF
THE INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF
1940, MAKING FINDINGS, IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASEAND-DESIST ORDER, AND NOTICE OF
HEARING

In the Matter of
OCH-ZIFF CAPITAL
MANAGEMENT GROUP
LLC, OZ MANAGEMENT
LP, DANIEL S. OCH, and
JOEL M. FRANK,
Respondents.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section
21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and Sections 203(e), 203(f) and
203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”), against Och-Ziff Capital
Management Group LLC (“Och-Ziff”), OZ Management LP (“OZ Management”), Daniel S. Och,
and Joel M. Frank (collectively, “Respondents”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents Och-Ziff and OZ
Management each have submitted an Offer of Settlement which the Commission has determined
to accept. Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or
on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondents Och-Ziff and
OZ Management admit the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these
proceedings, and each consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-andDesist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Sections

203(e), 203(f) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing
Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents Och and Frank each
have submitted an Offer of Settlement which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for
the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section VII, Respondents Och
and Frank each consent to the entry of this Order, as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds1 that:
Summary
1.
Beginning in 2007 and continuing through 2011, Och-Ziff, primarily through the
misconduct of two senior employees, entered into a series of transactions and investments in which
Och-Ziff paid bribes through intermediaries, agents and business partners to high ranking
government officials in multiple African countries including Libya, Chad, Niger, and the
Democratic Republic of the Congo (“DRC”). These bribes were paid with the specific knowledge
of a senior Och-Ziff employee who was the head of Och-Ziff Europe (“Och-Ziff Employee A”)
and in certain cases, of an Och-Ziff investment professional working in Och-Ziff’s European office
(“Och-Ziff Employee B”), but other executives at Och-Ziff ignored red flags and corruption risks
and permitted these transactions to proceed. Bribes were paid to corruptly influence foreign
government officials in order to obtain or retain business for Och-Ziff and its business partners.
Och-Ziff invested in countries and industries known for corrupt business dealings, and
purposefully transacted with agents and business partners with high level connections to foreign
government officials who funneled corrupt payments to those officials.
2.
During this period, Och-Ziff entered into the following transactions in which
corrupt payments were made:
a. An investment by the Libyan Investment Authority (“LIA”) of $300 million into
Och-Ziff funds in 2007. To secure the LIA investment, Och-Ziff used an agent to
pay bribes to high ranking Libyan government officials. With the knowledge of the
1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not binding on any other
person or entity in this or any other proceeding.

2

Och-Ziff Employee A, bribes of more than $3 million were paid to Libyan
government officials.
b. An investment of $40 million by Och-Ziff funds into a Libyan property
development project in 2007. Och-Ziff used investor funds to pay a $400,000 “deal
fee” to its agent in Libya as part of its investment. Och-Ziff Employee A knew or
was willfully blind to the high probability that Och-Ziff’s agent would then use
those funds to pay bribes to benefit the property development project.
c. A loan of more than $86 million and funding of more than $10 million from OchZiff investor funds to one of Och-Ziff’s South African partners in African Global
Capital I (“AGC I”), an Africa mining-focused fund, in 2007 and 2008. Of the
funds provided to its business partner in AGC I, with the knowledge or willful
blindness of Och-Ziff Employee A and Och-Ziff Employee B, millions went
towards bribes to foreign government officials, illicit payments to middlemen, the
personal benefit of its business partners, and expenditures unrelated to the
investment. Och-Ziff failed to conduct sufficient due diligence on the use of
investor funds or impose sufficient internal accounting controls to prevent the
misuse of funds by its South African partner.
d. A convertible loan of approximately $124 million from Och-Ziff investor funds
through AGC I to an entity affiliated with an Israeli businessman, to purchase
mining assets in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (“DRC”) in 2008. This
businessman became Och-Ziff’s partner in the DRC. With the knowledge of OchZiff Employee A and Och-Ziff Employee B, a significant portion of the money was
used by Och-Ziff’s partner in the DRC to pay bribes to high-ranking DRC officials
to secure mining assets for Och-Ziff and its partner.
e. A margin loan for $130 million from Och-Ziff investor funds to another entity
controlled by the same DRC partner in 2010 and 2011. Of the total, $84.1 million
was provided to Och-Ziff’s partner in the DRC with no restrictions or oversight by
Och-Ziff. Och-Ziff Employee A and Och-Ziff Employee B knew that Och-Ziff’s
partner would pay bribes to high-ranking DRC government officials, and others
within Och-Ziff knew of allegations of corruption against him and his close
political ties within the DRC. Och-Ziff’s partner then used the funds to pay bribes.
f. A purchase of shares by African Global Capital II (“AGC II”), the second Africafocused fund created by Och-Ziff, in a London-based oil exploration company in
2011. Och-Ziff caused AGC II to purchase the shares from its South African
partner in order to provide him with capital to use for other purposes. From there,
the partner paid more than $1 million to a consultant who then used those funds to
pay bribes to government officials in Guinea. Och-Ziff failed to conduct sufficient
due diligence on the use of investor funds to prevent the payment of bribes. Och3

Ziff Employee B knew or was willfully blind to the high probability that AGC II
funds would be used by this consultant to pay bribes.
3.
In most cases, the above transactions involved the use of managed investor funds
rather than Och-Ziff’s own capital. OZ Management, a registered investment adviser which
managed the various investor funds entrusted to Och-Ziff, authorized the use of funds in
transactions in which bribes were paid to foreign government officials to obtain or retain business
for Och-Ziff and its business partners. Och-Ziff categorized these transactions as investments or
convertible loans despite the fact that two Och-Ziff employees, Och-Ziff Employee A and OchZiff Employee B, knew that investor funds would be used to pay bribes. Investor funds were also
used in self-dealing transactions to benefit Och-Ziff Employee A, Och-Ziff’s business partners, and
Och-Ziff itself.
4.
Och-Ziff Employee A and Och-Ziff Employee B purposefully caused OZ
Management to omit material facts to ensure that corrupt transactions would proceed and to engage
in self-dealing. OZ Management failed to disclose all material facts and conflicts of interest in its
communications with investors in certain AGC II transactions or to adequately control the use of
investor funds. OZ Management made material misrepresentations or omissions and engaged in
self-dealing in the following transactions:
a. A purchase of $20 million in shares in a privately held London-based mining
company by AGC II in 2010. Och-Ziff Employee A knew that $4 million would be
routed by an intermediary to Och-Ziff Employee A’s personal account to offset an
outstanding personal loan from Och-Ziff Employee A to that intermediary. OchZiff Employee A further directed that an additional $4 million be paid in secret
through the intermediary to an AGC business partner without disclosure to AGC II
investors.
b. An investment by AGC II in oil rights in the Republic of the Congo (“CongoBrazzaville”) through an oil exploration and development company which was
majority controlled by Och-Ziff and South African Business Partner(“Company
A”), in 2010. Och-Ziff failed to disclose material facts regarding the origins of this
transaction, the true purpose of payments to its AGC business partner in the
transaction, and the justification for payments to intermediaries.
c. An AGC II purchase of shares in a London-based oil and gas company for $77
million in 2011. Och-Ziff, through Och-Ziff Employee A and Och-Ziff Employee
B, structured the transaction to provide $50 million cash to its AGC business
partner to further his and potentially Och-Ziff’s interests in The Republic of Guinea
(“Guinea”), a country in which this business partner had a high-placed agent in the
entourage of a senior government official. Och-Ziff Employee A and Och-Ziff
Employee B also included within the purchase price an additional $2 million for the
4

partner to repay an outstanding debt to Och-Ziff. Och-Ziff failed to disclose
accurate terms of the transaction or its own self-dealing to AGC II investors.
5.
As a result of the foregoing, Och-Ziff did not accurately and fairly reflect the
disposition of assets involved in these transactions in its books and records, and did not devise and
maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls to prevent these violations. It
inaccurately reflected in its books and records that the expenditures of investor funds were for
legitimate investments and not, in whole or in part, corrupt payments to foreign government
officials. Och-Ziff also failed to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting
controls to prevent these payments. It failed to follow certain of its own internal accounting
controls, failed to conduct adequate due diligence, and failed to implement other appropriate
financial controls to detect or prevent the payment of bribes.
6.
This matter also concerns violations by Daniel S. Och, Chief Executive Officer and
Chairman of the Board of Och-Ziff, and Joel M. Frank, Chief Financial Officer of Och-Ziff. As
Och-Ziff’s Chief Executive Officer, Och had final decision-making authority on all private
investments by Och-Ziff, including the transactions described above. Och personally approved the
expenditure of funds in two transactions with Och-Ziff’s partner in the DRC in which bribes were
paid. Those bribes were then inaccurately recorded as investments or loans on Och-Ziff’s books
and records rather than bribe payments. As Och-Ziff’s Chief Financial Officer, Joel M. Frank was
responsible for maintaining the accuracy of Och-Ziff’s books and records and for devising and
maintaining Och-Ziff’s system of internal accounting controls. Frank approved the expenditure of
Och-Ziff funds in transactions in which bribes or improper payments were made. Both Och and
Frank were aware of the high risk of corruption in transactions with Och-Ziff’s DRC partner in
light of his reputation and connections to high level DRC government officials. Despite these
risks, Och approved and Frank authorized Och-Ziff to enter into each of these transactions. As a
result, although neither Och nor Frank knew that bribes would be paid, Och caused Och-Ziff’s
books and records violations in two DRC transactions, and Frank caused the company’s books and
records and internal controls violations in connection with the two DRC Partner transactions and
the LIA fee payment.
Respondents
7.
Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC, an institutional alternative asset
manager or “hedge fund” incorporated in Delaware with its principal place of business in New
York, New York. Och-Ziff’s common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to Section
12(b) of the Exchange Act and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (ticker: OZM). Och-Ziff
controls numerous consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates through which it operates and provides
investment advisory and management services to Och-Ziff investor funds in return for
management fees and incentive income.
8.
OZ Management LP is registered investment adviser and subsidiary of Och-Ziff
with its place of business in New York, New York. Since 1999, OZ Management has been
5

registered with the Commission as an investment adviser. OZ Management provides asset
management services to Och-Ziff investor funds. The financial results of certain Och-Ziff
subsidiaries, including OZ Management and its subsidiaries and affiliates, are ultimately
consolidated into the financial statements of Och-Ziff.
9.
Daniel S. Och, age 55, resides in Scarsdale, New York. Och is the founder, Chief
Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board of Och-Ziff, as well as an officer and partner in OZ
Management. He is a U.S. citizen.
10.
Joel M. Frank, age 61, resides in New York, New York. Frank is the Chief
Financial Officer for Och-Ziff and OZ Management, and an officer and partner in OZ
Management. He is a U.S. citizen.
Bribery of Libyan Officials
11.
In 2007, Och-Ziff Employee A, the head of Och-Ziff’s European office, began
attempts to obtain clients and investment opportunities in Libya, which had emerged from
international sanctions and was opening to Western investment and business. Libya created a
sovereign wealth fund, the Libyan Investment Authority, to manage the country’s oil and other
assets. To help with Och-Ziff’s efforts in Libya, Och-Ziff Employee A enlisted a London-based
business associate with whom Och-Ziff had previously done business (“Libyan Agent”). Och-Ziff
Employee A knew that Libyan Agent had contacts within the Libyan government at the highest
levels. Och-Ziff Employee A and others at Och-Ziff also knew that Libyan Agent was not a
financial consultant or advisor, but rather a middleman whose primary contribution to transactions
were his connections to foreign government officials and his complicated network of offshore
entities.
A.

Bribery to Secure the LIA Investment in Och-Ziff

12.
In early 2007, Och-Ziff Employee A sought assistance from Libyan Agent to secure
an investment mandate whereby the LIA would invest in Och-Ziff’s managed funds. Libyan
Agent told Och-Ziff Employee A that he needed to receive a fee if his efforts on behalf of Och-Ziff
were successful and resulted in an investment by the LIA. Och-Ziff Employee A agreed to have
Och-Ziff pay the fee, knowing that Libyan Agent would use any fee he received to pay bribes.
13.
Libyan Agent arranged a meeting for Och-Ziff Employee A in Vienna in March
2007 at which he introduced Och-Ziff Employee A to two Libyan government officials, including
one of the sons of Colonel Muammar Gaddafi, Libya’s ruler at the time. This son was the driving
force behind the creation of the LIA. A senior executive with the LIA was also at the meeting.
Och-Ziff Employee A later described this government official as Colonel Gaddafi’s son’s “right
hand man at the lia [sic].” Subsequent due diligence by Och-Ziff noted that this individual “looks
after” the interests of Colonel Gaddafi’s son at the LIA and in a commercial business. Also present
at the meeting was a Tunisian business associate of the two Libyan government officials who was
6

a member of Colonel Gaddafi’s son’s entourage (“Tunisian Agent”). The two Libyan government
officials had significant control over investments made by the LIA. The purpose of this meeting
was to introduce Och-Ziff Employee A to the foreign officials and the Tunisian Agent in order to
facilitate the bribery of those officials in exchange for the LIA investing its money with Och-Ziff.
14.
Och-Ziff Employee A communicated his progress with the LIA and Libyan Agent
to Och. After the meeting in Vienna, Och-Ziff Employee A emailed Och that the “[m]eetings are
amazing. They have 77 billion, half in cash and no idea who to give it to.” Och-Ziff Employee A
further told Och “I haven’t been this excited in a while.” Och later asked Och-Ziff Employee A
about progress with the LIA, to which Och-Ziff Employee A responded: “I thought you were
against it so I havent (sic) pursued it. The agent wants to come in and see me this week. You OK
with that?” Och replied “I will be ok. Will call you.” Throughout 2007, Och and Och-Ziff
Employee A continued to communicate regarding the progress of the LIA investment and the
agent.
15.
Libyan Agent and Och-Ziff Employee A engaged in a scheme with Libyan
government officials to funnel bribe payments from Och-Ziff to those officials in exchange for
their support for the LIA’s investment with Och-Ziff. A third Libyan government official, the head
of Libya’s powerful state security services and Libyan Agent’s longstanding patron in Libya, was
also part of the bribery scheme. Och-Ziff Employee A knew that Libyan Agent was acting on
behalf of these government officials and that Libyan Agent would use the fee from Och-Ziff to
bribe these government officials to help Och-Ziff obtain an investment from the LIA.
16.
The scheme was successful. In or about November 2007, the LIA agreed to invest
$300 million into Och-Ziff funds and those funds were invested on December 1, 2007. At the
same time, Libyan Agent and Och-Ziff Employee A requested from Och-Ziff payment of a fee to
effectuate the secret agreement Libyan Agent and Och-Ziff Employee A had previously discussed.
In early December 2007, Och-Ziff agreed to pay Libyan Agent the fee he had negotiated on behalf
of the government officials with Och-Ziff Employee A. Och-Ziff also agreed to pay the fee to an
offshore special purpose vehicle (“SPV”) identified by Libyan Agent rather than directly to Libyan
Agent himself or his London-based company.
17.
Och-Ziff was aware of risks in dealing both with the LIA and Libyan Agent when it
agreed to pay his fee. Respondent Frank and a senior Och-Ziff attorney were involved in the
decision to pay Libyan Agent for sourcing the LIA investment into Och-Ziff funds, and Frank
reviewed due diligence reports on Libyan Agent. Through this report, Och-Ziff was aware of
Libyan Agent’s connections at the highest levels within the Libyan government, including with the
Gaddafi family. Och-Ziff was also aware through a background due diligence report that Libyan
Agent operated as a “fixer” with opaque business interests run through offshore holding companies
which made his business interests “hard to pin down.” According to the report, this meant that
“there is little documented evidence of [Libyan Agent’s company’s] activities either in the UK or
internationally.” Despite the risks, Och-Ziff paid Libyan Agent via his offshore SPV.
7

18.
Och-Ziff conducted no separate due diligence on the shell company designated to
receive the payment, and entered into contractual obligations with the entity itself rather than
Libyan Agent, thus placing no restrictions on the agent’s conduct. These failings were contrary to
Och-Ziff’s recommended anti-corruption guidelines and internal accounting controls.
19.
Libyan Agent’s role in the transaction was kept secret from LIA officials apart from
those involved in the bribery scheme. Libyan Agent did not attend any of the official meetings
between Och-Ziff and the LIA; he was not copied on email or correspondence with the LIA; and
his role in facilitating the transaction was not discussed with any employees of the LIA who were
not part of the bribery scheme. Frank was involved in the decision to pay Libyan Agent for
sourcing the LIA investment into Och-Ziff funds. Based in part on corruption concerns, OchZiff’s internal compliance rules regarding investor solicitations, and conformity with other U.S.
securities laws that were later determined not to apply, a senior Och-Ziff attorney initially sought
contractual language requiring proof that Libyan Agent had notified the LIA of his role and the fee
he was paid by Och-Ziff. However, Libyan Agent refused to agree to provide such proof, and
Och-Ziff agreed to remove this obligation and instead allowed Libyan Agent’s entity to represent
(without requiring proof) that he had notified the LIA of his involvement and fee.
20.
Och-Ziff Employee A knew that Libyan Agent’s role in helping Och-Ziff could not
be discussed openly with the LIA apart from the officials involved in the bribery scheme. Och-Ziff
Employee A also knew that Libyan Agent would not disclose his role and fee to the LIA regardless
of his contractual obligation to do so. Och-Ziff Employee A and Libyan Agent discussed ways to
avoid disclosing Libyan Agent’s role to the LIA, including requiring Libyan Agent to give notice
to the LIA which he would then fail to deliver. Och-Ziff Employee A knew that Libyan Agent
never informed the LIA of his payment by Och-Ziff.
21.
Och-Ziff did not enter into a written agreement directly with Libyan Agent or place
any restrictions or limitations on Libyan Agent personally. Instead, in January 2008 Och-Ziff
executed two agreements with Libyan Agent’s Guernsey-based SPV, but dated those agreements
as of December 2007. The first, a consultancy agreement, stated that the SPV “has technical and
commercial expertise in Libya as a consultant to companies (in particular in information gathering,
strategic analysis, high level introduction, negotiations, and promotion of projects and
implementation).” This description was misleading in that the SPV itself had no interactions in
Libya and no employees, and Libyan Agent’s involvement was limited to providing an
introduction to the LIA and paying bribes. The consulting agreement was also forward-looking
despite the fact that Libyan Agent had already assisted Och-Ziff since early 2007 in securing the
LIA investment. A separate representation letter agreement with the SPV also confirmed that the
LIA “has been informed in writing of the Agreement and the consideration payable to ourselves
thereunder.” This representation was false, and Libyan Agent did not disclose his role in the OchZiff investment to the LIA apart from those officials involved in the bribe scheme. The second
agreement also contained anti-corruption representations and warranties by the trustee for the SPV
receiving the payment, but no such representations or warranties from Libyan Agent, his partner,
or his London-based entity.
8

22.
In January and October 2008, Och-Ziff transferred a total of $3.75 million to
Libyan Agent’s shell company. Libyan Agent then directed the transfer of approximately $2.5
million from those funds to an account held by Tunisian Agent for the benefit of the two senior
LIA officials, including the son of Colonel Gaddafi. During this period, Libyan Agent also
directed payments of more than $1 million through his network of offshore companies to benefit
his longstanding patron in Libya’s state security services.
23.
Och-Ziff did not obtain a copy of any written notification to the LIA regarding
Libyan Agent, or seek to obtain a copy of such notification at any time. Further, at no point did
Och-Ziff inform the LIA of Libyan Agent’s role in securing the LIA investment. Throughout OchZiff’s interactions with the LIA from 2008 to 2011, at no point did Och-Ziff disclose to the LIA the
Libyan Agent’s role with Och-Ziff, and Libyan Agent was not copied on communications with the
LIA or present at any Och-Ziff meetings with the LIA.
24.
Throughout 2008 and 2009, Och-Ziff Employee A continued to use Libyan Agent
in attempts to solicit additional investments in Libya and from the LIA, touting Libyan Agent’s
high level connections and ability to use this influence in Libya. Och-Ziff Employee A used
Libyan Agent to assist other Och-Ziff portfolio companies in doing business in Libya, including a
transaction in which Libyan Agent also acted as an agent of the Libyan government. In January
2008, Och-Ziff Employee A described Libyan Agent’s Libyan connections to a third-party OchZiff portfolio company as “very close to [the son of Colonel Gaddafi], LIA and other government
officials. We have done three deals with him in Tripoli…He has also been instrumental in
introducing us to LIA as an investor in OZ.” Och-Ziff Employee A specifically noted Libyan
Agent’s ability to “get things done” and “deliver” on a deal in Libya. Och-Ziff Employee A failed
to inform Och-Ziff legal or compliance that Och-Ziff’s agent for the LIA transaction was also
acting as an agent of the Libyan government at the same time.
25.
In its books and records, Och-Ziff recorded the fee paid to Libyan Agent as
“Professional Services – Other.” This designation was inaccurate; the payment was for an
introduction and to pay bribes, and not for professional services.
26.
Based on the foregoing facts, Och-Ziff violated Sections 30A and 13(b)(2)(A) and
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act through its intentional payment of bribes to Libyan government
officials, inaccurate recording of the bribe payments on its books and records, and failure to devise
or maintain internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that its funds
would not be used to pay bribes. Further, by his acts or omissions Frank caused violations of
Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) by Och-Ziff.
B. Bribery Relating to Libyan Property Development Project
27.
In October 2007, Och-Ziff invested in a hotel and office tower project in Libya.
This project was founded and controlled by Libyan Agent, and Och-Ziff began its investment into
the project at the same time it was using Libyan Agent to solicit funds from the LIA. For Och-Ziff
9

Employee A, the development project was “making a bet on Libya here and relationship [with
Libyan Agent].”
28.
Prior to Och-Ziff’s investment, Libyan Agent provided equity stakes in the
company to his Libyan patron and to a daughter of Colonel Gaddafi in exchange for valuable land
leases on key properties on which the developments would be built. Och-Ziff Employee A and
other Och-Ziff investment professionals in London were aware of the involvement of the Gaddafi
family in the development project. In one review of the project Och-Ziff Employee A wrote
“Gathafi Hotels” to describe a subsidiary of the project. Later, while Och-Ziff held a board seat at
the development company, Och-Ziff’s board representative for the development company received
emails that described Colonel Gaddafi’s daughter as “our JV partner” at the development
company.
29.
At Och-Ziff Employee A’s urging, Och-Ziff provided a convertible loan of $40
million to the development company in October 2007. Och-Ziff Employee A also agreed to pay a
$400,000 deal fee to Libyan Agent for sourcing the transaction. Because ongoing bribes were
necessary to operate the project in Libya, a portion of the deal fee paid to Libyan Agent by OchZiff went towards bribes. Och-Ziff Employee A knew that Libyan Agent would use the deal fee to
pay bribes to benefit the development project.
30.
Och-Ziff approved the payment of the $400,000 deal fee in November 2007
without conducting separate due diligence on the offshore SPV receiving the funds or, apart from
Och-Ziff Employee A, understanding the justification for the payment. Further, Och-Ziff did not
enter into a contract with Libyan Agent or the SPV receiving the fee before it was paid. Och-Ziff
therefore paid the deal fee without taking sufficient steps to detect or prevent the payment of bribes
by Libyan Agent using investor funds.
31.
Based on the foregoing facts, Och-Ziff violated Sections 30A and 13(b)(2)(A) and
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act through its intentional payment of a bribe to a Libyan government
official, inaccurate recording of the bribe payment on its books and records, and failure to devise
or maintain internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that its funds
would not be used to pay bribes.
Books and Records, Internal Controls, and Advisers Act Violations in AGC I
32.
Beginning in 2007, Och-Ziff formed the African Global Capital (“AGC”) joint
venture to invest in natural resource assets in Africa. The project was led by Och-Ziff Employee A
and employees in Och-Ziff’s European office. Och-Ziff co-managed the fund and provided
capital, infrastructure (including compliance support), and investment expertise to AGC. Och-Ziff
held its advisory and management interest in AGC through Africa Management Limited (“AML”),
which was registered as an affiliated adviser to OZ Management in March 2008. AML was owned
40% by Och-Ziff and 60% by its joint venture partner. OZ Management held its advisory and
management interest in AML through a wholly-owned and controlled subsidiary, OZ Africa
10

Management GP, LLC (“OZ Africa Management”), but Och-Ziff had joint control over all
investments and operations of AGC and AML. The first fund, AGC I, was funded using existing
Och-Ziff investor funds.
33.
As part of its strategy, Och-Ziff teamed with business partners with high-level
political connections in Africa, who in turn used these connections to source deals for the fund and
navigate political issues in the various countries. In pursuit of business, Och-Ziff did not impose
adequate controls on the use of investor funds by its business partners or conduct due diligence into
the specific uses of investor funds by those partners. As a result, Och-Ziff’s business partners
misused investor funds, enriched themselves, and paid bribes to various government officials.
34.
Och-Ziff chose a prominent figure in South Africa as a potential partner for AGC.
This individual was a former government official as well as a successful businessman through his
South African-based conglomerate. Although Och-Ziff envisioned his conglomerate as a part of
AGC, it never became part of the joint venture. However, the co-founder of his South African
conglomerate became the Chief Executive Officer of AML despite the conglomerate not
contributing assets to the joint venture. An individual with a close connection to the co-founders
of the South African conglomerate (“South African Business Partner”) became Och-Ziff’s partner
in AGC despite having a limited history of mining operations in Africa. South African Business
Partner controlled a private operating entity domiciled outside of South Africa, and he was
designated to source and acquire assets for AGC.
35.
The first step towards the creation of AGC I took place in May 2007 when Och-Ziff
entered into a series of loan agreements with South African Business Partner’s entity. These loans,
totaling more than $86 million, were ostensibly made to acquire mining rights in Africa which
would then be contributed into AGC I upon its formation, to buy out minority shareholders in those
assets, and to then fund mining operations. South African Business Partner used part of the funds
loaned by Och-Ziff to acquire mining rights in Chad and Niger and to invest in an Africa-focused
oil company, Company A. He also used a portion of the funds to pay bribes to facilitate the
acquisitions. In 2008, the assets acquired by South African Business Partner were contributed to
AGC I, and Och-Ziff converted its existing loan into an equity stake in AGC I. Prior to the
inclusion of these assets into AGC I, Och-Ziff conducted due diligence into South African
Business Partner’s ownership of the assets through various SPVs and subsidiaries. However, OchZiff failed to conduct any due diligence or investigation into how South African Business Partner
spent the loan from Och-Ziff funds, how he had acquired the assets contributed to the joint venture,
what minority investors had been bought out, or whether the assets were acquired through bribery
using Och-Ziff investor funds.
36.
Although Och-Ziff imposed representations and warranties on its business partner
and required then to take Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) training, as noted below, OchZiff did not impose sufficient controls on, and did not investigate what those partners were actually
doing with Och-Ziff investor funds despite suspicion that its business partners were engaged in
corrupt transactions and self-dealing. In particular, Och-Ziff Employee A knew or was willfully
11

blind to the high probability that South African Business Partner would use the loan proceeds to
pay bribes to government officials in order to win mining deals. In 2007 prior to Och-Ziff’s loan,
Och-Ziff Employee A learned that South African Business Partner had access to certain deals
through bribes or corrupt schemes. One deal presented to Och-Ziff Employee A in March 2007 by
South African Business Partner would have cost “$20-$25 million (includes $5 million for the
ongoing Presidential campaign…).” Och-Ziff did not participate in this particular deal, but did
enter into multiple agreements with the individuals proposing the bribery scheme through its
ongoing investments with South African Business Partner and Company A over the next four
years. Following the formation of AGC, others at Och-Ziff, including the legal and compliance
groups, learned that South African Business Partner had engaged in potential unlawful activities in
the past. In one regulatory filing in early 2008, Och-Ziff informed a foreign government regulator
that South African Business Partner had engaged in potentially criminal activity in Angola relating
to an asset he sought to sell to AGC I. Also in early 2008, Och-Ziff’s legal and compliance group
stopped a potential AGC I transaction in which the local Zimbabwean partner in a coal transaction
identified by South African Business Partner was reportedly a front for a high-ranking
Zimbabwean government official. Despite this information, Och-Ziff continued to provide funds
to and do business with South African Business Partner through 2011 without sufficient oversight
over his use of investor funds.
37.
Och-Ziff knew that South African Business Partner was using Och-Ziff funds to
purchase mining rights either from foreign governments or unknown third-parties, buy out
minority shareholders in various entities, and pay substantial amounts to “consultants” with no
explanation for the work done to justify these payments. Och-Ziff Employee A acknowledged in
2007 to his AGC partners that “you buy assets and sign contracts without our approval, but thats
[sic] what you guys do best and we let you do it.” Och-Ziff Employee A was willing to allow
South African Business Partner to operate without oversight because he knew or was willfully
blind to the high probability that bribes would be paid to acquire assets. Others at Och-Ziff
recognized the potential FCPA risks in dealing with South African Business Partner and investing
in mining transactions Africa. For example, in 2007, during a meeting to discuss private
investments by Och-Ziff Europe, a presentation regarding AGC noted that “imposing [Och-Ziff’s]
standards of care on [AGC] going forward…has proved a particularly contentious issue with
respect to FCPA rules as an example but is a must.” This presentation further stated that “[o]ne of
the most difficult areas has been finding the right disincentive to our partners for any breach [of
FCPA and Och-Ziff’s standards]. This is key as we are not the ones controlling what happens on
the ground.” Despite understanding the risks, Och-Ziff did not conduct adequate due diligence to
investigate whether AGC I assets were being acquired through bribery.
38.
Of the total amount contributed by Och-Ziff towards the Chad and Niger mining
assets, only a portion went towards mining-related costs. South African Business Partner used a
significant portion of the funds he was provided to pay bribes to proxies for high ranking
government officials in Chad and Niger in order to secure assets for AGC. These bribes were
falsely classified on an AGC I portfolio company’s books as consultant payments, law firm
payments, house rentals, and charitable contributions, among other designations. “Bribe accounts”
12

were created and maintained by employees of a subsidiary of South African Business Partner’s
company in Chad, whereby funds loaned by Och-Ziff supposedly to fund mining operations
actually went towards bribes to ministers and governors, including “house repairs” and medical
assistance for these officials. Och-Ziff failed to audit or review the expenditure of its funds by
South African Business Partner to ensure compliance with Och-Ziff’s internal anti-corruption
policies and financial controls.
39.
Millions of dollars in Och-Ziff investor funds also went to personally enrich South
African Business Partner, the CEO of AML, and the South African businessman who Och-Ziff
touted as an AGC partner. Och-Ziff’s business partners also used funds provided by Och-Ziff to
provide travel to African government officials, including officials from Zimbabwe and South
Africa. Och-Ziff did not take sufficient steps to review South African Business Partner’s
expenditures or prevent this self-dealing by its partners.
40.
The misuse of Och-Ziff investor funds continued after the formation of AGC I. In
2008, Och-Ziff agreed to pay over $10 million based on claims that an African-based aircraft pilot
had purchased uranium rights in Niger and then sold those rights in part to South African Business
Partner. South African Business Partner represented to Och-Ziff that he had paid the pilot for
those rights, though Och-Ziff saw no proof of payments by either the pilot or South African
Business Partner. Nonetheless, Och-Ziff agreed to reimburse South African Business Partner for
his alleged payments. In doing so, Och-Ziff did not conduct a review of the claimed expenses, did
not confirm that the funds had actually been expended by the pilot to acquire the assets or by South
African Business Partner to reimburse him, and did not to investigate whether bribes were paid to
acquire these assets. After approval by Och-Ziff, AGC I transmitted the funds to South African
Business Partner’s entity, not the pilot. South African Business Partner then used these funds to
pay bribes to government officials in Chad and Niger and to enrich himself and his business
partners.
41.
Based on the foregoing facts, Och-Ziff violated Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act through its inaccurate recording of the payments to South African
Business Partner on its books and records, and failure to devise or maintain internal accounting
controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that its funds would not be used to pay bribes
and for other improper purposes. In addition, OZ Management violated Sections 206(1) and
206(2) of the Advisers Act by failing to prevent the use of managed investor funds by its business
partner in corrupt and self-dealing transactions.
Bribery in the Democratic Republic of the Congo
42.
Beginning in 2008, Och-Ziff entered into a partnership an infamous Israeli
businessman with close ties to government officials at the highest level within the DRC (“DRC
Partner”). Although Och-Ziff did not enter into a written partnership agreement with DRC Partner,
Och-Ziff Employee A, Och-Ziff Employee B, and DRC Partner all understood the nature of the
partnership and its purpose. The purpose of the partnership was for Och-Ziff to fund DRC
13

Partner’s multiple mining-related interests in the DRC while he used his government contacts to
acquire assets and navigate the DRC business environment for his and Och-Ziff’s benefit. OchZiff and DRC Partner worked to acquire and consolidate assets in the DRC into an entity
controlled by DRC Partner that could then be sold to a large publicly-traded mining company for a
significant profit. Och-Ziff Employee A and Och-Ziff Employee B, however, understood that
DRC Partner would use the funds Och-Ziff provided to him to pay bribes to government officials
in order to maintain his corrupt relationships, acquire assets with the help of his government
benefactors, acquire assets at a significant discount to the true value of the asset, and gain favor for
his mining interests in the DRC.
A.

Och-Ziff Knew the High Risk Of Bribery In Dealing with DRC Partner

43.
From Och-Ziff’s first contact with DRC Partner in 2006, Och-Ziff Employee A was
aware of allegations that DRC Partner used corruption and bribery in his dealings in the DRC.
Och-Ziff Employee A emailed a third-party in 2006 that DRC Partner “has some skeletons,” and
that he “has some suits outstanding regarding him bribing the drc gov.” Undeterred, Och-Ziff
Employee A went forward with DRC Partner as Och-Ziff’s business partner in the DRC.
44.
In early 2008 Och-Ziff then began discussions with DRC Partner to invest in and
consolidate DRC mining assets. At that time, DRC Partner informed Och-Ziff Employee A and
Och-Ziff Employee B that he paid bribes to maintain his relationships with government officials in
the DRC, and that such bribes were the key to his ability to secure valuable assets. Over the course
of the relationship, Och-Ziff Employee A and Och-Ziff Employee B learned additional information
regarding DRC Partner’s extensive relationships with government officials, secret deal terms with
third-parties, ability to operate with impunity in the DRC, favorable treatment from the
government, and access to deals not available to others. Neither Och-Ziff Employee A nor OchZiff Employee B took steps to cease the relationship. Instead, they continued to champion DRC
Partner within Och-Ziff and consider new business opportunities with DRC Partner over the next
four years.
45.
Others within Och-Ziff, including Och and Frank, were aware of corruption
accusations against DRC Partner, as well as the high corruption risk when doing business in the
DRC. In fact, in his February 14, 2008 email to a due diligence firm requesting a background
report on the DRC Partner, the Och-Ziff attorney making the request noted that the DRC Partner
“will be very easy to find … perhaps the impetus behind the movie ‘Blood Diamonds.’”
46.
A week later, the Och-Ziff attorney received the initial findings of the due diligence
firm, which he forwarded to other senior executives at OZ, including Och-Ziff Employee A, OchZiff Employee B, a senior Och-Ziff attorney, outside counsel, and Frank. The report detailed DRC
Partner’s history of suspicious transactions, allegations of illegal conduct, and close connections at
the highest levels in the DRC government, stating among other things that:

14

a. DRC Partner “is considered one of the most well-connected foreigners in the
DRC… He is known to enjoy an extremely close relationship with [a senior DRC
government official].”
b. DRC Partner was identified on several “compliance Watch Lists” as a “politically
exposed individual as a result of his close ties to the DRC government.”
c. DRC Partner operated through a “complex” network of company structures “spread
across multiple jurisdictions” using “more elaborate structures with trusts and
investment companies acting as the investor on his behalf. The opacity of his
company structures has been highlighted by interested parties as an issue of
concern…”
d. DRC Partner’s business dealings in the DRC began in 2000 when he was awarded a
diamond export monopoly valued at $600 million for which he allegedly paid only
$20 million. This payment was supposedly used to pay debts incurred by the thenpresident of the DRC during the civil war in that nation. It was later alleged that
DRC Partner secured his monopoly “in exchange for providing military training” to
government forces in the DRC.
e. In a lawsuit against DRC Partner, it was alleged that he had bribed DRC
government officials and Angolan military officers in exchange for receiving an
exclusive diamond export license.
f. DRC Partner was “happy” and “willing to use his significant political influence
with [a high-level DRC government official] and his clique to facilitate
acquisitions, settle disputes and frustrate competitors.” In disputes with DRC
mining rivals, DRC Partner was “rumoured to have used his influence with [senior
DRC government official’s] closest aide, and former [DRC provincial] governor in
order to settle the dispute in his favour.”
g. DRC Partner’s involvement in the DRC and other countries has “tarnished his
reputation and has led some Western companies to question whether they should be
involved with him.” Based on his history and reputation “a number of London
based advisors would not act for [a DRC mining company] or associated (sic) with
the listing and many fund managers declined” investment deals “due to [DRC
Partner’s] involvement.”
47.
Based upon the report and other publicly available information, the Och-Ziff
attorney expressed to his supervisors, including a senior Och-Ziff attorney and Frank, strong
concerns about doing business with the DRC Partner and his view that the company should not do
business with him. Both Och and Frank received due diligence on DRC Partner. The corruption
risks identified during due diligence were so significant that Frank and a senior Och-Ziff attorney
15

went to Och to argue that Och-Ziff should not do business with DRC Partner in any transaction.
Frank’s concerns included the reputational and legal risks inherent in dealing with DRC Partner,
including the risk of a government investigation into Och-Ziff’s dealings with DRC Partner should
they come to light. In a meeting in or about February 2008, Och, Frank, and the senior attorney
discussed the risk of corruption that would exist in any relationship with DRC Partner. Och was
told that although it was not illegal to transact with DRC Partner, nonetheless both Frank and the
senior Och-Ziff attorney expressed the view that Och-Ziff should not enter into any transaction
with him because of the significant corruption risk. Och instructed Frank and others to move
forward on potential transactions with DRC Partner unless new information was uncovered.
B.

Suspicious Payments in Zimbabwe

48.
In or about April 2008, for its first transaction with DRC Partner, Och-Ziff invested
in a London stock exchange-listed mining company with operations in the DRC. DRC Partner was
a significant shareholder in this entity, and he stated in an email to Och-Ziff Employee A that he
wanted to have Och-Ziff as his “long-term partner,” and that he had “facilitated Och-Ziff’s
investment at an attractive time/price knowing that you see the bigger picture in all of this. What
the bigger picture looks like, is yet to be determined, but it is your partner who is holding the pen –
I just need flexibility on the drawing board [t]o create full value for our partnership.”
49.
According to the mining company’s placement announcement, the offering of new
shares to which Och-Ziff subscribed was intended to fund the company’s ongoing mining efforts in
the DRC. The due diligence report that Och-Ziff received on DRC Partner noted that this mining
company had a “troubled relationship with the DRC government,” that accusations of money
laundering against the company had been made by the DRC minister of mines, and that one major
shareholder in the entity (“Zimbabwe Shareholder”) had been expelled from the DRC. The report
also noted that the company’s mining license was “under review” in the DRC.
50.
Och-Ziff Employee B traveled to Zimbabwe and the DRC in March 2008 and met
Zimbabwe Shareholder prior to the transaction, purportedly to assess the company’s assets and
infrastructure. After this trip, Och-Ziff negotiated a lower share price and then doubled its
investment in this company to a total of $150 million. Och-Ziff thereafter funded approximately
$150 million from its managed investor funds in March 2008 to purchase shares in the mining
company.
51.
Within days of the investment, the mining company publicly announced that it had
acquired an interest in a platinum asset in Zimbabwe. This was inconsistent with Och Ziff’s
understanding that money would be used for existing DRC mining operations. The Zimbabwean
government had recently seized the platinum asset from another mining entity and then resold it to
a holding company affiliated with the Zimbabwe Shareholder and the Zimbabwe state owned
mining company. The Zimbabwe Shareholder then transferred the holding company to the DRCbased mining company in exchange for additional shares in the mining company. The same
announcement also noted that the mining company had agreed to loan $100 million to the holding
16

company following the acquisition. Och-Ziff was aware of subsequent press reports, denied by the
mining company, alleging that the proceeds of that loan were diverted to a political party in
Zimbabwe.
52.
In June 2008, Och-Ziff Employee A forwarded to Och-Ziff Employee B a text
message from the CEO of AML which said that the mining company Och-Ziff had just invested in
had “paid 4 arms into zim[babwe], and rented boat from china. Journo has bank transfers,
aparently [sic].” Neither informed anyone else at Och-Ziff of these accusations, took steps to
determine whether these accusations were true, or limited Och-Ziff’s relationship with DRC
Partner or the mining company.
C.

Corrupt Takeover of DRC Mining Company

53.
Also in April 2008, Och-Ziff caused AGC I to enter into an approximately $124
million convertible loan with a holding company affiliated with DRC Partner. The stated uses of
these funds were threefold: first, to provide DRC Partner with approximately $15 million to
purchase a Congolese entity that had acquired the rights to a valuable mining asset in the DRC (the
longstanding asset of a Canadian mining company) through an ex parte default judgment in the
DRC that resulted in judicial misconduct proceedings; second, to provide DRC Partner with
approximately $100 million to purchase a majority stake in that Canadian mining company in
exchange for resolving its legal issues; and third, to advance an additional $9 million to be used for
future mining operations in the DRC. Och-Ziff Employee A and Och-Ziff Employee B knew that
the true purpose of the transaction, however, was to provide DRC Partner with funds to pay bribes
to facilitate the takeover of the Canadian mining company for the benefit of Och-Ziff and DRC
Partner.
54.
Och-Ziff Employee A structured the transaction as a convertible loan. The
company had received legal advice from outside counsel indicating that less due diligence on the
use of proceeds and counterparties was required in a standard commercial convertible loan versus
an equity investment. However, in March 2008 outside counsel also advised Och-Ziff that any
transaction with DRC Partner would be “high risk,” but:
“[P]rovided [DRC Partner] has no discretion with regard to how to spend the proceeds of
the loan, we see no AML or anti-corruption issue. If he has any discretion, our answer will
be different and we need to discuss further.”
55.
Och-Ziff was also advised to consider a “right of audit” post-transaction,
depending on DRC Partner’s “foreseeable role” should Och-Ziff convert its loan into equity. OchZiff then proceeded with the convertible loan. Och-Ziff obtained representations and warranties
regarding anti-corruption from the holding company receiving the loan but not from DRC Partner,
and did not undertake additional due diligence into DRC Partner or his assets in the DRC.

17

56.
The transaction gave Och-Ziff control over what assets could be bought or sold by
the entity, equity conversion rights into DRC Partner’s entity, a pledged interest in the shares of the
Congolese entity, and a right to future deals with DRC Partner in the DRC. Moreover, the
transaction gave DRC Partner complete discretion over how to use approximately $24 million of
the funds provided by Och-Ziff. Further, Och-Ziff understood this transaction was part of a
broader, ongoing partnership with DRC Partner. Finally, both Och-Ziff Employee A and Och-Ziff
Employee B knew that DRC Partner was going to use a portion of the funds to pay bribes, and
knew that the transaction was structured to accomplish that goal. This knowledge was not shared
with others within Och-Ziff or with outside counsel.
57.
DRC Partner used the first tranche of approximately $15 million provided by OchZiff to bribe Congolese government officials. Och-Ziff provided these funds to DRC Partner
purportedly to purchase the Congolese entity while the legal action involving the Congolese entity
was still in progress in the DRC courts. Och-Ziff, through an AGC I subsidiary created
specifically for this transaction, sent the funds to a client account at DRC Partner’s law firm in
Gibraltar. From there, Och-Ziff had no ability to control or limit DRC Partner’s use of those funds
or even to trace where the funds went. DRC Partner then bribed multiple DRC government
officials, including judges, to secure the legal judgment that gave him the leverage to buy a
controlling interest in the Canadian mining company.
58.
The Canadian mining company voted to approve a private placement to effectuate
the takeover by DRC Partner and Och-Ziff in June 2008. Och-Ziff was involved in the takeover
proceedings in Canada as the financial backer of DRC Partner. Once approved, Och-Ziff sent an
additional approximately $100 million through which DRC Partner acquired a majority stake in the
listed shares in the Canadian mining company.
59.
The third tranche of the transaction involved loaning an additional $9 million to
DRC Partner. Contrary to the original structure of the deal which required DRC Partner to use the
funds on mining expenses, in October 2008 Och-Ziff instead agreed to provide these funds to DRC
Partner to compensate him for previously incurred DRC expenses, thus giving him discretion over
how he spent the funds provided. As a result, Och-Ziff failed to conduct proper due diligence or
limit DRC Partner’s discretion in his use of the funds. Och-Ziff again transferred the money to
DRC Partner’s law firm account in Gibraltar. DRC Partner, in turn, used the money to fund his
ongoing bribe payments in the DRC.
60.
After providing the $9 million to DRC Partner, beginning in November 2008 OchZiff conducted a review of his past expenses to determine whether DRC Partner had actually spent
funds on DRC mining operations. During this review, Och-Ziff Employee B and other AGC
employees learned that records kept by DRC Partner disclosed payments for travel expenses
questionable expenses, and “gratuities” for the benefit of DRC government officials. This
prompted one AGC employee to note in a draft report: “Satisfactory answers could not be
extracted during my discussions … for some of these expenses and it leads one to believe that
these are actually the costs of maintaining ‘political alignment’ and for ‘protocol’ with the
18

authorities in the DRC – in other words with senior Government officials. This issue needs to be
investigated at the highest level directly with [DRC Partner]. This issue should be flagged as
a concern considering AGC’s compliance requirements.” (emphasis in original) Rather than
investigate or report these potential bribe payments, Och-Ziff Employee B caused others to edit the
report to remove the reference to corruption and call for investigation.
61.
Based on the foregoing facts, Och-Ziff violated Sections 30A and 13(b)(2)(A) and
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act through its intentional payment of bribes to DRC government
officials through its 2008 convertible loan transaction with DRC Partner, inaccurate recording of
the bribe payments on its books and records, and failure to implement or maintain appropriate
internal accounting controls to prevent the use of its funds to pay bribes. Further, by his acts or
omissions Och caused violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act by Och-Ziff, and by
his acts or omissions Frank caused violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) by Och-Ziff.
In addition, OZ Management violated Section Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act by
failing to prevent the use of managed investor funds in corrupt transactions by DRC Partner in the
2008 convertible loan transaction.
D.

Bribes To Consolidate and Sell DRC Assets

62.
Och-Ziff’s relationship with DRC Partner continued throughout 2009 and 2010.
During that time, Och-Ziff learned of additional transactions in which DRC Partner acquired
mining assets in the DRC under suspicious circumstances. Och-Ziff considered and ultimately did
not invest capital in these other transactions, but did not sever its relationship with DRC Partner.
During this time, DRC Partner acquired additional assets yet failed to repay the initial loan, which
Och-Ziff extended without negative repercussions on the relationship. Further, Och-Ziff Employee
A and Och-Ziff Employee B continued to work on new transactions and funding ideas with DRC
Partner.
63.
During the course of the relationship, Och-Ziff was aware of DRC Partner’s ability
to influence DRC government officials. Och-Ziff Employee B used DRC Partner to set up
meetings for Och-Ziff and its partners with multiple DRC senior government officials, including a
high level executive with the state owned mining company. Och-Ziff Employee B, Och-Ziff
Employee A, and others frequently discussed DRC Partner’s high-level connections in the DRC,
including his “key guy,” a top advisor to a senior DRC government official, and secret agreements
with other government officials.
64.
In November 2010, DRC Partner asked Och-Ziff Employee A to provide him with
a margin loan as part of his efforts to consolidate his DRC operations. The purpose of the loan was
not made clear to others within Och-Ziff, nor was the intended use of all proceeds specified by
DRC Partner. DRC Partner’s representatives noted that the funds were needed to make
intercompany loans and “fund existing activities” and “acquisitions of other interests” by DRC
Partner. Och-Ziff did not conduct due diligence on the corruption risk or the intended use of
proceeds, but did conduct diligence on the publicly-traded stock that secured the loan. Och-Ziff
19

made this loan from Och-Ziff funds rather than through AGC II. The principal loan amount was
increased in February 2011. All told, Och-Ziff loaned $130 million to DRC Partner in 2010-2011.
65.
Och-Ziff did not follow its internal controls or conduct sufficient due diligence on
the intended use of proceeds by DRC Partner. A portion of the loan went to pay down an
outstanding third-party debt for DRC Partner. Och-Ziff provided the remainder of the loan, more
than $84 million, to DRC Partner with no insight into DRC Partner’s use of proceeds, although
Och-Ziff knew that he would use the money to fund additional acquisitions and ongoing activities
among his network of offshore entities. Och-Ziff again transferred money from its investor funds
to DRC Partner’s law firm client account in Gibraltar, after which Och-Ziff had no insight or
control over how DRC Partner used the funds. DRC Partner used a portion of the funds provided
by Och-Ziff to pay bribes in the DRC.
66.
Och-Ziff Employee A and Och-Ziff Employee B knew that DRC Partner would use
the money provided by Och-Ziff to pay bribes. These bribes were part of his efforts to acquire
additional assets and consolidate his DRC holdings in order to sell those holdings to a third-party
mining company. Och-Ziff Employee A and Och-Ziff Employee B expected this consolidation to
benefit Och-Ziff by receiving repayment and interest on its loans, which was accomplished in
2012. Och-Ziff Employee A, Och-Ziff Employee B, and the CEO of AGC were all involved in
DRC Partner’s efforts to sell his DRC holdings and acquire additional assets. Och-Ziff continued
to seek new deals from DRC Partner during this time, including deals relating to Company A and
AGC I.
67.
In December 2012, the outstanding loans relating to DRC Partner were repaid to
Och-Ziff in full, with interest, as part of a transaction in which DRC Partner sold his DRC mining
entities to a third-party mining company.
68.
Based on the foregoing facts, Och-Ziff violated Sections 30A and 13(b)(2)(A) and
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act through its intentional payment of bribes to DRC government
officials through its 2010 and 2011 transaction with DRC Partner, inaccurate recording of the bribe
payments on its books and records, and failure to devise or maintain internal controls sufficient to
provide reasonable assurances that its funds would not be used to pay bribes. Further, by his acts
or omissions Och caused violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act by Och-Ziff, and
by his acts or omissions Frank caused violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) by OchZiff. OZ Management further violated Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act by failing
to prevent the misuse of managed investor funds in corrupt transactions by its business partner in
the 2010 and 2011 transaction.
Misrepresentations, Self-dealing, and Misuse of Investor Funds in AGC II
69.
The second part of Och-Ziff’s Africa strategy, AGC II, was formed in 2008. While
AGC I was a closed fund to which only Och-Ziff managed investor funds contributed capital, for
AGC II Och-Ziff sought capital from multiple outside investors, and successfully marketed the
20

fund to one existing OZ Management limited partner, a private entity (“the Investor”). In addition,
a separate fund made up of investments by individual Och-Ziff partners (“OZ Partners Fund”)
agreed to fund AGC II in an amount equal to the Investor.
A.

Material Omissions From Company A Transaction

70.
In July2009, Och-Ziff learned that in government-to-government discussions
between high-level government officials from South Africa and Congo-Brazzaville that Company
A, an AGC oil exploration portfolio company, had been given the opportunity to buy a 25% stake
in an oil field off the coast of Congo-Brazzaville. According to Company A’s CEO, this was “an
excellent opportunity afforded to us from the close relationship between [the ruling political party
in South Africa] and [senior Congo-Brazzaville government official] and our prior efforts in Congo
B.”
71.
Och-Ziff was told that Company A had purportedly been designated by a highranking South African government official to participate in this transaction for reasons not fully
described to Och-Ziff. Och-Ziff later learned that a third-party South African entity was to be
given a 25% interest in Company A’s stake in the oil asset. This interest was to be a “free carry”
for the South African-designated entity, meaning Company A would fund the entire purchase of
the oil asset from the current owner (an Italian oil company) and also fund all ongoing costs
associated with the oil asset while the South African-designated entity received a percentage of the
equity at no cost. Company A initially described this partner in various communications as either
“Partner X” or “the government.” After “Partner X” was named, Och-Ziff conducted due
diligence and learned of allegations relating to its South African owners for corruption, arms
dealing, and ties to the ruling South African political party. One of the owners of “Partner X” was
described in a background report as an “associate and benefactor” of a high-ranking South African
government official. Apart from receiving the free equity interest, the South African entity was to
have no overt role in the transaction or in the ongoing oil asset. When the South African entity
refused to provide sufficient explanation as to its role in the transaction, Och-Ziff declined to
participate in the transaction in January 2010.
72.
In February 2010, Och-Ziff Employee A and others at AGC made a new push to
get the transaction approved. This time, the CEO of Company A claimed that South African
Business Partner, who himself had close ties to South African politicians, was given the
opportunity to invest in the oil asset by the government of Congo-Brazzaville to compensate him
after his prior interests in Congo-Brazzaville (which had been funded by Och-Ziff via its 2007
loan) were awarded to another entity. South African Business Partner then purportedly designated
Company A (in which he and AGC I held interests) as his proxy for this opportunity. Under the
new terms, South African Business Partner would also receive $13 million from Company A
(funded by AGC II) as compensation for his prior losses. Another individual with close ties to a
high-ranking government official in Congo-Brazzaville (“CB Intermediary”) would now
participate in the transaction as an additional introducer. CB Intermediary was to be compensated
for his role in arranging the transaction between South African Business Partner and the high21

ranking government official in Congo-Brazzaville. For his efforts, CB Intermediary would receive
a $5 million payment as well as 25% of Company A’s stake in the project at no cost.
73.
Och-Ziff recognized that the change of circumstances surrounding the resurrected
deal constituted a significant corruption risk, but nonetheless began work to complete the deal. As
part of due diligence, the CEO of Company A, South African Business Partner and CB
Intermediary all submitted affidavits in which each confirmed the second origin story and the
involvement of CB Intermediary. Och-Ziff Employee A championed the deal within Och-Ziff.
Others at Och-Ziff, including Frank and members of the legal and compliance team, continued to
have reservations with the transaction and the truthfulness of the parties. This led to a conference
call where one Och-Ziff attorney called from his vacation in Italy in an effort to stop the deal from
going forward. However, at Och-Ziff Employee A’s urging, Och-Ziff agreed to the investment.
74.
Because the transaction involved payments to a related party for AGC II, South
African Business Partner, Och-Ziff needed to obtain the consent of the Investor in order to
proceed. Och-Ziff described the second origin story for the transaction and outlined the stated
reasons for payments to South African Business Partner and CB Intermediary. The disclosure
stated that lawyers had reviewed the relevant facts and documents and had provided an opinion as
to the compliance of the deal with applicable laws and regulations. Yet Och-Ziff did not inform
the Investor of all of the material circumstances surrounding the transaction or how the transaction
came to Company A. Och-Ziff failed to disclose any facts regarding the initial sourcing of the
transaction or the initial presence of a different proposed partner in the deal. Och-Ziff also failed to
inform the Investor that, under the original transaction terms, there were no payments to any
intermediaries, including South African Business Partner. Further, Och-Ziff failed to inform the
Investor that neither South African Business Partner nor CB Intermediary had a role in sourcing
the transaction when it was initially presented. The omitted information was material to the
corruption risk and the validity of paying $18 million to two intermediaries in the transaction.
Och-Ziff also informed the Investor that steps would be taken by Company A to ensure that the
funds were used appropriately, including paying the intermediaries into segregated accounts, and
restricting and monitoring future transfers by both intermediaries in order to prevent corruption.
However, Och-Ziff did not ensure such controls were instituted or followed by Company A, and
subsequent inquiries by Och-Ziff were insufficient to ensure such steps were in fact followed. The
Investor consented to the transaction based on this limited, misleading information.
75.
Company A, using funds provided by Och-Ziff through AGC II, did not pay South
African Business Partner via a segregated account. AGC II funds provided to Company A were in
turn transferred to a non-segregated account controlled by South African Business Partner. Within
weeks, South African Business Partner transferred a significant portion of the $13 million he
received from Company A to CB Intermediary’s account in Lebanon.
76.
Based on the foregoing, OZ Management violated Section 206(4) and Rule 206(4)8 of the Advisers Act by omitting material information regarding the above transaction from its
disclosures to the Investor.
22

B.

Transaction to Fund Corrupt Business Efforts in Guinea

77.
In April 2011, Och-Ziff, via AGC II, purchased shares in another London-based oil
and gas company in which AGC I, South African Business Partner, the South African
conglomerate, and other Och-Ziff funds already held significant shares. Och-Ziff Employee A and
Och-Ziff Employee B structured the transaction to provide South African Business Partner with
$52 million in cash to use for undisclosed purposes, including self-dealing to benefit Och-Ziff.
Transaction documents created by Och-Ziff Employee B were intentionally misleading so that the
transaction would be approved by Och-Ziff and the Investor.
78.
In 2010, Och-Ziff Employee B became aware that South African Business Partner
had high-level contacts with a senior government official in the Guinea and his family, and that
such contacts provided access to potential mining deals in that country. Communications
involving Och-Ziff Employee B and others at AGC with a consultant in July 2010 noted that “the
[senior Guinean government official] has instructed [mining company] to deal only with me as a
first proposal, exclusivity… iF YOU ARE INTERESTED AND ABLE TO FULLFILL [sic] their
request i can organize ASAP a meeting for you with the representative and the [senior Guinean
government official’s] son in Paris this week…” Another email in August 2010 with the
consultant stated that he had “access to Guinee Mining and Ennergy [sic] classified information”
through his contact with the this Guinean government official and his family. The consultant, who
worked directly with South African Business Partner, also let AGC and Och-Ziff Employee B
know that he was traveling to the United States with this senior Guinean government official to
demonstrate his influence.
79.
Beginning in February 2011, South African Business Partner sought assistance
from Och-Ziff, and in particular Och-Ziff Employee B, to create a means for South African
Business Partner and potentially AGC II to benefit financially from future Guinean government
actions.
80.
Och-Ziff Employee A and Och-Ziff Employee B, along with the CEO of AML and
South African Business Partner, conceived of a related-party transaction that would accomplish
these goals. They decided to sell shares in the oil and gas company from the South African
conglomerate to AGC II so that South African Business Partner could use the capital from the
transaction to fund their efforts in Guinea. The initial effort stalled, however, because South
African legal restrictions on the sale of shares precluded the involvement of South African
Business Partner. As Och-Ziff Employee B told Och-Ziff Employee A, there was “no point for
them” if South African Business Partner’s company didn’t end up with cash from the transaction to
invest in Guinea. Ultimately a new scheme was devised that would leave South African Business
Partner with $52 million from AGC II’s purchase of shares in this mining company. According to
the deal documents, South African Business Partner was to buy 31.5 million shares in the oil and
gas company from the South African conglomerate for $77 million and then immediately resell
18.5 million of those shares to AGC II for $77 million. Based on the false information provided by
23

Och Ziff Employee A and Och-Ziff Employee B, this transaction was then approved by Och-Ziff
and the Investor.
81.
Contrary to the deal documents and the understanding of the Investor, Och-Ziff
Employee A and Och-Ziff Employee B knew that South African Business Partner would not pay
the full $77 million to the South African conglomerate. South African Business Partner bought
31.5 million shares in this mining company for only $25 million, and then immediately resold 18.5
million shares in that same company to AGC II for $77 million, providing South African Business
Partner with $52 million and an additional 13 million shares in the company. With the $52
million, South African Business Partner then paid $2.1 million to Och-Ziff to satisfy an
outstanding debt relating to AGC I (in which the Investor had no interest), $25 million to the
government of Guinea to try to secure access to valuable mining investments there, $1 million to
the agent affiliated with the a high level Guinean government official and his family, and the
remainder to personally benefit himself and his business partners.
82.
Och-Ziff Employee A and Och-Ziff Employee B knew the true terms of the
transaction and the use of funds by South African Business Partner. Prior to the share purchase,
the CEO of AML wrote to Och-Ziff Employee B: “How can we get agc to put 50m into guinea?”
Och-Ziff Employee B then began working on the share purchase by AGC II, understanding the
need to create $50 million in “profit” to help South African Business Partner “invest” in Guinea.
Och-Ziff Employee B understood the need to generate surplus revenue from the transaction, and
wrote: “I don’t know what you guys are thinking re [company share] price being close. There has
to be at least GBP 1/share difference to leave [South African Business Partner] with $50m for
Guinea.” Och-Ziff Employee A and Och-Ziff Employee B also knew that undisclosed terms
existed from the originating transaction. South African Business Partner described the undisclosed
terms of the deal to Och-Ziff Employee B who shared them with Och-Ziff Employee A. The
undisclosed terms included additional “cash local out of [South African] registered co,” and
undisclosed cash to repay “bank debt” to the AGC CEO’s company, the South African
conglomerate, in addition to money to purchase the shares. Further, Och-Ziff Employee B and
Och-Ziff Employee A structured the transaction to allow South African Business Partner to “keep
$3m for AGC I” in order to allow South African Business Partner to repay a debt to Och-Ziff.
When told of Och-Ziff Employee B’s idea, Och-Ziff Employee A said “U (sic) tell them that” and
Och-Ziff Employee B responded “I will.” Och-Ziff Employee B then confirmed with South
African Business Partner that the deal was arranged, to which he replied: “Yip. Pay the 77m, and
we pay 2m withim [sic] 24hr. It a technicality.”
83.
Och-Ziff Employee A and Och-Ziff Employee B knew that the description of the
transaction that was given to the Investor was materially misleading. The Investor was not told
that South African Business Partner would be provided with $52 million from the transaction. The
Investor likewise was not informed of the undisclosed terms of the transaction, or the link between
the transaction and South African Business Partner’s payment of $25 million to the government of
Guinea. The Investor was not informed of the related-party nature of the transaction, the changing
terms of the transaction, or lack of arms-length negotiations for AGC II and its business partners.
24

The Investor was further not told that the initial transaction in which South African Business
Partner would buy the shares to sell to AGC had not yet occurred, but would in fact be funded by
AGC II. Instead, Och-Ziff Employee A and Och-Ziff Employee B explained the price differential
in the initial transaction between South African Business Partner and the South African
conglomerate to the Investor falsely by claiming that the initial sale was initiated in 2009 and had
been “recently completed.” The Investor likewise was not told of the self-dealing aspect of the
transaction, which Och-Ziff Employee A and Och-Ziff Employee B designed to benefit Och-Ziff.
84.
Och-Ziff failed to conduct appropriate due diligence or impose adequate restrictions
to prevent the secret aspects of the transaction from occurring, including the payment of $1 million
to South African Business Partner’s Agent, and its employees Och-Ziff Employee A and Och-Ziff
Employee B provided the Investor with false and misleading information.
85.
Based on the foregoing, Och-Ziff violated Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of
the Exchange Act through the inaccurate recording of the payment to South African Business
Partner on its books and records, and failure to devise or maintain internal accounting controls
sufficient to provide reasonable assurances to prevent the improper use of its funds. In addition,
OZ Management violated Sections 206(1), 206(2), 206(4) and Rule 206(4)-8 of the Advisers Act
by engaging in self-dealing and the improper use of managed investor funds, and by omitting
material information regarding the above transaction from its disclosures to the Investor.
C.

Self-Dealing by Och-Ziff Employee A and South African Business Partner

86.
Och-Ziff Employee A made an $18 million personal loan to Libyan Agent in 2008
in order to fund the Libyan Agent’s construction of a “super yacht.” Och-Ziff Employee A did not
disclose the loan to others at Och-Ziff, and took security interests over several assets held by
Libyan Agent to secure the loan. By 2010, Libyan Agent was unable to repay the loan. In order to
get Libyan Agent funds to repay him, Och-Ziff Employee A arranged for AGC II to purchase
shares in a London-based mining holding company from Libyan Agent. South African Business
Partner was also a shareholder in this entity, as was another individual with whom Och-Ziff
Employee A also had an outstanding £1 million loan arrangement.
87.
In December 2010, Och-Ziff Employee A caused AGC II to purchase
approximately $20 million in shares in this London-based holding company, which owned two
mining assets in Africa. Och-Ziff falsely disclosed the sellers in the transaction as Libyan Agent
and the other individual (who repaid his £1 million loan to Och-Ziff Employee A in the days
before the transaction was finalized). Och-Ziff Employee A and Och-Ziff Employee B knew that
South African Business Partner was an undisclosed seller of shares through Libyan Agent but kept
this information from Investor and others at Och-Ziff.
88.
Och-Ziff Employee A knew that the funds paid by AGC II to Libyan Agent would
be used to satisfy his outstanding loan, and Och-Ziff Employee A arranged the transaction to
effectuate that purpose. Och-Ziff Employee A had to approve the sale of shares in the London25

based holding company by Libyan Agent because he held security over those shares through his
personal loan; he did so in November 2010 to effectuate the AGC II purchase. Communications
between Libyan Agent and Och-Ziff Employee A also confirmed that Och-Ziff Employee A would
receive a $4 million partial repayment on his outstanding loan soon after the AGC II purchase was
completed. Och-Ziff Employee A then received confirmation that the $4 million had been
transferred to his personal account one day after AGC II funds were transferred to Libyan Agent.
He did not disclose this information to others at Och-Ziff.
89.
Och-Ziff Employee A also took steps to hide the sale of South African Business
Partner’s shares in the entity because he understood that the Investor could reject the deal due to
the conflict of interest. Two weeks before the transaction closed, Och-Ziff Employee B informed
Och-Ziff Employee A that “[South African Business Partner] won’t back away from [transaction],
wants deal as agreed.” Och-Ziff Employee A and Och-Ziff Employee B then worked to ensure
that South African Business Partner was able to sell his shares in secret using Libyan Agent as his
proxy. An associate for South African Business Partner texted Och-Ziff Employee B regarding the
secret terms of the deal (“Each party must shed 20perc for us to come in. Does not reflect in
current [legal] agreement. This include [other parties]. Was agreed. Cheers.”), and Och-Ziff
Employee B was aware of the agreement between Libyan Agent and South African Business
Partner (“Our agreement on our side with party x is ready,” “must I do anything on my side re
[disclosed sellers] to get … agreements signed and finalized. Sorry for push but… I want our thing
with [Libyan Agent] done before everyone here leaves. Thx. Let me know.”).
90.
The Investor was not told of the self-dealing and personal interests of Och-Ziff
Employee A and South African Business Partner in the transaction and, as a result, gave its
approval without the benefit of that material information. Och-Ziff Employee B assisted Och-Ziff
Employee A in finalizing the transaction, and was also aware of the self-dealing involving South
African Business Partner. Neither Och-Ziff Employee A nor Och-Ziff employee B disclosed this
material information to the Investor or to others at Och-Ziff.
91.
AGC II transferred more than $9 million to Libyan Agent’s account in late 2010 in
consideration for the shares. Libyan Agent then transferred $4 million to Och-Ziff Employee A’s
personal account in partial repayment of the loan, and another $4 million to accounts for the
benefit of South African Business Partner.
92.
In 2012, Och-Ziff Employee A and Libyan Agent created a false document
regarding this transaction in order to hinder the investigation into Och-Ziff Employee A’s selfdealing. That letter was backdated to October 2010, prior to this transaction, and purportedly came
from Libyan Agent. The letter stated in part: “I would like to confirm that should a transaction be
executed between us, none of the sales proceeds will be applied towards any repayment of the
outstanding loan that you provided to us.” The letter was a lie, and the funds paid to Och-Ziff
Employee A in December 2010 came directly from the proceeds of the AGC II purchase of shares
from Libyan Agent.
26

93.
Based on the foregoing, OZ Management violated Sections 206(1) and 206(2)
based on the self-dealing of Och-Ziff Employee A which was not disclosed to the Investor.
Och-Ziff Did Not Follow Its Recommended Anti-Corruption Policies
94.
In 2007, with the assistance of outside counsel, Och-Ziff began work on an anticorruption policy and procedures which was finalized in April 2008. This policy and procedures,
which applied to OZ, OZM, OZ Europe, AML, AGC, and all of OZ’s affiliates, required rigorous
due diligence and anti-corruption measures designed to provide reasonable assurances that
transactions: (i) were executed in accordance with management’s general or specific authorization;
and (ii) were recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such statements, and to
maintain accountability for assets.
95.
For high risk transactions like those described above, Och-Ziff’s policy
recommended due diligence steps including:
a. Obtaining copies of the most recent financial statements for its business partners;
b. Identifying all shareholders owning or controlling each business partner, and the
nature of that control;
c. Requesting references from financial institutions that have existing business
relationships with business partners and clients;
d. Making all payments in the country in which an agent resides;
e. Accessing business partner books and records and utilizing a right-to-audit on a
periodic basis;
f. Re-checking and confirming due diligence for business partners on an ongoing
basis;
g. Reviewing of all monies paid out by business partners as part of ongoing due
diligence;
h. Conducting heightened due diligence in business transactions involving
government officials or state-owned businesses, where the business partner’s only
contribution is influence, or where the partner refuses to put agreements or proof of
expenditures in writing; and
i. Obtaining annual certifications by the chief financial officer and chief legal officer
that all foreign business partners have complied with the firm’s anti-corruption
policies and procedures.
27

96.
Och-Ziff failed to follow its own recommended due diligence steps in connection
with the transactions set forth above.
97.
Despite the presence of corruption risks in the above transactions, Och-Ziff did not
impose sufficient procedures or measures to prevent corruption or provide reasonable assurance
that the transaction documents accurately reflected the third party’s use of funds. Och-Ziff did not
conduct sufficiently heightened due diligence in transactions involving state-owned entities, and
failed to limit the interactions of its business partners with government officials. Och-Ziff knew of
the close connections between its business partners, counterparties, agents and government
officials. In fact, it chose them in part for their ability to influence to high-ranking government
officials. Rather than limit such connections, Och-Ziff’s insufficient controls allowed its business
partners and agents to exploit those relationships through bribery to benefit Och-Ziff. Och-Ziff
Employee A knew that Och-Ziff’s business partners in Africa bought assets and made payments
without oversight or control from Och-Ziff, and allowed such practices to continue despite the high
risk of corruption.
98.
Och-Ziff failed to conduct sufficient due diligence on asset purchases by its
business partners. When due diligence on agents and business partners disclosed significant red
flags, the company proceeded with the relationship without imposing sufficient limitations on the
way the agents and business partners conducted business or used funds provided by Och-Ziff.
Och-Ziff allowed its agents to use shell companies located in other jurisdictions to receive
payment, failed to place restrictions on the agents themselves rather than their shell companies,
transmitted payments through third-parties after which Och-Ziff had no oversight on the funds, and
failed to monitor or audit how its agents used the Och-Ziff investor funds they were provided.
99.
Och-Ziff entered into agreements with consultants and agents without conducting
sufficient due diligence on the recipient of the funds or the role played by those agents and
consultants. In some cases, Och-Ziff knew that AGC or its business partners in AGC were using
consultants paid with Och-Ziff funds, yet took no steps to either conduct due diligence on those
consultants or ascertain the basis for payments to those consultants. This led to bribes to
government officials in Libya, Chad, and Niger.
100. Och-Ziff failed to implement sufficient safeguards to prevent corruption in ongoing
joint ventures and investments. Och-Ziff was aware of significant corruption risks in its AGC joint
venture, including a high risk of corruption with its partners in AGC. Och-Ziff failed to adequately
address those risks and continued to give investor funds to AGC without appropriate oversight.
Och-Ziff also continued to rely on its business partners in AGC despite knowledge of alleged
criminal activity by those partners in other transactions. At no time did Och-Ziff audit the bank
records, expenditures, or financial statements of its business partners or of AGC to ensure
compliance with Och-Ziff’s internal controls and anti-corruption policies.
101. Och-Ziff failed to use its leverage to terminate transactions, foreclose on collateral,
or bring legal action against its business partners. At no time did Och-Ziff exert its legal rights
28

against its business partners. Instead, Och-Ziff allowed these corrupt relationships to continue in
an effort to secure a return on investment rather than sever ties with illegal activity.
Och-Ziff Violated the Books and Records and Internal Controls Provisions of the FCPA
102. Och-Ziff was required to make and keep books, records, and accounts, which, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
issuer. Och-Ziff’s policies and procedures required it to accurately document the purpose and
authorization for expenditures of assets by the underlying managed funds. Och-Ziff inaccurately
recorded the authorizations for the funds disbursed for these improper transactions as investments,
loans, “deal fees,” “subscription amounts,” payments to business partners, payments to agents, or
“professional services fees,” including portions of the funds that were used to pay bribes and other
improper payments. The manner in which these authorizations were recorded on Och-Ziff’s books
and records did not accurately describe the disposition of these assets.
103. Och-Ziff likewise failed to establish or maintain a system of internal accounting
controls sufficient to ensure that certain of these transactions were properly recorded. Och-Ziff
failed to devise or maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide
reasonable assurances that certain of these transactions were properly recorded. Och-Ziff failed to
implement and maintain sufficient internal accounting controls to provide reasonable assurances
that investor funds were not used to pay bribes, or to prevent self-dealing and misuse of investor
funds by its business partners. Och-Ziff also failed to take corrective measures, obtain verification
of payments, or seek to exercise contractually available audit or cancellation rights with its
business partners, despite knowledge of improper payments and the high risk of corruption. OchZiff’s internal accounting controls failed to stop ongoing payments and transactions even after
improprieties and potential corruption were discovered by Och-Ziff.
Failures by Och and Frank
104. Och had final authority to approve all private investments by Och-Ziff, including all
transactions described above. Och was aware of the risk of corruption in the transactions with
DRC Partner, and contrary to the recommendation of his legal and compliance team, he approved
the use of Och-Ziff investor funds in those transactions. As a consequence, Och caused Och-Ziff’s
violations of the books and records provision of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”).
105. Frank had ultimate responsibility for maintaining Och-Ziff’s and OZ
Management’s books and records and for authorizing all uses of Och-Ziff funds. Under Och-Ziff’s
structure at the time, the head of legal and compliance reported to Frank as chief financial officer.
Frank was responsible for ensuring that all transactions were recorded accurately and in
accordance with generally acceptable accounting procedures and was likewise responsible for
devising and maintaining Och-Ziff’s internal accounting controls. Frank was also ultimately
responsible for devising and maintaining Och-Ziff’s internal accounting controls sufficient to
provide reasonable assurances that transactions: (i) were executed in accordance with
29

management’s general or specific authorization; and (ii) were recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or
any other criteria applicable to such statements, and to maintain accountability for assets.
106. Each transaction described above required Frank’s authorization of the relevant
disbursements. In the two DRC transactions and the LIA fee payment involving bribery, failures
of Och-Ziff’s internal controls, and books and records violations, Frank failed to ensure that
required information regarding transactions was documented accurately, that appropriate business
partner information and due diligence was obtained, that transactions were structured properly to
avoid corruption, and that ongoing due diligence and audits were performed to prevent or detect
improper use of Och-Ziff investor funds. Frank approved Och-Ziff’s payments in the transactions
with DRC Partner in which he believed there was a high risk of corruption. Despite his concerns,
Frank deferred to Och as the final decision maker and executed payment on the 2008 convertible
loan and 2010-2011 margin loan with DRC Partner per Och’s approval. As a consequence, Frank
caused violations of the internal controls and books and records provisions of the FCPA by OchZiff in the three transactions noted above.
Deferred Prosecution Agreement
107. Och-Ziff has entered into a deferred prosecution agreement with the United States
Department of Justice that acknowledges responsibility for criminal conduct relating to certain of
the findings in the Order. Specifically, Och-Ziff acknowledges responsibility for two counts of
conspiracy to commit offenses against the United States in violation of Title 18, United States
Code, Section 371, that is, for (i) violating the anti-bribery provisions of the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act of 1977 (“FCPA”), 15 U.S.C. § 78dd-1, (ii) violating the FCPA’s books and records
provisions, 15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A), (b)(4), (b)(5), and 78ff(a), and (iii) violating the FCPA’s
internal controls provisions, 15U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B), (b)(4), (b)(5) and 78ff(a).
108. OZ Africa Management GP, LLC (“OZ Africa Management”), a subsidiary of
Och-Ziff, has entered into a plea agreement with the United States Department of Justice relating
to certain findings in the Order. Specifically, OZ Africa Management has agreed to plead guilty
to one count of conspiracy to commit offenses against the United States in violation of Title 18,
United States Code, Section 371, that is for violating the anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA, 15
U.S.C. § 78dd-1.
109. Respondent Och-Ziff acknowledges that the Commission is foregoing a one-time
$173,186,178 civil penalty for these charges based upon the imposition of a $213,055,689
criminal penalty as part of Och-Ziff’s settlement with the United States Department of Justice.
Legal Standard and Violations
110. Section 30A of the Exchange Act prohibits any issuer with a class of securities
registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act, or any officer, director, employee, or agent
30

acting on behalf of such issuer, in order to obtain or retain business, from corruptly giving or
authorizing the giving of, anything of value to any foreign official for the purposes of influencing
the official or inducing the official to act in violation of his or her lawful duties, or to secure any
improper advantage, or to induce a foreign official to use his influence with a foreign governmental
instrumentality to influence any act or decision of such government or instrumentality. 15 U.S.C.
§ 78dd-1.
111. Under Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, issuers with a class of securities
registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act are required to make and keep books,
records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
disposition of the assets of the issuer. 15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A).
112. Under Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, issuers with a class of securities
registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act are required to devise and maintain a system
of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that (i) transactions are
executed in accordance with management’s general or specific authorization; (ii) transactions are
recorded as necessary (I) to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such statements, and (II) to
maintain accountability for assets; (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with
management’s general or specific authorization; and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is
compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with
respect to any differences. 15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B).
113. Section 206 of the Advisers Act makes it unlawful for any investment advisers,
directly or indirectly, to (1) “employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud any client or
prospective client” or (2) “engage in any transaction, practice, or course of business which operates
as a fraud or deceit upon any client or prospective client.”
114. Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act prohibits an investment adviser from, directly or
indirectly, engaging in any act, practice or course of business which is fraudulent, deceptive, or
manipulative. Rule 206(4)-8(a)(1) thereunder prohibits an investment adviser to a pooled
investment vehicle from making an untrue statement of material fact or omitting to state a material
fact necessary to make the statements made not misleading to investors or prospective investors in
those pools. Rule 206(4)-8(a)(2) thereunder provides that it is a fraudulent practice for an
investment adviser to a pooled investment vehicle to engage in “fraudulent, deceptive, or
manipulative” conduct with respect to any investor or prospective investor in the pooled
investment vehicle.
115. As a result of the conduct described above, Och-Ziff willfully violated Sections
30A, 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act by participating in bribe schemes to win or
retain business for Och-Ziff, by falsely recording those bribe payments on its books and records,
and by failing to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide
31

reasonable assurances that its transactions comported with Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles.2
116. As a result of the conduct described above, OZ Management willfully violated
Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act by using managed investor funds in the payment of
bribes and self-dealing in transactions involving AGC I and AGC II. OZ Management violated
Section 206(4) and Rule 206(4)-8 of the Advisers Act for by making material misrepresentations
regarding certain AGC II transactions to the Investor.
117. As a result of the conduct described above, Frank was a cause of violations of
Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act by Och-Ziff, which requires an issuer to make and keep
books and records that accurately and fairly reflect the dispositions of its assets, and violations of
Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act by Och-Ziff, which requires an issuer to devise and
maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that
its transactions comported with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
118. As a result of the conduct described above in the two transactions with DRC
Partner, Och was a cause of violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act by Och-Ziff,
which requires an issuer to make and keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect the
dispositions of its assets.
IV.
UNDERTAKINGS
Respondents Och-Ziff and OZ Management undertake to:
A.
Implementation of Enhanced Internal Accounting Controls and Policies: Within
thirty (30) days of entry of this Order, Och-Ziff and OZ Management agree to the following:
i.

2

Implement enhanced internal controls over foreign private equity investments,
including enhanced transactional and partner due diligence, increased monitoring
over use of Och-Ziff funds in transactions involving corruption risk through audit
rights of its business and transactions partners and other available means,
individual representations and warranties for principals in foreign private equity
transactions; limited use of offshore holding companies as recipients for funds in

A willful violation of the securities laws means merely “‘that the person charged with the duty knows what he is
doing.’” Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000) (quoting Hughes v. SEC, 174 F.2d 969, 977 (D.C.
Cir. 1949)). There is no requirement that the actor “‘also be aware that he is violating one of the Rules or Acts.’”
Id. (quoting Gearhart & Otis, Inc. v. SEC, 348 F.2d 798, 803 (D.C. Cir. 1965)).

32

ii.

iii.

iv.
v.

vi.

foreign private equity transactions; and enhanced steps to identify the beneficial
owner of offshore holding companies being paid in connection with foreign
private equity transactions;
Institute policy forbidding use of third-party placement agents or middlemen in
soliciting investors into Och-Ziff managed funds unless use of such agent is
approved by the Business Risk Committee, and limited to regulated financial
entities;
For foreign private equity transactions, institute a policy forbidding use of thirdparty consultants, finders, agents, or other intermediaries unless consistent with
local law and approved by the Chief Compliance Officer or the Business Risk
Committee;
Provide veto power over all matters coming before the company’s Business Risk
Committee, for General Counsel and, separately, for Chief Compliance Officer;
Establish investment committee to review all private equity transactions, and
include participation on investment committee for General Counsel and Chief
Compliance Officer or their designees; and
Require all private equity transactions be approved by Och-Ziff’s investment
committee.

B.
Separation of Chief Compliance Officer From Other Officer Positions: Within
thirty (30) days of the entry of this Order, Och-Ziff and OZ Management agree to designate a
Chief Compliance Officer who, for a period of five (5) years from the entry of this Order, shall
not simultaneously hold any other officer position at Och Ziff or OZ Management while serving
as Chief Compliance Officer.
Respondent Frank undertakes to:
A.
In connection with this action and any related judicial or administrative
proceeding or investigation commenced by the Commission or to which the Commission is a
party, Respondent Frank (i) agrees to appear and be interviewed by Commission staff at such
times and places as the staff requests upon reasonable notice; (ii) will accept service by mail or
facsimile transmission of notices or subpoenas issued by the Commission for documents or
testimony at depositions, hearings, or trials, or in connection with any related investigation by
Commission staff; (iii) appoint Respondent’s attorney as agent to receive service of such notices
and subpoenas; (iv) with respect to such notices and subpoenas, waives the territorial limits on
service contained in Rule 45 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and any applicable local
rules, provided that the party requesting the testimony reimburses Respondent’s travel, lodging,
and subsistence expenses at the then-prevailing U.S. Government per diem rates; and (v) consent
to personal jurisdiction over Respondent in any United States District Court for purposes of
enforcing any such subpoena.

33

Respondent Och undertakes to:
A.
In connection with this action and any related judicial or administrative
proceeding or investigation commenced by the Commission or to which the Commission is a
party, Respondent Och (i) agrees to appear and be interviewed by Commission staff at such
times and places as the staff requests upon reasonable notice; (ii) will accept service by mail or
facsimile transmission of notices or subpoORDER enas issued by the Commission for
documents or testimony at depositions, hearings, or trials, or in connection with any related
investigation by Commission staff; (iii) appoint Respondent’s attorney as agent to receive service
of such notices and subpoenas; (iv) with respect to such notices and subpoenas, waives the
territorial limits on service contained in Rule 45 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and any
applicable local rules, provided that the party requesting the testimony reimburses Respondents’
travel, lodging, and subsistence expenses at the then-prevailing U.S. Government per diem rates;
and (v) consents to personal jurisdiction over Respondent in any United States District Court for
purposes of enforcing any such subpoena.
In determining whether to accept the Offers, the Commission has considered these
Undertakings.
V.
Pursuant to this Order, without admitting or denying the allegations contained herein,
Respondent Frank agrees to additional proceedings in this proceeding to determine what, if any,
civil penalties pursuant to Section 21(B)(a) of the Exchange Act against Respondent Frank are in
the public interest. In connection with such additional proceedings: (a) Respondent Frank agrees
that he will be precluded from arguing that he did not violate the federal securities laws as
described in this Order; (b) Respondent Frank agrees that he may not challenge the validity of this
Order; (c) solely for the purposes of such additional proceedings, the findings of this Order shall be
accepted as and deemed true by the hearing officer; and (d) the hearing officer may determine the
issues raised in the additional proceedings on the basis of affidavits, declarations, excerpts of
sworn deposition or investigative testimony, and documentary evidence.
VI.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose sanctions agreed to in Respondents’ Offers.
Accordingly, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act and Sections 203(e), 203(f) and
203(k) of the Advisers Act, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Respondent Och-Ziff shall cease and desist from committing or causing any
violations and any future violations of Sections 30A, 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange
Act.
34

B.
Respondent OZ Management shall cease and desist from committing or causing
any violations and any future violations of Sections 206(1), 206(2) and 206(4) of the Advisers Act
and Rule 206(4)-8 promulgated thereunder.
C.
Respondent Frank shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations
and any future violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act.
D.
Respondent Och shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations
and any future violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act
E.

Respondents Och-Ziff and OZ Management are censured.

F.
Respondents Och-Ziff and OZ Management, shall, within 14 days of the entry of
this Order, pay, jointly and severally, disgorgement of $173,186,178, and prejudgment interest of
$25,858,989, for a total payment of $199,045,167 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for
transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section
21F(g)(3). If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of
Practice 600.
G.
Respondent Och shall, within 14 days of the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement
of $1,900,000, reflecting his estimated share of gain to Och-Ziff resulting from the transactions
with DRC Partner, and prejudgment interest of $273,718, for a total payment of $2,173,718 to the
United States Treasury. If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to
SEC Rule of Practice 600.
H.
Respondents Och-Ziff, OZ Management, and Och must make payments in one of
the following ways:
(1)

Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will
provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

(2)

Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through
the Commission Web site at: http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States
postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and
hand-delivered or mailed to:
Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
35

Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying the
party paying as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a
copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Paul G. Block, Assistant
Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, Boston Regional Office,
33 Arch Street, Boston, MA 02110.
Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be treated
as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To preserve the
deterrent effect of the civil penalty, each Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor Action,
they shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall they benefit by, offset or reduction of any
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of each Respondent’s payment of a
civil penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants
such a Penalty Offset, each Respondent agrees that they shall, within 30 days after entry of a final
order granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the
amount of the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall
not be deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil
penalty imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action"
means a private damages action brought against any of the Respondents by or on behalf of one or
more investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the
Commission in this proceeding.
I.
Retention of Monitor: Respondent Och-Ziff shall comply with the following
undertakings:
Term of Engagement
1.
To engage an independent monitor (“Monitor”) not unacceptable to the
Commission staff within sixty (60) days of the entry of this Order. Upon entry of the Order, the
Company will propose to the staff a pool of three (3) qualified candidates to serve as the
Monitor. If the staff determines, in their sole discretion, that any of the candidates are not, in fact,
qualified to serve as the Monitor, or if the staff, in their sole discretion, are not satisfied with the
candidates proposed, the staff reserve the right to seek additional nominations from the Company.
The Monitor shall have, at a minimum, the following qualifications: (1) demonstrated expertise
with respect to the FCPA and other applicable anti-corruption laws, including experience
counseling on FCPA issues; (ii) demonstrated experience with respect to the Advisers Act and
other applicable laws, including experience counseling on Advisers Act disclosure and
compliance issues; (iii) experience designing and/or reviewing corporate compliance policies,
procedures, and internal accounting controls, including FCPA and anti-corruption policies,
procedures, and internal accounting controls, and Advisers Act disclosure policies, procedures,
and controls; (iv) the ability to access and deploy resources as necessary to discharge the
36

Monitor’s duties as described in the Order; and (v) sufficient independence from Och-Ziff to
ensure effective and impartial performance of the Monitor’s duties as described in the Order.
2.
The staff retain the right, in their sole discretion, to choose the Monitor from among
the candidates proposed by the Company, though the Company may express its preference(s)
among the candidates. In the event the staff reject all proposed Monitors, the Company shall
propose an additional three candidates within thirty (30) calendar days after receiving notice of the
rejection. This process shall continue until a Monitor acceptable to both parties is chosen. The
staff and the Company will use their best efforts to complete the selection process within sixty (60)
calendar days of the filing of the Agreement and the accompanying Information. If the Monitor
resigns or is otherwise unable to fulfill his or her obligations as set out herein and in Attachment D,
the Company shall within thirty (30) calendar days recommend a pool of three qualified Monitor
candidates from which the Offices will choose a replacement.
3.
Och-Ziff shall retain the Monitor for a period of not less than thirty-six (36)
months, unless the Commission staff finds, in its sole discretion, that there exists a change in
circumstances sufficient to eliminate the need for the Monitor, in which case the monitorship
may be terminated early (the “Monitorship”). The term of the Monitorship can be extended for
an additional twenty-four (24) months, to a total of sixty (60) months from the date the Monitor
is retained. The term of the Monitorship can be extended at the discretion of the staff and as set
forth below.
4.
During the Monitorship and for a period of two years from conclusion of the
Monitorship, neither Och-Ziff nor any of its then-current or former affiliates, subsidiaries,
directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity as such shall enter into, or
discuss the possibility of, any employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing, or other
professional relationship with the Monitor.
Och-Ziff’s Obligations
5.
Och-Ziff shall cooperate fully with the Monitor, and provide the Monitor with
access to all non-privileged information, documents, records, facilities, and employees as
reasonably requested by the Monitor; such access shall be provided consistent with Och-Ziff’s
and the Monitor’s obligations under applicable laws and regulations, including, but not limited
to, applicable data privacy and national security laws and regulations. Och-Ziff shall use its best
efforts, to the extent reasonably requested, to provide the Monitor with access to Och-Ziff’s
former employees, third-party vendors, agents, and consultants.
6.
Och-Ziff agrees that no attorney-client, auditor-client, or similar relationship shall
be formed between Och-Ziff and the Monitor. In the event that Och-Ziff seeks to withhold from
the Monitor access to information, documents, records, facilities, and/or employees of Och-Ziff,
its third-party vendors, agents, or consultants that may be subject to a claim of attorney-client
privilege, the attorney work-product doctrine, or similar legal relationships, or where Och-Ziff
37

reasonably believes production would otherwise be inconsistent with applicable law, Och-Ziff
shall work cooperatively with the Monitor to resolve the matter to the satisfaction of the Monitor.
If during the Monitorship, the Monitor believes that Och-Ziff is unreasonably withholding access
on the basis of a claim of attorney-client privilege, attorney work-product doctrine, or other
asserted applicable law, the Monitor shall promptly notify the Commission staff. If the matter
cannot be resolved, at the request of the Monitor, the Company shall promptly provide written
notice to the Monitor and the staff. Such notice shall include a general description of the nature of
the information, documents, records, facilities or current or former employees that are being
withheld, as well as the legal basis for withholding access. The staff may then consider whether to
make a further request for access to such information, documents, records, facilities, or employees
7.
Any disclosure by Och-Ziff concerning potential corrupt payments, false books
and records, and/or internal accounting control issues shall not relieve Och-Ziff of any otherwise
applicable obligation to truthfully disclose such matters to the Commission staff.
Monitor’s Mandate
8.
The Monitor shall evaluate the effectiveness of the internal accounting controls,
recordkeeping, and financial reporting policies and procedures of Och-Ziff as they relate to OchZiff’s current and ongoing compliance with the anti-bribery, books and records, and internal
accounting controls provisions of the FCPA, other applicable anti-corruption laws (the “anticorruption laws”), and OZ Management’s related disclosure and compliance issues under the
Advisers Act (“disclosure laws”), and make recommendations reasonably designed to improve
the effectiveness of these policies and procedures (the “Mandate”). This Mandate shall include
an assessment of the Board of Directors; and senior managements’ commitment to, and effective
implementation of, the corporate compliance program. In carrying out the Mandate, to the extent
appropriate under the circumstances, the Monitor may coordinate with Och-Ziff personnel,
including in-house counsel, compliance personnel, and internal auditors. The Monitor may rely
on the product of Och-Ziff’s processes, such as the results of studies, reviews, sampling and
testing methodologies, audits, and analyses conducted by or on behalf of Och-Ziff, as well as
Och-Ziff’s internal resources (e.g., legal, compliance, and internal audit), which can assist the
Monitor in carrying out the Mandate.
9.
During the Monitorship, the Monitor shall conduct an initial review and at least
two (2) follow-up reviews and prepare an initial report and at least two (2) follow-up reports, and
issue a Certification Report if appropriate, as described below.
Initial Review and Report
10.
To carry out the Mandate, during the Term of the Monitorship, the Monitor shall
conduct an initial review and prepare an initial report, followed by at least two follow-up reviews
and reports as described below. With respect to the initial report, after consultation with the
Company and the Commission staff, the Monitor shall prepare the first written work plan within
38

thirty (30) calendar days of being retained, and the Company and the staff shall provide comments
within thirty (30) calendar days after receipt of the written work plan. With respect to each followup report, after consultation with the Company and the Commission staff, the Monitor shall
prepare a written work plan at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to commencing a review, and
the Company and the Offices shall provide comments within twenty (20) calendar days after
receipt of the written work plan. Any disputes between the Company and the Monitor with respect
to any written work plan shall be decided by the Commission staff in their sole discretion.
11.
In order to conduct an effective initial review and to understand fully any existing
deficiencies in Och-Ziff’s internal accounting controls and corporate compliance program, or
deficiencies in OZ Management’s Advisers Act compliance, the Monitor’s work plan shall
include such steps as are reasonably necessary to understand Och-Ziff’s business and its global
anti-corruption risks. The steps shall include:
a. Inspection of relevant documents, including the internal accounting controls,
recordkeeping, and financial reporting policies and procedures as they relate
to the Mandate;
b. Inspection of relevant documents and policies and procedures as they relate to
the Mandate;
c. Onsite observation of selected systems and procedures comprising Och-Ziff’s
corporate compliance program, including anti-corruption compliance
procedures, internal accounting controls, recordkeeping, due diligence, and
internal audit procedures, including at sample sites;
d. Meetings with, and interviews of, as relevant, Och-Ziff employees, officers,
directors, and, where appropriate and feasible, its third-party vendors, agents,
or consultants and other persons at mutually convenient times and places; and
e. Risk-based analyses, studies, and testing of Och-Ziff’s and OZ Management’s
corporate compliance program.
12.
The Monitor may take steps as reasonably necessary to develop an understanding
of the facts and circumstances surrounding prior violations of law that gave rise to this action,
but shall not conduct his or her own inquiry into those historical events.
13.
After receiving the initial work plan, Och-Ziff shall provide any comments
concerning the initial work plan within thirty (30) days to the Monitor and Commission staff.
Any disputes between Och-Ziff and the Monitor with respect to the initial work plan shall be
decided by the Commission staff in its sole discretion. Following comments by Och-Ziff and
Commission staff, the Monitor will have fifteen (15) days to make revisions to the initial work
plan.
39

14.
The initial review shall commence no later than one-hundred twenty (120) days
from the date of the engagement of the Monitor (unless otherwise agreed by Och-Ziff, the Monitor,
and the Commission staff). The Monitor shall issue a written report within one hundred twenty
(120) days of commencing the initial review, setting forth the Monitor's assessment and, if
necessary, making recommendations reasonably designed to improve the effectiveness of OchZiff’s internal accounting controls and corporate compliance program as they relate to Och-Ziff’s
compliance with the anti-corruption laws. The Monitor should consult with Och-Ziff concerning
his or her findings and recommendations on an ongoing basis and should consider Och-Ziff’s
comments and input to the extent the Monitor deems appropriate. The Monitor should share a
draft of his or her report with Och-Ziff and Commission staff prior to finalizing them. The
Monitor shall provide the report to the Board of Directors of Och-Ziff and contemporaneously
transmit a copy to Commission staff.
15.
Within one-hundred twenty (120) days after receiving the Monitor's initial report,
Och-Ziff shall adopt and implement all recommendations in the report, provided, however, that
as to any recommendation that Och-Ziff considers unduly burdensome, impractical, or costly, or
inconsistent with applicable law or regulation or otherwise inadvisable, Och-Ziff need not adopt
that recommendation at that time, but may submit in writing to the Monitor and the Commission
staff within sixty (60) days of receiving the report, an alternative policy, procedure, or system
designed to achieve the same objective or purpose.
16.
As to any recommendation on which the Company and the Monitor do not agree,
such parties shall attempt in good faith to reach an agreement within forty-five (45) calendar days
after the Company serves the written notice. In the event Och-Ziff and the Monitor are unable to
agree on an acceptable alternative proposal, Och-Ziff shall promptly consult with the
Commission staff. Any disputes between Och-Ziff and the Monitor with respect to the
recommendations shall be decided by the Commission staff in its sole discretion. The
Commission staff will consider the Monitor's recommendation and Och-Ziff’s reasons for not
adopting the recommendation in determining whether Och-Ziff has fully complied with its
obligations. Pending such determination, Och-Ziff shall not be required to implement any
contested recommendation(s).
17.
With respect to any recommendation that the Monitor determines cannot reasonably
be implemented within one-hundred twenty (120) days after receiving the report, the Monitor may
extend the time period for implementation with prior written approval of the Commission staff.
First Follow-Up Review
18.
Within one hundred-twenty (120) days after the issuance of the initial report, the
Monitor shall submit a written work plan for the follow-up review to Och-Ziff and Commission
staff. Och-Ziff and Commission staff shall provide any comments concerning the work plan
within twenty (20) days in writing to the Monitor. Any disputes between Och-Ziff and the
Monitor with respect to the written work plan shall be decided by the Commission staff in its
40

sole discretion. Following comments by Och-Ziff and Commission staff, the Monitor will have
ninety (90) days to make revisions to the follow-up work plan.
19.
The follow-up review shall commence no later than one hundred-twenty (120) days
after the issuance of the initial report (unless otherwise agreed by Och-Ziff, the Monitor, and the
Commission staff). The Monitor shall issue a written follow-up report within ninety (90) days of
commencing the follow-up review. The follow-up report shall set forth the Monitor's assessment
of, and any additional recommendations regarding, the Mandate; the Monitor's assessment of the
implementation by Och-Ziff of any recommendations made in the initial report; and the Monitor's
assessment of the commitment of Och-Ziff’s Board of Directors and senior management to
compliance with anti-corruption laws
20.
Within one hundred and twenty (120) calendar days after receiving the Monitor’s
initial report, the Company shall adopt and implement all recommendations in the report, unless,
within sixty (60) calendar days of receiving the report, the Company notifies in writing the Monitor
and the Commission staff of any recommendations that the Company considers unduly
burdensome, inconsistent with applicable law or regulation, impractical, excessively expensive, or
otherwise inadvisable. With respect to any such recommendation, the Company need not adopt
that recommendation within the one hundred and twenty (120) days of receiving the report but
shall propose in writing to the Monitor and the Commission staff an alternative policy, procedure
or system designed to achieve the same objective or purpose. As to any recommendation on which
the Company and the Monitor do not agree, such parties shall attempt in good faith to reach an
agreement within forty-five (45) calendar days after the Company serves the written notice.
21.
In the event Och-Ziff and the Monitor are unable to agree on an acceptable
alternative proposal within thirty (30) days, Och-Ziff shall promptly consult with the Commission
staff. Any disputes between Och-Ziff and the Monitor with respect to the recommendations shall
be decided by the Commission staff in its sole discretion. The Commission staff shall consider the
Monitor's recommendation and Och-Ziff’s reasons for not adopting the recommendation in
determining whether Defendant has fully complied with its obligations. Pending such
determination, Defendant shall not be required to implement any contested recommendation(s).
22.
With respect to any recommendation that the Monitor determines cannot reasonably
be implemented within one hundred and twenty (120) calendar days after receiving the report, the
Monitor may extend the time period for implementation with prior written approval of the
Commission staff.
Second Follow-Up Review
23.
A follow-up review shall commence no later than one hundred-twenty (120)
calendar days after the issuance of the initial report (unless otherwise agreed by the Company, the
Monitor and the Commission staff). The Monitor shall issue a written follow-up report within
ninety (90) calendar days of commencing the follow-up review, setting forth the Monitor’s
41

assessment and, if necessary, making recommendations in the same fashion as set forth in
Paragraph 14 with respect to the initial review. After consultation with the Company, the Monitor
may extend the time period for issuance of the follow-up report for a brief period of time with prior
written approval of the Commission staff.
24.
The second follow-up review shall commence no later than one hundred eighty
(180) days after the issuance of the follow-up report (unless otherwise agreed by Och-Ziff, the
Monitor, and the Commission staff). The Monitor shall issue a written follow-up report within
ninety (90) days of commencing the second follow-up review. The follow-up report shall set
forth the Monitor's assessment of, and any additional recommendations regarding, the Mandate;
the Monitor's assessment of the implementation by Och-Ziff of any recommendations made in
the initial report; and the Monitor's assessment of the commitment of Och-Ziff’s Board of
Directors and senior management to compliance with anti-corruption laws.
25.
Within ninety (90) calendar days after receiving the Monitor’s follow-up report, the
Company shall adopt and implement all recommendations in the report, unless, within thirty (30)
calendar days after receiving the report, the Company notifies in writing the Monitor and the
Commission staff concerning any recommendations that the Company considers unduly
burdensome, inconsistent with applicable law or regulation, impractical, excessively expensive, or
otherwise inadvisable. With respect to any such recommendation, the Company need not adopt
that recommendation within the ninety (90) calendar days of receiving the report but shall propose
in writing to the Monitor and the Commission staff an alternative policy, procedure, or system
designed to achieve the same objective or purpose. As to any recommendation on which the
Company and the Monitor do not agree, such parties shall attempt in good faith to reach an
agreement within thirty (30) calendar days after the Company serves the written notice.
26.
In the event Och-Ziff and the Monitor are unable to agree on an acceptable
alternative proposal within fifteen (15) days, Och-Ziff shall promptly consult with the Commission
staff. Any disputes between Och-Ziff and the Monitor with respect to the recommendations shall
be decided by the Commission staff in its sole discretion. The Commission staff shall consider the
Monitor's recommendation and Och-Ziff’s reasons for not adopting the recommendation in
determining whether Och-Ziff has fully complied with its obligations. Pending such
determination, Och-Ziff shall not be required to implement any contested recommendation(s).
With respect to any recommendation that the Monitor determines cannot reasonably be
implemented within ninety (90) calendar days after receiving the report, the Monitor may extend
the time period for implementation with prior written approval of the Offices.
27.
Throughout the Monitorship, the Monitor shall disclose to the Commission staff
any credible evidence that corrupt or otherwise suspicious transactions occurred, or payments or
things of value were offered, promised, made, or authorized by any entity or person within OchZiff, or any entity or person working directly or indirectly for or on behalf of Och-Ziff, or that
related false books and records may have been maintained by or on behalf of Och-Ziff or that
relevant internal controls were circumvented or were not reasonably designed or implemented.
42

The Monitor shall contemporaneously notify Och-Ziff’s General Counsel, Chief Compliance
Officer, and Audit Committee for further action unless at the Monitor's discretion he or she
believes disclosure to Och-Ziff would be inappropriate under the circumstances. The Monitor
shall address in his or her reports the appropriateness of Och-Ziff’s response to all improper
activities, whether previously disclosed to the Commission staff or not.
Certification of Compliance
28.
Within ninety (90) days of the issuance of the second follow-up report, Och-Ziff
shall certify in writing to the Commission staff with copy to the Monitor that Och-Ziff has adopted
and has implemented, or is implementing on an agreed-to schedule, all of the Monitor's
recommendations in the initial and follow-up report(s), or the agreed-upon alternatives.
29.
Within ninety (90) days of the issuance of the second follow-up report, if the
Monitor believes that Och-Ziff’s corporate compliance program is reasonably designed and
implemented to detect and prevent violations of the anti-corruption laws and disclosure laws and is
functioning effectively, the Monitor shall submit to the Commission staff a written report
("Certification Report") that certifies Och-Ziff’s compliance with its corporate compliance
obligations under the Final Judgment. The Certification Report shall set forth an assessment of the
sustainability of Och-Ziff’s remediation efforts and may also recommend areas for further followup in Och-Ziff’s future self-reporting. The Monitor may extend the time period for issuance of the
Certification Report by fifteen (15) days with prior written approval of the Commission staff.
Fourteen (14) days prior to issuing the Certification report, the Monitor shall orally notify the
Commission staff whether he or she expects to be able to certify as provided herein.
Extension of Monitorship
30.
If, after completing the second follow-up review, the Commission staff concludes
that Och-Ziff has not successfully satisfied its obligations under the Monitorship with respect to the
Monitor's Mandate, the Monitorship shall be extended, and the Monitor shall commence a third
follow-up review within sixty (60) days after the Commission staff concludes that Och-Ziff has not
successfully satisfied its compliance obligations under the Monitorship (unless otherwise agreed by
Och-Ziff, the Monitor, and the Commission staff). The Monitor shall issue a written follow-up
report within one hundred twenty (120) days of commencing the third follow-up review in the
same fashion as set forth in Paragraphs 19 through 22 with respect to the follow-up reviews and in
accordance with the procedures for follow-up reports set forth in Paragraphs 19 through 22.
Extensions of Time
31.
Upon request by the Monitor or Och-Ziff, the Commission staff may extend any
procedural time period set forth above for good cause shown.

43

Certification of Completion
32.
No later than sixty (60) days from date of the completion of the undertakings with
respect to the Monitorship, Och-Ziff shall certify, in writing, compliance with the undertakings set
forth above. The certification shall identify the undertakings, provide written evidence of
compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits sufficient to demonstrate
compliance. The Commission staff may make reasonable requests for further evidence of
compliance, and Och-Ziff agrees to provide such evidence.
Confidentiality of Reports
33.
The reports submitted by the Monitor and the periodic reviews and reports
submitted by Och-Ziff will likely include confidential financial, proprietary, competitive business
or commercial information. Public disclosure of the reports could discourage cooperation, impede
pending or potential government investigations or undermine the objective of the reporting
requirement. For these reasons, among others, the reports and the contents thereof are intended to
remain and shall remain non-public, except (i) pursuant to court order, (ii) as agreed to by the
parties in writing, (iii) to the extent the Commission determines in its sole discretion that disclosure
would be in furtherance of the Commission's discharge of its duties and responsibilities, or (iv) as
is otherwise required by law.
Address for All Written Communications and Reports
34.
All reports or other written communications by the Monitor or Och-Ziff directed to
the Commission staff shall be transmitted to Paul G. Block, Assistant Director, FCPA Unit,
Division of Enforcement, Boston Regional Office, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, 33
Arch Street, Boston, MA 02110. A copy of the Certification of Completion and supporting
materials shall also be transmitted to the Office of Chief Counsel of the Enforcement Division at
Division of Enforcement, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, N.E.,
Washington, D.C. 20549.
J.

Notice to Advisory Clients

35.
Within thirty (30) days of the entry of this Order, Och-Ziff and OZ Management
shall provide a copy of the Order to each of OZ Management’s existing advisory clients as of the
entry of this Order via mail, e-mail, or such other method as may be acceptable to the
Commission staff. For a period of one (1) year from the entry of this Order, Och-Ziff and OZ
Management shall provide a copy of the Order to all of its prospective clients.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED pursuant to Rule 100(c) of the Commission’s Rules of
Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.100(c), in the interest of justice and without prejudice to any party to the
proceeding, that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the questions set forth in
44

Section V hereof shall be convened at a time and place to be fixed by, and before, an
Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 of the
Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.110, following the entry of a final judgment
against the last remaining defendant(s) in in all actions related to the conduct described herein (the
“Related Actions”).
If Frank fails to appear at that hearing after being duly notified, Frank may be deemed in
default and the proceedings may be determined against him upon consideration of this Order, the
allegations of which may be deemed to be true as provided by Rules 155(a), 221(f), and 310 of the
Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. §§ 201.155(a), 201.221(f), and 201.310.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED pursuant to Rule 100(c) of the Commission’s Rules of
Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.100(c), in the interest of justice and without prejudice to any party to the
proceeding, that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an initial decision no later than 120 days
from the date of the entry of a final judgment in the Related Actions.
In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission
engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually related
proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter, except as
witness or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice. Since this proceeding is not “rule
making” within the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it is not deemed
subject to the provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any final Commission action.
36.
Respondents Och-Ziff, OZ Management, Och and Frank shall comply with the
undertakings enumerated in Section IV above.
37.

This Order shall be served forthwith upon Respondents personally or by certified

mail.

45

VII.
It is further Ordered that any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or
other amounts due by Respondents Och and Frank under this Order or any other judgment, order,
consent order, decree or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt
for the violation by Respondents Och and Frank of the federal securities laws or any regulation or
order issued under such laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C.
§523(a)(19), and, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 523 of the
Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, Respondents Och and Frank stipulate that the findings in the
Order are true, and that such findings shall be accepted and deemed true, without further proof by
any party, in any nondischargeability proceeding involving the Commission.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

46

