SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
17 CFR Parts 240 and 242
Release No. 34-78309; File No. S7-14-16
RIN 3235-AL67
Disclosure of Order Handling Information
AGENCY:

Securities and Exchange Commission.

ACTION:

Proposed Rule.

SUMMARY: The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission” or “SEC”) is
proposing to amend Rules 600 and 606 of Regulation National Market System (“Regulation
NMS”) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) to require additional
disclosures by broker-dealers to customers about the routing of their orders. Specifically, with
respect to institutional orders, the Commission is proposing to amend Rule 606 of Regulation
NMS to require a broker-dealer, upon request of its customer, to provide specific disclosures
related to the routing and execution of the customer’s institutional orders for the prior six
months. The Commission also is proposing to amend Rule 606 of Regulation NMS to require a
broker-dealer to make publicly available aggregated information with respect to its handling of
customers’ institutional orders for each calendar quarter. With respect to retail orders, the
Commission is proposing to make targeted enhancements to current order routing disclosures
under Rule 606 by requiring limit order information to be broken down into marketable and nonmarketable categories, requiring the disclosure of the net aggregate amount of any payment for
order flow received, payment from any profit-sharing relationship received, transaction fees paid,
and transaction rebates received by a broker-dealer from certain venues, requiring broker-dealers
to describe any terms of payment for order flow arrangements and profit-sharing relationships

with certain venues that may influence their order routing decisions, and eliminating the
requirement to divide retail order routing information by listing market. In connection with these
new requirements, the Commission is proposing to amend Rule 600 of Regulation NMS to
include a number of newly defined terms which are used in the proposed amendments to Rule
606. The Commission is also proposing to amend Rules 605 and 606 of Regulation NMS to
require that the public order execution and order routing reports be kept publicly available for a
period of three years and to make conforming changes to Rule 607. Finally, the Commission is
proposing to amend Rule 3a51-1(a) under the Exchange Act; Rule 13h-1(a)(5) of Regulation
13D-G; Rule 105(b)(1) of Regulation M; Rules 201(a) and 204(g) of Regulation SHO; Rules
600(b), 602(a)(5), 607(a)(1), and 611(c) of Regulation NMS; and Rule 1000 of Regulation SCI,
to update cross-references as a result of this proposed rule.
DATES:

Comments should be received on or before September 26, 2016.

ADDRESSES:

Comments may be submitted by any of the following methods: Electronic

comments:

•Use the Commission’s Internet comment form
(http://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed.shtml);
•Send an email to rule-comments@sec.gov. Please include File Number S7-14-16 on the
subject line; or
•Use the Federal eRulemaking Portal (http://www.regulations.gov). Follow the
instructions for submitting comments.
Paper comments:
•Send paper comments to Brent J. Fields, Secretary, Securities and Exchange

2

Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-1090.
All submissions should refer to File Number S7-14-16. This file number should be included on
the subject line if email is used. To help us process and review your comments more efficiently,
please use only one method. The Commission will post all comments on the Commission’s
Internet Web site (http://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed.shtml). Comments are also available for
Web site viewing and printing in the Commission’s Public Reference Room, 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, DC 20549-1090 on official business days between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 3:00
p.m. All comments received will be posted without change; we do not edit personal identifying
information from submissions. You should submit only information that you wish to make
available publicly.
Studies, memoranda, or other substantive items may be added by the Commission or staff
to the comment file during this rulemaking. A notification of the inclusion in the comment file
of any materials will be made available on the Commission’s website. To ensure direct
electronic receipt of such notifications, sign up through the “Stay Connected” option at
www.sec.gov to receive notifications by e-mail.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Theodore S. Venuti, Assistant Director, at
(202) 551-5658, Arisa Tinaves Kettig, Senior Special Counsel, at (202) 551-5676, Steve Kuan,
Special Counsel, at (202) 551-5624, Amir Katz, Special Counsel, at (202) 551-7653, Chris
Grobbel, Special Counsel, at (202) 551-5491, or Andrew Sioson, Attorney-Advisor, at (202)
551-7186 Division of Trading and Markets, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street,
NE, Washington, DC 20549.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Commission is proposing: (1) amendments to
Rules 600 and 606 under the Exchange Act [17 CFR 242.600 and 202.606] to require additional

3

disclosures by broker-dealers to customers about the routing of their orders; (2) amendments to
Rule 605 [17 CFR 242.605] to require that the public order execution and order routing reports
be kept publicly available for a period of three years; and (3) conforming changes and updating
cross-references in Rule 3a51-1(a) under the Exchange Act [17 CFR 240.3a51-1(a)], Rule 13h1(a)(5) of Regulation 13D-G [17 CFR 240.13h-1(a)(5)], Rule 105(b)(1) of Regulation M [17
CFR 242.105(b)(1)] Rules 201(a) and 204(g) of Regulation SHO [17 CFR 242.201(a) and
242.204(g)], Rules 600(b), 602(a)(5), 605, 607(a)(1), and 611(c) of Regulation NMS [17 CFR
242.600(b), 242.602(a)(5), 242.605, 242.607(a)(1), and 242.611(c)], and Rule 1000 of
Regulation SCI [17 CFR 242.1000].
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.

Introduction

II.

Current Practices and Regulation and the Need for Enhanced Disclosures
A.

Background on Rule 606

B.

Changes in Order Handling Practices

C.

Need for Enhanced Disclosures for Institutional Orders
1.

Market Complexity

2.

Assessing Best Execution

3.

Conflicts of Interest

4.

Information Leakage

D.

Need for Public Reporting of Aggregated Institutional Order Information

E.

Need for Enhanced Disclosures for Retail Orders

F.

Comments on Equity Market Structure
1.

General Need to Update Rule 606

4

2.

Need for Rule 606 to be Modernized to Maintain Pace with Technological
Advances

III.

3.

Requests for Specific Information and Standardized Disclosures

4.

Requests for Specific Disclosures for Institutional Orders

5.

Comments on Actionable Indications of Interest

Proposed Amendments to Rule 600, Rule 605, Rule 606, and Rule 607
A.

B.

Disclosures for Institutional Orders
1.

Definition of Institutional Order in Proposed Rule 600(b)(31)

2.

Definition of Actionable Indication of Interest in Proposed Rule 600(b)(1)

3.

Scope and Format of Reports

4.

Report Content

5.

Public Report for Institutional Orders

Disclosures for Retail Orders
1.

Marketable Limit Orders and Non-Marketable Limit Orders

2.

Net Payment for Order Flow and Transaction Fees and Rebates by Specified
Venue

3.

Discussion of Arrangement Terms with a Specified Venue

4.

Additional Amendments to Retail Disclosures

5.

Amendment to Rule 600(b)(18) to rename “Customer Order” to “Retail
Order”

C.
IV.

Amendment to Disclosure of Order Execution Information

Paperwork Reduction Act
A.

Summary of Collection of Information

5

1.

Customer Requests for Information on Institutional Orders

2.

Public Aggregated Report on Institutional Orders

3.

Requirement to Document Methodologies for Categorizing Institutional
Order Routing Strategies

B.

4.

Amendment to Current Disclosures With Respect to Retail Orders

5.

Amendment to Current Disclosures under Rule 605

Proposed Use of Information
1.

Customer Requests for Information on Institutional Orders

2.

Public Aggregated Report on Institutional Orders

3.

Requirement to Document Methodologies for Categorizing Institutional
Order Routing Strategies

4.

Amendment to Current Disclosures With Respect to Retail Orders

5.

Amendment to Current Disclosures under Rule 605

C.

Respondents

D.

Total Initial and Annual Reporting and Recordkeeping Burdens
1.

Customer Requests for Information on Institutional Orders

2.

Public Aggregated Report on Institutional Orders

3.

Requirement to Document Methodologies for Categorizing Institutional
Order Routing Strategies

4.

Amendment to Current Disclosures With Respect to Retail Orders

5.

Amendment to Current Disclosures under Rule 605

E.

Collection of Information is Mandatory

F.

Confidentiality of Responses to Collection of Information

6

V.

G.

Retention Period for Recordkeeping Requirements

H.

Request for Comments

Economic Analysis
A.

Introduction

B.

Baseline
1.

Ad Hoc Reports for Institutional Orders

2.

Publication Period for Reports on Retail Orders Required by Current Rules
605 and 606

3.

Available Information on Conflicts of Interest

4.

Available Information on Execution Quality for Institutional and Retail
Orders

C.

D.

5.

Format of Current Reports for Institutional and Retail Orders

6.

Quality of Broker-Dealer Routing Practices for Institutional Orders

7.

Use of Actionable IOIs in Institutional Orders

8.

Competition, Efficiency, and Capital Formation

9.

Request for Comment

Costs and Benefits
1.

Disclosures for Institutional Orders

2.

Disclosures for Retail Orders

3.

Disclosure of Order Execution Information

4.

Structured Format of Reports

5.

Other Definitions in Proposed Amendments to Rule 600

Alternatives Considered

7

1.

Definition of Institutional Order in Proposed Rule 606(b)(31)

2.

Limited or No Public Disclosure of Institutional Order Routing and
Execution Quality (Proposed Rule 606(c))

3.

More Frequent Public Disclosure of Institutional Order Routing and
Execution Information (Proposed Rule 606(c))

4.

Automatic Provision of Customer-Specific Institutional Order Handling
Report (Proposed Rule 606(b)(3))

5.

Submission of Institutional Order Handling Reports (Proposed Rules
606(b)(3) and 606(c))

6.

Disaggregate Categories of NMS Stocks for Rule 606(a)

7.

Disclosure of Additional Information about Institutional Order Routing and
Execution

8.

Institutional Order Handling Reports at the Stock Level (Proposed Rule
606(b)(3))

9.

Alternative to Three-Year Posting Period (Proposed Amendments to Rules
605(a)(2) and 606(a)(1), and Proposed Rule 606(c))

10. Request for Comment
E.

Economic Effects and Effects on Efficiency, Competition, and Capital Formation
1.

Effects of Proposed Amendments on Efficiency and Competition

2.

Effects of Proposed Amendments on Capital Formation

3.

Request for Comment

VI.

Consideration of Impact on the Economy

VII.

Regulatory Flexibility Analysis

8

VIII.
I.

Statutory Authority and Text of the Proposed Rule Amendments

Introduction
Institutional customers have a compelling interest in the order handling decisions of their
executing brokers as they monitor the execution quality of their orders, both from the standpoint
of the price received and to evaluate the potential negative effects of information leakage and
conflicts of interest. 1 This focus on order handling has intensified in recent years as routing and
execution practices have evolved as markets have become more automated, dispersed, and
complex. 2 Historically, there was a substantial manual component involved in the routing and
execution of institutional customers’ orders. Today, however, institutional orders tend to be
routed and executed using sophisticated order execution algorithms developed by broker-dealers

or others that break up large institutional orders into smaller “child” orders, and smart order
routing systems to route those child orders to the full range of trading centers in the national
market system, including exchanges, “dark pool” alternative trading systems (“ATSs”), other
ATSs, and internalizing broker-dealers. 3 These order routing and execution algorithms use a

1

An institutional customer includes, for example, pension funds, mutual funds, investment
advisers, insurance companies, investment banks, and hedge funds.

2

See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 73639 (November 19, 2014), 79 FR 72252,
72397 (December 5, 2014) (“Regulation SCI Adopting Release”) (stating that markets
have evolved “to become significantly more dependent on sophisticated, complex, and
interconnected technology”); see also Securities Exchange Act Release No. 61358
(January 14, 2010), 75 FR 3594 (January 21, 2010) (“Concept Release on Equity Market
Structure”) (stating that “the current market structure can be described as dispersed and
complex: (1) Trading volume is dispersed among many highly automated trading centers
that compete for order flow in the same stocks; and (2) trading centers offer a wide range
of services that are designed to attract different types of market participants with varying
trading needs”).

3

A “trading center” means a national securities exchange or national securities association
that operates an SRO trading facility, an alternative trading system, an exchange market
maker, an OTC market maker, or any other broker or dealer that executes orders
9

wide variety of methods, ranging from non-time-sensitive passive strategies to aggressive
liquidity-taking strategies, to achieve the trading goals of the institutional customer. Although
certain advantages flow from technological advancements and the increase in number of venues,
the Commission preliminarily believes that the complexity of order execution algorithms and
smart order routing systems, and the multiplicity of venues to which broker-dealers may route
orders or send actionable indications of interest, have made it increasingly difficult for
institutional customers to assess the impact particular order routing strategies may have on the
quality of their executions, or the risks presented by any resulting information leakage or brokerdealer conflicts of interest.
Changes to market structure and routing practices have led many institutional customers
to demand more specific and detailed institutional order handling information from their brokerdealers. The Commission notes that for purposes of this proposing release, the use of
“institution” or “institutional” shall refer to an institutional order, as proposed to be defined in
proposed Rule 600(b)(31), 4 and the term “institutional customer” shall refer to a sender of an
institutional order.
The Commission understands that institutional customer requests range from detailed
information about the handling of specific institutional orders to more generic data about the
order routing strategies pursued by the broker-dealer for institutional customers and the venues
to which their orders are routed and executed. The level of detail of the information provided
tends to vary by broker-dealer, as well as the particular institutional customer, some of whom

internally by trading as principal or crossing orders as agent. See 17 CFR
242.600(b)(78).
4

See infra Section III.A.1.

10

may have the wherewithal and desire to digest and evaluate voluminous order handling
information and some of whom may not.
The Commission preliminarily believes that market-based efforts to provide institutional
order handling transparency may not be sufficient insofar as smaller institutional customers may
lack the bargaining power or the resources to demand relevant order handling information from
their broker-dealers. In addition, while many institutional customers regularly conduct, directly
or through a third-party vendor, transaction cost analysis (“TCA”) of their orders to assess
execution quality against various benchmarks, the Commission preliminarily believes that the
comprehensiveness of such analysis could be enhanced with more granular order handling
information. The Commission also preliminarily believes that standardizing the baseline
information provided by broker-dealers could help ensure the wide availability of meaningful
order handling information that may be produced in an efficient and cost-effective manner. 5
In light of the foregoing, the Commission preliminarily believes that standardized
baseline institutional order handling information should be required to be made available to the
institutional customer upon request so that the institutional customer can more effectively assess
the impact of order routing decisions on the quality of their executions, including the risks of

5

There have been recent efforts by representatives of broker-dealers and institutional
customers to develop a template of baseline order routing disclosure, and these efforts are
reflected in a letter from the Investment Company Institute, the Managed Funds
Association, and the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (collectively,
the “Associations”). See Letter to Mary Jo White, Chair, Commission, from Dorothy M.
Donohue, Deputy General Counsel, Investment Company Institute, Stuart J. Kaswell,
Executive Vice President & Managing Director, General Counsel, Managed Funds
Association, and Randy Snook, Executive Vice President, Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association, dated October 23, 2014 (“Associations Letter”), available
at http://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-02-10/s70210-428.pdf.

11

information leakage and potential conflicts of interest. 6 Further, the Commission preliminarily
believes that public disclosure of institutional order handling information, on an aggregated
basis, could assist market participants in comparing the routing services of multiple brokerdealers, and the relative merits of competing trading centers, and facilitate institutional
customers’ ability to make informed decisions when engaging the services of a broker-dealer.
The Commission preliminarily believes that the proposal would further encourage broker-dealers
to minimize information leakage when executing an institutional order. The Commission
preliminarily believes that the potential benefits of public disclosure of aggregated institutional
order handling information should justify any potential negative competitive impact such
disclosure may have on broker-dealers.
The changes to market structure have impacted the market for customer order routing and
execution services. Currently, a “customer order” means an order to buy or sell an NMS security
that is not for the account of a broker-dealer, but shall not include any order for a quantity of a
security having a market value of at least $50,000 for an NMS security that is an option contract
and a market value of at least $200,000 for any other NMS security. 7 As such, the term
“customer order,” when used in Regulation NMS, only refers to smaller-sized orders. As
discussed in more detail below, the Commission is proposing to rename “customer order” to
“retail order” and for purposes of this proposing release, the term “retail customer” shall refer to
a sender of a retail order.
As discussed below, the rise in the number of trading centers and the introduction of new
fee models for execution services have intensified competition for retail order flow and created
6

See infra Sections II.C.3. and II.C.4.

7

See 17 CFR 242.600(b)(18).

12

new potential conflicts of interest for broker-dealers. The Commission preliminarily believes
that simplified and enhanced disclosures for retail orders, particularly with respect to financial
inducements from trading centers, should assist retail customers in evaluating better the order
routing services of their broker-dealers. Additionally, public transparency of retail orders should
drive competition as broker-dealers seek to compete on the basis of the quality of their order
routing and execution services as well as their ability to manage conflicts of interest.
The Commission therefore is proposing amendments to Rules 600 8 and 606 9 of
Regulation NMS to require, for the first time, disclosures by broker-dealers about their handling
of institutional orders, and enhancements to existing disclosures with respect to retail orders. 10
Specifically, with respect to institutional orders, the Commission is proposing to amend Rule 606
of Regulation NMS to require a broker-dealer, upon request of its customer, to provide specific
disclosures, for the prior six months, broken down by calendar month, related to: (1) the
handling of the customer’s institutional orders at the broker-dealer; (2) the routing of the
customer’s institutional orders to various trading centers; (3) the execution of those orders, and
the quality of execution; and (4) the extent to which such orders provided liquidity or removed
liquidity, and the average transaction rebates received or fees paid by the broker-dealer. This
information would be provided for each venue, and would further be divided into passive,
neutral, and aggressive order routing strategies. In connection with this new requirement, the
Commission is proposing to amend Rule 600 of Regulation NMS to include definitions of the
8

17 CFR 242.600.

9

17 CFR 242.606.

10

The Commission notes that the proposed amendments to Rule 606, if adopted, would not
limit any other obligations that the broker-dealer may have under applicable federal
securities laws, rules, or regulations, including the anti-fraud provisions of the federal
securities laws.

13

terms “institutional order,” “actionable indication of interest,” “orders providing liquidity,” and
“orders removing liquidity,” and to rename the defined term “customer order” to “retail order.”
The Commission also is proposing to amend Rule 606 of Regulation NMS to require a brokerdealer to make publicly available the foregoing information, on an aggregated basis, for all of its
customers’ institutional orders, for each calendar quarter, broken down by calendar month, and
keep such reports posted on an Internet Web site that is free and readily accessible to the public
for a period of three years from the initial date of posting on the Internet Web site.
Further, with respect to retail orders, the Commission preliminarily believes that the
existing Rule 606 disclosures should be updated to require that more relevant routing
information is provided to retail customers. Specifically, the Commission is proposing to: (1)
require limit order information to be split into marketable 11 and non-marketable 12 categories; (2)
require more detailed disclosure of the net aggregate amount of any payments received from or
paid to certain trading centers; (3) require broker-dealers to describe any terms of payment for
order flow arrangements and profit-sharing relationships with certain venues that may influence
its order routing decisions; (4) require that broker-dealers keep retail order routing reports posted
11

A “marketable limit order” is any buy order with a limit price equal to or greater than the
national best offer at the time of order receipt, or any sell order with a limit price equal to
or less than the national best bid at the time of order receipt. 17 CFR 242.600(b)(39).
“National best bid and national best offer” means, with respect to quotations for an NMS
security, the best bid and best offer for such security that are calculated and disseminated
on a current and continuing basis by a plan processor pursuant to an effective national
market system plan; provided, that in the event two or more market centers transmit to
the plan processor pursuant to such plan identical bids or offers for an NMS security, the
best bid or best offer (as the case may be) shall be determined by ranking all such
identical bids or offers (as the case may be) first by size (giving the highest ranking to the
bid or offer associated with the largest size), and then by time (giving the highest ranking
to the bid or offer received first in time). 17 CFR 242.600(b)(42).

12

The Commission is proposing in new Rule 600(b)(51) to define “non-marketable limit
order” to mean “any limit order other than a marketable limit order”, as discussed in more
detail below. See infra Section III.B.1.

14

on an Internet Web site that is free and readily accessible to the public for a period of three years
from the initial date of posting on the Internet Web site; and (5) eliminate the requirement to
group retail order routing information by listing market.
Finally, consistent with the proposed amendments to Rule 606, the Commission is
proposing to amend Rule 605 to require market centers 13 to keep execution reports required by
the rule posted on an Internet Web site that is free of charge and readily accessible to the public
for a period of three years from the initial date of posting on the Internet Web site. With respect
to Rule 607, the Commission is proposing to amend the rule text to reflect the renaming of the
defined term “customer order” to “retail order,” but is making no substantive changes to the
defined term. As noted above, the Commission is proposing amendments to other rules to
update cross-references as a result of this proposal. 14
The release first provides relevant background on Rule 606 and then discusses the
technological advances and regulatory changes that have prompted the proposal. The release
then discusses, in detail, the proposed amendments to Rules 600, 605, 606, and 607 including the
new institutional order handling disclosures that would be required from broker-dealers.

13

A “market center” means any exchange market maker, OTC market maker, alternative
trading system, national securities exchange, or national securities association. See 17
CFR 242.600(b)(38).

14

The Commission is proposing to amend Rule 3a51-1(a) under the Exchange Act; Rule
13h-1(a)(5) of Regulation 13D-G; Rule 105(b)(1) of Regulation M; Rules 201(a) and
204(g) of Regulation SHO; Rules 600(b), 602(a)(5), 607(a)(1), and 611(c) of Regulation
NMS; and Rule 1000 of Regulation SCI.

15

II.

Current Practices and Regulation and the Need for Enhanced Disclosures
A.

Background on Rule 606

The Commission proposed and adopted Rule 11Ac1-6, 15 now known as Rule 606 of
Regulation NMS, 16 in 2000, to improve public disclosure of order routing practices. Rule 606
arose out of the Commission’s extended inquiry into market fragmentation, defined at the time as
the trading of orders in multiple locations without interaction among those orders. 17 In adopting
Rule 606, the Commission stated that “[i]n a fragmented market structure with many different
market centers trading the same security, the order routing decision is critically important, both
to the individual investor whose order is routed and to the efficiency of the market structure as a
whole. The decision must be well-informed and fully subject to competitive forces.” 18 The
Commission further stated that public disclosure of order routing practices “could provoke more
vigorous competition on . . . order routing performance.” 19

15

See Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 43084 (July 28, 2000), 65 FR 48406 (August
8, 2000) (“Rule 606 Predecessor Proposing Release”) and 43590 (November 17, 2000),
65 FR 75414 (December 1, 2000) (“Rule 606 Predecessor Adopting Release”).

16

The Commission re-designated Rule 11Ac1-6 as Rule 606 when adopting Regulation
NMS in 2005. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 51808 (June 9, 2005), 70 FR
37496, 37538 (June 29, 2005) (“Regulation NMS Adopting Release”). For clarity, when
this release discusses the proposal of Rule 606 or the adoption of Rule 606, it is referring
to the Rule 606 Predecessor Proposing Release and Rule 606 Predecessor Adopting
Release, supra note 15, respectively.

17

See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 42450 (February 23, 2000), 65 FR 10577
(February 28, 2000) (Commission request for comment, included in a notice of a
proposed self-regulatory organization (“SRO”) rule change) (“Fragmentation Release”).

18

See Rule 606 Predecessor Adopting Release, supra note 15, at 75415.

19

Id. at 75417. Industry participants commenting in response to the Concept Release on
Equity Market Structure, supra note 2, have expressed the view that increased order
routing transparency has led to increased competition. See, e.g., Letters to Secretary,
Commission, from Joan C. Conley, Senior Vice President and Corporate Secretary, The
NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc., dated April 30, 2010 (“NASDAQ Letter”), at 21 (stating
that NASDAQ shares the Commission’s belief that transparency promotes competition);
16

In adopting Rule 606, the Commission limited its scope to smaller orders. 20 Larger
orders were excluded in recognition of the fact that, at the time, generalized information for
order routing practices would be more useful for smaller orders, which tended to be handled in a
more homogenous manner. 21 Because institutional orders required more individualized, manual
handling, they were excluded from Rule 606 in recognition of the fact that, at that time,
providing standardized order handling statistics would be neither practical nor useful in this
context. 22
Thus, in its current form, Rule 606(a) applies only to retail-sized orders, and requires
every broker-dealer to publicly provide a quarterly report on its routing of non-directed orders 23
in NMS securities. 24 Currently, the report includes the following information, separated by

from Christopher Nagy, Managing Director Order Strategy, Co-Head of Government
Relations, TD Ameritrade and John S. Markle, Deputy General Counsel, Co-Head of
Government Relations, TD Ameritrade, dated April 21, 2010 (“TD Ameritrade Letter”),
at 3-4 (stating that added transparency has driven brokers to continuously seek better
executions for clients).
20

The Commission limited the scope of Rule 606 to smaller orders by defining a customer
order as an order to buy or sell an NMS security that is not for the account of a broker or
dealer, but shall not include any order for a quantity of a security having a market value
of at least $50,000 for an NMS security that is an option contract and a market value of at
least $200,000 for any other NMS security. See 17 CFR 242.600(b)(18).

21

See Rule 606 Predecessor Adopting Release, supra note 15, at 75426.

22

See id.

23

A “non-directed order” means any customer order other than a directed order. See 17
CFR 242.600(b)(48). A “directed order” means a customer order that the customer
specifically instructed the broker or dealer to route to a particular venue for execution.
See 17 CFR 242.600(b)(19). See also supra note 7 and accompanying text. The
Commission is proposing to rename “customer order” as “retail order,” which would
carry through to these two definitions. See infra Section III.B.5.

24

An “NMS security” is any security or class of securities for which transaction reports are
collected, processed, and made available pursuant to an effective transaction reporting
17

listing market for NMS stocks, 25 and in the aggregate for NMS securities that are option
contracts: (1) the percentage of total retail orders that were non-directed orders, and the
percentages of total non-directed orders that were market orders, limit orders, and other orders;
(2) the identity of the ten venues to which the largest number of total non-directed orders were
routed for execution and of any venue to which five percent or more of such orders were routed
(collectively, “Specified Venues”) and the percentage of total non-directed orders routed to each
Specified Venue, and the percentages of total non-directed market orders, total non-directed limit
orders, and total non-directed other orders that were routed to each Specified Venue; and (3) a
discussion of the material aspects of the broker-dealer’s relationship with each Specified Venue,
including a description of any payment for order flow 26 or profit-sharing relationship
arrangements. 27

plan, or an effective national market system plan for reporting transactions in listed
options. See 17 CFR 242.600(b)(46).
25

An “NMS stock” is any NMS security other than an option. See 17 CFR 242.600(b)(47).

26

“Payment for order flow” has the meaning provided in 17 CFR 240.10b-10. See 17 CFR
242.600(b)(54). “Payment for order flow” means any monetary payment, service,
property, or other benefit that results in remuneration, compensation, or consideration to
a broker or dealer from any broker or dealer, national securities exchange, registered
securities association, or exchange member in return for the routing of customer orders
by such broker or dealer to any broker or dealer, national securities exchange, registered
securities association, or exchange member for execution, including but not limited to:
research, clearance, custody, products or services; reciprocal agreements for the provision
of order flow; adjustment of a broker or dealer’s unfavorable trading errors; offers to
participate as underwriter in public offerings; stock loans or shared interest accrued
thereon; discounts, rebates, or any other reductions of or credits against any fee to, or
expense or other financial obligation of, the broker or dealer routing a customer order that
exceeds that fee, expense or financial obligation. See 17 CFR 240.10b-10(d)(8).

27

A “profit-sharing relationship” means any ownership or other type of affiliation under
which the broker or dealer, directly or indirectly, may share in any profits that may be
derived from the execution of non-directed orders. See 17 CFR 242.600(b)(56).

18

Rule 606(b) currently requires every broker-dealer to provide customers, upon request,
specific information about the routing of their orders. Specifically, upon request, every brokerdealer shall: (1) disclose to its customer the identity of the venue to which the customer’s orders
were routed for execution in the six months prior to the request, whether the orders were directed
orders or non-directed orders, and the time of the transactions, if any, that resulted from such
orders; and (2) notify customers in writing at least annually of the availability of this information
upon request.
B.

Changes in Order Handling Practices

U.S. equity market structure has changed significantly since the adoption of Rule 606.
Today it is highly automated, dispersed among myriad trading centers, and more complex than it
was in 2000. 28 The primary drivers of this market transformation have been the rapid and
ongoing evolution of technologies for generating, routing, and executing orders, and the impact
of regulatory changes. 29 In 2000, a large proportion of order flow in listed equity securities was
routed to a few, mostly manual, trading centers, and it was rare that such orders would be rerouted to other venues. 30 In contrast, today, trading in the U.S. equity markets is spread among a
number of highly automated trading centers: 12 registered exchanges, more than 40 ATSs, 31 and

28

See Concept Release on Equity Market Structure, supra note 2, at 3594. See also
Regulation SCI Adopting Release, supra note 2, at 72397.

29

See Concept Release on Equity Market Structure, supra note 2, at 3594 (“Changes in
market structure also reflect the markets’ response to regulatory actions such as
Regulation NMS, adopted in 2005, the Order Handling Rules, adopted in 1996, as well as
enforcement actions, such as those addressing anti-competitive behavior by market
makers in NASDAQ stocks”).

30

See Fragmentation Release, supra note 17.

31

Data compiled from Forms ATS-R filed with the Commission as of the end the fourth
quarter of 2014.

19

over 200 over-the-counter (“OTC”) market-makers, 32 and the routing and re-routing of orders to
multiple venues is common. These venues offer a wide range of services and pricing structures
that are designed to attract different types of market participants with varying trading needs. 33
According to a staff report published in 1994, prior to the emergence and growth of
electronic markets, institutional customers would rely primarily on exchange floor brokers or
upstairs block positioners to execute their large orders. 34 Typically, exchange floor brokers or
upstairs block positioners would negotiate large trades off the exchange (often referred to as
“upstairs”) and subsequently execute or “print” on the exchange - subject to auction market
procedures allowing the limit order book or the trading crowd to participate in the trade and
exposing the order to the market. 35 The nature of floor trading activity and upstairs block
positioning allowed broker-dealers to manually exercise judgment and expertise to achieve best
execution, and typically involved strategies that were designed to conceal information about an
institutional customer’s trading interest to potential counterparties to minimize price impact.
In today’s electronic markets, however, the manual handling of institutional orders is
increasingly rare, and has been replaced by sophisticated institutional order execution algorithms
and smart order routing systems. These sophisticated algorithms and systems decide the timing,

32

More than 200 broker-dealers (excluding ATSs) have identified themselves to the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) as market centers that must provide
monthly reports on order execution quality under Rule 605 of Regulation NMS (list
available at http://apps.finra.org/datadirectory/1/marketmaker.aspx).

33

See Concept Release on Equity Market Structure, supra note 2, at 3594.

34

See Division of Market Regulation, SEC, Market 2000: An Examination of Current
Equity Market Developments, at II-14 (January 1994).

35

Id. at II-14-15.

20

pricing, and quantity of orders routed to the various trading centers. 36 Broker-dealers often use
order execution algorithms to divide a large “parent” order of an institutional customer into many
smaller “child” orders, and route the child orders over time to different trading centers in
accordance with a particular strategy. 37 Such algorithms may be “aggressive,” and generally
seek to take liquidity quickly at many different trading centers, or they may be “passive,” and
generally submit resting orders at one or more trading centers and await executions at favorable
prices, or they may be “neutral,” and seek to take liquidity or submit resting orders depending on
market conditions. 38 In addition, some broker-dealers utilize indications of interest to notify
external liquidity providers of trading interest at that broker-dealer.
C.

Need for Enhanced Disclosures for Institutional Orders
1.

Market Complexity

Institutional customers have long focused on the execution quality of their large orders,
and the potential impacts from information leakage and conflicts of interest faced by their
broker-dealers. While there is some indication that enhancements to electronic order routing
systems and processes generally have led to improved execution quality in many cases, 39 the
operation of order routing systems and processes often is opaque to customers placing
36

See, e.g., Terrence Hendershott, Charles Jones, and Albert Menkveld, Does Algorithmic
Trading Improve Liquidity, 66 Journal of Finance 1 (February 2011).

37

See Concept Release on Equity Market Structure, supra note 2, at 3602.

38

See id.

39

See, e.g., Letter to Secretary, Commission, from Greg O’Connor, Compliance Manager,
Wolverine Trading, LLC, dated April 21, 2010 (“Wolverine Trading Letter”), at 5
(stating that technological advancements have led to improved markets and executions as
indicated by tighter spreads, lower trading costs, and more liquidity). See also Thierry
Foucault and Albert J. Menkveld, Competition for Order Flow and Order Routing
Systems, 63 Journal of Finance 119, 121 (February 2008) (discussing that utilization of
smart order routers reduces the incidence of trade-throughs and may encourage provision
of liquidity).

21

institutional orders, who may not have sufficient information to understand how, where, and why
their orders are routed to specific venues, and whether particular order routing and execution
strategies, whether or not selected by the customer, are consistent with the customer’s
expectations.
As noted above, at the time of adoption of Rule 606, institutional orders generally were
handled by an exchange floor broker or upstairs block positioner. The risks of information
leakage and broker-dealer conflicts of interest existed with manual order handling, but because
the execution alternatives were fewer and simpler, less data was necessary for institutional
customers to evaluate those risks and evaluate broker-dealer performance. Now, however,
because of the complexity of order execution algorithms and smart order routing systems, and
the wide variety of venues to which broker-dealers may route institutional orders or send
actionable indications of interest, access to data is important for institutional customers to assess
the impact a broker-dealer’s order routing strategies may have on the quality of their executions
and the risks presented by any resulting information leakage or broker-dealer conflicts of
interest.
Institutional customers increasingly have been expressing concerns regarding the
difficulty in obtaining and comparing certain information across broker-dealers and venues, and
understanding how their institutional orders are handled by broker-dealers, and have called for
enhanced order handling disclosures. 40 Institutional customers have cited concerns, among other
things, about the extent to which broker-dealer routing decisions are influenced by incentives
offered by trading centers to attract order flow, that inefficiencies in order execution algorithms
and smart order routing systems may lead to information leakage, and that the complexity and
40

See Associations Letter, supra note 5, at 2.

22

opacity of order routing practices frustrate the ability to monitor execution quality. Importantly,
a variety of other market participants, including broker-dealers, also have expressed support for
enhanced and consistent disclosure of institutional order handling information. 41

41

The Commission received letters addressing these issues in response to requests for
comment on the Concept Release on Equity Market Structure, supra note 2 (comment
letters available at http://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-02-10/s70210.shtml). See Letters to
Secretary, Commission, from Christopher Nagy, CEO, and Dave Lauer, President, KOR
Group LLC, dated September 23, 2014 (“KOR Trading Letter II”), at 1-2 (stating Rule
606 is severely outdated, has no coverage of large orders, and should be updated to cover
all orders); from Richie Prager, Managing Director, Head of Trading & Liquidity
Strategies, et al., BlackRock, Inc., dated September 12, 2014 (“BlackRock Letter”), at 3
(stating broker-dealers should be required to provide periodic standardized reports on
order routing and execution metrics to both retail and institutional investors); from
Christopher Nagy, CEO, and Dave Lauer, President, KOR Trading LLC, dated April 4,
2014 (“KOR Trading Letter I”), at 2 (stating Rule 606 has become increasingly outdated
as a result of the increasing complexity of order-types as well as the speed of routing and
routing practices and Rule 606 should be updated to cover 100% of order flow received,
including block transactions); from Kimberly Unger, Esq., Executive Director, Security
Traders Association of New York, Inc., dated April 30, 2010 (“STA Letter”), at 8 (stating
that since the adoption of Rule 606 in 2000, technological advancements have made some
of the measurements in the Rule less meaningful and suggesting that 606 metrics be
reviewed, amended, and updated, as needed); NASDAQ Letter, supra note 19, at 20
(stating Rule 606 has lagged behind technological advances that enhance market quality,
which consequently renders the metrics utilized in Rule 606 less useful to investors, and
further suggesting new metrics for inclusion on reports and refinements to current
metrics); from Ann Vlcek, Managing Director and Associate General Counsel, Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association, dated April 29, 2010 (“SIFMA Letter I”), at
13 (stating that the Commission should direct broker-dealers to provide institutional
clients with standardized execution venue statistical analysis reports); from O. Mason
Hawkins, Richard W. Hussey, Deborah L. Craddock, Jeffrey D. Engelberg, and W.
Douglas Schrank, Southeastern Asset Management, Inc., dated April 28, 2010 (“SAM
Letter”), at 7 (stating increased complexity in the marketplace has clouded order handling
to the point where even educated customers are not completely confident as to how or
why their orders are routed to specific venues in a specific way); from Janet M. Kissane,
SVP - Legal & Corporate Secretary, Office of the General Counsel, NYSE Euronext,
dated April 23, 2010 (“NYSE Euronext Letter”), at 12, Appendix I at 3-4 (stating that
U.S. equity market structure has changed substantially resulting in Rule 606 becoming
outdated, and that Rule 606 reports do not capture information concerning block
transactions and that the rule should be amended to include such information); Wolverine
Trading Letter, supra note 39, at 4 (stating that the firm believes information currently
required by Rule 606 reports is not as meaningful in the context of today’s markets and
23

In the absence of a Commission rule, some institutional customers today have taken steps
to acquire more information about the nature and number of venues to which their orders are
routed or exposed. 42 For example, some institutional customers, using detailed questionnaires,
request and receive information regarding order routing strategies used by their broker-dealers

that Commission staff should determine the types of statistics to add in order to improve
usefulness of the reports); from Dan Mathisson, Managing Director, Credit Suisse
Securities (USA) LLC, dated April 21, 2010 (“Credit Suisse Letter”), at 9 (stating that
equity markets have changed unequivocally since 2000 when Rule 606 was adopted
resulting in a need to update the Rule 606 reports); from Karrie McMillan, General
Counsel, Investment Company Institute, dated April 21, 2010 (“ICI Letter”), at 8 (stating
that currently institutional investors do not have ready access to complete information
about their orders and the Commission should consider means to require new disclosures
or enhance existing disclosures); from Michael Gitlin, Head of Global Trading, T. Rowe
Price Associates, Inc.; David Oestreicher, Chief Legal Counsel, T. Rowe Price
Associates, Inc.; and Christopher P. Hayes, Sr. Legal Counsel, T. Rowe Price Associates,
Inc., dated April 21, 2010 (“T. Rowe Price Letter”), at 3 (supporting interest in
revamping Rule 606 reports to provide additional data related to trading volumes and
venues to both large and small investors); from Jennifer S. Choi, Assistant General
Counsel, Investment Adviser Association, dated April 20, 2010 (“IAA Letter”), at 4
(stating the exclusion of large orders from Rule 606 reports limits the value of such
reports to institutional investors); from Seth Merrin, Chief Executive Officer, Liquidnet;
Howard Meyerson, General Counsel, Liquidnet; and Vlad Khandros, Corporate Strategy,
Liquidnet, dated March 26, 2010 (“Liquidnet Letter”), at 2 (stating that institutional and
retail investors do not have sufficient information regarding how their orders are handled,
and empowering institutional traders with appropriate disclosures regarding the handling
of large orders will empower institutions to make the best decisions for their customers).
The Commission also received one letter relevant to this proposal in response to requests
for comment on Securities Exchange Act Release No. 76474 (November 18, 2015), 80
FR 80997 (December 28, 2015) (File No. S7-23-15) (“NMS Stock ATS Proposing
Release”) (comment letter available at http://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-2315/s72315.shtml). See Letter to Secretary, Commission, from David M. Weisberger,
Managing Director, Markit, dated April 15, 2016 (“Markit Letter”), at 6-7 (stating order
routing statistics required under Rule 606 should be enhanced to include basic metrics of
execution quality for all categories of executed orders, separately report on routed and
executed orders broken down by marketability, report on unexecuted routed orders,
quantify net fees paid and rebates received by marketability category, and standardize the
interpretation of “directed order”). A discussion of the letters relevant to this proposal is
below. See infra Section II.F.
42

See Associations Letter, supra note 5, at 2.

24

and the venues to which their broker-dealers route orders. In addition, more sophisticated
institutional customers often request and receive granular data about the handling of individual
orders. 43 The level of detail of the information provided by broker-dealers tends to vary
depending on both the broker-dealer and the particular institutional customer, some of which
may have the ability and desire to digest and evaluate voluminous individual order handling
information and some of which may not. Of concern to the Commission, however, is the risk
that some smaller institutional customers may not have the bargaining power to demand relevant
order handling information from their broker-dealers. The Commission also understands that
while some broker-dealers are willing and able to provide order handling information, the nonstandardized and non-transparent nature of the data limits its effectiveness. Moreover, from the
standpoint of the broker-dealers, responding to different institutional customers could be timeconsuming and costly, as the broker-dealers typically need to prepare custom responses to
different questions from each institutional customer who requests order handling information. 44
Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily believes that by requiring standardization of such
reports, order handling data could potentially be generated in a more efficient and cost-effective
manner, and provided as a matter of course to the benefit of all institutional customers.

43

See, e.g., Memorandum from the Division of Trading and Markets regarding a March 4,
2011, meeting with representatives of Morgan Stanley with regard to the Concept
Release on Equity Market Structure, dated May 7, 2011 (“TM Memo re Morgan Stanley
I”).

44

The Commission acknowledges that some institutional customers, particularly those that
are larger and more sophisticated, may continue to request a customized report, even with
the availability of standardized reports. The Commission understands that broker-dealers
may respond to such requests for competitive reasons or provide such benefits as a
service to its customers. Accordingly, the potential cost and time savings benefits of
standardized reports would be reduced for these broker-dealers.

25

2.

Assessing Best Execution

Broker-dealers have a variety of types of institutional customers that use their order
routing services, including pension funds, mutual funds, investment advisers, insurance
companies, investment banks, and hedge funds. 45 Due to the large size in which they trade,
institutional customers generally are focused on ensuring that their broker-dealers are achieving
best execution for their orders. Broker-dealers are legally required to obtain best execution of all
customers’ orders. 46 FINRA rules specifically require FINRA members to use reasonable
diligence to ascertain the best market for the security, and to buy or sell in that market so that the
resultant price to the customer is as favorable as possible under prevailing market conditions. 47
Under FINRA’s rules, some of the factors a FINRA member must consider in determining
whether it has used “reasonable diligence” are: (1) the character of the market for the security,
such as the price, volatility, relative liquidity, and pressure on available communications; (2) the
size and type of transaction; (3) the number of markets checked; (4) the accessibility of the
quotation; and (5) the terms and conditions of the order which result in the transaction. 48
Some institutional customers have direct relationships with their broker-dealers, whereas
other institutional customers, such as mutual funds and pension funds, often employ investment

45

See supra note 1.

46

A broker-dealer’s duty of best execution derives from common law agency principles and
fiduciary obligations, and is incorporated in self-regulatory organization rules and,
through judicial and SEC decisions, the antifraud provisions of the federal securities
laws. See Regulation NMS Adopting Release, supra note 16, at 37538. FINRA has
codified a duty of best execution into its rules. See FINRA Rule 5310. Accordingly,
violations by a broker of its duty of best execution expose the broker to potential liability
under the antifraud provisions of the Exchange Act as well as potential discipline under
applicable self-regulatory organization rules.

47

See FINRA Rule 5310(a)(1) (Best Execution and Interpositioning).

48

Id.

26

advisers to buy and sell securities on their behalf. Investment advisers are fiduciaries to their
clients (e.g., mutual funds, pension funds) and have an obligation to act in the best interests of
their clients. 49 Several obligations flow from an investment adviser’s fiduciary duties, including,
among other things, the obligation to seek best execution of clients’ transactions where the
investment adviser has the authority to select broker-dealers to execute client transactions. 50 As
discussed above, however, the Commission preliminarily believes it has become more
challenging in today’s highly automated, complex, and dispersed markets for institutional
customers and their advisers, in the absence of additional, standardized disclosure, to monitor the
extent to which their broker-dealers are achieving best execution.
Today, broker-dealers are not required by rule to disclose specific order handling
information regarding institutional orders. Instead, as noted above, the order handling
information obtained by institutional customers is the subject of individualized negotiations with
their broker-dealers, with the result that only a subset of institutional customers obtain order
handling information and the scope of the information received varies widely. Accordingly,
49

See, e.g., Section 206(2) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 that prohibits an
investment adviser from engaging in any transaction, practice, or course of business,
which operates as a fraud or deceit upon any client or prospective client. As such,
investment advisers must act in “utmost good faith,” provide full and fair disclosure of all
material facts, and employ reasonable care to avoid misleading clients and prospective
clients. SEC v. Capital Gains Research Bureau, Inc., 375 U.S. 180, 194, 201 (1963).

50

See Interpretive Release Concerning the Scope of Section 28(e) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 and Related Matters, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 23170
(April 23, 1986). An investment adviser must seek to obtain the execution of client
transactions in such a manner that the client’s total cost or proceeds are the most
favorable under the circumstances. In particular, when seeking best execution, an adviser
should consider the full range and quality of a broker’s services when selecting brokerdealers to execute client trades, including, among other things, the broker’s execution
capability, commission rate, financial responsibility, responsiveness to the adviser, and
the value of any research provided. See id. See also Delaware Mgmt. Co., 43 SEC 392,
396 (1967).

27

institutional customers and their advisers today monitor broker-dealers for best execution with
substantially different levels of information, and potentially with varying degrees of
effectiveness. For example, larger institutional customers may be better able to leverage their
market size and position to obtain more detailed and complete disclosures from their brokerdealers, whereas smaller institutional customers may lack sufficient bargaining power to do so.
The Commission preliminarily believes that requiring enhanced order handling
disclosures for all institutional orders would not only place small institutional customers on a
more level playing field with large institutional customers, but also would create a uniform
baseline for all institutional customers to obtain information on how large orders are handled.
Widespread institutional access to standardized information could help institutional customers to
more effectively assess the performance of their broker-dealers in handling their orders. This, in
turn, could help improve the quality of broker-dealer routing practices, by, among other things,
introducing more competitive forces so that broker-dealers are actively competing with each
other to offer routing services that minimize information leakage and mitigate conflicts of
interest.
3.

Conflicts of Interest

The Commission has recognized that in a market structure with many competing trading
centers, broker-dealers play a critical role in deciding where to route a customer’s non-directed
orders. 51 The Commission also has noted that a competitive environment may spur a trading
center to offer economic incentives to broker-dealers to induce the routing of order flow to that
trading center. 52 The Commission has recognized that broker-dealer order routing practices can
51

See Fragmentation Release, supra note 17, at 10582.

52

Id.

28

significantly affect the competition among markets, and in adopting Rule 606 noted that the
purpose of requiring disclosures concerning the relationships between a broker-dealer and the
venues to which it routes orders was to inform customers to potential conflicts of interest that
may influence the broker-dealer’s order routing practices. 53 The Commission further explained
that providing quantitative data to customers would provide them a clearer understanding of a
broker-dealer’s order routing practices. 54 While these previous statements were made in the
context of retail order routing, the Commission preliminarily believes they are equally applicable
to institutional order routing in today’s equity market.
There are a number of potential conflicts of interest that arise for broker-dealers in the
handling of institutional orders that may influence their order routing practices. One potential
conflict of interest a broker-dealer may face in the handling of institutional orders involves the
different pricing structures of trading centers. A prevalent pricing model in the current market
structure is the so-called “maker-taker” model, which involves the use of access fees and
rebates. 55 To incentivize market participants to provide liquidity, a trading center employing a
maker-taker fee structure generally pays a per-share rebate to its members or participants to
encourage them to display non-marketable liquidity-providing orders on its limit order book. If
53

See Rule 606 Predecessor Adopting Release, supra note 15, at 75427. The Commission
has historically taken a disclosure-based approach when addressing conflicts of interest
that arise from economic and other incentives provided to broker-dealers to induce the
routing of order flow to a trading center, rather than prohibiting such incentives. See,
e.g., id.

54

See id.

55

See, e.g., Memorandum from the SEC Division of Trading and Markets to the SEC
Equity Market Structure Advisory Committee (October 20, 2015) (“Maker-Taker
Memo”), available at https://www.sec.gov/spotlight/emsac/memo-maker-taker-fees-onequities-exchanges.pdf. See also Stanislav Dolgopolov, The Maker-Taker Pricing Model
and Its Impact on Securities Market Structure, 8 Va. L. & Bus. Rev. 231, 232-33 (June
27, 2014) (“Dolgopolov”), available at http://bit.ly/1mfme9M.

29

an execution occurs, the broker-dealer placing the liquidity-providing order (the “maker”)
generally receives a rebate. In contrast, the marketable order that removes liquidity (the “taker”)
generally is charged a slightly higher fee, to fund the rebate to the maker and provide a profit for
the trading center. 56
Broker-dealers that are members of an exchange or participants of an ATS with a makertaker model pay fees to, and receive rebates from, the venue for each order, including an
institutional order, that is executed on it, but generally do not directly pass those fees or rebates
back to their institutional customers. 57 In situations where a broker-dealer can earn a rebate or
pay a lesser fee for routing its customer’s orders to a particular venue, a conflict of interest may
exist between the broker-dealer’s duty of best execution and its own direct economic interest. 58
Understanding how a broker-dealer manages this conflict of interest to ensure that its own self56

In contrast to the widespread typical maker-taker model described above, a few trading
venues have adopted an inverted taker-maker pricing model, in which market participants
are assessed a fee to provide liquidity in securities and provided a rebate to remove
liquidity in securities. See, e.g., NASDAQ OMX BX Fee Schedule (as of September
2015).

57

See, e.g., Robert Battalio, Shane A. Corwin, and Robert Jennings, Can Brokers Have it
All? On the Relation between Make-Take Fees and Limit Order Execution Quality, at 3
(March 31, 2015) (“Battalio, Corwin, and Jennings Paper”), available at
http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2367462.

58

See, e.g., Maker-Taker Memo, supra note 55, at 16. Finance professors Robert Battalio,
Shane Corwin, and Robert Jennings’ analysis of selected market data has suggested that a
significant number of retail firms route non-marketable orders to the venue offering the
highest rebate, and do so in a manner that the authors felt might not be consistent with the
brokers’ duty of best execution. See Battalio, Corwin, and Jennings Paper, supra note 57,
at 31. Payment for order flow, including payments made to retail brokers from wholesale
broker-dealers, presents a similar conflict of interest. The sale of order flow has been
described by some industry participants as a revenue center that permits firms to receive
payments from market makers for such order flow when they would otherwise have to
pay taker fees. See, e.g., Letter to Joseph Dear, Chairman, Investor Advisory Committee,
SEC from Joseph Saluzzi and Sal Arnuk, Partners and Co-founders, Themis Trading
LLC, dated January 27, 2014, available at https://www.sec.gov/comments/265-28/2652855.pdf, at 2.

30

interest does not compromise its best execution obligations is pertinent to institutional customers
in evaluating execution quality. 59
For example, with respect to non-marketable orders, the trading centers that pay the
highest rebate for providing liquidity generally charge the highest fee for removing liquidity. 60
These venues are generally lower on the routing table 61 for broker-dealers seeking to remove
liquidity due to the high take fee. 62 Thus, if a broker-dealer places an order seeking to provide
liquidity at such a venue, the order may not receive an execution (or receive an execution only
when the market moves against the order) due to the venue’s low position on routing tables for
removing liquidity because of the venue’s high take fee. High rebate venues also are likely to
attract a large number of non-marketable orders, so that the customer queue position, and
likelihood of execution, may be lower than on low rebate venues.
A similar conflict of interest may exist for marketable orders. 63 Broker-dealers may seek
to minimize trading costs by first routing orders to trading centers with the lowest take fees.
However, these venues are likely to offer liquidity providers relatively low rebates so the
available liquidity may be less than at a high rebate venue. Accordingly, the liquidity available

59

See, e.g., Maker-Taker Memo, supra note 55, at 18. This conflict may present itself
despite the obligation of FINRA members to conduct a regular and rigorous review of
their order routing to evaluate which trading venues offer the most favorable terms of
execution, including execution price, execution speed, and the likelihood that the trade
will be executed. See, e.g., FINRA Rule 5310, Supplementary Material .09(b).

60

See, e.g., Maker-Taker Memo, supra note 55, at 18.

61

Routing table refers to a broker-dealer’s automated process for determining the specific
trading venues to which a broker-dealer routes orders and the sequence in which the
orders are routed.

62

See, e.g., Battalio, Corwin, and Jennings Paper, supra note 57, at 1; Maker-Taker Memo,
supra note 55, at 18.

63

See, e.g., Maker-Taker Memo, supra note 55, at 19.

31

to a marketable order routed to a low rebate venue may offer less size or fewer opportunities for
price improvement than may be available at high rebate venues. Even where the broker-dealer
ultimately routes a marketable order to other high take fee venues, prices can move quickly in
today’s highly automated, electronic markets, and broker-dealers may miss trading opportunities
for an institutional customer by prioritizing low take fee venues in their routing tables.
Another potential conflict of interest may arise when a broker-dealer internalizes order
flow, 64 routes order flow to affiliated venues, or routes order flow to venues with which it has
payment for order flow arrangements. While constrained by its best execution obligation, a
broker-dealer still may be incentivized to internalize customer order flow or route to an affiliated
venue so that it can benefit from the execution by, among other things, capturing the trading
profits or transaction fees. Internalization or execution at affiliated venues, however, may not
offer the most favorable terms of execution. Likewise, a broker-dealer may be incentivized to
first route customer order flow to venues with which it receives payment for order flow. Again,
execution at such venues may not maximize the best execution opportunities of institutional
orders. Accordingly, opportunities for internalization, or execution at affiliated venues or those
with which the broker-dealers has payment for order flow arrangements, create additional
potential conflicts of interest between the broker-dealer’s duty of best execution and its own
direct economic interest. 65

64

Internalization is the process in which a broker-dealer fills an order to buy a security from
its own inventory, or fills an order to sell by taking a security into its inventory.

65

The Commission notes that it recently proposed amendments to the regulatory
requirements in Regulation ATS of the Exchange Act applicable to certain ATSs that
would require detailed public disclosures about the trading operations of the ATS and the
activities of the broker-dealer that operates the ATS and its affiliates. See NMS Stock
ATS Proposing Release, supra note 41.

32

As discussed further below, the Commission preliminarily believes these conflicts of
interest could be better evaluated if institutional customers had access to additional information
about their broker-dealers’ order handling practices.
4.

Information Leakage

The Commission has acknowledged “the need of investors executing large size trades to
control the information flow concerning their transactions.” 66 Executing a large order in today’s
complex electronic markets poses many of the same issues and risks for institutional customers
as existed in the manual markets they replaced, but also poses new challenges because of the
variety of ways in which information leakage can occur in today’s equity market structure. As a
result, it continues to be challenging for institutional customers to trade in large size while
minimizing the risks from information leakage. As noted above, institutional customers
historically would use exchange floor brokers or upstairs block positioners to execute large
orders. 67 In today’s electronic markets, however, the manual handling of institutional orders is
increasingly rare, and has been replaced by sophisticated institutional order execution algorithms
and smart order routing systems. At the same time, sophisticated market participants closely
monitor order and execution activity throughout the markets, looking for patterns that signal the
existence of a large institutional order, so that they can use that information to their trading
advantage.

66

See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 60997 (November 13, 2009), 74 FR 61208,
61219 (November 23, 2009) (“Regulation of Non-Public Trading Interest Proposing
Release”). For example, Rule 604(b) of Regulation NMS exempts specialists and overthe-counter market makers from displaying customer block size orders. See 17 CFR
242.604(b)(4). A block size order is an order of at least 10,000 shares or for a quantity of
stock having a market value of at least $200,000. 17 CFR 242.600(b)(9).

67

See supra notes 34-35 and accompanying text.

33

Each time an order is routed to a venue, and each time an actionable indication of interest
is sent to a market participant, information is revealed about that order and the potential
existence of a larger institutional order from which it may be derived. Accordingly, brokerdealers must balance the need to sufficiently expose the customer’s trading interest to achieve
execution, with the risk that such exposure might cause prices to move in a less favorable
direction to the detriment of execution quality. Indeed, institutional customers have expressed
concern that excessive routing 68 of their orders may increase the risk of information leakage
without a commensurate benefit to execution quality. 69 Because information leakage may lead
to higher execution costs for large size orders, the Commission preliminarily believes that
additional disclosure would inform investors as to whether a broker-dealer’s order routing
strategy is potentially resulting in excessive routing and information leakage. As noted above,
the Commission preliminarily believes that institutional order handling now has become more
susceptible to the type of standard disclosures originally contemplated by Rule 606, and
technological developments have made it easier for broker-dealers to produce it. Accordingly,
standardized order handling disclosures should improve the ability of institutional customers to
assess the potential risk of information leakage of their orders through a more detailed
assessment of the number and types of venues to which their broker-dealers are routing their

68

In this context, excessive routing occurs when an order is routed more than may be
necessary to obtain full execution of the order. Each additional route of an order reveals
information about that order.

69

See, e.g., Jacob Bunge, A Suspect Emerges in Stock-Trade Hiccups: Regulation NMS,
Wall Street Journal, January 27, 2014 (“Bunge Article”), available at
http://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424052702303281504579219962494432336
(noting that in order to purchase 2.5 million shares of a stock, an institutional investor’s
brokers had to offer to purchase 750 million shares of the stock).

34

orders or transmitting actionable indications of interest, and the quality of executions that result
therefrom.
The Commission preliminarily believes that the amendments to Rule 606 it is proposing
today would help institutional customers more efficiently and effectively operate in the current
equity market structure. As discussed in more detail below, the required disclosures would
provide standardized information for institutional customers so that they can better: (1) discern
where their orders are exposed, routed, and executed; (2) assess their broker-dealers for best
execution by examining order execution statistics; (3) monitor conflicts of interest of their
broker-dealers with the additional financial incentives disclosures; and (4) assess information
leakage with the routing of their orders.
D.

Need for Public Reporting of Aggregated Institutional Order Information

As discussed above, there are no legal requirements for a broker-dealer to disclose
institutional order handling information to its customers, either privately or publicly. The
Commission preliminarily believes that the dearth of public information about each brokerdealer’s institutional order handling practices may make efficient and effective comparisons
about the nature and quality of services offered by broker-dealers more difficult. Without
required public disclosure of aggregated institutional order handling information, institutional
customers do not have information that could be used to evaluate, among other things, the
venues to which broker-dealers route orders, the execution quality achieved at such venues, and
the overall fees paid and rebates received for such executions. Public information on a brokerdealer’s institutional order handling practices could both assist institutional customers in
selecting one or more broker-dealers for order routing services and foster increased competition
among broker-dealers to provide order routing services. Indeed, if institutional order handling

35

information were publicly available to review and analyze, the Commission preliminarily
believes that additional competitive forces could be brought to bear on broker-dealer institutional
order routing services, thereby potentially enhancing the quality of such services. 70
E.

Need for Enhanced Disclosures for Retail Orders

As discussed above, the U.S. equity markets have evolved in recent years to become
more automated, dispersed, and complex, and the resulting competition among trading centers
has intensified practices to attract order flow, including retail order flow. Historically, trading
centers have offered payment for order flow or other financial inducements to broker-dealers
based upon whether the retail order flow is marketable or non-marketable. As a result, brokerdealers generally handle marketable and non-marketable retail orders differently. Indeed,
whether a retail order is marketable or non-marketable will often determine where the brokerdealer routes the order. Certain broker-dealers route a large portion of marketable retail orders to
OTC market makers with whom they have payment for order flow or other arrangements. 71
Non-marketable retail orders, on the other hand, are more frequently routed to exchanges with a
“maker-taker” fee schedule, to capture a rebate when the non-marketable order is executed. 72
70

In adopting Rule 606 in 2000, the Commission stated that public disclosure of order
execution and order routing information could provoke more vigorous competition on
execution quality and order routing performance. See Rule 606 Predecessor Adopting
Release, supra note 15, at 75417.

71

See Concept Release on Equity Market Structure, supra note 2, at 3606 (noting that Rule
606 statistics reveal that brokers with significant retail customer accounts send the great
majority of non-directed marketable orders to OTC market makers that internalize
executions, often pursuant to payment for order flow arrangements).

72

As an example, during a fiscal quarter one large retail broker-dealer routed all nonmarketable orders to one of two venues that “offered the highest rebates available in the
market.” See Conflicts of Interest, Investor Loss of Confidence, and High Speed Trading
in U.S. Stock Markets: Hearing Before the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations of
the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, U.S. Senate, 113th
Cong. 48 (2014) (“Senate PSI Hearing”) (testimony of Steven Quirk, Senior Vice
36

Currently, Rule 606(a) does not require broker-dealers to segment their quarterly
disclosures for limit orders between marketable and non-marketable orders. By only showing
aggregated data on retail limit orders, customers have less visibility into the extent to which
broker-dealers differentiate between marketable and non-marketable limit orders in their routing
practices, and, if so, the potential impact of such practices. Accordingly, the Commission
preliminarily believes that customers could better evaluate execution quality and potential
conflicts of interest if broker-dealers were required to separately disclose more comprehensive
information about how they route marketable and non-marketable limit orders to individual
trading centers.
In addition, financial inducements to attract order flow from broker-dealers that handle
retail orders have become more prevalent and for some broker-dealers such inducements may be
a significant source of revenue. 73 The Commission understands that most broker-dealers that
handle a significant amount of retail orders receive payment for order flow in connection with
the routing of retail orders or are affiliated with an OTC market maker that executes the orders. 74

President, TD Ameritrade). In addition to fee incentives that may affect routing
decisions, another reason non-marketable retail orders may be routed to exchanges is the
requirements of Rule 604 of Regulation NMS. Rule 604 of Regulation NMS requires,
among other things, exchange specialists and OTC market makers to immediately display
in their bid or offer both the price and the full size of each customer limit order that
would improve their quoted price in a particular security. See 17 CFR 242.604.
73

See, e.g., Bradley Hope and Julie Steinberg, Payments to Big Brokers Under Fresh
Scrutiny, Wall Street Journal, June 13, 2014, available at
http://blogs.wsj.com/moneybeat/2014/06/13/payments-to-big-brokers-under-freshscrutiny/ (stating that TD Ameritrade received $236 million in payment for order flow in
2013; that a spokesman for Charles Schwab Corporation estimated payment for order
flow revenues of $100 million in 2013; and that E*Trade Financial Corporation stated in
a regulatory filing it received $72.5 million in such revenues in 2013).

74

Id.

37

The Commission preliminarily believes that providing market participants with greater
disclosure regarding the specific financial inducements received by a broker-dealer from various
trading centers would enable market participants to better assess potential conflicts of interest its
broker-dealers face when routing retail orders.
Under the quarterly disclosure obligations in current Rule 606(a), broker-dealers are
required to discuss the material aspects of their relationship with each Specified Venue,
including a description of any arrangement for payment for order flow or profit-sharing
relationship. The current disclosure informs the market participants of a potential conflict of
interest the broker-dealer may face, but the current rule does not require the broker-dealer to
disclose specifics on the conflict, including financial inducements received from each Specified
Venue, or transaction rebates received from exchanges and other trading centers. 75 The lack of
detailed disclosure on the specifics of the financial inducements received from each Specified
Venue make it more difficult for customers to assess a broker-dealer’s management of any
conflict of interest and the quality of its broker-dealer’s routing and execution services.
Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily believes that requiring broker-dealers to
report more detailed disclosure on the payments received and fees paid for marketable limit
orders, non-marketable limit orders, and other order types at each Specified Venue would enable
market participants to better assess the extent to which the broker-dealer is effectively managing
the potential conflicts of interest, as well as the quality of their broker-dealer’s retail order
routing and execution services. The Commission also preliminarily believes that the description
of any payment for order flow arrangements and profit-sharing relationships required to be

75

See Rule 606(a); see also Rule 606 Predecessor Adopting Release, supra note 15, at
75427.

38

disclosed in the quarterly report should be more comprehensive. As such, the Commission
preliminarily believes that it would be appropriate to require broker-dealers to describe in their
quarterly disclosure any terms of payment for order flow arrangements and profit-sharing
relationships with each Specified Venue that may influence their order routing decisions.
Separately, in adopting Rule 606, the Commission required that retail routing reports be
divided into three separate sections for NMS stocks listed on: NYSE, NASDAQ, and American
Stock Exchange LLC. 76 The listing markets are now dominated by electronic trading and the
handling of NMS stocks no longer varies materially based on the primary listing market. 77 As
such, the Commission preliminarily believes that the requirement to separate the retail routing
reports by primary listing market is outdated and does not provide useful information to
customers. Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily believes that requiring retail routing
reports to disclose the required information for NMS stocks as a whole would better inform
market participants about the manner in which retail orders are routed in today’s markets and
should simplify the burdens to comply with the rule.

76

See Rule 606 Predecessor Adopting Release, supra note 15. The American Stock
Exchange is now known as NYSE MKT LLC. In October 2008, the American Stock
Exchange LLC was renamed “NYSE Alternext US LLC.” See Securities Exchange Act
Release No. 58673 (September 29, 2008), 73 FR 57707 (October 3, 2008) (SR-Amex2008-62). In March 2009, NYSE Alternext US LLC was renamed “NYSE Amex LLC.”
See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 59575 (March 13, 2009), 74 FR 11803 (March
19, 2009) (SR-NYSEALTR-2009-24). In May 2012, NYSE Amex LLC was renamed
“NYSE MKT LLC.” See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 67037 (May 21, 2012),
77 FR 31415 (May 25, 2012) (SR-NYSEAmex-2012-32).

77

See Letter to Secretary, Commission, from Manisha Kimmel, Managing Director,
Financial Information Forum, dated October 22, 2014 (“FIF Letter”), at 3 (noting that
with the introduction of automated trading centers and smart order routing as a result of
Regulation NMS, order routing practices are no longer based on listing market).

39

F.

Comments on Equity Market Structure

The Commission periodically has examined the regulatory regime for order routing
disclosure. The Commission published the Concept Release on Equity Market Structure in 2010,
which requested comment on a wide range of issues. Among the issues specifically highlighted
for comment were: (1) whether Rule 606 should be updated and, if so, in what respects; (2)
whether Rule 606 reports continue to provide useful information for investors and their brokerdealers in assessing the quality of order execution and routing practices; (3) whether Rule 606
should be updated to address the interests of institutional customers in efficiently executing large
orders and, if so, what metrics would be useful; (4) whether institutional customers have
sufficient information about the smart order routing services and order execution algorithms
offered by their broker-dealers; and (5) whether a regulatory initiative to improve disclosure of
these broker-dealer services would be useful and, if so, what type of initiative the Commission
should pursue. 78
The Commission received twenty-eight comment letters 79 that directly addressed order
routing disclosures. The commenters provided a wide range of recommendations and many
commenters made multiple recommendations regarding order routing disclosures.

78

See Concept Release on Equity Market Structure, supra note 2.

79

See Letters to Secretary, Commission, from Michael J. Friedman, General Counsel &
Chief Compliance Officer, Trillium, dated November 7, 2014 (“Trillium Letter”); from
Theodore R. Lazo, Managing Director and Associate General Counsel, SIFMA, dated
October 24, 2014 (“SIFMA Letter II”); Associations Letter, supra note 5; KOR Trading
Letter II, supra note 41; FIF Letter, supra note 77; BlackRock Letter, supra note 41; from
Micah Hauptman, Financial Services Counsel, Consumer Federation of America, dated
September 9, 2014 (“CFA Letter”); KOR Trading Letter I, supra note 41; from Senator
Edward E. Kaufman, United States Senate, dated August 5, 2010 (“Kaufman Letter”);
from Greg Tusar, Managing Director, Goldman Sachs Execution & Clearing, L.P and
Matthew Lavicka, Managing Director, Goldman, Sachs & Co., dated June 25, 2010
(“Goldman Sachs Letter II”); from James J. Angel, Ph.D., CFA, Associate Professor of
40

1.

General Need to Update Rule 606

A few commenters referred generally to existing drawbacks in Rule 606 and the need for
improvements to Rule 606 without making specific recommendations. These commenters raised
concerns regarding certain conflicts of interest present in order routing practices and the
sufficiency of current disclosures under Rule 606, and stated that improvements to Rule 606
would provide more insight to investors and that the utility of Rule 606 was limited by a lack of

Finance, Georgetown University, McDonough School of Business, dated April 30, 2010
(“Angel Letter II”); STA Letter, supra note 41; NASDAQ Letter, supra note 19; SIFMA
Letter I, supra note 41; SAM Letter, supra note 41; from Eric W. Hess, Esq., General
Counsel for Direct Edge, dated April 28, 2010 (“Direct Edge Letter”); NYSE Euronext
Letter, supra note 41; from Jonathan D. Corpina, President, Organization of Independent
Floor Brokers; Jennifer Lee, Vice President, Organization of Independent Floor Brokers;
and Stephen O’Shaughnessy, Director, Organization of Independent Floor Brokers, dated
April 21, 2010 (“IFB Letter”); Wolverine Trading Letter, supra note 39; Credit Suisse
Letter, supra note 41; ICI Letter, supra note 41; T. Rowe Price Letter, supra note 41; TD
Ameritrade Letter, supra note 19; IAA Letter, supra note 41; from Alan R. Shapiro,
President and Chairman, The Transaction Auditing Group, Inc., dated April 19, 2010
(“TAG Letter”); Liquidnet Letter, supra note 41; from James J. Angel, Associate
Professor, McDonough School of Business, Georgetown University; Lawrence E. Harris,
Fred V. Keenan Chair in Finance, Professor of Finance and Business Economics,
Marshall School of Business, University of Southern California; Chester S. Spatt, Pamela
R. and Kenneth B. Dunn Professor of Finance, Director, Center for Financial Markets,
Tepper School of Business, Carnegie Mellon University, dated February 23, 2010
(“Angel Letter I”). See also TM Memo re Morgan Stanley I, supra note 43;
Memorandum from the Division of Trading and Markets regarding a May 22, 2013,
meeting with representatives of Morgan Stanley, dated May 22, 2013 (“TM Memo re
Morgan Stanley II”); Memorandum from the Division of Trading and Markets regarding
an October 1, 2015, meeting with representatives of Morgan Stanley, dated October 1,
2015 (“TM Memo re Morgan Stanley III”); Memorandum from the Office of
Commissioner Walter regarding a June 30, 2010, meeting with representatives of the
Managed Funds Association, dated July 19, 2010 (“Walter Memo”). The Commission
also received one letter relevant to this proposal in response to requests for comment on
the NMS Stock ATS Proposing Release, supra note 41. See Markit Letter, supra note 41.

41

disclosure. 80 Most commenters focused on specific recommendations to update various aspects
of Rule 606.
2.

Need for Rule 606 to be Modernized to Maintain Pace with

Technological Advances
Many commenters cited technological changes in market structure as the basis for
updating Rule 606. 81 These commenters touched upon the common theme that the disclosures

80

See IFB Letter, supra note 79, at 2 (questioning the existing inherent conflicts in the
payment for order flow practice and asking whether disclosure requirements under
existing Rule 606 are legally sufficient, and also noting that the required disclosures
under Rule 606 do not shed light on fiduciary duties); Direct Edge Letter, supra note 79,
at 2 (stating that “improvements to existing Rules 605 and 606 can be made to provide
more detailed insight to investors”); TAG Letter, supra note 79, at 3 (stating “utility of
the combination of Rules 605 and 606 to the individual investor is limited since the Rule
606 routing percentages coupled with the overall execution quality statistics in Rule 605
only give a general indication as to the results an individual investor can expect,” and
“[r]outing information and the associated material aspects of the relationship concerning
the broker’s arrangements, if any, with the various trading centers to which they route
does not provide sufficient data to assess and compare”).

81

See, e.g., NASDAQ Letter, supra note 19, at 20-21 (noting that Rule 606 has “never been
amended despite changes that have revolutionized trading and the national market
system, including the advent of decimal trading, the demise of trading floors and other
manual trading, proliferation of private linkages, adoption of Regulation NMS,
refinement of smart routers, modernization of high frequency trading and automation of
dark pools,” stating that 605 and 606 have “lagged behind technological advances that
enhance market quality and consequently render the metrics utilized in Rule 605 and 606
less useful to investors,” and questioning whether Rule 606 continues “to provide the
level of transparency necessary to exert meaningful pressure on market centers to provide
superior execution quality and routing practices.”); NYSE Euronext Letter, supra note 41,
at 12 (commenting that “as detailed in the Concept Release [on Equity Market Structure],
the U.S. equity market structure has changed substantially and, as a result, we believe
[Rule 606 has] become outdated”); see also KOR Trading Letter II, supra note 41, at 2, 5
(commenting that “[o]ver time and in particular with the adoption of Regulation NMS,
[Rules 605 and 606] became increasingly outdated,” and that Rule 606 has “eroded due
to the increasing complexity of order-types as well as speed and routing practices in
today’s marketplace”); BlackRock Letter, supra note 41, at 3 (commenting that “rising
complexity in market structure has made the existing reporting inadequate”); CFA Letter,
supra note 79, at 21 (stating “it is unreasonable to expect that given the changes in speed,
technology, complexity, and dark trading in our markets, retail investors would ever
42

required by Rule 606 had not kept pace with the technological advances that had taken place
since the Rule’s inception.
3.

Requests for Specific Information and Standardized Disclosures

Most commenters identified specific metrics that broker-dealers should disclose,
proposed model templates for disclosure, or called for disclosures to be made in a standardized
fashion. Commenters generally requested additional information regarding order type usage and
fill rates, marketable and non-marketable limit orders, and the use of indications of interest

utilize them productively”); KOR Trading Letter I, supra note 41, at 1 (noting that while
outdated, Rule 606 serves as the only current means to analyze routing behavior); STA
Letter, supra note 41, at 8 (commenting that “technological advances have made some of
the measurements in the rule less meaningful” and suggesting that Rule 606 metrics be
reviewed, amended, and updated, as needed); SIFMA Letter I, supra note 41, at 16
(commenting that in its current form, Rule 606 does not provide “useful and meaningful
comparative information to market participants, particularly individual investors, or
regulators, and that the [rule] should be either modified or rescinded in light of market
developments”); SAM Letter, supra note 41, at 7 (noting that while order handling used
to be a transparent and simple process, “transparency has been sacrificed in the name of
technological advancement and the evolution of market microstructure,” and stating that
the “enormous complexity introduced by this process has clouded order handling to the
point where even educated customers are never completely confident how or why their
orders are routed to specific venues in a specific way”); Wolverine Trading Letter, supra
note 39, at 4 (noting that “the information currently required by [Rule 606] reports is not
as meaningful in the context of today’s markets” and that Commission staff should
determine the types of statistics to add in order to improve usefulness of the reports);
Credit Suisse Letter, supra note 41, at 9 (stating with regard to Rule 606 that “equity
markets have unequivocally changed since 2000 when the rules were adopted, resulting
in the need to update the reports,” and providing the example that “the shortest execution
report time category in the reports is 0-9 seconds. In today’s trading, where market
centers have begun clocking their executions in microseconds (millionths of a second)
because milliseconds (thousandths of a second) were too slow, categorizing a 9 second
execution in the top speed category renders the reports less meaningful than intended”);
ICI Letter, supra note 41, at 7 (noting that “complexities in the current market structure
and the associated difficulties in assessing market performance for investors”); TM
Memo re Morgan Stanley III, supra note 79 (noting that “Order Handling and Execution
Disclosure Rules have not been updated to address technological advances”).

43

(“IOI”). Many commenters also requested more detailed disclosure of payment for order flow,
including fees paid and rebates received. 82

82

See, e.g., Markit Letter, supra note 41, at 6 (Rule 606 statistics should be enhanced to
include basic metrics of execution quality for all categories of executed orders, separately
report on routed and executed orders broken down by marketability, and quantify net fees
paid and rebates received by marketability category); Associations Letter, supra note 5, at
Annex A (attaching proposed template for enumerated, customer-specific institutional
order routing disclosure); BlackRock Letter, supra note 41, at 3 (stating that revised Rule
605/606 “disclosures should provide greater transparency on marketable and nonmarketable limit orders, order fill rates, sub-second execution horizons, pre-/post-trade
price movement, alternative order type usage and total fees/rebates paid or received” and
that such “metrics should also be available in a standardized template for individual
customer activity, not just at an aggregate level by broker-dealer”); KOR Trading Letter
I, supra note 41, at 5 (proposing a list of updates to Rule 606 including, et al., information
on marketable limit orders, total payments or charges to broker-dealers, reporting of the
execution venue of all orders, and require average payments to be reported out to one
one-hundredth of one penny (i.e. four decimal places)); Goldman Sachs Letter II, supra
note 79, at 10-11 (proposing disclosure of order routing information for orders that do not
receive execution); Angel Letter II, supra note 79, at 7-9 (providing sample broker
“report card” with eight metrics including percentage of orders executed inside the bidask spread); SAM Letter, supra note 41, at 7 (proposing eight categories of information
that brokers/venues should disclose, including aggregate broker-level detail regarding
specific venue market share based on both shares routed and shares executed and
“payments, rebates, fees and fee breakpoints (all costs and payment for order flow
arrangements) related to execution venues (routing broker or routing venue to venue)”);
ICI Letter, supra note 41, at 7 (proposing the Commission require improved disclosure
regarding order routing, including policies and procedures regarding the dissemination of
information about a customer’s order and trade information to facilitate a trade, including
the use of IOIs, “external venues to which a broker routes, . . . the percentage of shares
executed at each external venue, any ownership and other affiliations between the broker
and any venues to which the broker routes orders,” and “payments and other incentives
provided or received (such as rebates) to direct order flow to particular trading venues”);
TD Ameritrade Letter, supra note 19, at 7-8 (recommending, among other things, that
Rule 606 disclosures include order type categories for “ “Opening,” “Marketable Limit,”
“Odd-lot,” “Mixed Lot,” “Stop Orders” and “IOC/IOI” and “Spreads” for Options,” and
“require brokers that internalize order-flow to include additional disclosure of payments
made and overall profitability generated by the internalizing subsidiary internalizing that
order-flow”); see also Trillium Letter, supra note 79, at 3 (suggesting that “Rule 606(b)
should be enhanced to simply require brokers to disclose the unabridged order logs of
requesting customers”); SIFMA Letter II, supra note 79, at 13 (suggesting that the
Commission should consider a rule to “require broker-dealers to publish on their
websites, on a monthly basis, a standardized disclosure report that provides an overview
44

Some commenters expressed concern regarding information leakage and identified
various metrics that could help customers determine whether a broker-dealer’s routing strategy
leaves orders vulnerable to information leakage. 83 Additionally, several industry commenters

of key macro issues that are of interest to clients, potentially including: (i) venues
accessed, (ii) order types used on exchanges, (iii) order types supported on the brokerdealer’s ATS (if applicable), (iv) fill rates (including internalization numbers, if
applicable), (v) location of ATS/co-location footprint, and (vi) market data structure”);
FIF Letter, supra note 77, at 3 (suggesting that market open, market close, stop orders,
and odd lots be removed from the “other” category and listed in their own categories);
KOR Trading Letter II, supra note 41, at 2 (suggesting Rule 606 should be expanded to
mandate uniform disclosure); CFA Letter, supra note 79, at 21 (suggesting the reporting
metrics in Rule 606 “should be modernized to provide the most relevant information that
will allow market participants, regulators, and third-party analysts to assess the quality of
order execution practices”); TM Memo re Morgan Stanley II, supra note 79, PowerPoint
at 6 (suggesting Rule 606 should be modified to require standardized reports providing an
“order life cycle audit trail, not just ultimate execution or first route venue”); Walter
Memo, supra note 79, at 50-51 (the MFA suggested that Rule 606 could be updated to
require a brokerage firm to “provide statistics giving execution times along with the
percentages of orders filled at the quote, better than the quote, and worse than the quote,
for different size buckets including odd lots”); STA Letter, supra note 41, at 8 (suggesting
a “standardized set of metrics which might include revised speed of execution data,
linkages and access to markets and other measurable data the disclosure of which will
provide investors and traders with adequate information upon which to make execution
and routing decisions”); NYSE Euronext Letter, supra note 41, at Appendix I (suggesting
that the “percentage of volume routed and executed internally by a broker-dealer should
be indicated, and the criteria used in order routing decisions should be identified”); IAA
Letter, supra note 41, at 3-4 (noting the format and the presentation of information in 606
reports make the information difficult to analyze); Liquidnet Letter, supra note 41, Annex
F, at F-1 to F-3 (suggesting the Commission consider modifying Rule 606 reports to
“include data on execution quality for orders received and handled by the routing broker,
in particular, data regarding execution time and price improvement”); Kaufman Letter,
supra note 79, at 6 (suggesting generally that “brokers should be required to provide
detailed descriptions of their order-routing procedures, including information on
payments and rebates received”); TM Memo re Morgan Stanley III, supra note 79
(including a proposed venue analysis template with enumerated, specific disclosures to be
reported).
83

See, e.g., ICI Letter, supra note 41, at 8-9 (stating that broker-dealers should be required
to disclose policies and procedures to control leakage of information regarding a
customer’s order and other confidential information and policies and procedures
regarding the dissemination of information about a customer’s order and trade
45

recommended disclosing separately routing statistics for marketable and non-marketable
orders. 84
4.

Requests for Specific Disclosures for Institutional Orders

A number of commenters recommended specific order routing disclosures for
institutional customers or questioned the usefulness of the current disclosure requirements to
retail or institutional customers given that large orders are excluded from the rule. 85 Many

information to facilitate a trade, including the use of indications of interest); Liquidnet
Letter, supra note 41, at 2 (stating that if institutional investors are appropriately informed
as to how broker-dealers route their orders, they will make the best decisions as to how
their large orders should be handled).
84

See BlackRock Letter, supra note 41, at 3 (stating that revised Rule 605/606 disclosures
should provide greater transparency on, among other things, marketable and nonmarketable limit orders and order fill rates); KOR Trading Letter I, supra note 41, at 5
(proposing a list of updates to Rule 606 including requiring disclosure of statistics on
marketable limit orders and greater transparency around broker-dealer internal order
routing practices and decisions); TD Ameritrade Letter, supra note 19, at 6-7 (proposing
to change the order classification in Rule 606 disclosures to include, among other things
“Marketable Limit”).

85

See Associations Letter, supra note 5 (calling for customer-specific order routing
disclosures for institutional investors); SIFMA Letter II, supra note 79, at 13 (stating that
the Commission should require broker-dealers to provide standardized reports to
institutional clients); KOR Trading Letter II, supra note 41, at 1 (stating that the public
would be well served by “expanding Rule 606 to cover all orders and mandating uniform
disclosure”); BlackRock Letter, supra note 41, at 3 (stating that “[b]roker-dealers should
be required to provide periodic standardized reports on order routing and execution
metrics to retail and institutional investors”); NYSE Euronext Letter, supra note 41, at 12
(noting that “Rule 606 reports do not capture information concerning large block
transactions”); ICI Letter, supra note 41, at 10 (noting that Rule 606 was drafted
primarily with the interests of individual investors in mind and large-sized orders are
excluded from the rule); T. Rowe Price Letter, supra note 41, at 3 (opining that Rule 606
reports are “rarely used by institutional investors”); IAA Letter, supra note 41, at 4
(stating that the “exclusion of large orders in these [Rule 606] reports limits the value of
these reports to institutional investors”); Liquidnet Letter, supra note 41, at 2 (stating that
“[i]nstitutional and retail investors do not have sufficient information regarding how their
orders are handled” and suggesting Rule 606 be modified to “[m]andate disclosure of
specific order routing practices by institutional brokers”); TM Memo re Morgan Stanley
III, supra note 79 (suggesting that broker-dealers should be required to “[p]rovide
46

commenters called specifically for the disclosure of order routing information to institutional
customers, noting in various ways that the existing Rule 606 disclosures do not cover large
orders and as a result institutional customers may not receive meaningful information about how
their orders are routed.
5.

Comments on Actionable Indications of Interest

As noted above, some comments on the Concept Release on Equity Market Structure
called for the disclosure of information relating to a broker-dealer’s use of IOIs. 86 The
Commission has considered these comments, in addition to comments noted above on the
Regulation of Non-Public Trading Interest Proposing Release, and is proposing to define
actionable IOI. 87
As discussed below, the Commission proposes to define the term “actionable indication
of interest” (“actionable IOI”). 88 In 2009, the Commission proposed rules to regulate non-public
trading interest, 89 which described characteristics of actionable IOI. 90 The Commission received

institutional clients with mandated transparency around order handling practices in
today’s environment” including an “objective and meaningful standardized venue
analysis template”).
86

See TD Ameritrade Letter, supra note 19, at 6 (stating that the order classification status
should be changed to include IOIs); ICI Letter, supra note 41, at 8 (suggesting the
Commission consider requiring disclosure of policies and procedures regarding the
dissemination of information about a customer’s order and trade information to facilitate
a trade, including the use of “indications of interest” or “IOIs”); KOR Trading Letter II,
supra note 41, at 1 (stating Rule 606 should be expanded to include information on IOIs
on dark pools).

87

See infra Section III.A.10.

88

See proposed Rule 600(b)(1).

89

See Regulation of Non-Public Trading Interest Proposing Release, supra note 66, at
61219. Among other things, the Commission proposed to amend the Exchange Act
quoting requirements to apply expressly to actionable IOIs. See id., at 61211.

47

a number of comment letters that addressed the characteristics. 91 Most of these commenters
either noted in some form that the proposal did not expressly define “actionable IOI” or

90

“[A]n IOI would be actionable if it effectively alerted the recipient that the dark pool
currently has trading interest in a particular symbol, side (buy or sell), size (minimum of
a round lot of trading interest), and price (equal to or better than the national best bid for
buying interest and the national best offer for selling interest).” Id., at 61226.

91

See Letters to Elizabeth M. Murphy, Secretary, Commission, from Senior Vice President
– Legal & Corporate Secretary Office of the General Counsel, NYSE Euronext, dated
February 22, 2010 (“NYSE Euronext IOI Letter”); from John A. McCarthy, General
Counsel, GETCO, LLC, dated February 22, 2010 (“GETCO Letter”); from P. Mats
Goebels, Managing Director and General Counsel, Investment Technology Group, Inc.,
dated February 22, 2010 (“ITG Letter”); from Vivian A. Maese, Esq., General Counsel
and Corporate Secretary, BIDS Trading, LP, New York, New York, dated February 18,
2010 (“BIDS Trading Letter”); from Greg Tusar, Managing Director, Goldman Sachs
Execution & Clearing, L.P. and Matthew Lavicka, Managing Director, Goldman Sachs &
Co., dated February 17, 2010 (“Goldman Sachs Letter”); from Kimberly Unger, Esq.,
Executive Director, Security Traders Association of New York, Inc., New York, New
York, dated February 17, 2010 (“STA IOI Letter”); from Patrick D. Armstrong, CoPresident, Alliance of Floor Brokers, New York, New York, dated January 29, 2010
(“AFB Letter”); from Matthew K. Samelson, Principal, Woodbine Associates, Stamford,
Connecticut, dated October 23, 2009 (“Woodbine Letter”).

48

criticized the guidance. 92 A few of these commenters offered their own definitions or
understanding of an actionable IOI. 93
The Commission has considered these comments discussed in this Section II.F., and, for
the reasons set forth throughout this release, is proposing the amendments to Rules 600, 605,
606, and 607 as described herein. Moreover, as noted earlier, the Commission is proposing
amendments to other rules to update cross-references as a result of this proposal. 94
III.

Proposed Amendments to Rule 600, Rule 605, Rule 606, and Rule 607
A.

Disclosures for Institutional Orders

The Commission proposes to amend Rule 606 to require a broker-dealer that receives
institutional orders in NMS stocks to, upon request, provide customer-specific reports regarding
the venues to which the institutional orders are either routed or exposed through an actionable
92

See NYSE Euronext IOI Letter, supra note 91, at 4 (stating that the Commission should
provide clear guidance as to what constitutes an actionable IOI, perhaps in the form of a
non-exclusive list of examples); ITG Letter, supra note 91, at 3 (stating that that the
Commission should provide a more precise and predictable definition of “actionable
IOI”); BIDS Trading Letter, supra note 91, at 2 (noting the uncertainty regarding the
definition of an “actionable” IOI); Goldman Sachs Letter, supra note 91, at 2 (expressing
concern that an explicit definition of actionable IOIs will not be sufficiently broad to
encompass the evolving range of messaging and communications that might satisfy the
definition of an actionable IOI); STA IOI Letter, supra note 91, at 2 (stating that the
proposed guidance appears to deem an IOI actionable with specific mention of price,
size, or side, and that such a definition is too broad); AFB Letter, supra note 91, at 2
(noting that the Commission’s proposal does not specifically define “actionable IOI”);
Woodbine Letter, supra note 91, at 2-3 (stating that the Commission’s guidance on what
constitutes an “actionable IOI” is not clear).

93

See GETCO Letter, supra note 91, at 3 (actionable IOIs explicitly or implicitly convey
information that there is actionable trading interest in a symbol); AFB Letter, supra note
91, at 2 (an actionable IOI is a bid or offer that can be accessed by one set of market
participants that is not publicly disseminated).

94

The Commission is proposing to amend Rule 3a51-1(a) under the Exchange Act; Rule
13h-1(a)(5) of Regulation 13D-G; Rule 105(b)(1) of Regulation M; Rules 201(a) and
204(g) of Regulation SHO; Rules 600(b), 602(a)(5), 607(a)(1), and 611(c) of Regulation
NMS; and Rule 1000 of Regulation SCI.

49

IOI. 95 Such disclosures would provide a broad range of statistical data regarding the brokerdealer’s handling of institutional orders, including order routing and execution information for
those orders at each trading center in the aggregate and by order routing strategy. The disclosure
of such information would provide customers with standardized information about institutional
order routing and order execution quality and serve as a baseline for further analysis and
comparison of broker-dealers. In addition, the disclosures would assist customers in reviewing
order routing practices, assessing execution quality, managing potential conflicts of interest, and
handling information leakage. The Commission preliminarily believes that increased, uniform
transparency should assist customers in determining the quality of their broker-dealer’s services.
1.

Definition of Institutional Order in Proposed Rule 600(b)(31)

Currently, Rule 606 of Regulation NMS limits the required public disclosure of a brokerdealer’s order routing information to non-directed orders in NMS securities that are in amounts
less than (i) $200,000 for NMS stocks, and (ii) $50,000 for option contracts. 96 In proposing Rule
606, the Commission discussed the thresholds in connection with its proposed definition of
“customer order” 97 and noted that “[l]arge orders are excluded in recognition of the fact that
statistics for where orders are routed and general descriptions of order routing practices are more
useful for smaller orders that tend to be homogenous.” 98 Thus, while customers and market

95

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3).

96

See 17 CFR 242.606. See also supra note 7 and accompanying text.

97

See supra note 7 and accompanying text.

98

See Rule 606 Predecessor Proposing Release, supra note 15, at 48417. The Commission
cited the heterogeneity of larger orders, and the difficulty in effectively reducing that
heterogeneous universe into summary statistics, as the primary reason for excluding those
orders from the coverage of the Rule. See supra notes 21 and 22 and accompanying text.
Today, institutional orders are still not homogenous; however the manner in which they
are handled has become increasingly systematized, thus making it more practical to
50

participants have access to publicly-available order execution quality statistics and order routing
information for small orders pursuant to Rule 605 and 606 of Regulation NMS, 99 institutional
customers have observed that there is a lack of corresponding information for larger orders.
To facilitate enhanced transparency around the handling of larger orders in NMS stocks,
the Commission is proposing to amend Rule 600 to include a definition of “institutional
order.” 100 Specifically, under proposed Rule 600(b)(31) of Regulation NMS, an institutional
order would be defined as an order to buy or sell a quantity of an NMS stock having a market
value of at least $200,000, provided that such order is not for the account of a broker-dealer. 101

categorize them. The Commission preliminarily believes that the current market
structure and advances in routing and execution technology, which automatically and
electronically record order routing information, have made statistics for where
institutional orders are routed more useful and disclosure of such statistics more
practicable.
99

17 CFR 242.605-606.

100

See proposed Rule 600(b)(31).

101

As proposed, the definition of institutional order would only apply to orders for NMS
stocks, and, therefore, would not include orders in NMS securities that are options
contracts. Due to differences in the current market structure for NMS securities that are
options contracts, in particular the lack of an over-the-counter market in listed options,
the Commission preliminarily believes that the same market structure complexities do not
exist at this time to warrant the institutional order handling disclosures proposed herein.
See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 61902 (April 14, 2010), 75 FR 20738, 20740
(April 20, 2010) (stating that all orders in the listed options market are currently executed
on registered national securities exchanges). Specifically, since listed options are limited
to trading on the 14 registered options exchanges, the number of venues to which listed
options could be routed and executed is significantly less than the over 253 venues for
NMS stocks. See supra notes 31-32 and accompanying text. In addition, the brokerdealer ownership and affiliation concerns with over-the-counter venues do not exist in the
listed options market. The Commission preliminarily believes that at this time the current
listed options market structure does not present the same concerns regarding fiduciary
responsibilities, information leakage, and conflicts of interest as the market structure for
NMS stocks.

51

The proposed definition of “institutional order” is intended to complement the current
definition of “customer order.” 102 The proposed dollar threshold for an institutional order would
dovetail with the definition of “customer order” such that all orders in NMS stocks routed by
broker-dealers for their customers, whether retail- or institutional-sized, would be encompassed
by order routing disclosure rules. 103 As noted above, institutional orders are generally divided
into smaller orders and routed to various trading centers. The Commission notes that, as
discussed below, the proposed institutional order handling reports would include the routing of
all smaller orders derived from institutional orders.
The Commission preliminarily believes that defining institutional order in relation to the
dollar amount of the order is an appropriate means to differentiate between small orders that are
typically characterized as orders of $200,000 or less and larger-sized orders that are generally
categorized as orders of $200,000 or more. 104 Since “customer order” is currently defined using
$200,000 as an upper threshold, the Commission preliminarily believes that market participants
are accustomed to considering an order of $200,000 or more as an institutional order rather than
a customer order. In addition, the Commission preliminarily believes that rather than proposing
a new monetary value to define large-sized orders generally placed by institutional customers,
administration would be more straightforward for broker-dealers using a defined standard that is
commonly recognized in the industry. Therefore, the Commission preliminarily believes that the
$200,000 threshold continues to be a reasonable threshold to accommodate such distinction
102

See infra Section III.A.1.

103

See id. The Commission notes that the proposed definition of “institutional order” was
referred to as “large orders” in the Rule 606 Predecessor Proposing Release and Rule 606
Predecessor Adopting Release. See supra note 15.

104

See, e.g., 17 CFR 242.606 (defining block size with respect to an order to include an
order for a quantity of stock having a market value of at least $200,000).

52

between small orders and large orders, which are generally handled in a different manner by
broker-dealers. 105
The Commission requests comment on the expansion of Rule 606 to include institutional
orders and the definition of “institutional order” in proposed Rule 600(b)(31). In particular, the
Commission solicits comment on the following:
1.

Do commenters believe Rule 606 should be expanded to include institutional
orders? Why or why not? Should the Commission consider an alternative
approach? Why or why not?

2.

Do commenters believe it is useful or necessary to define an institutional order?
Do commenters believe that the proposed definition of institutional order should
include securities other than NMS stocks? For example, should NMS securities
that are options contracts be included? Why or why not? Should non-NMS
securities, such as securities traded only in the OTC market, be included? Why or
why not? Would including these types of securities in the definition of
institutional order be useful to institutional customers? If so, how? Please
explain and provide support for your view.

3.

Do commenters believe that dollar value is the proper criterion for defining an
institutional order? If so, is $200,000 the appropriate amount? Why or why not?
If not, should it be higher or lower? If so, what amount? Are there other order
characteristics the Commission should consider to distinguish between retail and
institutional orders, in addition to, or instead of, a dollar threshold? Should the

105

As detailed below, the Commission is proposing new disclosures in Rule 606 that would
apply to institutional orders.

53

criteria be different for different types of stocks? For example, would $200,000
capture large-sized orders for liquid or illiquid stocks, high-priced or low-priced
stocks, large capitalization or small capitalization stocks? Please explain and
provide data to support your argument.
4.

Should the Commission define an institutional order based on the number of
shares instead of a market value? Why or why not? For example, would 10,000
shares be an appropriate criterion for defining an institutional order, regardless of
dollar value? Should it be more or less? Please explain and provide data.

5.

Should the Commission require broker-dealers to make the disclosures proposed
in Rule 606(b)-(c) for all orders, irrespective of dollar amount? Why or why not?
Please explain.

6.

Should the definition of institutional order reflect a different threshold, such as
order size or market value, for various types of NMS stocks, such as common
stock and exchange-traded products? If so, what thresholds are appropriate and
for which NMS stocks? If possible, please provide data and analysis to support
your view.

7.

Should the definition of institutional order incorporate multiple metrics, such as a
certain market value of the order plus a certain number of shares for the order? If
possible, please provide data and analysis to support your view.

8.

Do commenters believe that customers should be able to designate which orders
qualify as an institutional order? For example, should a customer be able to
designate smaller orders sent to a broker-dealer as an institutional order? If so,
how would that be done? Should institutional order be defined as a combination

54

of customers designating institutional orders and a threshold, i.e., if either
requirement is satisfied, it would then be defined as an institutional order? Please
provide support for your arguments.
9.

Do commenters have alternative definitions for an institutional order, or
modifications to the proposed definition? Please explain and provide supporting
data, if possible.

10.

Instead of defining institutional order, do commenters believe that there are
alternative approaches that the Commission should consider in structuring order
handling disclosures for large orders? If so, please explain the approach in detail,
including the benefits and costs of the approach.
2.

Definition of Actionable Indication of Interest in Proposed Rule

600(b)(1)
To further facilitate the institutional order disclosure regime, the Commission proposes to
amend Rule 600 to include a definition of “actionable indication of interest.” 106 As the
Commission indicated in 2009, an actionable IOI is a privately transmitted message by certain
trading centers, such as an ATS or an internalizing broker-dealer, to selected market participants
to attract immediately executable order flow to such trading centers, and functions in some
respects similarly to a displayed order or a quotation. 107 As such, actionable IOIs can be used
by: (1) a trading center to generate trading volume, which in turn could prompt market
participants to send more orders to such venue; (2) market participants that submit orders to a
106

See proposed Rule 600(b)(1).

107

See Regulation of Non-Public Trading Interest Proposing Release, supra note 66, at
61210 (describing actionable IOIs as privately transmitted messages to selected market
participants intended to “attract immediately executable order flow” and comparing their
function to “displayed quotations”).

55

trading center to receive executions through the use of actionable IOIs to attract contra side
liquidity; and (3) a trading center to generate transaction fees from the executions.
Under proposed Rule 600(b)(1) of Regulation NMS, an actionable IOI would be defined
as “any indication of interest that explicitly or implicitly conveys all of the following information
with respect to any order available at the venue sending the indication of interest: (1) symbol;
(2) side (buy or sell); (3) a price that is equal to or better than the national best bid for buy orders
and the national best offer for sell orders; and (4) a size that is at least equal to one round lot.” 108
The Commission preliminarily believes that for an IOI to be actionable it must contain
information sufficient to attract immediately executable orders to the venue sending the
indication of interest. The Commission preliminarily believes that the four elements contained in
the proposed definition of actionable IOI (symbol, side, price, and size) are all necessary pieces
of information for an external liquidity provider to respond with an order to execute against the
order at the venue sending the indication of interest. Indeed, if one of the four elements is not
explicitly or implicitly conveyed, an external liquidity provider would not have sufficient
information to decide whether to respond to the IOI or to ensure the order it sends in response to
the IOI would be immediately executable. 109 Without the symbol, an external liquidity provider
would not know the security for which to send an order. Without the side, an external liquidity
provider would not know whether to send a buy order or a sell order. Without the price, an
external liquidity provider would not know where to price its order to ensure the order is

108

See proposed Rule 600(b)(1).

109

See Regulation of Non-Public Trading Interest Proposing Release, supra note 66, at
61210-11 (discussing the four elements of an actionable IOI and the inferences a trader
can make to reasonably conclude that the order it sends in response to the indication of
interest will result in an execution).

56

immediately executable. Without the size, an external liquidity provider would not know the
number of shares it could expect to receive from responding to the IOI.
A determination of whether an IOI implicitly conveys information – and thus contains
each of the four elements to make such IOI actionable – involves a consideration of all of the
facts and circumstances, including the course of dealing between the IOI sender and the
recipient. For example, a message that alerts the recipient that there is trading interest in a
particular symbol and side at the venue sending the IOI generally would be considered
“actionable” even though it does not explicitly specify the price and size if, through the course of
dealings, the recipient could expect to respond and receive an execution equal to or better than
the applicable national best bid or offer for at least one round lot. The Commission notes that the
proposed definition is substantively similar to the Commission’s description of actionable IOIs in
the Regulation of Non-Public Trading Release in 2009. 110
When used in the context of the proposed institutional order handling report, the
proposed definition of actionable IOI would require a broker-dealer to disclose its activity that
communicates to external liquidity providers to send an order to the broker-dealer in response to
a customer’s institutional order. The Commission preliminarily believes information about a
broker-dealer’s use of actionable IOIs in executing institutional orders will be useful to
customers assessing the broker-dealer’s order handling decisions, particularly in regards to
analyzing information leakage because, when “actionable IOIs are intended to attract

110

See Regulation of Non-Public Trading Interest Proposing Release, supra note 66. See
also supra Section II.F.5. discussing comments received and discussion relating to
actionable IOI.

57

immediately executable order flow to the trading venue,” 111 actionable IOIs “function quite
similarly to displayed quotations” 112 and thus have the capacity to communicate information
about the existence of an institutional order. In addition, as discussed in greater detail above, 113
the Commission notes that certain commenters on the Concept Release on Equity Market
Structure specifically requested that Rule 606 be expanded to require the disclosure of
information related to the use of actionable IOIs. 114 The Commission also notes that some
commenters on the Regulation of Non-Public Trading Interest Release raised concerns about the
Commission’s description of an actionable IOI, including whether the description of an
actionable IOI could be clearer and more precise. 115 A few commenters also differed on whether
the Commission’s description of an actionable IOI was too broad or not broad enough to
encompass all intended messaging activity that could result in an execution. 116 The Commission
has considered these comments. The Commission preliminarily believes on balance that, in the
context of the reporting regime proposed in this release, it remains appropriate to look to the
description of actionable IOI contained in the Regulation of Non-Public Trading Interest Release
and preliminarily believes that description would capture the necessary information to make an
IOI actionable and therefore the functional equivalent of an order. Accordingly, the Commission
is using the description of an actionable IOI contained in the Regulation of Non-Public Trading
Interest Release as the basis for the proposed definition of actionable IOI in Rule 600(b)(1) of
111

See Regulation of Non-Public Trading Interest Proposing Release, supra note 66, at
61210.

112

Id.

113

See supra Section II.F.5.

114

See supra note 92.

115

See id.

116

See id.

58

Regulation NMS. In addition, for the reasons stated below, the Commission preliminarily
believes that the proposed definition of actionable IOI captures the types of activity that would
be pertinent for customers in evaluating how a broker-dealer handles its institutional orders.
One purpose of the proposed amendments to Rule 606 is to reflect how large orders are
handled and how information is shared and dispersed among the marketplace. The Commission
has previously noted that because actionable IOIs convey similar information as an order, a
response to an actionable IOI may result in an execution at the venue of the IOI sender. 117 As
such, the Commission preliminarily believes that actionable IOIs, as proposed to be defined,
function quite similarly to an order or a displayed quotation. 118 Given this similarity, the
Commission preliminarily believes that a rule that did not capture information related to the use
of actionable IOIs in this manner would leave customers without information that could help
them have a more complete understanding of how broker-dealers handle their institutional
orders. If an IOI contains, explicitly or implicitly, the four criteria of the proposed definition of
actionable IOI, then it is the functional equivalent to an order or a quotation. Because of this, the
Commission preliminarily believes that the proposed definition of actionable IOI will capture
information that could be used by customers to better understand how broker-dealers handle their
institutional orders, particularly in regards to information leakage, and will be important to
customers in evaluating the order handling and execution practices of their broker-dealers.
Separately, the Commission notes that as a result of the Commission proposing both the
definitions of institutional order and actionable indications of interest, the Commission is also

117

See Regulation of Non-Public Trading Interest Proposing Release, supra note 66, at
61210-11.

118

See id.

59

proposing to renumber the existing definitions in Rule 600(b) accordingly, and update other rules
to change cross-references.
The Commission requests comment on the proposed definition of “actionable indication
of interest,” as well as the other proposed changes to Rule 600(b) noted above. In particular, the
Commission solicits comment on the following:
11.

Do commenters believe that a symbol is a necessary element to include in the
definition of actionable IOI? Is the side (buy or sell) a necessary element to
include in the definition of actionable IOI? Should price be an element in the
definition of actionable IOI or is it assumed that it would be equal to or better than
the applicable national best bid or offer? Is size a necessary element to define an
actionable IOI? Should an actionable IOI be defined to require only a subset of
these elements, or should any of the proposed elements be modified? If so, which
elements and why? Are there alternative definitions that would capture the
activity of a broker-dealer communicating to external liquidity providers that
should be included as part of the required disclosure? Are there other elements or
factors that the Commission should consider in the definition of actionable IOI?
Should any of the proposed elements be omitted? Why or why not?

12.

Do commenters believe that an IOI can be “actionable” even if a subset of the
elements (symbol, side, price, and size) is conveyed implicitly? Should brokerdealers be required to disclose information about actionable IOIs where one,
some, or all of the elements are conveyed implicitly? Why or why not? Would
broker-dealers be able to program automated systems to identify as actionable

60

IOIs instances in which information is being conveyed implicitly, such as through
a course of dealing between a liquidity provider and the broker-dealer?
13.

Do commenters believe there are other types of indications of interest that should
be required to be disclosed? If so, what types and how would they be defined?

14.

Do commenters believe actionable IOIs are linked to specific orders at the brokerdealer, such that when the external liquidity provider responds to an actionable
IOI with a contra-side order, the broker-dealer will be able to match both sides of
the trade?

15.

Do commenters believe that there are alternative approaches to defining an
actionable IOI? If so, please explain each approach in detail, including the
benefits and costs of the approach.
3.

Scope and Format of Reports

The Commission understands that customers increasingly are requesting institutional
order handling information to better understand and assess order routing strategies, best
execution, potential conflicts of interest, and the risk of information leakage. The Commission
understands that many broker-dealers currently respond to such requests by providing reports on
their institutional order handling to customers. However, the Commission understands that these
reports often contain non-standardized terms, and often are not presented in a uniform manner to
allow for effective comparison across different broker-dealers and trading centers. 119
The Commission preliminarily believes that requiring broker-dealers to disclose
standardized customer-specific institutional order handling information to their customers would
facilitate the ability for such customers to assess broker-dealers’ order handling practices and
119

See Associations Letter, supra note 5, at 2.

61

how such practices affect best execution, potential conflicts of interest, the potential for
information leakage, and execution quality generally. The proposed disclosures described below
effectively would set a baseline for disclosure of customer-specific institutional order handling
information that all customers, regardless of size, could receive from their broker-dealers upon
request. The Commission preliminarily believes that the proposed disclosures would provide
needed transparency into broker-dealer institutional order handling practices, and would promote
discussions between broker-dealers and customers regarding the broker-dealer’s institutional
order handling practices and the effect such practices have on execution quality. In addition, the
Commission preliminarily believes that the proposed disclosures would allow customers to better
compare institutional order handling practices across multiple broker-dealers, which should
provide a basis for more informed decision making when customers engage the order routing
services of broker-dealers.
Specifically, the Commission is proposing to amend Rule 606(b) of Regulation NMS to
require that a broker-dealer, on request of a customer that places, directly or indirectly, an
institutional order with it, disclose to such customer within seven business days of receiving the
request, a report on its handling of institutional orders for that customer that contains information
for the prior six months, broken down by calendar month. 120 The Commission preliminarily
believes that requiring broker-dealers to provide the customer-specific reports within seven
business days will ensure that all institutional customers, regardless of size, receive their order
handling information in a timeframe that would allow them to act in a timely fashion in response
to the information contained in the report. The Commission also preliminarily believes that
broker-dealers will develop technical processes to produce these reports in an automated
120

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3).

62

manner, 121 and as such, requiring a response to an individual customer request within seven
business days would not be unduly burdensome and should provide a sufficient amount of time
for broker-dealers to generate the required disclosure and respond to customer requests.
Separately, the Commission notes that the proposed requirement to provide customer-specific
institutional order handling information for the prior six months is consistent with the reporting
period currently required for customer-specific reports on retail order routing. 122 The
Commission preliminarily believes that a six-month reporting period is also appropriate for
institutional orders, as it would provide individual customers with the most recent months of
institutional order handling data and would cover the full period contained in the broker-dealer’s
last public aggregated institutional order handling report. 123
The proposed report would cover instances where an institutional order is handled either
directly by the broker-dealer or indirectly through systems provided by the broker-dealer. For
example, an institutional order would have been placed with a broker-dealer if a broker-dealer
receives an institutional order directly from a customer and works to execute the order itself, as
well as if a broker-dealer receives an institutional order indirectly from a customer, where the
customer self-directs its institutional order by entering it into a routing system or execution
algorithm provided by the broker-dealer.
The Commission notes that the proposal would require a broker-dealer to provide a report
“on request of a customer that places, directly or indirectly, an institutional order with the broker

121

See infra Section IV.A.1.

122

See Rule 606(b)(1).

123

See proposed Rule 606(c). See also Rule 606 Predecessor Adopting Release, supra note
15, at 75430 n.81 (discussing the six-month reporting period for reports on customerspecific retail order routing).

63

or dealer . . . .” 124 Accordingly, a broker-dealer must provide a report under the proposed rule to
the customer placing the order with the broker-dealer, who may be acting on behalf of others and
thus not be the ultimate beneficiary of any resulting transactions. 125 The Commission
preliminarily believes that requiring the reports to be provided to the customer that places an
institutional order with the broker-dealer is appropriate because it would require the brokerdealer to provide the report to the person that is responsible for making the routing and execution
decisions for such institutional order. For example, if an investment adviser, as the customer of a
broker-dealer, places institutional orders with a broker-dealer that represents trading interest
from multiple underlying clients of the investment adviser, the investment adviser, as the
customer of the broker-dealer, would be the sole entity to whom the broker-dealer is required to
provide a report under the proposed rule; and not the multiple underlying clients of the
investment adviser.
Separately, the Commission notes that while the proposed rule would allow a customer
that places, directly or indirectly, an institutional order with a broker-dealer to request and
receive its institutional order handling report, it would not limit the number of times a customer
could place a request. The proposed rule also would not preclude a customer from making a
standing request to its broker-dealer, whereby the customer would automatically receive a
recurring report on an periodic basis without the need to make repeated requests for its
124

See id.

125

The Commission notes that “customer” is broadly defined as “any person that is not a
broker or dealer” in Rule 600(b)(16). However, for the purposes of the proposed
amendments to Rule 606, which are to provide detailed information about order routing
and execution quality to the person responsible for assuring the effectiveness of this
function, the Commission preliminarily believes that it is appropriate to view the
customer placing the order with the broker-dealer, whether the account holder or an
investment adviser or other fiduciary, as the “customer.”

64

institutional order handling reports. However, the Commission does not intend for the proposed
rule to duplicate information the broker-dealer has previously provided the customer pursuant to
a prior request under the proposed rule. For example, if a broker-dealer provides a report to a
customer for the prior six months, and that customer requests an additional report the following
month, the broker-dealer would only need to provide a report for the latest month. In addition,
the Commission acknowledges that broker-dealers may need to configure their systems to
capture the information necessary to produce the proposed institutional order handling reports
and, therefore, may not have the ability to produce historical reports about the routing of orders
and executions that occurred before such systems are updated. Accordingly, the Commission
would not require broker-dealers to produce institutional handling reports containing information
to cover months before broker-dealers are required to comply with such rule, if adopted.
For purposes of the report, the handling of an institutional order would include the
handling of all smaller orders derived from the institutional orders. 126 As noted above,
institutional orders are generally divided into smaller orders and routed to various trading
centers. For the disclosure to be meaningful and complete, the Commission preliminarily
believes that the routing of each child order derived from an institutional parent order should be
required to be included in the report. The Commission understands that current technologies
employed by broker-dealers typically are able to track child orders and link such child orders

126

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3). The Commission notes that an order would only be
required to be included in the proposed report if it met the definition, and thus the size
threshold, of an institutional order when received by the broker-dealer.

65

back to the parent order, 127 thus minimizing burdens associated with this component of the
proposed rule.
The Commission is further proposing to require that the report be made available using
an eXtensible Markup Language (XML) schema and associated PDF renderer to be published on
the Commission’s Web site. 128 Requiring the report to be provided in XML should result in the
data in the report being provided in a consistent, structured format. XML is an open standard 129
that defines, or “tags,” data using standard definitions. The tags establish a consistent structure
of identity and context. This consistent structure can be automatically recognized and processed
by a variety of software applications such as databases, financial reporting systems, and
spreadsheets, and then made immediately available to the end-user to search, aggregate,
compare, and analyze. In addition, the XML schema could be easily updated to reflect any
changes to the open standard. The Commission preliminarily believes that requiring the report
be provided in in an XML format would provide the customers and the public (in the case of
public reports) with data about order handling practices in a format that would facilitate search
capabilities, and statistical and comparative analyses across broker-dealers and date ranges.

127

Broker-dealers have developed their own systems allowing for tracking and linking of
child orders to parent orders. Third-party software enables this, as well. See, e.g.,
Advanced Orders Panel, Interactive Brokers, available at
https://www.interactivebrokers.com/en/software/tws/usersguidebook/mosaic/advanced_o
rders_panel.htm; Viewing Child Orders, Trading Technologies, available at
https://www.tradingtechnologies.com/help/xtrader/viewing-child-orders/; Smart Order
Routing, StreamBase, available at
http://www.streambase.com/industries/capitalmarkets/smart-order-routing/.

128

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3). The Commission’s schema is a set of custom XML tags
and XML restrictions designed by the Commission to reflect the proposed disclosures in
Rule 606.

129

The term “open standard” is generally applied to technological specifications that are
widely available to the public, royalty-free, at no cost.

66

Absent this requirement, any customers or members of the public seeking to use the information
would need either to spend time manually collecting the data and manually entering the data into
a format that allows for analysis, thus increasing the time needed to analyze the data, or incur the
cost of subscribing to a financial service provider that specializes in this data aggregation and
comparison process. Further, manual entering of data may lead to errors, thereby potentially
reducing data quality and usability. By proposing to require the use of an XML format so that
the information would be more readily available, customers might be able to better use the
information to compare execution quality of broker-dealers, thereby allowing them to select
broker-dealers that are a better match to their preferences. The Commission is also proposing
that the report be provided in PDF format using the associated PDF renderer published on the
Commission’s Web site so that the report would also be provided in a human-readable format for
those customers who prefer only to review individual reports and not necessarily aggregate or
conduct large-scale analysis on the data. Like XML, PDF is also an open standard. By using the
associated PDF renderer published on the Commission’s Web site, the XML data will be
instantly presentable in a PDF format and consistently presented across filings.
The Commission seeks comment generally on the report format proposed in Rule
606(b)(3). In particular, the Commission solicits comment on the following:
16.

Do commenters believe the proposed scope of the institutional order handling
report is practicable and appropriate? Why or why not? Please explain and
provide data, if possible.

17.

Do commenters believe that it is appropriate to view the customer placing the
order with the broker-dealer, whether the account holder or an investment adviser
or other fiduciary, as the “customer” for purposes of the proposed amendments to

67

Rule 606? Should entities other than the customer placing the order with the
broker-dealer be entitled to receive the report? For example, if an investment
adviser represents multiple underlying clients, should each underlying client be
entitled to receive the report? Please explain.
18.

Do commenters believe that broker-dealers should be required to provide the
customer-specific report on institutional order handling in the proposed format?
Why or why not? Do commenters believe broker-dealers should be required to
provide the report in a structured XML format? Would such a format facilitate
comparison of the data across broker-dealers? If not, why not? Do commenters
believe broker-dealers should be required to also provide the report in an instantly
readable PDF format? If not, why not? Are there other formats or alternative
methods to provide the customer-specific reports that the Commission should
consider? If so, please explain and provide data.

19.

Do commenters believe that seven business days is a reasonable amount of time
for a broker-dealer to respond to a customer request for institutional order
handling information? If not, what would be a reasonable amount of time?

20.

The Commission notes that Rule 606(b)(2) requires that broker-dealers notify
their customers annually, in writing, of the availability of a report on the routing
of retail orders. Should the Commission include a similar requirement for a report
on the handling of institutional orders?

21.

Do commenters believe that the rule should include a de minimis exemption for
broker-dealers that receive, in the aggregate, less than a certain threshold number
or dollar value of institutional orders? Why or why not? If so, what would be the

68

appropriate threshold number or dollar value of institutional orders a brokerdealer should need to receive from all customers in the aggregate before it would
be required to provide customer-specific order handling disclosures to any
customer? Please explain and provide data, if possible.
22.

Do commenters believe that the rule should be applicable, with respect to
disclosures to any particular customer, only if a broker-dealer receives greater
than a certain threshold number or dollar value of institutional orders from that
customer? Why or why not? What would be the appropriate threshold number or
dollar value of institutional orders from a particular customer before a brokerdealer should be required to provide customer-specific order handling disclosures
to the particular customer? Please explain and provide data, if possible.

23.

Do commenters believe that the required disclosure regarding the handling of an
institutional order should include the handling of all smaller (child) orders derived
from the institutional order? Why or why not?

24.

Do commenters believe that the rule should cover institutional orders placed both
directly and indirectly with a broker-dealer? Should the rule only cover orders
placed directly with a broker-dealer? Why or why not?

25.

Do commenters believe that the rule should specify the number of times a brokerdealer is required by the rule to respond to a customer request for a report on the
handling of its institutional orders? Why or why not? If yes, what should the
number of times be? Alternatively, do commenters believe that broker-dealers
should be required to provide customers with institutional orders ongoing access
to order handling reports through a secure portal on their websites? Why or why

69

not? How would this impact broker-dealers’ compliance costs, or the
accessibility to customers of order handling reports? Please explain.
26.

As noted above, the proposed rule would not preclude customers from making
standing requests for their broker-dealers to provide them order handling reports
on a specified regular basis. Do commenters believe broker-dealers should be
required to automatically provide reports to customers with respect to their
institutional orders, without the customer making a specific request? If so, how
frequently should this information be provided (e.g., every month, three months,
six months, annually)? Please explain. To what extent would automatically
providing reports facilitate the dissemination of order handling information to
customers that might not otherwise take the time to request it? On the other hand,
to what extent would automatically providing reports require order handling
information to be provided to customers that they might not want or use? If order
handling reports are required to be automatically provided, should customers be
permitted to opt out from receiving certain information or reports in their entirety?
Should a requirement to automatically provide reports exclude customers with
only a de minimis number of institutional orders? If so, what would be an
appropriate de minimis level? How would a requirement to automatically provide
customers with reports rather than provide them upon request change the costs for
broker-dealers? Considering that broker-dealers that handle institutional orders
would need to be prepared to provide reports to customers on request, and
therefore would need to develop the technology to produce such reports in an
automated manner, what would be the incremental costs for them to run the

70

reports for all customers on a periodic basis? Would there be any benefits from
broker-dealers running the reports for all customers on a periodic basis? Would
the broker-dealer experience lower costs from manually providing the reports
solely upon request? Would other costs be involved? Please explain and provide
data.
As noted above, the Commission is proposing to require that the institutional order
handling reports be broken down by calendar month. 130 The Commission understands that
trading centers frequently change their fee structures, including the amount of fees and rebates,
to attract order flow, and such changes typically occur at the beginning of a calendar month. The
Commission preliminarily believes these changes in fee structures at trading centers may affect a
broker-dealer’s routing decisions. The Commission therefore preliminarily believes that if
customer-specific reports on institutional order handling reflected data over a longer period of
time, the aggregated information contained in the reports may not be as illustrative or as useful in
informing customers as to how fee structures potentially affected the broker-dealer’s routing
behavior.
For example, if a change in a trading center’s pricing structure occurs at the beginning of
a calendar month, and the report on a customer’s institutional order handling reflected
aggregated data for the past six months, then any change in broker-dealer routing behavior as a
result of the change in trading center pricing would be harder to detect as the change in data
would be diluted and averaged over a period of months. The Commission preliminarily believes
that by requiring the reports to be broken down by calendar month would enable customers to
better assess a broker-dealer’s institutional order handling practices and any changes in routing
130

See id.

71

behavior in response to internal or external factors. In addition, for those with a fiduciary
responsibility to monitor for best execution, monthly detail would help facilitate regular and
more precise review to evaluate whether their selected broker-dealers are providing satisfactory
execution quality.
As proposed, Rule 606(b)(3) requires that the broker-dealer’s report reflect aggregated
information regarding the handling of a customer’s institutional orders for the prior six months,
broken down by calendar month. Additionally, the Commission preliminarily believes that, if a
customer places an institutional order that identifies the particular account for which the order
was submitted, the broker-dealer would be well-positioned to provide the customer, upon
request, a report broken down by account. The Commission preliminarily believes that, because
the proposed disclosures will aggregate information to be disclosed to a specific customer across
all of the customer’s institutional orders, the risk that such disclosures would reveal sensitive,
proprietary information about broker-dealers’ order handling techniques should be minimal. The
Commission is cognizant of the concerns broker-dealers would have if such disclosures revealed
proprietary order handling techniques, and preliminarily believes that aggregated customerspecific order handling information would not enable a customer to reverse-engineer proprietary
order handling techniques.
The Commission requests comment on this proposed requirement. In particular, the
Commission solicits comment on the following:
27.

Is six months an appropriate timeframe for the reporting period for customerspecific order handling information? Would a longer or shorter time period (e.g.,
quarterly) be more appropriate? How soon after month-end should the customer-

72

specific order handling report be provided (e.g., two-weeks after the end of the
preceding month)? Please explain.
28.

Do commenters believe that aggregated information, broken down by calendar
month, is a useful format for the customer? Should the data be required to be
provided in a more granular or broader manner? For example, would it be more
useful for institutional customers to receive data about the handling of their
institutional orders on a stock-by-stock basis rather than aggregated? Please
provide support for your arguments and describe any costs and benefits associated
with an alternative format.

29.

Does aggregating of all of a customer’s institutional orders into a single report
adequately prevent sensitive, proprietary information from being revealed? If not,
why not? Could aggregated institutional order disclosures allow a customer or
competitors to reverse engineer a broker-dealer’s order handling techniques?

30.

As noted above, the Commission preliminarily believes that, if a customer places
an institutional order that identifies the particular account for which the order was
submitted, the broker-dealer would be well-positioned to provide the customer,
upon request, a report broken down by account. Do commenters believe that the
rule should require a broker-dealer to provide, upon request, a report broken down
by account, if the customer identifies the particular account for which the order
was submitted? Why or why not? Please discuss the benefits and costs with such
an account-by-account approach.

Finally, to provide a standardized format for the proposed institutional order handling
report, the Commission proposes that the disclosures regarding institutional orders a broker-

73

dealer executes internally or routes to other venues be made in chart form with certain rows and
columns of required information. 131 Specifically, the Commission proposes to require that each
report contain rows that would be categorized by venue and by order routing strategy category,
as described in more detail below, for each venue. 132 In addition, the Commission proposes to
require that each report contain certain columns of information, as described below in more
detail, for each of the required rows. 133 Thus, each report would be formatted so that a customer
would be readily able to observe their order activity at a particular venue, as further subdivided
by order routing strategy category for that venue.
The Commission preliminarily believes it is important for customers to understand the
venues where their institutional orders are exposed and executed, 134 and that segmenting the
institutional order handling report by venue would be useful for customers to understand where
their institutional orders are routed and executed. As proposed, the report would present the
order handling information in a manner that would allow customers to readily compare venues.
For purposes of the institutional order handling report, a venue would be any trading center 135 to
which an order is routed or where an order is executed.

131

See supra note 41. See, e.g., SIFMA Letter II, supra note 79, at 13 (stating that the
Commission should direct broker-dealers to provide institutional clients with
standardized execution venue reports); BlackRock Letter, supra note 41, at 3 (stating
broker-dealers should be required to provide periodic standardized reports on order
routing and execution metrics to both retail and institutional investors).

132

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3).

133

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(i)-(iv).

134

See supra note 65.

135

See supra note 3.

74

The Commission also proposes to require that the institutional order handling report be
categorized by order routing strategy category for institutional orders for each venue. 136 The
Commission preliminarily believes that order routing strategies for institutional orders can be
categorized into three general strategy categories: (1) a “passive order routing strategy,” which
emphasizes the minimization of price impact over the speed of execution of the entire
institutional order; (2) a “neutral order routing strategy,” which is relatively neutral between the
minimization of price impact and speed of execution of the entire institutional order; and (3) an
“aggressive order routing strategy,” which emphasizes speed of execution of the entire
institutional order over the minimization of price impact. 137 The Commission is not aware of
any generally accepted definitions or metrics to define these order routing strategies, and the
proposed rule does not further define these three order routing strategy categories. Rather, by
providing a general description, the Commission would afford broker-dealers flexibility to
determine how to group their various order routing strategies for institutional orders into the
three categories for reporting purposes, according to the general description provided in the
proposed rule. A broker-dealer would be required to assign each order routing strategy that it
uses for institutional orders to one of the three categories in a consistent manner for each report it
prepares pursuant to the proposed rule, and would be required to document the specific
methodologies it relies upon for making such assignments. 138 The Commission is proposing to
require every broker-dealer to preserve a copy of the methodologies used to assign its order
routing strategies and maintain such copy as part of its books and records in a manner consistent

136

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3).

137

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(v).

138

See id.

75

with Rule 17a-4(b) under the Exchange Act. 139 Once a broker-dealer’s strategies are assigned a
category, the broker-dealer shall promptly update such assignments any time an existing strategy
is amended or a new strategy is created that would change such assignment. 140
The Commission acknowledges that categorization of order routing strategies for
institutional orders would be an internal process for a broker-dealer, and, therefore, the
methodologies for such process would likely not be entirely consistent across broker-dealers,
which could result in an order routing strategy being placed in a different category by different
broker-dealers. Such inconsistency could make it difficult for institutional customers to
effectively compare institutional order handling reports across their broker-dealers. However,
the Commission preliminarily believes that the potential inconsistencies of categorization would
only occur at the margins among order routing strategies, where characteristics of the strategy
could be viewed differently by different broker-dealers. For example, one broker-dealer might
reasonably classify a mixed strategy that mostly provides liquidity as being “neutral,” whereas
another broker-dealer might reasonably categorize the same strategy as “passive.” Even if
broker-dealers differ at the margins in their categorization of similar order routing strategies, the
Commission preliminarily believes that grouping order routing strategies by these three broad
categories would still allow for meaningful comparison of order handling practices across
broker-dealers.
The Commission recognizes that customers may have different investment strategies and
provide specific order handling instructions that will affect how a broker-dealer handles an
institutional order and utilizes various venues. The Commission preliminarily believes that if it
139

See id.

140

See id.

76

were to require that the disclosures be categorized only by venue, the disclosures would contain
aggregated order routing strategy data that might be less useful in analyzing how a broker-dealer
implements the customer’s trading decisions. The Commission preliminarily believes that
disclosing the proposed institutional order handling information by category of order routing
strategy should allow customers to better evaluate a broker-dealer’s order handling practices for
orders that are handled using similar strategies.
In addition, a customer’s order handling instructions may vary at particular points in time
depending on a number of different factors. For instance, at certain times a customer may need
to quickly liquidate or acquire a position, in which case an aggressive order routing strategy may
be appropriate. At other times, speed may not be a primary concern and thus a passive order
routing strategy may be appropriate. Because these types of order routing strategies use different
methods to liquidate or acquire a position, the order routing strategies may use venues for
different purposes. The Commission preliminarily believes that disclosing the required
institutional order handling information by passive, neutral, and aggressive strategy for each
venue will provide more transparency to customers and a means to understand better which
venues are being used as part of a particular strategy. Moreover, the Commission preliminarily
believes that the three broad categories should provide a means for customers to ascertain
whether a broker-dealer in the aggregate is handling its institutional orders pursuant to its
instructions. For example, if a customer instructs its broker-dealer to use mostly passive order
routing strategies, the customer could use the institutional order handling report to monitor the
use of passive, neutral and aggressive order routing strategies during the reporting period.
Finally, the Commission preliminarily believes that, notwithstanding the limitations on
comparisons described above, categorizing the proposed institutional order handling information

77

by these three strategies would allow a customer to compare order routing strategies across its
broker-dealers.
The Commission acknowledges that broker-dealers may want to prevent other market
participants from reverse engineering their proprietary order routing strategies. Thus, the
Commission is not proposing to require broker-dealers to disclose detailed methodologies of
their order routing strategies. Rather, the Commission is proposing to require broker-dealers to
group their various order routing strategies for institutional orders into three categories 141 –
passive, neutral, aggressive – which it preliminarily believes should provide valuable
transparency to customers while not disclosing proprietary aspects of a broker-dealer’s order
routing strategies.
The Commission requests comment on its proposal that the customer-specific
institutional order handling report be categorized by venue and order routing strategy category.
In particular, the Commission solicits comment on the following:
31.

Do commenters believe that disclosure by venues and order routing strategies
would be useful to customers placing institutional orders? Are there other ways
to categorize the disclosures than by venue and order routing strategies that would
be more useful to institutional customers? If so, please explain. Should the
Commission consider other methods in providing customer-specific institutional
order handling reports? If so, please explain the alternative approach and provide
data, if possible.

32.

Do commenters believe that disclosure of order routing strategies categorized by
passive, neutral, and aggressive would be useful? Should any of these proposed

141

See id.

78

categories be modified or deleted? Are there other categories of strategies that
would be more meaningful? Please explain and provide data to support your
arguments.
33.

Are broker-dealers able to classify their order routing strategies into the three
proposed strategy categories? Are there other strategy categories that should be
considered?

34.

Do commenters believe that customers would have sufficient information to
meaningfully compare how their institutional orders were handled by different
broker-dealers in light of the fact that each broker-dealer would establish its own
categorization of routing strategies?

35.

Do commenters agree that potential inconsistencies of categorization will only
occur at the margins and grouping order routing strategies by the three broad
categories would still allow for meaningful comparison of order handling
practices across broker-dealers?

36.

Do commenters believe that broker-dealers would be able to produce their order
handling statistics in such a manner to favor one strategy over another in an effort
to enhance the perception of the services provided? If so, should modifications or
additions be made to address this? Further, please explain and provide data, if
possible.

37.

Should the Commission further define the three order routing strategies, and if so,
how? Should routing strategies be defined at all? If not, how should order
handling practices be expressed to allow for an effective comparison? Do
commenters believe that there is benefit in having the strategies listed if there is

79

no common definition among broker-dealers? Would the report still be useful to
customers placing institutional orders in evaluating their broker-dealers, but not
comparing broker-dealers? Please support your arguments.
38.

Are there other methodologies that the Commission should consider that would
allow institutional customers to meaningfully compare order handling practices
across broker-dealers? If so, please explain and provide support, if possible.

39.

Would the lack of a more precise definition for the three order routing strategies
affect the ability of broker-dealers to produce automated reports?

40.

Would the lack of a more precise definition impact the ability of customers to
compare order handling practices across broker-dealers?

41.

Would disclosing information about the use of the three order routing strategies
potentially reveal broker-dealers’ sensitive proprietary information? Please be
specific about what information and the impact of disclosure.

42.

Under the proposal, broker-dealers would be required to document the specific
methodologies they rely upon for making assignments of institutional orders to
the three order routing strategies. Should these methodologies be made available,
in the normal course or upon request, to customers and/or the public? Would
disclosure of this information be useful to customers? When a broker-dealer
changes its methodology, should it be required to notify its customers or the
public of the change, and/or should it be required to restate prior reports “as if”
such new methodology had been in place? Would such restatements be useful to
customers or potential customers? If so, how? Should such restatements be
required for certain material changes in methodology? If so, for which prior

80

reports should restatements be made (e.g., the most recently provided report)?
Even if the broker-dealer’s methodology is not provided to customers or the
public, should they be notified if and when such methodology changes? Why or
why not? Please explain. Would transparency regarding the methodologies
create risks with respect to sensitive proprietary information of the brokerdealers? If yes, please identify the specific information linked to the risk.
43.

Do commenters believe that the Commission should specify how broker-dealers
would address a misclassification of a particular order routing strategy? If so,
how should broker-dealers be required to address the misclassification? For
example, do commenters believe that broker-dealers should be required to
promptly provide corrected reports to customers and the public? Similarly,
should the Commission specify how a broker-dealer would address situations in
which it determines that any data in a previously provided order handling report is
inaccurate? For example, do commenters believe that broker-dealers should be
required to promptly furnish corrected reports to customers and/or promptly
correct any publicly available reports? Why or why not? Would the
dissemination of corrected reports be useful to customers placing institutional
orders, and if so for which prior reports would it be useful? Separately, do
commenters believe that there should be a materiality threshold for corrections to
either the misclassification of order routing strategies or any other inaccuracy in
data provided? If so, what would be an appropriate threshold? Please explain and
provide data to support your arguments, if possible. As an alternative to a
materiality standard, are there other measures that should determine whether a

81

misclassification or other inaccuracy would necessitate a corrected report? For
example, if the misclassification or other inaccuracy could impede trend analysis,
should that necessitate a corrected report? Please explain.
4.

Report Content
a. Information on the Customer’s Order Flow with the Reporting
Broker-Dealer

The Commission also proposes that the report include information on the customer’s
order flow with the broker-dealer. Specifically, the Commission proposes to require disclosure
of: (1) total number of shares of institutional orders sent to the broker-dealer by the customer
during the reporting period; (2) total number of shares executed by the broker-dealer as principal
for its own account; (3) total number of institutional orders exposed by the broker-dealer through
an actionable IOI; and (4) venue or venues to which institutional orders were exposed by the
broker-dealer through an actionable IOI. 142 The Commission preliminarily believes that this
information would be useful for customers to evaluate how much order flow the broker-dealer
received from the customer during the reporting period, the methods the broker-dealer used to
achieve executions for such order flow at the broker-dealer, the management of a broker-dealer’s
conflicts of interests, and the risk of information leakage associated with such methods.
The Commission preliminarily believes that it is important to require disclosure of the
total number of shares of institutional orders sent to the broker-dealer by the customer during the
reporting period to allow the customer to more easily compare the number of shares sent to the
broker-dealer versus the number of shares routed by the broker-dealer. As noted above, a
broker-dealer often will route orders numerous times, such that the aggregate order total may
142

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3).

82

exceed the total size of the customer’s original order flow. Although the information concerning
institutional orders sent by the customer to the broker-dealer should be known by the customer,
providing the customer with the amount of shares for the customer that the broker-dealer
received over the period covered by the report should put in context other data provided in the
institutional order handling report. Thus, the Commission preliminarily believes that a brokerdealer should be required to disclose the total number of shares of institutional orders sent by the
customer to the broker-dealer. Moreover, because many customers use multiple broker-dealers
to execute their institutional orders, requiring each broker-dealer to disclose the total number of
shares of institutional orders sent by each customer would allow customers to more readily
understand how much of their order flow was handled by a broker-dealer during the reporting
period, which should help customers in comparing the order handling reports of their various
broker-dealers.
The Commission further proposes that the report disclose the total number of shares
executed by the broker-dealer as principal. 143 While customers currently receive disclosure of
the number of shares executed by a broker-dealer as principal for each transaction pursuant to
Rule 10b-10, 144 the Commission preliminarily believes that including the total number of shares
executed by the broker-dealer as principal in the institutional order handling report, which would
be an aggregate number of every transaction for the reporting period, would be useful to the
customer so that such data would be in the same report as the other data the Commission is
143

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3).

144

See 17 CFR 240.10b-10. Further, the Commission preliminarily believes that it would be
more efficient to require broker-dealers to include this as a line item in the proposed
institutional order handling report than for customers to obtain information from the
proposed reports, obtain information from Rule 10b-10 required disclosures, and combine
the two to perform necessary analysis to evaluate order handling quality.

83

proposing to require for institutional orders. Such disclosure would allow customers to
understand how often a broker-dealer trades against its institutional orders, and what order
routing strategies lead to this type of activity. The Commission preliminarily believes that this
data on the volume of institutional orders interacting with the broker-dealer as principal could be
relevant to customers considering potential conflicts of interest their broker-dealers face when
trading as principal against their orders, and their broker-dealers’ compliance with best execution
obligations.
The Commission also proposes to require disclosure of the total number of institutional
orders exposed by the broker-dealer through actionable IOIs as well as the venue or venues to
which such orders were exposed. The Commission preliminarily believes that transparency into
the method of exposing an institutional order through the use of actionable IOIs would provide
useful information to customers. As discussed above, the Commission understands that brokerdealers may use actionable IOIs to attract trading interest from external liquidity providers. For
example, before a broker-dealer routes an institutional order to another trading center, the
broker-dealer may send an actionable IOI to select external liquidity providers to communicate
to such liquidity providers to send orders to the broker-dealer to trade with the institutional order
that is represented by the actionable IOI at the broker-dealer. While the use of actionable IOIs in
this manner by broker-dealers may be beneficial in executing institutional orders, actionable IOIs
also may reveal information that could be detrimental to the execution quality of the institutional
order. The Commission preliminarily believes that identifying the total number of institutional
orders exposed by a broker-dealer though actionable IOIs in the order handling disclosures 145
should give customers a more complete view of how their broker-dealers handle their
145

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(i)(B).

84

institutional orders and allow them to better evaluate how their broker-dealer manages
information leakage.
The Commission also proposes that broker-dealers disclose the venue or venues that were
sent actionable IOIs. Venues that receive the actionable IOIs, such as external liquidity
providers that trade proprietarily, could, but are not required to, respond to the actionable IOI by
sending an order to the broker-dealer to execute against the trading interest represented by the
actionable IOI. The Commission preliminarily believes that disclosure of institutional orders
routed to a venue would not, alone, adequately capture a broker-dealer’s order handling
practices. As such, the Commission preliminarily believes that disclosure of the specific venue
or venues that a broker-dealer exposed an institutional order by an actionable IOI would be
useful for the customer to further assess the extent, if any, of information leakage of their orders
and potential conflicts of interest facing their broker-dealers. Specifically, the Commission
preliminarily believes that such information will enable customers to assess whether their brokerdealers are exposing their institutional orders to select market participants with affiliations,
business relationships, or other incentives.
The Commission seeks comment on the disclosure of the reporting broker-dealer’s
information. In particular, the Commission solicits comment on the following:
44.

Do commenters believe that disclosing the total number shares sent to a brokerdealer would be useful to customers placing institutional orders? Why or why
not?

45.

Do commenters believe that disclosure of the total number of shares executed by
the broker-dealer as principal would facilitate understanding the broker-dealer’s
ability to manage its best execution obligations? Should additional or different

85

information be required regarding institutional orders that are executed by the
broker-dealer as principal? Please explain whether and how such additional or
different information would be useful.
46.

Do commenters believe that disclosure of the total number of shares executed by
the broker-dealer as principal would be useful to customers for purposes of
evaluating conflicts of interest? Why or why not?

47.

Do commenters believe that the institutional order handling report should disclose
the total number of institutional orders exposed through an actionable IOI? Is this
data useful for customers to evaluate their broker-dealers’ institutional order
handling practices? Why or why not? Would such disclosure guide customers in
better understanding the potential of information leakage of their institutional
orders?

48.

Do commenters believe that broker-dealers should disclose the venues to which it
sends actionable IOIs? Would this information help customers understand how
financial incentives or business relationships might impact their orders? Would
this information help customers evaluate the risk of information leakage?

49.

Do commenters believe there are other data points that would be useful to
customers that should be disclosed on institutional order handling reports? If yes,
please explain how such data would be useful to customers.

86

b. Information on Order Routing
Within the venue and order routing strategy segmentations described above, the
Commission proposes to require disclosure of information with respect to order routing. 146 The
Commission preliminarily believes that information regarding order routing and the size of
orders routed, both the aggregate and average order size, would be useful for customers to
understand where and how their institutional orders are being routed or exposed to assess the risk
of information leakage and any potential conflicts of interest on the part of their broker-dealers.
The Commission proposes to require, within each venue and strategy category, disclosure of: (1)
total shares routed; (2) total shares routed marked immediate or cancel (“IOC”); 147 (3) total
shares routed that were further routable; and (4) average order size routed. 148
Disclosing total shares routed 149 for each of the required categories would allow
customers to readily compare the total shares sent to the broker-dealer, as described above, with
the total shares routed by the broker-dealer, which would shed light on the number of shares
needed to be routed to fill the institutional orders as well as the potential for information leakage.
In addition, disclosing the total shares routed to each venue in total as well as by order routing
strategy would provide a customer with information on which venues were used in the process of
executing its institutional orders, which strategies were used for each venue, and the extent of
such use. The strategies disclosure, coupled with information on fill rates and fee models as
further described below, would allow customers to determine whether its broker-dealers are
146

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3).

147

An order marked IOC will execute immediately at a trading center if liquidity is available
at or better than the limit price of the order or otherwise will be immediately canceled.
See Concept Release on Equity Market Structure, supra note 2, at 3607 n. 69.

148

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(i).

149

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(i)(A).

87

routing orders consistent with the customer’s trading objectives. For example, if a broker-dealer
routes a significant portion of aggressive orders to a venue that pays a rebate for removing
liquidity and the broker-dealer receives a low fill rate from that venue, the customer could ask
the broker-dealer why it routes orders seeking liquidity to a venue that rarely executes those
orders and whether doing so is consistent with the customer’s trading objectives.
The proposed rule would also require disclosure of the total number of shares routed
marked IOC, 150 and the total number of shares routed that were further routable. 151 The
Commission preliminarily believes that requiring disclosure of these two order characteristics
would provide customers a greater understanding of the kind of order flow a broker-dealer sends
to each venue and how a broker-dealer uses a venue. For example, orders that are marked IOC
are orders that seek to access liquidity at a venue rather than provide liquidity by posting to the
venue’s book. If no contra side interest is available at the venue at the order’s limit price, the
order will be canceled back to the broker-dealer. A customer could compare the number of
shares routed to a venue marked as IOC with the total shares routed to a venue to understand
whether the broker-dealer allows its orders to rest on a venue’s book or is primarily seeking to
access liquidity at a venue. The Commission is also proposing to require that the broker-dealer
disclose the total shares routed that are marked IOC by order routing strategy, which would
highlight how the broker-dealer utilizes IOC orders in its various order routing strategies. For
example, a customer could assess the rate at which a broker-dealer uses IOC orders by order
routing strategy and determine if such rate is consistent with its trading objectives.

150

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(i)(B).

151

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(i)(C).

88

In addition, requiring the total shares routed that were further routable would allow the
customer to understand whether the broker-dealer allows its orders to be routed by the venue to
other venues. Such “re-routing” of orders creates the potential for information leakage every
time an order is routed on to another venue. Moreover, customers would be able to determine
whether their broker-dealers are in control of the routing of their orders or are relinquishing
control of order routing to another entity. In addition, disclosure by order routing strategy would
highlight how the broker-dealer utilizes routable orders in its various order routing strategies.
For example, a customer could assess the rate at which a broker-dealer uses routable orders by
order routing strategy and determine if such rate is consistent with its trading objectives.
Finally, the report would require the disclosure of average order size routed. 152 The
Commission preliminarily believes that requiring disclosure of the average order size routed
would provide the customer with information on the nature of a venue, how a venue is being
used by a broker-dealer, and possibly what type of participants use a venue. 153 For example, if
the average order size routed to a venue is relatively large, a customer may infer that the venue
caters to market participants that are willing to trade in larger size. In addition, a customer could
compare the average order size routed to a venue to the average fill size at the venue, as
described below, to assess the size of orders routed relative to the potential execution. If the
average fill size is relatively equivalent to the average order size routed, the customer may infer
152

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(i)(D).

153

See Laura Tuttle, Division of Economic and Risk Analysis, SEC, OTC Trading:
Description of Non-ATS OTC Trading in National Market System Stocks, March 2014,
available at http://www.sec.gov/marketstructure/research/otc_trading_march_2014.pdf
(stating that order and trade sizes can provide information on how a venue is being used
by traders, and possibly what type of participants use a venue). The Commission notes
that it recently proposed amendments to regulatory requirements in Regulation ATS that
would assist in enabling customers to obtain further detail on the nature of certain trading
centers. See supra note 65.

89

that the broker-dealer routed the order in a manner that minimized information leakage. If the
average order size routed is greater than the average fill size, the customer may infer that the
broker-dealer needed to route the order multiple times to receive full execution of the order. As
noted in Section II.C.4., each additional route of an order reveals information about that order
and such information leakage might cause prices to move in a less favorable direction to the
detriment of execution quality. In addition, disclosure of average order size routed by order
routing strategy for each venue would allow a customer to better understand the size of orders
routed by strategy and determine if such size is consistent with its trading objectives.
The Commission requests comment generally on the order routing information proposed
in Rule 606(b)(3)(i). In particular, the Commission solicits comment on the following:
50.

Do commenters believe that disclosure of the four data points (total shares routed,
total shares routed marked immediate or cancel, total shares routed that were
further routable, and average order size routed) as proposed in Rule
606(b)(3)(i)(A)-(D) by both venue and strategy is useful? Should the four data
points be defined? Are there other factors or order life cycle audit trail
information that should be included in order routing information? Should some of
the proposed factors be modified or eliminated? If so, which one(s) and why?

51.

Do commenters believe it is useful to customers to know the total shares marked
IOC and that were routed? Would the cancellation rate of orders be useful to
customers placing institutional orders? Are there other order types for which
disclosure should be required? If so, which types and why? Should brokerdealers be required to disclose all order types used to execute customer orders?
Please explain.

90

52.

Do commenters believe that orders that are not only routable, but are in fact
routed on should also be required to be disclosed? Would such re-routing
information be useful to customers in determining whether their broker-dealers
are in control of the routing of their orders or are relinquishing control of order
routing to another entity? Do commenters believe that such re-rerouting
information is retrievable for broker-dealers? Why or why not?
c. Information on Order Execution

Within the venue and order routing strategy segmentations described above, the
Commission also proposes to require disclosure of information with respect to order
execution. 154 The Commission preliminarily believes that information regarding how
institutional orders are executed, including fees paid and rebates received for executions, is
important for customers to better understand and assess broker-dealer performance. The
Commission proposes to require disclosure of: (1) total shares executed; (2) fill rate; 155 (3)
average fill size; 156 (4) average net execution fee or rebate; 157 (5) total number of shares executed
at the midpoint; (6) percentage of shares executed at the midpoint; (7) total number of shares
executed that were priced on the side of the spread more favorable to the institutional order; (8)
percentage of total shares executed that were priced on the side of the spread more favorable to
the institutional order; (9) total number of shares executed that were priced on the side of the

154

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(ii).

155

Fill rate would be calculated by the shares executed divided by the shares routed.

156

Average fill size would be the average size, by number of shares, of each order executed
on the venue.

157

The fee and rebate would be measured in cents per 100 shares, specified to four decimal
places.
91

spread less favorable to the institutional order; and (10) percentage of total shares executed that
were priced on the side of the spread less favorable to the institutional order. 158
Disclosing the total shares executed 159 would provide customers with the means to
understand how much of its order flow was executed at a particular venue and readily compare
such information across venues. In addition, since the institutional order handling report would
also be categorized by order routing strategy, disclosing the total shares executed would provide
customers with the means to understand how much of its order flow was executed using passive,
neutral, and aggressive order routing strategies at each venue. Requiring broker-dealers to
disclose the total shares executed pursuant to order routing strategies could provide customers
with more detailed information than they may currently receive from their TCA provider.
Typically, third-party TCA providers do not have access to routing information and therefore
would not be able to incorporate such information into their TCA offerings.
The Commission preliminarily believes that disclosure of the fill rate 160 would show
customers, on a percentage basis, how much of their order flow was executed compared to how
much of their order flow was routed. While customers could compute the fill rate by dividing
the number of shares executed by the number of shares routed, the Commission preliminarily
believes that it is useful for the fill rate to be disclosed in a separate column of information to
allow customers to readily compare fill rates without required computations. Such execution
information would provide customers the opportunity to assess how effective a venue is in filling
its institutional orders as well as how effective particular order routing strategies are at the

158

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(ii).

159

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(ii)(A).

160

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(ii)(B).

92

various venues. The fill rate is an important piece of execution information that helps customers
in assessing execution quality received at a trading center, given the customers’ strategy. For
example, if a broker-dealer’s aggressive order routing strategies routinely route to a venue with a
low fill rate, it could prompt a discussion between the customer and the broker-dealer to
understand the reasons why the broker-dealer favors such a low fill rate venue when using such
strategies. While the broker-dealer may be able to explain its order handling practices without
the disclosed information, there is currently very little transparency on the order handling
decisions.
The Commission notes that providing customers’ fill rate and average fill size 161 at each
venue would allow customers to assess whether their broker-dealers are routing its orders to
venues that can effectively execute the order. This information could be particularly useful to
customers in comparing their fill rate to the average fill size at each venue across its brokerdealers and across a particular broker-dealer. For example, if a broker-dealer routinely routes
orders to a venue with low fill rates, the customer could request from its broker-dealer more
details regarding such venue, such as the existence of any preexisting business relationship or
affiliation. Further, if a broker-dealer regularly routes orders with large average order size to a
venue with a high fill rate but a low average fill size, such information may indicate to the
customer that the broker-dealer might not be routing the customer’s institutional orders in a
manner designed to minimize information leakage, because the broker-dealer would need to
continue to route additional orders to fill the order. Moreover, requiring the disclosure pursuant
to order routing strategies would result in greater transparency into order handling decisions.

161

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(ii)(C).

93

As proposed, the report would provide data on the average net execution fee or rebate
(cents per 100 shares, specified to four decimal places). 162 The average net execution fee or
rebate would disclose to customers potential economic incentives a broker-dealer faces when
handling institutional orders. Providing customers with details on the economic incentives of
broker-dealers at trading centers would allow customers to more effectively assess any potential
conflicts of interest its broker-dealers face when routing its institutional orders. For example,
with such information, a customer would be able to compare the average net execution fee or
rebate on particular venues in light of other order handling information at the venues like the
total shares routed and the fill rate. If a broker-dealer routes a large number of shares to a venue
with a low fill rate but that venue provides a significant rebate for orders executed, a customer
may seek to inquire about the benefits of routing such a large amount of order flow to that venue.
The Commission acknowledges that, depending on the arrangement between a brokerdealer and its institutional customer, a broker-dealer may directly pass on execution fees and
rebates to its institutional customer. In such instance, any economic incentives to route orders to
certain trading centers would not present a potential conflict of interest, as the broker-dealer
would not be benefiting from receipt of fees or rebates. The Commission preliminarily believes
that a broker-dealer that directly passes on execution fees or rebates to its customers should
nonetheless provide the average net execution fee or rebate in the report so that, among other
things, the customer has a means to verify that no conflict of interest existed between the brokerdealer and a particular trading center through comparing the execution fees and rebates it
received directly through its broker-dealer to the average net execution fee or rebate disclosed in
the report.
162

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(ii)(D).

94

Moreover, broker-dealers would be required to disclose the average net execution fee or
rebate by order routing strategy. Such disclosure would allow customers to assess whether there
are conflicts of interest in the broker-dealer’s routing decision. For example, if in connection
with an aggressive order routing strategy, the broker-dealer routinely routes orders that remove
liquidity to venues with rebates for removing liquidity but a low fill rate, it may indicate to the
customer that the broker-dealer may not be acting consistent with the customer’s trading
objectives.
The report would further disclose the total number of shares executed at the midpoint and
the percentage of shares executed at the midpoint. 163 Many trading centers offer users the ability
to post orders at the midpoint of the NBBO, and incoming marketable orders can execute against
such orders. 164 Midpoint execution information would provide a customer with greater
information on the execution quality of the venue and the type of liquidity resting at a venue.
For example, the midpoint is generally considered to be a higher quality execution than the
NBBO because both the buyer and the seller receive price improvement over the best displayed
price, and an order at the midpoint generally has less impact on price since the execution does

163

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(ii)(E)-(F). The midpoint would be the price halfway
between the national best bid and national best offer.

164

See, e.g., Rule 11.9(c)(9) of the Bats BZX Exchange, Inc. (“Bats BZX”) (defining
Midpoint Peg Order); Rule 4702(d) of The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (defining
Midpoint Pegging); Robert P. Bartlett, III and Justin McCrary, Dark Trading at the
Midpoint: Pricing Rules, Order Flow and Price Discovery (February 12, 2015) (“Bartlett
and McCrary Paper”), available at
http://www.stern.nyu.edu/sites/default/files/assets/documents/2%20Bartlett%20and%20
McCrary%20Shall%20We%20Haggle.pdf (describing midpoint trading on non-exchange
venues).

95

not remove the best displayed price. 165 Customers would be able to examine when they receive
midpoint price improvement and at which venues. Coupled with the other required disclosures
such as the average net execution fee or rebate and fill rate, customers could further assess the
potential for conflicts of interest facing their broker-dealers that may affect the broker-dealer’s
institutional order routing practices. For example, if a broker-dealer routes a large number of
shares to a venue that provides a significant rebate for orders executed but where the customer
receives a low fill rate and a low percentage of its shares executed at the midpoint, a customer
may seek to question the broker-dealer regarding the benefits of routing such a large amount of
order flow to that venue. As proposed, broker-dealers would also be required to disclose the
total number of shares executed at the midpoint and the percentage of shares executed at the
midpoint by order routing strategy, which should allow customers greater insights into which
order routing strategies generate midpoint executions and which venues are providing midpoint
executions.
The report would also require disclosure of the total number and percentage of shares
executed that were priced on the side of the spread more favorable to the institutional order and
the total number and percentage of shares executed that were priced on the side of the spread less
favorable to the institutional order. 166 Information with respect to which side of the spread
orders executed on would help customers assess the execution quality their institutional orders
received, which in connection with the order routing strategy disclosures and the fees and rebates
disclosures, would allow customers to better evaluate the performance of its broker-dealers. For
165

See, e.g., Bartlett and McCrary Paper, supra note 164 (stating that midpoint of the NBBO
is a form of trading that is generally considered to have significant benefits for
institutional investors).

166

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(ii)(G)-(J).

96

example, if the customer’s strategy is to be passive, but its broker-dealer is frequently routing
orders to a venue or venues that are taking liquidity at the side of the spread less favorable to the
institutional order, then the customer could further inquire about the broker-dealer’s rationale for
routing to such venue. The Commission preliminarily believes that requiring these granular
details of how institutional shares are executed should provide customers with more information
to evaluate the quality of their broker-dealers’ order handling services.
Comment is generally requested on order execution information as proposed in Rule
606(b)(3)(ii). In particular, the Commission solicits comment on the following:
53.

Should any of the terms in proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(ii) be defined? Should the
information proposed to be required be modified in any way, should additional
information related to order execution be required, or should any proposed
requirement be omitted? Please explain.

54.

Do commenters believe that the required order execution information would be
useful to institutional customers? Please explain with respect to each of the
proposed institutional order disclosure categories.

55.

Do commenters believe that disclosures regarding fill rates and average fill size
would assist institutional customers in understanding how much of their orders
are executed at a venue versus routed on to another venue? Are there other data
that would be useful in analyzing order execution?

56.

Would disclosures related to execution fees and rebates be useful to institutional
customers? Would this information support an evaluation of a broker-dealer’s
potential economic incentives and/or conflicts of interest to route and/or execute
orders at a particular venue? Please provide support for your arguments.

97

57.

Do commenters believe that the total number and percentage of shares executed at
the midpoint indicate higher quality executions? Would this information be
useful to customers interested in examining their institutional order execution
quality? Please explain.

58.

Do commenters believe that information on the shares executed on the side of the
spread favorable or less favorable to the institutional order would be useful to
institutional customers in analyzing their broker-dealer’s order handling
practices? What other order execution data, if any, would be useful to customers?
Would information on shares executed against displayed or undisplayed liquidity
be useful? Should any of the proposed requirements be modified or eliminated?
If so, which ones and why? Please provide support for your arguments.

59.

Do commenters believe that the proposed data points outlined above would
provide customers with meaningful information? Would the proposed disclosures
allow customers to better assess the execution quality of their broker-dealer?
Would the report further permit customers to compare execution quality among
multiple broker-dealers across the market? Would the report, as proposed, allow
customers to more easily monitor for best execution?
d. Information on Orders that Provided Liquidity

In addition to the order routing and execution data detailed above, the Commission
proposes to require disclosure of information on institutional orders that provided liquidity
within the venue and order routing strategy segmentations described above. 167 In connection
with this new requirement, the Commission proposes to define the term “orders providing
167

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(iii).

98

liquidity” to mean “orders that were executed against after resting at a trading center.” 168
Generally, orders providing liquidity are submitted as non-marketable limit orders and are kept
in a limit order book awaiting execution. The Commission preliminarily believes that by
defining “orders providing liquidity” and “orders removing liquidity” (described in more detail
below), broker-dealers would be able to classify orders pursuant to a standardized description for
disclosure purposes.
The Commission preliminarily believes that disclosure of information on institutional
orders that provided liquidity is important for customers to better understand to which venues the
broker-dealer routes liquidity providing orders, how long it takes to execute such orders at each
venue, and the fees paid to or rebates received by the broker-dealer at each venue for liquidity
providing orders. The Commission proposes to require disclosure of: (1) total number of shares
executed of orders providing liquidity; (2) percentage of shares executed of orders providing
liquidity; (3) average time between order entry and execution or cancellation for orders
providing liquidity (in milliseconds); and (4) the average net execution rebate or fee for shares of
orders providing liquidity (cents per 100 shares, specified to four decimal places). 169
The information on orders that provided liquidity would include the total number of
shares executed of orders providing liquidity and the percentage of shares executed of orders
providing liquidity. 170 The Commission preliminarily believes that the total number of shares
executed of institutional orders providing liquidity would inform an institutional customer of
how much of its order flow provided liquidity at each venue and by order routing strategy. Such

168

See proposed Rule 600(b)(55).

169

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(iii).

170

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(iii)(A)-(B).

99

information is important for an institutional customer to understand how a broker-dealer is
implementing its order execution and routing strategies and at what venues. The Commission
also preliminarily believes that the percentage of shares executed of orders providing liquidity
would be useful for an institutional customer to readily assess the amount of shares that provided
liquidity at a venue in comparison to the total number of shares executed at the venue. Since
broker-dealers would also be required to disclose this information by order routing strategy,
institutional customers would have further data to better understand and analyze how a brokerdealer routes orders for various strategies and the potential effect on execution quality.
The institutional order handling report also would require data on the average time
between order entry and execution or cancellation for orders that provided liquidity prior to
execution or cancellation. 171 The average time between order entry and execution or
cancellation for orders that provided liquidity would be measured in milliseconds, which, due to
the speed of trading in today’s equity markets, the Commission preliminarily believes is an
appropriate measure. Disclosing the average length of time orders rest at venues before they are
either executed or canceled could provide insight into how a broker-dealer utilized venues when
seeking to execute institutional orders, specifically how long orders rest on order books before
receiving an execution or being canceled and sent back to the broker-dealer for further handling.
The Commission preliminarily believes that depending on the order routing strategy, the average
length of time that orders are posted to a venue, and thus providing liquidity, could help indicate
empirically whether the broker-dealer is appropriately implementing a customer’s desired order
routing strategy. For example, if a customer wanted its broker-dealer to handle its institutional
order using a neutral order routing strategy, such strategy would generally seek to provide
171

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(iii)(C).

100

liquidity and not aggressively cross the spread, but speed of execution would still be of relative
concern. A venue that pays a significant rebate for shares of orders providing liquidity would
most likely have a deep book as many liquidity providing orders would post on that venue’s
book in order to receive the rebate. Due to the depth of book, the likelihood of receiving an
execution for a liquidity providing order on that venue could be low and the average time
between order entry and execution or cancellation for orders that provided liquidity could be
relatively long. In combination with the average net execution rebate or fee for shares that
provided liquidity, described below, customers could use the average time between order entry
and execution or cancellation for orders being posted at that venue to assess how their brokerdealers are implementing order routing strategies or whether their broker-dealers may be
influenced by the high rebate at such venue, in conflict with the customer’s interests.
The report would also contain the average net execution rebate or fee for shares of orders
providing liquidity. 172 The Commission proposes that the average net execution rebate or fee
would be calculated in cents per 100 shares, specified to four decimal places, to correspond to
current industry execution rebate and fee practices 173 and to ensure consistency in reporting
among broker-dealers. 174 The Commission preliminarily believes that disclosing the average net
execution rebate or fee for shares of orders providing liquidity at each venue and by order
routing strategy would allow customers to assess potential conflicts of interest from economic
172

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(iii)(D).

173

See, e.g., Bats BZX Exchange, Inc. Fee Schedule, available at
http://www.batstrading.com/support/fee_schedule/bzx/; Rule 7018 of The NASDAQ
Stock Market LLC, available at
http://nasdaq.cchwallstreet.com/NASDAQTools/PlatformViewer.asp?selectednode=chp
%5F1%5F1%5F4%5F6&manual=%2Fnasdaq%2Fmain%2Fnasdaq%2Dequityrules%2F
(pricing execution fees and rebates to four decimal places).

174

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(iii)(D).

101

incentives facing their broker-dealers with regard to the venues to which broker-dealers route
orders and the order routing strategies that use those venues. For example, if a broker-dealer
routes orders that provide liquidity to the venues with the highest rebate, and orders that remove
liquidity to the venues with the lowest take fee, a customer could then examine the fill rates at
those venues to determine whether there is potential for conflicts of interest with respect to the
broker-dealer’s own economic interest. 175 The Commission preliminarily believes that this
information will be useful for customers to understand, and assess the potential effect of,
economic incentives on execution quality.
The Commission requests comment on the disclosure requirements pertaining to
institutional orders that provide liquidity as proposed in Rule 606(b)(3)(iii). In particular, the
Commission solicits comment on the following:
60.

The Commission proposes to define “orders providing liquidity.” Do commenters
believe that this term should be defined? Is the proposed definition useful to
broker-dealers in categorizing an order for reporting purposes? Should it be
modified in any way, including adding additional criteria? Why or why not?

61.

Do commenters believe that the total number of shares executed of orders
providing liquidity is the appropriate data to inform customers how much of its

175

Typically, broker-dealers pay fees and receive rebates that result from routing orders of
retail customers. For orders from institutional customers, it depends on the arrangement
between an institutional customer and a broker-dealer: the broker-dealer may pay fees
and receive rebates that result from routing orders of the institutional customer, or the
broker-dealer may pass those fees and rebates through to the institutional customer. In
the case where a broker-dealer passes the fees and rebates through to the customer, there
would not be potential conflicts of interest in the broker-dealer’s order routing decisions
with respect to fees and rebates.

102

order flow provided liquidity? Are there other data factors that the Commission
should consider?
62.

Does the percentage of shares executed of orders providing liquidity provide
information customers could use to evaluate how a broker-dealer is implementing
its order execution and routing strategies and at what venues? Would this
information be useful to customers in analyzing and potentially modifying their
trading instructions or choosing a broker-dealer for order routing and execution
services?

63.

Do commenters believe that the average time between order entry and execution
or cancellation (measured in milliseconds) for orders providing liquidity will be
an appropriate measure of whether the broker-dealer is implementing a
customer’s order instructions? If not, why not? Do commenters believe that the
“average” is the appropriate measure to gauge the amount of time an order is
resting on the book? What are alternative data points or measurements that would
achieve the same goal? Separately, is milliseconds an appropriate measure? If
not, what would be more appropriate? Are there other time measures and/or data
that would be useful to institutional customers in evaluating whether the brokerdealer is implementing their order instructions? If so, please explain and provide
data to support your argument.

64.

Do commenters believe that disclosing the average net execution rebate or fee for
shares of orders providing liquidity at each venue and by order routing strategy
would be useful in assessing potential conflicts of interest broker-dealers may

103

face with regard to routing venues and the order routing strategies that use those
venues?
65.

Do commenters believe that specifying the average net execution fee or rebate to
four decimal places is appropriate? If not, to what level of precision should the
fee or rebate be specified? Please explain and provide data for your argument.
e. Information on Orders that Removed Liquidity

Similarly to orders that provided liquidity, the Commission proposes to require the
disclosure of information on institutional orders that removed liquidity within the venue and
order routing strategy segmentations described above. 176 Related to this new disclosure, the
Commission proposes to define the term “orders removing liquidity” to mean “orders that
executed against resting trading interest at a trading center.” 177 Generally, orders that remove
liquidity are marketable orders that are immediately executable when routed to a venue and
execute against and remove orders that are resting on a trading center’s order book. The
Commission preliminarily believes that the defined term should reduce any potential brokerdealer confusion when distinguishing orders for reporting purposes and would allow all brokerdealers to more consistently designate certain orders as orders removing liquidity.
The Commission preliminarily believes that disclosure of information on institutional
orders that removed liquidity will be useful for customers to understand which venues their
broker-dealers route liquidity removing orders to and the fees paid or rebates received at each
venue for such orders. The Commission proposes to require disclosure of: (1) total number of
shares executed of orders removing liquidity; (2) percentage of shares executed of orders
176

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(iv).

177

See proposed Rule 600(b)(56).

104

removing liquidity; and (3) average net execution fee or rebate for shares of orders removing
liquidity (cents per 100 shares, specified to four decimal places). 178
As proposed, the report would require data on the total number of shares executed and the
percentage of shares executed of orders removing liquidity 179 The Commission preliminarily
believes the number of shares and the percentage of shares executed that removed liquidity at
each venue would allow the customer to understand how much of its total institutional orders
removed liquidity at a particular venue, as well as by order routing strategy. Coupled with the
information on fill rates, customers could assess the risk of information leakage and the potential
effect of the broker-dealer’s routing practices on execution quality. For example, many market
participants monitor their and other bids and offers for executions. When an execution occurs on
one venue, market participants may adjust their bids or offers on other venues to take into
account that there may be more trading interest to follow, which could result in prices moving
away from the institutional order and ultimately resulting in the institutional order receiving a
worse overall price for the full size of the institutional order. Indeed, the risk of information
leakage and its potential negative impact on execution quality may be significant, if a brokerdealer routinely routes orders removing liquidity to a venue with insufficient liquidity to fill the
orders. Using the proposed disclosures, customers could assess whether their broker-dealers
routed their institutional orders that removed liquidity in the most effective manner to reduce the
potential that prices move against the institutional order.
The institutional order handling report also would require disclosure of the average net
execution fee or rebate for shares of orders that removed liquidity. Parallel to the information on
178

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(iv)(A)-(C).

179

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(iv)(A)-(B).

105

orders providing liquidity, the average net execution fee or rebate for orders removing liquidity
would be calculated in cents per 100 shares, specified to four decimal places, to correspond to
current industry practice and to ensure consistency in reporting among broker-dealers. 180
Additionally, similar to the information on orders providing liquidity, this information would
allow customers to examine the venues chosen by their broker-dealers, the order routing
strategies used, and the economic interests motivating such choices. If a broker-dealer routinely
routes orders that remove liquidity to a venue that pays a rebate to the broker-dealer or charges
the lowest fee, the customer could examine whether there is a conflict of interest that affects how
the broker-dealer handles its institutional orders, and if so, whether that conflict of interest has a
negative impact on execution quality.
The Commission requests comment on disclosures for institutional orders that remove
liquidity as proposed in Rule 606(b)(3)(iv). In particular, the Commission solicits comment on
the following:
66.

The Commission proposes to define “orders removing liquidity.” Do commenters
believe that this term should be defined? Is the proposed definition useful to
broker-dealers in categorizing an order for reporting purposes? Should it be
modified in any way, including adding additional criteria? Why or why not?

67.

Do commenters believe that the total number of shares executed of orders
removing liquidity is the appropriate data to inform customers how much of its
order flow removed liquidity? Are there other data factors that the Commission
should consider?

180

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(iv)(C).

106

68.

Does the percentage of shares executed of orders removing liquidity provide
information customers could use to evaluate how a broker-dealer is implementing
its order execution and routing strategies and at what venues? Would this
information be useful to customers in analyzing and potentially modifying their
order instructions and/or choosing a broker-dealer for order routing and execution
services?

69.

Do commenters believe that the average net execution fee or rebate for shares of
orders removing liquidity at each venue and by order routing strategy would be
useful in assessing potential conflicts of interest broker-dealers may face with
regard to routing venues and the order routing strategies that use those venues?

70.

Do commenters believe that specifying the average net execution fee or rebate to
four decimal places is appropriate? To what level of precision should the fee or
rebate be specified? Please explain and provide data for your argument.
5.

Public Report for Institutional Orders

The institutional order handling disclosures, described above, would provide detailed
information to a requesting customer with regard to how all of its institutional orders were
handled by a broker-dealer, broken down by calendar month. The Commission preliminarily
believes that a publicly disclosed aggregated report (aggregating all customer information) could
provide additional transparency into the broader institutional order handling practices of brokerdealers, which could, in turn, allow for more efficient and effective comparisons of the quality of
services offered by broker-dealers. As noted above, in today’s complex equity markets, it may
be difficult for customers to assess the order handling services of multiple broker-dealers without

107

standardized order handling disclosures, particularly the services of broker-dealers with which
they do not have a relationship.
The Commission preliminarily believes that aggregated public disclosure of the
information contained in the customer-specific institutional order handling reports, described
above, would be useful to institutional customers and other market participants to determine
whether to engage the services of a broker-dealer as well as the ability to gauge the adequacy of
the services performed by a broker-dealer. The public disclosure by broker-dealers of
aggregated institutional order handling information should promote competition as brokerdealers may seek to differentiate their services and expertise in an effort to retain current
customers and attract the business of prospective customers. Indeed, the Commission
preliminarily believes that public disclosure of institutional order handling information by each
broker-dealer would provide market participants with useful information and could bring
competitive forces to bear on broker-dealer institutional order handling services. Accordingly,
the Commission preliminarily believes that aggregated public institutional order handling reports
would increase the overall transparency of institutional order handling practices to the benefit of
customers and the marketplace as a whole.
The Commission proposes to require a broker-dealer that receives institutional orders to
make publicly available 181 a report that aggregates the information required for customer-specific
institutional order handling reports, described above, for all institutional orders it receives. 182
181

The Commission notes that “make publicly available” is defined in Rule 600(b)(36) of
Regulation NMS to mean “posting on an Internet Web site that is free and readily
accessible to the public, furnishing a written copy to customers on request without
charge, and notifying customers at least annually in writing that a written copy will be
furnished on request.” See 17 CFR 242.600(b)(36).

182

See proposed Rule 606(c).

108

Broker-dealers would be required to make such report publicly available for each calendar
quarter, broken down by calendar month, within one month after the end of the quarter. 183 This
public aggregated institutional order handling report would be mandatory for all of the
institutional orders that a broker-dealer handles within a calendar quarter regardless of whether
any of its customers request customer-specific institutional order handling reports.
Similar to the customer-specific institutional order handling reports required under
proposed Rule 606(b), the public aggregated institutional order handling report would be made
available using an XML schema and associated PDF renderer to be published on the
Commission’s Web site. 184 The Commission preliminarily believes that requiring the public
aggregated institutional order handling reports be provided in this format would be useful to
customers as it would allow them to more easily analyze and compare the data provided in both
types of reports, for the reasons discussed above, and would allow market participants generally
to analyze and compare broker-dealer institutional order handling practices. 185
In addition, the Commission proposes to require that broker-dealers keep such public
aggregated institutional order handling reports posted on an Internet Web site that is free and
readily accessible to the public for a period of three years from the initial date of posting on the
Internet Web site. 186 The Commission preliminarily believes that making this historical data
available to customers and the public generally will be useful to those seeking to analyze past
order handling behavior of a broker-dealer or across multiple broker-dealers. To further support
183

See id.

184

See supra Section III.A.3.

185

See id.

186

The Commission notes that it is proposing similar reporting format and accessibility
requirements for quarterly reports on retail order routing in Rule 606(a)(1), which is
discussed in more detail in Section III.B.4. below.

109

customers’ usage of the public aggregated institutional order handling reports, the Commission
notes that it would be incumbent upon the broker-dealer to maintain accurate order handling data
during the three year period.
The Commission recognizes that broker-dealers have proprietary methods for order
handling, and is cognizant of the sensitive nature of such business practices and intellectual
property. The Commission preliminarily believes that the risk of exposing sensitive proprietary
information on the broker-dealers’ order handling techniques would be minimal due to the
structure of the proposed report and by aggregating the information to be publicly disclosed.
Like the proposed customer-specific institutional order handling reports, the proposed public
aggregated institutional order handling report would aggregate a broker-dealer’s order handling
information for all NMS stocks for the reporting period, and, therefore, the Commission
preliminarily believes other market participants would not be able to ascertain which particular
securities were routed during the reporting period. Additionally, as routing decisions are
generally dependent on the market for the particular security at the time of routing, the
Commission preliminarily believes that public aggregated institutional order handling reports for
the prior calendar quarter would not provide other market participants, including a brokerdealer’s competitors, sensitive information about a broker-dealer’s order handling techniques.
Further, while the public aggregated institutional order handling report would provide
information on the venues to which a broker-dealer routed its institutional order flow as well as
the three categories of order routing strategies used to route those orders, the report would not
provide any information about the manner or sequence in which those orders were routed to the
venues. For example, the report would not disclose whether the broker-dealer routed orders
sequentially or simultaneously to multiple trading centers in order to fully execute an

110

institutional order, or the sequence in which such orders were routed to trading centers. Because
such information is essential to effectively reverse engineer an order routing algorithm, the
Commission preliminarily believes that the proposed public aggregated institutional order
handling information would not provide other market participants with the information to reverse
engineer a broker-dealer’s proprietary order handling techniques, regardless of the number of
orders a broker-dealer routes or the number of institutional customers for which a broker-dealer
routes orders during the reporting period. Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily believes
that information contained in the proposed public aggregated institutional order handling report
should provide appropriate safeguards for broker-dealers’ current business practices, while, at
the same time, providing meaningful information for customers and others to compare brokerdealers’ order routing services.
The Commission also preliminarily believes that the risk of exposing sensitive customerspecific information would be minimal due to the structure of the proposed report and by
aggregating the information to be publicly disclosed. As noted above, the proposed public
aggregated institutional order handling report would aggregate order handling information for all
NMS stocks for the reporting period and would not disclose the customers of the broker-dealer.
To the extent a broker-dealer only had one or a few institutional customers to which it provided
routing services, market participants could presume a customer’s orders were included in the
public aggregated institutional order handling report, but only to the extent the market
participants knew of the routing relationship. However, even if a market participant is aware of
such routing relationship, because the proposed public aggregated institutional order handling
report would not disclose the specific securities routed and the historical data would reflect only

111

previous calendar quarters, the Commission preliminarily believes that public disclosure would
not expose sensitive information of the institutional customers.
The Commission understands that many customers currently request information about a
broker-dealer’s order handling practices before engaging its services. 187 Generally, these
requests are questionnaires regarding order routing strategies used by the broker-dealer and the
venues to which the broker-dealer routes orders. 188 The Commission understands that the
information requested in the questionnaires and the responses provided are generally not
uniform, and, therefore, not readily comparable across multiple broker-dealers. While customers
would continue to be able to use their specific questionnaires, the Commission preliminarily
believes that a standardized report reflecting the order handling information for all of a brokerdealer’s institutional orders for the past calendar quarter would greatly enhance their ability to
understand how the broker-dealer routes and executes institutional orders and would also allow
them to compare the execution quality of their orders against the execution quality of all of a
broker-dealer’s institutional orders. In addition, the standardized structure of the public
aggregated institutional order handling report would provide all customers, regardless of size or
sophistication, with the means to compare and contrast how broker-dealers implement passive,
neutral, and aggressive order routing strategies, and the quality of executions received with
respect to such strategies.
Moreover, the public disclosure of aggregated institutional order handling information
would provide academics and others, including third-party vendors offering analytical services,
access to order routing and execution information that would not otherwise be available.
187

See TM Memo re Morgan Stanley I, supra note 43.

188

See id.

112

Finally, the Commission notes that the proposed public aggregated institutional order
handling reports differ from the current reports on retail order routing required pursuant to Rule
606(a). 189 The Commission preliminarily believes that such distinction is appropriate because
institutional orders are generally large and may be complex, in contrast to retail orders that are of
smaller size, utilize different routing strategies, and which typically have less impact on the
market. Specifically, due to the large size of institutional orders, it may be difficult to fully fill
the orders by executing against displayed bids or offers resting on a trading center. Instead,
institutional orders are often broken up into child orders, routed to multiple trading centers, and
filled at multiple price levels which may result in potential information leakage 190 and
unfavorable price movement to the institutional order. 191 As such, broker-dealers often employ
more complex order routing strategies when handling institutional orders to reduce the potential
information leakage and unfavorable price movement. 192 Conversely, marketable retail orders
are generally internalized by broker-dealers at prices at or slightly better than the NBBO, with
very little risk of information leakage and impact on the market. If not internalized, retail orders,
due to their smaller size are typically routed to a single trading center and fully executed. While
the potential for information leakage of a retail order is low, even if order information is
exposed, there is little influence on the retail order as it would likely already be fully executed.
189

Rule 606(a) currently requires the reporting of the percentage of total orders that were
non-directed orders, and the percentages of total non-directed orders that were market
orders, limit orders, and other orders, the percentages of such orders routed to the
Specified Venue, and a discussion of the material aspects of the broker-dealer's
relationship with each Specified Venue (including a description of any arrangement for
payment for order flow and any profit-sharing relationship). See 17 CFR 242.606(a)(1).

190

See Bunge Article, supra note 69.

191

See Bartlett and McCrary Paper, supra note 164, at 5 (discussing order size and its
relation to price impact).

192

See Concept Release on Equity Market Structure, supra note 2, at 3602.

113

Due to these differences, the Commission preliminarily believes that because retail orders are not
subjected to similar risks of potential information leakage and disadvantageous price impact as
with institutional orders, the use of the proposed aggregated reporting of information for
institutional orders - including order routing and execution and orders providing and removing
liquidity - to among other things, monitor broker-dealers’ management of these risks would not
be pertinent for retail orders.
The Commission requests comments on information contained in the public aggregated
institutional order handling reports by broker-dealers. In particular, the Commission solicits
comment on the following:
71.

Do commenters believe that aggregated institutional order handling information
being publicly disclosed would be useful to institutional customers and other
market participants? Who would it be useful to and in what ways?

72.

Do commenters believe that the aggregated institutional order handling
information proposed by Rule 606(c) should be disclosed for both retail and
institutional orders, rather than only for institutional orders as proposed? Why or
why not? Please provide support for your argument.

73.

Should the public aggregated institutional order handling report include all the
data points enumerated in proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(i)-(iv)? Why or why not? If
not, which data points should be excluded or modified? Are there other data
points the Commission should consider that would be useful to customers and the
public? Please explain and provide data, if possible.

74.

Do commenters believe that broker-dealers should be required to provide the
public aggregated institutional order handling report in the proposed format?

114

Why or why not? Do commenters believe that providing the report in a structured
XML format will facilitate comparison of the data across broker-dealers? If not,
why not? Do commenters believe that a structured XML format would be useful
to customers and other market participants, and if so how? What incremental
costs or savings would broker-dealers incur in providing the report in a structured
XML format? Should the Commission consider alternative formats? If so, please
explain the alternative formats and associated benefits and costs. Do commenters
believe that it would be useful for broker-dealers to also provide the report in an
instantly readable PDF format? If not, why not? Are there other formats that
would be more appropriate? If so, please explain the alternative formats and
benefits and costs.
75.

Do commenters believe that the rule should include a de minimis exemption for
broker-dealers that receive, in the aggregate, less than a certain threshold number
or dollar value of institutional orders? Why or why not? If so, what would be the
appropriate threshold number or dollar value of institutional orders a brokerdealer should need to receive from all customers in the aggregate before it would
be required to provide the public order handling reports? Please explain.
Separately, are there alternative approaches to reduce the compliance costs on
broker-dealers with few institutional customers? Please provide data to support
your arguments.

76.

Regarding broker-dealers with a small number of institutional customers, do
commenters believe there is a potential risk of exposing the customer’s sensitive,
proprietary information in an aggregated report? Should the Commission make

115

any modifications to the proposed disclosures or eliminate any or all of the
proposed requirements under certain circumstances? If so, what is the appropriate
measure? Please provide support for your argument.
77.

Do commenters believe that a broker-dealer that routes less than a certain number
of orders should be exempt from the public disclosure requirement? Why or why
not? What is an appropriate threshold for this potential exemption? Separately,
are there alternative approaches to reduce the compliance costs on broker-dealers
who route and execute few institutional orders? Please provide data to support
your arguments. What information, if any, should the broker-dealer be required
to provide to customers and/or the public if it relies on the potential exemption?

78.

Do commenters believe that the public reports would be useful to customers and
the public in comparing the quality of services offered by broker-dealers? Do
commenters believe that public disclosure of aggregated institutional order
handling information will enhance competition among broker-dealers?

79.

Do commenters believe that publicly releasing aggregated institutional order
handling reports on a quarterly basis is appropriate? Should the report be publicly
disclosed at a different interval, such as monthly? Please explain.

80.

Do commenters believe that the requirement that the reports be broken down by
calendar month is useful? Should the report be broken down with a different
interval(s)? Please explain.

81.

Do commenters believe that the aggregated institutional order handling
information will be stale if published one month after the end of the quarter?
Should the disclosures be available earlier or later? Please explain.

116

82.

Will aggregating the information being publicly disclosed mitigate the risk that
the disclosure will reveal sensitive, proprietary information about the brokerdealer’s order handling practices? Will it mitigate the risk that the disclosure will
reveal sensitive proprietary information about customers’ trading strategies? Why
or why not? Are there alternative approaches to protecting such information
while still requiring the public disclosure of meaningful order handling
information? Are there other benefits or risks associated with publicly disclosing
aggregated institutional order handling information?

83.

Should the Commission require that each quarterly report be publicly available
for a designated amount of time? If so, is three years a reasonable amount of time
that the reports should be available? Would a shorter or longer period be more
appropriate? How, if at all, would a shorter or longer disclosure period impact
investors placing orders or broker-dealers? Please explain.

84.

Should the Commission require all broker-dealers to make their aggregated
institutional order handling reports available on one centralized website? For
example, should all broker-dealer reports be available on the SEC’s Web site?
Alternatively, should the SEC’s Web site have hyperlinks to the Web sites of
broker-dealers where they display their aggregated reports? Why or why not?

85.

As proposed, broker-dealers would be required to “make publicly available,” as
defined in Rule 600(b)(36) of Regulation NMS, their aggregated public
institutional order handling reports, which means, among other things, that such
reports must be posted on an Internet Web site that is free and readily accessible
to the public. Do commenters believe that broker-dealers might place restrictions

117

on or impediments to obtaining the reports from their own websites, such as
requiring agreement with certain terms, conditions, or provisions prior to being
provided access to the reports? If so, what would be the costs and benefits of
those restrictions or impediments? Please explain.
86.

Should the Commission require that the aggregated institutional order handling
reports be filed with or furnished to the SEC? Should the Commission require
that the individual order handling reports provided to customers with institutional
orders be filed with or furnished to the SEC? Why or why not?

B.

Disclosures for Retail Orders

As noted above, changes to market structure and order routing practices have led the
Commission to analyze the current requirements for retail orders under Rule 606. Currently,
Rule 606 reports allow customers to assess order routing and execution services of brokerdealers with respect to retail orders. Additionally, the Rule 606 reports are used by brokerdealers as a means to compare their order routing and execution services to that of other firms. 193
Some market participants have stated that public disclosure of meaningful data in Rule 606
reports can assist broker-dealers in evaluating their own trade execution performance relative to
other firms. 194 The Commission preliminarily believes that Rule 606 reports spur competition
193

See, e.g., NASDAQ Letter, supra note 19, at 20-21 (stating that, despite the fact that retail
investors do not review 606 reports, the disclosure rules have positively impacted retail
customers since the reports facilitate brokers’ rigorous review of execution quality).

194

See, e.g., TD Ameritrade Letter, supra note 19, at 3-4 (stating that Rule 606 reports have
performed a vital role in adding transparency to market center execution practices and
that retail investors reap the ultimate benefit of the statistics); and Scottrade, Quarterly
Order Routing Disclosure, available at https://www.scottrade.com/onlinebrokerage/trade-quality-execution.html (stating that “enhanced, meaningful transparency
can serve as a catalyst for driving competition amongst industry participants to the
ultimate benefit of the investing public”).

118

among broker-dealers to provide enhanced order routing services and better execution quality,
which in turn motivates trading centers to deliver more efficient and innovative execution
services as they compete for order flow. The Commission preliminarily believes that investors
ultimately benefit from such enhanced competition, as broker-dealers continually seek to
enhance their order routing and execution services to achieve better execution quality for their
customers and to attract business from prospective customers.
To preserve the benefits of Rule 606 reports and keep pace with market developments,
the Commission preliminarily believes that it is appropriate to update Rule 606 to provide
customers with enhanced disclosure regarding a broker-dealer’s retail order handling practices.
As discussed above in detail, currently, Rule 606 requires, among other things, broker-dealers
that route “retail” orders to publicly disclose, on a quarterly and aggregated basis, certain
information regarding non-directed orders in NMS securities by listing market and material
aspects of relationships with Specified Venues. 195
1.

Marketable Limit Orders and Non-Marketable Limit Orders

Currently, with respect to what would be defined as “retail” orders by this proposal, Rule
606 distinguishes broadly between “market orders” and “limit orders.” Limit orders, however,
fall into two categories: (1) marketable limit orders, which are priced at or above the lowest
offer in the market for a buy order or at or below the highest bid in the market for a sell order;
and (2) non-marketable limit orders, which are priced to not execute immediately and seek to
provide liquidity. 196 The distinction between a marketable and non-marketable limit order often
is a significant factor in a broker-dealer’s order routing practices. Broker-dealers have several
195

See supra Section II.A.

196

See Dolgopolov, supra note 55, at 234-235.

119

options when deciding to route their customers’ limit orders – they may (1) internalize and trade
against customer order flow; (2) post the order; or (3) route the order to a third-party trading
center.
The Commission preliminarily believes that, under the current rule, customers and other
market participants cannot fully evaluate a broker-dealer’s limit order routing practice if both
marketable and non-marketable limit orders are combined into a single order category. The
Commission preliminarily believes that classifying limit orders into marketable and nonmarketable limit orders would allow customers and other market participants to more fully assess
a broker-dealer’s routing decisions for both types of orders and the potential impact on execution
quality. The Commission also preliminarily believes that greater transparency between the
routing practices of marketable and non-marketable limit orders would allow customers and
other market participants to better assess whether broker-dealers are effectively managing their
potential conflicts of interest. For example, the Commission understands that broker-dealers
may be incentivized to route marketable and non-marketable limit orders to certain venues based
on their fee or rebate schedule to the benefit of the broker-dealer. Providing greater public
transparency between the routing practices of marketable and non-marketable limit orders could
increase competition among broker-dealers and minimize the potential conflicts of interest
between maximizing revenue and the duty of best execution. 197
Currently, Rule 606(a)(1)(i) requires every broker-dealer’s quarterly retail order routing
report to include the percentage of total orders that were non-directed orders and the percentages
of total non-directed orders that were market orders, limit orders, and other orders. In addition,

197

See Battalio, Corwin, and Jennings Paper, supra note 57, at 3 (finding that fill rates for
displayed limit orders are lower on exchanges with higher take fees).

120

Rule 606(a)(1)(ii) requires every broker-dealer’s quarterly report on retail order routing to
include the identity of the ten venues to which the largest number of non-directed orders were
routed for execution, as well as any venue to which five percent or more of non-directed orders
were routed (i.e., collectively, Specified Venues). The Commission proposes to amend Rule
606(a)(1)(i) and (ii) to split limit orders and separately disclose them as marketable and nonmarketable. 198 In connection with this proposed new requirement, the Commission is proposing
to amend Rule 600 of Regulation NMS to include the definition of the term “non-marketable
limit order,” which is used in the proposed amendments to Rule 606(a). Specifically, the
Commission proposes to define “non-marketable limit order” to mean “any limit order other than
a marketable limit order.” 199
The Commission requests comment on the proposed amendments to Rules 600 and
606(a)(1)(i) and (ii). In particular, the Commission solicits comment on the following:
87.

Do commenters believe that broker-dealers use Rule 606 reports as a means to
assess how their order routing and execution services compare to other firms? Do
commenters believe that the reports encourage competition among brokerdealers? Why or why not? If so, do investors in turn benefit from such increased
competition? Please provide data to support your arguments.

88.

Do commenters believe that Rule 606 quarterly reports continue to provide useful
information for customers placing retail orders in assessing the quality of order
execution and the routing practices of their broker-dealers? Why or why not? If

198

See proposed Rule 606(a)(1)(i)-(ii).

199

See proposed Rule 600(b)(51).

121

not, how could the reports be improved to provide more useful information to
retail customers? Please explain.
89.

Do commenters believe that the proposed definition of non-marketable limit order
is appropriate to distinguish the types of limit orders? Why or why not? Should
the proposed definition be modified in any way? If so, please explain how.

90.

Do commenters believe that separately reporting limit orders by marketable and
non-marketable will enable customers placing retail orders to better understand
broker-dealers’ routing decisions and impact on best execution? Are there other
ways in which that information might be useful to customers? Do commenters
believe that the separate disclosure of marketable and non-marketable limit orders
will be useful to broker-dealers, and if so, how? Do commenters believe it will
promote competition among broker-dealers? Please provide data to support your
arguments.

91.

Do commenters believe that market orders and marketable limit orders should be
combined in the quarterly retail order routing report? Would such combination be
useful to customers? If so, how? Please explain and provide support, if possible.

92.

Should the Commission require the same disclosures for retail orders that it is
proposing to require for institutional orders? Why or why not? Would any or all
of the disclosures proposed above for institutional orders be appropriate or useful
for evaluating order routing of retail orders? If so, would the proposed
disclosures need to be modified in any way to be applied to retail orders? Please
explain.

122

93.

Are the venues that are required to be included on retail order routing reports
appropriate? Should the requirement cover more or fewer venues than are
currently included (i.e., the ten to which the largest number of non-directed orders
were routed for execution and any to which five percent or more of non-directed
orders were routed)?
2.

Net Payment for Order Flow and Transaction Fees and Rebates by

Specified Venue
Currently, Rule 606 requires that a broker-dealer’s quarterly retail order routing report
describe the material aspects of the broker-dealer’s relationship with each Specified Venue,
including a description of any arrangement for payment for order flow or profit-sharing
relationship. 200 The current disclosure requirement is intended to signal to investors the potential
conflicts of interest that may influence a broker-dealer’s order routing decisions. 201 Generally,
the description of any payment for order flow arrangement includes the material terms of the
relationship, a description of the amounts per share or per order that the broker-dealer receives,
and any transaction rebates. 202 Similarly, a broker-dealer that has entered into a profit-sharing
relationship arrangement with a Specified Venue must disclose the extent to which it would
share in profits derived from the execution of non-directed orders. 203

200

See supra notes 26 and 27 and accompanying text.

201

See Rule 606 Predecessor Adopting Release, supra note 15, at 75427 (stating that “[t]he
purpose of requiring disclosure concerning the relationships between a broker-dealer and
the venues to which it routes orders is to alert customers to potential conflicts of interest
that may influence the broker-dealer’s order routing practices”).

202

See id.

203

Id.

123

As noted above, financial inducements to attract order flow have become more varied and
may be a substantial source of revenue. 204 A significant percentage of retail orders are routed to
OTC market makers and most broker-dealers that handle retail orders either receive payment for
order flow in connection with the routing of orders or are affiliated with an OTC market maker
that executes the orders. 205 The Commission understands that financial inducements to attract
order flow may create conflicts of interest between maximizing revenue and broker-dealers’ duty
of best execution to their customers.
While Rule 606 currently requires public reports on order routing percentages to
Specified Venues and a discussion of the broker-dealer’s relationship with each Specified Venue,
it does not require detailed disclosure of payment for order flow received, payment from any
profit-sharing relationship received, or access fees or transaction rebates. As a result, the
Commission preliminarily believes that customers have not received as complete a picture of a
broker-dealer’s activities to fully evaluate its broker-dealer’s management of any potential
conflicts of interest and the quality of their broker-dealers’ retail order routing practices. The
204

See supra notes 71-74 and accompanying text. See also Battalio, Corwin, and Jennings
Paper, supra note 57, at 15-16 (“Nine of the brokers route at least a portion of their orders
to market makers that offer payment for marketable orders . . . Charles Schwab, Morgan
Stanley, Edward Jones, Just2Trade, and LowTrade route all non-directed market and
limit orders to market makers that purchase order flow (although LowTrade and
Just2Trade indicate that they do not accept payment for order flow, Edward Jones reports
‘no material economic relationship’ with the market makers, and Morgan Stanley reveals
no payment for order flow)”).

205

See id. In a typical payment for order flow arrangement, a broker-dealer is paid for
sending retail orders to another broker-dealer, which will in turn trade with the retail
orders out of its own inventory or route the order to another venue for execution. The
internalizing broker-dealer is able to capture small profits on these trades, and is thus able
to pay for the order flow which generates this profit. Moreover, retail order flow is
considered to be less informed about near-term price movements and therefore
particularly attractive to internalizing broker-dealers. See Concept Release on Equity
Market Structure, supra note 2, at 3612.

124

Commission further preliminarily believes that providing such data for specific order types
would further enhance a customer’s ability to assess their broker-dealers’ retail order routing
practices.
As such, the Commission proposes to amend Rule 606(a)(1) to include new subparagraph
(iii) to require that, for each Specified Venue, the broker-dealer must report the net aggregate
amount of any payment for order flow received, payment from any profit-sharing relationship
received, transaction fees paid, and transaction rebates received, both as a total dollar amount
and on a per share basis, for each of the following non-directed order types: (1) market orders;
(2) marketable limit orders; (3) non-marketable limit orders; and (4) other orders. 206
The Commission preliminarily believes identifying specific payment information
received for each category of order type by Specified Venue would provide customers with
useful information to more completely evaluate their broker-dealers’ services. Specifically, the
Commission preliminarily believes that providing the aggregate amount of payments and fees
received is important to give investors and others a comprehensive overview of their brokerdealer. Additionally, the Commission preliminarily believes that payments and fees received in
total dollar amounts per share for each order type would allow customers to have a stronger
grasp on a broker-dealer’s motivation to route to a particular Specified Venue, the management
of any potential conflicts of interest, and provide more insight into their retail order routing
practices. The Commission preliminarily believes that the greater transparency achieved by such
detailed information would be useful to retail customers when selecting or re-evaluating a
broker-dealer.

206

See proposed Rule 606(a)(1)(iii).

125

The Commission requests comment on the proposed detailed disclosure of payments
received and fees paid for market, marketable limit, non-marketable limit, and other order types
at each Specified Venue. In particular, the Commission solicits comment on the following:
94.

Do commenters believe that requiring broker-dealers to disclose, for each
Specified Venue, payment for order flow received, payment from any profitsharing relationship received, transaction fees paid, and transaction rebates
received would enable customers placing retail orders to better assess their
broker-dealers’ management of potential conflicts of interest and quality of
routing and execution services? Should the Commission require such information
to be disclosed? Is there additional information that a customer could use to
better assess their broker-dealer’s conflicts of interest and quality of routing and
execution services? Would requiring such disclosure affect broker-dealers’
routing decisions? Please explain and provide support for your argument.

95.

Do commenters believe that the proposal will permit customers placing retail
orders to be able to better assess whether financial inducements impact their
broker-dealer’s order routing decisions for different types of orders and the
execution quality of those orders? Why or why not?

96.

Do commenters believe there are other specific categories of orders in addition to
market orders, marketable limit orders, and non-marketable limit orders that
should be included in the disclosure that would aid investors placing retail orders
in assessing the quality of their order routing? Please provide support for your
arguments.

126

97.

Do commenters believe that broker-dealers should disclose the information
required by proposed Rule 606(a)(1)(iii) for all orders, not just retail orders?
3.

Discussion of Arrangement Terms with a Specified Venue

As noted above, Rule 606(a)(1)(iv) currently requires that a broker-dealer, in its quarterly
Rule 606 report, provide a discussion of the material aspects of its relationship with a Specified
Venue, including a description of any arrangement for payment for order flow and any profitsharing relationship. In adopting the rule, the Commission stated that the description of a
payment for order flow arrangement must include disclosure of the material aspects of the
arrangement. 207 The Commission noted that material aspects of the arrangement should include
a description of the terms of the arrangement, such as any amounts per share or per order that the
broker-dealer receives. 208 While the Commission understands that certain terms, such as
amounts per share or per order received, are important to a reasonable investor in evaluating a
broker-dealer’s routing practices, based on market structure changes since the Rule 606
Predecessor Adopting Release, among other things, the Commission preliminarily believes that
disclosure of any terms, written or oral, that may influence a broker-dealer’s order routing
decision would be useful for customers to assess the potential conflicts of interest facing brokerdealers when implementing their retail order routing decisions. Accordingly, the Commission
preliminarily believes it should require broker-dealers to describe any terms, written or oral, of
payment for order flow arrangements or profit-sharing relationships that may influence a brokerdealer’s order routing decision in the discussion of a broker-dealer’s relationship with a
Specified Venue.
207

See Rule 606 Predecessor Adopting Release, supra note 15, at 75427.

208

See id.

127

The Commission acknowledges that payment for order flow arrangements are intensively
fact-based in nature and may vary across broker-dealers, nevertheless, the Commission
preliminarily believes that disclosing the terms of such arrangements will provide more complete
information for customers to better understand and evaluate a broker-dealer’s retail order routing
decision. In this regard, the Commission preliminarily believes that requiring broker-dealers to
describe the terms of such arrangements with a Specified Venue that may influence their
decision of where to route a retail order should serve to provide additional clarity to customers in
evaluating a broker-dealer’s retail order routing practices. The Commission preliminarily
believes that the following are a non-exclusive list of terms of a payment for order flow
arrangement or profit-sharing relationships that may influence a broker-dealer’s order routing
decision and would be required to be disclosed under the proposal: (1) incentives for equaling or
exceeding an agreed upon order flow volume threshold, such as additional payments or a higher
rate of payment; (2) disincentives for failing to meet an agreed upon minimum order flow
threshold, such as lower payments or the requirement to pay a fee; (3) volume-based tiered
payment schedules; and (4) agreements regarding the minimum amount of order flow that the
broker-dealer would send to a venue. 209 The Commission preliminarily believes that these four
types of terms reflect existing types of arrangements.
The Commission is proposing to require broker-dealers to disclose when a Specified
Venue provides incentives for equaling or exceeding a volume threshold by offering additional
payments or a higher rate of payment, or conversely, disincentives for failing to meet an agreed
upon minimum retail order flow threshold, such as a lower payment or charging a fee. The
Commission understands that such arrangements may vary among venues, as well as for each
209

See proposed Rule 606(a)(1)(iv).

128

broker-dealer sending orders to those venues, and some venues provide higher rebates for
meeting or exceeding order flow quotas or charge financial penalties for failing to meet order
flow quotas. The Commission preliminarily believes that such incentives and disincentives
influence a broker-dealer’s decision to either meet or route additional retail order flow to exceed
the threshold, and should be disclosed to inform customers of their broker-dealer’s conflicts of
interest.
Further, the Commission is proposing to require broker-dealers to disclose any volumebased tiered payment schedules with a Specified Venue. Venues that offer these payment
schedules typically offer incrementally higher rebates or lower fees to broker-dealers for
additional retail order flow volume. The Commission preliminarily believes that these payment
schedules can encourage a broker-dealer to route additional retail order flow to such venue in an
effort to reap a financial benefit and should be disclosed. Additionally, the Commission is
proposing to require broker-dealers to disclose agreements regarding the minimum amount of
retail order flow that a broker-dealer would be required to send to a Specified Venue. These
types of agreements typically specify that a broker-dealer must send a minimum number of
orders or shares to a venue during a particular time period. The Commission preliminarily
believes that such commitments for retail order flow may present conflicts of interest and should
be disclosed. Finally, the Commission acknowledges that as market structure evolves, new types
of arrangements not specifically listed may come about. The four arrangements referenced in
Rule 606(a)(1)(iv) are not an exhaustive list of terms of payment for order flow arrangements or
profit-sharing relationships that may influence a broker-dealer’s retail order routing decision that
would be required to be disclosed under the proposed rule. The proposed rule would require

129

disclosure of any term of such arrangements that may influence a broker-dealer’s retail order
routing decision.
As described above, because certain terms of payment for order flow arrangements or
profit-sharing relationships may encourage broker-dealers to direct their orders to a specific
venue in order to achieve an economic benefit or avoid an economic loss, potential conflicts of
interest may arise. The Commission preliminarily believes that disclosure of such information
would be useful for customers to assess the extent to which a broker-dealer’s payment for order
flow arrangements and profit-sharing relationships may potentially affect or distort the way in
which retail orders are routed. The Commission further preliminarily believes that providing
customers a comprehensive description of such quantifiable terms of a broker-dealer’s
relationship with a Specified Venue would allow them to fully appreciate the nature and extent
of potential conflicts of interest facing their broker-dealers and assist them in evaluating the
broker-dealers’ management of such potential conflicts of interest.
The Commission requests comment on requiring broker-dealers to describe any terms of
payment for order flow arrangements and profit-sharing relationships with a Specified Venue
that may influence their retail order routing decisions. In particular, the Commission solicits
comment on the following:
98.

Do commenters believe that disclosure of any terms of payment for order flow
arrangements and profit-sharing relationships that may influence order routing
decisions is relevant for retail customers to understand and evaluate a brokerdealer’s routing practices and handling of potential conflicts of interest? If so, do
commenters believe that the Commission should require a description of these
terms to be disclosed in the retail order routing reports? Why or why not? Please

130

explain. Would requiring such disclosure affect broker-dealers’ routing
decisions?
99.

Do commenters believe that broker-dealers should disclose the information
required by proposed Rule 606(a)(1)(iv) for all orders, not just retail orders?

100.

Do commenters believe that the four enumerated examples in proposed Rule
606(a)(1)(iv) reflect the types of payment for order flow arrangements and other
profit-sharing relationships currently in practice? If not, how should their
descriptions be modified and what other types of arrangements, if any, should be
specified in the rule text?

101.

Do commenters believe that there are other identifiable factors, beyond the four
included in the proposed rule, that may influence a broker-dealer’s order routing
decisions for retail orders? If yes, what are the factors and should the rule specify
those factors?

102.

Do commenters believe that incentives for equaling or exceeding an agreed upon
order flow volume threshold influence a broker-dealer’s order routing decision for
retail orders? Why or why not? Please explain.

103.

Do commenters believe that disincentives for failing to meet an agreed upon
minimum order flow threshold influence a broker-dealer’s order routing decision
for retail orders? Why or why not? Please explain.

104.

Do commenters believe that volume-based tiered payment schedules influence a
broker-dealer’s order routing decision for retail orders? Why or why not? Please
explain.

131

105.

Do commenters believe that agreements regarding the minimum amount of order
flow that a broker-dealer would send to a venue influence a broker-dealer’s order
routing decision for retail orders? Why or why not? Please explain.

106.

Do comments believe that both written and oral terms that may influence a
broker-dealer’s order routing decision should be required to be disclosed? Why
or why not? Please explain.
4.

Additional Amendments to Retail Disclosures

The Commission is further proposing amendments to remove the requirement that Rule
606(a)(1) report be divided into three separate sections for securities listed on the NYSE,
securities that are qualified for inclusion in NASDAQ, and securities listed on the American
Stock Exchange. 210 First, the Commission notes that the language is stale, as NASDAQ is
currently a national securities exchange and the American Stock Exchange is now known as
NYSE MKT LLC. 211 Second, the Commission preliminarily believes that segmenting retail
order routing reports by primary listing market is no longer necessary or particularly useful to
customers placing retail orders because the handling of NMS stocks no longer varies materially
based on the primary listing market and the primary listing market often is not the dominant
market for the trading of its listed securities. 212 As noted earlier, in 2000, when Rule 606 was
adopted, the primary listing markets looked and operated very differently than they do today.

210

See proposed Rule 606(a)(1).

211

See supra note 76.

212

For example, from February 2005 to February 2014, NYSE’s market share in its listed
securities declined from 78.9% to 20.1%. See Memorandum from the SEC Division of
Trading and Markets to the SEC Market Structure Advisory Committee (April 30, 2015)
(“Rule 611 Memo”), available at http://www.sec.gov/spotlight/emsac/memo-rule-611regulation-nms.pdf.

132

For example, NYSE and the American Stock Exchange were primarily manual markets with
limited electronic trading, while NASDAQ, not yet a national securities exchange, was a quotedriven dealer market. Today, with the adoption of Regulation NMS and the advances in
technology, the primary listing markets are all dominated by electronic trading and the trading
characteristics of securities listed on those markets may no longer warrant separating the routing
report by primary listing market. 213 Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily believes that the
division of reports by listing market is not particularly useful to retail customers interested in
analyzing their broker-dealers’ routing practices. While the Commission recognizes that
eliminating the division of reports by the three distinct listing markets may potentially cause
some reduction in informational content (as further discussed below), the Commission
preliminarily believes that any diminution in granular listing market data is appropriate in light
of the proposed new requirement to provide customers with pertinent retail order routing data
that reflects today’s multiple trading centers and practices.
The Commission is proposing that the public retail order routing reports required by Rule
606(a)(1) be broken down by calendar month. 214 Currently, Rule 606(a)(1) requires brokerdealers to make retail order routing reports publicly available for each calendar quarter, and such
reports contain aggregate quarterly information on the routing of retail orders. As noted above,
the Commission understands that trading centers frequently change their fee structures, including
the amount of fees and rebates, in order to attract order flow, and such changes typically occur at
the beginning of a calendar month. The changes in fee structures at trading centers may affect a
broker-dealer’s routing decisions. Disclosing retail order routing information on an aggregated
213

See FIF Letter, supra note 77, at 3 (stating that order routing practices are no longer based
on listing market).

214

See proposed Rule 606(a)(1).

133

quarterly basis can mask changes in routing behavior in response to changes in a trading center’s
fee structure. The Commission preliminarily believes that disclosing the information contained
in the public retail order routing reports by calendar month would allow customers to better
assess whether their broker-dealers’ routing decisions are affected by changes in fee structures
and the extent such changes affect execution quality. Accordingly, similar to the proposed rule
to require institutional order handling reports to be broken down by calendar month, 215 the
Commission is proposing to amend Rule 606(a)(1) to require that public retail order routing
reports also be broken down by calendar month. 216
In addition, the Commission is proposing that the public retail order routing reports
required by Rule 606(a)(1) and customer-specific retail order routing report required by Rule
606(b)(1) be made available using an XML schema and associated PDF renderer to be published
on the Commission’s Web site. 217 The Commission preliminarily believes that retail customers
would have a similar interest as institutional customers in receiving the reports in a format that
would allow them to use software applications to automatically recognize and process the
information rather than having to manually enter the data to perform a comparison across brokerdealers. The Commission preliminarily believes that requiring both the public and customerspecific retail order routing reports to be provided in the proposed format should be useful to
customers as it would allow them to more easily analyze and compare the data provided in both
types of reports across broker-dealers, for the reasons discussed above. 218

215

See supra Sections III.A.3. and III.A.4.

216

See id.

217

See proposed Rule 606(a)(1).

218

See supra Section III.A.3.

134

The Commission is also proposing to amend Rule 606(a)(1) to require every brokerdealer to keep the reports required pursuant to Rule 606(a)(1) posted on an Internet Web site that
is free of charge and readily accessible to the public for a period of three years from the initial
date of posting on the Internet Web site. Similar to the identical requirement proposed for the
public aggregated institutional order handling report under proposed Rule 606(c), the
Commission preliminarily believes that making this historical data available to customers and the
public generally will be useful to those seeking to analyze past routing behavior of brokerdealers. Should the proposal be adopted, the requirement to post and maintain reports on an
Internet Web site that is free and readily accessible to the public would begin at that time and
apply going forward. Affected entities would not be required to post past reports created prior to
the proposed Rule’s effectiveness, but such entities would be neither prevented nor discouraged
from posting such reports.
Finally, the Commission proposes to insert the term “retail” in the heading of Rule
606(a), 219 to state “Quarterly report on retail order routing.” The Commission preliminarily
believes that such distinction between retail order routing information referred to in Rule 606(a)
and institutional order handling information proposed in Rule 606(b) will help clarify the
requirements of broker-dealers’ reporting obligations under the Rules.
The Commission seeks comment on the proposed amendments to retail order routing
disclosures. In particular, the Commission solicits comment on the following:
107.

Do commenters believe that it continues to be useful for options to be included in
disclosures for retail orders pursuant to Rule 606, in light of the fact that the
proposal with respect to institutional orders would exclude options?

219

See proposed Rule 606(a).

135

108.

Should the Commission require retail order routing reports, both customerspecific and public, to be made available using an XML schema and associated
PDF renderer? Why or why not?

109.

Do commenters believe that broker-dealers should be required to provide the
customer-specific and aggregated reports on retail order routing in the proposed
format? Why or why not? Do commenters believe that it is useful to customers
for broker-dealers to provide the reports in a structured XML format that would
facilitate comparison of the data across broker-dealers? If not, why not? Should
only the customer-specific report be provided in a structured XML format?
Should only the aggregated report be provided in a structured XML format? Do
commenters believe that it is useful to customers for broker-dealers to also
provide the reports in an instantly readable PDF format? If not, why not? Are
there other formats that would be more appropriate?

110.

Do commenters believe that it is appropriate to remove the requirement to report
retail order routing information by listing market (NYSE, NASDAQ, and the
American Stock Exchange (n/k/a NYSE MKT LLC))? Why or why not?

111.

Do commenters believe that the retail order routing report divided by the three
listing markets continues to be relevant and useful to customers placing retail
orders and/or analyzing their broker-dealer’s routing practices? Why or why not?

112.

Do commenters believe that alternative or additional criterion should be required
in reports regarding retail order routing such as market capitalization or security
type (e.g., exchange-traded products or NMS stocks)? If so, please explain why

136

should such criterion be used to report retail order routing information? Please
provide data to support your arguments.
113.

Do commenters believe that retail order routing information organized by stocks
included in the S&P 500 Index and stocks not included in the S&P 500 Index
versus by listing market or by NMS stocks would be useful to customers? Why
or why not? Please explain.

114.

Do commenters believe that it is reasonable and appropriate to require that the
retail order routing reports be broken down by calendar month? Should the
Commission require the retail order routing reports be produced on a different
frequency than quarterly (e.g., monthly)? Why or why not? What are the
incremental burdens or benefits of providing reports at a different frequency?
Please explain.

115.

Do commenters believe that the Commission should require each retail order
routing report be publicly available for a designated amount of time, as proposed?
If so, is three years a reasonable amount of time that the reports should be
available? Would a shorter or longer disclosure period be useful to investors
and/or onerous to broker-dealers? Please explain.

116.

Broker-dealers currently are required to make publicly available for each calendar
quarter their quarterly reports on retail order routing and retain such reports for a
period of not less than three years. Generally, broker-dealers will remove the
previous quarterly report from their Web site and replace it with their most recent
quarterly report. Since past quarterly reports are already required to be retained
by broker-dealers, should the Commission require broker-dealers to make

137

publicly available the prior three years’ worth of quarterly reports from the
effective date of the rule? Why or why not?
117.

Should the Commission require all broker-dealers to make their public retail order
routing reports available on one centralized website? For example, should all
broker-dealer reports be available on the SEC’s or an SRO’s website? Why or
why not?
5.

Amendment to Rule 600(b)(18) to rename “Customer Order” to

“Retail Order”
Finally, the Commission proposes to amend Rule 600(b)(18) to rename the defined term
“customer order” to “retail order,” and to amend Rules 600(b)(19), 600(b)(23), 600(b)(48), 605,
606, and 607 to reflect such change. “Customer order” is currently defined in Rule 600(b)(18) to
include smaller-sized orders in NMS securities. 220 As discussed above, the Commission is
proposing to define institutional order to include larger-sized orders in NMS stocks. 221 Since
“retail” generally connotes orders of a smaller size and “institutional” generally connotes orders
of a larger size, the Commission preliminarily believes it is appropriate to rename “customer
order” to “retail order” in connection with this proposed rulemaking. The Commission
preliminarily believes that such change would clarify to market participants that the defined
terms are based on the size of the order.
The Commission requests comment on the proposal to rename the defined term
“customer order” to “retail order.” In particular, the Commission solicits comment on the
following:
220

See 17 CFR 242.600(b)(18) and supra note 7 and accompanying text.

221

See proposed Rule 600(b)(31) and supra Section III.A.1.

138

118.

Do commenters believe that the proposed change is appropriate? Do commenters
believe that such change would provide clarity to market participants? Are there
alternative ways to distinguish small and large-sized orders? Please provide
support for your arguments.

C.

Amendment to Disclosure of Order Execution Information

The Commission is proposing to amend Rule 605(a)(2) to require market centers to keep
reports required pursuant to Rule 605(a)(1) posted on an Internet Web site that is free of charge
and readily accessible to the public for a period of three years from the initial date of posting on
the Internet Web site. Similar to the analogous requirements proposed in Rules 606(a) and
606(c) described above, the Commission preliminarily believes that making past order execution
information available to customers and the public generally for a specified period of time will be
beneficial to those seeking to analyze historical order execution information at various market
centers. Should the proposal be adopted, the requirement to post and maintain reports on an
Internet Web site that is free of charge and readily accessible to the public would begin at that
time and apply going forward. Affected entities would not be required to post reports covering
periods prior to the proposed Rule’s effectiveness.
The Commission requests comment on the proposed amendments to the disclosure of
order execution information. In particular, the Commission solicits comment on the following:
119.

Do commenters believe that the monthly electronic reports required by Rule
605(a) should be publicly available for a designated amount of time? If so, is
three years a reasonable amount of time that the reports should be available?
Would a shorter or longer disclosure period be useful to investors placing
institutional orders and/or onerous to broker-dealers? Please explain.

139

IV.

Paperwork Reduction Act
Certain provisions of these proposed amendments contain “collection of information
requirements” within the meaning of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (“PRA”). 222 The

Commission is submitting these collections of information to the Office of Management and
Budget (“OMB”) for review in accordance with 44 U.S.C. 3507(d) and 5 CFR 1320.11. The
current collection of information for Rule 606 entitled “Disclosure of order routing information”
is being modified in a way that creates new collection of information burden estimates and
modifies existing collection of information burden estimates. The existing collection of
information for Rule 605 entitled “Disclosure of order execution information” is being modified
in manner that does not alter the collection of information burden estimate. An agency may not
conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless
the agency displays a currently valid control number.
A.

Summary of Collection of Information

The proposed amendments to Rule 606 would include a collection of information within
the meaning of the PRA for broker-dealers who receive and route retail and institutional orders.
1.

Customer Requests for Information on Institutional Orders

As detailed above, proposed Rule 606(b)(3) of Regulation NMS would require a brokerdealer, on request of a customer that places, directly or indirectly, an institutional order with the
broker-dealer, to electronically disclose to such customer within seven business days of receiving
the request, a report on the broker-dealer’s handling of institutional orders for that customer for
the prior six months, broken down by calendar month. Specifically, the report would contain
certain information on the customer’s order flow with the reporting broker-dealer as well as
222

44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.

140

certain columns of information on institutional orders handled by the broker-dealer, as described
below, categorized by venue and by order routing strategy category – passive, neutral, and
aggressive – for each venue. The required columns of information include four groups of
information: (1) information on institutional order routing; (2) information on institutional order
execution; (3) information on institutional orders that provided liquidity; and (4) information on
institutional orders that removed liquidity. 223
With regard to information about the customer’s order flow with the reporting brokerdealer, the Commission is proposing to require disclosure of: (1) total number of shares of
institutional orders sent to the broker-dealer by the customer during the reporting period; (2) total
number of shares executed by the broker-dealer as principal for its own account; (3) total number
of institutional orders exposed by the broker-dealer through an actionable indication of interest;
and (4) venue or venues to which institutional orders were exposed by the broker- dealer through
an actionable indication of interest. 224
With regard to information on institutional order routing, the Commission is proposing to
require disclosure of: (1) total shares routed; (2) total shares routed marked immediate or cancel;
(3) total shares routed that were further routable; (4) average order size routed. 225
With regard to information on institutional order execution, the Commission is proposing
to require disclosure of: (1) total shares executed; (2) fill rate; 226 (3) average fill size; 227 (4)

223

See supra Section III.A.4.

224

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3).

225

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(i)(A)-(D).

226

Fill rate would be calculated by the shares executed divided by the shares routed.

227

Average fill size would be the average size, by number of shares, of each order executed
on the venue.

141

average net execution fee or rebate; 228 (5) total number of shares executed at the midpoint; (6)
percentage of shares executed at the midpoint; (7) total number of shares executed that were
priced on the side of the spread more favorable to the institutional order; (8) percentage of total
shares executed that were priced on the side of the spread more favorable to the institutional
order; (9) total number of shares executed that were priced on the side of the spread less
favorable to the institutional order; and (10) percentage of total shares executed that were priced
on the side of the spread less favorable to the institutional order. 229
With regard to information on institutional orders that provided liquidity, the
Commission is proposing to require disclosure of: (1) total number of shares executed of orders
providing liquidity; (2) percentage of shares executed of orders providing liquidity; (3) average
time between order entry and execution or cancellation for orders providing liquidity (in
milliseconds); and (4) average net execution rebate or fee for shares of orders providing liquidity
(cents per 100 shares, specified to four decimal places). 230
Finally, with regard to information on institutional orders that removed liquidity, the
Commission is proposing to require disclosure of: (1) total number of shares executed of orders
removing liquidity; (2) percentage of shares executed of orders removing liquidity; and (3)
average net execution fee or rebate for shares of orders removing liquidity (cents per 100 shares,
specified to four decimal places). 231

228

The fee and rebate would be measured in cents per 100 shares.

229

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(ii)(A) – (J).

230

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(iii)(A) – (D).

231

See proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(i)(A) – (C).

142

2.

Public Aggregated Report on Institutional Orders

Proposed Rule 606(c) of Regulation NMS would require a broker-dealer that receives
institutional orders to make publicly available a report that aggregates the information required
for customer-specific reports pursuant to proposed Rule 606(b)(3) for all institutional orders the
broker-dealer receives, regardless of whether the information was requested by a customer and
that such report would be broken down by calendar month. A broker-dealer would be required
to make such report publicly available for each calendar quarter within one month after the end
of the quarter. Broker-dealers would also be required to keep such reports posted on an Internet
Web site that is free and readily accessible to the public for a period of three years from the
initial date of posting on the Internet Web site.
3.

Requirement to Document Methodologies for Categorizing

Institutional Order Routing Strategies
Proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(v) would require broker-dealers to provide the required
information for each venue broken down and classified by the following order routing strategy
category: (1) “passive order routing strategy,” which emphasize the minimization of price
impact over the speed of execution of the entire institutional order; (2) “neutral order routing
strategy,” which are relatively neutral between the minimization of price impact and the speed of
execution of the entire institutional order; and (3) “aggressive order routing strategy,” which
emphasize the speed of execution of the entire institutional order over the minimization of price
impact. The proposed rule would require the broker-dealer to assign each order routing strategy
that it uses for institutional orders to one of these three categories in a consistent manner for each
report it prepares, promptly update the assignments any time an existing strategy is amended or a
new strategy is created that would change such assignments, and to document the specific

143

methodologies it relies upon for making such assignments. The Commission is proposing to
require every broker-dealer to preserve a copy of the methodologies used to assign its order
routing strategies and maintain such copy as part of its books and records in a manner consistent
with Rule 17a-4(b) under the Exchange Act.
4.

Amendment to Current Disclosures With Respect to Retail Orders

The proposed amendments to Rule 606(a) of Regulation NMS would: (1) break down
the existing limit order disclosure into separate categories of marketable limit orders and nonmarketable limit orders; (2) require that for each Specified Venue, the broker-dealer must report
the net aggregate amount of any payment for order flow received, payment from any profitsharing relationship received, transaction fees paid, and transaction rebates received, both as a
total dollar amount and on a per share basis, for each of the following order types: (i) market
orders; (ii) marketable limit orders; (iii) non-marketable limit orders; and (iv) other orders; (3)
require broker-dealers to describe specific aspects of any terms of payment for order flow
arrangements and profit-sharing relationships, whether written or oral, with a Specified Venue
that may influence their order routing decisions, including: (i) incentives for equaling or
exceeding an agreed upon order flow volume threshold, such as additional payments or a higher
rate of payment; (ii) disincentives for failing to meet an agreed upon minimum order flow
threshold, such as lower payments or the requirement to pay a fee; (iii) volume-based tiered
payment schedules; and (iv) agreements regarding the minimum amount of order flow that the
broker-dealer would send to a venue; (4) require that such reports be broken down by calendar
month; (5) require that such reports be kept posted on an Internet Web site that is free and readily
accessible to the public for a period of three years from the initial date of posting on the Internet
Web site; and (6) remove the requirement that the Rule 606(a)(1) report be divided into three

144

separate categories by listing market. Instead, the information required under Rule 606(a)(1)
would be aggregated for all NMS stocks. The proposed amendments would require reports
produced pursuant to Rules 606(a) and 606(b)(1) to be formatted in the most recent versions of
the XML schema and the associated PDF renderer as published on the Commission’s Web site.
5.

Amendment to Current Disclosures under Rule 605

The Commission is proposing to amend Rule 605(a)(2) to require market centers to keep
reports required pursuant to the Rule 605(a)(1) posted on an Internet Web site that is free of
charge and readily accessible to the public for a period of three years from the initial date of
posting on the Internet Web site.
B.

Proposed Use of Information

Generally, the order routing disclosures required under the proposed amendments to Rule
606 would provide detailed information to both institutional and retail customers that would
enable them to evaluate how their orders were routed by their broker-dealers, assess conflicts of
interest facing their broker-dealers in providing order routing services, and have the ability to
engage in informed discussions with their broker-dealers about the broker-dealer’s order routing
practices. The proposed order routing disclosures could inform future decisions on whether to
retain a broker-dealer’s order routing services or engage the order routing services of a new
broker-dealer. In addition, broker-dealers may use the public disclosures to compete on the basis
of order routing services, and academics and others may use the public disclosures pursuant to
Rules 605 and 606 to review and analyze broker-dealer routing practices and trading center order
executions.

145

1.

Customer Requests for Information on Institutional Orders

The order handling disclosures proposed under Rule 606(b)(3) would provide detailed
order routing and execution information to a customer regarding its specific institutional orders
during the reporting period. Generally, the five groups of information contained in the
institutional order handling report would enable customers to understand where and how their
institutional orders were routed or exposed as well as where their orders were executed during
the reporting period. Customers could use the information contained in an institutional order
handling report to assess any considerations a broker-dealer may have faced when routing its
orders to various venues, whether those considerations may have affected how a broker-dealer
routed its orders, and whether those considerations may have affected its execution equality.
Specifically, customers would be able to review each venue to which their institutional
orders were routed and identify potential conflicts of interest, affiliations, or business
arrangements between their broker-dealer and the venue and assess whether large volumes of
orders or certain order types were directed to venues from which the broker-dealer may receive
significant economic benefit. The information provided in the institutional order handling report
could further be used by customers to assess whether a broker-dealer’s order routing practices
may have led to risks of information leakage. In addition, the information contained in the
institutional order handling report would enable investors to assess, monitor, and generally
determine the overall execution quality received from a broker-dealer. As noted above,
customers could use the proposed order handling disclosures to inform future decisions on
whether to retain a broker-dealer’s order routing services or engage the order routing services of
a new broker-dealer.

146

2.

Public Aggregated Report on Institutional Orders

Proposed Rule 606(c) would require a broker-dealer that receives institutional orders to
make publicly available a report that aggregates the information enumerated in proposed Rule
606(b)(3), even if not requested by a customer. The proposed public aggregated institutional
order handling reports would enable customers to use a standardized set of information to
compare how broker-dealers handle institutional orders and use such information in determining
whether to retain the services of a broker-dealer or engage the services of a new broker-dealer.
Broker-dealers could use the aggregated information to compare its order handling services
against other broker-dealers, which could improve competition among broker-dealers on the
basis of order routing and execution quality. In addition, academic researchers and others could
use the public aggregated institutional order handling information for research and analysis.
Further, third-party vendors offering analytical services may use the information in the public
reports in an attempt to sell customized reporting tools and services.
3.

Requirement to Document Methodologies for Categorizing

Institutional Order Routing Strategies
Broker-dealers would assign order routing strategies into passive, neutral, and aggressive
categories, applying consistent classification of their order routing strategies for purposes of
producing customer-specific and public aggregated institutional order handling reports, and
promptly update the assignments any time an existing strategy is amended or a new strategy is
created that would change such assignments. Regulators, including the Commission, could use
the documented methodologies as a reference in determining whether a broker-dealer is
consistently classifying and applying its order routing strategies for reporting purposes.

147

4.

Amendment to Current Disclosures With Respect to Retail Orders

The proposed amendment to Rule 606(a) to break down the existing limit order
disclosure in the retail order routing reports into separate categories of marketable limit orders
and non-marketable limit orders could be used by customers to assess the differences in the ways
broker-dealers route these specific order types. Customers could use the information contained
in the retail order routing reports to assess potential conflicts of interest its broker-dealers face
with respect to routing these distinct order types, particularly with respect to the economic
incentives received from trading centers. Customers could use this information to determine
whether to retain a broker-dealer’s services or engage the services of a new broker-dealer, which
could foster competition among broker-dealers on the basis of quality of order routing and
execution. In addition, academic researchers and others could use this information for research
and analysis.
The proposed requirement that a broker-dealer disclose the net aggregate amount of any
payment for order flow received, payment from any profit-sharing relationship received,
transaction fees paid, and transaction rebates received, both as a total dollar amount an on a per
share basis, for specified non-directed order types for each Specified Venue could allow
customers to determine how broker-dealers route different types of orders relative to any
economic benefit or consequence to the broker-dealer. Customers could use this information to
further assess whether their broker-dealers’ routing decisions may be influenced by conflicts of
interest. The requirement in proposed Rule 606(a)(1) that the quarterly reports be broken down
by calendar month could allow customers to determine whether and how their broker-dealer’s
routing decisions changed in response to changing fee and rebate structures in the marketplace,
which often change at the beginning of a calendar month. The proposed requirement that such

148

reports be kept posted on an Internet Web site for three years could allow customers and others,
such as researchers, to analyze historical routing behavior of particular broker-dealers. In
addition, the proposed requirement for broker-dealers to describe any terms of payment for order
flow arrangements and profit-sharing relationships with a Specified Venue that may influence
their order routing decisions, including information relating to specific incentives or volume
minimums, could allow customers to understand how their broker-dealers route retail orders and
whether and how such routing is influenced by payment for order flow and/or a profit-sharing
relationship.
5.

Amendment to Current Disclosures under Rule 605

The requirement that reports required under Rule 605 be kept posted on an Internet Web
site that is free of charge and readily accessible to the public for a period of three years from the
initial date of posting on the Internet Web site could allow customers and others, such as
researchers, to analyze historical order execution quality at various market centers. The three
years of data could be useful to those seeking to analyze how execution quality has changed over
time, in addition to changes in response to regulatory or other developments.
C.

Respondents

The respondents to these proposed amendments would be broker-dealers that route retail
or institutional orders and market centers that create reports pursuant to Rule 605. As of
December 2015, the Commission estimates that there were approximately 4,156 total registered
broker-dealers. 232 Of these, the Commission estimates 266 are broker-dealers that route retail

232

The Commission is basing its estimate off data compiled from responses to Form BD.

149

orders. 233 The Commission estimates that 200 broker-dealers are involved in the practice of
routing institutional orders, all of whom also route retail orders. 234 The Commission estimates
that there are 380 market centers to which Rule 605 applies. 235 The Commission requests
comment on the accuracy of these estimated figures.
D.

Total Initial and Annual Reporting and Recordkeeping Burdens
1.

Customer Requests for Information on Institutional Orders
a. Initial Reporting and Recordkeeping Burden

The Commission preliminarily believes that many broker-dealers that route institutional
orders already create and retain the order handling information required by the proposed changes
to Rule 606(b)(3). In such cases, the initial burden to comply with the requirement would be
significantly lower than for a broker-dealer whose systems do not already create and retain the
required information. In addition, the Commission preliminarily believes that many brokerdealers who do not have proprietary systems which create and retain order handling information
use third-party service providers to allow them to create and retain the information required by
the proposed changes to Rule 606(b)(3). For this reason, the Commission is providing two
estimates below, one for broker-dealers that route institutional orders whose systems do not
currently support creating and retaining the information required by Rule 606(b)(3) who will
233

See id. The Commission estimates that both clearing brokers and introducing brokers
route retail orders. The Commission notes that the term “retail order” refers to “customer
order” defined in Rule 600 (b)(18) of Regulation NMS. See supra note 7 and
accompanying text.

234

See id. Using Form BD data, the Commission estimates that clearing brokers and some
introducing brokers route institutional orders.

235

The Commission derived this estimate based on the following: 236 OTC market makers
(not including market makers claiming an exemption from the reporting requirements of
the Rule), plus 12 exchanges, 1 securities association, 86 exchange market makers, and
45 ATSs.

150

upgrade their systems either in-house or via a third-party service provider, and another for
broker-dealers that route institutional orders whose systems currently do create and retain such
information, including those that use a third-party service provider whose systems currently
obtain such information.
The Commission preliminarily believes that most broker-dealers either have systems that
currently obtain the information required by the proposed rule, or use third-party service
providers who have systems that obtain such information. The Commission further preliminarily
believes that all broker-dealers have systems in place that at least capture some of the
information required by the proposed rule. Of the 200 broker-dealers involved in routing
institutional orders, the Commission estimates that 25 broker-dealers that route institutional
orders do not currently have systems that obtain all of the information required by the proposed
amendments. 236 The Commission estimates that these 25 broker-dealers would be able to
perform the required enhancements in-house, but could also use a third-party service provider.
As discussed further below, the Commission further estimates that, after required systems
enhancements were performed, all broker-dealers would capture the necessary information inhouse, but some broker-dealers would create the required reports in-house, while other brokerdealers would engage third parties to create the reports.
Based on discussions with industry sources, the Commission estimates that the average
one-time, initial burden for broker-dealers that route institutional orders that do not currently
create and retain the proposed order handling information to program systems in-house to
implement the requirements of the proposed amendments to Rule 606(b)(3) in-house would be

236

This estimate was based on discussions with various industry participants.

151

200 hours 237 per broker-dealer. The Commission estimates the average one-time, initial burden
for broker-dealers that route institutional orders that do not currently create and retain the
proposed order handling information to engage a third-party to program the broker-dealers’
systems to implement the requirements of the proposed amendments to Rule 606(b)(3) to be 50
hours 238 and $35,000. 239 The Commission estimates that of the 25 broker-dealers that route
institutional orders who do not currently have systems in place to capture the information
required by the rule, 10 such broker-dealers will perform the necessary programming upgrades
in-house, and 15 will engage a third-party to perform the programming upgrades. Additionally,
of the 25 broker-dealers that route institutional orders who do not currently have systems in place
to capture the information required by the proposed rule, the Commission estimates that 10 such
broker-dealers will need to purchase hardware and software upgrades to fulfill the requirements
of the proposed rule at an average cost of $15,000 per broker-dealer, and that the remaining 15
broker-dealers have adequate hardware and software to capture the information proposed by the
rule. Therefore, the total initial burden for broker-dealers that route institutional orders who do

237

The Commission estimates the monetized burden for this requirement to be $60,420. The
Commission derived this estimate based on per hour figures from SIFMA’s Management
& Professional Earnings in the Securities Industry 2013: (Sr. Programmer at $303 per
hour for 100 hours) + (Sr. Database Administrator at $312 per hour for 40 hours) + (Sr.
Business Analyst at $251 per hour for 40 hours) + (Attorney at $380 per hour for 20
hours) = 200 hours and $60,420. This burden hour estimate was based on discussions
with various industry participants.

238

The Commission estimates the monetized burden for this requirement to be $15,125. The
Commission derived this estimate based on per hour figures from SIFMA’s Management
& Professional Earnings in the Securities Industry 2013: (Compliance Manager at $283
per hour for 20 hours) + (Sr. Business Analyst at $251 per hour for 15 hours) + (Attorney
at $380 per hour for 15 hours) = 200 hours and $15,125. This burden hour estimate was
based on discussions with various industry participants.

239

The Commission estimates that, on average, a third-party service provider would charge
$35,000 to perform the necessary work.

152

not currently capture order handling information required by the proposed rule to program their
systems to produce a report to comply with the proposed rule change is 2,750 hours 240 and
$675,000. 241
A broker-dealer that routes institutional orders whose systems already capture the data
required by the proposed rule would need to format its systems to produce a report that complies
with the proposed rule. The Commission estimates the average burden for a broker-dealer who
already captures information required by the proposed rule to format its systems to produce a
report to comply with the proposed rule would be 40 hours. 242

The Commission estimates that

125 broker-dealers would format systems to produce the reports in-house. A broker-dealer that
routes institutional orders who uses a third-party service provider to produce reports using such
order handling information would need to need to work with the vendor to ensure the proper data
is captured in the reports. The Commission estimates 50 broker-dealers that route institutional
orders would use a third-party vendor to ensure data required by the rule is captured in the

240

200 hours per broker-dealer who routes institutional orders who does not currently obtain
data required by the proposed rule who will upgrade its own systems x 10 such brokerdealers + 50 hours per broker-dealer who will engage a third-party to perform the
necessary systems upgrades x 15 such broker-dealers = 2,750 hours. The Commission
estimates the total monetized burden for this requirement to be $831,075 (10 routing
broker-dealers who will perform upgrades in-house x $60,420 = $604,200) + (15 brokerdealers who will engage a third-party x $15,125 = $226,875) = $831,075). See supra
notes 237 and 238.

241

($35,000 per broker-dealer who will engage a third-party x 15 such broker-dealers) +
($15,000 per broker-dealer who will need to purchase hardware and software upgrades x
10 such broker-dealers) = $675.000. See supra note 239.

242

The Commission estimates the monetized burden for this requirement to be $12,084. The
Commission derived this estimate based on per hour figures from SIFMA’s Management
& Professional Earnings in the Securities Industry 2013: (Sr. Programmer at $303 per
hour for 20 hours) + (Sr. Database Administrator at $312 per hour for 8 hours) + (Sr.
Business Analyst at $251 per hour for 8 hours) + (Attorney at $380 per hour for 4 hours)
= 40 hours and $12,084.

153

reports. The Commission estimates the average burden for a broker-dealer who uses a thirdparty service provider to work with such service provider to ensure proper reports are produced
would be 20 hours 243 and $5,000. 244 The Commission preliminarily believes that broker-dealers
whose systems currently capture and retain information required by the rule would not need to
purchase hardware or software upgrades. Thus, the total burden for broker-dealers who currently
obtain the required data but need to format their systems, or work with their data provider, to
prepare a report to comply with the proposed rule is 6,000 hours 245 and $250,000. 246 Therefore,
the estimated total initial burden to comply with proposed Rule 606(b)(3) is 8,750 hours 247 and
$925,000. 248

243

The Commission estimates the monetized burden for this requirement to be $5,726. The
Commission derived this estimate based on per hour figures from SIFMA’s Management
& Professional Earnings in the Securities Industry 2013: (Compliance Manager at $283
per hour for 14 hours) + (Sr. Business Analyst at $251 per hour for 4 hours) + (Attorney
at $380 per hour for 2 hours) = 20 hours and $5,726.

244

The Commission estimates a third-party service provider working with a broker-dealer
whose systems currently capture and retain information required by the rule would, on
average, charge $5,000 to program the systems to create a report that complies with the
rule.

245

40 hours per broker-dealer who needs to format its systems to prepare a report x 125
broker-dealers who need to format their systems to prepare a report + 20 hours per
broker-dealer who needs to work with a third-party vendor to ensure a proper report is
produced x 50 broker-dealers who need to work with third-party vendors = 6,000 hours.
The Commission estimates the monetized burden for this requirement to be $1,796,800
($12,084 per broker-dealer who needs to format its systems to prepare a report x 125 such
broker-dealers + $5,726 per broker-dealer who needs to work with a third-party vendor to
ensure a proper report is produced x 50 such broker-dealers = $1,796,800). See supra
notes 242 and 243.

246

$5,000 per broker-dealer who works with a third-party vendor to ensure proper reports
are produced x 50 such broker-dealers = $250,000. See supra note 244.

247

2,750 hours for broker-dealers who need to format their systems to obtain the information
required by the proposed rule and prepare reports + 6,000 hours for broker-dealers who
currently obtain such information and need to format their systems or work with their
third-party vendor to prepare a report to comply with the rule = 8,750 hours. The
Commission estimates the total monetized burden for this requirement to be $2,627,875
154

The Commission requests comment regarding the accuracy of its estimate as to how
many broker-dealers that route institutional orders are currently able to obtain the information
required by the proposed rules and the estimated burden hours necessary to comply with the
proposal.
b. Annual Reporting and Recordkeeping Burden
Proposed Rule 606(b)(3) requires broker-dealers to respond to individual customer
requests for information on institutional orders. The Commission estimates that 135 of the 200
broker-dealers that route institutional orders would respond to proposed Rule 606(b)(3) requests
in-house. 249 The Commission estimates that an average response to a Rule 606(b)(3) request for
a broker-dealer who responds to such requests in-house will take approximately 2 hours per
response. 250 The Commission estimates that an average broker-dealer will receive

($831,075 for broker-dealers who need to format their systems either on their own or by
using a third-party to obtain the information required by the proposed rule + $1,796,800
for broker-dealers who currently obtain such information and need to format their
systems or work with their third-party vendor to prepare a report to comply with the rule
= $2,627,875). See supra notes 240 and 245.
248

($35,000 per broker-dealer who will engage a third-party x 15 such broker-dealers) +
($15,000 per broker-dealer who will need to purchase hardware and software upgrades x
10 such broker-dealers) + ($5,000 per broker-dealer who works with a third-party vendor
to work with such vendor to ensure proper reports are produced x 50 such broker-dealers)
= $975,000. See supra notes 241 and 246.

249

The Commission estimates that the 125 broker-dealers estimated already to capture the
information that would be required plus the 10 broker-dealers that would do systems
work in-house who do not currently capture the information that would be required
would respond to Rule 606(b)(3) requests in-house.

250

Based on discussions with industry participants, the Commission estimates that each
response will require a Jr. Business Analyst for 1 hour and a Programmer Analyst for 1
hour. Thus, the burden estimate is calculated as follows: Jr. Business Analyst at $160
per hour for 1 hour, and a Programmer Analyst at $220 per hour for 1 hour, for a total
burden of 2 hours and $380 per report. The Commission derived this estimate based on
155

approximately 200 requests annually. 251 Therefore, on average, a broker-dealer who responds to
606(b)(3) requests in-house will incur an estimated annual burden of 400 hours to prepare,
disseminate, and retain responses to customers required by Rule 606(b)(3). 252 With an estimated
135 broker-dealers who route institutional orders who will respond to 606(b)(3) requests inhouse, the estimated total annual burden for such 135 broker-dealers to comply with the
customer response requirement in proposed Rule 606(b)(3) is 54,000 hours. 253
For the 65 broker-dealers that route institutional orders who are anticipated to use a thirdparty service provider to respond to requests pursuant to Rule 606(b)(3), the Commission
estimates the burden to be 1 hour 254 and $100 per response. 255 With an estimated 200 requests
pursuant to Rule 606(b)(3) per year, the Commission estimates that on average, the annual
burden for a broker-dealer who uses a third-party service provider to respond to requests

per hour figures from SIFMA’s Management & Professional Earnings in the Securities
Industry 2013.
251

This estimate was based on discussions with various industry participants.

252

2 hours per request x 200 annual requests = 400 hours. The Commission estimates the
total monetized burden for this requirement to be $76,000 annually (200 annual requests
x $380 per request = $76,000). See supra note 250.

253

400 hours annually per broker-dealer that routes institutional orders who will respond to
requests in-house x 135 such broker-dealers = 54,000 hours. The Commission estimates
the total monetized burden for this requirement to be $10,260,000 ($76,000 per brokerdealer that routes institutional orders that will respond to requests in-house x 135 such
broker-dealers = $10,260,000). See id.

254

The Commission estimates the monetized burden for this requirement to be $283. The
Commission derived this estimate based on per hour figures from SIFMA’s Management
& Professional Earnings in the Securities Industry 2013: Compliance Manager at $283
per hour for 1 hour = $283.

255

The Commission estimates a third-party service provider would charge on average $100
to respond to requests pursuant to the rule.

156

pursuant to Rule 606(b)(3) will be 200 hours 256 and $20,000. With an estimated 65 brokerdealers that route institutional orders who will respond to Rule 606(b)(3) requests using a thirdparty-service provider, the Commission estimates the total annual burden for such 65 brokerdealers will be 13,000 hours 257 and $1,300,000. 258
Therefore, the total annual burden for all 200 broker-dealers that route institutional orders
to comply with the customer response requirement in proposed Rule 606(b)(3) is estimated to be
67,000 hours 259 and $1,300,000. 260
2.

Public Aggregated Report on Institutional Orders
c. Initial Reporting and Recordkeeping Burden

Once a broker-dealer that routes institutional orders has systems in place to record and
report the information required by proposed Rule 606(b)(3) to individual customers, the brokerdealer creating the quarterly public aggregated institutional order handling reports in-house will
256

1 hour per broker-dealer who will use a third-party service provider per request x 200
requests annually = 200 hours. The Commission estimates the monetized burden for this
requirement to be $56,600 (200 annual requests x $283 per request = $56,600). See supra
note 254.

257

200 hours annual per broker-dealer who will use a third-party service provider x 65 such
broker-dealers = 13,000 hours. The Commission estimates the monetized burden for this
requirement to be $3,679,000 ($56,600 annually per broker-dealer who will use a thirdparty service provider x 65 such broker-dealers = $3,679,000). See id.

258

$100 per request x 200 requests annually x 65 broker-dealers who will use a third-party
service provider = $1,300,000. See supra note 255.

259

400 hours annually per broker-dealer that routes institutional orders who will respond to
requests in-house x 135 such broker-dealers + 200 hours annually per broker-dealer who
routes institutional orders who will use a third-party to respond to requests x 65 such
broker-dealers = 67,000 hours. The Commission estimates the total monetized burden for
this requirement to be $13,939,000 ($10,260,000 for broker-dealers that route
institutional orders who will respond to requests in-house + $3,679,000 for broker-dealers
that route institutional orders who will use a third-party service provider to respond to
requests = $13,939,000). See supra notes 253 and 257.

260

See supra note 258.

157

need to configure its systems to aggregate the information required by proposed Rule 606(c) or
use a third-party service provider to create such reports. Once the systems to obtain such
information are in place, the Commission estimates that broker-dealers or their third-party
service providers would incur a modest additional burden or cost to format such data into an
aggregated report. The Commission estimates that some broker-dealers will format these reports
themselves in-house while others will use a third-party service provider to format the reports.
The Commission estimates that a broker-dealer who routes institutional orders which formats
and creates the required reports itself would incur an initial burden of 20 hours to comply with
the quarterly reporting requirement of proposed Rule 606(c). 261 The Commission estimates that
a broker-dealer who uses a third-party service provide to create the necessary reports would incur
an initial burden of 5 hours 262 and $2,500. 263 The Commission estimates that consistent with the
estimates above about reports pursuant to proposed Rule 606(b)(3), 135 broker-dealers who
route institutional orders will create the required reports themselves while 65 broker-dealers will
use a third-party service provider to create the required reports. Therefore, the estimated total

261

The Commission estimates the monetized burden for this requirement to be $4,990. The
Commission derived this estimate based on per hour figures from SIFMA’s Management
& Professional Earnings in the Securities Industry 2013: Programmer at $248 per hour
for 10 hours + Sr. Business Analyst at $251 per hour for 10 hours = 20 hours and $4,990.

262

The Commission estimates the monetized burden for this requirement to be $1,415. The
Commission derived this estimate based on per hour figures from SIFMA’s Management
& Professional Earnings in the Securities Industry 2013: Compliance Manager at $283
per hour for 5 hours = $1,415.

263

The Commission estimates a third-party service provider would charge on average
$2,500 to format a broker-dealer’s data to produce a report to comply with the rule.

158

initial burden for broker-dealers that route institutional orders to produce the quarterly report is
3,025 hours 264 and $162,500. 265
d. Annual Reporting and Recordkeeping Burden
The Commission estimates that each broker-dealer that routes institutional orders who
prepares its reports in-house will incur an average burden of 10 hours 266 to prepare and make
publicly available a quarterly report in the format required by proposed Rule 606(c), or a burden
of 40 hours per year. 267 Once a report is posted on an internet website, the Commission does not
estimate that there would be an additional burden to allow the report to remain posted for the
period of time specified in the rule. With an estimated 135 broker-dealers that route institutional
orders that will prepare their own reports, the total burden per year to comply with the quarterly
reporting requirement in proposed Rule 606(c) is estimated to be 5,400 hours. 268

264

20 hours per broker-dealer that routes institutional orders who will create the required
reports itself x 135 such broker-dealers + 5 hours per broker-dealer that routes
institutional orders who uses a third-party service provider to create the required reports
itself x 65 such broker-dealers = 3,025 hours. The Commission estimates the total
monetized burden for this requirement to be $765,625 ($4,990 per broker-dealer that
routes institutional orders x 135 such broker-dealers + $1,415 per broker-dealer who uses
a third-party service provider to create the required reports x 65 such broker-dealers =
$765,625). See supra notes 261 and 262.

265

$2,500 per broker-dealer who uses a third-party service provider to create the required
reports x 65 such broker-dealers = $162,500. See supra note 263.

266

The monetized cost for this burden requirement was derived as follows: (Jr. Business
Analyst at $160 per hour for 10 hours = $1,600). The Commission derived this estimate
based on per hour figures from SIFMA’s Management & Professional Earnings in the
Securities Industry 2013.

267

10 hours per broker-dealer that routes institutional orders per quarter x 4 quarters = 40
hours per broker-dealer that routes institutional orders. The Commission estimates the
total monetized burden for this requirement to be $6,400 ($1,600 per broker-dealer that
routes institutional orders per quarter x 4 quarters = $6,400). See id.

268

40 hours annually per broker-dealer that routes institutional orders x 135 broker-dealers
that route institutional orders = 5,400 hours. The Commission estimates the total
159

The Commission estimates that each broker-dealer that routes institutional orders that
uses a third-party service provider to prepare the report will incur an average burden of 2
hours 269 and $500 270 to prepare and make publicly available a quarterly report in the format
required by proposed Rule 606(c), or a burden of 8 hours 271 and $2,000 per year. 272 Once a
report is posted on an internet website, the Commission does not estimate that there would be an
additional burden to allow the report to remain posted for the period of time specified in the rule.
With an estimated 65 broker-dealers that route institutional orders that will use a third-party
service provider to prepare their reports, the total burden per year to comply with the quarterly
reporting requirement in proposed Rule 606(c) is estimated to be 520 hours 273 and $130,000. 274

monetized burden for this requirement to be $864,000 ($6,400 annually per broker-dealer
that routes institutional orders x 135 such broker-dealers = $864,000). See id.
269

The Commission estimates the monetized burden for this requirement to be $443. The
monetized cost for this burden requirement was derived as follows: (Jr. Business Analyst
at $160 per hour for 1 hour + Compliance Manager at $283 per hour for 1 hour = $443).
The Commission derived this estimate based on per hour figures from SIFMA’s
Management & Professional Earnings in the Securities Industry 2013.

270

The Commission estimates a third-party service provider would charge on average $500
to prepare a report required by the rule.

271

2 hours per broker-dealer that routes institutional orders per quarter who uses a thirdparty servicer provider x 4 quarters = 8 hours per such broker-dealer. The Commission
estimates the total monetized burden for this requirement to be $1,772 ($443 per brokerdealer that routes institutional orders who uses a third-party servicer provider per quarter
x 4 quarters = $1,772). See supra note 269.

272

$500 per report x 4 reports per year = $2,000. See supra note 270.

273

8 hours annually per broker-dealer that routes institutional orders who will use a thirdparty servicer provider to prepare its reports x 65 such broker-dealers = 520 hours. The
Commission estimates the total monetized burden for this requirement to be $115,180
($1,772 annually per broker-dealer that routes institutional orders x 65 such brokerdealers = $115,180).

274

$2000 per broker-dealer who will use a third-party service provider to prepare its reports
x 65 such broker-dealers = $130,000.

160

Therefore, the total annual burden for all 200 broker-dealers who route institutional
orders to comply with the quarterly reporting requirement in proposed Rule 606(c) is estimated
to be 5,920 hours 275 and $130,000. 276
3.

Requirement to Document Methodologies for Categorizing

Institutional Order Routing Strategies
a. Initial Reporting and Recordkeeping Burden
The Commission estimates that broker-dealers that route institutional orders already have
descriptions for their order routing strategies (or employ third-party vendors who have
descriptions for such strategies) and will need to assign each order routing strategy for
institutional orders to comply with the passive, neutral, and aggressive categories. Thus, the
Commission estimates that the one-time, initial burden for a broker-dealer that routes
institutional orders to assign its own current strategies and establish and document its specific
methodologies for assigning order routing strategies as required by Rule 606(b)(3)(v) to be 40
hours. 277 The Commission estimates that, consistent with its estimates above, 135 broker-dealers
that route institutional orders would do this in-house. With an estimated 135 broker-dealers who
275

40 hours per broker-dealer that routes institutional orders who will create the required
reports x 135 such broker-dealers + 8 hours per broker-dealer that routes institutional
orders who will use a third-party service provider to create the required reports itself x 65
such broker-dealers = 5,920 hours. The Commission estimates the total monetized
burden for this requirement to be $979,180 ($6,400 per broker-dealer that will create the
reports itself x 135 such broker-dealers + $1,772 per broker-dealer who uses a third-party
service provider to create the required reports x 65 such broker-dealers = $979,180). See
supra notes 267 and 271.

276

See supra notes 274.

277

The Commission estimates the monetized burden for this requirement to be $12,620. The
Commission derived this estimate based on per hour figures from SIFMA’s Management
& Professional Earnings in the Securities Industry 2013: Sr. Business Analyst at $251
per hour for 20 hours + Attorney at $380 per hour for 20 hours = 40 hours and $12,620.
This burden hour estimate was based on discussions with various industry participants.

161

will assign their strategies and establish and document its specific methodologies for assigning
institutional order routing strategies as passive, neutral, and aggressive in-house, the total initial
burden for such broker-dealers is estimated to be 5,400 hours. 278
The Commission estimates that the one-time, initial burden for the 65 broker-dealers that
route institutional orders who will work with a third-party service provider to assign each order
routing strategy for institutional orders into passive, neutral, and aggressive categories and
establish and document its specific methodologies for assigning order routing strategies as
required by Rule 606(b)(3)(v) to be 10 hours 279 and $5,000. 280 With an estimated 65 brokerdealers that route institutional orders who will work with a third-party service provider, the total
initial burden for such broker-dealers to assign their current routing strategies for institutional
orders into passive, neutral, and aggressive strategies is estimated to be 650 hours 281 and
$325,000. 282

278

40 hours per broker-dealer that routes institutional orders x 135 such broker-dealers =
5,400 hours. The Commission estimates the total monetized burden for this requirement
to be $1,703,700 ($12,620 per broker-dealer that routes institutional orders x 135 such
broker-dealers = $1,703,700). See id.

279

The Commission estimates the monetized burden for this requirement to be $2,896. The
Commission derived this estimate based on per hour figures from SIFMA’s Management
& Professional Earnings in the Securities Industry 2013: Compliance Manager at $283
per hour for 4 hours + Sr. Business Analyst at $251 per hour for 4 hours + Attorney at
$380 per hour for 2 hours = 10 hours and $2,896. This burden hour estimate was based
on discussions with various industry participants.

280

The Commission estimates a third-party service provider would charge on average
$5,000 to assign into one of the three categories the current strategies a broker-dealer
uses and establish and document the specific methodologies for assigning order routing
strategies as required by Rule 606(b)(3)(v).

281

10 hours per broker-dealer that routes institutional orders who will engage a third-party
service provider to assign into one of the three categories its routing strategies and
document such categorizations x 65 such broker-dealers = 650 hours. The Commission
estimates the total monetized burden for this requirement to be $188,2400 ($2,896 per
162

Therefore, the total initial burden for all 200 broker-dealers who route institutional orders
to comply with the requirement to document the methodologies for categorizing order routing
strategies in proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(v) is estimated to be 6,050 hours 283 and $325,000. 284
b. Annual Reporting and Recordkeeping Burden
Once established, broker-dealers that route institutional orders would be required to
maintain the documentation of their order routing strategies. After a broker-dealer’s strategies
are initially assigned to one of the three categories in a consistent manner, the broker-dealer
would be required to promptly update such assignments any time an existing strategy is amended
or a new strategy is created that would change such assignment. The Commission estimates that
the annual burden for a broker-dealer who will perform the work in-house to assign the

broker-dealer that routes institutional orders x 65 such broker-dealers = $188,240). See
supra note 279.
282

$5,000 per broker-dealer who will use a third-party service provider to assign into one of
the three categories its routing strategies and document the methodologies for making
such assignments x 65 such broker-dealers = $325,000. See supra note 280.

283

5,400 hours for broker-dealers who will assign each order routing strategy into one of the
three categories and document methodologies for assigning such order routing strategies
in-house plus 650 hours for broker-dealers who will use a third-party service provider to
assign into one of the three categories its routing strategies, document the methodologies
for making such assignments, and promptly update the assignments any time an existing
strategy is amended or a new strategy is created that would change such assignments =
6,050 hours. The Commission estimates the monetized burden for this requirement to be
$1,891,940 ($1,703,700 for broker-dealers who will assign into one of the three
categories its routing strategies, document the methodologies for making such
assignments, and promptly update the assignments any time an existing strategy is
amended or a new strategy is created that would change such assignments in-house plus
$188,240 for broker-dealers who will use a third-party service provider to assign into one
of the three categories its routing strategies, document the methodologies for making
such assignments, and promptly update the assignments any time an existing strategy is
amended or a new strategy is created that would change such assignments = $1,891,940).
See supra notes 278 and 281.

284

See supra note 282.

163

descriptions of order routing strategies and promptly update the assignments any time an existing
strategy is amended or a new strategy is created that would change such assignments to comply
with Rule 606(b)(3)(v) will be 15 hours. 285 With an estimated 135 broker-dealers who route
institutional orders who will maintain and assign their own descriptions, the total annual burden
for such broker-dealers to assign the routing strategies for their institutional orders into passive,
neutral, and aggressive strategies is estimated to be 2,025 hours. 286
The Commission estimates that the annual burden for a broker-dealer who routes
institutional orders who engages a third-party service provider to comply with Rule 606(b)(3)(v)
will be 5 hours 287 and $1,000. 288 With an estimated 65 broker-dealers who route institutional
orders who will engage a third-party to assign each order routing strategy for institutional orders
into one of these three categories, document the methodologies for making such assignments,
and promptly update the assignments any time an existing strategy is amended or a new strategy
is created that would change such assignments, the total annual burden for such broker-dealers to
285

The Commission estimates the monetized burden for this requirement to be $3,500. The
Commission derived this estimate based on per hour figures from SIFMA’s Management
& Professional Earnings in the Securities Industry 2013: Jr. Business Analyst at $160 per
hour for 10 hours + Attorney at $380 per hour for 5 hours = 15 hours and $3,500. This
burden hour estimate was based on discussions with various industry participants.

286

15 hours per broker-dealer that routes institutional orders who will assign and maintain
their own descriptions x 135 such broker-dealers = 2,025 hours. The Commission
estimates the total monetized burden for this requirement to be $472,500 ($3,500 per
broker-dealer that routes institutional orders x 135 such broker-dealers = $472,500). See
id.

287

The Commission estimates the monetized burden for this requirement to be $1,609. The
Commission derived this estimate based on per hour figures from SIFMA’s Management
& Professional Earnings in the Securities Industry 2013: Compliance Manager at $283
per hour for 3 hours + Attorney at $380 per hour for 2 hours = 5 hours and $1,609. This
burden hour estimate was based on discussions with various industry participants.

288

The Commission estimates a third-party service provider would charge $1,000 annually
to maintain and keep current strategy categorizations strategies documentation of specific
methodologies for assigning order routing strategies as required by Rule 606(b)(3)(v).

164

work with a third-party service provider to assign the routing strategies for their institutional
orders into passive, neutral, and aggressive strategies is estimated to be 325 hours 289 and
$65,000. 290
Therefore, the total annual burden for all 200 broker-dealers who route institutional
orders to comply with the requirement to document the methodologies for categorizing order
routing strategies and maintain the documentation of such methodologies in proposed Rule
606(b)(3)(v) is estimated to be 2,350 hours 291 and $65,000. 292
289

5 hours per broker-dealer that routes institutional orders who will engage a third-party to
assign into one of the three categories its routing strategies, document the methodologies
for making such assignments, and promptly update the assignments any time an existing
strategy is amended or a new strategy is created that would change such assignments x 65
such broker-dealers = 325 hours. The Commission estimates the total monetized burden
for this requirement to be $104,585 ($1,609 per broker-dealer that routes institutional
orders who will engage a third-party to assign into one of the three categories its routing
strategies, document the methodologies for making such assignments, and promptly
update the assignments any time an existing strategy is amended or a new strategy is
created that would change such assignments x 65 such broker-dealers = $104,585). See
supra note 287.

290

$1,000 per broker-dealer who will use a third-party service provider to assign into one of
the three categories its routing strategies, document the methodologies for making such
assignments, and promptly update the assignments any time an existing strategy is
amended or a new strategy is created that would change such assignments x 65 such
broker-dealers = $65,000.

291

2,025 hours for broker-dealers who will assign into one of the three categories its routing
strategies, document the methodologies for making such assignments, and promptly
update the assignments any time an existing strategy is amended or a new strategy is
created that would change such assignments in-house plus 325 hours for broker-dealers
who will use a third-party service provider to assign into one of the three categories its
routing strategies, document the methodologies for making such assignments, and
promptly update the assignments any time an existing strategy is amended or a new
strategy is created that would change such assignments = 2,350 hours. The Commission
estimates the monetized burden for this requirement to be $577,085 ($472,500 for brokerdealers who will assign into one of the three categories its routing strategies, document
the methodologies for making such assignments, and promptly update the assignments
any time an existing strategy is amended or a new strategy is created that would change
such assignments in-house plus $104,585 for broker-dealers who will use a third-party
service provider to assign into one of the three categories its routing strategies, document
165

4.

Amendment to Current Disclosures With Respect to Retail Orders
a. Initial Reporting and Recordkeeping Burden

Any broker-dealer that routes retail orders is subject to the collection of information in
Rule 606(a) and the proposed amendments thereto. The Commission notes that there are
differences among the estimated 266 broker-dealers that are subject to retail order routing
disclosure requirements. 293 Introducing firms typically rely primarily on clearing brokers to
handle their customer accounts, and the collection of information burden would not apply to
introducing brokers unless they are directly involved in determining where their customer orders
are routed. 294 The Commission estimates that there are currently 185 clearing brokers that route
retail orders. In addition to the 185 clearing brokers, there are approximately 81 introducing
brokers that receive (but do not hold) funds or securities from their customers. 295 Generally,
introducing brokers rely on clearing brokers to clear and execute trades and handle customer
funds and securities. 296 However, the Commission preliminarily believes that some introducing
brokers which receive funds or securities for customers may be involved in initiating orders or
initially routing orders on behalf of their customers and may therefore have involvement in

the methodologies for making such assignments, and promptly update the assignments
any time an existing strategy is amended or a new strategy is created that would change
such assignments = $577,085). See supra notes 286 and 291.
292

See supra note 290.

293

The Commission has previously noted the differences between these types of brokerdealers. See, e.g., Rule 606 Predecessor Proposing Release supra note 15, at 48427.

294

See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 40122 (June 24, 1998), 63 FR 35508 (June 30,
1998).

295

This estimate is based on December 2015 Form Custody data received by the
Commission.

296

See Rule 606 Predecessor Proposing Release, supra note 15 at 48427.

166

determining where retail orders are routed for execution. Because such introducing brokers may
have involvement in determining where orders are routed, they have been included, along with
clearing brokers, in estimating the total burden of the proposed amendments for institutional
routing disclosure. The Commission preliminarily believes that the estimates should be the same
for a clearing broker or an introducing broker that routes retail orders. Therefore, the
Commission estimates that there are 266 broker-dealers to which the proposed requirements
would apply. 297
Rule 606(a)(1) currently requires that broker-dealers make publicly available quarterly
reports on retail order routing. While the proposed rule does not alter this requirement; it does
modify the content of the report. As noted above, broker-dealers will be required to account for
the proportion of non-directed marketable limit and non-marketable limit orders as a percentage
of total retail orders as well as the percentage of such orders broken down by Specified Venue.
In addition, for each Specified Venue, broker-dealers would be required to provide information
about net payment for order flow received per share, payment from any profit-sharing
relationship received, transaction fees paid, and transaction rebates received per share and in the
aggregate broken down by order type. The proposed rule would require that such reports be
broken down by calendar month. The proposed rule also eliminates a requirement that the order
routing information contained in the customer reports be broken down by listing market, which
simplifies presentation of information required under the rule.
To comply with the proposed requirements, broker-dealers who do not have systems that
currently obtain information required by the rule will have to alter their current systems to

297

185 clearing brokers + 81 introducing brokers that receive funds or securities from
customers = 266 broker-dealers that route retail orders.

167

obtain, record, and retain the information required by the proposed changes. The Commission
preliminarily believes that broker-dealers would not encounter capital expenditures to comply
with this requirement. The Commission estimates that most broker-dealers that route retail
orders already obtain the information required by the proposed rule and that 50 broker-dealers do
not currently obtain such information. 298 The Commission estimates that 25 of these 50 brokerdealers would update their systems in-house, while 25 would use third-party service providers.
The Commission estimates that the initial burden for a broker-dealer that routes retail
orders whose systems do not currently capture all of the information required by the rule to
update its systems to capture the information required by proposed Rule 606(a) and format that
information into a report to comply with the rule will be 80 hours. 299 Therefore, the Commission
estimates the total initial burden for the 25 broker-dealers who the Commission estimates do not
currently capture information required by the proposed rule that perform the necessary system
updates in-house will be 2,000 hours. 300

298

The Commission estimates that most broker-dealers currently obtain such information.
At the time of routing, for instance, a broker-dealer should know what type an order is,
(i.e., market or limit), whether the order is directed or not, and, if the order is a limit
order, whether the limit order is marketable or not. Additionally, a broker-dealer should
know after execution what types of fees or rebates were received, both on a per share
basis and in the aggregate.

299

The Commission estimates the monetized burden for this requirement to be $22,648. The
Commission derived this cost estimate based on per hour figures from SIFMA’s
Management & Professional Earnings in the Securities Industry 2013: Sr. Programmer at
$303 per hour for 40 hours) + (Sr. Database Administrator at $312 per hour for 16 hours)
+ (Sr. Business Analyst at $251 per hour for 16 hours) + (Attorney at $380 per hour for 4
hours) = 80 hours and $22,648.

300

80 hours per broker-dealer that routes retail orders who will perform necessary system
updates in-house x 25 such-broker-dealers = 2,000 hours. The Commission estimates the
total monetized burden for this requirement to be $566,200 ($22,648 per broker-dealer
that routes institutional orders x 25 such broker-dealers = $566,200). See id.

168

The Commission estimates that the initial burden for a broker-dealer that routes retail
orders to engage a third-party to program the necessary system updates to comply with proposed
Rule 606(a) will be 20 hours 301 and $10,000. 302 Therefore, the Commission estimates the total
initial burden for the 25 broker-dealers who the Commission estimates do not currently capture
information required by the proposed rule who will engage a third-party service provider to
perform the necessary system updates will be 500 hours 303 and $250,000. The Commission notes
that this estimate contemplates the impact of making the reports available using the most recent
versions of the XML schema and the associated PDF renderer, as published on the
Commission’s Web site, as required by both proposed Rule 606(a) and 606(b)(1). Therefore, the
total initial burden estimate for all 50 broker-dealers who the Commission estimates will need to
update their systems and create a new report is 2,500 hours 304 and $250,000. 305

301

The Commission estimates the monetized burden for this requirement to be $5,985. The
Commission derived this cost estimate based on per hour figures from SIFMA’s
Management & Professional Earnings in the Securities Industry 2013: Compliance
Manager at $283 per hour for 10 hours + Sr. Business Analyst at $251 per hour for 5
hours + Attorney at $380 per hour for 5 hours = 20 hours and $5,985.

302

The Commission estimates that a third-party service provider would charge an average of
$10,000 to upgrade a broker-dealer’s systems to comply with proposed Rule 606(a).

303

20 hours per broker-dealer that routes retail orders who will engage a third-party service
provider to perform necessary system updates x 25 such-broker-dealers = 500 hours. The
Commission estimates the total monetized burden for this requirement to be $149,625
($5,985 per broker-dealer that routes institutional orders x 25 such broker-dealers =
$149,625). See supra note 301.

304

2,000 hours for a broker-dealer that routes retail orders whose systems do not currently
capture the required information who will perform upgrades + 500 hours for a brokerdealer who routes retail orders whose systems do not currently capture the required
information who will engage a third-party to perform the necessary upgrades = 2,500
hours. The Commission estimates the total monetized burden for this requirement to be
$715,825 ($566,200 for broker-dealers that route retail orders whose systems do not
currently capture the required information who will perform necessary upgrades in-house
+ $149,625 for broker-dealers that route retail orders whose systems do not currently
capture the required information who will engage a third-party service provider to
169

For the remaining 216 broker-dealers whom the Commission estimates currently capture
the data required by the proposed modifications to Rule 606(a), such broker-dealers would need
to only format their reports to incorporate such data. The Commission estimates that 108 of such
broker-dealers currently engage a third-party service provider to provide reports pursuant to
existing Rule 606(a) and such broker-dealers would continue to use third-party service providers
to format reports to comply with proposed Rule 606(a), as described further below. The
Commission estimates that the remaining 108 broker-dealers who already capture information
required by the proposed rule would prepare and format a report to comply with the proposed
rule in-house. The Commission estimates for a broker-dealer who already captures such data,
the burden to format that data into its existing reports on its own would be 20 hours. 306
Therefore, the total initial burden for broker-dealers to format already captured data into a report
in-house to comply with proposed Rule 606(a) is estimated to be 2,160 hours. 307
The Commission estimates the initial burden for the 108 broker-dealers who engage a
third-party service provider to format reports to comply with proposed Rule 606(a) would be 8

perform the system updates x 25 such broker-dealers) = $715,825. See supra notes 300
and 303.
305

$10,000 per broker-dealer who will engage a third-party to perform necessary updates x
25 such broker-dealers = $250,000.

306

The Commission estimates the monetized burden for this requirement to be $4,975. The
Commission derived this estimate based on per hour figures from SIFMA’s Management
& Professional Earnings in the Securities Industry 2013: Programmer at $248 per hour
for 15 hours + Sr. Business Analyst at $251 per hour for 5 hours = 20 hours and $4,975.

307

20 hours per broker-dealer who will format reports in-house x 108 such broker-dealers =
2,160 hours. The Commission estimates the monetized burden for this requirement to be
$537,300 ($4,975 per broker-dealer who will format reports in-house x 108 such brokerdealers). See id.

170

hours 308 and $2,000. 309 Therefore, for the 108 broker-dealers the Commission estimates route
retail orders who will engage a third-party to format and prepare a report that would comply with
the proposed rule, the estimated total initial burden to comply with proposed Rule 606(a) is 864
hours 310 and $216,000. 311 Thus, the total estimate for the 216 broker-dealers for whom the
Commission estimates currently capture the data required by proposed Rule 606(a) to format
their reports to incorporate such data is 3,024 hours 312 and $216,000. 313 The Commission notes
that these estimate include the impact of making the reports available using the most recent

308

The Commission estimates the monetized burden for this requirement to be $2,555. The
Commission derived this estimate based on per hour figures from SIFMA’s Management
& Professional Earnings in the Securities Industry 2013: Compliance Manager at $283
per hour for 5 hours + Attorney at $380 per hour for 3 hours = 8 hours and $2,555. This
burden hour estimate was based on discussions with various industry participants.

309

The Commission estimates a third-party service provider would charge on average
$2,000 to format already captured data into a report that would comply with proposed
Rule 606(a).

310

8 hours per broker-dealer who will perform the necessary system updates in-house x 108
such broker-dealers = 864 hours. The Commission estimates the monetized burden for
this requirement to be $275,940 ($2,555 per broker-dealer who will perform the system
updates in-house x 108 such broker-dealers). See supra note 308.

311

$2,000 per broker-dealer who will use a third-party service provider to format data and
prepare a report x 108 such broker-dealers = $216,000. See supra note 309.

312

2,160 hours for broker-dealers who currently capture the information required by
proposed Rule 606(a) and will format their systems to create reports to comply with the
proposed rule in-house + 864 hours for broker-dealers who currently capture such
information who will hire a third-party service provider to format their systems to
comply with the proposed rule = 3,024 hours. The Commission estimates the total
monetized burden for this requirement to be $813,240 ($537,500 for broker-dealers who
currently capture the information required by proposed Rule 606(a) and will format their
systems to create reports to comply with the proposed rule in-house + $275,940 for
broker-dealers who currently capture such information who will hire a third-party service
provider to format their systems to comply with the proposed rule = $813,240). See
supra notes 307 and 310.

313

See supra note 311.
171

versions of the XML schema and the associated PDF renderer as published on the Commission’s
Web site, as required by both proposed Rule 606(a) and 606(b)(1).
Therefore, the Commission estimates that the total initial burden to comply with the
proposed modifications to Rule 606(a) for all 266 broker-dealers which the Commission
estimates route retail orders is 5,524 hours 314 and $466,000. 315
Finally, the Commission proposes to amend Rule 606(a)(1)(iv) 316 to require brokerdealers to describe specific aspects of any terms of payment for order flow arrangements and
profit-sharing relationships, whether written or oral, with a Specified Venue that may influence
their order routing decisions, including information relating to specific incentives or volume
minimums.317 The Commission estimates that the initial burden for a broker-dealer that routes
retail orders to review, assess, and disclose its payment for order flow arrangements and profitsharing relationships would be 10 hours 318 and that all 266 broker-dealers who route retail orders

314

2,500 hours for broker-dealers who need to update their systems and prepare a report +
3,124 hours for broker-dealers who currently capture the information required by
proposed Rule 606(a) and need to format their systems to create reports to comply with
the proposed rule = 5,524 hours. The Commission estimates the total monetized burden
for this requirement to be $1,529,065 ($715,850 for broker-dealers who need to update
their systems and prepare a report + $813,240 for broker-dealers who currently capture
the information required by proposed Rule 606(a) and need to format their systems to
create reports to comply with the proposed rule = $1,529,065). See supra notes 304 and
312.

315

$250,000 for broker-dealers who will engage a third-party to perform necessary upgrades
+ $216,000 for broker-dealers who will engage a third-party to format reports to comply
with the proposed rule = $466,000. See supra notes 305 and 311.

316

Renumbered from Rule 606(a)(1)(iii).

317

See proposed Rule 606(a)(1)(iv).

318

The Commission estimates the monetized burden for this requirement to be $3,155. The
Commission derived this estimate based on per hour figures from SIFMA’s Management
& Professional Earnings in the Securities Industry 2013: (Sr. Business Analyst at $251
per hour for 5 hours) + (Attorney at $380 per hour for 5 hours) = 10 hours and $3,155.

172

would describe such agreements and arrangements themselves. Therefore, the total initial
burden for all broker-dealers who route retail orders to review, assess, and disclose its payment
for order flow arrangements and profit-sharing relationships is estimated to be 2,660 hours. 319
b. Annual Reporting and Recordkeeping Burden
Rule 606(a) currently requires brokers-dealers that route retail orders to make available
reports on the routing of all non-directed orders. The proposed changes to Rule 606(a)(1) will:
(1) eliminate the requirement that such reports be divided based on primary listing market and
instead aggregate all NMS stocks into a single section; (2) add requirements that the reports
contain information relating to the routing of marketable and non-marketable orders, as well as
average payment for order flow for different types of orders; (3) require broker-dealers to
describe any terms of payment for order flow arrangements and profit-sharing relationships with
a Specified Venue that may influence their order routing decisions; and (4) require that such
reports be made available using the most recent versions of the XML schema and the associated
PDF renderer as published on the Commission’s Web site. 320 The proposed amendments do
alter the information currently collected under an existing collection of information requirement.
The Commission preliminarily believes that once the initial burdens, described above, have been
incurred to allow the broker-dealer to obtain the required information, the ongoing burden to
produce a quarterly report would remain the same. However, broker-dealers would need to
monitor payment for order flow and profit-sharing relationships and potential SRO rule changes
that could impact their order routing decisions and incorporate any new information into their
319

10 hours per broker-dealer that routes retail orders x 266 such broker-dealers = 2,660
hours. The Commission estimates the total monetized burden for this requirement to be
$839,230 ($3,155 per broker-dealer that routes retail orders x 266 such broker-dealers =
$839,230). See id.

320

See supra Section III.B.

173

reports. Thus, the Commission estimates the average annual burden for a broker-dealer to
comply with the proposed amendments to Rule 606(a)(1)(i)-(iii) would be 10 hours. 321 Thus, the
total annual burden for all broker-dealers to comply with the proposed amendments is estimated
to be 2,660 hours. 322
Proposed Rule 606(a)(1)(iv) would require broker-dealers to describe any terms of
payment for order flow arrangements and profit-sharing relationships with a Specified Venue
that may influence their order routing decisions. Current Rule 606(a)(1)(iii), being renumbered
as proposed Rule 606(a)(iv), requires broker-dealers to provide a discussion of the material
aspects of the broker-dealer’s relationship with each Specified Venue, including a description of
any arrangement for payment for order flow and any profit-sharing relationship. Therefore, the
proposed changes would require broker-dealers to describe any terms of payment for order flow
arrangements and profit-sharing relationships with a Specified Venue that may influence their
order routing decisions, in addition to the material aspects of the broker-dealer’s relationship
with each Specified Venue. Additionally, the costs noted in this section include the impact of
posting the required reports in the specified format to an internet website. Once a report is
posted on an internet website, the Commission estimates that there would not be an additional
burden to allow the report to remain posted for the period of time specified in the rule. The
Commission estimates that the average annual burden for a broker-dealer that handles retail
321

The Commission estimates the monetized burden for this requirement to be $3,155. The
Commission derived this estimate based on per hour figures from SIFMA’s Management
& Professional Earnings in the Securities Industry 2013: (Sr. Business Analyst at $251
per hour for 5 hours) + (Attorney at $380 per hour for 5 hours) = 10 hours and $3,155.

322

10 hours per broker-dealer that routes retail orders x 266 such broker-dealers = 2,660
hours. The Commission estimates the total monetized burden for this requirement to be
$839,230 ($3,155 per broker-dealer that routes retail orders x 266 such broker-dealers =
$839,230). See id.

174

orders to describe and update any terms of payment for order flow arrangements and profitsharing relationships with a Specified Venue that may influence their order routing decisions to
be 15 hours. 323 With 266 broker-dealers involved in retail order routing practices that would be
required to comply with the rule, the Commission estimates the total annual burden for
complying with proposed Rule 606(a)(1)(iv) to be 3,990 hours. 324
5.

Amendment to Current Disclosures under Rule 605

Currently, Rule 605 requires market centers make available standardized, monthly reports
of statistical information concerning their order executions. Further, the Rule requires that such
reports be in electronic form and be made available for downloading from an Internet Web site
that is free and readily accessible to the public. The proposed amendment to Rule 605 would
require that such reports be kept posted on an Internet Web site that is free of charge and readily
accessible to the public for a period of three years from the initial date of posting on the Internet
Web site. Because reports are already posted to an internet Web site pursuant to current Rule
605, the Commission estimates the proposed amendment to Rule 605 would not impose an
additional burden. The proposed amendment prescribes a minimum period of time for which
such reports that are already required to be posted on an Internet Web site shall remain posted.
E.

Collection of Information is Mandatory

All of the collection of information would be mandatory.
323

The Commission estimates the monetized burden for this requirement to be $3,500. The
Commission derived this estimate based on per hour figures from SIFMA’s Management
& Professional Earnings in the Securities Industry 2013: (Jr. Business Analyst at $160
per hour for 10 hours) + (Attorney at $380 per hour for 5 hours) = 15 hours and $3,500.

324

15 hours annually per broker-dealer that routes retail orders x 266 such broker-dealers =
3,990 hours. The Commission estimates the total monetized burden for this requirement
to be $931,000 ($3,500 annually per broker-dealer that routes retail orders x 266 such
broker-dealers = $931,000). See id.

175

F.

Confidentiality of Responses to Collection of Information

To the extent that the Commission receives confidential information pursuant to the
collection of information, such information will be kept confidential, subject to the provisions of
applicable law. 325 Any information required to be disclosed publicly by the proposed Rules
would not be confidential.
The quarterly order routing reports prepared and disseminated by broker-dealers pursuant
to Rules 606(a) and 606(c), as proposed, would be available to the public. The individual
responses by broker-dealers to customer requests for order routing information required by Rules
606(b)(1) and (b)(3), as proposed, would be made available the customer. The Commission,
SROs, and other regulatory authorities could obtain copies of these reports as appropriate.
G.

Retention Period for Recordkeeping Requirements

Pursuant to proposed Rule 606(a), broker-dealers shall be required to keep quarterly retail
order routing reports posted on an Internet Web site that is free and readily accessible to the
public for a period of three years from the initial date of posting on the Internet Web site.
For Rule 606(b), broker-dealers shall be required to preserve all communications required
under these proposed amendments pursuant to Rule 17a-4, as applicable. 326 For the
categorization of order routing strategies pursuant to proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(v), broker-dealers
shall be required to preserve such records in a manner consistent with Rule 17a-4(b), specifically
for a period of not less than three years, the first two years in an easily accessible place.

325

See, e.g., 5 U.S.C. 552 et seq.; 15 U.S.C. 78x (governing the public availability of
information obtained by the Commission).

326

17 CFR 240.17a-4. Registered brokers and dealers are already subject to existing
recordkeeping and retention requirements under Rule 17a-4.

176

Pursuant to proposed Rule 606(c), broker-dealers shall be required to keep public
aggregated institutional order handling reports posted on an Internet Web site that is free and
readily accessible to the public for a period of three years from the initial date of posting on the
Internet Web site.
Pursuant to the proposed amendments to Rule 605, market centers shall be required to
keep order execution reports posted on an Internet Web site that is free and readily accessible to
the public for a period of three years from the initial date of posting on the Internet Web site.
H.

Request for Comments

Pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 3506(c)(2)(B), the Commission solicits comments to:
120.

Evaluate whether the proposed collections of information are necessary for the
proper performance of the functions of the agency, including whether the
information shall have practical utility;

121.

Evaluate the accuracy of our estimates of the burden of the proposed collection of
information;

122.

Determine whether there are ways to enhance the quality, utility, and clarity of the
information to be collected; and

123.

Evaluate whether there are ways to minimize the burden of collection of
information on those who are to respond, including through the use of automated
collection techniques or other forms of information technology.

Persons submitting comments on the collection of information requirements should direct
them to the Office of Management and Budget, Attention: Desk Officer for the Securities and
Exchange Commission, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Washington, DC 20503,
and should also send a copy of their comments to Brent J. Fields, Secretary, Securities and

177

Exchange Commission, 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549-1090, with reference to File
Number S7-14-16. Requests for materials submitted to OMB by the Commission with regard to
this collection of information should be in writing, with reference to File Number S7-14-16 and
be submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission, Office of FOIA/PA Services, 100 F
Street NE, Washington, DC 20549-2736. As OMB is required to make a decision concerning the
collection of information between 30 and 60 days after publication, a comment to OMB is best
assured of having its full effect if OMB receives it within 30 days of publication.
V.

Economic Analysis
The Commission is sensitive to the economic consequences and effects, including costs
and benefits, of its rules. The following economic analysis identifies and considers the costs and

benefits—including the effects on efficiency, competition, and capital formation—that may
result from the proposed amendments to Rules 600, 605, and 606. 327 These costs and benefits
are discussed below and have informed the policy choices described throughout this release.
A.

Introduction

Among the primary economic considerations for the proposed amendments to Rule 600,
Rule 605, and Rule 606 are transparency for customers placing institutional orders, enhanced
transparency for customers placing retail orders, and enhanced access to order handling reports.
327

The Commission also considered the proposed amendments to Rule 607 and
preliminarily believes that there are no costs and benefits associated with those proposed
amendments. The proposed amendments to Rule 607 replace “customer order” with
“retail order” to be consistent with the proposed amendments to Rule 600(b)(19).
However, since the definition in proposed Rule 600(b)(19) remains unchanged, there are
no cost and benefits to the proposed amendments to Rule 607. The Commission is also
proposing to amend Rule 3a51-1(a) under the Exchange Act; Rule 13h-1(a)(5) of
Regulation 13D-G; Rule 105(b)(1) of Regulation M; Rules 201(a) and 204(g) of
Regulation SHO; Rules 600(b), 602(a)(5), 607(a)(1), and 611(c) of Regulation NMS; and
Rule 1000 of Regulation SCI, to update cross-references as a result of today’s proposal,
which would not result in costs or benefits.

178

The Commission proposes to amend Rule 600 to include a definition of “institutional
order” and to amend Rule 606 to require broker-dealers to (1) disclose standardized customerspecific institutional order handling information to their customers, including the use of
actionable IOIs in executing institutional orders and (2) make publicly available for each
calendar quarter a report that aggregates the information required for customer-specific
institutional order handling reports for all institutional orders they receive.
In short, and as discussed earlier, the Commission preliminarily believes that
standardizing customer-specific institutional order handling disclosures, as would be required by
proposed Rule 606(b)(3), would provide information to customers to enable them to: (1) assess
the potential for information leakage with the routing of their orders; (2) assess the conflicts of
interest that may influence the broker-dealer’s order handling practices; and (3) compare
institutional order handling practices across multiple broker-dealers. The Commission also
preliminarily believes that requiring broker-dealers to disclose their use of actionable IOIs in
executing institutional orders will be useful to customers assessing broker-dealers’ order
handling decisions, particularly in regards to analyzing information leakage.
In addition, the Commission preliminarily believes that public disclosure by each brokerdealer of aggregated information about its institutional order handling, as would be required by
proposed Rule 606(c), would, among other things, (1) assist market participants, including
customers, in comparing the order handling services of all broker-dealers; (2) facilitate
customers’ ability to make informed decisions when engaging a broker-dealer’s services; (3)
provide academics and other members of the public with access to additional data for conducting
research on institutional order routing and market execution quality; (4) allow broker-dealers to

179

better compare their own services against other broker-dealers; and (5) permit trading centers to
better compare their execution statistics against other trading centers.
The Commission preliminarily believes that the customer-specific as well as the public
aggregated institutional order handling reports may further incentivize broker-dealers to provide
customers with higher-quality routing services when executing their institutional orders, thereby
mitigating the potential for information leakage, and better manage any potential conflicts of
interest the broker-dealers may face. The Commission also preliminarily believes that the
reports will promote competition among broker-dealers to capture customers’ order flow, and
among trading centers for order execution.
With respect to retail orders, the Commission proposes to amend Rule 606(a)(1) to
include new subparagraph (iii) to require that, for each Specified Venue, the broker-dealer must
report the net aggregate amount of any payment for order flow received, payment from any
profit-sharing relationship received, transaction fees paid, and transaction rebates received, both
as a total dollar amount and on a per share basis, for each of the following non-directed order
types: (1) market orders; (2) marketable limit orders; (3) non-marketable limit orders; and (4)
other orders. 328 In addition, proposed amendments to Rule 606(a)(1)(iv) would require
disclosure of a description of any terms of payment for order flow arrangements and profitsharing relationships, whether written or oral, with a Specified Venue that may influence a
broker-dealer’s order routing decisions, including, but not limited to: (1) incentives for equaling
or exceeding an agreed upon order flow volume threshold, such as additional payments or a
higher rate of payment; (2) disincentives for failing to meet an agreed upon minimum order flow
threshold, such as lower payments or the requirement to pay a fee; (3) volume-based tiered
328

See proposed Rule 606(a)(1)(iii).

180

payment schedules; and (4) agreements regarding the minimum amount of order flow that the
broker-dealer would send to a venue. The Commission preliminarily believes that these
amendments will enhance transparency on the routing of retail orders and enhance competition
among broker-dealers that route retail orders, to the benefit of investors.
In addition, the Commission preliminarily believes that the proposed amendments would
allow customers to better assess the retail order routing and execution quality offered by their
broker-dealers. As a result, the Commission preliminarily believes that these additional
disclosures may provide broker-dealers further incentives to improve execution quality for their
customers and better manage any potential for conflicts of interest the broker-dealers may face.
In addition, the ability of customers to better assess routing and execution quality could also lead
to increased competition among broker-dealers with respect to execution quality, which could, in
turn, result in broker-dealers providing even higher-quality retail order routing and execution
services.
The Commission is further proposing to require that all reports on institutional order
handling and retail order routing be provided in a consistent, structured format. The Commission
preliminarily believes that requiring the reports be provided in this format would be useful to
customers as it would allow them to more easily analyze and compare data across broker-dealers.
Finally, the Commission is proposing to amend Rules 605 and 606 of Regulation NMS to
require that the public order execution and order routing reports be kept publicly available for a
period of three years. The Commission preliminarily believes that this would allow the public to
more efficiently evaluate the services of broker-dealers because it would be easier for the public
to access historic reports and analyze the data over an extended time period. For example, at a

181

minimum, the public would have access to three years of historic data and may choose to
download the reports periodically to analyze data over a time period of more than three years.
The discussion below presents an overview of the current practices with regards to the
reporting and disclosure of order routing and execution quality for institutional as well as retail
orders, a consideration of the costs and benefits of the proposed new reporting requirements for
institutional orders and of the proposed amendments to the reporting requirements for retail
orders, and a discussion of the potential effects of the proposed amendments to Rule 606 on
efficiency, competition, and capital formation. This discussion will also describe the
Commission’s proposal to amend Rule 605 by requiring market centers to keep public execution
reports posted on an Internet Web site that is accessible to the public for a period of three years.
B.

Baseline

The baseline for considering the economic impact of amending Rule 606 to require
reporting for institutional orders consists of: (1) information that customers currently receive
from their broker-dealers regarding how their institutional orders are handled; (2) the format in
which such information is currently provided to customers; (3) conflicts of interest brokerdealers currently face; (4) the current use of actionable IOIs; and (5) the ability to assess order
routing and execution quality currently provided by different broker-dealers and execution
quality currently provided by different trading centers.
The baseline for considering the economic impact of amending Rule 606 for retail orders
and of amending Rule 605 consists of: (1) information that customers currently receive under
current Rules 605 and 606 or information that customers currently receive from their brokerdealers that is not required by current Rules 605 and 606; (2) the format in which information
required by current Rule 606 for retail orders is provided to customers; (3) conflicts of interest

182

broker-dealers currently face; (4) how long reports required by current Rules 605 and 606 are
available to the public; and (5) the ability to assess order routing and execution quality currently
provided by different broker-dealers and execution quality currently provided by different
trading centers.
Further, the baseline for considering the economic impact of amending Rule 606 for
institutional and retail orders and Rule 605 comprises the current competitive landscape in the
markets for brokerage services and for execution services and any current limitations on
efficiency or capital formation relevant to the proposed amendments. These various baseline
factors are discussed in further detail below.
1.

Ad Hoc Reports for Institutional Orders

Currently, broker-dealers may voluntarily provide some information on routing and
execution quality of institutional orders to individual customers in response to requests by these
customers. Customers may also use third-party vendors for TCA (e.g., to analyze the execution
prices of orders compared to various benchmarks). However, the Commission understands that
TCA provided by third-party vendors generally does not encompass an analysis of routing
decisions because the third-party vendors, similar to customers, do not have access to the order
handling information necessary to do so. Therefore, the completeness of any analysis of
institutional orders, including TCA, is affected by a lack of specific order handling information
with regard to the various venues to which institutional orders are routed. In addition, while
TCA provided by third-party vendors may focus on measuring and comparing execution quality
of orders, TCA does so typically at the parent order or broker-dealer level, and generally not at
the trading center level, because the third-party vendors, again, do not have access to the
information about institutional order handling that would be necessary to do so.

183

The Commission further understands that reports that institutional customers currently
receive upon request from their broker-dealers may not provide the consistent and standardized
information needed to fully assess the performance of their broker-dealers. In particular, the
Commission understands that these reports are not prepared or presented in a uniform manner
that allows for easy comparison of institutional order handling across different broker-dealers,
and there is no uniformity in the current disclosure of execution fees charged or rebates paid by
the trading centers to the broker-dealers. The reports contain what the broker-dealers provide
upon the requests of customers or what the customers specifically request from the brokerdealers. As a result, a broker-dealer will often supply reports containing different information to
different customers, and more importantly, a customer may receive reports containing different
information from different broker-dealers. Further, even if the reports contain the same data
elements, those data elements may not be computed in the same way or use the same
terminology across different broker-dealers or over time for the same broker-dealer. These
differences make it more difficult for institutional customers to compare broker-dealers or to
examine one broker-dealer’s performance over time. In addition, as these reports are not
standardized and vary by broker-dealer or by customer, the Commission understands that some
of these reports group order routing strategies by their aggressiveness, 329 while other reports do
not.
Even if a broker-dealer voluntarily provides information about institutional orders upon
request, it may not do so with respect to all customers. Whether a given customer receives a
report and how responsive the report is to the request likely depends on the customer’s current or

329

This grouping could be similar to the grouping into aggressive, neutral, and passive as
proposed in Rule 606(b)(3).

184

potential business relationship with the broker-dealer. A broker-dealer may be more
accommodating towards customers that send, or may send in the near future, substantial order
flow. To the extent that some customers receive reports from broker-dealers while other
customers do not or that some customers receive higher-quality reports than other customers, the
playing field may not be level with respect to institutional order handling information.
Moreover, the public currently does not have access to information on the performance of
broker-dealers relating to institutional orders. Under current Rule 606, a broker-dealer is not
required to provide public reports for orders having a market value of $200,000 or more. While
an institutional customer can request ad-hoc reports from broker-dealers about the handling of its
orders, the lack of public reports relating to institutional orders makes it infeasible for an
institutional customer to compare handling of institutional orders by broker-dealers that the
customer does not have a business relationship with. For the broker-dealers that the customer
does send orders to, the customer is not able to compare these broker-dealers more generally
based on all orders those broker-dealers handle rather than only the orders the customer sends to
the broker-dealers. 330 Institutional customers and the public may use public reports for retail
orders required under current Rule 606 to evaluate broker-dealers, with the effectiveness of that
approach being dependent upon how good a proxy the order routing for retail orders is for the
order routing for institutional orders. The Commission understands that some customers use the
330

Currently, a customer placing institutional orders can only compare broker-dealers based
on the orders it had sent to the broker-dealers because only those are contained in the adhoc reports the broker-dealers provide upon request, but cannot compare how the brokerdealers handle the orders it had sent compared to all of the institutional orders the brokerdealers had received. In addition, the ad-hoc reports provided by the broker-dealers upon
request by a customer placing institutional orders may be provided in different formats
and contain different and potentially inconsistent information, which makes the
comparison of the order routing decisions and execution quality of broker-dealers more
difficult and less useful.

185

reports for retail orders required by current Rule 606 to predict, among other things, the
execution quality of institutional orders.
2.

Publication Period for Reports on Retail Orders Required by Current

Rules 605 and 606
Currently, Rule 605 does not specify the minimum length of time that market centers
need to post publicly the order execution reports and Rule 606 does not specify a minimum
length of time that broker-dealers need to post publicly the order routing reports. The
Commission understands that generally, when reports are posted, market centers and brokerdealers will remove the previous report from their Web site and replace it with their most recent
report, 331 though some may make reports available for a longer period of time that varies. 332 The
Commission understands that this may make it difficult for the public to analyze historical data.
For example, the public must download the data regularly to have access to historical data.
Alternatively, the public may rely on third-party vendors who retrieve and aggregate Rule 605
and 606 reports from market centers and broker-dealers, respectively, to get access to historical
data.

331

See, e.g., Morgan Stanley Rules 605 and 606 Disclosures, available at
http://www.morganstanley.com/institutional-sales/sec_rules_605_606; Wells Fargo Legal
Disclosures, available at https://www.wellsfargoadvisors.com/disclosures/legaldisclosures.htm; Charles Schwab Order Routing, available at
http://www.schwab.com/public/schwab/nn/legal_compliance/important_notices/order_ro
uting.html; TD Ameritrade Disclosures, available at
https://www.tdameritrade.com/disclosure.page; Fidelity Quarterly Reports, available at
https://capitalmarkets.fidelity.com/app/item/RD_13569_21696.html.

332

See, e.g., UBS Order Routing Disclosure, available at
https://www.ubs.com/us/en/wealth/misc/orderroutingdisclosure.html.

186

3.

Available Information on Conflicts of Interest

Current Rule 606 requires for retail orders, among other things, a description of any
arrangement for payment for order flow 333 and any profit-sharing relationships. The current
required disclosure is designed to set forth arrangements, including financial relationships, that
could lead to conflicts of interest for a broker-dealer when routing retail orders. 334 Brokerdealers have a variety of choices for order routing and execution, and the venue that a brokerdealer chooses may have a tangible effect on the execution quality of an order. Broker-dealers
face conflicts of interest when routing orders, such as affiliations with trading centers, receipt of
payment for order flow or receipt of payment from any profit-sharing relationship, and liquidity
rebates. For example, recent research analyzed the relation between maker-taker fee schedules
and order routing. According to this study, four out of ten national brokerage firms appear to
consistently route limit orders to the exchange(s) paying the highest rebate for those limit orders.
In this research, an analysis of proprietary limit order data and trades from NYSE’s trade and
quote (“TAQ”) data showed strong empirical evidence of a negative relation between take fees
and limit order execution quality. 335 The Commission preliminarily believes that such financial
333

In addition, Rule 10b-10 under the Exchange Act requires broker-dealers, when acting as
agent for the customer, to disclose on the confirmation of a transaction whether payment
for order flow was received and, upon written request of the customer, to furnish the
source and nature of the compensation received. See 17 CFR 240.10b-10(a)(2)(i)(C).
Accordingly, Rule 10b-10 provides disclosure to a specific customer of whether payment
for order flow was received on a particular transaction while Rule 606 provides public
disclosure of any arrangement for payment for order flow and any profit-sharing
relationship by requiring a description of such arrangements.

334

17 CFR 242.606(a)(1)(iii). See Rule 606 Predecessor Adopting Release, supra note 15,
at 48417 (stating that “[t]he purpose of requiring disclosure of any relationships between
a broker-dealer and the venues to which it routes orders is to alert customers to potential
conflicts of interest that may influence the broker-dealer’s order-routing practices.”).

335

See Battalio, Corwin, and Jennings Paper, supra note 57. The authors “document a
strong negative relation between take fees and several measures of limit order execution
187

incentives have the potential to affect how broker-dealers route retail orders; however, these
conflicts of interest might not only affect retail orders.
Under the quarterly disclosure obligations in current Rule 606(a), a broker-dealer is
required to discuss the material aspects of the broker-dealer’s relationship with each Specified
Venue (which is determined based on retail order routing), including a description of any
arrangement for payment for order flow, but broker-dealers are not required to provide
information on the net amount of payment for order flow per share or by order type nor payment
received for any profit-sharing relationship. Further, current Rule 606(a) does not require
broker-dealers to disclose rebates received and access fees paid per share or by order type nor
does it require a description of the terms of a payment for order flow arrangement or profitsharing relationship that may influence a broker-dealer’s order routing decision. The current
information required by Rule 606(a) can be used by customers to assess order routing and
execution services of broker-dealers as well as the potential conflicts of interest faced by brokerdealers in providing such services and determine whether to retain the services of broker-dealers
or to discontinue the use of such services. In addition, broker-dealers could use the current
information required by Rule 606(a) as a means to evaluate and enhance their order routing and
execution services, compare their order routing and execution services to that of other firms, and
use such comparisons in selling their services to customers.
Moreover, current Rule 606(a) does not specify a minimum length of time that reports
must be made available from broker-dealers. As a result, customers placing retail orders may not

quality. Based on this evidence, [they] conclude that the decision of some national
brokerages to route all nonmarketable limit orders to a single exchange paying the
highest rebate is not consistent with the broker’s responsibility to obtain best execution
for customers.” See id.

188

be able to compare the order routing decisions of a broker-dealer through time, if past quarterly
reports are not available. Instead, customers may need to rely on third-party vendors to provide
and/or analyze past quarterly reports.
As noted above, conflicts of interest may affect institutional orders in ways similar to
effects on retail orders. The ad hoc nature of the current order handling disclosures of
institutional orders is not conducive to providing institutions with information they can use
efficiently to assess conflicts of interest. In particular, a broker-dealer for which conflicts of
interest influence routing decisions may have the incentive to obscure the conflicts of interest in
the ad hoc reports.
4.

Available Information on Execution Quality for Institutional and

Retail Orders
The Commission preliminarily believes that broker-dealers are incentivized to provide
their customers with information about the quality of services they offer as they may lose
business if their competitors provide reports and they do not. However, as described above,
under current rules, broker-dealers are not required to provide customers standardized reports
about the handling of their institutional orders and instead customers may receive ad-hoc reports
from broker-dealers upon request. Additionally, a broker-dealer may have an incentive to
structure its reports and provide data in a way that is advantageous to the broker-dealer.
Specifically, broker-dealers may want to design the ad hoc reports to highlight areas where the
broker-dealer believes it compares well to others and obscure areas where the broker-dealer may
not compare well or where customers are likely to have concerns. Separately, there are no public
reports about the handling of institutional orders for independent research and analysis, by
academic researchers, the public at large, or third-party vendors. Due to the limitations noted

189

above, the Commission preliminarily believes that customers may not be able to compare the
institutional order handling performance of broker-dealers reliably and as a result, broker-dealers
may have less incentive to compete on the quality of their institutional order handling, which
may result in broker-dealer routing practices that are suboptimal for customers, e.g., practices
that do not avoid excessive information leakage or that may not provide the execution quality
desired by the customer.
For customers placing retail orders, current Rule 606 requires quarterly public reports on
retail order routing and disclosure of retail order routing information upon request, but the
reports do not require information on payment for order flow received, payment from any profitsharing relationship received, or transaction rebates and access fees, and they are not required to
separate limit orders into marketable and non-marketable limit orders. As a result, it may be
difficult for customers to use the information provided in the reports to evaluate the quality of
their broker-dealers’ retail order routing. Customers may therefore not be well informed as to
how their broker-dealers manage any potential conflicts of interest they may face. The
Commission preliminarily believes providing payment for order flow data in the quarterly public
reports, broken down by calendar month, separately for marketable and non-marketable limit
orders would create an opportunity for more detailed analysis. 336
As noted above, the current information on retail order routing required by Rule 606(a)
may spur competition between broker-dealers on the basis of order routing services and
execution quality. 337 Customers may use the information required by Rule 606(a) to evaluate
and retain the services of a broker-dealer or to discontinue the use of such services. In addition,
336

See Battalio, Corwin, and Jennings Paper, supra note 57.

337

See supra Section III.B.

190

broker-dealers may use the current information required by Rule 606(a) as a means to: (1)
evaluate and enhance their order routing and execution services; (2) compare their order routing
and execution services to that of other firms; and (3) use such comparison in selling their
services to customers.
5.

Format of Current Reports for Institutional and Retail Orders

As discussed above, broker-dealers currently may provide some information on routing
and execution quality of institutional orders to individual customers in response to requests by
these customers. The Commission understands that broker-dealers provide these reports in a
variety of formats and a given broker-dealer may use different formats for different customers
and/or may modify their formats over time. The formats of these reports vary from unstructured
to structured formats, such as unstructured text and PDF files to structured XML files. The
Commission is soliciting comment on whether broker-dealers currently provide their reports in a
structured or unstructured format, and which format the broker-dealers use for these reports. For
those broker-dealers that provide their reports in a structured format, the Commission is further
soliciting comment on how prevalent or useful the selected structured format is.
Under current Rule 606(a), broker-dealers are required to provide public quarterly reports
on retail order routing. The current Rule 606(a) does not specify a format for these reports. The
Commission understands that broker-dealers currently provide these reports on a Web site or
downloadable as a PDF file. The reports typically are presented as tables with one line for each
listing exchange for NMS stocks and exchange-listed options, where each row represents metrics
for a particular routing venue, but they are not in a structured format.

191

6.

Quality of Broker-Dealer Routing Practices for Institutional Orders

The Commission does not have data to gauge the current level of quality of broker-dealer
routing practices for institutional orders, as current Rule 606 only covers retail orders and not
institutional orders. 338 As noted, customers of broker-dealers can and do request ad-hoc reports
about the handling of their orders and broker-dealers may voluntarily provide such reports.
Customers can use those reports to evaluate their broker-dealers’ routing practices. This, in turn,
may give broker-dealers additional incentives to provide high execution quality to their
customers. However, as discussed, there are limitations to the current situation, namely, the adhoc reports are not standardized across broker-dealers and there are no public reports that would
allow customers to evaluate all broker-dealers, independent of whether they place orders with
them or not.
7.

Use of Actionable IOIs in Institutional Orders

Some broker-dealers use actionable IOIs to communicate to external liquidity providers
to send an order to the broker-dealer in response to liquidity at the broker-dealer, generally a
customer’s institutional order. As noted above, because actionable IOIs convey similar
information as an order, a response to an actionable IOI may result in an execution at the venue
of the IOI sender. Accordingly, a broker-dealer’s use of actionable IOIs creates potential
information leakage similar to the routing of orders. The Commission does not have data to
gauge the current level of use of actionable IOIs by broker-dealers to attract orders to execute
against institutional orders represented by such actionable IOIs. In addition, current Rule 606 for
retail orders does not require the inclusion of actionable IOIs in the reports.

338

As noted above, including in Section V.B.3., current Rule 606 provides information on
the quality of broker-dealer routing practices for retail orders.

192

8.

Competition, Efficiency, and Capital Formation

The proposed amendments are likely to affect competition among broker-dealers that
route institutional and retail orders. These broker-dealers compete in a segment of the market for
broker-dealer services. The market for broker-dealer services is highly competitive, with most
business concentrated among a small set of large broker-dealers and thousands of small brokerdealers competing for niche or regional segments of the market. 339 To limit costs and make
business more viable, small broker-dealers often contract with larger broker-dealers or service
bureaus to handle certain functions, such as clearing and execution, or to update their
technology. 340 Larger broker-dealers typically enjoy economies of scale over small brokerdealers and compete with each other to service the smaller broker-dealers, who are both their
competitors and their customers. 341 Among other services, broker-dealers provide execution and
strategy services, distribute shares from initial public offerings, and provide analyst research on
securities. Brokerage commissions typically are charged for a broker-dealer’s premium
services, and represent an average, not marginal, cost of trading. 342

339

See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 63241 (November 3, 2010), 75 FR 69791,
69822 (November 15, 2010) (Risk Management Controls for Brokers or Dealers with
Market Access).

340

Id.

341

Id.

342

Brokerage commissions are fixed according to a client agreement and pay for expected
services, such as research, advice, and execution. However, while the commissions may
pay for a variety of services, broker-dealers charge them only on a per-share basis at the
time of an order’s execution. Therefore, the commissions reflect broker-dealers’
expectations of customers’ average use of services and not the cost of servicing each
order execution on a per-share basis. See Michael Goldstein, Paul Irvine, Eugene
Kandel, and Zwi Wiener, Brokerage Commissions and Institutional Trading Patterns, 22
Review of Financial Studies 5175 (December 2009).

193

As discussed in Section IV.C., as of December 2015, there were approximately 4,156
registered broker-dealers. 343 Of these, the Commission preliminarily estimates that 266 route
retail orders. 344 The Commission preliminarily estimates that 200 broker-dealers route
institutional orders, all of whom also route retail orders, and that each broker-dealer who routes
institutional orders will receive an average of 200 requests for reports pursuant to proposed Rule
606(b)(3) annually. 345 All of these broker-dealers compete for business from retail and
institutional customers. The Commission also preliminarily estimates that there are
approximately 5,594 customers that may place institutional orders. 346
Among other factors, broker-dealers may compete for retail and institutional customers
by trying to offer them better terms for trading, such as better execution quality. The emergence
of discount brokerages has encouraged full-service brokers to compete on price and led to the
unbundling of research from execution services. 347 In addition, the fragmentation of NMS stock
trading into 12 registered exchanges, more than 40 ATSs, and over 200 OTC market makers 348
has contributed to the need for broker-dealers to focus on venue selection in executing orders.
Broker-dealers may also innovate to attract new customers by, for example, offering access to
343

See supra note 232.

344

See supra note 233.

345

See supra notes 234 and 251.

346

The Commission preliminarily estimates the number of customers that may place
institutional orders as the number of 13F institutions as of December 31, 2015. The
Commission recognizes that not all of these institutions necessarily trade NMS Stocks
and not all necessarily submit orders that would qualify for the definition of institutional
order. Further, some customers that submit institutional orders may not be 13F
institutions. While this preliminary estimate may not be precise, the Commission
preliminarily believes that it approximates the number of customers that may be affected
by the proposed amendments.

347

See supra note 342.

348

See supra Section II.B.

194

algorithms designed to match trading or investment objectives. However, as noted above, the
information on which broker-dealers offer better terms of trade may be non-standardized,
presented inconsistently over time, or may employ complex calculations using undisclosed
methods. 349 Further, the format of the reports may limit the comparison of reports across brokerdealers. 350 As a result, customers may not be able to efficiently identify which broker-dealers
provide better execution quality. This may reduce the incentives for broker-dealers to compete
by offering better execution quality or to innovate on execution quality. Without the incentive to
compete by offering better execution quality, broker-dealers may route customer orders in ways
that do not necessarily promote better execution quality. 351 Such inefficient routing could have
effects on the market for trading services.
The market for trading services, which is served by trading centers, relies on competition
among these market centers to supply investors with execution services at efficient prices. These
market centers, which compete to, among other things, match traders with counterparties,
provide a framework for price negotiation, and provide liquidity to those seeking to trade. As
discussed in Section IV.C., the Commission preliminarily estimates that there are 380 market
centers to which Rule 605 applies. 352

349

See generally supra Sections V.B.1., V.B.4., and V.B.5.

350

See supra Section V.B.5. for a discussion of current formats. Broker-dealers provide
reports in a variety of formats and a given broker-dealer may use different structures and
formats for different customers. This makes it difficult to electronically read reports into
a system to compare multiple broker-dealers and conduct statistical analysis across
broker-dealers. Differing formats also make it difficult to electronically search across
broker-dealers for various data points in the reports.

351

See supra Section V.B.3. regarding the conflicts of interest broker-dealers have when
routing customer orders.

352

The Commission derived this estimate for purposes of the PRA based on the following:
236 OTC market makers (not including market makers claiming an exemption from the
195

These market centers compete with each other for order flow on a number of dimensions,
including execution quality. Their primary clients are the broker-dealers who route their own or
their customers’ orders for execution at the trading center. One way to attract order flow is to
offer payment for order flow. The Commission understands that a large portion of retail order
flow is sent to internalizers who pay for retail order flow. Trading centers also may innovate to
differentiate themselves from other trading centers to attract more order flow. For example,
several exchanges recently started pilots intended to provide better execution quality for retail
orders to attract more retail order flow. 353 Trading centers also may adjust fees and rebates to
incent broker-dealers to route more order flow to them. To the extent that broker-dealers route
orders for reasons other than execution quality, trading centers may have less of an incentive to
compete and innovate on execution quality. This may limit overall execution quality and result
in higher transaction costs for customers than would exist with greater competition on execution
quality.
Transaction costs reflect the level of efficiency in the trading process, with higher
transaction costs reflecting less efficiency. 354 Inefficiency in the trading process creates friction,
which limits the ability for prices to fully reflect a stock’s underlying value. 355 Stoll (2000)

reporting requirements of the Rule), plus 12 exchanges, 1 securities association, 86
exchange market makers, and 45 ATSs.
353

See, e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release No. 67347 (July 3, 2012), 77 FR 40673 (July
10, 2012) for the NYSE and NYSE MKT pilot; Securities Exchange Act Release No.
68303 (November 27, 2012), 77 FR 71652 (December 3, 2012) for the Bats BZX pilot;
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 71176 (December 23, 2013), 78 FR 79524 (July 30,
2013) for the NYSE Arca pilot; and Securities Exchange Act Release No. 73702
(November 28, 2014), 79 FR 72049 (December 4, 2014) for the Nasdaq BX pilot.

354

See Hans R. Stoll, Friction, 55 Journal of Finance 1479 (August 2000).

355

See id.

196

defines friction as follows: “Friction in financial markets measures the difficulty with which an
asset is traded.” 356 Stoll follows Demsetz (1968) 357 to “view friction as the price paid for
immediacy.” Thus, higher transaction costs imply higher friction in the market. Friction makes
it more costly to trade and makes investing less efficient. Further, friction limits the ability for
arbitrageurs or informed customers to push prices to their underlying values, and thus friction
makes prices less efficient.
As a result of the inefficiencies discussed above, a potential increase in transaction costs
in particular, may cause customers not to rebalance their portfolios as often as might otherwise
be optimal and security prices may less fully reflect true underlying values. This, in turn, may
limit efficient allocation and capital formation, as those issuers that have the best ideas may not
get the capital needed to fund them. In particular, the less perfectly efficient prices are, the less
able customers are to identify the issuers with the most profitable projects and thus the demand
for the stock of those issuers may not fully reflect these opportunities. Less demand could result
in a lower stock price, which would make it harder for these issuers to raise capital and result in
less favorable conditions for the capital they raise. 358
9.

Request for Comment

The Commission requests comments on its baseline analysis. In particular, the
Commission solicits comment on the following:

356

See id.

357

See Harold Demsetz, The Cost of Transacting, 82 Quarterly Journal of Economics 33
(February 1968).

358

The Commission also notes that less efficiently allocated capital could result in too much
relative funding available for unprofitable projects, which erode capital. In other words,
allocative inefficiency could mean that some issuers with unprofitable projects could
raise capital too easily.

197

124.

Do customers currently request institutional order handling reports from their
broker-dealers? Are those reports generally provided and if so, what information
do they generally contain? Are there differences in the responsiveness of brokerdealers to requests from different customers and/or over time? Are there
differences in the quality or detail of the reports by different broker-dealers? If
so, what impact do the differences have on the costs and benefits of the reports?
If possible, please provide specific estimates and data.

125.

Do broker-dealers already have systems in place to produce order handling
reports?

126.

Do customers currently receive institutional order handling reports that are
comparable to the public reports as proposed by Rule 606(c)? If so, what
information is contained in such reports and how, if at all, do those reports differ
from the proposed public reports? How do the costs and benefits of those reports
compare to the reports as proposed by Rule 606(c)? Please be specific and, if
possible, provide specific estimates or data.

127.

Do commenters believe that the Commission’s assessment of the baseline for the
economic analysis is correct? Why or why not? Please be specific.

128.

Do commenters believe that the baseline discussion provides a fair representation
of current practices under Rules 600, 605, and 606?

129.

Do commenters believe that the Commission’s description of the competitive
landscape for broker-dealers is accurate?

198

130.

Do commenters believe that the market participants identified by the Commission
as being affected by the proposed amendments to Rules 600, 605, and 606 is
correct?

131.

Do commenters believe that the Commission’s description of what information
market participants currently receive is accurate?

132.

Do commenters believe that the Commission’s description of the potential
conflicts of interest broker-dealers face when routing institutional or retail orders
is accurate? Why or why not? Please be specific in your response.

133.

Do commenters believe that the Commission’s description of the current quality
of broker-dealer order routing practices for institutional orders is accurate? Why
or why not? Please be specific in your response.

134.

Do commenters believe that the Commission’s description of the current use of
actionable IOIs is accurate? Why or why not? Please be specific in your
response.

135.

Do commenters believe that the Commission’s description of the current level of
competition, efficiency, and innovation is accurate? Why or why not? Please be
specific in your response.

C.

Costs and Benefits

The Commission preliminarily identified costs and benefits associated with the proposed
amendments to Rules 600, 605, and 606, which are discussed in this section. Many of these
costs and benefits are difficult to quantify, especially as the practices of market participants are
expected to evolve and may change due to the information on order routing and execution
quality that is required to be reported under the proposed amendments to Rules 600, 605, and

199

606. Therefore, much of the discussion is qualitative in nature but, where possible, the
Commission quantifies the costs.
Many, but not all, of the costs of the proposed amendments to Rules 600, 605, and 606
involve a collection of information, and these costs and burdens are discussed in the Paperwork
Reduction Act Section above, with those preliminary estimates being used in the economic
analysis below. 359
1.

Disclosures for Institutional Orders
a.

Definition of Institutional Order in Rule 600(b)(31)
i.

Benefits

Proposed Rule 600(b)(31) defines an institutional order as an order to buy or sell an NMS
stock that is not for the account of a broker-dealer and is an order for a quantity of an NMS stock
having a market value of at least $200,000. The $200,000 threshold determines the number of
institutional orders included in the proposed reporting requirements of Rule 606, as orders less
than $200,000 in market value are excluded from Rules 606(b)(3) and (c) for reporting purposes.
The Commission preliminarily estimates that at least 5% of the total executed volume in NMS
securities would meet this threshold. 360 The Commission preliminarily believes that the
proposed definition is simple and straightforward, as the same threshold would be applied to all
NMS stocks independent of the liquidity and other characteristics of the specific stock. In
addition, the definition of an institutional order in proposed Rule 600(b)(31) is the complement
359

See supra Section IV.

360

Commission staff calculated this estimate using a sample of institutional orders
purchased from Abel Noser Solutions, Ltd., a provider of TCA. The Commission
recognizes that this data may not include all institutional orders, but cannot predict how
incomplete the data are. The more incomplete this data set is, the more this statistic
underestimates the prevalence of institutional orders.

200

to the current definition of a “customer order,” which would be renamed “retail order” under the
proposed amendment to Rule 600(b)(18) (renumbered as 600(b)(19)). Specifically, proposed
Rule 600(b)(19), as amended, defines a “retail order” for NMS stocks as an order to buy or sell
an NMS stock that is not for the account of a broker-dealer and is an order for a quantity of an
NMS stock having a market value of less than $200,000. The definition of institutional order
would dovetail with the definition of retail order such that all customers’ orders would be
covered by order routing disclosure rules. Moreover, because there would be no overlap in the
definitions of retail and institutional orders—that is, an order would be classified as either retail
or institutional—there should be no double reporting for any order. 361
ii.

Costs

As noted above, the same threshold would be applied to all NMS stocks independent of a
stock’s liquidity. This uniform standard may, however, result in orders submitted by institutions
that are quite large when considering a stock’s activity level not meeting the definition of
institutional order. For example, an order for $200,000 in a small-cap stock that is illiquid is
very different from an order for $200,000 in a large-cap stock that is very liquid. 362 The
Commission recognizes that orders meeting the $200,000 threshold may not be as common for
illiquid stocks, and institutional customers may use orders smaller than $200,000, as supported
361

Current Rule 600(b)(18) defines a customer order and the definition is identical to the
definition of a retail order in proposed Rule 600(b)(19). Throughout this proposal, we
use the term “retail order” rather than “customer order,” even if we describe current rules
and practices, because “retail order” is the amended terminology proposed and the
definitions are identical.

362

For example, a $200,000 order in a liquid stock could be very small relative to the total
activity level of that stock whereas a $150,000 order in an illiquid stock could be half the
typical trading volume of that stock. The execution quality of the order in the illiquid
stock could be much more dependent on the routing practices of the broker-dealer than
the execution quality of the order in the liquid stock.

201

by staff analysis described below. As a result, the proposed definition may result in institutional
customers who submit such smaller orders in illiquid stock not obtaining the benefits from the
disclosures required in the proposed amendments to Rule 606, although the existing
requirements of Rule 606 for retail orders would still apply.
To determine the extent of institutional orders that would not meet this threshold, the
Commission staff examined a set of orders from institutions and found that 83.2% of the total
number of orders are smaller than $200,000. 363 However, 92% of total dollar volume from
orders of institutions in the data meets the proposed definition of an institutional order, i.e., an
order to buy or sell a quantity of an NMS stock having a market value of at least $200,000. The
percentage of orders from institutions that would meet the definition varies by activity level of
the stock, with a higher proportion meeting the definition in more active stocks. While
approximately 20% of orders from institutions in the group of most active stocks would meet the
proposed definition, less than 3% of orders from institutions in the group of least active stocks
would meet the proposed definition. 364 Therefore, the proposed definition of institutional order

363

Information on institutional equity trading for the sample period of 2013-2014 is obtained
from Abel Noser Solutions, Ltd. According to an academic study by Puckett and Yan
(2011), the dataset contains detailed equity trading information for each Abel Noser
client and includes a representative set of institutional investors including pension plan
sponsors (e.g., CalPERS, the Commonwealth of Virginia, and YMCA retirement fund)
and money managers (e.g., Massachusetts Financial Services (MFS), Putnam
Investments, and Lazard Asset Management). These clients accounted for at least 10%
of the total trading volume from 1999-2005, according to Puckett and Yan (2011). The
Commission assumes for purposes of this analysis that clients have continued to account
for at least this volume during its sample period. See, e.g., Andy Puckett and Xuemin
(Sterling) Yan, The Interim Trading Skills of Institutional Investors, 66 Journal of
Finance 601 (April 2011).

364

A stock is sorted into a decile according to average monthly dollar volume. The most
active stocks are defined as being those in the 10th decile of the distribution of stocks as
measured by the average monthly dollar volume, and the least active stocks are defined
202

covers a lower proportion of orders submitted by institutions in less active stocks than it does in
more active stocks.
The Commission notes that using any fixed threshold may have another drawback. For
example, market participants may change their behavior or stock prices may change over time.
Fixed thresholds generally provide an incentive for those affected by the threshold to alter their
actions to control whether the action is above or below the threshold. With respect to the
threshold in the definition of institutional order, customers may have an incentive to increase
their order sizes to exceed the threshold if they can get better information about routing and
execution quality for orders exceeding the threshold. 365 If such changes result in an increase in
the size of orders submitted by institutional customers, such that more orders from institutional
customers are meeting the $200,000 threshold to qualify as an “institutional order,” the proposed
amendments to Rule 606 would apply to a bigger proportion of all orders submitted by
institutional customers. This would increase the benefits of the proposed amendments to Rule
606 because institutional customers and the public would receive order handling information for
a larger proportion of all orders submitted by institutional customers. However, it would also
increase the costs of the proposed amendments to Rule 606 because the information required by
proposed Rules 606(b)(3) and (c) would have to be disclosed for a larger proportion of all orders
submitted by institutional customers. The Commission preliminarily believes that the increase in
costs would be negligible because the broker-dealers’ systems to generate the reports would

as being those in the 1st decile of the distribution of stocks as measured by the average
monthly dollar volume.
365

The Commission understands that customers currently split large orders across multiple
broker-dealers for reasons such as limiting the information that broker-dealers have about
the full order. On the margin, the proposed threshold could provide the incentive to
avoid splitting orders to pieces of less than $200,000.

203

already be in place and the marginal costs of adding one order in a report is likely to be low as it
would use only little additional computing time. Nonetheless, the Commission preliminarily
believes that these incentives may not significantly alter customer order sizes. In particular, if a
customer is able to obtain the same level of detail on the routing of all of their orders from
broker-dealers, regardless of whether the orders exceed the threshold to be institutional orders,
that customer may have little benefit in submitting their orders in larger pieces. Further, an
institution that splits its orders to avoid the risk of leaking information to its broker-dealer, would
incur information leakage costs with larger order sizes.
Conversely, if changes in market participants’ behavior or stock prices resulted in a
decrease in the size of orders submitted by institutional customers, such that fewer orders meet
the $200,000 threshold for “institutional orders,” then the proposed disclosure amendments to
Rule 606 pertaining to institutional order handling would apply to a smaller proportion of all
orders by institutional customers. This would lead to the public receiving order handling
information for a smaller proportion of all orders submitted by institutional customers and
therefore would reduce the benefits of the proposed amendments to Rule 606. Still, a decrease in
the size of orders submitted by institutional customers could also decrease the costs associated
with the institutional order handling disclosure required by the proposed amendments to Rule
606 (since fewer orders would qualify as “institutional orders”). The Commission preliminarily
believes, however, that this potential decrease in costs would be negligible since the marginal
cost of providing additional information on institutional orders once systems were in place to
produce such reports would be negligible. Moreover, under this scenario, the Commission notes
that while there may be a decrease in costs associated with institutional order handling
disclosures, broker-dealers may experience an increase in the number of orders covered in retail

204

order routing disclosure reports (because the orders that do not qualify as “institutional orders”
would nonetheless qualify as “retail orders” based on size). However, the Commission
preliminarily believes that any increase in the number of orders in retail order routing reports
would result in minimal costs as retail reports do not require extensive order routing information,
the system to generate the reports would already be in place, and the marginal costs of adding
additional orders would require little computing time.
iii.

Request for Comment

The Commission seeks comment on the definition of institutional order as proposed in
Rule 600(b)(31) and its analysis of the costs and benefits. In particular, the Commission solicits
comment on the following:
136.

Do commenters believe that the Commission’s proposed definition of institutional
order is appropriate from a costs and benefits perspective? If not, please provide
alternative definitions with a detailed discussion of what the advantages and costs
of those alternatives would be. For example, should the threshold be different for
different stocks? If yes, how? Should the threshold be a fixed dollar amount or
should it be variable over time or defined differently, e.g., relative to the average
daily volume of a stock? Please provide data and analysis to support your view.
b.

Customer Requests for Information on Institutional Order
Handling Under Proposed Rule 606(b)(3)
i.

Benefits

The proposed amendments to Rule 606 would provide transparency about order routing
and execution quality for institutional orders. Proposed Rule 606(b)(3) would require

205

standardized reports on institutional order handling, which would be made available to customers
upon request.
Competition in the market for brokerage services could be further promoted by more
transparent order routing practices and execution quality. The disclosures proposed in Rule
606(b)(3) would provide customers who submit institutional orders, including investment fund
managers, standardized information regarding their broker-dealers’ order routing practices and
execution quality. To the extent that the reports required by proposed Rule 606(b)(3) increase
the transparency of institutional order routing and execution quality, broker-dealers would be
better able to compete along the execution quality dimensions provided in the reports, such as the
fill rate, percentage of shares executed at the midpoint and priced at the near or far side of the
quote, and average time between order entry and execution or cancellation for orders posted to
the limit order book, in addition to commissions and other considerations that they currently
compete on. The Commission preliminarily believes that broker-dealers would have an
additional incentive to improve their order routing decisions as customers submitting
institutional orders could use the reports required by the proposed amendments to Rule 606 to
compare broker-dealers, which in turn could lead to better execution quality for institutional
orders.
There could also be an effect on the competition between trading centers. If brokerdealers improve their order routing decisions for institutional orders, thereby routing orders to
the trading centers that are more beneficial for their customers, this could further promote
competition between trading centers and spur innovation on execution quality. To illustrate, if
broker-dealers change their institutional order routing decisions to focus more on execution
quality and route fewer orders to a given trading center, that trading center would have an

206

incentive to take measures to attract and gain back order flow by innovating on execution
quality.
In addition to comparing broker-dealers based on the reports, customers may also initiate
a dialogue with their broker-dealers, or broker-dealers they are considering to use, about their
institutional order routing practices to better match the needs of the customers with the order
routing practices of the broker-dealers to whom they send orders.
As discussed in Section II.C., some customers currently request and receive reports about
order routing and execution quality of their institutional orders from their broker-dealers.
However, these reports are not standardized and as a result, it may be difficult to compare
broker-dealers based on those reports. In addition, the availability, detail, and quality of such
reports likely differ across customers, e.g., it might be the case that customers placing a greater
volume of institutional orders have easier access to such reports compared to customers with a
smaller volume of institutional orders. Moreover, the information provided by a broker-dealer
may vary over time without any standardized or required content for the reports. Proposed Rule
606(b)(3) addresses both of these concerns as the reports would be standardized for all brokerdealers and all institutional customers, making comparisons easier and analysis more useful.
Furthermore, every institutional customer would be able to receive reports upon request from
their broker-dealer.
However, for customers who already receive reports from their broker-dealers on the
handling of their institutional orders, the benefits of the reports required by proposed Rule
606(b)(3) may be modest or even non-existent, depending on the information the customers
currently receive. For example, the reports that customers already receive may be more detailed
and tailored to the particular customer. The reports also may provide different and potentially

207

more information than what proposed Rule 606(b)(3) requires. Therefore, the proposed
disclosure’s benefits to customers who may continue to receive detailed tailored reports is
preliminarily estimated to be minimal. Nevertheless, these customers would be able to more
readily compare broker-dealers due to the proposed requirement that the disclosures be
standardized.
Additionally, proposed Rule 606(b)(3) requires that a broker-dealer assign its order
routing strategies to one of three categories and that the reports contain information grouped by
those order routing strategies: passive, neutral, and aggressive. Proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(v)
defines “passive order routing strategy” as “one that emphasizes minimization of price impact
over the speed of execution”; “neutral order routing strategy” as one “that is relatively neutral
between minimization of price impact and the speed of execution of the entire institutional
order”; and “aggressive order routing strategy” as “one that emphasizes the speed of execution of
the entire institutional order over minimization of price impact.” The Commission preliminarily
believes that the requirement to group information by specified order routing strategy categories
should make comparisons among broker-dealers by customers placing institutional orders as well
as by the public possible because it would allow customers to control for the fact that brokerdealers may get different types of order flow. For example, to satisfy customer order instructions
one broker-dealer may tend to use an aggressive order routing strategy and another broker-dealer
may tend to use a passive order routing strategy, and simply comparing these two broker-dealers
without considering the order routing strategy category may lead to incorrect or misleading
conclusions.
Customers preferring passive order routing strategies may be willing to wait longer for an
execution but may want to limit price impact. Customers preferring aggressive order routing

208

strategies, however, may endure some price impact to trade quickly. Therefore, a broker-dealer
implementing a passive order routing strategy may, compared to an aggressive order routing
strategy, tend to route to a dark pool where execution may be less certain, but likely at a better
price. 366 Similarly, a broker-dealer implementing passive order routing strategies may be able to
place orders providing liquidity more often, thereby capturing more rebates. 367 As a result, the
routing statistics of a broker-dealer that implements predominantly passive order routing
strategies should differ from those of a broker-dealer that implements predominantly aggressive
order routing strategies. Therefore, including the categories of order routing strategies in the
order handling report can facilitate an assessment of how well a broker-dealer manages its
conflicts of interest and provides execution quality that matches customer preferences because it
provides information on the preferences communicated by that broker-dealers’ customers. It can
also assist in comparing broker-dealers that may not receive the same mix of order instructions
from customers.

366

See, e.g., Albert J. Menkveld, Bart Zhou Yueshen, and Haoxiang Zhu, Shades of
Darkness: A Pecking Order of Trading Venues, Working Paper (2015). The authors find
that there exists a pecking order of trading venues that puts low-cost-low-immediacy
venues on top and high-cost-high-immediacy venues at the bottom. This suggests that if
an order is a passive order and executed with passive order routing strategy, the brokerdealer would prefer low-cost-low-immediacy venues, which the paper identifies as dark
pools that execute at the midpoint.

367

Compared to an aggressive order routing strategy, a passive order routing strategy may
reduce transaction costs and allow the capture of rebates, but immediate execution is not
certain. See Lawrence Harris and Joel Hasbrouck, Market vs. Limit Orders: The
SuperDOT Evidence on Order Submission Strategy, 31 Journal of Financial and
Quantitative Analysis 213, 230 (June 1996) (concluding that passive order routing
strategies achieve better average performance than aggressive order routing strategies in
certain markets). See also Maker-Taker Memo, supra note 55, at 18 (discussing makertaker fees in U.S. equity markets). A broker-dealer can be more patient in implementing
a passive order routing strategy and does not have to seek immediate execution.

209

The requirement to differentiate the proposed disclosures into the three order routing
strategy categories should help mitigate the possibility that the reports could be interpreted
incorrectly. However, there could still be differences among broker-dealers in how they classify
orders into the three strategy categories, which could make straight comparisons between brokerdealers difficult. Proposed Rule 606(b)(3)(v) requires broker-dealers to “assign each order
routing strategy that it uses for institutional orders to one of [the] three categories in a consistent
manner for each report it prepares,” to “promptly update the assignments any time an existing
strategy is amended or a new strategy is created that would change such assignments,” and to
“document the specific methodologies it relies upon for making such assignments.” The
proposed Rule defines the general characteristics of the three order routing strategies in terms of
the trade-off between the minimization of price impact and the speed of execution of the entire
institutional order. However, the proposed Rule does not prescribe how this trade-off should be
taken into consideration. Broker-dealers would have discretion to determine how to do this
when establishing their methodologies to assign categories in a consistent manner and when
applying the methodologies to assign into categories the routing strategies and, as a result,
broker-dealers might not have the exact same definitions for the three order routing strategy
categories.
Under proposed Rule 606(b)(3), customers can obtain detailed information on the brokerdealer internalization rate and payment for order flow received. Currently, broker-dealers may
prefer to internalize uninformed order flow. 368 Under proposed Rule 606(b)(3), a customer
would have information on whether its order flow is being internalized and could use this

368

See Hitesh Mittal, Are You Playing in a Toxic Dark Pool? A Guide to Preventing
Information Leakage, 3 Journal of Trading 20 (Summer 2008).

210

information in its relationships with its broker-dealers. Similarly, a customer would be able to
examine the payment for order flow to determine if its order flow is sold to a third-party. In
addition, customers may be interested in how maker-taker fees affect where broker-dealers route
their institutional orders. If a customer pays a flat-rate commission to its broker-dealer, and any
fraction of the rebate is retained by the broker-dealer, then the broker-dealer has a financial
incentive to route the order to the trading center offering the highest rebate or lowest fee. 369 At
present, the brokerage commission, which is known to the customer, may be lowest when a
broker-dealer concentrates order flow in a high rebate and/or low fee trading center. 370
Customers might be concerned if orders routed to a high-rebate destination do not execute or do
so with a delay, as information about the order may leak into the market, thereby affecting price
impact.
Proposed Rule 606(b)(3) requires the inclusion of actionable IOIs in institutional order
handling disclosures. Proposed Rule 600(b)(1) defines an actionable IOI as “any indication of
interest that explicitly or implicitly conveys all of the following information with respect to any
order available at the venue sending the indication of interest: (1) symbol; (2) side (buy or sell);
(3) a price that is equal to or better than the national best bid for buy orders and the national best
offer for sell orders; and (4) a size that is at least equal to one round lot.”
The inclusion of actionable IOIs in the proposed reporting requirements of broker-dealers
should provide customers a more complete picture of how their institutional orders are handled.
369

A broker-dealer may take into account rebates when setting its flat-rate commission by
asking for a lower commission. As long as the rebates are not passed through to the
customer, however, the broker-dealer still has the incentive to maximize rebate capture.

370

See Shawn O’Donoghue, The Effect of Maker-Taker Fees on Investor Order Choice and
Execution Quality in U.S. Stock Markets (January 23, 2015), available at
http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2607302.

211

Since actionable IOIs can convey similar information as an order, a response to an actionable IOI
may result in an execution at the venue of the IOI sender and thus can represent a portion of the
liquidity available at a given price and time. The Commission therefore preliminarily believes
that actionable IOIs should be included in the required disclosure of how institutional orders are
handled. In addition, because an actionable IOI can convey similar information as an order, the
use of actionable IOIs may contribute to information leakage in a similar way as the use of
orders. 371 Excluding actionable IOIs therefore would not provide a complete picture of
institutional order routing and executions and could provide broker-dealers with an incentive to
use actionable IOIs instead of orders to circumvent the proposed disclosure requirements in Rule
606.
The proposed definition of actionable IOI in Rule 600(b)(1), however, may limit the
benefits achieved. Specifically, the proposed definition is substantively similar to the description
of actionable IOI in the Regulation of Non-Public Trading Interest Release. Comments received
on the Regulation of Non-Public Trading Interest Release indicated that some commenters are
concerned that the discussion of actionable IOIs in that release was too stringent. 372 If the
proposed definition of actionable IOIs is, in fact, too stringent, then some IOIs would not be
included in the definition of actionable IOI and would not be captured by the proposed reports on
institutional order handling. Consequently, it is possible that institutional customers might find
the reports to be less informative on institutional order handling than if the definition of

371

See supra Section II.C.4.

372

Comments on the proposed rule for Regulation of Non-Public Trading Interest are
available at http://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-27-09/s72709.shtml. Comments on
actionable IOIs can be found in the following letters: http://www.sec.gov/comments/s727-09/s72709-46.pdf and http://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-27-09/s72709-48.pdf.

212

actionable IOIs was broader. This suggests that defining actionable IOIs too narrowly may limit
the benefits of the proposed amendments.
An additional benefit of having the institutional order handling information available
upon request is that institutional customers could combine the order handling information with
existing TCA or enhance their TCA. As noted above, institutional customers often work with
independent third-party vendors to perform TCA as a means of evaluating the cost and quality of
brokerage services. Institutional customers can also conduct their own TCA in-house. TCA,
whether conducted in-house or by a third-party, generally analyzes data on the parent orders, but
typically cannot analyze data on the child orders because of the lack of standardization of the
current ad hoc order handling information. As a consequence, existing TCA typically does not
incorporate information on how many child orders exist, a broker-dealer’s institutional order
routing strategy, nor cost, routing, and execution quality for individual child orders. The
disclosures required by proposed Rule 606(b)(3) would close this informational gap, so that
customers would have more information on how broker-dealers handle and execute parent and
child institutional orders.
With this additional information, institutional customers or their third-party vendors
could combine the routing information with execution information to conduct a more thorough
TCA than they can currently. In particular, the information in proposed Rule 606(b)(3) may be a
factor that can explain transaction cost variations and thus, the reports from the proposed
amendments could be combined with TCA to help explain differences in transaction costs and in
performance as measured by TCA across broker-dealers. For example, TCA often includes
transaction cost measures such as implementation shortfall, but proposed Rule 606(b)(3) would

213

not. 373 With TCA alone, a customer may observe different implementation shortfall across
broker-dealers. The proposed amendments could allow the customers or their third-party
vendors to correlate implementation shortfall with the routing decisions of the broker-dealers.
This could assist the customers in assessing the execution quality provided by their brokerdealers. In summary, the Commission preliminarily believes that proposed Rule 606(b)(3) may
complement and enhance all customers’ evaluations of institutional order handling quality,
including those of customers who use TCA.
Finally, proposed Rule 606(b)(3) would require reports to be made available using an
XML schema and associated PDF renderer to be published on the Commission’s Web site. 374
The benefits, as well as the costs, associated with this requirement are discussed in Section
V.C.4.
ii.

Costs

As discussed above, some customers currently request reports about the handling of their
institutional orders from their broker-dealers and those reports may be less or more detailed and
provide different and potentially less or potentially more information than proposed Rule
606(b)(3) would require. If the reports broker-dealers currently provide to a customer more or
different information, proposed Rule 606(b)(3) could impose a cost on such a customer to the
extent broker-dealers stop providing the more detailed or additional information and instead
373

For example, proposed Rule 606(b)(3) would not require reports to contain any
information on implementation shortfall costs of parent orders, which are a key focus for
investors placing institutional orders. In general, the proposed amendments are not
intended to replace TCA and, therefore, do not include many metrics common to TCA.
However, the Commission recognizes that the ability to use the proposed amendments to
enhance TCA may make TCA more valuable and increase the incentives for customers to
use TCA, either in-house or through a third-party vendor.

374

See supra Section III.A.3.

214

provide only the data required for institutional order handling by proposed Rule 606(b)(3). The
Commission preliminarily believes that this scenario is not very likely because, even if Rule
606(b)(3) is adopted, customers could still request additional information or customized reports
from their broker-dealers and broker-dealers are likely to satisfy such requests, to the extent they
currently do, to retain their customers. As discussed above, the willingness of broker-dealers to
provide such customized reports to customers and how detailed such a report is might depend on
the business relationship between the broker-dealer and the customer. Customers who send or
may send a large number of orders to a broker-dealer might be able to get customized reports
more easily compared to customers who send fewer orders, and those reports might be more
detailed compared to reports that customers who send fewer orders receive. While proposed
Rule 606(b)(3) mitigates this issue in that every customer would be able to request the
standardized reports required by proposed Rule 606(b)(3), the Commission recognizes that to the
extent large institutional customers are able to receive customized reports that provide
information not contained in the required reports, those large institutional customers would
continue to have an advantage over smaller institutional customers who are not able to receive
the same reports.
In addition, the greater transparency provided as a result of the new reports required
under proposed Rule 606(b)(3) might lead broker-dealers to change how they handle institutional
orders. Given that broker-dealers would be aware of the metrics to be used a priori, they might
route institutional orders in a manner that promotes a positive reflection on their respective
services but which may be suboptimal for their customers. Any changes to broker-dealers’ order
routing decisions due to proposed Rule 606(b)(3) may be intended to benefit customers placing
institutional orders, but if broker-dealers and customers focus exclusively on the metrics in the

215

reports required by proposed Rule 606(b)(3), the order routing decisions could also be viewed as
suboptimal for some customers.
For example, suppose a broker-dealer routes institutional orders so that the orders execute
at lower cost with a higher fill rate, shorter duration, and more price improvement than the
broker-dealer’s competitors. However, it could be the case that, in order to achieve these
objectives, the broker-dealer routes the majority of non-marketable limit order shares to the
trading center offering the highest rebate. An institutional customer that reviews the proposed
routing reports might suspect that the broker-dealer acted in its self-interest by selecting the
highest rebate venue in order to maximize rebates when in fact, the broker-dealer made the
decision based on other variables, which might not be completely reflected in the proposed
reports. Under the proposed amendments to Rule 606, the broker-dealer may be concerned about
the perception of acting on a conflict of interest, when the broker-dealer is in fact acting in the
customers’ interests. As a result, a broker-dealer may be incentivized to route fewer nonmarketable limit order shares to the trading center offering the highest rebate, even if this
imposes additional costs on the broker-dealer’s customers, in an effort to ensure that a customer
does not misconstrue the intent behind the broker-dealer’s routing decisions. Such a potential
outcome could reduce the intensity of competition between broker-dealers on the dimension of
execution quality.
In addition, as noted above, proposed Rule 606(b)(3) requires the inclusion of actionable
IOIs in the reports on institutional order handling broker-dealers would provide to their
customers. The Commission expects that broker-dealers will incur costs from the inclusion of
actionable IOIs in the reports as a result of having to process additional data and run additional

216

calculations. The estimated cost of including actionable IOIs in the proposed reports is included
in the aggregate costs described in the discussion below and in greater detail in Section IV.D.1.
The disclosure requirements of proposed Rule 606(b)(3) would also impose a monetary
cost, as the required disclosures could entail some reprogramming by broker-dealers that execute
or route institutional orders. These costs may be low for a given broker-dealer if the brokerdealer already supplies similar reports on institutional order handling upon requests by their
customers. In addition to reprogramming, receiving and processing customer requests as well as
preparing and transmitting the data to customers on request would impose costs.
As discussed in Section IV.D.1., the Commission preliminarily estimates that the onetime, initial burden for a broker-dealer that routes institutional orders that does not currently
retain the proposed order handling information to program systems in-house to implement the
requirements imposed by the proposed amendments to Rule 606 would be 200 hours resulting in
a monetized cost burden of $60,420 per broker-dealer. 375 The Commission preliminarily
estimates the one-time, initial burden for a broker-dealer that routes institutional orders that does
not currently create the proposed order handling information to engage a third-party to program
their systems to implement the requirements of the proposed amendments to Rule 606(b)(3) to be
50 hours resulting in a monetized cost burden of $15,125 per broker-dealer. 376 In these cases,
the Commission further preliminarily estimates a fee of $35,000 per broker-dealer to engage the
third-party service provider. 377 The Commission preliminarily believes that most broker-dealers
either have systems that currently retain the information required by the proposed rule, or use

375

See supra note 237.

376

See supra note 238.

377

See supra note 239.

217

third-party vendors who have systems that retain such information. The Commission therefore
preliminarily estimates that 25 broker-dealers that route institutional orders do not currently have
systems that retain the information required by the proposed amendments or use a third-party
vendor to retain such information. 378 The Commission preliminarily estimates that of the 25
broker-dealers that route institutional orders who do not currently have systems in place to retain
the information required by the proposed rule, 10 such broker-dealers will perform the necessary
programming upgrades in-house, and 15 will engage a third-party to perform the programming
upgrades. Additionally, of the 25 broker-dealers that route institutional orders who do not
currently have systems in place to retain the information required by the rule, the Commission
preliminarily estimates that 10 such broker-dealers will need to purchase hardware and software
upgrades to fulfill the requirements of the proposed rule at an average cost of $15,000 per
broker-dealer, and that the remaining 15 broker-dealers have adequate hardware and software to
retain the information proposed by the rule. Therefore, the total initial burden for all brokerdealers that route institutional orders who do not currently retain order handling information
required by the proposed rule to program systems to comply with the proposed rule change is
2,750 hours resulting in a monetized cost burden of $831,075, plus an additional fee of $675,000
to engage the third-party service providers. 379
As discussed in Section IV.D.1., the Commission preliminarily estimates the average cost
for a broker-dealer who routes institutional orders who already retains information required by
the proposed rule to format its systems to produce a report to comply with the proposed rule to

378

See supra note 236.

379

See supra note 240.

218

be 40 hours resulting in a monetized cost burden of $12,084. 380 The Commission preliminarily
estimates the average burden for a broker-dealer who routes institutional orders who uses a thirdparty service provider to work with such service provider to ensure proper reports are produced
to be 20 hours resulting in a monetized cost burden of $5,726. 381 In these cases, the Commission
further preliminarily estimates a fee of $5,000 per-broker to engage the third-party service
provider. 382 The Commission preliminarily estimates that, of the 175 broker-dealers who route
institutional orders who currently retain the information required pursuant to the rule and need
only format their systems to produce a report required by the rule, 50 such broker-dealers will
use a third-party vendor to ensure proper reports are produced and the remaining 125 brokerdealers will perform the necessary work in-house. Thus, the total cost for all broker-dealers who
route institutional orders who only need to format their systems to prepare a report to comply
with the proposed rule is preliminarily estimated to be 6,000 hours resulting in a monetized cost
burden of $1,796,800, plus an additional fee of $250,000 to engage the third-party service
providers. 383 Therefore, the total initial burden for all broker-dealers to comply with proposed
Rule 606(b)(3) is preliminarily estimated to be 8,750 hours resulting in an estimated cost of
$2,627,875, plus an additional fee of $925,000 to engage the third-party service providers. 384
As discussed in Section IV.D.1, the Commission preliminarily estimates that an average
response to a Rule 606(b)(3) request for a broker-dealer who handles its own responses will take

380

See supra note 242.

381

See supra note 243.

382

See supra note 244.

383

See supra note 245.

384

See supra note 247.

219

approximately 2 hours per response resulting in a monetized cost burden of $380. 385 For a
broker-dealer that routes institutional orders who will use a third-party service provider to
respond to requests pursuant to Rule 606(b)(3), the Commission preliminarily estimates the
burden to be 1 hour per response resulting in a monetized cost burden of $283. 386 In these
cases, the Commission preliminarily estimates an additional third-party service provider fee of
$100 per response. 387 The Commission preliminarily estimates that an average broker-dealer
will receive approximately 200 requests annually. 388 Therefore, the total annual burden for all
200 broker-dealers that route institutional orders to comply with the customer response
requirement in proposed Rule 606(b)(3) is preliminarily estimated to be 67,000 hours, resulting
in a monetized cost burden of $13,939,000, plus an additional fee of $1,300,000 to compensate
third-party service providers for producing the reports. 389
Further, as a result of proposed Rule 606(b)(3), broker-dealers that route institutional
orders would likely re-evaluate their best execution methodologies to take into account the
availability of new statistics and other information that may be relevant to their decision making.
This may impose a cost only to the extent that broker-dealers choose to build the proposed
statistics into their best execution methodologies. In addition, they may only choose to do so if
the benefits justify the costs.
Another potential cost of proposed Rule 606(b)(3) is that the reports could be viewed as a
replacement of TCA and therefore have a negative impact on the market for TCA. Specifying a
385

See supra note 250.

386

See supra note 254.

387

See supra note 255.

388

See supra note 251.

389

See supra notes 259 and 260.

220

minimum length of time for making the Rule 606 reports publicly available may further impose a
cost on third-party vendors that aggregate the time series of the reports. For example, suppose
that a customer chooses to no longer purchase TCA once reports from proposed Rule 606(b)(3)
become available, because the customer decides that the information contained in proposed Rule
606(b)(3) reports is sufficient. If fewer customers purchase TCA, it would have a negative
impact on third-party providers of TCA as well as third-party data vendors, e.g., in terms of less
demand for their services, and the quality of TCA provided by third-parties may decrease
because third-party providers of TCA might have fewer resources for the development and
maintenance of their product offerings and because fewer customers may also lead to less data
the third-party providers can base their models on. 390 However, as discussed in Section
V.C.1.b.i, the reports required by proposed Rule 606(b)(3) would provide information that could
be complementary to TCA. As discussed above, in fact, proposed Rule 606(b)(3) could make
TCA more useful and provide incentives to customers to use TCA. As a result, the Commission
preliminarily believes that proposed Rule 606(b)(3) will not replace TCA.
As discussed in Section V.C.1.b.i, proposed Rule 606(b)(3) would require differentiating
order routing strategies for institutional orders into three types: passive, neutral, and aggressive
order routing strategies. The Commission preliminarily believes that broker-dealers would incur
costs associated with creating their methodologies, assigning each order routing strategy for
institutional orders into one of these three categories according to the methodologies, promptly
updating the assignments any time an existing strategy is amended or a new strategy is created
390

Based on staff experience, the Commission understands that customers of third-party
TCA providers typically transmit their execution data to their TCA providers. The thirdparty TCA providers in turn base their models on the data they receive from all their
customers. Having more data to base models on is generally beneficial and may result in
better models.

221

that would change such assignments, and documenting the specific methodologies it relies upon
for making such assignments. The Commission preliminarily estimates the one-time, initial
burden for a broker-dealer that routes institutional orders to establish and document in-house its
specific methodologies for assigning order routing strategies as required by proposed Rule
606(b)(3)(v) to be 40 hours resulting in a monetized cost burden of $12,620. 391 The Commission
preliminarily estimates the one-time, initial burden for a broker-dealer that routes institutional
orders who will work with a third-party service provider to assign into categories its current
order routing strategies and establish and document its specific methodologies as required by
Rule 606(b)(3)(v) to be 10 hours resulting in a monetized cost burden of $2,896 plus an
additional fee of $5,000 to the third-party service provider. 392 These figures are based on the
estimated number of hours to establish and review such methodologies. As noted above, the
Commission preliminarily estimates that 135 broker-dealers who route institutional orders will
create the required reports themselves while 65 such broker-dealers will use a third-party service
provider to create the required reports. Therefore, the total initial burden for all broker-dealers
that route institutional orders to assign its routing strategies into passive, neutral, and aggressive
strategies is preliminarily estimated to be 6,050 hours resulting in a monetized cost burden of
$1,891,940 plus an additional fee of $325,000 to the third-party service providers. 393
Once the methodologies are established and documented, broker-dealers that route
institutional orders would be required to assign each order routing strategy for institutional
orders into one of these three categories according to the methodologies in a consistent manner

391

See supra note 277.

392

See supra notes 279 and 280.

393

See supra notes 283 and 284.

222

and promptly update the assignments any time an existing strategy is amended or a new strategy
is created that would change such assignments. 394 The Commission preliminarily estimates that
the annual cost for a broker-dealer who will assign its order routing strategies to one of the three
categories and update such assignments in-house to comply with Rule 606(b)(3)(v) will be 15
hours resulting in a monetized cost burden of $3,500. 395 The Commission preliminarily
estimates that the annual burden for a broker-dealer who routes institutional orders who engages
a third-party service provider to assign the order routing strategies into categories to comply with
Rule 606(b)(3)(v) will be 5 hours resulting in a monetized cost burden of $1,609 plus an
additional third-party service provider fee of $1,000. 396 As noted above, the Commission
preliminarily estimates that 135 broker-dealers who route institutional orders will create the
required reports themselves while 65 such broker-dealers will use a third-party service provider
to create the required reports. Therefore, the total annual burden for broker-dealers that route
institutional orders to assign the routing strategies of their institutional orders into passive,
neutral, and aggressive strategies is preliminarily estimated to be 2,350 hours resulting in a
monetized cost burden of $577,085 plus an additional third-party service provider fee of
$65,000. 397

394

For example, a broker-dealer may develop new order routing strategies, change existing
order routing strategies, or change the descriptions of existing order routing strategies.

395

See supra note 285.

396

See supra notes 287 and 288.

397

See supra notes 291 and 292.

223

iii.

Request for Comment

The Commission requests comment on the Commission’s analysis of the costs and
benefits of the proposed amendments in Rule 606(b)(3). In particular, the Commission solicits
comment on the following:
137.

Are the assumptions underlying the Commission’s estimates for the costs of
implementation and ongoing costs to comply with the proposal appropriate?
Please provide data and analysis to support your view.

138.

Do commenters believe that broker-dealers currently have systems that contain
the data that would be used in the reports? What data would be incremental to
that already maintained by broker-dealers? What incremental costs would be
necessary to modify and maintain information systems architecture?

139.

Do commenters believe there are additional costs or benefits that could be
quantified or otherwise monetized? If so, please identify these costs and benefits.
Please explain and provide specific data and estimates.

140.

Do commenters believe there are any additional costs or benefits that may arise
from the proposal? Are there costs and benefits described that would likely not
result from the proposed amendments? Are there any unintended consequences
that have not been discussed that may result from the proposal?

141.

Do commenters believe that there are methods by which the Commission could
reduce the costs imposed by the proposal, while still achieving its stated goals?
Please explain in detail.

224

The Commission also seeks comment on the analysis of the costs and benefits for the
definition of an actionable IOI in proposed Rule 600(b)(1). In particular, the Commission
solicits comment on the following:
142.

Do commenters believe that the Commission’s proposed definition of actionable
IOI is appropriate in light of the estimated costs and benefits? If not, please
provide alternative definitions with a detailed discussion of what the benefits and
costs of those alternatives would be. Please provide data and analysis to support
your view.
c.

Public Reports for Institutional Orders Under Proposed Rule
606(c)
i.

Benefits

Proposed Rule 606(c) would require public quarterly reports broken down by calendar
month on the order routing and execution quality of institutional orders by each broker-dealer.
As a result, proposed Rule 606(c) would provide the public with standardized information
regarding all broker-dealers’ institutional order routing practices and execution quality
aggregated across each broker-dealer’s customers.
While these reports would be aggregated across all customers a broker-dealer serves, the
reports would allow current and prospective customers to compare broker-dealers’ institutional
order routing practices and execution quality and ultimately, to inform their choice of brokerdealers. For example, customers may use the quarterly public reports broken down by calendar
month to decide whether they should enter into a business relationship with broker-dealers to
whom they do not currently send orders. Additionally, the reports may allow customers to
compare the execution services of their current broker-dealers with other competitors, who might

225

offer the same execution quality at lower costs, improved execution quality at the same costs, or
lower cost services and better execution quality.
As discussed in Section V.C.1.b.i, greater transparency about order routing practices and
execution quality may promote competition in the market for brokerage services and between
trading centers. The Commission preliminarily believes that public aggregated institutional
order handling reports required by proposed Rule 606(c) would increase the transparency of
institutional order routing and execution quality and provide additional information to customers
beyond that provided by customer-specific reports required by proposed Rule 606(b)(3).
Customers would be able to compare their broker-dealers not just based on the orders they send
to the broker-dealers, but also based on all institutional orders handled by the broker-dealers. In
addition, customers would be able to evaluate the order routing and execution quality of brokerdealers they do not send orders to and could determine whether to send orders to a given brokerdealer based on such evaluation.
Broker-dealers, in turn, might be able to adjust their business practices to compete better,
specifically along the dimensions of order routing and execution quality and, through the public
aggregated institutional order handling reports, try to attract orders from customers with whom
they do not yet have a business relationship. The Commission preliminarily believes that the
broker-dealers would have greater incentive to route institutional orders in a manner beneficial to
a customer in order to attract additional order flow from those customers who may use the public
aggregated institutional order handling reports required by proposed Rule 606(c) to compare
relative broker-dealer execution quality. Ultimately, greater transparency may increase
competition in the brokerage services market, thereby potentially reducing costs to customers in

226

terms of cost of services and execution quality for institutional orders, of which transaction costs
is one measure.
As discussed in Section V.C.1.b.i, if broker-dealers change their institutional order
routing decisions, it might promote competition among trading centers. The public aggregated
institutional order handling reports required by proposed Rule 606(c) would allow trading
centers to compare the execution quality of orders on different trading centers as well as the
routing behavior of broker-dealers. The trading centers would have a further incentive to
improve execution quality to attract order flow and the public aggregated institutional order
handling reports that are broken down by month would allow them to see the effects of any
changes they implement. In addition, this may lead to innovation by existing trading centers and
it may attract new entrants and the formation of new trading centers.
As discussed for the customer-specific reports required by proposed Rule 606(b)(3) in
Section V.C.1.b.i, customers may also initiate a dialogue with their broker-dealers, or brokerdealers they are considering to use, based on the public aggregated institutional order handling
reports required by proposed Rule 606(c). This dialogue may include discussions about conflicts
of interest 398 and how to match the needs of customers with the order routing practices of the
broker-dealers to whom they send orders.
Further, third-party vendors offering analytical services may use the information in the
public aggregated institutional order handling reports in an attempt to sell customized reporting
398

As noted above, institutional customers may be able to utilize the customer-specific
reports as required by proposed Rule 606(b)(3) to examine the venues their brokerdealers are routing orders to and the rebates received and fees paid. The Commission
notes that similar information would be reflected in the public aggregated institutional
order handling reports and could be useful for institutional customers to discuss order
routing practices and management of conflicts of interest with broker-dealers or
prospective broker-dealers.

227

tools and services. These types of consulting services may allow customers and the public to
better identify the potential conflicts of interest that broker-dealers face with directing order flow
to trading centers offering liquidity rebates and fees.
Greater transparency of institutional order routing and execution could help shed light on
the effect of today’s dispersed and complex market structure on order routing decisions and
related execution quality. The Commission preliminarily believes that the requirement in
proposed Rule 606(c) for quarterly disclosure on order routing, order execution, and orders that
provide and remove liquidity for each venue broken down by order routing strategy should
provide the public with a better understanding of the operating procedures of broker-dealers and
how their decisions are affected by the current market structure. In addition, the information on
rebates and fees broker-dealers receive or incur would allow the public to assess how brokerdealers manage potential conflicts of interest they face when routing institutional orders.
As discussed for the customer-specific reports required by proposed Rule 606(b)(3) in
Section V.C.1.b.i., the public aggregated institutional order handling reports broken down by
calendar month required by proposed Rule 606(c) would also give customers information about
broker-dealer internalization rates and the rebates received and fees paid by broker-dealers. As
described above, the public aggregated institutional order handling reports would require the
disclosure of information by all broker-dealers that receive institutional orders. Customers
would be able to compare internalization rates of their broker-dealers and rebates received and
fees paid by their broker-dealers to those of broker-dealers they do not send orders to.

As such,

the information about broker-dealer internalization rates, rebates, and fees in the public
aggregated institutional order handling reports required by proposed Rule 606(c) would be
complementary to the customer-specific reports required by proposed Rule 606(b)(3), which

228

would provide customers only information about their orders rather than all orders a given
broker-dealer receives.
In addition, proposed Rule 606(c) would require the public aggregated institutional order
handling reports to be posted on an Internet Web site that is free and readily accessible to the
public for a period of three years from the initial date of posting on the Internet Web site. This
requirement would allow customers and the public to readily access historical data for at least
three years without the need to download the reports frequently, e.g., quarterly, or purchasing the
data from a third-party vendor. Customers and the public could analyze the historical data and
evaluate the order routing decisions and execution quality provided by broker-dealers based on
the historical data.
Further, the public aggregated institutional order handling reports required by proposed
Rule 606(c) could improve the extent and quality of information available to the Commission
and other regulatory agencies, thereby assisting in the regulatory oversight of broker-dealers’
operations.
Finally, proposed Rule 606(c) would require the public aggregated institutional order
handling reports be made available using an XML schema and associated PDF renderer to be
published on the Commission’s Web site. 399 The benefits and costs associated with this
requirement are discussed in Section V.C.4.
ii.

Costs

The Commission considered whether the public aggregated institutional order handling
reports that would be required pursuant to proposed Rule 606(c) may disclose information about
specific institutional orders that currently is not publicly available, and preliminarily believes
399

See supra Section III.A.3.

229

that the possibility of such disclosure and associated costs are small. First, the reports required
by proposed Rule 606(c) would be quarterly reports broken down by calendar month made
public within one month after the end of the quarter. As a result, it is very unlikely that the
reports would contain any information about orders that are being worked by broker-dealers at
the time of publication. Second, the reports would be aggregated across all customers a brokerdealer serves. To the extent that a broker-dealer serves multiple customers placing institutional
orders, it would be difficult to identify the orders of a particular customer in the proposed
reports. However, it is possible that, for example, a smaller broker-dealer may have one
customer placing institutional orders that represents the majority of its business and this may be
known to other market participants. In this case, it may be possible to learn from the reports
some information about the order flow of that customer, particularly the order flow given to the
specific broker-dealer. This information would not be about active orders but could provide
historical information about the general characteristics of the customer’s order flow, e.g., how
much of its order flow has been handled using aggressive or passive order routing strategies. To
the extent that these characteristics apply to future orders, this information may be useful to other
market participants. Such a potential outcome could put smaller broker-dealers (that is, those
with a small set of customers or handling a relatively small number of institutional orders) at a
competitive disadvantage relative to larger broker-dealers, as customers might avoid using
smaller broker-dealers to avoid possible disclosure that could be traced back to the customer.
However, because the proposed public aggregated institutional order handling report would not
disclose the specific orders and the historical data would reflect prior calendar quarters, the
Commission preliminarily believes that the potential risks and costs due to this would be small.

230

Proposed Rule 606(c) would require each broker-dealer to post the public aggregated
institutional order handling report for a period of three years from the initial date of posting on
the Internet Web site. As noted above, the Commission preliminarily believes that, once the
report is posted, maintaining the report on the Web site will not impose any additional burden on
broker-dealers, and thus any additional costs to maintain the report on the Web site would be
negligible.
The disclosure requirements of proposed Rule 606(c) would impose a cost, as they would
require some reprogramming by broker-dealers that handle institutional orders. In addition,
preparing and disseminating the data to the public in the form required by proposed Rule 606(c)
would impose costs on such broker-dealers. However, a broker-dealer could use the
infrastructure and processes they put in place for the customer-specific reports required by
proposed Rule 606(b)(3) such that the additional cost to comply with proposed Rule 606(c) may
be low. The Commission preliminarily estimates that a broker-dealer who handles institutional
orders and formats and creates public aggregated institutional order handling reports itself will
incur an initial burden of 20 hours resulting in a monetized cost burden of $4,990 to comply with
the quarterly reporting requirement of proposed Rule 606(c). 400 The Commission preliminarily
estimates that a broker-dealer who uses a third-party service provider to create the public
aggregated institutional order handling reports would incur an initial burden of 5 hours resulting
in a monetized cost burden of $1,415 plus an additional third-party service provider fee of
$2,500. 401 As noted above, the Commission preliminarily estimates that 135 broker-dealers who
route institutional orders will create the required reports themselves while 65 such broker-dealers
400

See supra note 261.

401

See supra notes 262 and 263.

231

will use a third-party service provider to create the required reports. Therefore, the total initial
burden for broker-dealers that route institutional orders to produce the quarterly report is
preliminarily estimated to be 3,025 hours resulting in a monetized cost burden of $765,625 plus
an additional $162,500 fee to compensate third-party service providers for producing the
reports. 402
Further, the Commission preliminarily estimates that each broker-dealer that routes
institutional orders who prepares its own reports will incur an average burden of 10 hours
resulting in a monetized cost burden of $1,600 403 to prepare, disseminate, and keep for a period
of three years a quarterly report required by proposed Rule 606(c), or a burden of 40 hours
resulting in a monetized cost burden of $6,400 per year.
The Commission preliminarily estimates that each broker-dealer that routes institutional
orders that uses a third-party service provider to prepare the reports required under proposed
Rule 606(c) will incur an average burden of 2 hours resulting in a monetized cost burden of $443
plus an additional third-party service provider fee of $500 404 to prepare and make publicly
available a quarterly report, or a burden of 8 hours resulting in a monetized cost burden of
$1,772 plus an additional third-party service provider fee of $2,000 per year. 405 As noted above,
the Commission preliminarily estimates that 135 broker-dealers who route institutional orders
will create the required reports themselves while 65 such broker-dealers will use a third-party
service provider to create the required reports. Therefore, the total burden per year for all
broker-dealers who route institutional orders to comply with the reporting requirement in
402

See supra note 264.

403

See supra note 266.

404

See supra notes 269 and 270.

405

See supra notes 271 and 272.

232

proposed Rule 606(c) is preliminarily estimated to be 5,920 hours resulting in a monetized cost
burden of $979,180 plus an additional third-party service provider fee of $130,000. 406
iii.

Request for Comment

The Commission requests comment on the Commission’s analysis of the costs and
benefits of the proposed amendments in Rule 606(c). In particular, the Commission solicits
comment on the following:
143.

Do commenters believe that the assumptions underlying the Commission’s
estimates for the costs of implementation and ongoing costs to comply with the
proposal are appropriate? Please provide data and analysis to support your view.

144.

Do commenters believe there are additional costs or benefits that could be
quantified or otherwise monetized? If so, please identify these costs and benefits.
Please explain and provide specific data and estimates.

145.

Do commenters believe there are any additional costs or benefits that may arise
from the proposal? Are there costs and benefits described that would likely not
result from the proposed amendments? Are there any unintended consequences
not discussed above that may result from the proposal?

146.

Do commenters believe that there are methods by which the Commission could
reduce the costs imposed by the proposal, while still achieving its stated goals?
Please explain in detail.
2.

Disclosures for Retail Orders

Rule 606(a) requires each broker-dealer to make publicly available quarterly reports on
its routing of non-directed orders in NMS securities. The Commission preliminarily believes
406

See supra notes 275 and 276.

233

that the proposed amendments to Rule 606(a) would increase the level of transparency about
order routing and execution quality for retail orders through the enhanced disclosure of data
regarding order routing and execution. The proposed amendments to Rule 606(a) require that
the public quarterly reports be broken down by calendar month and differentiate between
marketable and non-marketable limit orders. The proposed amendments also would remove the
requirement that the quarterly reports be divided into three separate sections for securities that
are listed on the NYSE, Nasdaq, and Amex. The proposed amendments to Rule 606(a)(1)(iii)
also require that the reports include for Specified Venues the net aggregate amount of any
payment for order flow, payment from any profit-sharing relationship received, transaction fees
paid, and transaction rebates received, both as a total dollar amount and on a per share basis, for
specified types of orders. The proposed amendment to Rule 606(a)(1)(iv) would add the
requirement that broker-dealers describe any terms of payment for order flow arrangements and
profit-sharing relationships with Specified Venues that may influence their order routing
decisions, including, among other things: (1) incentives for equaling or exceeding an agreed
upon order flow volume threshold, such as additional payments or a higher rate of payment; (2)
disincentives for failing to meet an agreed upon minimum order flow threshold, such as lower
payments or the requirement to pay a fee; (3) volume-based tiered payment schedules; and (4)
agreements regarding the minimum amount of order flow that the broker-dealer would send to a
venue. 407 In addition, the proposed amendments to Rule 606(a) would require broker-dealers to
keep their reports posted on an Internet Web site that is free and readily accessible to the public
for a period of three years from the initial date of posting on the Internet Web site, and would

407

See proposed Rule 606(a)(1)(iv).

234

require such reports to be made available using an XML schema and associated PDF renderer to
be published on the Commission’s Web site.
The benefits and costs of each of these proposed amendments are discussed below.
Wherever possible, we quantify cost estimates for a given amendment. For the remaining
amendments concerning retail orders, we provide total quantitative cost estimates for these
amendments in Section V.C.2.e.
a.

Marketable Limit Orders and Non-Marketable Limit Orders
i.

Benefits

The proposed amendments to Rule 606(a), which applies to retail orders, would require
broker-dealers to differentiate between marketable and non-marketable limit orders. Marketable
and non-marketable limit orders generally are handled differently, i.e., non-marketable limit
orders are typically posted to an order book, which may result in a different fee or rebate
compared to a marketable limit order that may be immediately executed and not posted to the
book.
The proposed amendments could allow the public, including customers placing retail
orders, to better understand the potential for conflicts of interest broker-dealers face when
routing retail orders. For example, if a broker-dealer routes all non-marketable limit orders to
the trading centers that pay the highest rebate for orders providing liquidity, the broker-dealer
may be maximizing its revenue potentially to the detriment of execution quality. Recent
academic research has identified indications of such routing behavior for retail orders. 408 On
examining the order routing of ten broker-dealers, the researchers find that four of the brokerdealers sell market orders to market makers and route limit orders to market makers or
408

See Battalio, Corwin, and Jennings Paper, supra note 57.

235

exchanges offering the largest liquidity rebates. In addition, their study indicates that a negative
relation exists between take fees and the likelihood that a limit order fills and the speed and
realized spread of the associated fill. 409 The disclosure of order routing data broken down by
marketable and non-marketable limit orders could incentivize broker-dealers to better manage
these and other potential conflicts of interest, which may result in improved order routing
decisions and execution quality for retail orders. The disclosure could also help customers and
others to assess if and how well broker-dealers manage the potential conflicts of interest they
face when routing retail orders, and would be a way for broker-dealers to show that they are
indeed managing these potential conflicts of interest.
In addition, if the additional proposed disclosure results in broker-dealers improving their
order routing for retail orders, which, in turn, may change which trading centers the brokerdealers route retail orders to, the proposed disclosure could further promote competition among
trading centers. The new information that would be in the public reports required by proposed
Rule 606(a)(1) would allow trading centers to compare the order routing decisions of brokerdealers and the trading centers retail orders are routed to, which could then inform how the
trading centers attempt to attract retail order flow. The quarterly public reports, which would be
broken down by month, would allow trading centers to see effects of any adjustments they
implement in response to broker-dealers changing their order routing strategies. In addition, this
proposed new disclosure may lead to innovation by existing trading centers and it may attract
new entrants and the formation of new trading centers. 410

409

See id.

410

In particular, a trading center that loses order flow to venues that offer better execution
quality would have the incentive to innovate to improve its execution quality. Therefore,
236

ii.

Costs

The proposed amendments to Rule 606(a) to require broker-dealers to differentiate
between marketable and non-marketable limit orders would impose costs on broker-dealers.
Preliminary estimates for compliance costs are contained in the estimates for the costs of
producing the reports discussed in Section V.C.2.e.
iii.

Request for Comment

The Commission requests comment on the Commission’s analysis of the costs and
benefits of the proposed amendments in Rule 606(a). In particular, the Commission solicits
comment on the following:
147.

Do commenters believe that the assumptions underlying the Commission’s
estimates for the costs of implementation and ongoing costs to comply with the
proposal are appropriate? Please provide data and analysis to support your view.

148.

Do commenters believe there are additional costs or benefits that could be
quantified or otherwise monetized? If so, please identify these costs and benefits.
Please explain and provide specific data and estimates.

149.

Do commenters believe there are any additional costs or benefits that may arise
from the proposal? Are there costs and benefits described that would likely not
result from the proposed amendments? Are there any unintended consequences
not discussed above that may result from the proposal?

because the proposed disclosures may encourage broker-dealers to route for better
execution quality, they may lead to innovation on trading centers.

237

150.

Do commenters believe that there are methods by which the Commission could
reduce the costs imposed by the proposal, while still achieving its stated goals?
Please explain in detail.
b.

Net Payment for Order Flow and Transaction Fees and
Rebates by Specified Venue
i.

Benefits

Under the proposed amendments to Rule 606(a)(1)(iii), for retail orders, broker-dealers
would be required to publicly report the net aggregate amount of any payment for order flow,
payment from any profit-sharing relationship received, the transaction fees paid, and transaction
rebates received, both as a total dollar amount and on a per share basis, for each of the following
order types: market orders, marketable limit orders, non-marketable limit orders, and other
orders.
Similarly to differentiating marketable and non-marketable limit orders discussed in
Section V.C.2.a.i, the information required by proposed Rule 606(a)(1)(iii) could also allow the
public, including customers placing retail orders, to better understand the potential conflicts of
interest broker-dealers face when routing retail orders. 411 The proposed disclosure of
information could provide additional incentives to broker-dealers to monitor the potential
conflicts of interest, and to review and alter how they route retail orders, which could result in
improved order routing decisions and execution quality for retail orders. The disclosure could
also help the public to assess better if and how well broker-dealers manage the potential conflicts
of interest they face when routing retail orders.

411

See supra Section II.C. for an example of routing decisions being affected by conflicts of
interest.

238

Under proposed Rule 606(a)(1)(iii), broker-dealers would be required to disclose on a
quarterly basis more detailed information on net payment for order flow, payment from any
profit-sharing relationship received, transaction fees paid, and transaction rebates received per
share and in total. Customers and the public could use this information to gauge whether
payments for order flow or maker-taker fees affect the order routing decisions of broker-dealers.
For example, if a customer pays a flat-rate commission to its broker-dealer, and any rebate
received, or any fraction thereof, is retained by the broker-dealer, then the broker-dealer may
have a financial incentive to route the retail order to the trading center offering the highest rebate
or lowest fee. 412 Brokerage commissions, which are known to the customer, may depend on the
rebates and take fees collected or paid by broker-dealers. 413 For example, broker-dealers that
collect more in rebates may pass this income on to customers by charging lower commissions.
However, routing solely to maximize rebates or minimize take fees may result in lower
execution quality than other routing strategies. Without the proposed disclosures customers
might take only brokerage commissions into account and might, therefore, suboptimally choose
the lowest commission broker-dealer, without considering other relevant costs. Such customers
could, in fact, end up paying higher net costs if the lower commission broker-dealers do not
obtain good execution quality for the retail orders. The information required by proposed Rule
606(a)(1)(iii), together with the proposed amendments to Rule 606(a) requiring differentiating of
marketable and non-marketable limit orders, would give customers additional information to
make decisions based on more than the brokerage commissions.

412

See, e.g., Battalio, Corwin, and Jennings Paper, supra note 57.

413

The Commission notes that it does not believe that fees and rebates are the only
determinants of brokerage commissions.

239

In addition, as discussed in Section V.C.2.a.i, if broker-dealers improve their order
routing for retail orders, which may result in changes to which trading centers they route retail
orders to, it could promote competition between trading centers. The trading centers could
gauge, like customers, whether payment for order flow or maker-taker fees affect the order
routing decision of broker-dealers. The trading centers may change their fees or attempt
otherwise to attract retail order flow and the quarterly public reports that are broken down by
calendar month would allow them to see effects of any changes they implement. In addition, this
may lead to innovation by existing trading centers and it may attract new entrants and the
formation of new trading centers.
ii.

Costs

Proposed Rule 606(a)(1)(iii) would impose initial costs on broker-dealers in creating a
new process to complete the reports and increase ongoing costs related to incorporating
additional information into the reports. Preliminary estimates for the compliance costs are
contained in the estimates for the costs of producing the reports discussed in Section V.C.2.e. It
is possible that increased transparency about the net aggregate amount of any payment for order
flow, payment from any profit-sharing relationship, transaction fees paid, and transaction rebates
received, and subsequent scrutiny by retail customers, the public, academics, regulators, and the
financial media, may lead broker-dealers to decrease the degree to which they internalize orders
and route orders to high rebate or low fee exchanges to avoid the perception of conflicts of
interest. Broker-dealers might do this if they perceive the potential costs from increased public
scrutiny that would result from the enhanced disclosures to be relatively high compared to the
benefit from sending retail orders to internalizers or routing retail orders to high rebate and low
fee trading centers. If this were to occur then these retail orders might be more likely to be

240

routed to trading centers other than internalizers, such as exchanges or alternative trading
systems, 414 regardless of potential execution quality differences such as relatively less price
improvement, or they might be more likely to be routed to other lower rebate or higher fee
venues, regardless of the potential execution quality differences. In addition, if broker-dealers
were to reduce the retail order flow sent to internalizers who pay for it, the broker-dealers would
receive less payment for retail order flow and might pass the lost payments onto their retail
customers by raising brokerage commissions or other fees. Similarly, if broker-dealers were to
route retail orders to trading centers with lower rebates and higher fees, they might pass the
reduction in rebate revenue and increase in fee costs on to their retail customers by raising
brokerage commissions or other fees.
It is possible that increased transparency about net payment for order flow and payments
from profit-sharing relationships, and subsequent scrutiny by retail customers, the public,
academics, regulators, and the financial media, might lead broker-dealers to alter their payment
for order flow or profit-sharing relationships or not enter such relationships. Broker-dealers
might do this if they perceive the potential costs from increased public scrutiny to be relatively
high compared to a broker-dealer’s benefit from such relationships. This could lead to lower
payments received from such relationships. The affected broker-dealers might offset these lower
revenues or higher costs by increasing brokerage commissions or other fees for retail customers.
iii.

Request for Comment

The Commission requests comment on the Commission’s analysis of the costs and
benefits of the proposed amendments in Rule 606(a)(1)(iii). In particular, the Commission
solicits comment on the following:
414

See supra note 3.

241

151.

Do commenters believe that the assumptions underlying the Commission’s
estimates for the costs of implementation and ongoing costs to comply with the
proposal are appropriate? Please provide data and analysis to support your view.

152.

Do commenters believe there are additional costs or benefits that could be
quantified or otherwise monetized? If so, please identify these costs and benefits.
Please explain and provide specific data and estimates.

153.

Do commenters believe there are any additional costs or benefits that may arise
from the proposal? Are there costs and benefits described that would likely not
result from the proposed amendments? Are there any unintended consequences
not discussed above that may result from the proposal?

154.

Do commenters believe that there are methods by which the Commission could
reduce the costs imposed by the proposal, while still achieving its stated goals?
Please explain in detail.
c.

Discussion of Arrangement Terms with a Specified Venue
i.

Benefits

As discussed in Section III.B.3., the proposed amendment to Rule 606(a)(1)(iv) would
require broker-dealers to describe in their quarterly public report any terms of payment for order
flow arrangements and profit-sharing relationships, whether written or oral, with a Specified
Venue that may influence their order routing decisions, including, among other things: (1)
incentives for equaling or exceeding an agreed upon order flow volume threshold, such as
additional payments or a higher rate of payment; (2) disincentives for failing to meet an agreed
upon minimum order flow threshold, such as lower payments or the requirement to pay a fee; (3)
volume-based tiered payment schedules; and (4) agreements regarding the minimum amount of

242

order flow that the broker-dealer would send to a venue. The Commission preliminarily believes
that the description provided by proposed Rule 606(a)(1)(iv) would help ensure consistent,
accurate, and comprehensive disclosure of terms of payment for order flow and profit-sharing
relationships that influence broker-dealer order routing decisions. This would make the public
reports required by amended Rule 606(a) more useful to customers and the public, and the
benefits of the description required by proposed Rule 606(a)(1)(iv) are similar to the benefits of
the disclosures of the net payment for order flow and transaction fees and rebates by Specified
Venue required by proposed Rule 606(a)(1)(iii) and discussed in Section V.C.2.b.i.
The disclosures required by proposed Rule 606(a)(1)(iv) could allow the public,
including customers placing retail orders, to better understand the potential conflicts of interest
broker-dealers face when routing retail orders. 415 Together with the proposed amendments to
Rule 606(a) concerning differentiating marketable and non-marketable limit orders and with
proposed Rule 606(a)(1)(iii), proposed Rule 606(a)(1)(iv) could give customers placing retail
orders useful information about potential conflicts of interest. The disclosures required by Rule
606(a)(1)(iv) would give customers access to information on the terms of payment for order flow
arrangements and profit-sharing relationships between broker-dealers and Specified Venues.
Customers could use that information to gauge whether those arrangements affect the order
routing decisions of broker-dealers. The proposed disclosures could incentivize broker-dealers
to monitor their potential conflicts of interest, and to review and alter how they route retail
orders, which could result in improved order routing decisions and execution quality for retail

415

See supra Section II.C. for an example of routing decisions being affected by conflicts of
interest.

243

orders. The disclosure could also help the public to assess if and how well broker-dealers
manage the potential conflicts of interest they face when routing retail orders.
In addition, as discussed in Section V.C.2.a.i, if broker-dealers improve their order
routing for retail orders, which may result in changes to which trading centers they route retail
orders to, it could promote competition between trading centers. The trading centers could
gauge, like customers, whether payment for order flow arrangements and profit-sharing
relationships between broker-dealers and Specified Venues affect the order routing decisions of
broker-dealers. The trading centers may change their payment for order flow arrangements and
profit-sharing relationships with broker-dealers or attempt otherwise to attract retail order flow
and the quarterly public reports that are broken down by calendar month would allow them to see
effects of any changes they implement. In addition, this may lead to innovation by existing
trading centers and it may attract new entrants and the formation of new trading centers.
ii.

Costs

Given that the proposed changes to Rule 606(a)(1)(iv) constitute an amendment to an
existing disclosure, the Commission preliminarily estimates the initial paperwork burden for a
broker-dealer that handles retail orders to review and assess its payment for order flow
arrangements and profit-sharing relationships, whether written or oral, with a Specified Venue
that may influence their order routing decisions, and describe terms of such arrangements to be
10 hours resulting in a monetized cost burden of $3,155. 416 With 266 broker-dealers that route
retail orders required to comply with the rule, the Commission preliminarily estimates the total
initial paperwork burden for complying with proposed Rule 606(a)(1)(iv) to be 2,660 hours

416

See supra note 318.

244

resulting in a cost of $839,230. 417 The Commission preliminarily estimates the annual
paperwork burden for a broker-dealer that handles retail orders to describe and update any terms
of payment for order flow arrangements and profit-sharing relationships, whether written or oral,
with a Specified Venue that may influence their order routing decisions to be 15 hours resulting
in a monetized cost burden of $3,500. 418 With 266 broker-dealers that route retail orders
required to comply with the rule, the Commission preliminarily estimates the total annual
paperwork burden for complying with proposed Rule 606(a)(1)(iv) to be 3,990 hours resulting in
a cost of $931,000. 419
Increased disclosure about payment for order flow arrangements and profit-sharing
relationships may lead broker-dealers to decrease the amount of internalization used in the
execution of market and marketable limit orders and to alter such arrangements and
relationships. Section V.C.2.b.ii. discusses this in detail and the associated costs and other
effects.
iii.

Request for Comment

The Commission requests comment on the Commission’s analysis of the costs and
benefits of the proposed amendments in Rule 606(a)(1)(iv). In particular, the Commission
solicits comment on the following:
155.

Do commenters believe that the assumptions underlying the Commission’s
estimates for the costs of implementation and ongoing costs to comply with the
proposal are appropriate? Please provide data and analysis to support your view.

417

See supra note 319.

418

See supra note 323.

419

See supra note 324.

245

156.

Do commenters believe there are additional costs or benefits that could be
quantified or otherwise monetized? If so, please identify these costs and benefits.
Please explain and provide specific data and estimates.

157.

Do commenters believe there are any additional costs or benefits that may arise
from the proposal? Are there costs and benefits described that would likely not
result from the proposed amendments? Are there any unintended not discussed
above consequences that may result from the proposal?

158.

Do commenters believe that there are methods by which the Commission could
reduce the costs imposed by the proposal, while still achieving its stated goals?
Please explain in detail.
d.

Additional Amendments to Retail Disclosures

In addition to the amendments discussed above, the Commission is proposing to amend
disclosures for retail orders by aggregating reports across listing exchanges, requiring quarterly
reports to be broken down by month, and providing reports in a specific format that are available
for a minimum length of time. The benefits and costs of these additional amendments are
discussed below.
i.

Aggregated Reporting
(a)

Benefits

The proposed amendment to Rule 606(a)(1) that requires reports on retail orders be
aggregated across all securities may reduce the ongoing costs of the Rule 606(a) reports. Current
Rule 606(a)(1) requires that NMS stocks be “divided into three separate sections for securities
that are listed on the New York Stock Exchange, Inc., securities that are qualified for inclusion in
The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc., and securities that are listed on the American Stock Exchange

246

LLC or any other national securities exchange.” To satisfy this requirement, broker-dealers have
to determine the primary listing of all NMS stocks and incur a cost on an ongoing basis in doing
so. Eliminating this requirement would save broker-dealers this cost. In addition, new brokerdealers currently have to create the initial report format for the three groups of NMS stocks,
which also imposes a one-time cost. 420 Under the proposed amendment, new broker-dealers
would not incur that cost.
(b)

Costs

The Commission’s proposal to aggregate reports on retail order routing across listing
exchanges would also impose costs, according to a staff analysis. 421 In particular, the staff
analysis indicates that the aggregation across listing exchanges would reduce the value of the 606
reports for monitoring execution quality from broker-dealers because it would make it harder for
retail customers to assess the execution quality provided by their broker-dealers. This section
describes the staff’s analysis.
The staff’s analysis focuses on whether customers or others can use the market-specific
routing information to assess the execution quality they get from their broker-dealers.
Specifically, if the order routing decisions by broker-dealers differ for stocks listed on different
exchanges, e.g., if broker-dealers route orders differently for NYSE-listed stocks compared to
NASDAQ-listed stocks, the proposed aggregated reports would not provide this information to

420

NYSE Arca, Inc. (“NYSE Arca”) and Bats BZX are also listing exchanges but only for
exchange traded funds not stocks.

421

In addition, this proposed amendment would impose an initial cost for broker-dealers
who currently capture the data required by the proposed modification to Rule 606(a) to
change the process for preparing the reports. These costs are reflected in the cost
estimates discussed in Section V.C.2.e.

247

customers and the public. 422 Such information can be useful for customers and the public as
long as order routing decisions determine execution quality and execution costs. Specifically,
Commission staff analyzed execution costs as measured by effective spreads from Rule 605
reports (“Rule 605 data”) for common stocks with different primary listing exchanges and on
different market centers to determine whether the cost of executing a market or a marketable
limit order for common stock varies across market centers and primary listing exchange. 423 The
staff’s analysis controls for stock and order characteristics. 424 Accordingly, the staff’s analysis
considers whether execution quality depends on primary listing exchanges, and specifically
which market centers provide better execution, as a means to assess whether the proposal might
reduce the usefulness of the reports. 425

422

The Commission notes that there are differences in order routing decisions depending on
primary listing exchange due to existing rules, regulations, and practices. For example,
the NYSE does not trade NASDAQ- or NYSE MKT-listed stocks. As a result, orders for
a NYSE-listed stock can be routed to the NYSE, NASDAQ, and other market centers,
whereas orders for NASDAQ-listed stocks can be routed to NASDAQ and other market
centers, but not to the NYSE. This level of information would be lost in aggregated
reports.

423

The Commission purchased the Rule 605 data from CoreOne Technologies, a provider of
financial data. The data used in this analysis spans the period from January 1, 2012
through December 31, 2014. The CRSP US Stock Database from Wharton Research
Data Services contains daily and monthly market and corporate action data for securities,
and is used to estimate control variables.

424

Specifically, the analysis consists of a regression that uses dollar volume, market
capitalization, and mean variance of daily returns to control for stock characteristics, and
order type and order size to control for order characteristics.

425

Similarly, if any of the information required to be disclosed by proposed Rules 606(a)(iii)
and (iv) differs for stocks with different listing exchanges, then the proposed aggregation
will reduce the information content of the reports, provided that information is valuable
to institutions as discussion in Section II.C. For example, it may be the case that payment
for order flow arrangements are different for stocks with different primary listing
exchanges or an exchange may implement different fees and rebates for stocks with a
different primary listing exchange.

248

While the staff’s analysis is not a direct test of whether order routing differs for stocks
with different primary listing exchanges, 426 it does directly measure one important factor in
whether such routing information would be useful – differences in execution costs. Information
on both execution costs and routing allows customers (or someone acting on behalf of
customers) to assess the extent to which their broker-dealer routes customer orders to the market
centers with the lowest execution costs. If the execution cost measures show that listing
exchange matters for which market centers offer better execution quality, then aggregating the
routing information across listing exchanges could reduce the ability for customers to assess one
of the components of best execution. Hence, the staff’s analysis provides some indication of
whether aggregated reporting, as required by the proposed amendment, would deprive customers
and the public of useful information regarding the impact of routing decisions.

426

Commission staff was unable to obtain historical quarterly reports for retail orders
required by current Rule 606(a). Therefore, the Commission staff did not analyze current
606 reports to see if routing differs by listing exchange of the stock.

249

Table 1. Association between trading center and mean effective spread for common stocks by listing exchange.
Mean Effective Spread (basis points)
(1)
(2)
(3)
NYSE-listed
NASDAQ-listed
NYSE MKTlisted
18.02 ***
92.01 ***
177.29 ***
Intercept
(227.48)
(412.45)
(122.39)
-4.12 ***
-35.78 ***
-37.58 ***
BATS BYX
(-48.43)
(-141.56)
(-20.35)
-7.04 ***
-40.70 ***
-50.60 ***
BATS BZX
(-77.28)
(-161.74)
(-31.87)
-1.31 ***
-29.21 ***
-34.06 ***
BX
(-14.26)
(-107.52)
(-19.01)
1.12 ***
-17.02 ***
14.94 ***
CBSX
(8.76)
(-41.94)
(4.70)
-2.27 ***
-37.72 ***
-21.04 ***
CHX
(-10.93)
(-43.53)
(-2.90)
-4.69 ***
-35.49 ***
-41.53 ***
EDGA
(-55.75)
(-131.77)
(-25.03)
-4.28 ***
-27.64 ***
-29.09 ***
EDGX
(-48.53)
(-96.80)
(-15.71)
1.63 ***
---3.98 **
NASDAQ
(17.33)
(2.53)
-2.85 ***
-37.17 ***
-41.72 ***
NSX
(-28.76)
(-118.44)
(-22.17)
-5.75 ***
-36.71 ***
-48.49 ***
NYSE ARCA
(-70.19)
(-152.46)
(-30.82)
----57.02 ***
---NYSE MKT
(-113.92)
-3.08 ***
-31.85 ***
-34.54 ***
Off Exchange
(-43.57)
(-168.35)
(-26.76)
-3.10 ***
-57.54 ***
-81.01 ***
PSX
(-39.77)
(-256.34)
(-54.98)
-0.004
2.90 ***
-10.83 ***
Marketable limit order
(-.11)
(28.78)
(-15.95)
0.67 ***
-2.32 ***
-1.23 *
500-1,999 shares
(15.32)
(-21.67)
(-1.87)
2.22 ***
-3.31 ***
1.87 **
2,000-4,999 shares
(44.37)
(-26.89)
(2.37)
3.41 ***
-4.23 ***
2.98 ***
≥ 5,000 shares
(61.79)
(-28.66)
(3.12)
-2.86E-08 ***
2.21E-09 ***
-3.04E-08
Dollar volume
(-178.5)
(11.38)
(-1.49)
8.03E-12 ***
-3.65E-10 ***
-1.96E-08 ***
Market capitalization
(12.49)
(-121.35)
(-57.69)
334.54 ***
438.14 ***
877.18 ***
Variance of daily return
(21.14)
(11.66)
(11.53)
H0: All exchange dummies = 0
17,580 ***
75,339 ***
6,346 ***
Chi-square
H0: EDGX = Bats BYX
4.13 **
806.78 ***
18.70 ***
Chi-square
9,792,105
10,764,324
688,305
Observations
1.02%
1.18%
1.98%
Adjusted R2
Yes
Yes
Yes
Year fixed effects
Note: Data are SEC Rule 605 data purchased from CoreOne Technologies and CRSP, and include years 2012-2014. The mean
effective spread is equally-weighted by stock. The variable categories that are dropped are: One trading center, market orders (for
the regressions involving mean effective spreads), inside-the-quote limit orders (for regressions involving mean realized spreads),
order size from 100-499 shares, and the 2012 calendar year. The Chi-square test is used to test the null hypothesis that all of the
exchange coefficients, with the exception of the intercept coefficient, are jointly zero. The null hypothesis would imply that all
exchanges would not be associated with a mean effective spread different from that associated with NYSE-listed stock orders
executed at NYSE. T-statistics estimated from White standard errors are in parentheses. * indicates significance of a 2-tailed test at
the 10% level; ** at the 5% level; *** at the 1% level.

250

Table 1 presents the results of the staff’s analysis of effective spreads for common stocks
listed on the NYSE, NASDAQ, and NYSE MKT. Columns 1 through 3 report the results for
each of these primary listing exchanges. 427 The market center rows in the table report the basis
point difference between the average effective spreads on that market center and the average
effective spreads on the primary listing exchange. In tests of whether effective spreads of each
market center are the same as the listing exchange, the rows with stars indicate that the market
center effective spreads are statistically significantly different, with more stars indicating
stronger confidence in the significance. For illustration, the intercept in Column 1 indicates that
the average effective spread for market orders for NYSE-listed stocks that are executed on the
NYSE is 18.02 basis points and the -4.12 estimate for Bats BYX Exchange, Inc. (“Bats BYX”)
indicates that the effective spreads for NYSE-listed stocks on Bats BYX are 4.12 basis points
lower after controlling for differences due to stock and order characteristics. 428
Table 1 indicates that the average effective spreads vary significantly by the market
center where the orders were executed. Table 1 shows that most market center effective spreads
are significantly different than those of the listing exchange. For example, Column 1 shows that,
for NYSE-listed stocks, the average effective spread on Bats BZX is 7.04 basis points less than
on the NYSE itself, and the average effective spread on NASDAQ is 1.63 basis points higher
427

The Rule 605 data and, thus, this analysis weight the effective spread statistics equally by
stock. Therefore, these effective spreads appear larger than if they were weighted by
dollar volume or by share volume.

428

For perspective, a one penny effective spread on a $40 stock is 2.5 basis points. A 2.5
basis point cost on a 100 share trade in a $40 stock would be $1.00. An ordinary least
squares estimate is consistent when the explanatory variables are exogenous, perfect
multicollinearity does not exist, and optimal in the class of linear unbiased estimators
when the errors are homoscedastic and serially uncorrelated. Under these assumptions,
the method of ordinary least squares provides minimum-variance mean-unbiased
estimates when the errors have finite variances. If any one or more of these assumptions
does not hold then the estimate may not be the best linear unbiased estimator.

251

than on the NYSE. In addition, some differences in effective spreads are also economically
meaningful. For example, Column 2 reports that the average effective spread for orders in
NASDAQ-listed stocks that are executed on NASDAQ is 92.01 basis points and the average
effective spread for such orders that are executed on NYSE Arca is 36.71 basis points lower,
which corresponds to a 55.3 basis point difference and represents a reduction of almost 40%. 429
Differences of such magnitude may be important to broker-dealers when making order routing
decisions and to customers in monitoring the execution quality their broker-dealers provide as
measured by the current Rule 605 reports.
Table 1 also indicates that the average effective spreads vary significantly by listing
exchange. The staff’s analysis suggests that NASDAQ-listed stocks tend to have higher average
effective spreads than NYSE-listed stocks because the intercept estimates are much larger in
Column 2 compared to Column 1. 430 Table 1 also shows that NYSE MKT-listed stocks tend to
have even higher average effective spreads than NASDAQ-listed stocks by comparing the results
in Column 3 with those in Column 2. The Commission notes that neither this result alone nor
this result in conjunction with the results in the previous paragraph directly measure whether the
proposed amendment would reduce the usefulness of the Rule 606 routing information.
However, a deeper analysis of Table 1 can inform on these costs. Specifically, the results
in the table suggest that because the relative ranking of each market center changes depending on
429

36.71 / 92.01 = 39.9%.

430

The Commission recognizes that the staff analysis did not control for stock and order
characteristic differences across the columns and the staff did not estimate a matchedsample comparison. These other analysis types would facilitate a more fulsome
comparison of effective spreads in similar stocks by listing exchange than the staff’s
analysis in Table 1. However, because the 606 reports do not distinguish individual
stocks, the Commission preliminarily believes that the staff analysis is appropriate for
assessing the costs of the proposed amendments.

252

the listing exchange, the proposed amendment to aggregate routing information across listing
exchanges could reduce the usefulness of Rule 606 reports. Commission staff compared the
effective spreads across the various market centers for stocks listed on each of the primary listing
exchanges, as indicated by Table 1.
If the ranking of the effective spreads on each market center were the same across the
three primary listing exchanges, where a stock is listed would have little or no relationship to
whether order routing information informs on execution quality. Such a result would imply that
aggregating the reports across primary listing exchanges would not reduce the amount of
information in the reports. However, upon examination, Table 1 shows that the ranking of the
market centers by effective spreads is different depending on the primary listing exchange. For
example, the coefficient estimates in Table 1 suggest that for NYSE-listed stocks, Bats EDGX
Exchange, Inc. (“EDGX”) has lower execution costs than Bats BYX, but for NASDAQ-listed
stocks, EDGX has higher execution costs than Bats BYX. In Column 1 for NYSE-listed stocks,
the differential cost of trading a stock on EDGX versus Bats BYX is small, 0.17 basis points,
but statistically significant. However, in Column 2 for NASDAQ-listed stocks, the stocks differ
in cost by a statistically significant 8.14 basis points between the same two exchanges. This
indicates that there seem to be differences between market centers in terms of effective spreads
for stocks with different primary listings that, together with routing information by listing
exchange, may inform customers in assessing the execution quality their broker-dealers provide.
Therefore, the staff’s analysis indicates that aggregating the reports, as in the proposed
amendment, could result in an informational cost to customers and the public.
As noted above in Section III.B.4., while the Commission recognizes that eliminating the
division of reports by the three distinct listing markets may potentially cause some reduction in

253

informational content, as indicated in the analysis above, the Commission preliminarily believes
that any diminution in granular listing market data is appropriate in light of the proposed
requirement to provide retail customers with pertinent order routing data that reflects today’s
multiple trading centers and practices. The Commission solicits comment on the foregoing.
ii.

Other Proposed Amendments to Reporting

The Commission is also proposing to require that the quarterly public retail order routing
reports required by Rule 606(a)(1) be broken down by calendar month. Current Rule 606(a)(1)
requires broker-dealers to make retail order routing reports publicly available for each calendar
quarter, and such reports contain aggregate quarterly information on the routing of retail orders.
As noted above, the Commission understands that trading centers frequently change their fee
structures, including the amount of fees and rebates, in order to attract order flow, and these
changes typically occur at the beginning of a calendar month. The changes in fee structures at
trading centers likely will affect a broker-dealer’s routing decisions. Disclosing retail order
routing information on an aggregated quarterly basis can mask changes in routing behavior in
response to changes in a trading center’s fee structure. The Commission preliminarily believes
that disclosing the information contained in the public retail routing reports by calendar month
would allow customers to better assess whether their broker-dealers’ routing decisions are
affected by changes in fee structures and the extent to which such changes affect execution
quality. This proposed amendment would, however, require an initial cost to change the process
for completing the reports. The Commission preliminarily believes this cost to be small because
broker-dealers typically process data daily and reporting the data broken down by month would
only be a change in the aggregation of the data, from quarterly to monthly.

254

In addition, the Commission is proposing that the public retail order routing report
required by Rule 606(a)(1) and customer-specific order routing report required by Rule 606(b)(1)
be made available using an XML schema and associated PDF renderer to be published on the
Commission’s website. The benefits and costs associated with this requirement are discussed in
Section V.C.4. The Commission preliminarily believes that requiring both the public and
customer-specific retail order routing reports to be provided in this format should be useful to
customers as it would allow them to more easily analyze and compare the data provided in both
types of reports across broker-dealers, for the reasons discussed above. 431 The proposed
amendments to Rule 606(a)(1) and Rule 606(b)(1) would require an initial cost to change the
process for completing the reports. 432 The benefits and costs associated with this requirement
are discussed in further detail in Section V.C.4.
Finally, the Commission is proposing to amend Rules 605(a)(2) and 606(a)(1) to require
market centers and broker-dealers to keep the reports posted on an Internet Web site that is free
of charge and readily accessible to the public for a period of three years. Requiring that data be
available to customers and the public for three years could be useful to those seeking to analyze
past execution quality by market center and routing behavior of broker-dealers. Such analysis
may lead to increased transparency with regards to execution quality and may lead brokerdealers to compete along this dimension through routing decisions, resulting in a higher
probability of execution and improved execution in terms of costs. Current Rules 605 and 606
do not specify the minimum length of time that market centers need to publish the order
execution reports and broker-dealers need to publish the retail order routing reports, respectively.
431

See supra Section III.A.3.

432

The benefits and costs associated with this requirement more generally are discussed in
Section V.C.4.

255

As a result, the public may not be able to examine the order execution of a market center and the
routing of retail orders by a broker-dealer through time if past reports are not currently available
or they have to rely on third-party vendors to supply past reports.
The requirement to make the reports available for three years may also produce costs. As
noted above, however, the Commission preliminarily believes that, once the report is posted,
maintaining the reports on the Web site will not pose any additional burden on broker-dealers,
and thus any additional costs to maintain the report on the Web site would be negligible. Any
costs of maintaining the report are included in the Commission’s estimates of the costs brokerdealers will incur to produce the reports, as explained above. 433 In addition, third-party vendors
that aggregate the time series of 605 and 606 reports may find that their data is less useful,
particularly for the three years that the reports are publicly available.
iii.

Request for Comment

The Commission requests comment on the Commission’s analysis of the costs and
benefits of the proposed amendments in Rule 605(a)(2), 606(a)(1) and 606(b)(1). In particular,
the Commission solicits comment on the following:
159.

Do commenters believe that the assumptions underlying the Commission’s
estimates for the costs of implementation and ongoing costs to comply with the
proposal are appropriate? Please provide data and analysis to support your view.

160.

Do commenters believe there are additional costs or benefits that could be
quantified or otherwise monetized? If so, please identify these costs and benefits.
Please explain and provide specific data and estimates.

433

See infra Section V.C.1.c.ii.

256

161.

Do commenters believe there are any additional costs or benefits that may arise
from the proposal? Are there costs and benefits described that would likely not
result from the proposed amendments? Are there any unintended consequences
that may result from the proposal?

162.

Do commenters believe that there are methods by which the Commission could
reduce the costs imposed by the proposal, while still achieving its stated goals?
Please explain in detail.
e.

Compliance Costs for Retail Order Routing Reports

As discussed in more detail in Section IV.D.4., the Commission preliminarily estimates
the costs to comply with the proposed amendments to Rule 606(a) that require broker-dealers to
distinguish between marketable and non-marketable limit orders and with proposed Rule
606(a)(1)(iii) that requires disclosure of net payment for order flow and transaction fees and
rebates by Specified Venue as follows. The Commission preliminarily estimates that most of the
266 broker-dealers that route retail orders already obtain the information required by the
proposed rule and that 50 broker-dealers do not currently obtain such information. The
Commission preliminarily estimates that the initial burden for a broker-dealer who routes retail
orders to update its systems to capture the information required by proposed Rule 606(a) and
format that information into a report to comply with the rule will be 80 hours resulting in a cost
of $22,648. 434 The Commission preliminarily estimates that 25 broker-dealers whose systems do
not currently capture all of the information required by proposed Rule 606(a) will engage a thirdparty service provider to perform the necessary upgrades. The Commission preliminarily
estimates that the initial burden for a broker-dealer that routes retail orders to engage a third434

See supra note 299.

257

party to perform the necessary system updates to comply with proposed Rule 606(a) will be 20
hours resulting in a monetized cost burden of $5,985 plus an additional third-party service
provider fee of $10,000. 435 Therefore, the Commission preliminarily estimates the total initial
burden for all 50 broker-dealers who need to update their systems and create a new report to be
2,500 hours resulting in a monetized cost burden of $715,825 plus an additional $250,000 fee to
the third-party service providers. 436
For the remaining 216 broker-dealers who the Commission preliminarily estimates
currently capture the data required by the proposed modifications to Rule 606(a), such brokerdealers would need only to format their reports to incorporate such data. The Commission
preliminarily estimates for broker-dealers that already capture such data, 108 would format the
reports in-house. The cost to format that data into its existing reports in-house is preliminarily
estimated to be 20 hours resulting in a monetized cost burden of $4,975. 437 The Commission
preliminarily estimates that 108 broker-dealers currently engage a third-party service provider to
provide reports pursuant to existing Rule 606(a) and such broker-dealers would continue to use
third-party service providers to format reports to comply with proposed Rule 606(a). The
Commission preliminarily estimates the initial burden for a broker-dealer who engages a thirdparty service provider to format reports to comply with proposed Rule 606(a) would be 8 hours
resulting in a monetized cost burden of $2,555 plus an additional fee of $2,000. 438 As such, the
Commission preliminarily estimates that the total cost for the 216 broker-dealers who the
Commission preliminarily estimates currently capture the data required by proposed Rule 606(a)
435

See supra notes 301 and 302.

436

See supra notes 304 and 305.

437

See supra note 306.

438

See supra notes 308 and 309.

258

to format their reports to incorporate such data to be 3,024 hours resulting in a monetized cost
burden of $813,240 plus an additional $216,000 third-party service provider fee. 439 Therefore,
the Commission preliminarily estimates that the total initial burden to comply with Rule 606(a)
for all 266 broker-dealers which the Commission preliminarily estimates route retail orders is
5,524 hours resulting in a monetized cost burden of $1,529,065 plus an additional fee of
$466,000 to third-party service providers. 440
The Commission preliminarily believes that once the initial costs, described above, have
been incurred to allow a broker-dealer to obtain the required information, the cost to produce a
quarterly report would remain the same compared to a quarterly report required under current
Rule 606(a). 441 However, broker-dealers would need to monitor payment for order flow or
profit-sharing relationships and potential SRO rule changes that could impact their order routing
decisions and incorporate any new information into their reports. Thus, the Commission
preliminarily estimates the annual burden for a broker-dealer to comply with the proposed
amendments to Rule 606(a)(1)(i)-(iii) to be 10 hours resulting in a monetized cost burden of
$3,155. 442 With 266 broker-dealers that route retail orders required to comply with the proposed
amendments, the Commission preliminarily estimates the total annual burden to be 2,660 hours
resulting in a monetized cost burden of $839,230. 443

439

See supra notes 312 and 313.

440

See supra notes 314 and 315.

441

See supra Section IV.D.4.b.

442

See supra note 321.

443

See supra note 322.

259

i.

Request for Comment

The Commission requests comment on the Commission’s discussion of implementation
considerations of the proposed amendments in Rules 606(a)(1) and 606(b)(1). In particular, the
Commission solicits comment on the following:
163.

Do commenters agree with the Commission’s estimates of the costs to comply
with the proposed amendments in Rules 606(a)(1) and 606(b)(1) for retail orders?
Specifically, do commenters agree with the Commission’s estimates for initial
costs and for ongoing costs? Please be specific in your response and provide data
to support your response.
3.

Disclosure of Order Execution Information

The proposed amendment to Rule 605(a)(2) requires market centers to keep reports
required pursuant to Rule 605(a)(1) posted on an Internet Web site that is free of charge and
readily accessible to the public for a period of three years from the initial date of posting on the
Internet Web site.
a.

Benefits

Similar to the analogous requirements proposed in Rules 606(a) and 606(c) described
above, the Commission preliminarily believes that requiring the previous three years of past
order execution information to be available to customers and the public generally should be
useful to those seeking to analyze historical order execution information at various market
centers. Currently, customers and the public who want to analyze historical order execution
information have to either download the data every quarter or they have to rely on third-party
vendors to get access to such data. The proposed requirement to make the data readily accessible
to the public for three years would allow customers and the public to access and analyze

260

historical order execution information more easily by requiring that historical data are kept
posted by the market centers. The public includes other market participants. For example, the
proposed requirement to make the data readily accessible to the public for three years would
benefit broker-dealers, market centers, and third-party vendors in that it would allow them to
access and analyze historical order execution information more easily. This would allow brokerdealers to compare different market centers more easily, market centers to compare themselves
to other market centers more easily, and third-party vendors to provide their services based on
the data more easily.
b.

Costs

The Commission preliminarily believes that the costs to market centers for making the
order execution reports readily accessible to the public for a period of three years from the date
of initial publication are negligible as it amounts to posting the currently-required reports for the
three-year time period. In addition, some market centers may already make their reports
available to the public for an extended period of time. The requirement to post and maintain
reports on an Internet Web site that is free of charge and readily accessible to the public for a
period of three years would begin at the adoption of the proposed amendments to Rule 605(a)(2)
and apply going forward. Affected entities (the market centers) would not be required to post
reports created and posted prior to the proposed Rule’s effectiveness.
The Commission notes that specifying a minimum length of time for making the Rule
605 reports available may make the data owned by third-party vendors aggregating the time
series of 605 reports less useful because, for three years, the data would be publicly available and
more easily accessible.

261

c.

Request for Comment

The Commission requests comment on the Commission’s analysis of the costs and
benefits of the proposed amendments in Rule 605(a)(2). In particular, the Commission solicits
comment on the following:
164.

Do commenters believe that there are benefits to making order execution reports
readily available for three years? If so, please explain.

165.

Do commenters agree with the Commission’s analysis that the costs are
negligible? Why or why not?
4.

Structured Format of Reports

The Commission is proposing to require that the retail order routing and institutional
order handling reports be made available using the Commission’s XML schema and associated
PDF renderer. As discussed earlier, the Commission preliminarily believes that requiring the
reports to be made available in an XML format will facilitate enhanced search capabilities, and
statistical and comparative analyses across broker-dealers and date ranges. 444 In addition, the
associated PDF renderer would provide users with an instantly human-readable format for those
who prefer to review manually individual reports, while still providing a uniform presentation.
The Commission understands that there are varying costs associated with varying degrees
of structuring. Most, if not all, broker-dealers already have experience applying the XML format
to their data. For example, all FINRA members must use FINRA’s Web EFT system, which
requires that all data be submitted in XML. 445 For the end users, with the data in the reports
structured in XML, they could immediately download the information directly into databases and
444

See supra Section III.A.3.

445

See http://www.finra.org/industry/web-crd/web-eft-schema-documentation-and-schemafiles.

262

analyze it using various software. This would enhance their ability to conduct large-scale
analysis and immediate comparison of broker-dealers, and across date ranges. Moreover, as an
open standard, XML is widely available to the public at no cost.
The Commission also preliminarily believes that if the reports are provided in a
structured format, users could avoid costs associated with third-party sources who might
otherwise extract and structure the data, and then charge for access to that structured data. Users
could also avoid the additional time it would take for them to manually review and individually
structure the data if they wanted to conduct large-scale analysis, comparison, or aggregation.
The XML schema would also incorporate certain validations to help ensure consistent
formatting among all reports, in other words, to help ensure data quality. Validations are
restrictions placed on the formatting for each data element so that comparable data is presented
comparably. However, these validations would not be designed to ensure the underlying
accuracy of the data. Any reports made available by broker-dealers pursuant to the proposal
would have to comply with validations that are incorporated within the XML schema, otherwise
the reports would not be considered to have been made available using the most recent version of
the Commission’s XML schema.
XML is an open standard that is maintained by an organization other than the
Commission and undergoes constant review. As updates to XML or industry practice develop,
the Commission’s XML schema may also have to be updated to reflect the updates in
technology. In those cases, the supported version of the XML schema would be made available
on the Commission’s Web site and the outdated version of the schema would be removed in
order to maintain data quality and consistency with the standard.

263

The Commission considered alternative formats to XML, such as comma-separated
values (“CSV”) and XBRL. The Commission does not believe the CSV format is suitable
because it does not lend itself to validations. As a result, the data quality of the reports would
likely be diminished as compared to XML, impairing comparability, aggregation, and large-scale
analysis. While the XBRL format enables users to capture the rich complexity of financial
information presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles,
XBRL is not necessary to accurately capture the information for the proposed reports. The
Commission preliminarily believes the simpler characteristics of the information in the required
reports are better suited for XML.
a.

Request for Comment

The Commission requests comment on the Commission’s analysis of the proposed
structured format for the proposed reports. In particular, the Commission solicits comment on
the following:
166.

Should the Commission require a structured format other than XML? If so,
please identify the other format; identify how the other format could be used for
aggregation, comparison, and large-scale analysis; and identify how the
Commission can similarly ensure data quality.

167.

As proposed, the public reports will be made available on each broker-dealers’
website. Are there any benefits to the public or to broker-dealers if the reports
were also submitted to the Commission’s EDGAR system? If so, please identify
those benefits and any associated costs.

168.

How and in what format do broker-dealers currently provide their reports for
retail orders required by Rule 606(a)(2)?

264

169.

Broker-dealers currently provide reports about order routing and execution quality
to institutional customers upon request on a voluntary basis. How and in what
format do broker-dealers currently provide those ad-hoc reports?

170.

Market centers publish current Rule 605(a) reports in a pipe-delimited ASCII
format. Should the Commission require a different structured format for the
reports required by Rule 605(a)? Why or why not? If yes, should the
Commission require that the reports required by Rule 605(a) be made available
using an XML schema and associated PDF renderer published on the
Commission’s Web site? Why or why not? Please be specific in your response.
If commenters believe another format would be more appropriate, please identify
the other format and identify how the other format can also be used for
aggregation, comparison, and large-scale analysis; and identify how the
Commission can similarly ensure data quality. Please identify any benefits and
associated costs.
5.

Other Definitions in Proposed Amendments to Rule 600
a.

Definition of Non-Marketable Limit Order in Proposed Rule
600(b)(51)

Proposed Rule 600(b)(51) defines a non-marketable limit order to mean any limit order
other than a marketable limit order. The Commission preliminarily believes that proposed Rule
600(b)(51) would ensure consistent and correct interpretation and application of the proposed
amendments to Rule 606(a)(1) for retail orders. The Commission also preliminarily believes that
there are no costs associated with proposed Rule 600(b)(51) because it is a definition that is
widely used by market participants.

265

b.

Definitions of “Orders Providing Liquidity” and “Orders
Removing Liquidity” in Proposed Rule 600(b)(55) and (56)

Proposed Rule 600(b)(55) defines “orders providing liquidity” to mean orders that were
executed against after resting at a trading center. Proposed Rule 600(b)(56) defines “orders
removing liquidity” to mean orders that were executed against resting trading interest at a trading
center. The Commission preliminarily believes that proposed Rules 600(b)(55) and (56) would
ensure consistent and correct interpretation and application of proposed Rule 606(b)(3) for
institutional orders. The Commission also preliminarily believes that there are no costs
associated with proposed Rules 600(b)(55) and (56) because the Commission understands that
the two definitions are widely used by market participants.
c.

Request for Comment

The Commission requests comment on the Commission’s analysis of the proposed
definitions. In particular, the Commission solicits comment on the following:
171.

Do commenters agree with the definitions? If not, please provide alternative
definitions and describe the benefits and costs of those alternatives as compared to
the proposed definitions. Please be specific.

172.

Do commenters agree with benefits and costs of the proposed definitions as
described by the Commission? Please be specific.

173.

Do commenters believe that the proposed definitions are widely used and
accepted by market participants? Please be specific.

266

D.

Alternatives Considered
1.

Definition of Institutional Order in Proposed Rule 606(b)(31)

The Commission considered one alternative to the proposed definition of institutional
order in Rule 600(b)(31) that would specify different thresholds for NMS stocks based on trading
volume. This alternative would more finely tailor the definition for different types of NMS
stocks, as described in Section V.C.1.a.ii. However, this alternative approach would add
complexity to the proposed definition, and analysis of data on orders from institutions does not
indicate any natural breakpoints. 446 The absence of natural breakpoints makes it more difficult
to draw definitive conclusions about what thresholds, if any, would be appropriate in a
definition.
In addition to the concern that the threshold of a market value of at least $200,000 may
not capture large (measured by shares) orders in illiquid NMS stocks, Section V.C.1.a.ii. also
discusses the incentives that market participants may have to change their behavior as stock
prices may change over time, which may affect the proportion of orders that fall under the
proposed definition of institutional order.
The Commission considered another alternative to the definition in proposed Rule
600(b)(31) that would address both concerns. The alternative would be to have customers
identify their orders as institutional orders subject to Rule 606. This alternative approach would
address the issue of having the same thresholds for all NMS stocks, independent of the trading
volume of the stocks. Since this approach would require each customer to identify institutional
orders, there would be a risk that customers may apply different criteria in identifying

446

See Section V.C.1.a.ii. for a discussion of Commission staff analysis of a set of orders
from institutional customers.

267

institutional orders. To the extent broker-dealers receive institutional orders that take different
approaches, the usefulness of the reports for the purpose of comparing broker-dealers would be
lower than with a consistently applied definition. However, the Commission notes that the
alternative of allowing institutions to identify their orders as institutional orders would not
reduce the usefulness of the information if the public reports contained specified thresholds as in
the proposal. This alternative may not be significantly more costly for broker-dealers to
implement than the proposal. After identifying the orders to be included in the calculations, all
calculations would be the same for the alternative as for the proposal. On the other hand, if the
alternative requires a specified threshold for disclosure on public reports, the public reports
would require separate processing because they would involve calculations on different
underlying orders. In this case, the alternative would be more costly than the proposal.
2.

Limited or No Public Disclosure of Institutional Order Routing and

Execution Quality (Proposed Rule 606(c))
The Commission considered requiring broker-dealers to make publicly available only a
subset of the information on institutional order handling required by proposed Rule 606(c). For
instance, order routing and execution could be disclosed, but not information on orders providing
liquidity or orders removing liquidity. Although this alternative would enhance the quality of the
disclosure provided by broker-dealers relative to the disclosure under current Rule 606, which
does not apply to institutional orders, it would shed less light on how order routing affects
execution quality and, thus, provide less information on the potential for conflicts of interest
relative to proposed Rule 606(c). As such, the benefits that would be achieved by this alternative
are smaller relative to the benefits proposed Rule 606(c) would offer. Additionally, the
Commission preliminarily believes that the costs to broker-dealers of this alternative would only

268

be marginally less expensive in than proposed Rule 606(c), because a process would still be
required to create the report.
The Commission also considered not requiring broker-dealers to make publicly available
any of the information required by proposed Rule 606(c) (but still proposing to require disclosure
pursuant to the amendments to Rule 606(b)(3) regarding customer requests for institutional order
handling information). As for limited public disclosure just discussed, this alternative would
improve the quality of the disclosure provided by broker-dealers relative to the disclosure under
current Rule 606, but it would shed even less light on how order routing affects execution quality
and thus provide even less information on the potential for conflicts of interest relative to
proposed Rule 606(c). As such, the benefits that would be achieved by this alternative would not
only be smaller relative to the benefits proposed Rule 606(c) would offer, but also smaller
relative to the benefits of the alternative of limited public disclosure. The alternative of no
public disclosure would result in cost savings compared to proposed Rule 606(c) because the
process to create the public report would not be required under this alternative.
3.

More Frequent Public Disclosure of Institutional Order Routing and

Execution Information (Proposed Rule 606(c))
The Commission considered requiring broker-dealers to make the aggregated public
disclosure of their institutional order routing and execution information available on a more
frequent basis than in proposed Rule 606(c) (i.e., monthly rather than quarterly). This alternative
would increase the frequency of order routing and execution disclosure, but at an additional cost
to broker-dealers relative to proposed Rule 606(c). Specifically, additional costs would accrue
from creating and disseminating the reports more frequently than quarterly. Monthly public

269

reports as compared to quarterly public reports would result in having to run the production
process to create and disseminate the reports twelve rather than four times per year.
The Commission preliminarily estimates that each broker-dealer that routes institutional
orders will incur an average burden of 10 hours resulting in a cost of $1,600 447 to prepare and
disseminate a quarterly report required by proposed Rule 606(c). 448 The Commission
preliminarily believes that the costs for a monthly report would be similar to the costs of a
quarterly report. Hence, the Commission preliminarily estimates that each broker-dealer that
routes institutional orders would incur an average burden of 120 hours resulting in a cost of
$19,200 per year to prepare and disseminate monthly reports. This compares to a burden of 40
hours resulting in a cost of $6,400 per year for quarterly reports as required by proposed Rule
606(c), that is, the costs for each broker-dealer that routes institutional orders would be three
times higher. The Commission preliminarily estimates the costs to produce a report would
remain the same each month, as the cost of the report is more related to the act of producing the
report, as opposed to how much data the report contains (one month vs. three months). The
difference in costs for each broker-dealer to provide monthly reports as compared to quarterly
reports as required by proposed Rule 606(c) is preliminarily estimated to be $12,800 per year. 449
With an estimated 200 broker-dealers that route institutional orders, the total additional burden
per year to comply with a monthly reporting requirement as compared to a quarterly reporting

447

See supra note 266.

448

See supra Section IV.D.2.d.

449

$19,200 annually per broker-dealer for monthly reports - $6,400 annually per brokerdealer for quarterly reports = $12,800 annually per broker-dealer.
270

requirement as in proposed Rule 606(c) is preliminarily estimated to be 16,000 hours resulting in
a cost of $2,560,000. 450
More frequent reports compared to the proposed quarterly frequency, although broken
down by month, would have the benefit of providing the public with information that is more
timely. However, the Commission preliminarily believes that the value of having monthly rather
than quarterly reports is small because the Commission understands that analysis of order
handling data generally is based on data comprising more than one month. While this may be, at
least partially, due to the fact that current Rule 606 requires quarterly reports, staff experience
suggests that the analysis of order handling data would be based on more than one month of data
even if data were available at a higher frequency. This is because order handling data are
inherently noisy and a large sample size is necessary to ensure a robust analysis. To that extent,
from staff experience, the Commission understands that data spanning several months or even
years are used in the analysis of order handling data. The Commission notes that using data
spanning several months or even years does not preclude analyzing the data for trends, especially
recent trends. 451
In addition, more frequent disclosure could allow sensitive trading information to be
disclosed. For example, as discussed earlier, if a customer placing large institutional orders
450

80 hours more annually per broker-dealer that routes institutional orders x 200 brokerdealers that route institutional orders = 16,000 hours. The Commission preliminarily
estimates the total monetized burden for this requirement to be $2,560,000 ($12,800 more
annually per broker-dealer that routes institutional orders x 200 broker-dealers that route
institutional orders = $2,560,000).

451

One way to analyze the data for trends would be to look at subsamples within the full
sample. For example, one could consider quarters within a full calendar year of data.
Another way would be to employ a rolling window. For example, one could use a
twelve-month rolling window, that is, the analysis would use data comprising twelve
months of data and then replace the oldest data with more recent data one month at a
time.

271

primarily engages one broker-dealer and that broker-dealer has few, if any, other customers
placing significantly sized institutional orders, then other market participants may be able to
decipher the customer’s trading interest, particularly if the customer is building up or selling off
a large position over a longer period of time. The risk of such disclosure of sensitive trading
information is greater for monthly reporting frequency compared to the proposed quarterly
frequency because, by construction, quarterly reporting provides the data for the first two months
in the quarter with a delay compared to if the data for those two months were to be released
monthly. As a result, it is less likely that data for those two months contain information about a
customer’s current and ongoing trading interests.
4.

Automatic Provision of Customer-Specific Institutional Order

Handling Report (Proposed Rule 606(b)(3))
The Commission considered an alternative to proposed Rule 606(b)(3) that would not
require that customers request customer-specific standardized reports on institutional order
handling, but would instead require broker-dealers to provide them to customers automatically,
either by sending the reports out or by providing a portal where customers can view or download
the reports. The alternative could reduce the cost to customers, compared to both the baseline
and the proposal, of acquiring the institutional order handling reports, because customers would
not need to request the reports. At the same time, it is difficult to determine whether there is any
additional benefit to customers compared to the proposal. It is possible that not all customers
would use the reports provided to them, and under the proposal, those customers that see enough
value in the reports would incur the cost of requesting them.
With respect to the costs to broker-dealers, the alternative would impose additional initial
costs compared to the baseline, as the broker-dealers would be required to automatically provide

272

reports to all customers, not just those that request reports, and would have to build infrastructure
to generate these reports. The Commission preliminarily believes, however, that the alternative
would involve slight modifications to the systems that produce the institutional order handling
reports and thus preliminarily believes that these initial costs likely would be minimal.
The effect of this alternative on the costs to broker-dealers, compared to the proposal, is
unclear. On the one hand, the Commission preliminarily believes the alternative could impose
additional, albeit minimal, initial costs associated with developing systems to automatically
generate the reports compared to the proposal as well as to the baseline, as described above. On
the other hand, the Commission preliminarily believes the alternative could avoid the initial costs
associated with the proposed rule for those broker-dealers who do not currently have systems in
place to receive and respond to requests because they would not have to develop and deploy such
systems under this alternative, as they would under the proposal. Any related initial or ongoing
cost savings compared to the proposal may be minimal, as, in either case, such broker-dealers
would need to develop systems to generate customer-specific reports and broker-dealers could
add the customer requests to a list for individual report generation under the proposal just as they
add customers to a list for automated reports under the alternative. The alternative may reduce
ongoing personnel costs compared to the proposal because under the proposal, broker-dealers
would have to answer emails, phone calls, or other forms of requests for ad-hoc reports.
However, the brokerage industry is a relationship business and the Commission understands that
broker-dealers communicate frequently with their customers, especially their larger customers.
Further, the alternative may also result in additional ongoing personnel costs compared to the
proposal if customers who would not have requested reports contact the broker-dealers to discuss
reports they would receive automatically under the alternative. In addition, the Commission

273

notes that, even under the proposal, broker-dealers could choose to provide reports automatically
to their customers if this is more cost effective for them.
5.

Submission of Institutional Order Handling Reports (Proposed Rules

606(b)(3) and 606(c))
The Commission considered an alternative to proposed Rules 606(b)(3) and 606(c) that
would require the customer-specific institutional order handling reports and the public
aggregated institutional order handling reports to be submitted to the Commission. While
Commission staff may be able to replicate much of the information in the reports were the
proposed Consolidated Audit Trail to be approved, 452 the reports would contain some
information not included as data in the Consolidated Audit Trail (“CAT Data”), such as
information on the use of aggressive and passive order routing strategies. In addition, the
institutional order handling reports would be already assembled, making access to the reports
more efficient than assembling the analogous information from CAT Data. With direct access to
the reports under this alternative, Commission staff could potentially use the reports, for
example, to investigate best execution concerns, assist in risk-based examination decisions,
and/or conduct market analyses on order handling to promote data-driven rulemaking. These
activities could, in turn, benefit investors and the market in the form of enhanced investor
protection and better informed rulemaking. The alternative would also establish a central
location for all reports and could reduce the burden for Commission staff to seek out and obtain
the reports. Notably, under the proposal, the Commission could acquire the public aggregated

452

See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 77724 (April 27, 2016), 81 FR 30614 (May
17, 2016) (File No. 4-698) (Joint Industry Plan; Notice of Filing of the National
Market System Plan Governing the Consolidated Audit Trail), available at
https://www.sec.gov/rules/sro/nms/2016/34-77724.pdf..
274

institutional order handling reports as described in Rule 606(c), though not the customer-specific
institutional order handling reports as described in Rule 606(b)(3), from broker-dealer websites.
The proposal thus does not preclude the Commission from obtaining the public aggregated
institutional order handling reports to achieve some of the benefits of this alternative.
While providing some benefits, this alternative would also impose additional costs to
broker-dealers to submit their reports to the Commission. For example, under this alternative,
broker-dealers would incur additional costs to transmit the reports directly to the Commission
including any initial costs of setting up the connection to the Commission’s repository, though
the Commission preliminarily believes that these costs will not be significant. Further, the
Commission preliminarily believes that acquiring the reports from each broker-dealer may
impose burdens on Commission resources, 453 though the magnitude of those burdens is
unknown. Receiving customer-specific institutional order handling reports, which include
sensitive information, e.g., PII or sensitive proprietary information, could impose further costs to
the Commission as the Commission would need to take steps to safeguard this information,
though the Commission may be able to leverage its experience dealing with the receipt of
sensitive information in other contexts to minimize those costs.
6.

Disaggregate Categories of NMS Stocks for Rule 606(a)

The Commission considered an alternative to current Rule 606(a) that would not require
reports for retail orders be aggregated across all NMS stocks, but rather would require that those
reports be divided into categories, e.g., into Exchange-Traded Products (“ETPs”) and all other

453

The Commission recognizes that third party vendors could collect and sell the brokerdealer reports at a price that could reduce the burdens on Commission resources
compared to the burdens of Commission staff directly collecting the reports from brokerdealers.

275

NMS stocks, or into groups of stocks with different trading volume. The Commission
considered this alternative in addition to or instead of the requirement of current Rule 606(a) to
divide the reports by listing markets. This would increase the costs of producing the reports
relative to the proposal, but it also would provide more information.
For example, one such alternative could require that broker-dealers separately report the
routing of ETPs and the routing of non-ETP NMS stocks. The costs of producing the reports
under this alternative would be higher than the costs of the proposal because such an alternative
would require broker-dealers to classify NMS stocks into categories, e.g., into ETPs and nonETP stocks. There would be an initial cost for the classification of all stocks and an ongoing cost
to maintain the classification.
Because some ETPs trade differently than non-ETP NMS stocks, broker-dealers may
route them differently. To the extent that broker-dealers vary their order routing decisions for
ETP and non-ETP stocks, broker-dealer customers may benefit from the more targeted
information that would be provided for each type of stock under this alternative compared to the
proposed amendments to Rule 606(a). Specifically, the additional information concerning each
type of stock contained in the divided reports would allow customers, broker-dealers, trading
centers, and the public more generally to better evaluate and compare the order routing of retail
orders for each type stock, whereas under the proposed rule information on order routing is
provided for both ETPs and non-ETPs in the aggregate. While the consumers of such reports
would benefit from the reports being more informative with respect to the order routing for each
type of stock, broker-dealers would incur higher costs in processing the additional information
provided by the reports. To use the additional information, customers, broker-dealers, trading
centers, and the public more generally would have to process the additional information and

276

incorporate it in their analyses and models when evaluating and comparing the order routing of
retail orders, which could result in higher costs compared to the proposed amended Rule 606(a).
7.

Disclosure of Additional Information about Institutional Order

Routing and Execution
The Commission considered requiring additional information to be disclosed to
customers and the public relating to institutional order routing and execution quality. The
Commission considered requiring additional measures to be included in proposed Rule 606(b)(3)
and proposed Rule 606(c) reports for institutional orders. For example, the Commission
considered requiring that proposed Rule 606(b)(3) and proposed Rule 606(c) reports contain time
to execution, or implementation shortfall, which are dimensions of execution quality. In
addition, the Commission considered making the reports more detailed by requiring
segmentation of the data along additional dimensions, not only on order routing strategy .
In general, transaction costs of institutional orders depend on, among other factors, stock
characteristics, order characteristics, and market conditions at the time of order arrival and
during order execution. The reports could be segmented by any of these factors. Examples of
stock characteristics are liquidity or volatility of a stock. 454 Examples of order characteristics are
order size, usually measured as relative order size in relation to average daily volume, 455 or
whether an order is generated by a momentum strategy, where an customer buys a stock while
454

See, e.g., Zhuo Zhong, The Risk Sharing Benefit versus the Collateral Cost: The
Formation of the Inter-Dealer Network in Over-the-Counter Trading, Working Paper
(2014). Zhong argues that broker-dealers at the center of a dealer network are better able
to work off the inventory risk earned from executing orders containing volatile stocks,
which in turn will determine which broker-dealers receive orders in volatile stocks. Id.

455

Zhong suggests that broker-dealers at the center of the dealer network are better able to
work off the inventory earned from executing large orders, which in turn will determine
which broker-dealers receive large orders. See id.

277

the stock is increasing in price and sells a stock while the stock is falling in price. Examples of
market conditions are the current liquidity in a stock, e.g., measured by the most recent volume
or bid-ask spread compared to historical values and the current volatility in a stock, e.g.,
compared to historical values. Requiring any of this additional information in proposed Rule
606(b)(3) and proposed Rule 606(c) reports would increase the costs of producing the reports as
well as the costs of using the reports relative to proposed Rules 606(b)(3) and 606(c), but it
would also increase the information content and the usefulness of the reports relative to proposed
Rules 606(b)(3) and 606(c). 456
For some data items, the computation costs would be larger than for others. For example,
computing the implementation shortfall for an order is more involved than computing the time to
execution and thus would result in larger computational costs. Further, unlike the proposed
amendments, implementation shortfall and time to execution could involve running calculations
on data received on other systems and from others who handle orders later in their lifecycle.
This may make these fields more computationally costly than those proposed. However, with
the addition of other relevant information, the reports under this alternative might be more useful
than the proposed reports.
In addition, determining categories by metrics such as trading volume or volatility would
add complex definitions to the reports and the Commission is not aware of any natural
breakpoints that would simplify the identification of appropriate thresholds to classify stocks into

456

The costs of this alternative would be higher than the proposed amendments because it
would require that broker-dealers compute additional data items. For purposes of the
PRA, the Commission estimated the costs associated with the rule as proposed. See
supra Sections IV.D.1. and 2. The Commission does not currently have information on
how extensive the programming would be for broker-dealers to adapt their systems to
combine data that they may not yet combine to calculate these statistics.

278

groups of varying trading volume or volatility. Setting thresholds at levels that do not
meaningfully distinguish routing activity or execution quality would be more costly than the
proposed amendments without providing greater benefits.
The Commission could later evaluate data that would be disclosed pursuant to proposed
Rules 606(b)(3) and 606(c), if adopted, to inform any decision as to whether additional data
items or other changes might be appropriate.
8.

Institutional Order Handling Reports at the Stock Level (Proposed

Rule 606(b)(3))
The Commission also considered requiring the institutional order handling information
required by proposed Rule 606(b)(3) to be reported at the individual stock level rather than
aggregated across stocks. This alternative would enhance transparency to customers relative to
proposed Rule 606(b)(3) because the reports would be more detailed. Specifically, order
handling information calculated at the stock level may be more informative than aggregated data
because trading centers may not charge the same maker-taker fee for all stocks. It is possible for
a given trading center to use inverted and non-inverted fees for different stocks at the same time.
If this is the case, the reports as proposed by Rule 606(b)(3) could potentially mask conflicts of
interest because routing decisions may be different for different stocks on the same trading center
due to differing maker-taker fees across the stocks, particularly if some stocks have inverted and
other stocks have non-inverted fees on the same trading center.
Because the reports would be more detailed, however, this alternative would increase the
costs of producing the reports as well as the costs of using the reports relative to proposed Rule
606(b)(3). The Commission preliminarily believes that any potential increase in costs of
producing the reports would be negligible because broker-dealers already process the data order-

279

by-order and to aggregate orders by stock and venue, rather than only by venue, should not
increase significantly programming costs and processing time. While the Commission
preliminarily believes that the production of these voluminous reports itself may not result in
significantly higher costs than for the proposed reports, the size of the reports may result in
higher costs to deliver the reports to customers. For example, the report could be hundreds of
pages in hard copy, which would result in costs to print and deliver the report; likewise, a brokerdealer could incur higher costs to send a report electronically, depending on the size of the file
that has to be sent to customers. 457 Moreover, given the thousands of securities in existence,
requiring reporting metrics be broken down at the stock level would produce voluminous reports
that would be difficult and costly to process for all but the most sophisticated customers. For
these reasons, the Commission is proposing to have the reports broken down by venue and
aggregated across stocks.
9.

Alternative to Three-Year Posting Period (Proposed Amendments to

Rules 605(a)(2) and 606(a)(1), and Proposed Rule 606(c))
The Commission considered requiring broker-dealers and market centers to make both
institutional and retail reports available for a minimum length of time less than three years or
more than three years. If public reports are available for less than three years, then historical
data may not be as readily available to customers and the public who are seeking to analyze past
routing behavior of broker-dealers or past execution quality of market centers as it would be
under the proposal of a three-year posting period. Customers and the public would either have to
download the data more often or have to rely on third-party vendors who download and

457

For example, there typically are limitation to the size of files that can be sent through
email.

280

aggregate the data. For example, if a broker-dealer or market center posted the reports for only
one quarter, customers and the public would have to download the data every quarter if they
wanted access to data that is older than three months. Third-party vendors also would have to
download the data with sufficient frequency to capture historical data without gaps. This would
have the effect of reducing the transparency of broker-dealer routing decisions for customers
placing both retail and institutional orders and of the execution quality of market centers
compared to the proposal of a three-year posting period. The benefit of a shorter minimum
length of time would be that any costs broker-dealers incurred associated with posting reports
would be less than under the proposal of a three-year posting period. However, as discussed
above, the Commission preliminarily believes these incremental costs to be small and that the
cost savings associated with a shorter minimum length of time would not justify the costs of
historical data potentially being less readily available to customers and the public.
If public reports are available for more than three years, the historical data would be even
more readily available to customers and the public who are seeking to analyze past routing
behavior of broker-dealers or past execution quality of market centers as it would be under the
proposal of a three-year posting period. Customers and the public would have to download the
data less frequently to have access to historical data that is older than the minimum length of
time required. However, the Commission preliminarily believes that the additional benefit of a
minimum length of time of more than three years would be small because three years is a
meaningful time period considering the rapid changes in financial markets and customers and the
public would only need to download data every three years to be able to access historical data
older than three years. The Commission understands that maintaining public reports for more
than three years may represent a burden and result in an additional cost to broker-dealers.

281

However, as discussed above, the Commission preliminarily believes the additional cost to be
small. Nevertheless, the Commission preliminarily believes that a minimum length of time of
three years is appropriate.
10.

Request for Comment

The Commission requests comment on the Commission’s analysis of potential
alternatives as described above and the costs and benefits associated with such alternatives. In
particular, the Commission solicits comment on the following:
174.

Do commenters believe that the alternatives that the Commission considered are
appropriate? Do commenters believe that the analysis of the associated costs and
benefits of the alternatives is accurate? If not, please provide alternative costs and
benefits, including any data or statistics that supports those costs and benefits.

175.

Are there other alternatives that the Commission should consider? If so, please
provide additional alternatives and how their costs and benefits would compare to
the proposal.

176.

Do commenters believe the reports for retail orders should contain information
required by proposed Rule 606(b)(3) for institutional orders that is not currently
required by Rules 606(a)(1) and 606(b)(1) for retail orders? Why or why not? If
yes, what additional information should be required? Please be specific in your
response.

177.

Do commenters believe the Commission should require that the reports for
institutional orders required by proposed Rule 606(b)(3) include information
about payment for order flow and payment from profit-sharing relationships as
would be required by proposed Rule 606(a)(1)(iii) for retail orders? Why or why

282

not? Similarly, do commenters believe the Commission should require that the
reports for institutional orders required by proposed Rule 606(b)(3) include a
discussion of the material aspects of the broker-dealer’s relationship with each
venue as would be required by amended Rule 606(a)(1)(iv) for retail orders?
Why or why not? Please be specific in your response.
178.

Do commenters have information on the costs and benefits of any of these
alternatives? If so, please provide any data or statistics to support the estimates.

E.

Economic Effects and Effects on Efficiency, Competition, and Capital
Formation

Section 23(a)(2) of the Exchange Act requires the Commission, when making rules under
the Exchange Act, to consider the anti-competitive effects of any rules it adopts. 458 Specifically,
Exchange Act Section 23(a)(2) prohibits the Commission from adopting any rule that would
impose a burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of
the Exchange Act. 459 Furthermore, Section 3(f) of the Exchange Act requires the Commission,
whenever it engages in rulemaking where it is required to consider or determine whether an
action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, to consider, in addition to the protection
of investors, whether the action will promote efficiency, competition, and capital formation. 460
We consider these effects below.

458

15 U.S.C. 78c(f).

459

Id.

460

15 U.S.C. 78w(a)(2).

283

1.

Effects of Proposed Amendments on Efficiency and Competition
a.

Proposed Amendments to Disclosures for Retail Orders

As a result of the proposed amendments to Rule 606(a)(1), broker-dealers that route retail
orders would be required to make public enhanced aggregated reports detailing retail order
routing practices and information regarding marketable and non-marketable limit orders in
addition to information on payment for order flow arrangements, payment from any profitsharing relationship received, and transaction fees paid and rebates received per share and in
aggregate for such orders. In addition, the proposed amendments would require those reports to
be made available using an XML schema and associated PDF renderer on the Commission’s
Web site and to be maintained on an Internet Web site that is free and readily accessible to the
public for a period of three years. 461 As explained in detail below, the Commission preliminarily
believes that these enhanced disclosures, which require broker-dealers to describe any terms of
payment for order flow arrangements and profit-sharing relationships with Specified Venues that
may influence their order routing decisions for retail orders, should promote competition and
enhance efficiency.

461

Consistent with the proposed amendments to Rule 606, the Commission is proposing to
amend Rule 605(a)(2) to require market centers to keep public execution reports required
by the rule posted on an Internet Web site that is free of charge and readily accessible to
the public for a period of three years from the initial date of posting. The Commission
preliminarily believes that making past order execution information available to
customers and the public generally will be useful to those seeking to analyze historical
order execution information from different market centers. The proposed requirement to
keep public execution reports required by Rule 605 for a period of three years is expected
to make it easier, and thus more efficient, for the public to collect historical data for
analysis. The Commission preliminarily believes the proposed requirement could
enhance efficiency in the data collection process of those seeking to retrieve and analyze
historical order execution information from different market centers.

284

First, per the discussion above, the additional information required by the amendments
relative to the information required by current Rule 606(a)(1) would allow customers to better
assess the order routing and execution quality provided by their broker-dealers, 462 which, in turn,
would enable the customers to more efficiently evaluate and select broker-dealers. 463 The
proposed amendments to Rule 606(a) would require broker-dealers, for retail orders, to
differentiate between marketable and non-marketable limit orders and to publicly report the net
aggregate amount of any payment for order flow, payment from any profit-sharing relationship
received, the transaction fees paid, and transaction rebates received, both as a total dollar amount
and on a per share basis, for each of the following order types: market orders, marketable limit
order, non-marketable limit orders, and other orders. As discussed in Sections V.C.2.a. and
V.C.2.b., the Commission preliminarily believes that this would allow customers and the public
to better understand the potential conflicts of interest broker-dealers may face when routing retail
orders and to assess if and how well broker-dealers manage these potential conflicts of interest.
This would enable customers to make a more informed decision as to which broker-dealers to
use for retail orders. The Commission preliminarily believes that this would enhance the
competition for retail order flow between broker-dealers, which might result in better execution
quality for customers. In addition, if broker-dealers change their routing behavior in response to
the public reports required by proposed Rule 606(a)(1), the Commission preliminarily believes
462

See supra Section V.C.2.

463

The proposed amendments to Rule 606(a)(1) which would no longer require reports be
divided into separate sections for stocks listed on different exchanges may be an
exception to this. As discussed below, to the extent that order routing decisions may
differ for stocks that are listed on different exchanges, the reports that aggregate the data
as required by the proposed amendments to Rule 606(a)(1) may provide less information
to retail customers and the public and therefore may reduce the efficiency with which
customers and the public are able to evaluate and select broker-dealers based on the order
routing and execution quality they provide.

285

that competition between trading centers might be enhanced as trading centers could better
compete for retail order flow, which might result in better execution quality for retail orders and
innovation by existing or new trading centers. As discussed in Section V.C.1.c.i, one way a
trading center can attract order flow is through innovation thereby differentiating itself from
other trading centers.
Further, to the extent that the proposed amendments to Rule 606(a) lead to better
execution quality provided by broker-dealers and trading centers, the Commission preliminarily
believes that the proposed amendments would lead to lower transaction costs for customers.
Because transaction costs can be viewed as a measure for efficiency in the trading process, lower
transaction costs would indicate enhanced efficiency in the trading process. In addition, to the
extent that the proposed amendments to Rule 606(a) make the trading process more efficient by
lowering trading costs, the Commission preliminarily believes the proposed amendments would
reduce market friction and therefore have a positive effect on the efficiency of prices.
As discussed above, however, the proposed amendments to Rule 606(a)(1) could result in
costs that may have an effect on efficiency and competition. For example, the proposed
amendments would impose certain costs on broker-dealers who currently route retail orders, as
well as on broker-dealers who would like to start routing retail orders and will also have to
comply with the proposed amendments to Rule 606(a)(1). To the extent that the costs for a
broker-dealer entering the market for retail orders are higher under the proposed amended Rule
606(a)(1) than under the current Rule 606(a)(1), these higher costs could lead to a higher barrier
to entry and thereby reduce competition. However, the Commission preliminarily believes that
any difference in costs under the proposed amended Rule 606(a)(1) and the current Rule

286

606(a)(1) to be relatively small as to not alone deter broker-dealers from entering the market for
retail brokerage.
Under the proposed amendments to Rule 606, the broker-dealer may be concerned about
the perception of acting on a conflict of interest. As a result, a broker-dealer may be incentivized
to route fewer non-marketable limit orders to the trading center offering the highest rebate, even
if this affects execution quality, in an effort to ensure that a customer does not misconstrue the
intent behind the broker-dealer’s routing decisions. Such a potential outcome could reduce to
some degree the intensity of competition between broker-dealers on the dimension of execution
quality. However, the Commission preliminarily believes that such a scenario is not likely as
customers are likely to review the 606 reports in conjunction with execution quality statistics
currently required pursuant to Rule 605 and can discuss with their broker-dealers the order
routing and execution quality the broker-dealer provides.
b.

Proposed Rules for Disclosures for Institutional Orders

For institutional orders, proposed Rules 606(b)(3) and (c) would require broker-dealers
that route institutional orders to provide detailed reports to customers who submit such orders
upon the request of the customer, and to make public on a quarterly basis broken down by
calendar month, a report that aggregates the information. In addition, these proposed rules
would require reports on institutional orders to be made available using an XML schema and
associated PDF renderer to be published on the Commission’s Web site and to be maintained for
a period of three years. As discussed below, the Commission preliminarily believes that these
disclosures of order routing decisions by broker-dealers for institutional orders could promote
competition and enhance efficiency.

287

First, the disclosures required by the proposal, both on an individualized and aggregated
basis, would inform customers as to the institutional order routing practices of and the execution
quality provided by a particular broker-dealer, as described in further detail above. As a result,
customers would be able to use that information to compare the institutional order routing and
execution quality of their broker-dealers based on the institutional orders submitted to those
broker-dealers as reported in the customer-specific reports required by proposed Rule 606(b)(3).
In addition, a customer placing institutional orders would be able to compare the order routing
practices and execution quality of each broker-dealer based on the public aggregated institutional
order handling reports required under proposed Rule 606(c), independent of whether the
customer submits orders to a specific broker-dealer. Further, a customer would be able to
compare the order routing and execution quality of its institutional orders submitted to a specific
broker-dealer as reflected in the customer-specific reports required by proposed Rule 606(b)(3)
to the order routing and execution quality of all orders that the broker-dealer handled contained
in the public aggregated institutional order handling reports required by proposed Rule 606(c).
These enhanced disclosures would better enable customers to analyze institutional order
routing and execution quality provided by broker-dealers, which would allow customers to more
efficiently monitor, evaluate, and select broker-dealers. In addition, customers and brokerdealers would be able to evaluate execution quality of institutional orders on different trading
centers more efficiently. 464 Customers also would be better informed as to the institutional order
routing and execution quality they received from a particular broker-dealer. If a customer feels it
received poor order routing and execution quality from a particular broker-dealer, the customer
could initiate a dialogue with the broker-dealer for an explanation, which may lead to better
464

See supra Section V.C.1.

288

order routing decisions and execution quality by the broker-dealer. The customer may also
decide to use different broker-dealers in order to seek better order routing and execution quality.
This could enhance competition between broker-dealers.
Further, the Commission preliminarily believes that proposed Rules 606(b)(3) and (c)
might enhance competition between trading centers. First, if broker-dealers change their routing
decisions in response to the reports required by proposed Rules 606(b)(3) and (c), trading centers
would have an additional incentive to compete for institutional order flow. Second, the reports
required by proposed Rules 606(b)(3) and (c) are structured by trading center, so that the
execution quality at each trading center would be clearly visible. This may lead broker-dealers
to change their routing behavior, but also, more directly, trading centers could compare the
execution quality of all trading centers, which may again lead to enhanced competition among
trading centers. The Commission preliminarily believes that the enhanced competition between
trading centers could lead to innovation by existing and new trading centers, resulting in better
execution quality for customers placing institutional orders. As discussed in Section V.D.1.a if a
trading center were to lose order flow to other trading centers due to lower execution quality it
would have the incentive to innovate to improve its execution quality.
To the extent that proposed Rules 606(b)(3) and (c) lead to better execution quality being
provided by broker-dealers and trading centers, the Commission preliminarily believes that the
proposed amendments might lead to lower transaction costs for institutional orders. As
discussed above, lower transaction costs indicate enhanced efficiency in the trading process and
the Commission preliminarily believes as a result, the proposed rules would reduce market
friction and therefore have a positive effect on the efficiency of prices.

289

In addition, the Commission preliminarily believes that the requirement of standardized
customer-specific and standardized public aggregated institutional order handling reports in
proposed Rules 606(b)(3) and (c) would enhance efficiency for customers and the public in
processing the information contained in the reports, as compared to the ad-hoc reports customers
may currently receive from their broker-dealers. 465 Because the data will be presented in a
standardized format, customers and the public would be able to more efficiently aggregate,
compare, and analyze the data, as opposed to reconciling dissimilar formats, which may not
always be possible, before trying to aggregate, compare, and analyze the data.
In addition, as discussed above, the Commission understands that many broker-dealers
that handle institutional orders currently voluntarily provide reports to institutional customers
upon request. However, the Commission understands that how willing a broker-dealer is to
provide such reports and how detailed the reports are might depend on the size of an institutional
customer. To that extent, larger institutional customers have an advantage over smaller
institutional customers. Proposed Rules 606(b)(3) and (c) would provide access to reports on
institutional order handling to all institutional customers, regardless of their size.
The Commission notes that, even without the proposed rule amendments, institutional
customers can still request customized reports from their broker-dealers and broker-dealers
would have an incentive to provide such reports in order to attract institutional order flow. As is
currently the case, broker-dealers might be more willing to provide such customized reports to
larger institutional customers and the customized reports might provide more detailed
information for larger institutional customers. While the Commission preliminarily believes that
465

See supra Section V.B.1. for a discussion of the ad-hoc reports and supra Section V.C.4.
for a discussion of the standardization and format for the reports required by proposed
Rules 606(b)(3) and (c).

290

proposed Rules 606(b)(3) and (c) mitigate the advantage of larger institutional customers in that
respect, the Commission preliminarily believes that larger institutional customers are likely to
continue to have an advantage over smaller institutional customers to the extent that they are able
to obtain customized reports more easily and that those customized reports contain information
not contained in the reports required by proposed Rules 606(b)(3) and (c). The Commission
preliminarily believes that by reducing the informational advantage of larger institutional
customers over smaller institutional customers, proposed Rules 606(b)(3) and (c) would improve
fairness between institutional customers. Smaller institutional customers would be able to
evaluate and select their broker-dealers with efficiency more similar to larger institutional
customers, thereby increasing the efficiency of their investment process. The Commission
preliminarily believes that this would provide smaller institutional customers with information to
select the broker-dealers that promote better execution quality, to the benefit of their investors.
As discussed above, however, proposed Rules 606(b)(3) and (c) could result in certain
costs to broker-dealers who currently route institutional orders, as well as those who would like
to start routing institutional orders and thus would have to comply with proposed Rules 606(b)(3)
and (c). These costs could lead to a higher barrier to entry and thereby reduce competition.
However, the Commission preliminarily believes that the costs associated with proposed Rules
606(b)(3) and (c) are not large enough to meaningfully affect the barriers to entry and the level
of competition due to potential new entrants into the market for institutional orders. In addition,
the Commission preliminarily believes that any negative effect on competition due to heightened
barriers to entry are justified by the expected positive effect on competition of the disclosures
required by proposed Rules 606(b)(3) and (c).

291

In addition, the proposed amendments may cause broker-dealers to change how they
handle institutional orders. Given that broker-dealers would be aware of the metrics to be used a
priori, they may handle institutional orders in a manner that promotes a positive reflection on
their respective services but customers could erroneously view a broker-dealer’s handling as
suboptimal. 466 Any changes to broker-dealers’ order routing decisions due to proposed Rule
606(b)(3) may well be to the benefit of customers placing institutional orders, but if brokerdealers and customers focus exclusively on the metrics in the reports required by proposed Rule
606(b)(3), the order routing decisions could also be viewed as suboptimal for the
customers. Customers’ preferences could, therefore, be skewed toward the metrics as opposed to
their true objectives, which could skew broker-dealer incentives, potentially limiting the
efficiency and competition benefits of the proposed amendments.
For example, suppose a broker-dealer routes institutional orders so that the orders execute
at lower cost with a higher fill rate, shorter duration, and more price improvement than the
broker-dealer’s competitors. However, it could be the case that, in order to achieve these
objectives, the broker-dealer routes the majority of non-marketable limit order shares to the
trading center offering the highest rebate. An institutional customer that reviews the proposed
order handling reports might suspect that the broker-dealer acted in its self-interest by selecting
the highest rebate venue in order to maximize rebates when in fact, the broker-dealer made the
decision based on factors that might not be completely reflected in the proposed reports. 467

466

The Commission preliminarily believes that the set of metrics provide customers with the
most cost effective view of broker-dealer order handling practices, but recognizes a risk
that the information from the disclosures may not perfectly align routing practices and
execution quality.

467

Id.

292

2.

Effects of Proposed Amendments on Capital Formation

The Commission preliminarily believes that the proposed amendments to Rules 600, 605,
and 606 might have positive effects on capital formation, but the Commission notes that
predicting the magnitude of such effects is difficult as the effects likely would be indirect rather
than directly resulting from the proposed amendments.
As discussed, the Commission preliminarily believes the proposed amendments to Rules
600, 605, and 606 would enhance competition among broker-dealers and trading centers
resulting in better execution quality for customers that place retail and institutional orders and to
the extent that better execution quality would lead to lower friction in the trading process, the
proposed amendments would increase market efficiency in both the trading process and asset
pricing. This could lead to more efficient asset allocation because better execution quality and
greater market efficiency leads to more efficient investment decisions by customers that place
retail and institutional orders. 468 For example, lower transaction costs could allow customers to
rebalance their portfolios more frequently and more efficiently and at more efficient prices that
better reflect the true underlying value. More efficient asset allocation could have a positive
impact on capital formation as capital is allocated to firms with the most profitable projects,
which ultimately would allow these firms to raise capital more easily. 469
In addition, there is a relation between liquidity of an asset and the required rate of return
for that asset. 470 The less liquid an asset is, e.g., the higher transaction costs are to buy or sell it,
468

More efficient investment decisions means investing in the securities with the expected
risk and return that better fit the customer’s investment objectives.

469

See supra Section V.B.8. for a discussion of how asset allocation can relate to capital
formation.

470

See Yakov Amihud and Haim Mendelson, Asset Pricing and the Bid-Ask Spread, 17
Journal of Financial Economics 223 (December 1986).
293

the higher rate of return customers could demand as compensation. For example, lower
transaction costs for stocks could result in lower required rates of return for stocks. This in turn
could lead to lower cost of capital for the firms, which could have a positive impact on capital
formation because it would allow firms to raise capital at more favorable conditions.
3.

Request for Comment

In sum, the Commission preliminarily believes that as a result of the disclosures required
by the proposal bringing competitive forces to bear on the market, the proposed amendments
should enhance competition among broker-dealers as well as trading centers to provide
customers placing both retail and institutional orders with enhanced quality of execution. The
Commission preliminarily believes that this enhanced quality of execution should promote
efficiency in the trading process as well as pricing, which should also have a positive impact on
capital formation.
The Commission requests comment on its analysis of the proposal’s economic effects and
effects on efficiency, competition, and capital formation. In particular, the Commission solicits
comment on the following:
179.

Do commenters believe that the Commission’s analysis of the potential economic
effects of the proposal, including potential effects on efficiency, competition, and
capital formation is accurate? Why or why not? Please provide analysis and
empirical data to support your views.

180.

Are there other effects of the proposal that the Commission should consider? If
so, please explain and provide support for your views.

181.

Do commenters believe there are alternative mechanisms for achieving the
Commission’s goal of enhancing transparency for order routing practices while

294

promoting efficiency, competition and capital formation? If so, what would be
the potential impacts on promotion of efficiency, competition, and capital
formation? For example, what would be the effect of requiring broker-dealers to
provide the public reports for retail orders, on a monthly basis, rather than
quarterly? What would be the effect of requiring broker-dealers to provide the
public quarterly reports for retail orders, proposed in Rule 606(a), broken down
into exchange-traded products (ETP) and non-ETP NMS stocks? Would the
effects be the same for institutional orders under proposed Rules 606(b) and
606(c)? Please explain and provide support for your arguments.
182.

Do commenters believe that market participants would change their behavior in
response to the proposal? If so, which market participants and how? What would
be the costs and benefits of these changes? How would such changes affect
efficiency, competition, and capital formation? Would these changes affect
market quality and market efficiency? Please explain.

VI.

Consideration of Impact on the Economy
For purposes of the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996

(“SBREFA”), 471 the Commission requests comment on the potential effect of the proposed
amendments on the United States economy on an annual basis. The Commission also requests
comment on any potential increases in costs or prices for consumers or individual industries, and
any potential effect on competition, investment, or innovation. Commenters are requested to
provide empirical data and other factual support for their views to the extent possible.

471

Pub. L. No. 104-121, Title II, 110 Stat. 857 (1996) (codified in various sections of 5
U.S.C., 15 U.S.C. and as a note to 5 U.S.C. 601).

295

VII.

Regulatory Flexibility Analysis
The Regulatory Flexibility Act (“RFA”) 472 requires Federal agencies, in promulgating
rules, to consider the impact of those rules on small entities. Section 603(a) 473 of the
Administrative Procedure Act, 474 as amended by the RFA, generally requires the Commission to
undertake a regulatory flexibility analysis of all proposed rules, or proposed rule amendments, to
determine the impact of such rulemaking on “small entities.” 475 Section 605(b) of the RFA

states that this requirement shall not apply to any proposed rule or proposed rule amendment,
which if adopted, would not have significant economic impact on a substantial number of small
entities.
For purposes of the Commission rulemaking in connection with the RFA 476 as it relates
to broker-dealers, a small entity includes a broker-dealer that: (1) had total capital (net worth plus
subordinated liabilities) of less than $500,000 on the date in the prior fiscal year as of which its
audited financial statements were prepared pursuant to Rule 17a-5(d) under the Exchange Act, 477
or, if not required to file such statements, a broker-dealer with total capital (net worth plus
subordinated liabilities) of less than $500,000 on the last day of the preceding fiscal year (or in

472

5 U.S.C. 601 et seq.

473

5 U.S.C. 603(a).

474

5 U.S.C. 551 et seq.

475

Although Section 601(b) of the RFA defines the term “small entity,” the statute permits
agencies to formulate their own definitions. The Commission has adopted definitions for
the term “small entity” for purposes of Commission rulemaking in accordance with the
RFA. Those definitions, as relevant to this proposed rulemaking, are set forth in Rule 010, 17 CFR 240.0-10. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 18451 (January 28,
1982), 47 FR 5215 (February 4, 1982) (File No. AS-305).

476

See id.

477

17 CFR 240.17a-5(d).

296

the time that it has been in business, if shorter); and (2) is not affiliated with any person (other
than a natural person) that is not a small business or small organization. 478
Based on the Commission’s analysis of existing information relating to broker-dealers
that would be subject to the proposed amendments to Rule 606, the Commission preliminarily
believes that such broker-dealers do not fall within the definition of “small entity,” as defined
above. 479 Further, the proposed amendments to Rule 605 to require reports to remain posted on
an Internet Web site for a specified period of time will not have a significant impact on small
entities affected by the proposed Rule. 480 For the foregoing reasons, the Commission certifies
that the proposed amendments to Rules 600, 605, and 606 would not have a significant economic
impact on a substantial number of small entities for the purposes of the RFA.
The Commission requests comment regarding this certification. In particular, the
Commission solicits comment on the following:
183.

Do commenters agree with the Commission’s certification? If not, please
describe the nature of any impact on small entities and provide empirical data to
illustrate the extent of the impact.

VIII.

Statutory Authority and Text of the Proposed Rule Amendments
Pursuant to the Exchange Act, and particularly Sections 3(b), 5, 6, 11A, 15, 17, and 23(a)
thereof, 15 U.S.C. 78c, 78e, 78f, 78k–1, 78o, 78q, and 78w(a), the Commission proposes to
amend Sections 240.3a51-1, 240.13h-1, 242.105, 242.201, 242.204, 242.600, 242.602, 242.605,

478

See 17 CFR 240.0-10(c).

479

The Commission considered FOCUS Report data in making this determination.

480

See supra Section IV.D.5.

297

242.606, 242.607, 242.611, and 242.1000 of Chapter II of Title 17 of the Code of Federal
Regulations in the manner set forth below.
List of Subjects
17 CFR Part 240
Brokers, Dealers, Registration, Securities.
17 CFR Part 242
Brokers, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Securities.
For the reasons stated in the preamble, the Commission is proposing to amend title 17,
chapter II of the Code of Federal Regulations as follows:
PART 240 – GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934
1. The authority citation for part 240 continues to read in part as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77c, 77d, 77g, 77j, 77s, 77z–2, 77z–3, 77eee, 77ggg, 77nnn, 77sss, 77ttt,
78c, 78c-3, 78c-5, 78d, 78e, 78f, 78g, 78i, 78j, 78j-1, 78k, 78k-1, 78l, 78m, 78n, 78n-1, 78o, 78o4, 78o-10, 78p, 78q, 78-q1, 78s, 78u–5, 78w, 78x, 78ll, 78mm, 80a-20, 80a-23, 80a-29, 80a-37,
80b-3, 80b-4, 80b-11, 7201 et seq., and 8302; 7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(E); 12 U.S.C. 5221(e)(3); 18
U.S.C. 1350; Pub. L. 111-203, 939A, 124 Stat. 1376, (2010); and Pub. L. 112-106, sec. 503 and
602, 126 Stat. 326 (2012), unless otherwise noted.
*****
2. Section 240.3a51-1, paragraph (a) introductory text, is amended by removing the text
“§242.600(b)(47)” and adding in its place “§242.600(b)(49)”.
3. Section 240.13h-1, paragraph (a)(5), is amended by removing the text “Section
242.600(b)(46)” and adding in its place “§242.600(b)(48)”.

298

PART 242 – REGULATIONS M, SHO, ATS, AC, NMS AND SBSR AND
CUSTOMER MARGIN REQUIREMENTS FOR SECURITY FUTURES
4. The authority citation for part 242 continues to read as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77g, 77q(a), 77s(a), 78b, 78c, 78g(c)(2), 78i(a), 78j, 78k-1(c), 78l,
78m, 78n, 78o(b), 78o(c), 78o(g), 78q(a), 78q(b), 78q(h), 78w(a), 78dd-1, 78mm, 80a23,
80a-29, and 80a-37.
5. Section 242.105 is amended by:
a. in paragraph (b)(1)(i)(C) removing the text “§242.600(b)(22)” and adding in its place
“§242.600(b)(23)”.
b. in paragraph (b)(1)(ii), removing the text “§242.600(b)(64)” and adding in its place
“§242.600(b)(69)”.
6. Section 242.201 is amended by:
a. in paragraph (a)(1) removing the text “§242.600(b)(47)” and adding in its place
“§242.600(b)(49)”.
b. in paragraph (a)(2) removing the text “§242.600(b)(22)” and adding in its place
“§242.600(b)(23)”.
c. in paragraph (a)(4) removing the text “§242.600(b)(42)” and adding in its place
“§242.600(b)(44)”.
d. in paragraph (a)(5) removing the text “§242.600(b)(49)” and adding in its place
“§242.600(b)(52)”.
e. in paragraph (a)(6) removing the text “§242.600(b)(55)” and adding in its place
“§242.600(b)(60)”.

299

f. in paragraph (a)(7) removing the text “§242.600(b)(64)” and adding in its place
“§242.600(b)(69)”.
g. in paragraph (a)(9) removing the text “§242.600(b)(78)” and adding in its place
“§242.600(b)(83)”.
7. Section 242.204, paragraph (g)(2), is amended by removing the text “Rule 600(b)(64)
of Regulation NMS (17 CFR 242.600(b)(64)” and adding in its place “§600(b)(69) of Regulation
NMS (17 CFR 242.600(b)(69)”.
8. Section 242.600 is amended by:
a. redesignating paragraphs (b)(52) through (b)(83) as (b)(57) through (b)(88);
b. adding new paragraphs (b)(55) and (b)(56);
c. redesignating paragraphs (b)(49) through (b)(51) as (b)(52) through (b)(54);
d. adding new paragraph (b)(51);
e. redesignating paragraphs (b)(30) through (b)(48) as (b)(32) through (b)(50);
f. amending newly redesignated paragraph (b)(50) by removing the word “customer” and
adding in its place “retail”;
g. adding new paragraph (b)(31);
h. redesignating paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(29) as (b)(2) through (b)(30);
i. adding new paragraph (b)(1).
j. amending newly redesignated paragraph (b)(19) by removing the word “Customer” and
adding in its place “Retail”;
k. amending newly redesignated paragraph (b)(20) by removing the word “customer” and
adding in its place “retail”;

300

l. amending newly redesignated paragraph (b)(24)(ii) by removing the word “customer”
and adding in its place “retail”;
The additions read as follows:
§242.600

NMS security designation and definitions.

*****
(b) * * *
(1) Actionable indication of interest means any indication of interest that explicitly or
implicitly conveys all of the following information with respect to any order available at the
venue sending the indication of interest:
(i) Symbol;
(ii) Side (buy or sell);
(iii) A price that is equal to or better than the national best bid for buy orders and the
national best offer for sell orders; and
(iv) A size that is at least equal to one round lot.
*****
(31) Institutional order means an order to buy or sell an NMS stock that is not for the
account of a broker or dealer and is an order for a quantity of an NMS stock having a market
value of at least $200,000.
*****
(51) Non-marketable limit order means any limit order other than a marketable limit
order.
*****

301

(55) Orders providing liquidity means orders that were executed against after resting at a
trading center.
(56) Orders removing liquidity means orders that executed against resting trading interest
at a trading center.
*****
9. Section 242.602 is amended by:
a. in paragraph (a)(5)(i) removing the text “§242.600(b)(73)” and adding in its place
“§242.600(b)(78)”.
b. in paragraph (a)(5)(ii) removing the text “§242.600(b)(73)” and adding in its place
“§242.600(b)(78)”.
10. Section 242.605 is amended by:
a. revising the paragraph designated as a Preliminary Note; and
b. adding a sentence at the end of paragraph (a)(2).
The addition reads as follows:
§242.605

Disclosure of order execution information.

Section 242.605 requires market centers to make available standardized, monthly reports
of statistical information concerning their order executions. This information is presented in
accordance with uniform standards that are based on broad assumptions about order execution
and routing practices. The information will provide a starting point to promote visibility and
competition on the part of market centers and broker-dealers, particularly on the factors of
execution price and speed. The disclosures required by this section do not encompass all of the
factors that may be important to investors in evaluating the order routing services of a brokerdealer. In addition, any particular market center's statistics will encompass varying types of

302

orders routed by different broker-dealers on behalf of customers with a wide range of objectives.
Accordingly, the statistical information required by this section alone does not create a reliable
basis to address whether any particular broker-dealer failed to obtain the most favorable terms
reasonably available under the circumstances for retail orders.
(a) * * *
(2) * * * Every market center shall keep such reports posted on an Internet Web site that
is free and readily accessible to the public for a period of three years from the initial date of
posting on the Internet Web site.
*****
11. Section 242.606 is revised to read as follows:
§242.606 – Disclosure of order routing information.
(a) Quarterly report on retail order routing.
(1) Every broker or dealer shall make publicly available for each calendar quarter a report
on its routing of non-directed orders in NMS securities during that quarter broken down by
calendar month and keep such report posted on an Internet Web site that is free and readily
accessible to the public for a period of three years from the initial date of posting on the Internet
Web site. Such report shall include a section for NMS stocks and a separate section for NMS
securities that are option contracts. Such report shall be made available using the most recent
versions of the XML schema and the associated PDF renderer as published on the Commission’s
Web site for all reports required by this section. Each section in a report shall include the
following information:
(i) The percentage of total retail orders for the section that were non-directed orders, and
the percentages of total non-directed orders for the section that were market orders, marketable
limit orders, non-marketable limit orders, and other orders;
303

(ii) The identity of the ten venues to which the largest number of total non-directed orders
for the section were routed for execution and of any venue to which five percent or more of nondirected orders were routed for execution, the percentage of total non-directed orders for the
section routed to the venue, and the percentages of total non-directed market orders, total nondirected marketable limit orders, total non-directed non-marketable limit orders, and total nondirected other orders for the section that were routed to the venue;
(iii) For each venue identified pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, the net
aggregate amount of any payment for order flow received, payment from any profit-sharing
relationship received, transaction fees paid, and transaction rebates received, both as a total
dollar amount and per share, for each of the following non-directed order types:
(A) Market orders;
(B) Marketable limit orders;
(C) Non-marketable limit orders; and
(D) Other orders.
(iv) A discussion of the material aspects of the broker’s or dealer’s relationship with each
venue identified pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, including a description of any
arrangement for payment for order flow and any profit-sharing relationship and a description of
any terms of such arrangements, written or oral, that may influence a broker’s or dealer’s order
routing decision including, among other things:
(A) Incentives for equaling or exceeding an agreed upon order flow volume threshold,
such as additional payments or a higher rate of payment;
(B) Disincentives for failing to meet an agreed upon minimum order flow threshold, such
as lower payments or the requirement to pay a fee;

304

(C) Volume-based tiered payment schedules; and
(D) Agreements regarding the minimum amount of order flow that the broker-dealer
would send to a venue.
(2) A broker or dealer shall make the report required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section
publicly available within one month after the end of the quarter addressed in the report.
(b) Customer requests for information on order routing.
(1) Every broker or dealer shall, on request of a customer, disclose to its customer the
identity of the venue to which the customer’s retail orders were routed for execution in the six
months prior to the request, whether the orders were directed orders or non-directed orders, and
the time of the transactions, if any, that resulted from such orders. Such disclosure shall be made
available using the most recent versions of the XML schema and the associated PDF renderer as
published on the Commission’s Web site for all reports required by this section.
(2) A broker or dealer shall notify customers in writing at least annually of the
availability on request of the information specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(3) Every broker or dealer shall, on request of a customer that places, directly or
indirectly, an institutional order with the broker or dealer, disclose to such customer within seven
business days of receiving the request, a report on its handling of institutional orders for that
customer for the prior six months by calendar month. Such report shall be made available using
the most recent versions of the XML schema and the associated PDF renderer as published on
the Commission’s Web site for all reports required by this section. For purposes of such report,
the handling of an institutional order includes the handling of all smaller orders derived from the
institutional order. Such report shall include, with respect to the order flow sent by the customer
to the broker or dealer, the total number of shares of institutional orders sent to the broker or

305

dealer by the customer during the relevant period; the total number of shares executed by the
broker or dealer as principal for its own account; the total number of institutional orders exposed
by the broker or dealer through an actionable indication of interest; and the venue or venues to
which institutional orders were exposed by the broker or dealer through an actionable indication
of interest. Such report also shall include the following columns of information for each venue
to which the broker or dealer routed institutional orders for the customer, in the aggregate and
broken down by passive, neutral, and aggressive order routing strategies as defined in paragraph
(b)(3)(v) of this section:
(i) Information on Order Routing.
(A) Total shares routed;
(B) Total shares routed marked immediate or cancel;
(C) Total shares routed that were further routable; and
(D) Average order size routed.
(ii) Information on Order Execution.
(A) Total shares executed;
(B) Fill rate (shares executed divided by the shares routed);
(C) Average fill size;
(D) Average net execution fee or rebate (cents per 100 shares, specified to four decimal
places);
(E) Total number of shares executed at the midpoint;
(F) Percentage of shares executed at the midpoint;
(G) Total number of shares executed that were priced on the side of the spread more
favorable to the institutional order;

306

(H) Percentage of total shares executed that were priced at the side of the spread more
favorable to the institutional order;
(I) Total number of shares executed that were priced on the side of the spread less
favorable to the institutional order; and
(J) Percentage of total shares executed that were priced on the side of the spread less
favorable to the institutional order.
(iii) Information on Orders that Provided Liquidity.
(A) Total number of shares executed of orders providing liquidity;
(B) Percentage of shares executed of orders providing liquidity;
(C) Average time between order entry and execution or cancellation, for orders providing
liquidity (in milliseconds); and
(D) Average net execution rebate or fee for shares of orders providing liquidity (cents per
100 shares, specified to four decimal places).
(iv) Information on Orders that Removed Liquidity.
(A) Total number of shares executed of orders removing liquidity;
(B) Percentage of shares executed of orders removing liquidity; and
(C) Average net execution fee or rebate for shares of orders removing liquidity (cents per
100 shares, specified to four decimal places).
(v) For the purposes of paragraph (b)(3) of this section:
(A) A passive order routing strategy is one that emphasizes the minimization of price
impact over the speed of execution of the entire institutional order;
(B) A neutral order routing strategy is one that is relatively neutral between
minimization of price impact and the speed of execution of the entire institutional order; and

307

(C) An aggressive order routing strategy is one that emphasizes the speed of execution of
the entire institutional order over minimization of price impact.
The broker or dealer shall assign each order routing strategy that it uses for institutional orders to
one of these three categories in a consistent manner for each report it prepares pursuant to
paragraph (b)(3) of this section, promptly update the assignments any time an existing strategy is
amended or a new strategy is created that would change such assignment, and document the
specific methodologies it relies upon for making such assignments. Every broker or dealer shall
preserve a copy of the methodologies used to assign its order routing strategies and maintain
such copy as part of its books and records in a manner consistent with § 240.17a-4(b) of this
chapter.
(c) Quarterly report on institutional order handling. A broker or dealer that receives
institutional orders shall make publicly available a report that aggregates the information
required by paragraphs (b)(3) of this section, whether or not requested by a customer, on its
handling of all institutional orders for all customers for each calendar quarter by calendar month
within one month after the end of the quarter. Such report shall be made available using the
most recent versions of the XML schema and the associated PDF renderer as published on the
Commission’s Web site for all reports required by this section. Every broker or dealer shall keep
such report posted on an Internet Web site that is free and readily accessible to the public for a
period of three years from the initial date of posting on the Internet Web site.
(d) Exemptions. The Commission may, by order upon application, conditionally or
unconditionally exempt any person, security, or transaction, or any class or classes of persons,
securities, or transactions, from any provision or provisions of this section, if the Commission

308

determines that such exemption is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, and is
consistent with the protection of investors.
12. Section 242.607 is amended by:
a. in paragraph (a)(1) removing the words “customers’ orders” and add in its place
“customers’ retail orders” and removing the word “customer” and add in its place “retail”.
b. in paragraph (a)(2) removing the word “customer” and add in its place “retail”.
13. Section 242.611, paragraph (c) is amended by removing the text “§242.600(b)(30)”
and adding in its place “§242.600(b)(32)”.
14. In Section 242.1000 amend the definition of Plan processor by removing the text
“§242.600(b)(55)” and adding in its place “§242.600(b)(60)”.
By the Commission.
Dated: July 13, 2016

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

309

