UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78170 / June 28, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4438 / June 28, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17318
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
AND SECTION 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
PATRICK G. MACKARONIS,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Section 203(f) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Patrick G. Mackaronis (“Mackaronis”
or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these
proceedings and the findings contained in Sections III.2. below, which are admitted, Respondent

consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Against Patrick G.
Mackaronis (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
From February 2008 through August 2012, Mackaronis was a registered
representative associated with a broker-dealer and investment adviser registered with the
Commission. Mackaronis, 31 years old, is a resident of New York, New York.
2.
On March 8, 2016, Mackaronis agreed to a consent and final judgment before the
United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, in U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission v. James R. Trolice, et al., Case No. 2:16-cv-02513. On June 6, 2016, a final
judgment in the civil case was entered against Mackaronis, permanently enjoining him from future
violations, directly or indirectly, of Sections 5(a) and 5(c) of the Securities Act of 1933 (the
“Securities Act”) [15 U.S.C. § 77e(a) and 77e(c)], Section 15(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (the “Exchange Act”) [15 U.S.C. § 78o(a)], and Section 17(a) of the Securities Act [15
U.S.C. § 77q(a)], and ordering him to pay $143,486.91 in disgorgement, pre-judgment interest, and
a penalty pursuant to a payment plan set forth in the consent and final judgment.
3.

The Commission’s complaint alleged that:
a. in connection with the sale of interests in one limited liability company,
Mackaronis engaged in a variety of conduct which operated as a fraud and
deceit on investors;
b. Mackaronis sold unregistered securities; and
c. Mackaronis acted as an unregistered representative in the inducement or attempt
to induce the purchase or sale of securities.
IV.

In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Mackaronis’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act,
and Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act, that Respondent Mackaronis be, and hereby is barred from
association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal
advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating organization with the right to
apply for reentry after three (3) years to the appropriate self-regulatory organization, or if there is
none, to the Commission.
2

Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

