SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
(Release No. 34-77699; File No. SBSDR-2016-01)
April 22, 2016
Security-Based Swap Data Repositories; ICE Trade Vault, LLC; Notice of Filing of Application
for Registration as a Security-Based Swap Data Repository
I.

Introduction
On March 29, 2016, and as amended on April 18, 2016, ICE Trade Vault, LLC (“ICE

Trade Vault”) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) a Form SDR
seeking registration as a security-based swap data repository (“SDR”) under Section 13(n) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) 1 and the Commission’s rules promulgated
thereunder. 2 ICE Trade Vault proposes to operate as a registered SDR for security-based swap
(“SBS”) transactions in the credit derivatives asset class. The Commission is publishing this
notice to solicit comments from interested persons regarding ICE Trade Vault’s Form SDR, 3 and

1

15 U.S.C. 78m(n)(3).

2

17 CFR 240.13n-1 through 240.13n-12.

3

ICE Trade Vault filed its Form SDR, including the exhibits thereto, electronically with
the Commission. The descriptions set forth in this notice regarding the structure and operations
of ICE Trade Vault have been derived, excerpted, and/or summarized from information in ICE
Trade Vault’s Form SDR application, and principally from ICE Trade Vault’s Guidebook
(Exhibit GG.2), which outlines the applicant’s policies and procedures designed to address its
statutory and regulatory obligations as an SDR registered with the Commission. ICE Trade
Vault’s Form SDR application and non-confidential exhibits thereto are available in EDGAR at
http://www.sec.gov/cgi-bin/browseedgar?CIK=0001658496&owner=exclude&action=getcompany&Find=Search. In addition, the
public may access copies of these materials on the Commission’s website at:
http://www.sec.gov/rules/other/2016/ice-trade-vault-form-sdr.htm.

1

the Commission will consider any comments it receives in making its determination whether to
grant ICE Trade Vault registration as an SDR. 4
II.

Background
A.

SDR Registration, Duties and Core Principles, and Regulation SBSR

Section 763(i) of the Dodd-Frank Act added Section 13(n) to the Exchange Act,
which requires an SDR to register with the Commission and provides that, to be registered and
maintain registration as an SDR, an SDR must comply with certain requirements and “core
principles” described in Section 13(n) and any requirement that the Commission may impose by
rule or regulation. 5
The Commission adopted Exchange Act Rules 13n-1 through 13n-12 (“SDR rules”),
which require an SDR to register with the Commission and comply with certain “duties and core
principles.” 6 Among other requirements, the SDR rules require an SDR to collect and maintain
accurate SBS data and make such data available to the Commission and other authorities so that
relevant authorities will be better able to monitor the buildup and concentration of risk exposure
in the SBS market. 7

4

ICE Trade Vault’s Form SDR application also constitutes an application for registration
as a securities information processor (“SIP”). See Exchange Act Release No. 74246 (Feb. 11,
2015), 80 FR 14438, 14458 (Mar. 19, 2015) (“SDR Adopting Release”).
5

15 U.S.C. 78m(n).

6

See SDR Adopting Release, 80 FR at 14438.

7

See SDR Adopting Release, 80 FR at 14450.

2

Concurrent with the Commission’s adoption of the SDR rules, the Commission adopted
Regulation SBSR, 8 which, among other things, provides for the reporting of SBS information to
registered SDRs, and the public dissemination of SBS transaction, volume, and pricing
information by registered SDRs. In addition, Regulation SBSR requires each registered SDR to
register with the Commission as a securities information processor. 9
B.

Standard for Granting SDR Registration

To be registered with the Commission as an SDR and maintain such registration, an SDR
is required (absent an exemption) to comply with the requirements and core principles described
in Exchange Act Section 13(n), as well as with any requirements that the Commission adopts by
rule or regulation. 10 Exchange Act Rule 13n-1(c)(3) provides that the Commission shall grant
the registration of an SDR if it finds that the SDR is so organized, and has the capacity, to be
able to (i) assure the prompt, accurate, and reliable performance of its functions as an SDR; (ii)
comply with any applicable provisions of the securities laws and the rules and regulations
thereunder; and (iii) carry out its functions in a manner consistent with the purposes of Section
13(n) of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder. 11 The Commission must
deny registration of an SDR if it does not make such a finding. 12

8

See Exchange Act Release No. 74244 (Feb. 11, 2015), 80 FR 14563 (Mar. 19, 2015)
(“Regulation SBSR Adopting Release”).
9

See Regulation SBSR Adopting Release, 80 FR at 14567.

10

See Exchange Act Section 13(n)(3), 15 U.S.C. 78m(n)(3).

11

See 17 CFR 240.13n-1(c)(3).

12

See id.

3

In determining whether an applicant meets the criteria set forth in Rule 13n-1(c), the
Commission will consider the information reflected by the applicant on its Form SDR, as well as
any additional information obtained from the applicant. For example, Form SDR requires an
applicant to provide, among other things, contact information, a list of the asset class(es) for
which the applicant is collecting and maintaining data or for which it proposes to collect and
maintain data, a description of the functions that it performs or proposes to perform, and general
information regarding its business organization. 13 This, and other information reflected on the
Form SDR, will assist the Commission in understanding the basis for registration as well as the
SDR applicant’s overall business structure, financial condition, track record in providing access
to its services and data, technological reliability, and policies and procedures to comply with its
statutory and regulatory obligations. 14 Furthermore, the information requested in Form SDR will
enable the Commission to assess whether the SDR applicant would be able to comply with the
federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder, and ultimately whether to grant
or deny an application for registration. 15
III.

ICE Trade Vault Application for Registration
ICE Trade Vault currently operates as a trade repository under the regulatory framework

of other authorities. Specifically, ICE Trade Vault is a swap data repository regulated and
provisionally registered by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”). 16 In that

13

See SDR Adopting Release, 80 FR at 14458.

14

See id.

15

See SDR Adopting Release, 80 FR at 14458-59.

16

See Order of Provisional Registration, In the Matter of the Request of ICE Trade Vault,
LLC for Provisional Registration as a Swap Data Repository Pursuant to Section 21 of the
Commodity Exchange Act and Part 49 of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
4

capacity, ICE Trade Vault has been accepting derivatives data for the commodity and credit asset
classes in the United States since October 2012. Additionally, in 2014, ICE Trade Vault was
approved by the Ontario Securities Commission,17 the Autorité des marchés financiers, 18 and the
Manitoba Securities Commission19 as a Canadian Trade Repository to serve the commodity,
credit, and foreign exchange asset classes.
A.

Corporate Structure and Governance Arrangements

ICE Trade Vault is a Delaware limited liability company, and is a wholly owned
subsidiary of Intercontinental Exchange Holdings, Inc., which, in turn, is a wholly owned
subsidiary of Intercontinental Exchange, Inc. (“ICE”), a publicly traded company. 20 ICE Trade
Vault is managed by a Board of Directors responsible for overseeing its operations. 21 The Board
of Directors has the ability to: (i) designate and authorize specific appointed officers to act on

Regulations (June 27, 2012), available at
http://www.cftc.gov/stellent/groups/public/@otherif/documents/ifdocs/icetradevaultregistration.p
df.
17

See Ontario Securities Commission, Order (Section 21.2.2 of the Securities Act), in the
Matter of the Securities Act, R.S.O. 1990, Chapter S.5, as amended, and in the Matter of ICE
Trade Vault, LLC (Sept. 19, 2014), available at
http://www.osc.gov.on.ca/documents/en/Securities/ord_20140923_215-ice-trade-vault-llc.pdf.
18

See Autorité des marchés financiers, Decision 2014-PDG-0111, Bulletin 2014-09-25,
Vol. 11, n°38 (Sept. 23, 2014), available at http://www.lautorite.qc.ca/files/pdf/bourses-oarchambres/referentiels-centraux/2014_pdg_0111_ice_tv.pdf.
19

See Manitoba Securities Commission, Order No. 7014 (Oct. 23, 2014), available at
http://docs.mbsecurities.ca/msc/oe/en/item/105126/index.do.
20

See Exhibit V.2 (Disclosure Document). ICE is a global operator of exchanges, clearing
houses, and data services for financial and commodity markets. ICE operates global
marketplaces for trading and clearing a broad array of securities and derivatives contracts across
major asset classes, including energy and agricultural commodities, interest rates, equities, equity
derivatives, credit derivatives, bonds, and currencies.
21

See id.

5

behalf of the Board of Directors; (ii) fix, determine and levy all fees, when necessary; (iii)
prepare and amend ICE Trade Vault’s Guidebook 22; (iv) act in emergencies; and (v) delegate any
such power to the appropriate party. 23 The Board of Directors would oversee ICE Trade Vault’s
SDR functions as it currently oversees the other regulated services that ICE Trade Vault
provides. 24
According to ICE Trade Vault, the Board of Directors is required to have at least three
Directors, all appointed by ICE. 25 ICE Trade Vault represents that ICE considers several factors
in determining the composition of the Board of Directors, including whether directors, both
individually and collectively, possess the required integrity, experience, judgment, commitment,
skills and expertise to exercise their obligations of oversight and guidance over an SDR. 26
Additionally, ICE Trade Vault represents that its participants are afforded the opportunity
to participate in the process for nominating the ICE Trade Vault Independent Director and with
the right to petition for alternative candidates. 27 According to ICE Trade Vault, at least one
Director will at all times be “independent” in accordance with applicable provision(s) of the New

22

See Exhibit GG.2 (Guidebook).

23

See id.

24

See id.

25

See id.

26

See id.

27

See id.

6

York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual. 28 ICE Trade Vault represents that two officers
of ICE Trade Vault’s parent, ICE, currently serve as the Non-Independent Directors. 29
ICE Trade Vault’s Chief Compliance Officer (“CCO”) is appointed by the Board of
Directors and reports directly to the President of ICE Trade Vault. 30 The Board of Directors
approves the compensation of the CCO and meets with the CCO at least annually. 31 According
to ICE Trade Vault, the CCO also works directly with the Board of Directors in certain instances,
for example, when resolving conflicts of interest. 32 ICE Trade Vault represents that the CCO’s
responsibilities include, but are not limited to: (i) preparing and signing a compliance report
with a financial report to be provided to the Commission annually; (ii) reviewing the compliance
of ICE Trace Vault with respect to regulatory requirements and core principles; and (iii)
establishing and administering written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent
violations of the Exchange Act. 33
ICE Trade Vault directors, officers and employees must comply with the ICE Global
Code of Business Conduct, which describes policies for, among other things, handling conflicts
of interest, prohibiting insider trading, complying with the law and document management and
retention requirements. 34 In addition, ICE Trade Vault prohibits any member of its Board or of

28

See id.

29

See id.

30

See Exhibit V.2

31

See id.

32

See id.

33

See id.

34

See Exhibit D.4 (Global Code of Business Conduct).

7

any Board committee (that the Board may create from time to time as it deems necessary) 35 that
has authority to take action for ICE Trade Vault from knowingly participating in deliberations or
voting in any matter involving a named party in interest where such member: (i) is a named
party in interest; (ii) is an employer, employee, or guarantor of a named party in interest; (iii) has
a family relationship with a named party in interest; or (iv) has any other significant ongoing
relationship with a named party in interest or an affiliate of such party. 36 Furthermore, the CCO
of ICE Trade Vault shall determine whether any member of a deliberating body is subject to a
prohibition under its conflicts of interest policies. 37
B.

Description of ICE Trade Vault’s SDR Service

ICE Trade Vault has applied to become a registered SDR with the Commission to accept
data in respect of all SBS trades in the credit derivatives asset class. 38
ICE Trade Vault states that it intends to provide an SDR service that facilitates the
collection, storage and regulatory reporting of a comprehensive range of trade data in respect of
credit derivatives trades. 39 ICE Trade Vault also states that it intends to offer certain ancillary
services (i.e., services offered by ICE Trade Vault that are not core SDR functions), which
include: (i) confirmation of the accuracy of the data submitted to ICE Trade Vault; and (ii)
resolution of trade record errors and disputes. 40

35

See Exhibit D.3 (Governance Principles).

36

See Exhibit GG.2.

37

See id.

38

See ICE Trade Vault Form SDR, Item 6; see also Exhibits V.2 and GG.2.

39

See Exhibit V.2.

40

See id.

8

C.

Access

ICE Trade Vault represents that it would provide access to its SDR service on a fair, open
and not unreasonably discriminatory basis. 41 According to ICE Trade Vault, access to and usage
of its SDR service is available to all market participants that engage in SBS transactions, and do
not require the use of any other ancillary service offered by ICE Trade Vault, except for any
ancillary service(s) that ICE Trade Vault is required to provide. 42 ICE Trade Vault represents
that for security reasons, access to the ICE Trade Vault system is strictly limited to market
participants with valid permissions and security access who have executed a Participant
Agreement with ICE Trade Vault and have completed and delivered to ICE Trade Vault the
applicable ICE Trade Vault Enrollment Form (such market participants, “Participants”). 43
According to ICE Trade Vault, Participants will only have access to their own data and data that
ICE Trade Vault is required to make publically available. 44 ICE Trade Vault notes that
passwords must meet technical and procedural processes for information security, must be from
41

See Exhibits V.2 and GG.2.

42

See id.; see also SDR Adopting Release, 80 FR at 14451-52 (Commission noting that
confirmation and dispute resolution services or functions “are ancillary. . . . [and are] not ‘core’
SDR services, which would cause a person providing such core services to meet the definition of
an SDR, and thus, require the person to register with the Commission as an SDR. However,
SDRs are required to perform these two services or functions, and thus, they are required
ancillary services[.] . . . An SDR may delegate some of these required ancillary services to third
party service providers, who do not need to register as SDRs to provide such services. The SDR
will remain legally responsible for the third party service providers’ activities relating to the
required ancillary services and their compliance with applicable rules under the Exchange Act.”).
43

See Exhibit V.2 (stating also that these documents are available upon request, and when
enrolling with ICE Trade Vault, Participants must designate a master user (“Administrator”),
who will, among other things, create and maintain all user IDs for its firm, which will ensure ICE
Trade Vault access is granted by a trusted individual at the Participant’s firm who is closest to
and has the most knowledge of those in the firm who require access).
44

See id.

9

eight to fourteen characters in length, utilize three different character types, and must be reset at
least annually. 45
ICE Trade Vault represents that determinations to revoke access to its system, its SDR
service or data maintained by ICE Trade Vault shall be made by the CCO. 46 According to ICE
Trade Vault, unless circumstances require immediate action, prior to implementing a limitation
or revocation of access to its system, its SDR service or SDR information, ICE Trade Vault’s
President and General Counsel shall review the basis for the limitation or revocation, with the
CCO providing notice to the Participant of such limitation or revocation. 47 ICE Trade Vault
represents that if the President and General Counsel determine that revocation of access is the
result of unreasonable discrimination, the President and General Counsel will take such actions
as are necessary to restore access to such service or data. 48
D.

Use of Data

ICE Trade Vault represents that access to information it maintains as an SDR would be
limited to those with the direct responsibility for supporting the ICE Trade Vault system, its SDR
45

See id.

46

See id.

47

See Exhibit GG.2.

48

See id. Because persons applying to be SDRs are also applying to be SIPs with the
Commission, the procedures for notifying the Commission of any prohibitions or limitations of
access to services as provided in Section 11A(b)(5)(A) would apply. See SDR Adopting
Release, 80 FR at 14482 (“Rule 909 of Regulation SBSR, which the Commission is concurrently
adopting in a separate release, requires each registered SDR to register as a SIP, and, as such,
Exchange Act Section 11A(b)(5) governs denials of access to services by an SDR. This section
provides that ‘[i]f any registered securities information processor prohibits or limits any person
in respect of access to services offered, directly or indirectly, by such securities information
processor, the registered securities information processor shall promptly file notice thereof with
the Commission.’ Accordingly, an SDR must promptly notify the Commission if it prohibits or
limits access to any of its services to any person.”).

10

service, Participants and regulators. 49 ICE Trade Vault would prohibit its employees and others
performing similar functions on behalf of ICE Trade Vault from using information it maintains
as an SDR other than in the performance of their job responsibilities. 50
E.

Asset Class Accepted; Submission Requirements; Validation

ICE Trade Vault has represented that it would accept data in respect of all SBS trades in
the credit derivatives asset class. 51 ICE Trade Vault has represented that Participants would be
required to submit trade information in the data format required by ICE Trade Vault. 52 The ICE
Trade Vault system would accept tab delimited file uploads via web access and Applicable
Programming Interface submissions in FpML format. 53
Exhibit N.5 to ICE Trade Vault’s application enumerates the required fields and
acceptable values for the submission of trade information into the ICE Trade Vault system.
According to ICE Trade Vault, the ICE Trade Vault system would perform certain validations to
ensure that a submitted trade report adheres to the enumerated fields and values contained in
Exhibit N.5. 54 Under ICE Trade Vault’s policies and procedures, upon receipt of trade
information for an SBS, the ICE Trade Vault system would validate that:
a. The submission file is in a valid format for receipt and processing;

49

See Exhibits V.2 and GG.2.

50

See id.

51

See id.

52

See Exhibit GG.2.

53

See id.

54

See id.

11

b. All fields meet the required field format (e.g., number, date, date timestamp, free
form text, or standard data value);
c. All required and conditionally required fields are contained in the submission;
d. All conditionally required fields meet the validation standards; and
e. All standard data value fields are provided with an acceptable value. 55
ICE Trade Vault’s policies and procedures provide that, if the submitted trade
information fails any of the above validations, the ICE Trade Vault system would generate an
error message and give such information an “invalid” status. 56
For historical SBS reporting, ICE Trade Vault represents that the ICE Trade Vault system
would require Participants to indicate a “Y” value for “Flag for Historical Security-Based Swap
public dissemination exemption.” 57 In addition, the ICE Trade Vault system allows Participants
to submit “Y” or “N” values for a field “Flag for Historical Security-Based Swap Life Cycle
Event public dissemination” to update information in the ICE Trade Vault system associated
with such SBS. 58
ICE Trade Vault represents that it would support the reporting of highly customized and
bespoke SBS (“exotic SBS”). 59 ICE Trade Vault would require a Participant that wishes to

55

See id.

56

See id.

57

See id.

58

See id.

59

See id.

12

submit a trade report for exotic SBS to upload a file to the ICE Trade Vault system that contains
that trade information and the corresponding confirmed terms. 60
F.

Verification of Transaction Data

To fulfill its obligations under Exchange Act Rule 13n-5(b)(1), ICE Trade Vault’s
policies and procedures provide that it would require Participants to report complete and accurate
trade information and to review and resolve all error messages generated by the ICE Trade Vault
system. 61 If any trade information is found to be incorrect or incomplete, ICE Trade Vault
would require Participants to correct and resubmit such information to the ICE Trade Vault
system. 62 For SBS that are not executed on a platform, ICE Trade Vault would require the
reporting side to provide the method used to confirm the trade information (e.g., electronic
confirmation service or paper confirmation). ICE Trade Vault would further require Participants
to warrant and represent that all trade information reported to ICE Trade Vault is complete and
accurate. 63 If the counterparties to an SBS use a paper confirmation to confirm the trade, ICE
Trade Vault would require the reporting side to upload to the ICE Vault Trade system a copy of
the confirmation that was agreed upon by the counterparties. 64
According to ICE Trade Vault, clearing agencies would access ICE Trade Vault as
Participants to report SBS that have been accepted for clearing. Platforms (such as an SBS
execution facility) will access ICE Trade Vault as Participants to report the relevant data with
60

See id.

61

See id.; see also Exhibit V.2.

62

See Exhibit GG.2.

63

See id.

64

See id.

13

respect to SBS that have been executed on their respective platforms or subject to the rules of
their markets. 65
ICE Trade Vault’s policies and procedures provide that Participants would be responsible
for the timely resolution of trade record errors contained in trade information that has been
submitted to ICE Trade Vault. 66 ICE Trade Vault would provide Participants with electronic
methods to extract information maintained by ICE Trade Vault for reconciliation. 67 If the nonreporting side for an SBS transaction discovers an error contained in the trade information
submitted to ICE Trade Vault on its behalf, ICE Trade Vault requires that counterparty to notify
promptly the reporting side of such error. 68 ICE Trade Vault represents that if the reporting side
discovers an error contained in the trade information that it previously submitted to ICE Trade
Vault or receives notification from a counterparty of an error, the reporting side is required to
submit promptly to ICE Trade Vault amended trade information that remedies such error. 69 ICE
Trade Vault would disseminate a corrected transaction report in instances where the initial report
included erroneous primary trade information. 70
G.

Disputed Trade Data

Under ICE Trade Vault’s policies and procedures, Participants would be required to
notify promptly ICE Trade Vault of trade information that is disputed by the counterparties to the

65

See id.

66

See Exhibits V.2 and GG.2.

67

See id.

68

See id.

69

See id.

70

See id.

14

trade. ICE Trade Vault states that when a Participant “disputes” a trade stored in ICE Trade
Vault’s system, the status of the trade would remain “Disputed” until the party that disputed the
trade sends a message to ICE Trade Vault indicating that the dispute has been resolved. 71
H.

Application and Dissemination of Condition Flags

ICE Trade Vault represents that it would apply submitted flags to trade information that
is: (i) an error correction required to be disseminated by Rule 905(b)(2) of Regulation SBSR; or
(ii) a life cycle event, or any adjustment due to a life cycle event, required to be disseminated by
Rule 902(a) of Regulation SBSR. 72 In addition, ICE Trade Vault’s policies and procedures
require Participants of ICE Trade Vault to apply certain flags with respect to primary trade
information (i.e., flags required under Rule 901(c)(1)(v) of Regulation SBSR), 73 and ICE Trade
Vault would publicly disseminate such flags if the SBS is eligible for public dissemination. ICE
Trade Vault represents that certain flags address security-based swap characteristics that may
contribute to creating a distorted market view. 74
I.

Calculation and Maintenance of Positions

As provided in ICE Trade Vault’s policies and procedures, ICE Trade Vault states that it
would calculate open positions for persons with open SBS for which ICE Trade Vault maintains
records. 75 ICE Trade Vault’s policies and procedures relating to its calculation of positions are
provided in Exhibit GG.2.
71

See id.

72

See Exhibit GG.2.

73

See 17 CFR 240.901(c)(i)(v).

74

See Exhibit GG.2.

75

See id.

15

J.

Assignment of Unique Identification Codes

ICE Trade Vault’s policies and procedures include the methodology ICE Trade Vault
would utilize in connection with its assignment of unique identification codes (“UICs”) in
accordance with Rule 903 of Regulation SBSR. 76 In particular, ICE Trade Vault represents that
it would assign UICs as follows:
1. Any SEC endorsed standard will be used, or in its absence;
2. Any CPMI-IOSCO endorsed standard will be used, or in its absence;
3. Any industry endorsed standard will be used, or in its absence;
4. ICE Trade Vault will generate an ID for the applicable UIC. 77
K.

Transaction ID Methodology

ICE Trade Vault represents that it has “endorsed” a transaction ID methodology as
follows:
1. If a transaction is executed on a platform, that platform would generate the
transaction ID.
2. If a transaction is cleared, the clearing agency would generate the transaction IDs for
resulting cleared SBS.
3. If the transaction is executed off-platform and is not cleared, the parties must
mutually agree which side of the trade will generate the transaction ID. When the
transaction ID generator is the reporting side, that party may request that ICE Trade
Vault generate the transaction ID on its behalf.

76

See id.

77

See id.

16

4. For historical SBS that have been reported in another jurisdiction, the transaction ID
assigned in that jurisdiction will be used for reporting.
5. For historical SBS that have not been reported in another jurisdiction, the
methodology described in items 1-3 above will apply.
6. A multi-jurisdictional transaction should never have multiple transaction IDs. 78
L.

Ultimate Parent and Affiliate Information

ICE Trade Vault’s policies and procedures provide that Participants, except for those that
are platforms or clearing agencies, would be required to provide ICE Trade Vault information
(e.g., parent IDs and counterparty IDs) to identify their ultimate parent(s) and affiliates. 79 In
addition, ICE Trade Vault requires that Participants promptly notify ICE Trade Vault of any
changes to such information. 80
M.

Branch and Trading Desk ID

Under ICE Trade Vault’s policies and procedures, in order to receive a branch ID or
trading desk ID from ICE Trade Vault, Participants must submit the branch and desk information
to ICE Trade Vault before reporting an SBS. 81 More information concerning branch ID and
trading desk ID is contained in Exhibit GG.2.

78

See id.

79

See id.

80

See id.; see also Exhibit U.5 (ICE Trade Vault Ultimate Parent & Affiliate Information
Notification).
81

See Exhibit GG.2.

17

N.

Product ID

ICE Trade Vault states that it would issue product IDs and maintain reference data
representation for SBS that will include schema definitions and will be made publicly available
on a non-fee basis on ICE Trade Vault’s internet website (www.icetradevault.com). 82 According
to ICE Trade Vault, if the industry creates and adopts a product ID taxonomy and registry, ICE
Trade Vault would comply with the published standard at such time. 83 ICE Trade Vault has
represented that it would create product IDs based on an industry accepted UPI taxonomy or,
where not available, its own product taxonomy. 84
ICE Trade Vault would require its Participants to notify ICE Trade Vault of any new SBS
products they intend to report to ICE Trade Vault by submitting the relevant product information
to: ICETradeVaultSupport@theice.com. 85 A complete list of available product information
would be made available via a link on ICE Trade Vault’s internet website. 86
O.

Missing UIC Information

ICE Trade Vault’s policies and procedures provide that the reporting side to an SBS may
report the non-reporting side’s UIC information (other than counterparty ID) but is not required
to do so. 87 ICE Trade Vault’s policies and procedures provide that, if the non-reporting side is
not a Participant, the non-reporting side “should contact ICE Trade Vault” via electronic mail to
82

See id.

83

See id.

84

See id.

85

See id.

86

See id.

87

See id.; see also Exhibit GG.2 (Guidebook, section 6.2 requirements relating to
counterparty IDs, execution agent IDs and broker IDs).

18

register for access to ICE Trade Vault and its trade information. ICE Trade Vault represents that
it would identify in its records any SBS reported to it for which it does not have required UIC
information. 88
According to ICE Trade Vault, once a day, ICE Trade Vault would send a report to each
Participant that is a counterparty to an SBS(s) that lacks required UIC information. 89 ICE Trade
Vault represents in its policies and procedures that a Participant that receives a report must
provide the missing information with respect to its side of each SBS referenced in the report to
ICE Trade Vault within 24 hours. 90
P.

Public Dissemination

ICE Trade Vault represents that it would publicly disseminate information required for
public dissemination pursuant to Regulation SBSR, including SBS transaction reports, which
contain all of the primary transaction information, and information regarding life cycle events or
adjustments due to a life cycle event. 91 In addition, ICE Trade Vault would provide the public,
Participants and regulators with the ability to download historical data. 92
Q.

Safeguarding Data, Operational Reliability, and Emergency Authority

ICE Trade Vault represents that it has implemented systems and procedures to allow for
timely resumption of key business processes and operations following unplanned interruptions,
unavailability of staff, inaccessibility of facilities, and disruption or disastrous loss to one or
88

See id.

89

See id.

90

See id.

91

See id.

92

See id.

19

more of ICE Trade Vault’s facilities or services. 93 ICE Trade Vault represents that its SDR
service data is saved to a redundant, local database and a remote disaster recovery database in
near real-time and that its SDR service database is backed up to tape daily with tapes moved
offsite weekly. 94 ICE Trade Vault also states that Participants’ individual trade data records
remain available to Participants and regulators at no charge for online access through its SDR
service from the date of submission until five years after expiration of the trade (last day of
delivery or settlement as defined for each product). 95 According to ICE Trade Vault, after the
initial five-year period, Participants’ trade data will be stored off-line and remain available to
Participants and regulators, upon a three-day advance request to ICE Trade Vault, until ten years
from the termination date. 96 ICE Trade Vault also states that Participants will retain unimpaired
access to its online and archived trade data. 97
ICE Trade Vault represents that it maintains and will continue to maintain a robust
emergency and business-continuity and disaster recovery plan (“Business Continuity Plan”) that
allows for timely resumption of key business processes and operations following unplanned
interruptions, unavailability of staff, inaccessibility of facilities, and disruption or disastrous loss
to one or more of ICE Trade Vault's facilities or services. 98 ICE Trade Vault represents that its
Business Continuity Plan requires that all production system hardware and software is replicated

93

See id.

94

See Exhibits V.2 and GG.2.

95

See id.

96

See Exhibit V.2.

97

See Exhibits V.2 and GG.2.

98

See id.

20

in near real-time at a geographical- and vendor-diverse disaster recovery site to avoid any loss of
data. 99
ICE Trade Vault represents that it is authorized to determine, in its sole discretion,
whether an emergency exists with respect to, or otherwise threatens, its system or its SDR
service (an “Emergency”) and whether emergency action is warranted to mitigate such
circumstances, but that it may also exercise emergency authority if ordered to do so by the
Commission or other regulatory agency of competent jurisdiction. 100 Circumstances requiring
the invocation of emergency authority pursuant to ICE Trade Vault’s policies and procedures
include: (i) any occurrence or circumstance that ICE Trade Vault determines to constitute an
Emergency; (ii) any “Physical Emergency” (such as a fire or other casualty, bomb threats,
terrorist acts, substantial inclement weather, power failures, communications breakdowns,
computer system breakdowns, or transportation breakdowns); (iii) any occurrence or
circumstance that threatens or may threaten the proper functionality of ICE Trade Vault’s system
or its SDR service; (iv) any occurrence or circumstance that may materially affect the
performance of its system or its SDR service; (v) any action taken by any governmental body or
any regulator that may have a direct impact on its system or its SDR service; and (vi) any other
circumstance that may impact ICE Trade Vault, its system or its SDR service in a materially
adverse manner. 101
Under ICE Trade Vault’s policies and procedures, if the President of ICE Trade Vault, or
any individual designated by the President or the Board of Directors, determines that an
99

See id.

100

See Exhibit GG.2.

101

See id.

21

Emergency is likely to arise or has arisen, the President or such designee, as the case may be,
may, consistent with ICE Trade Vault’s conflict of interest policies, declare an Emergency with
respect to its system, its SDR service or the facilities of ICE Trade Vault and take or place into
immediate effect a temporary emergency action or protocol. 102 ICE Trade Vault represents that
any such action or protocol may remain in effect for up to 30 business days, after which time,
and for each 30-business day period thereafter, it must be reissued by the Board of Directors to
remain in effect. 103 Under ICE Trade Vault’s policies and procedures, the CCO would be
consulted in the event any emergency action or protocol may raise potential conflicts of
interest. 104
ICE Trade Vault represents that any such action or protocol may provide for, or may
authorize ICE Trade Vault, the Board of Directors or any committee thereof to undertake,
actions deemed necessary or appropriate by the President or its designee to respond to the
Emergency, including, but not limited to, the following: modifying or suspending any relevant
provision of the Guidebook; changing the operating hours of its SDR service; temporarily
limiting or denying access to its system or its SDR service; or requiring re-submission of any
data lost or otherwise affected due to such Emergency. 105 Any such action placed into effect in
accordance with the preceding paragraph may be reviewed by the Board of Directors at any time
and may be revoked, suspended or modified by the Board of Directors. 106 ICE Trade Vault
102

See id.

103

See id.

104

See id.

105

See id.

106

See id.

22

represents that it will notify the SEC as soon as is reasonably practicable of ICE Trade Vault's
invocation of its emergency authority, any material business disruption, or any threat that
actually or potentially jeopardizes automated system capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability or
security, 107 with the decision-making process with respect to, and the reasons for, any such
action recorded in writing 108 and with ICE Trade Vault notifying Participants via email as soon
as practicable of any action taken (time permitting), or proposed to be taken. 109
R.

Data Confidentiality; Sensitive Information and Security

ICE Trade Vault represents that it “recognizes its responsibility to ensure data
confidentiality and [that it] dedicates significant resources” to information security to prevent the
misappropriation or misuse of confidential information, and that it does not, as a condition of
accepting SBS data from Participants, require the waiver of any privacy rights by such
Participants. 110 ICE Trade Vault would use a multi-tiered firewall scheme to provide network
segmentation and access control to its services. 111 A second set of firewalls would further isolate
ICE Trade Vault’s systems and provide added security to detect any threats. 112 In addition,
network sensors would analyze all internet and private line traffic for malicious patterns. 113

107

See Exhibits V.2 and GG.2.

108

See Exhibit GG.2.

109

See id.

110

See id.

111

See id.

112

See Exhibits V.2 and GG.2.

113

See id.

23

ICE Trade Vault’s application states that certain controls would be regularly examined
and tested by multiple tiers of internal and external test groups, auditors and independently
contracted third-party security testing firms. 114 In addition, ICE Trade Vault has represented that
it would undertake an audit for adherence to its data security policies on at least an annual
basis. 115
IV.

Solicitation of Comments
Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning

ICE Trade Vault’s Form SDR, including whether ICE Trade Vault has satisfied the requirements
for registration as an SDR. To the extent possible, commenters are requested to provide
empirical data and other factual support for their views. In addition, the Commission seeks
comment on the following issues:
1. Please provide your views as to whether ICE Trade Vault’s application for registration as
an SDR demonstrates that ICE Trade Vault is so organized, and has the capacity, to be
able to assure the prompt, accurate, and reliable performance of its functions as an SDR,
comply with any applicable provisions of the securities laws and the rules and regulations
thereunder, and carry out its functions in a manner consistent with the purposes of
Section 13(n) of the Exchange Act and Commission’s SDR rules.
2. Exchange Act Rule 13n-5(b)(1)(iii) requires every SDR to establish, maintain, and
enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to satisfy itself that the
transaction data that has been submitted to the SDR is complete and accurate. Please
provide your views as to whether ICE Trade Vault’s policies and procedures concerning
114

See id.

115

See id.

24

verification of trade data are sufficiently detailed and reasonably designed to satisfy ICE
Trade Vault that the transaction data that has been submitted to ICE Trade Vault is
complete and accurate, as required by Rule 13n-5(b)(1)(iii).
3. Please provide your views as to whether ICE Trade Vault’s policies and procedures to
address confirmation of data accuracy and completeness for bespoke, bilateral SBS
transactions (i.e., requiring the reporting side of the transaction to identify the method
used to confirm the trade information, either by use of an electronic confirmation service
or by paper confirmation agreed upon by the counterparties) are appropriate and
reasonably designed to meet its obligations under the Rule 13n-5(b)(1)(iii). In this
regard, the Commission is also interested in receiving comments as to whether ICE Trade
Vault’s definition of “confirmed” as contained in its Guidebook (Exhibit GG.2) is
appropriate.
4. Please provide your views as to whether ICE Trade Vault’s policies and procedures
relating to invalidly entered UICs being subject to an error message and an “invalid”
status as noted in Exhibit GG.2 are sufficiently detailed to meet the objectives of
Exchange Act Rule 13n-5(b)(1)(iii).
5. Please provide your views as to whether ICE Trade Vault’s policies and procedures are
sufficiently detailed and reasonably designed to ensure that the transaction data and
positions that it maintains are complete and accurate, as required by Exchange Act Rule
13n-5(b)(3).
6. Please provide your views as to whether ICE Trade Vault’s policies and procedures are
sufficiently detailed and reasonably designed to ensure that it has the ability to protect the

25

privacy of SBS transaction information that it receives, as required by Exchange Act Rule
13n-9.
7. Please provide your views as to whether ICE Trade Vault’s policies and procedures are
sufficiently detailed and reasonably designed to ensure that it has the ability to calculate
positions, as required by Exchange Act Rule 13n-5(b)(2).
8. Please provide your views as to whether ICE Trade Vault’s policies and procedures are
sufficiently detailed and reasonably designed to provide a mechanism for Participants and
their counterparties to effectively resolve disputes over the accuracy of SBS data that it
maintains, as required by Exchange Act Rule 13n-5(b)(6). Are ICE Trade Vault’s
policies and procedures relating to dispute resolution adequate? Why or why not?
Should the policies and procedures specify timeframes in the dispute resolution process
to facilitate timely and conclusive resolution of disputes? Why or why not?
9. Please provide your views as to whether ICE Trade Vault’s policies and procedures are
sufficiently detailed and reasonably designed to ensure that its systems that support or are
integrally related to the performance of its activities provides adequate levels of capacity,
integrity, resiliency, availability and security, as required by Exchange Act Rule 13n-6.
10. Please provide your views as to whether the disclosures in ICE Trade Vault’s Disclosure
Document to a Participant prior to accepting any SBS data from that Participant or upon
the Participant’s request, as required by Exchange Act Rule 13n-10, are adequate.
Specifically, the Commission is interested in receiving comments as to whether ICE
Trade Vault’s Disclosure Document contains adequate and sufficiently detailed
information that would reasonably enable the Participant to identify and evaluate
accurately the risks and costs associated with using ICE Trade Vault’s services. Such

26

information includes ICE Trade Vault’s criteria for providing others with access to its
services and data it maintains, its criteria for those seeking to connect to or link with it, its
description of its policies and procedures regarding its noncommercial and/or commercial
use of the SBS transaction information that it receives from a Participant, any registered
entity, or any other person, its description of all the SBS data repository’s services,
including any ancillary services, and its description of its governance arrangements.
11. Please provide your views as to whether ICE Trade Vault’s policies and procedures are
sufficiently detailed and reasonably designed for the CCO’s handling, management
response, remediation, retesting, and closing of noncompliance issues, as required by
Exchange Act Rule 13n-11(c)(7).
12. Please provide your views as to whether ICE Trade Vault’s policies or procedures could
result in an unreasonable restraint of trade or impose any material anticompetitive burden
on the trading, clearing, or reporting of transactions.
13. Please provide your views as to whether ICE Trade Vault’s proposed dues, fees, or other
charges, discounts or rebates and the process for setting dues, fees, or other charges,
discounts or rebates are fair and reasonable and not unreasonably discriminatory. Please
address whether such proposed dues, fees, other charges, discounts, or rebates are applied
consistently across all similarly situated users of ICE Trade Vault’s services, including,
but not limited to, Participants, market infrastructures (including central counterparties),
venues from which data can be submitted to ICE Trade Vault (including exchanges, SBS
execution facilities, electronic trading venues, and matching and confirmation platforms),
and third party service providers.

27

14. Exchange Act Rule 13n-4(c)(2)(ii)—(iii) provides that each SDR must establish
governance arrangements that provide for fair representation of market participants, and
must provide representatives of market participants, including end-users, with the
opportunity to participate in the process for nominating directors and with the right to
petition for alternative candidates. Please provide your views as to whether ICE Trade
Vault’s governance structure provides fair representation and an opportunity for
participation by market participants pursuant to Rule 13n-4(c)(2)(ii)—(iii).
15. Rule 903(a) of Regulation SBSR provides, in relevant part, that if no system has been
recognized by the Commission, or a recognized system has not assigned a UIC to a
particular person, unit of a person, or product, the registered SDR shall assign a UIC to
that person, unit of person, or product using its own methodology. Is the methodology
that ICE Trade Vault proposes to use to assign UICs as described in its application
materials appropriate in light of the requirements under Rule 903(a) of Regulation SBSR?
Why or why not?
16. Rule 907(c) of Regulation SBSR requires a registered SDR to make its Regulation SBSR
policies and procedures publicly available on its website. The Commission has stated
that this public availability requirement will allow all interested parties to understand how
the registered SDR is utilizing the flexibility it has in operating the transaction reporting
and dissemination system, and will provide an opportunity for Participants to make
suggestions to the registered SDR for altering and improving those policies and
procedures, in light of the new products or circumstances, consistent with the principles

28

set out in Regulation SBSR. 116 ICE Trade Vault has proposed to satisfy its obligation
under Rule 907(c) of Regulation SBSR by making the policies and procedures contained
in Exhibit GG.2 and the other application exhibits referenced therein available on its
public website. Is the information that is included in or referenced in Exhibit GG.2
appropriate in light of the requirements of Rule 907(c)?
17. For certain data fields, Exhibit N.5 indicates that the acceptable data format is the
“standard data value” for the field, but Exhibit N.5 does not provide more specific
information regarding acceptable data formats for such fields. ICE Trade Vault has
indicated to Commission staff that it plans to make available to its Participants detailed
specifications for reporting SBS information, and Participants will be permitted to
download detailed descriptions of the acceptable data format for each “standard data
value” from the ICE Trade Vault system. However, ICE Trade Vault stated in its
discussions with Commission staff that it will make such additional specifications
available only to Participants who have executed a Participant Agreement. Is it
anticipated to be problematic for persons seeking to report SBS information to an SDR to
be required to execute a Participant Agreement as a condition to ICE Trade Vault
providing access to the additional data format specifications?
18. Regulation SBSR imposes duties on various market Participants to report SBS
transaction information to a registered SDR. Please provide your views as to whether the
ICE Trade Vault application and the associated policies and procedures (including
technical specifications for submission of data) provide sufficient information to potential

116

See Regulation SBSR Adopting Release, 80 FR at 14648.

29

Participants about how they would discharge these regulatory duties when reporting to
ICE Trade Vault. In particular, please provide your views as to whether ICE Trade
Vault’s technical specifications for submission of data are sufficiently detailed, especially
with regard to historical SBSs and bespoke SBS. Please describe in detail what
additional information you believe is necessary to allow you to satisfy any reporting
obligation you may incur under Regulation SBSR.
19. Rule 906(a) of Regulation SBSR provides, in relevant part, that a Participant of the
registered SDR must provide the missing information with respect to its side of each SBS
referenced in the report to the registered SDR within 24 hours. ICE Trade Vault has
represented that a non-reporting-side participant must be fully onboarded before it may
submit information that it is required to provide to a registered SDR by Rule 906(a) of
Regulation SBSR. Please provide your views as to whether this form of access afforded
to the non-reporting-side is fair, open, and not unreasonably discriminatory.
20. Please provide your views as to whether ICE Trade Vault’s policies and procedures
relating to Rule 906(a) are sufficiently detailed, appropriate and reasonably designed to
ensure data accuracy and completeness.
21. Please provide your views as to whether ICE Trade Vault has provided sufficient
information to explain the SBS transaction information that it would publicly disseminate
to discharge its duties under Rule 902 of Regulation SBSR. Please describe any
additional information that you feel is necessary. Please offer any suggestions generally
for how the publicly disseminated information could be made more useful.
22. Please provide your views as to whether ICE Trade Vault has provided sufficient
information to explain how Participants would be required to report life cycle events

30

under Rule 901(e). Please describe any additional information that you feel is necessary.
In particular, please indicate whether you believe ICE Trade Vault’s specifications are
reasonably designed to identify the specific data element(s) that change and thus that
trigger the report of the life cycle event.
23. Please provide your views as to whether ICE Trade Vault has provided sufficient
information about how an agent could report SBS transaction information to ICE Trade
Vault on behalf of a principal (i.e., a person who has a duty under Regulation SBSR to
report). Please describe any additional information that is necessary. In particular, please
provide your views as to whether ICE Trade Vault should differentiate between agents
who are Participants of ICE Trade Vault because they themselves at times are principals
(i.e., they are counterparties to one or more SBSs that are reported to ICE Trade Vault on
a mandatory basis) and agents who are never principals (e.g., a vendor).
24. Please provide your views as to whether ICE Trade Vault’s policies and procedures for
developing condition flags for transactions having special characteristics under Rule
907(a)(4) of Regulation SBSR are consistent with the goal of preventing market
participants without knowledge of these characteristics receiving a distorted view of the
market. Are there additional condition flags that you believe ICE Trade Vault should
utilize? If so, please describe them and why you believe they are appropriate.
Comments may be submitted by any of the following methods:
Electronic comments:
•

Use the Commission’s Internet comment form
(http://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed.shtml); or

31

•

Send an e-mail to rule-comments@sec.gov. Please include File Number SBSDR-201601 on the subject line.

Paper comments:
•

Send paper comments to Brent J. Fields, Secretary, Securities and Exchange
Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549-1090. All submissions should
refer to File Number SBSDR-2016-01.
To help the Commission process and review your comments more efficiently, please use

only one method of submission. The Commission will post all comments on the Commission’s
Internet website (http://www.sec.gov/rules/other.shtml).
Copies of the Form SDR, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect
to the Form SDR that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to
the Form SDR between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld
from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for website
viewing and printing in the Commission’s Public Reference Section, 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, DC 20549, on official business days between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m.
All comments received will be posted without change; the Commission does not edit
personal identifying information from submissions. You should submit only information that you
wish to make available publicly. All submissions should refer to File Number SBSDR-2016-01
and should be submitted on or before [INSERT DATE 30 DAYS FROM THE DATE OF
PUBLICATION IN THE FEDERAL REGISTER].
By the Commission.
Brent J. Fields
Secretary

32

