SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 70148 / August 8, 2013
Report of Investigation Pursuant to Section 21(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934:
Eurex Deutschland
I.

Introduction

The United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it
appropriate and in the public interest to issue this Report of Investigation (“Report”) pursuant to
Section 21(a) of the Securities Exchange Act 1 (“Exchange Act”) to highlight the risks that
exchanges and investment professionals undertake when they operate without the appropriate
compliance measures in place to monitor the composition of indices on which financial
instruments are offered to ensure that they are in compliance with the federal securities laws.
Exchanges and investment professionals should take the appropriate steps to verify that they are
in compliance with the federal securities laws, which could include establishing policies and
procedures to appropriately monitor the composition of indices on which futures are based to
determine if they are offering security futures products. This Report also serves to highlight
analogous situations involving swaps, and reminds investment professionals who engage in swap
transactions of their responsibility to ascertain the characteristics of such swaps to ensure that,
for those that are securities, the investment professional is appropriately offering the securities to
persons in the United States, and otherwise complying with all applicable federal securities law
requirements.
Eurex, a foreign derivatives exchange headquartered in Frankfurt, Germany, self-reported
to the Commission and Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) staff that it had been
offering and selling contracts to persons in the U.S. on a non-narrow based index that had shifted
to security futures on a narrow-based security index for approximately 18 months without
complying with the applicable registration requirements prescribed by the federal securities
laws. 2 The Division of Enforcement has investigated whether Eurex violated the federal
securities laws by effecting transactions in the U.S. in security futures contracts that were not
listed on a national securities exchange or a national securities association, and whether Eurex
improperly offered and sold the security futures contracts while there was no registration

1

Section 21(a) of the Exchange Act authorizes the Commission to investigate violations of the federal securities
laws and, in its discretion, to “publish information concerning any such violations.” Eurex Deutschland (“Eurex”)
has consented to the issuance of this Report without admitting or denying any of the statements or conclusions
herein. This Report does not constitute an adjudication of any fact or issue addressed herein. In addition, the
statements and conclusions in this Report do not represent determinations by the Commission with respect to any
persons or entities other than Eurex.

2

Eurex self-reported the conduct to the Commission and CFTC staff on October 21, 2011 after discovering the
issue.

statement in effect or where there was no available exemption from registration under the
Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”). 3
II.

Facts
A.

Structure and Organization of Eurex Deutschland

Eurex is a derivatives exchange located in Frankfurt, Germany, which lists futures
contracts and options on futures based on interest rates, volatility indexes, broad-based security
indexes, inflation rates, and commodities. Eurex is operated by Eurex Frankfurt AG and clears
its transactions through Eurex Clearing AG, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Eurex Frankfurt AG.
Eurex is regulated and subject to market surveillance by German regulatory agencies, including
the Exchange Supervisory Authority in the State of Hesse, where Eurex is located, and by the
German Federal Financial Supervisory Agency (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht)
(the “BaFin”).
Eurex operates through an all-electronic trading platform, with members connected to
Eurex via a dedicated communications network from hundreds of locations worldwide. Firms
located in the United States who are members of Eurex have been able to access Eurex’s trading
platform directly from trading terminals in the United States since 1996 with respect to futures
and options on futures contracts under conditions set forth by the CFTC.
Eurex membership is offered to financial institutions, financial services institutions and
credit institutions across the world, provided certain conditions are met. Eurex does not offer
membership to individuals. Persons in the United States may obtain direct market access to
Eurex through a U.S. financial institution 4 that is a Eurex member, with respect to futures and
options on futures contracts under conditions set forth by the CFTC. Persons in the United
States also may send orders to Eurex through international Eurex members who are futures
commission merchants (“FCMs”) or exempt from FCM registration. 5
B.

The EURO STOXX Banks Index

Eurex initially offered futures on the EURO STOXX Banks Index (“Index”) for trading
on March 19, 2001. On April 2, 2002, the staff of the CFTC issued a no-action letter in
connection with Eurex’s request to offer and sell futures on the Index in the U.S. from Eurex
3

The Commission notes that, although the registration issues highlighted in this Report relate to Eurex, a foreign
exchange, similar issues could arise if a U.S. futures exchange were to offer or sell security futures on a broad-based
index that shifted to a narrow-based index.
4

To the extent a financial institution effected transactions in the United States through Eurex in futures on the
EURO STOXX Banks Index once the futures on the Index became a security futures product, the financial
institution would have needed to ensure that it was registered with the Commission as a broker-dealer or otherwise
could rely on a specific exclusion or exemption from registration.
5

A futures commission merchant is an individual who, or organization that, solicits or accepts orders to buy or sell
futures contracts or options on futures contracts and accepts money or other assets from customers in connection
with such orders. An FCM must be registered with the CFTC.

terminals located in the United States, 6 based in part on the fact that Eurex represented that the
Index was a broad-based security index. 7
According to Eurex, as of October 10, 2001, the Index consisted of stocks from 44 issuers
in ten European countries, including Italy, Greece, Spain, Germany, Belgium, France, Ireland,
Portugal, Austria, and the Netherlands. Eurex represented to the CFTC staff in its request for noaction relief that, as of October 10, 2001, no single stock in the Index represented more than
10.7% of the Index, and the five most heavily weighted stocks in the Index represented 48.3% of
the Index. The CFTC staff concluded that the Index complied with the relevant sections of the
CEA, including that it was a broad-based security index, and determined that it would not
recommend an enforcement action if futures contracts based on the Index were offered or sold in
the United States. 8 As a future on a broad-based security index, the future was subject to the
exclusive jurisdiction of the CFTC. According to Eurex, from at least April 2, 2002 through
October 21, 2011, Eurex offered and sold security futures on the Index in the U.S. through direct
market access and other methods.
C.

Discovery of the Conduct Leading to the Self-Report

In September 2011, the CFTC adopted new procedures requiring markets with existing
CFTC no-action letters to certify that they remained in compliance with the guidance set forth in
those no-action letters. In connection with CFTC’s new procedures, Eurex conducted a review
of the Index and discovered that the Index no longer qualified as a broad-based security index.
In fact, Eurex discovered that the Index had not been a broad-based security index for
approximately eighteen months.
Eurex’s review revealed that the Index first assumed a characteristic that would, but for
the statutory tolerance and grace periods, render it a narrow-based security index in January
2010, because the five highest weighted component securities in the Index exceeded 60% of the
Index’s weighting. Following a three month grace period, the Index transitioned from a broadbased to a narrow-based security index, and futures on the Index became subject to joint CFTC
and Commission jurisdiction. Further, futures on the Index became subject to registration and
regulatory requirements under the federal securities laws with which Eurex did not comply. 9
6

CFTC Staff Letter No. 02-38 (April 2, 2002).

7

Section 1a(35) of the Commodity Exchange Act (“CEA”) and Section 3(a)(55)(B) of the Exchange Act.

8

CFTC Staff Letter No. 02-38 (April 2, 2002).

9

In this regard, the Commission notes that Congress provided in the definition of the term “narrow-based security
index” in both the CEA and the Exchange Act for a tolerance period ensuring that, under certain conditions, a
futures contract on a security index traded on a designated contract market (“DCM”) may continue to trade, even
when the index temporarily assumes characteristics that would render it a narrow-based security index under the
statutory definition. See CEA section 1a(35)(B)(iii), 7 U.S.C. 1a(35)(B)(iii); section 3(a)(55)(C)(iii) of the
Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(55)(C)(iii). In general, an index is subject to this tolerance period, and therefore is
not a narrow-based security index, if: (i) a futures contract on the index traded on a DCM for at least 30 days as a
futures contract on a broad-based security index before the index assumed the characteristics of a narrow-based
security index; and (ii) the index does not retain the characteristics of a narrow-based security index for more than
45 business days over 3 consecutive calendar months. Pursuant to these statutory provisions, if the index becomes

From on or about April 2010 through October 2011, after the Index transitioned to a
narrow-based security index, Eurex sold 6 million future contracts worldwide on the Index
through approximately 79 foreign-based intermediaries and direct market access trading
terminals in the United States. During the same period of time, other orders were facilitated
through omnibus customer accounts carried by foreign-based intermediaries on behalf of persons
in the U.S. Eurex allowed persons to directly access its market using means or instrumentalities
of interstate commerce to effect transactions in security futures through trading terminals located
in the U.S. This practice resulted in the sale of approximately 120,000 security futures to
persons in the U.S.
Based on its investigation, the staff has determined that Eurex did not comply with the
federal securities laws by effecting transactions in the U.S. in security futures: (1) that were not
listed on a national securities exchange or national securities association; 10 and (2) without
registering as a national securities exchange. 11 In addition, Eurex offered and sold security
futures in the U.S without registering the transactions and without having a valid exemption from
registration for the transactions as required by Section 5 of the Securities Act. 12
However, due, in part, to its substantial cooperation and remedial efforts, the Commission
is not bringing an enforcement action against Eurex. Eurex self-reported the findings of its
review to the Commission and CFTC staff on October 21, 2011, and has been in continuous and
close contact with the staff, providing updates and documents on a voluntary basis to the staff.
Eurex also obtained additional information from its customers and has been cooperative in
providing documents and information to the BaFin for production to the staff.
III.

The Relevant Provisions of the Federal Securities Laws

We wish to highlight the relevant provisions of the Exchange Act and Securities Act that
were at issue in this investigation. Enforcement actions infrequently involve the application of
the Securities Act and Exchange Act to derivative contracts and other less-traditional financial
instruments, and an expanded discussion of the relevant provisions in this investigation may
assist exchanges and investment professionals in determining whether they are appropriately
offering securities to persons in the United States.
A. Section 6(h)(1) of the Exchange Act

narrow-based for more than 45 business days over 3 consecutive calendar months, the index is excluded from the
definition of the term “narrow-based security index” for the following 3 calendar months as a grace period.
10

Section 6(h)(1) of the Exchange Act states that “it shall be unlawful for any person to effect transactions in
security futures products that are not listed on a national securities exchange or a national securities association
registered pursuant to section 15A(a).”

11

Section 5 of the Exchange Act.

12

Section 5 of the Securities Act.

Section 6(h)(1) of the Exchange Act prohibits any person from effecting any transaction
in security futures products that are not listed on a national securities exchange registered
pursuant to Section 6 of the Exchange Act or a national securities association registered pursuant
to Section 15A of the Exchange Act. It is important that a security futures product be traded on a
national securities exchange pursuant to Section 6(h) of the Exchange Act to ensure that the
product meets a national securities exchange’s listing standards and that the trading of the
product is subject to both such exchange’s and the Commission’s oversight. Section 3(a)(55)(A)
of the Exchange Act defines a security future to mean a contract of sale for future delivery of a
single security or of a narrow-based security index, including any interest therein or based on the
value thereof, except an exempted security under Section 3(a)(12).
More specifically, Section 3(a)(55)(B) provides that a “narrow-based security index” is
an index:
i. that has 9 or fewer component securities;
ii. in which a component security comprises no more than 30 percent of the index’s
weighting;
iii. in which the five highest weighted component securities in the aggregate
comprise more than 60 percent of the index’s weighting; or
iv. in which the lowest weighted component securities comprising, in the aggregate,
25 percent of the index’s weighting have an aggregate dollar value of average
daily trading volume of less than $50 million (or in the case of an index with 15
or more component securities, $30 million), except that if there are two or more
securities with equal weighting that could be included in the calculation of the
lowest weighted component securities comprising, in the aggregate, 25 percent
of the index’s weighting, such securities shall be ranked from lowest to highest
dollar value of average daily trading volume and shall be included in the
calculation based on their ranking starting with the lowest ranked security.
Based on the information obtained during the investigation, the staff has determined that
Eurex did not comply with Section 6(h)(1) of the Exchange Act when Eurex effected
transactions in the U.S. in security futures products that were not listed on a national securities
exchange or a national securities association. According to Eurex, as of June 2009, the five
highest weighted component securities in the Index, in the aggregate, comprised more than 60
percent of the Index’s weighting. By April 2010, after the expiration of the applicable tolerance
period and grace period, the Index transitioned to a narrow-based security index and futures on

the Index became security futures, 13 subject to registration and regulatory requirements with
which Eurex did not comply. 14
B. Section 5 of the Exchange Act
Section 5 of the Exchange Act makes it unlawful for any broker, dealer, or exchange to
effect any transaction in a security, or to report any such transaction, unless such exchange is
registered as a national securities exchange under Section 6 of the Exchange Act or is exempted
from such registration. Section 3(a)(1) of the Exchange Act defines an “exchange” to mean “any
organization, association, or group of persons...which constitutes, maintains, or provides a
market place or facilities for bringing together purchasers and sellers of securities....” The
Commission has stated that “an exchange or contract market would be required to register under
Section 5 of the Exchange Act if it provides direct electronic access to persons located in the
U.S.” 15 An entity’s registration as a national securities exchange pursuant to the requirements of
Section 5 of the Exchange Act is important because a national securities exchange acts as a selfregulatory organization responsible for overseeing trading on its market and its members’
compliance with applicable statutory and regulatory provisions. Further, as a national securities
exchange, it is subject to Commission oversight of, among others, its rules, disciplinary actions,
and books and records.
Eurex regularly and consistently offered and sold security futures on the Index in the U.S.
through direct market access. Eurex should have registered as a national securities exchange
with, or been exempted from such registration by, the Commission before providing direct
market access to effect transactions in security futures products on the Index to persons in the
U.S. Accordingly, Eurex did not comply with Section 5 of the Exchange Act.
C. Section 5 of the Securities Act
Section 5(a) of the Securities Act provides that, unless a registration statement is in effect
as to a security, it is unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, to engage in the unregistered
offer or sale of securities in interstate commerce. Section 5(c) of the Securities Act provides a
similar prohibition against offers to sell, or offers to buy, unless a registration statement has been

13

As noted in footnote 9 above, the CEA and the Exchange Act provide for a grace period within which a futures
contract on a broad-based security index may continue to trade, even when the index temporarily assumes
characteristics that would render it a narrow-based security index under the statutory definition. See CEA section
1a(35)(B)(iii), 7 U.S.C. 1a(35)(B)(iii); section 3(a)(55)(C)(iii) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(55)(C)(iii). In
this instance, the Index assumed the characteristics of a narrow-based security index in June 2009, and later
transitioned to a narrow-based security index after the expiration of the applicable grace period. See id.
14

Persons effecting transactions in security futures for persons or accounts in the U.S. are required to register with
the Commission as a broker-dealer pursuant to the process set forth under Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act. To
the extent Eurex or any other person facilitated or effected transactions in security futures for persons or accounts in
the U.S., unless an exemption or exclusion were applicable, registration as a broker-dealer would have been
required.
15

Securities Exchange Act Release No. 60194 (June 30, 2009), 74 FR 32200 (July 7, 2009).

filed. Thus, both Sections 5(a) and 5(c) of the Securities Act prohibit the unregistered offer or
sale of securities in interstate commerce, unless the offerings are exempt.
The Securities Act includes a statutory exemption in Section 3(a)(14) from all provisions
of the Securities Act, other than Section 17(a) anti-fraud provisions, for security futures that are
cleared by a U.S.-registered or exempt clearing agency and traded on a national securities
exchange. 16 The statutory exemption for security futures was not available for the particular
security futures involved because the conditions of the exemption were not met – the security
futures were not traded on a national securities exchange and cleared by a U.S.-registered or
exempt clearing agency. As a result, Eurex was required to comply with Section 5 of the
Securities Act with respect to the offer and sale of the security futures. Based on the information
obtained by the staff, Eurex did not comply with Section 5 of the Securities Act. The contracts
on the Index were securities from the time the Index transitioned from a broad-based index to a
narrow-based index. Eurex offered and sold the securities to customers through means of
interstate commerce without registration or a valid exemption from registration.
Because Eurex was not able to rely on the statutory exemption for security futures and
did not register the security futures at issue under the Securities Act, certain disclosures under the
Securities Act were not available to investors. For example, if Eurex had registered the security
futures at issue under the Securities Act, it would have filed a registration statement with the
Commission covering the offer and sale of the security futures that would disclose to investors
information about the security futures and about the clearing agency that is the issuer of the
security futures. Moreover, investors would have been entitled to the protections of Section 11
and Section 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act with respect to the disclosures contained in the
registration statement and other offering materials.
IV.

Discussion

The Commission is issuing this Report, and foregoing an enforcement action against
Eurex, in part, because of its substantial and timely cooperation and prompt remediation efforts.
On October 21, 2011, Eurex self-reported to the Commission and CFTC staff that it had been
offering and selling contracts in the U.S. on a non-narrow based index that had shifted to security
futures on a narrow-based security index for approximately 18 months without complying with
the applicable registration requirements prescribed by the federal securities laws. Immediately
on discovering the issue, Eurex ceased offering and selling the security futures on the Index in
the United States and sent a notice informing Eurex members of the change in status of the
futures on the Index.
Up until the discovery that the Index had become a narrow-based security index, Eurex
had no policies and procedures in place to monitor compliance of the futures on its indices with
the conditions of the CFTC no-action letter or the requirements of the federal securities laws
applicable to security futures. Eurex has since implemented comprehensive policies and
procedures that now require monthly, and in some instances daily, compliance monitoring of
indices on which it offers futures contracts in the U.S. Specifically, if through monthly
16

Section 3(a)(14) of the Securities Act.

monitoring Eurex staff determines that the Index is on the verge of becoming a narrow-based
security index, the procedures require that Eurex staff will commence monitoring on a daily
basis. 17
In issuing this Report, we observe that Eurex’s failure to comply with the federal
securities laws could have been prevented if Eurex had adequate internal controls to ensure
compliance with the provisions of the federal securities laws governing security futures. Up
until its discovery that the Index had become a narrow-based index, Eurex did not regularly
monitor the composition of the Index or otherwise verify that the Index was not a narrow-based
security index while it was offering and selling security futures contracts in the U.S. for
approximately eighteen months. Exchanges and investment professionals should take the
appropriate steps to verify that they are in compliance with the federal securities laws, which
could include establishing policies and procedures to appropriately monitor the composition of
indices on which futures are based to determine if they are offering security futures products.
In addition, we note that Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act gives the Commission jurisdiction over security-based swaps by including them
in the definition of security under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and the CFTC
jurisdiction over swaps (collectively, “Title VII Instruments”). The test for whether an
agreement, contract, or transaction is a swap or a security-based swap also uses the definition of
narrow-based security index in Section 1a(35) of the CEA and Section 3(a)(55)(B) of the
Exchange Act. 18 However, while futures (including security futures) sold in the United States
are listed on exchanges where the exchange’s requirements often require a review of whether the
future is on a single-stock security, narrow-based security index, or broad-based security index,
such is not the case with bilaterally negotiated swaps and security-based swaps that are entered
into solely with eligible contract participants (“ECPs”). Unlike futures, swaps and securitybased swaps may be sold over-the-counter solely with ECPs, where the characteristics must be
vetted by the counterparties to the transaction based on the statutory and rule-based definitions of
narrow-based security index. 19
As such, anyone entering into Title VII Instruments based on an index should carefully
consider the characteristics of the instrument to determine whether it is a security-based swap.
The investment professional will need to make this determination before offering to enter into
17

Eurex’s newly-implemented policy for monitoring an index’s status states monitoring shall switch from a
“monthly” to a “daily” basis if any index: (1) has 10 component securities; (2) has a component security that
comprises more than 25% of the index’s weighting; (3) has five highest weighted component securities that in the
aggregate comprise more than 55% of the index’s weighting; or (4) has the lowest weighted component securities
comprising, in the aggregate, 25% of the index’s weighting that has an aggregate dollar value of average daily
trading volume of less than $55,000,000 (or in the case of an index with 15 or more component securities,
$35,000,000).

18

See Further Definition of “Swap,” “Security-Based Swap,” and “Security-Based Swap Agreement;” Mixed
Swaps; Security-Based Swap Agreement Recordkeeping, Exchange Act Release No. 67453 (July 18, 2012), 77 Fed.
Reg. 48208 (Aug. 13, 2012).
19

Where there is an offer and sale to a non-ECP of a security-based swap, the transaction must be registered under
the Securities Act and traded on a national securities exchange.

the transaction in order to determine whether the federal securities laws apply. Failure to do so
could put a party at risk of violating Section 5 of the Securities Act for offering and selling
securities in unregistered transactions without a valid exemption, or other applicable provisions
of the Exchange Act relating to security-based swaps.
V.

Conclusion

When offering financial instruments based on indices, exchanges and investment
professionals should take the appropriate steps to verify that they are in compliance with the
federal securities laws, which could include establishing policies and procedures to appropriately
monitor the composition of indices on which futures are based to determine if they are offering
security futures products. In analogous situations involving security-based swaps, investment
professionals who engage in swap transactions similarly are responsible for ascertaining the
characteristics of such swaps to ensure that, if such swaps are security-based swaps, the
investment professional is appropriately offering the securities to persons in the United States,
and meeting all registration and other requirements associated with those securities.
By the Commission.

