UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78518 / August 9, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4475 / August 9, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17370
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
AND SECTION 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
MERLE G. WALTER,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Section 203(f) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Merle G. Walter (“Walter” or
“Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of
these proceedings and the findings contained in Section III.2., below, which are admitted,
Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 203(f) of the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth
below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that
1.
During the period April 2006 to May 2010, Walter was associated with a registered
broker-dealer and state-registered investment adviser. Walter, age 66, is a resident of Arvada,
Colorado.
2.
On March 11, 2013, the District Court, Denver County, Colorado, in Fred J.
Joseph v. Merle Gene Walter, Case No. 2012CV2181, entered an order against Walter barring
him from, among other things, associating with any broker-dealer or investment adviser doing
business in Colorado.
3.
According to the Complaint filed by the Colorado Division of Securities, the
underlying conduct giving rise to the claim occurred between April 2006 and May 2010.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Walter’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act
and Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act that Respondent Walter be, and hereby is barred from
association with any investment adviser, broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer, or transfer
agent; and
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act that Respondent Walter be, and hereby
is barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter,
finder, consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer
for purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce
the purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws and
regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

