UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77519 / April 5, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17193
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
RAYMON G. CHADWICK,
JR.,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Raymon G.
Chadwick, Jr. (“Respondent”).
II.

In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and over the subject matter of these
proceedings and the findings contained in Section III.2. below, which are admitted, Respondent
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions
(“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that
1.
Respondent, age 60, is a resident of Grand Prairie, Texas. Respondent is the cofounder of the Innovative Group, PMA (“Innovative Group”), the Premier Group, PMA (“Premier
Group”) and the Prosperity Group, PMA (“Prosperity Group). In addition, Respondent is a
principal trustee and managing member of the Innovative Group, and is the principal trustee and
managing member of the Premier Group.

2.
On February 16, 2016, a judgment was entered by consent against Respondent,
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 5(a), 5(c), and 17(a) of the Securities
Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Sections 10(b) and 15(a)(1) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5
thereunder, in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Janus Spectrum
LLC, et al., Civil Action Number 2:15-cv-00609-SMM , in the United States District Court for the
District of Arizona.
3.
The Commission’s complaint alleged that Respondent engaged in securities fraud,
acted as an unregistered broker or dealer, and offered and sold unregistered securities, in
connection with a $12.5 million securities offering fraud orchestrated by Janus Spectrum LLC
(“Janus Spectrum”) and its current and former principals, David Alcorn and Kent Maerki. The
complaint alleges that Janus Spectrum held itself out as a company that prepares applications for
Federal Communication Commission (“FCC”) cellular spectrum licenses on behalf of third party
clients, which included various individuals and fundraising entities, including Respondent,
(collectively, the “Defendants”). The complaint alleged that Alcorn and Maerki organized and
controlled the offerings so that the various fundraising entities, including those owned and
managed by Respondent, offered and sold securities in a purported effort to raise funds to apply for
FCC licenses. The complaint alleged that in connection with these offerings, the Defendants,
including Respondent, misled investors by falsely representing that their investments would yield
substantial returns through the sale and lease of the FCC licenses to major wireless carriers, when
the Defendants, including Respondent, knew, or were reckless or negligent in not knowing, that the
FCC licenses, if obtained, were in a narrow spectrum which could not be sold or leased to any
major wireless carriers, thereby greatly diminishing their projected value. The complaint also
alleges that the Defendants, including Respondent, concealed the actual costs associated with
obtaining the FCC licenses, and misappropriated investor funds to their own, undisclosed uses.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Chadwick’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act,
that Respondent Chadwick be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer,
2

investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally
recognized statistical rating organization; and
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent Chadwick be, and hereby is
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder,
consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for
purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the
purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

