UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77531 / April 5, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17197
:
:
:
In the Matter of
:
:
WILLIAM H. CAUGHRAN, ESQ.,
:
:
Respondent.
:
:
:
:
____________________________________ :

ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE
102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF
PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against William
H. Caughran, Esq. (“Respondent” or “Caughran”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the
Commission’s Rules of Practice.1
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
1

Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:

The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing,
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any attorney . . . who has been
by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her
misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the
violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations
thereunder.

Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e)
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions
(“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Caughran, age 59, is a resident of Pelham, Alabama. Caughran is a member
of the Alabama State Bar. From 2006 until 2011, Caughran was the General Counsel of Superior
Bancorp (“Superior”), a bank holding company with a class of securities that was registered with
the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange
Act”). Caughran has never held any securities licenses and has never been registered with the
Commission in any capacity.
2.
On January 13, 2016, the Commission filed a complaint against Caughran
and other named defendants, in SEC v. Caughran, et al. (Civil Action No. 4:16-CV-00023), in the
United States District Court for the Northern District of Florida. The Commission’s complaint
alleged, among other things, that from at least March 2009 until at least November 2010, Caughran
and the other named defendants participated in accounting fraud at Superior and its primary
operating division, Superior Bank. The Commission’s complaint further alleged, among other
things, that Caughran and the other named defendants engaged in schemes to avoid impairing loans
appropriately or increasing Superior Bank’s allowance for loan and lease losses. The
Commission’s complaint further alleged, among other things, that Caughran and the other named
defendants’ schemes resulted in Superior filing materially false and misleading financial
statements in, among other filings, Superior’s Form 10-K for fiscal year 2009 and in its quarterly
reports for fiscal years 2009 and 2010.
3.
Without admitting or denying the allegations within the Commission’s
complaint, Caughran consented to an order, entered by the United States District Court on March
23, 2016, permanently enjoining Caughran from future violations of Sections 17(a) of the Securities
Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), and Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5 and 13b2-2
thereunder, and from aiding and abetting violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, Sections
10(b) and 13(a) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1, and 13a-13 thereunder.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Caughran’s Offer.

2

Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, Caughran is suspended from
appearing or practicing before the Commission as an attorney.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

