UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77574 / April 11, 2016
SEC SUSPENDS TRADING IN THE SECURITIES OF NINETEEN COMPANIES
QUOTED ON OTC LINK
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission” or “SEC” ) today announced the
temporary suspension, pursuant to Section 12(k) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the
"Exchange Act"), of trading in the securities of the following issuers, commencing at 9:30
a.m. EDT on April 11, 2016, and terminating at 11:59 p.m. EDT on April 22, 2016:

Issuer

1. Business Marketing Services, Inc.
2. Diversified Corporate Resources, Inc.
3. Great Lakes Recreation Co.
4. Green Nature USA, Inc.
5. Green St. Energy, Inc.
6. International Total Services, Inc.
7. J.P. Cabot Realty, Inc.
8. Multicom Publishing
9. Pan American Resources, Inc.
10. Printron, Inc.
11. Seaboard Associates, Inc.
12. Sona Mobile Holdings Group, Ltd.
13. Standard Holdings Group, Ltd.
14. TraceGuard Technologies, Inc.
15. Tradings.net, Inc.
16. US-Worldlink.com, Inc.
17. Versadial, Inc.
18. Voxcorp, Inc.
19. W3OTC, Inc.

Ticker
BMSV
HIRD
GLRC
GRTU
GSTY
ITSW
JPCB
MNET
PNAR
PRNI
SAOA
SNMBQ
SNDH
TCGD
TDNC
USWL
VSDL
VOXR
WOTC

Information
Regarding
Operating Status*
1
1
1
1
1
2
1
1
1
1
1
1
2
1
1
1
1
1
1

The Commission temporarily suspended trading in these securities because of questions that
have been raised about the accuracy and adequacy of publicly disseminated information
concerning the companies’ operating status, if any. 1 Each of the issuers above is quoted on OTC
1

Below are explanations for each of the codes used in the above table:

Link operated by OTC Markets Group, Inc. OTC Markets Group, Inc., however, has been
unable to contact each of these issuers for more than one year. In addition, the staff of the
Securities and Exchange Commission has independently endeavored to determine whether any
of the issuers below are operating. Each of the issuers above either confirmed that they were no
longer operating or were now private companies, failed to respond to the Commission’s inquiry
about their operating status, did not have an operational address, or failed to provide their
registered agent with an operational address. The staff of the Securities and Exchange
Commission also determined that none of the issuers below has filed any information with OTC
Markets Group, Inc. or the Securities and Exchange Commission for the past year.
The Commission cautions brokers, dealers, shareholders, and prospective purchasers that they
should carefully consider the foregoing information along with all other currently available
information and any information subsequently issued by the company.
Further, brokers and dealers should be alert to the fact that, pursuant to Rule 15c2-11 under the
Exchange Act, at the termination of the trading suspension, no quotation may be entered unless
and until they have strictly complied with all of the provisions of the rule. If any broker or dealer
has any questions as to whether or not he has complied with the rule, he should not enter any
quotation but immediately contact the staff in the Division of Trading and Markets, Office of
Interpretation and Guidance, at (202) 551-5777. If any broker or dealer is uncertain as to what is
required by Rule 15c2-11, he should refrain from entering quotations relating to these
companies’ securities until such time as he has familiarized himself with the rule and is certain
that all of its provisions have been met. If any broker or dealer enters any quotation which is in
violation of the rule, the Commission will consider the need for prompt enforcement action.
Any broker, dealer, investor, or other person with information relating to this matter is invited to
contact the Securities and Exchange Commission at http://www.sec.gov. The Commission’s
Office of Investor Education and Advocacy has information for investors and members of the
general public on topics related to investing at http://www.investor.gov.

1=The Securities and Exchange Commiss ion attempted to contact the issuer and either the Commission did not
receive a response to its letter, the letters were returned as undeliverable, or the registered agent responded that they
had no forwarding address for the issuer.
2=The Securities and Exchange Commission was able to contact the issuer, which informed the Commission that
either the issuer was no longer operating or was now a private company.

