ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17283
SEC Charges Manager of Equipment Leasing Funds with Causing Financial Reporting
Violations
June 10, 2016 – The Securities and Exchange Commission today announced that ICON Capital
LLC, a Manhattan-based entity that manages equipment leasing funds, has agreed to settle
charges that it caused four of its funds to report materially inaccurate financial results in their
SEC filings. ICON has agreed to settle the SEC charges by, among other things, paying a
$750,000 penalty.
According to the SEC’s order instituting a settled administrative proceeding, the four funds’
financial results were misstated primarily due to accounting errors relating to the impairment of
significant fund assets that declined in value following the global financial crisis, and that ICON
failed to comply with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) on multiple occasions
when assessing whether and to what extent the recorded value of certain assets needed to be
impaired and when addressing related financial reporting issues.
The SEC’s order finds that ICON manages a variety of equipment leasing funds, which file
periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC. During the relevant period, one of
ICON’s primary investment strategies was for these funds to purchase and then lease large
commercial shipping vessels. Beginning in 2009, the severe downturn in the world economy
following the financial crisis resulted in a sharp drop in shipping lease rates and vessel sale
prices that lasted for several years. In response to the depressed market, ICON began using for
impairment and valuation purposes a methodology developed by members of the shipping
industry known as the Hamburg Ship Evaluation Standard (Hamburg Method), which uses tenyear historical average prices to estimate future lease rates. The SEC’s order finds that ICON’s
exclusive reliance on the Hamburg Method’s historical data to make fair value and related
accounting determinations in situations where ICON possessed relevant contemporaneous
market sales data and other relevant evidence contravened GAAP.
According to the SEC’s order, ICON’s accounting errors resulted in material overstatements of
net income (or understatements of net loss) by the four relevant funds that ranged as high as
nearly 600 percent. In some instances, a multi-million dollar profit was reported when, in fact,
the fund had incurred a multi-million dollar loss. ICON’s errors also caused the funds to record
and report overstated asset values which, in turn, led to overstatement of members’ equity by as
much as 78 percent. The order finds that, as a result of the errors, the funds at issue failed to take
required asset value impairments, overstated post-impairment asset values when impairments
were taken or understated depreciation expenses in multiple reporting periods from 2009 through
2012.
The SEC order finds that ICON was a cause of violations by the relevant funds of Sections 13(a),
13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1 and
13a-13. Without admitting or denying the findings, ICON consented to the order and agreed to pay

the $750,000 penalty. The order also requires ICON to cease and desist from committing or causing
any violations and any future violations of the above provisions of the federal securities laws.
The SEC’s investigation, which is continuing, has been conducted by Kenneth Gottlieb, David
Austin, David Zetlin-Jones and George Stepaniuk of the SEC’s New York office. The matter is
being supervised by Sanjay Wadhwa.
See also:

SEC Order - ICON Capital LLC

