UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77317 / March 8, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17158
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
FREDERICK J. BIRKS,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Frederick J. Birks
(“Birks” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.2 below, which are admitted, Respondent
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions
(“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Birks, age 43, was a sales agent of Viper Asset Management, LLC and distributed
business cards that described him as a director of Viper Asset Management and “eCareer.” Birks
was a registered representative associated with numerous registered broker-dealers from 1993 to
2005, including former boiler rooms. As a result of previous Commission’s actions, Birks has
been permanently enjoined and barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock and from
associating with any broker or dealer.
2.
On March 2, 2016, a Final Judgment was entered by consent against Birks,
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Sections 5(a), 5(c) and 17(a) of the Securities
Act of 1933 and Sections 10(b) and 15(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder in the
civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Frederick J. Birks, et al., Civil Action
Number 9:15-cv-80446-JIC-COHN, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of
Florida.
3.
The Commission’s complaint alleged, inter alia, that Birks took part in a fraudulent
scheme, which defrauded more than 400 investors out of more than $11 million. The Commission
further alleged that Birks was a sales agent in a boiler room that was used to cold call investors, a
number of whom are senior citizens, to invest in a fraudulent offering and sale of unregistered
eCareer shares. In addition, the Commission alleged that Birks carried out a fraudulent scheme
and made material misrepresentations and omissions to investors.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Birks’ Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act that
Respondent Birks be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment
adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized
statistical rating organization; and
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent Birks be, and hereby is
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder,
consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for
purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the
purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
2

waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

