UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78147 / June 23, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4435 / June 23, 2016
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 32160 / June 23, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17315

In the Matter of
ROSS, SINCLAIRE &
ASSOCIATES, LLC AND
MURRAY SINCLAIRE, JR.,
Respondents.

ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-ANDDESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTIONS 15(b) AND 21C OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
SECTIONS 203(e) AND 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
AND SECTION 9(b) OF THE
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASEAND-DESIST ORDER
I.

The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted pursuant to Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange
Act”), Sections 203(e) and 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) and
Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940) (“Investment Company Act”), against Ross,
Sinclaire & Associates, LLC (“RSA”) and Murray Sinclaire, Jr. (“Sinclaire,” or collectively
“Respondents”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these
1

proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondents consent
to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-And-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to
Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sections 203(e) and 203(f) of the
Investment Advisers act of 1940, and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940,
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-And-Desist Order (“Order”), as
set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offer the Commission finds1 that:
SUMMARY
1.
From at least January 2007 through December 2012 (the “relevant period”),
Nicholas L. Fry II (“Fry”), president of registered investment adviser Fry Hensley and Company
(“FHC”), took advantage of his close relationship with broker-dealer RSA to carry out a fraudulent
scheme whereby Fry charged his advisory clients inflated commissions through RSA. During the
relevant period, RSA permitted Fry to be involved in effecting equity securities trades for FHC
clients at RSA. Fry’s involvement included setting the amount of commissions, markups, and
markdowns (“Transaction Charges”) that RSA charged its customers, despite the fact that Fry did
not have the required Series 7 license from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.
(“FINRA”) to do this work. RSA purportedly assigned Jane Fry, Fry’s wife and an RSA registered
representative, as the RSA “account executive” on FHC’s client accounts, and paid her 50% of the
Transaction Charges that RSA collected, even though Jane Fry did essentially no work for RSA
and was generally not involved in Fry’s equity trading for FHC’s clients. In breach of his best
execution obligation and unbeknownst to FHC clients, Fry routinely set the Transaction Charges
for these transactions much higher than the required minimum which was available through RSA.
The higher charges inured to the benefit of Fry, FHC (through Jane Fry) and RSA. Throughout the
relevant period, RSA and Sinclaire (RSA’s president and CEO) authorized Fry to set the
Transaction Charges for FHC client equity transactions despite the fact that they knew Fry did not
have the required FINRA license. RSA and Sinclaire also arranged for Fry and FHC to directly
benefit from the higher charges by paying Jane Fry half of the Transaction Charges that RSA
collected on Fry’s equity trades. RSA and Sinclaire also benefited by keeping half of the
Transaction Charges.
RESPONDENTS
Ross, Sinclaire & Associates, LLC
2.
RSA is an Ohio limited liability company and a broker-dealer registered with the
Commission since 2005. In 2005, RSA succeeded to the business of Ross, Sinclaire and
Associates, Inc., an Ohio corporation that had been registered with the Commission as a brokerdealer since 1989. In addition to being a broker-dealer, RSA has been registered with the
Commission as an investment adviser from October 2009 to June 2012 and from September 2013
The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.
1

2

to the present. RSA has been a member of FINRA since RSA’s formation in 2005. RSA’s
principal office is located in Cincinnati, Ohio.
Murray Sinclaire, Jr.
3.
Sinclaire is a resident of Cincinnati, Ohio. During RSA’s existence, Sinclaire has
been RSA’s president and CEO and he currently owns 90% of the firm. Sinclaire has been
associated with various broker-dealers since 1985. Sinclaire holds the following licenses from
FINRA: General Securities Representative (Series 7), General Securities Principal (Series 24),
Municipal Securities Principal (Series 53), Equity Trader (Series 55) and Uniform Securities State
Law (Series 63).
OTHER RELEVANT ENTITY AND PERSON
Fry Hensley & Company and Nicholas L. Fry II
4.
FHC was an investment advisory firm located in Cincinnati, Ohio. FHC was
incorporated as an Ohio corporation in 1993 and is now defunct. FHC was registered with the
Commission as an investment adviser from 1994 to August 2012, and registered as an investment
adviser with the State of Ohio from March 2012 to December 2013. Between 2004 and 2012,
FHC’s assets under management varied from approximately $25 million to $33 million.
5.
During the relevant period, Fry was FHC’s sole owner, president and chief
compliance officer. From 1993 through June 2008 and then again from October 2011 to August
2012, RSA formally registered Fry with FINRA as a representative associated with RSA.
However, throughout the relevant period, Fry was associated with RSA. At all times, Fry held
only a Series 6 license with FINRA (i.e., Limited Representative – Investment Company and
Variable Contracts Products license) and has never held a Series 7 license (i.e., General Securities
Representative license). From 2001 to December 2013, Fry held an Ohio investment adviser
representative license. Fry was married to Jane Fry.
6.
In March 2013, the Commission issued an Order Instituting Public Administrative
and Cease and Desist proceedings against FHC and Fry arising from their role in the facts set out
herein. See Advisers Act Release No. 3564 (Mar. 8, 2013). In October 2013, the Commission
issued a settled order that: (1) found that FHC had willfully violated Sections 206(1), 206(2),
206(4) and Rule 206(4)-4 thereunder, and Section 207 of the Advisers Act, that Fry had willfully
violated Sections 206(1), 206(2), and Section 207 of the Advisers Act and willfully aided and
abetted and caused FHC’s violations; (2) ordered FHC and Fry to cease and desist from
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 206(1), 206(2) and 207
of the Advisers Act; (3) censured FHC; (4) barred Fry from associations with any broker, dealer,
investment adviser, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating
organization, and prohibited him from serving or acting as an employee, officer, director, member
of an advisory board, investment adviser or depositor of, or principal underwriter for, a registered
investment company or affiliated person of such investment adviser, depositor, or principal
underwriter; and (5) waived disgorgement and did not impose a civil penalty based on FHC and
Fry’s statements of financial condition and other information submitted to the Commission. See
Advisers Act Release No. 3708 (Oct. 30, 2013).
3

7.
In December 2013, the Ohio Division of Securities issued a Consent Order
revoking FHC’s Ohio investment adviser license.
FACTS
Background
8.
Sinclaire started RSA in 1989 and currently owns 90% of the firm. RSA is both an
SEC registered broker-dealer and SEC registered investment adviser. RSA claims to be a “full
service brokerage and investment banking firm” with 15 offices in 10 states. RSA’s website states
that it specializes in municipal finance, corporate finance and institutional sales and trading.
9.
FHC, now defunct, was a small investment adviser that Fry operated for most of the
relevant period from inside RSA’s offices with only a secretary and one other employee. FHC
provided discretionary investment advice, mostly to high net worth individuals. Fry was ultimately
responsible for providing FHC’s advisory services. Fry met with clients, determined the
appropriate investment strategy with them, and carried it out, in large part by directing securities
trading in his clients’ RSA brokerage accounts. FHC had written contracts with its clients that
specified the advisory fee they would be charged for FHC’s advisory services, typically ranging
from 0.5% to 1.75% of assets under management annually.
RSA and FHC’s Close Relationship
10.
By the start of the relevant period, RSA and FHC had been closely associated for
many years and Sinclaire and Fry were friends. From approximately 1993 to December 2010,
RSA leased office space and related services to FHC in RSA’s Cincinnati office. Fry had long
recommended that FHC’s clients keep brokerage accounts at RSA, and the vast majority of their
clients did so. Sinclaire had previously referred a number of his own brokerage customers to Fry
and FHC for investment advisory services.
11.
From 1993 to mid-2008, RSA formally registered Fry with FINRA as a limited
representative associated with RSA. In June 2008, RSA filed a Form U-5 Termination Form with
FINRA, noting that Fry was no longer a representative formally associated with it. From October
2011 to August 2012, RSA again registered Fry with FINRA as a representative formally
associated with RSA. However, Fry’s relationship with RSA remained identical during the period
he was not formally associated with RSA and throughout the relevant period, RSA maintained a
written supervisory procedures manual (“SPM”) that designated Fry as a person under RSA’s
supervision. For most of the relevant period, RSA designated Sinclaire as the person to supervise
Fry.
12.
From at least 1993 until Jane Fry’s death in October 2011, RSA formally registered
Jane Fry with FINRA as a representative associated with RSA. Jane Fry held the following
FINRA licenses: General Securities Representative (Series 7) and Uniform Securities State Law
(Series 63). Throughout the relevant period, RSA’s SPM designated Jane Fry as a person under
RSA’s supervision, and designated Sinclaire as the person to supervise Jane Fry.
13.
Because Fry was not properly licensed, RSA listed Jane Fry on its records as the
“account executive” (i.e., the General Securities Representative) assigned to most of RSA’s
4

customers that were also FHC’s clients and compensated her rather than Fry for Transaction
Charges charged to FHC client accounts.
14.
Jane Fry did little or no work at RSA or for FHC clients, did not have an RSA desk,
phone, or computer and was rarely in the office during business hours. Instead, for FHC clients,
Fry was involved in effecting equity securities transactions through RSA, despite lacking the
required FINRA Series 7 license for this work.
15.
Despite Jane Fry’s nominal role at RSA, RSA paid her a monthly salary of $12,500
and credited her with 50% of the Transaction Charges it collected from FHC’s clients. RSA kept
the other 50%.
16.
By no later than 2004, FHC was insolvent, with expenses exceeding its advisory
revenues. According to Fry, this was due partly to high health insurance costs. In 2005, Fry and
Sinclaire negotiated a new agreement between their companies, in which RSA agreed to take
FHC’s two existing employees other than Fry onto its books as employees, to provide them with
access to RSA’s healthcare plan, and to pay the employees per Fry’s instructions. Despite being on
RSA’s payroll, the employees continued to work for FHC at Fry’s direction and under his
supervision. RSA did not bear the financial burden of hiring these employees. Instead, the
employees’ salaries, as well as the cost of other certain services RSA provided to FHC, were
deducted from the amount of compensation paid to Jane Fry. After making these deductions, RSA
paid Jane Fry any surplus. Any deficit amount was carried forward, and was expected to be paid
out of Jane Fry’s share of the Transaction Charges that Fry set for his clients during the following
month.
17.
In addition to the above arrangements, RSA supplied FHC with office space,
computers, telephones, internet and other IT services, as well as access to RSA’s research tools
(e.g., use of its Bloomberg terminal) in exchange for 50% of FHC’s advisory fees. In January
2009, FHC and RSA amended this part of their agreement, and FHC agreed to pay RSA a fixed fee
of $70,000 per year for office space and these services. However, FHC’s financial condition did
not improve and it could not pay the amounts it had agreed to pay RSA. As a result, FHC
developed a growing debt to RSA, which was carefully tracked by RSA’s Chief Financial Officer.
By late 2010, this debt had grown to more than $200,000. In December 2010, RSA and Sinclaire
required FHC and Fry to move out of RSA’s office space, and FHC began leasing its own space on
a different floor of the same building.
RSA and Sinclaire Authorized Fry to Effect Equity Securities Transactions at RSA
18.
Throughout the relevant period, Fry typically conducted equity trading for his
clients in bulk by directing that the trades be executed on a riskless principal basis. In a typical
bulk trade, Fry first determined which FHC clients would purchase or sell a particular equity
security. Then, he or one of his employees at his direction completed an RSA order ticket that
specified the total number of shares that Fry wanted RSA to purchase or sell for these clients and
specified the capacity (e.g., riskless principal) in which RSA should act to handle the order. Fry or
one of his employees took the order ticket to RSA’s “cage,” time-stamped it and provided the order
ticket to RSA’s cage personnel, who entered it into RSA’s order entry system as RSA’s record of
the trade and transmitted the order to RSA’s clearing firm for execution. Fry’s orders, when
5

executed, caused RSA to purchase or sell securities with the market in one of its principal trading
accounts. After the trade was completed, and the price that RSA had paid or received for the
security was known, Fry (or his representatives at his direction) provided the RSA cage with the
information needed to allocate the bulk trade to FHC’s clients, specifying which of his clients
would participate, the number of shares each client was to purchase or sell, and the price FHC’s
clients would pay or receive.
19.
The difference between the price RSA paid or received with the market and the
price Fry set for his clients -- the markup or markdown -- was RSA’s compensation for the trade in
lieu of a commission being charged. This type of equity trading, typically referred to as “riskless
principal” trading, represented the overwhelming majority of the equity transactions that were
made for FHC’s clients. During the relevant period, Fry also made a limited number of agency
trades for his clients in which he set the commission that RSA charged. Throughout the relevant
period, RSA gave Fry the discretion to set the amount of Transaction Charge for each of his equity
trades, subject to Sinclaire’s post-trade approval each day.
20.
During the relevant period, Fry typically handled these aspects of effecting equity
securities transactions for RSA instead of Jane Fry, on some occasions with the assistance of
another RSA registered representative. In October 2011, Jane Fry died, and FHC’s clients’
brokerage accounts that had been assigned to her became so-called “house accounts,” and FHC’s
clients were reassigned to Sinclaire. Between October 2011 and December 2012, Sinclaire was not
identified as the individual account representative of record on trade confirmations and monthly
account statements provided to the FHC clients previously assigned to Jane Fry. Despite the fact
that Sinclaire was now assigned to FHC’s clients’ brokerage accounts, Sinclaire continued to
permit Fry to set the amount of Transaction Charges that RSA charged to FHC’s clients. Sinclaire
also continued to approve Fry’s equity trades and Transaction Charges after the trades had been
completed.
RSA Profited from FHC and Fry’s Decision to Impose Higher Transaction Charges on Their
Clients
21.
RSA had a $50 minimum transaction charge for equity transactions, and Fry was
authorized to set Transaction Charges at that level. However, Fry typically set his clients’
Transaction Charges at much higher levels than $50.
22.
Between January 1, 2007 and December 31, 2012, and for those FHC clients
assigned to Jane Fry, Fry (or his representatives at his direction) directed RSA to charge his clients
Transaction Charges in excess of the $50 minimum on more than 9,900 occasions (or
approximately 73% of Fry’s equity trade allocations during the relevant period). On these trades,
Fry directed RSA to charge his clients an average of $197.98, or roughly 4 times the minimum
amount. In many cases, Fry instructed RSA to charge FHC clients substantially more. Many of
these transactions were in highly liquid, medium to large capitalization securities that were easily
purchased or sold through national exchanges.
23.
In total, Fry directed RSA to charge those clients purportedly assigned to Jane Fry
$1.5 million more than what would have been charged if the $50 minimum had been consistently
applied, of which RSA retained at least $703,335.16.
6

24.
By directing RSA to charge his clients higher levels, Fry increased the amount of
compensation credited to Jane Fry and helped pay FHC’s debts to RSA for paying FHC
employees’ salaries and for other services RSA provided to FHC. Fry also used hundreds of
thousands of dollars of Transaction charges paid to Jane Fry to keep FHC in business and to
support himself and Jane Fry. At one point, Sinclaire spoke with Fry and informed him that he
could charge his clients less, but Fry declined to do so, believing that the level of advisory services
he provided to his clients justified the higher Transaction Charges.
25.
After Jane Fry’s death, RSA kept 100% of the Transaction Charges that Fry set for
his clients, allowing RSA to recoup from FHC’s clients some of the money that FHC owed it. At
this time, RSA formally re-registered Fry with FINRA as a representative associated with RSA.
Despite the fact that Fry never obtained his Series 7 license, RSA continued to give Fry discretion
to set customer Transaction Charges, subject to daily post-trade approval by Sinclaire.
26.
Throughout the relevant period, Sinclaire was aware that Fry did not hold a Series 7
license, and also that Fry was involved in effecting equity security transactions at RSA and setting
Transaction Charges much higher than he could.
VIOLATIONS
27.
As a result of the conduct described above, RSA willfully violated Section 15(b)(7)
of the Exchange Act and Rule 15b7-1 thereunder, which provide that no registered broker or dealer
shall effect any transaction in, or induce the purchase or sale of, any security unless any natural
person associated with such broker or dealer who effects, or is involved in effecting, such
transaction is registered or approved in accordance with the standards of training, experience,
competence, and other qualification standards (including, but not limited to submitting and
maintaining all required forms, paying all required fees, and passing any required examinations)
established by the rules of any national securities exchange or national securities association of
which broker or dealer is a member.
28.
As a result of the above of the conduct described above, Sinclaire willfully aided
and abetted and caused RSA’s violations of Section 15(b)(7) of the Exchange Act and Rule 15b7-1
thereunder.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate, in the public interest, to
impose the sanctions agreed to in the Respondents’ Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Exchange Act, Sections 203(e) and
203(f) of the Advisers Act, and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act, it is hereby
ORDERED that:
A.
Respondent RSA shall cease and desist from committing or causing any
violations and any future violations of Section 15(b)(7) of the Exchange Act and Rule 15b7-1
promulgated thereunder.

7

B.
Respondent Sinclaire shall cease and desist from committing or causing any
violations and any future violations of Section 15(b)(7) of the Exchange Act and Rule 15b7-1
promulgated thereunder.
C.

Respondent RSA is censured.

D.
Respondent Sinclaire shall be, and hereby is, subject to the following limitations on
his activities for a period of twelve months: Respondent Sinclaire shall not act in a supervisory
capacity with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal
advisor, transfer agent, nationally recognized statistical rating organization. Respondent Sinclaire
is also prohibited for a period of twelve months from serving in a supervisory capacity with any
registered investment company, or with any investment adviser or depositor of, or principal
underwriter for, a registered investment company.
E.
Respondent RSA shall pay disgorgement of $703,335.16, prejudgment interest of
$99,239.54 and a civil penalty of $100,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Payment shall be made in the following installments:
(i)

$225,643.68 due within 21 days from the entry of this Order;

(ii)

$225,643.68 due August 31, 2016;

(iii)

$225,643.68 due January 15, 2017;

(iv)

$225,643.66 due April 3, 2017.

If any payment is not made by the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire
outstanding balance of disgorgement, prejudgment interest, and civil penalties, plus any
additional interest accrued pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600 and/or 31 U.S.C § 3717 shall be
due and payable immediately, without further application.
Payment must be made in one of the following ways:
(1)

Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the Commission,
which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon
request;

(2)

Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

8

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying RSA as a
Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover
letter and check or money order must be sent to Timothy L. Warren, Associate Director, Division
of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 175 W. Jackson Blvd., Suite 900, Chicago,
IL 60604.
F.
Respondent Sinclaire shall pay a civil penalty of $50,000 to the Securities and
Exchange Commission.
Payment shall be made by Sinclaire in the following installments:
(i)

$12,500 due within 21 days from the entry of this Order;

(ii)

$12,500 due August 31, 2016;

(iii)

$12,500 due January 15, 2017.

(iv)

$12,500 due April 3, 2017.

If any payment is not made by the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire
outstanding balance of civil penalties, plus any additional interest accrued pursuant to SEC Rule
of Practice 600 and/or § 31 U.S.C. 3171 shall be due and payable immediately, without further
application.
Payment must be made in one of the following ways:
(1)

Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the Commission,
which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon
request;

(2)

Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

9

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying Sinclaire as
a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover
letter and check or money order must be sent to Timothy L. Warren, Associate Director, Division
of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 175 W. Jackson Blvd., Suite 900, Chicago,
IL 60604.
G.
Pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, a Fair
Fund is created for the disgorgement, prejudgment interest and penalties referenced in paragraphs E
and F above. Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondents agree that in any Related Investor
Action, they shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall they benefit by, offset or reduction of
any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondents’ payment of a civil
penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a
Penalty Offset, Respondents agree that they shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order
granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of
the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall not be
deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil
penalty imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action”
means a private damages action brought against Respondents by or on behalf of one or more
investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the
Commission in this proceeding.
V.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth
in Section 523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S. C. §523, that the findings in this Order are true and
admitted by Respondent Sinclaire, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest,
civil penalty or other amounts due by Respondent under the Order or any other judgment, order,
consent order, decree or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt
for the violation by Respondent of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued
under such laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19).
By the Commission

Brent J. Fields
Secretary
10

