UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77728 / April 27, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17231

In the Matter of

ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO SECTION
15(b) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934, MAKING FINDINGS, AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

JOSEPH FLORES
DEMENESES, JR.,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in
the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant
to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Joseph Flores
DeMeneses, Jr. (“DeMeneses” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s
jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, and the findings contained in
Sections III.2. and III.4. below, and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative
Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings,
and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
DeMeneses, age 45, served as the Managing Partner of Global Strategy for Direct
Access Partners, LLC (“DAP”) from October 2008 until April 2013. DAP was at all relevant
times a broker-dealer registered with the Commission and a member of the Financial Industry

Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”), New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), NYSE MKT, and
NASDAQ. DeMeneses held FINRA General Securities Principal, Equity Trader, and General
Securities registrations.
2.
On April 6, 2016, a final judgment was entered by consent against DeMeneses,
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933
(“Securities Act”), Sections 10(b), 15(c)(1)(A), and 17(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5,
10b-3, 15b7-1, and 17a-4(b)(4) and (j) thereunder, in the civil action entitled Securities and
Exchange Commission v. Clarke Bethancourt, et al., Civil Action Number 1:13-CV-3074, in the
United States District Court for the Southern District of New York.
3.
The Commission’s Second Amended Complaint alleged, inter alia, that
DeMeneses devised and facilitated sham arrangements to conceal multi-million-dollar kickback
payments to the Vice President of Finance at Banco de Desarrollo Económico y Social de
Venezuela (“BANDES”), a state-owned and state-controlled economic development bank of the
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, in exchange for DAP receiving BANDES business. The
complaint also alleged that DeMeneses arranged for and permitted a person not registered with
FINRA to be compensated by DAP for effecting or being involved in effecting securities
transactions while knowing that such person needed to be registered with FINRA, and to have
passed the requisite qualification examinations, in order to conduct such activities. In addition,
the complaint also alleged that, as part of an effort to conceal the kickback scheme after the
Commission’s Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations issued document requests for
DeMeneses’ emails during the course of its examination, DeMeneses deleted certain BANDESrelated emails and attachments in personal email accounts and attempted to delete BANDESrelated emails from his DAP email account.
4.
On December 17, 2014, DeMeneses pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to
violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and to violate the Travel Act in violation of 18 U.S.C.
§ 371, before the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York in United
States v. Chinea, et al., Crim. No. 1:14-cr-00240. On March 27, 2015, a criminal judgment was
entered against DeMeneses. He was sentenced to a prison term of 48 months followed by three
years of supervised release, a $40,000 fine, and to forfeit the amount of $2,670,612.
5.
The conspiracy count to which DeMeneses pleaded guilty alleged, inter alia, that
DeMeneses participated in a bribery scheme in which DeMeneses and others made and caused to
be made bribe payments to the Vice President of Finance at BANDES in exchange for the Vice
President directing BANDES business to DAP and authorizing BANDES to execute bond trades
with DAP.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest
to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent DeMeneses’s Offer.

2

Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act
that Respondent DeMeneses be, and hereby is:
barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities
dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating
organization; and
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a
promoter, finder, consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a
broker, dealer or issuer for purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or
inducing or attempting to induce the purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable
laws and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a
number of factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following:
(a) any disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully
or partially waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the
conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization
arbitration award to a customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for
the Commission order; and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or
not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

