UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78562 /August 12, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17382

In the Matter of
Triumph Ventures Corp.,
Respondent.

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND REVOKING
REGISTRATION OF SECURITIES
PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(j) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it necessary and
appropriate for the protection of investors that proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted
pursuant to Section 12(j) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against
Triumph Ventures Corp. (“Triumph Ventures” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting
Proceedings, Making Findings, and Revoking Registration of Securities Pursuant to Section 12(j)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”) as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
A.
Triumph Ventures (CIK No. 1600774), a Delaware corporation based in
Jerusalem, Israel, is a development stage corporation that has not commenced operations. The
common stock of Triumph Ventures has been registered under Section 12(g) of the Exchange

Act since August 2014. Until April 10, 2015, the company’s stock (symbol “TRVX”) was
quoted on OTC Link (previously, “Pink Sheets”) operated by OTC Markets Group, Inc.
B.
Triumph Ventures has failed to comply with Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and
Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder, because it has not filed any periodic reports since it filed a
Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2015.
IV.
Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act provides as follows:
The Commission is authorized, by order, as it deems necessary or appropriate for the
protection of investors to deny, to suspend the effective date of, to suspend for a period not
exceeding twelve months, or to revoke the registration of a security, if the Commission finds, on
the record after notice and opportunity for hearing, that the issuer of such security has failed to
comply with any provision of this title or the rules and regulations thereunder. No member of a
national securities exchange, broker, or dealer shall make use of the mails or any means or
instrumentality of interstate commerce to effect any transaction in, or to induce the purchase or sale
of, any security the registration of which has been and is suspended or revoked pursuant to the
preceding sentence.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission finds that it is necessary and appropriate for the
protection of investors to impose the sanction specified in Respondent’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, pursuant to Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act, that
registration of each class of Respondent’s securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the
Exchange Act be, and hereby is, revoked.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

