SEC Poised to Negatively Impact the United States Economic Engine
Changing the Accredited Investor Thresholds Decreases Angel Investment Pool

For Release: Wednesday, January 20, 2016
Contacts: Christopher Levesque (860)-335-7854
Dr. Sandra Potter (401)-330-0692

ROCKY HILL, CONNECTICUT: The Board of Governors of start-up-sector self-regulator, TAN2000
International Holdings Corporation (TANHC), urges more people from the start-up world to speak out
against the proposed SEC change. The SEC proposal, dated December 18th, 2015, when most people
were preoccupied with the holidays, makes multiple suggestions regarding revisions to the Accredited
Investor definition any of which, if adopted, would have a ripple effect on the financial markets, moving
from early stage start-ups to the public markets. Investors, service providers and aspiring entrepreneurs
should be very concerned about any of the alternatives discussed in the report.
Of particular note, the SEC appointed Advisory Committee on Small and Emerging Companies –
individuals involved in the sector- disapprove of the SEC proposal. Their recommendations to the SEC
regarding the Accredited Investor Definition essentially would have the standards left as they are
currently. The Advisory Committee notes that proposed changes will “materially decrease the pool of
capital available” as well as have a “disparate impact” on women and minority entrepreneurs. Further,
the Advisory Committee believes that emerging companies, as well as publicly traded firms with less
than $250million in public market capitalization, would be negatively impacted by this proposed change.
Dr. Sandra Potter, speaking on behalf of the Board of Governors of TANHC, sees the proposed change as
widening the gap between the haves and the have-nots. “Start-ups add critically needed jobs to the
economy and provide a needed ladder for disadvantaged aspiring entrepreneurs to move upstream
socio-economically. Having the early stage capital pool shrink decreases opportunity for everyone.”
It is time for the start-up world to demonstrate the power of voluntary and collaborative selfgovernance. Changing the Accredited Investor Definition would have a domino effect: shrinking the
pool of those who qualify to participate in the early stage capital market decreases the number of
startups who are able to work towards launch and employ service providers in their pursuit of market
traction.

About TANHC: Start-up-sector self-regulator TANHC’s goal is to bring participants together in a
standards-enforced community that restores trust and commitment. The community self-governance
model is a powerful one. Entrepreneurs find mentors and support systems that allow them to propel
their start-up concept forward. Service providers help these same start-ups without having to worry
about whether or not they will be paid. Investors find investable start-ups and worry less about
investment risks.

