!
Tom C.W. Lin
Associate Professor of Law

1719 N. Broad Street
Philadelphia, PA 19122

July 14, 2016

Mr. Brent J. Fields
Secretary
Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, NE
Washington, DC 20549-1090
Re:

Report on the Review of the Definition of “Accredited Investor”

Dear Mr. Fields:
I am a law professor at Temple University Beasley School of Law. I research, teach, and
write in the areas of corporate law and securities regulation. This comment letter is provided in
response to the solicitation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) for
comments on the Commission’s Report on the Review of the Definition of “Accredited Investor”
(the “Report”).
I am supportive of the Commission’s recent efforts to review and improve the securities
rules relating to accredited investors as detailed in the Report. In connection with the Report, I
would like to highlight two broad issues for the Commission’s consideration that are detailed at
length in the referenced and attached research paper:1
1.	 The capital markets today consist of an incredibly diverse population of reasonable
investors, both accredited investors and ordinary investors, many of whom leverage the
new financial technology of smart machines in managing their investments. Today’s
diverse population of investors frequently deviates from the theoretical, monolithic
reasonable investor paradigm of perfectly rational human beings of average wealth and
ordinary financial sophistication that invest passively for the long term that historically
has premised much of securities regulation. In fact, many investors in today’s
marketplace use autonomous, algorithmic programs powered by artificial intelligence to
make their investment decisions, which represents a significant departure from historical
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
1

Tom C.W. Lin, Reasonable Investor(s), 95 B.U. L. REV. 461 (2015), available at: http://ssrn.com/abstract=2579510.!

1 of 2
!

investor practices and presumptions. As such, while it is important to protect every
investor – accredited or not – it is also important to acknowledge that not every
reasonable investor is the same, and thus not every investor needs the same type of
protection. (See Tom C.W. Lin, Reasonable Investor(s), 95 Boston University Law
Review 461, 466-76 (2015)).
2.	 In light of the role that smart machines are playing in today’s marketplace, the
Commission should consider investment technological capabilities and sophistication as a
factor in identifying individuals and entities that may qualify as accredited investors
based on criteria other than income and net worth. For instance, the Commission could
consider introducing an Algorithmic Investor qualifying category to its current
conceptions of accredited investors to better reflect the realities of the marketplace. (See
Tom C.W. Lin, Reasonable Investor(s), 95 Boston University Law Review 461, 495-501
(2015)).
I appreciate the opportunity to participate in this process, and would be happy to discuss
my comments or any questions the Commission may have with respect to this letter. Any
comments or questions by the Commission about this letter may be directed to
.
Sincerely,
/s/ Tom C.W. Lin

Attachments:
1. Tom C.W. Lin, Reasonable Investor(s), 95 Boston University Law Review 461 (2015)

2 of 2
!

Copyrighted material redacted. Author cites:
Lin, Tom C. W., Reasonable Investor(s). 95 Boston University Law Review, 461, 2015; Temple
University Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2015-20. Available at SSRN:
http://ssrn.com/abstract=2579510

