SMALL BUSINESS
INVESTOR ALLIANCE

March 7, 2016

Brent J. Fields
Secretary
Securities & Exchange Commission
100 F Street NE
Washington, D.C. 20549-1090

Re: File No. 4-692: SBIA Comments on the SEC Report on the Review of the
Definition of Accredited Investor
Dear Mr. Fields:
The Small Business Investor Alliance ("SBIA'') appreciates the opportunity to comment on the
"Report on the Review of the Definition of'Accredited Investor'" 1 ("Report") that was released
on December 18, 2015 by the Securities & Exchange Commission ("SEC" or "Commission").
SBIA is a national association that develops, supports, and advocates on behalf of policies that
benefit investment funds that finance small and mid-size businesses in the lower middle market,
as well as the investors that provide capital to these funds. Our membership consists of,
traditional 3(c)(l) and 3(c)(7) private funds, funds and their investment advisers that have been
licensed or are seeking to be licensed by the Small Business Administration ("SBA") as small
business investment companies ("SBICs"), funds registered as business development companies
("BDCs") under the Investment Company Act of 1940, and the investors that invest in these
funds, including banks, family offices and fund of funds.2 Accredited investors are invested in
many of our member funds.

I. 	

The Impact on SBIA Members Due to Recommendations on Adjusting the
Accredited Investor Definition

Our Members in making their offerings and sales of interests in their funds, overwhelmingly rely
on Rule 506 of Regulation D for the exemption from registration under the Securities Act of
1933 and on section 3(c)(l) and/or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 for exemption
from investment company registration requirements. Accordingly, these funds restrict their
U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission, Report on the Review ofthe Definition of "Accredited Investor",
December 18, 2015, available at: http://www.sec. gov!corpfinlreportspubslspecial-studies/review-definition-of
accredited-investor-12-18-2015.pdf
2 SBIA currently has 165 individual fund/investment adviser members, and over 40 BDC members.
1

1100 H Street, NW Suite 1200 Washington, DC 20005 (202) 628-5055 www.sbia.org

Mr. Brent J. Fields
Page 2 of 4

offerings to natural persons and entities that qualify as accredited investors, as defined under
Rule 501 of Regulation D. Due to our Fund Members' reliance on Rule 506 for the offerings of
their securities to investors, any change of the accredited investor definition to further limit its
scope would have a significant negative effect on the ability of our members to raise capital for
small business investments. We are particularly concerned with some of the Report's
recommendations on the adjustment of the "accredited investor" financial thresholds, and the
setting of new caps on the amount each investor can invest.

II. 	

The Recommended Changes to the Income and Net Worth Thresholds in the
Report, Will Reduce the Pool of Potential Investors in Small Business Funds & Fails
to Make a Case For Why the Change is Needed

In particular, the Report suggests the following changes which SBIA believes would
significantly harm the pool of available capital for small business investment: (1) subjecting
investors to new caps on investing to a certain percentage of income or net worth; (2) adding
new inflation adjusted income and net worth thresholds that "update" the thresholds since 1982;
and, (3) adding new inflation adjusted income and net worth thresholds on a going forward basis,
grandfathering current accredited investors. While making these recommendations, the Report
fails to provide any data or evidence that further restricting Americans from the ability to invest
is needed. Further restrictions would not only be taking away the freedom of investment choice
from more Americans, but would also have a significant impact on capital formation. These
recommendations should not be adopted by the Commission, as they will greatly reduce the
amount of capital available for investment and harm job creation. In effect they serve to only
"protect" more Americans from the freedom of choosing their own investments and limit these
investments to those who are already wealthy. Additionally, these changes are unnecessary
because the financial thresholds were already significantly raised in 201 l(by excluding the
primary residence from the calculation), and most importantly the SEC's has made the admission
that there has been no demonstrated investor protection need to raise them again.

III. 	

SBIA Supports The Report's Recommendations to Allow New Alternative Methods
to Establish Financial Sophistication for Americans

While we oppose the recommendations further restricting investor choice by raising the income
and net worth thresholds, SBIA supports the other recommendations made in the Report,
including (1) permitting spousal equivalents to pool their finances to achieve accredited investor
status; (2) permitting certain entities such as Indian tribes, LLCs, labor unions, 529 Plans and
others to qualify as accredited; (3) grandfathering existing accredited investors for future
offerings from existing issuers; and, (4) expanding accredited investor status to those that can
establish sophistication in other ways, including through an accredited investor education. These
recommendations would not further hinder capital formation, small business investment, and

1100 H Street, NW Suite 1200 Washington, DC 20005 (202) 628-5055 www.sbia.org

Mr. Brent J. Fields

Page 3 of 4

drive job creation. However a $5 million threshold is very high and will severely limit
investment by 529 Plans and other similar plans.
IV. 	

The Report Fails to Provide Sufficient Evidence of the Need for the Accredited
Investor Financial Thresholds to be Raised

The Report, while recommending potential changes, fails to provide any tangible evidence that
the current financial thresholds under the Accredited Investor definition are insufficient to
protect investors. Any increase in the financial thresholds under the accredited investor
definition will further limit the number of people who can invest in small business funds and
therefore reduce small business investment. Large funds are too large to invest efficiently in
small businesses and investors in large funds tend to be institutions, not individuals. Smaller
funds rely on individual investors and are appropriately sized to invest in small businesses.
Increasing the thresholds through investment caps 3, adjustment on current investors for inflation
since 1982, or adjusting for the thresholds for inflation on a going forward basis, all possibilities
recommended in the Report, will unfairly limit the ability of investors to access promising
investment opportunities. In addition, these increases would also have particular detrimental
effects for rural areas of the country that have difficulty in attracting large institutional
investment capital, due to distance, differences in income and living costs, and make it difficult
for small businesses and others to receive the capital they need for economic growth and job
creation. As such, any changes to these thresholds must be approached with care, with strong
evidence that investor protection is needed. The Report fails to present the evidence necessary to
draw the conclusion that the thresholds must be changed to protect investors.
If the Commission plans to further restrict the freedom of individuals to invest, it should first
establish that the current thresholds are a valid, not totally hypothetical and ideological, investor
protection concern, which it has failed to do. In fact, the Report affirmatively concludes that
there is no evidence of investor protection concern in regard to the current thresholds, stating
that: "while the size of the accredited investor pool has increased significantly [since 1982], the
staff is not aware of evidence suggesting that individuals qualifying as accredited investors under
the current financial thresholds and participating in the Regulation D market require the
protections of registration." 4 This statement highlights that there is no evidence of investor harm
suggesting a need to change the definition. In fact, nowhere in the Report does the SEC staff
explain why inflation adjustments are needed, or why this larger pool of investors needs the
"protection" of limiting their investment choices. The Report instead relies on letters from
3 While imposing caps on investments each individual can make based on net worth and income seems like a middle
ground between raising the financial thresholds and leaving them as they are, the caps effectively impose an income
and net worth requirement because most Regulation D offerings issued by private funds require a minimal
investment amount of$50,000. Setting a cap on investment would require those making this large an investment to
have a higher net worth and/or annual income to meet the minimal investment amount, if based on percentage of
income.
4 Report at 89.

1100 HStreet, NW Suite 1200 Washington, DC 20005 (202) 628-5055 www.sbia.org

Mr. BrentJ . Fields
Page 4of4

ideological special interest groups and others highlighting the "need" to raise these thresholds for
the sake of raising them, rather than providing its own independent research from the Division of
Economic and Risk Analysis ("DERA").5 A close review of some of the letters relied upon in
the Report highlights that while they advocate for an increase in the threshold because of erosion
by inflation, they provide no data supporting that investors are being harmed by the current
definition, nor do they explain why the reduction in available capital for investment should be
outweighed by their investor protection concerns. 6 Given the significant impact in changes to
the definition, more research is needed before any action is taken by the Commission. Without
independent research on the harm to investors presented by the current thresholds, and
appropriate cost-benefit analysis against the impact oflimiting investment opportunities and
capital for economic growth, the SEC should move deliberately when considering the adoption
of the Report's recommendations.
SBIA is happy to provide continued feedback on this important issue to our membership. Please
contact SBIA's General Counsel, Christopher Hayes, at (
or
if
we can provide additional assistance on this issue.
Sincerely,

Brett Palmer
President
Small Business Investor Alliance

5

Report at 44-51.
See Letter to the SEC from the American Federation of Labor and Congress oflndustrial Organizations, Comments
on Amendments to Regulation D, Form D and Rule 156, File No. S7-06-13, September 23, 2013, available at
http://www.aflcio.org/index.php/content/download/102841/2718291/AFL-CIO+comment+letter+on+File+No+S7­
06-13.pdf; Letter to the SEC from the Consumer Federation of America, Comments on Amendments to Regulation
D, Form D and Rule 156, File No. S7-06-13, September 23, 2013, available at:
http://www.consumerfed.org/pd(s!CFA-Comment-on-GS-proposal-9-23-13.pdf; Letter to the SEC from North
American Securities Administrators Association (NASAA), NASAA Comments in Response to Release Nos. 33­
9416, 34-69960, JC-30595 (File No. S7-06-13), "Amendments to Regulation D, Form D and
Rule 156 under the Securities Act", File No. S7-06-13, September 27, 2013, available at: http://www.nasaa.org/wp­
content/uploads/2011/07/NASAA-Comment-Letter-re-Form-D.pdf
6

1100 HStreet, NW Suite 1200 Washington, DC 20005 (202) 628-5055 www.sbia.org

