Ava Badiee
JD, University of California, Irvine School of Law
May 10, 2016
Mr. Brent J. Fields
Secretary
Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F. Street, N.E.
Washington, D.C. 2 0549
Re: File No. 4-692—Comment on Review of the Definition of “Accredited Investor”
Dear Mr. Fields:
I am submitting this comment letter in response to the SEC’s review of the definition of an
accredited investor within Regulation D. This comment is in the form of an essay on the issue and
overall recommends that the SEC 1) adjust the net worth threshold for inflation, and 2) adopt a
sophistication test. The comment focuses on the history of accreditation standards, the changing
investment landscape, and the intent behind the adoption of the Securities Act and Regulation D.
INTRODUCTION
The existence of fraud in the securities industry resulted in state and federal regulators
adopting securities regulatory schemes to protect investors. State securities laws seek to protect
investors by evaluating the merits of a securities offering—ensuring that the security being offered is
not too speculative. The federal securities laws, on the other hand, aim to protect investors by
providing the public with full disclosure of the character of securities sold. Both the federal and
state laws have successfully eliminated a large amount of fraudulent offerings, however, this paper
will mainly focus on federal securities laws—specifically the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities
Act”).
In imposing disclosure requirements, the Securities Act delineates two types of securities
offerings: public and private. Public offerings must be registered and approved by the SEC, while
private offerings are exempt from these requirements. Initially, exemptions were decided by the size

	

1
	

and manner of the offering, among other things, but in 1953, the Supreme Court clarified the scope
of what qualifies as a public offering. The Court determined that certain financially sophisticated
individuals do not need the full protection of federal securities laws and can claim exemptions from
mandatory disclosure requirements.
This concept has materialized into a number of active accreditation laws and regulations, the
most important of which is the accredited investor definition in Regulation D, which is an
exemption from the mandatory registration and disclosure requirements of the Securities Act.
Because Rule 506 of Regulation D is the most utilized exemption from Securities Act requirements,
the definition of an accredited investor plays a significant role in capital formation and the
investment world. With Dodd-Frank’s mandate that the rules be reviewed every four years, the
inadequacies and strengths of the current standard are widely debated with a large group of
individuals arguing that the standard be expanded beyond a strictly wealth-based requirement.
Part I of this paper will examine the emergence of accreditation standards. Part II will
evaluate the current investment landscape. Part III will analyze the current accredited investor
definition. Ultimately, I conclude that by adjusting the current standard for inflation, and
incorporating a sophistication test, the definition will more effectively comport with the concerns of
the Securities Act, the Supreme Court, and the current investment landscape.
I.

Emergence of an Accreditation Standard

a. Blue Sky Laws and the Securities Act of 1933
1. The Rise of Securities Regulation in the United States
The regulation of securities issuances in the United States dates back to the early twentieth
century. The growth of industry in the United States spurred the availability of investment

	

2
	

opportunities, particularly in railroad and municipal bonds.1 While earlier securities were generally
reliable investments, by 1910, there was a surge in the sale of speculative securities.2 Speculative
securities purported to pay a higher rate of return than traditional securities, which attracted
investors because of rising interest rates.3 Furthermore, promoters of these securities engaged in
deceptive advertising techniques, including the promotion of non-existent mines, Central American
plantations and irrigation systems.4 Promoters of worthless stock would buy and sell “sucker lists,”
which are lists comprised of the names of individuals who had previously purchased worthless
securities.5 The victims of these deceptive and targeting advertising techniques were often middleclass Americans, including farmers and widows.6 As a result, the public grew greatly concerned over
the sale of these securities.
In 1911, Joseph Dolley, the Kansas Banking Commissioner, responded to these concerns by
successfully lobbying for the implementation of the first “blue sky bill,” to ensure that Investment
Companies were regulated and supervised, and punished for fraudulent activity.7 The law required
Investment Companies selling securities in Kansas to obtain a license, file regular reports of financial
condition, reports of a business plan, and a copy of all securities proposed for sale.8 The bank
commissioner was authorized to ban an investment company from the State if he concluded that the
information about the security contained unfair, unjust, inequitable or oppressive provisions, or if
the investment company was not solvent, did not intent to do a fair and honest business, and did
																																																								
1
Jonathan R. Macey & Geoffrey P. Miller, Origin of Blue Sky Laws, 70 Tex. L. Rev. 347, 353 (1991).

2
Id.

32
Id..

Id
34
North American Securities Administrators Association, A Century of Investor Protection 1 (1911Id.
4
North American Securities Administrators Association, A Century of Investor Protection 1 (19112011).

5
H.B. Matthews, The “Sucker List,” 86 BANKERS MAG. 174, 174 (1913).

6
North American Securities Administrators Association, A Century of Investor Protection 1 (19112011)

7
Id. at 2.

8
Macey, supra note 1, at 360.

	

3
	

not promise a fair return on the stocks, bonds, or other securities offered for sale. The law
immediately began to have positive effects. Many companies withdrew their applications after
finding out about the investigatory process, and many criminals fled the state after finding out about
the strict fines and penalties.9 In the 18 months following the law's enactment, of the 1,500
companies that applied to conduct business in Kansas, only 100 were approved.10 The success of
this law inspired other states, and even other countries, to implement similar laws.11
In October 1929, federal lawmakers began regulating securities because of the collapse of
the financial markets. The Securities Act was enacted in 1933 to “provide full and fair disclosure of
the character of securities sold in interstate and foreign commerce and through the mails, and to
prevent frauds in the sale thereof.”12 The purpose of the statute was to protect ordinary investors
from inadequate disclosures, fraudulent stock dealings, and to establish confidence in the market for
newly issued securities.13 In pursuit of this goal, Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act requires issuers
to comply with registration and disclosure requirements when engaging in public offerings, and
provides exemptions for certain private offerings. The legislative history of the Act shows that the
private offering exemption allowed an issuer to sell its securities to a particular person where there
was no practical need for the bill’s application or the benefits were too remote.14 While considering
what constitutes a “transaction . . . not involving a public offering” under the Act, the Supreme
Court in Ralston Purina clarified how this language applied to individuals by articulating the first
investor accreditation exemption for natural persons in securities law.
																																																								
R. Macey & Geoffrey P. Miller, Origin of Blue Sky Laws, 70 Tex. L. Rev. 347, 353 (1991). It

is important to note that the success of the Kansas Blue Sky Law has been historically contested 

with some saying that the success of the law was widely exaggerated.

10
North American Securities Administrators Association, supra note 4, at 2.

11
Id. 

12
Preamble to Securities Act; S. REP. 73-792. 

13
77 Cong. Rec. 937 (1933).

14
H.R. REP. NO. 73-85, 15–16

9	Jonathan

	

4
	

b. Ralston Purina’s Development of the Investor Accreditation Exemption
In Ralston Purina, the Court articulated the criteria to consider when determining the
availability of what is now the Section 4(a)(2) exemption.15 Ralston Purina was a manufacturer and
distributor of various feed and cereal products operating throughout the United States and
Canada.16 The company encouraged employees to purchase its stock, selling nearly $2,000,000 of
stock to employees without complying with the registration requirements of the Securities Act.17
The stocks were available to any “key employee” willing to purchase the stock at market value.
This resulted in employees in all echelons of the corporate hierarchy purchasing the stock,
including “employees with the duties of an artist, bakeshop foreman, chow loading foreman,
clerical assistant, copywriter, electrician, stock clerk, mill office clerk, order credit trainee,
production trainee, stenographer, and veterinarian.”18
After examining the legislative purpose of the statute to protect investors, the Court
concluded that the exemption should turn on whether “the particular class of persons affected needs
the protection of the Act.”19 Thus, the Court found that a private offering is “an offering to those
who are shown to be able to fend for themselves.” 20 The touchstone of the exemption was the
knowledge of the offeree, specifically whether the person had access to information typically

																																																								
15
At the time of Ralston Purina, the predecessor of 4(a)(2) involving a transaction "not involving

any public offering" was then-present in § 4(1). May 27, 1933, ch. 38, title I, § 4, 48 Stat. 77. It was

redenominated as 4(2) in 1964. Pub. L. 88–467, § 12, Aug. 20, 1964, 78 Stat. 580.

16
SEC v. Ralston Purina, 346 U.S. 119, 120 (1953).

17
Id. at 121.

18
Id. 

19
Id. at 125 (emphasis added).

20
Id.

	

5
	

available in a registration statement.21 The Court noted that executive personnel, unlike the
petitioners here, would likely fall within this exemption because their position would give them 

unique access to this information.22 Ultimately, Ralston Purina’s stock issuances to employees

were not found to fall within the exemption under the predecessor to Rule 4(a)(2) because its

employees were not shown to have access to information a registration would disclose.23

c. Administrative and Statutory Investor Accreditation Schemes
Using Ralston Purina as a platform, lower Courts began to develop methods to determine
when the exemption applied. Some developed numerical thresholds when determining if there has
been a public offering,24 while others reasoned, “wealthy persons and certain other persons such as
lawyers, accountants and businessmen are ‘sophisticated’ investors who are not in need of the
protections afforded by the Act.” 25 Due to the inconsistent application of the exemption and
concerns over the ability of small businesses to raise capital, in 1974, the SEC responded to the
rise in private offerings by adopting Rule 146 to clarify for issuers when Rule 4(2) exemptions
applied. The Commission believed that:
creating greater certainty in the application of the Section 4(2) exemption would be in the
public interest for two reasons; first to provide objective standards upon which responsible
businessmen may rely and also to deter reliance on that section for offerings of securities to
persons who are unable to fend for themselves in terms of obtaining information about the
issuer and of assuming the risk of investment.26
Under Rule 146, an issuer had to meet three requirements for an offering to be exempt from
the registration requirements of the Securities Act. First, the issuer must have reasonably believed
																																																								
Ralston Purina, 346 U.S. at 125.

22
Id.

23
Id. at 127.

24
SEC, Notice of proposed rule 146 under the securities act of 1933--“transactions by an issuer

deemed not to involve any public offering and related form 146” and notice of a proposal to amend 

rule 257 under such act -- “offerings not in excess of $50,000, Release No. 5336 (November 28, 

1972).

25
Release No. 5336 (November 28, 1972).

26
Id.
21

	

6
	

that the purchaser had the requisite knowledge and experience in financial matters to evaluate the
risks of an investment or who could bear the economic risks of an investment. Second, the
purchaser had to have the requisite knowledge and experience in financial matters unless they had
hired a representative with this knowledge. Finally, the issuer had to offer the offeree information
available in a registration statement. 27 In sum, whether an individual can bear the economic risk
of the offering, and whether the individual is financially sophisticated based on knowledge,
experience, and ability to evaluate risk of loss.28
In 1978, there was a growing concern for the ability of small businesses to raise capital due
to the high costs of compliance with mandated registration and disclosure requirements. This
prompted the SEC to adopt Rule 242, which introduced the accredited investor concept into
federal securities law. Under Rule 242, certain domestic and Canadian issuers could sell their
securities to an unlimited number of accredited investors or up to 35 non-accredited investors.
Rule 242 defined an accredited investor as a person purchasing $100,000 of issuer’s securities, an
executive officer or director of the issuer or a specified type of entity, and did not require issuers
to provide accredited investors with information provided in a registration filing.29
Congress responded to ongoing need for federal securities law reform by enacting the Small
Business Investment Act of 1980 (Small Business Act), which again utilized an investor
accreditation standard. The Act provided an exemption under Section 4(6) for offers and sales
solely to accredited investors, defined as “any person who, on the basis of such factors as financial
sophistication, net worth, knowledge, and experience in financial matters, or amount of assets
																																																								
C. Edward Fletcher III, Sophisticated Investors Under the Federal Securities Laws, 1988 DUKE
L.J. 1081

28
https://www.sec.gov/spotlight/investor-advisory-committee-2012/investment-advisoraccredited-definition.pdf. 

29
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Report on the Review of the Definition of “Accredited Investor”, 

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Dec. 18, 2015.
27

	

7
	

under management qualifies as an accredited investor under rules and regulations which the
Commission shall prescribe.” 30
d. Regulation D
In 1982, after re-evaluating the exemption scheme under the Securities Act and
discovering the previous standards restrained the ability of small businesses to raise capital, the
SEC again utilized the accredited investor concept by adopting Regulation D.31 Rules 501-506 of
Regulation D list the exemptions from the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
Rule 506, which succeeded Rule 146, provides exemptions to: (1) accredited investors, and
(2) up to 35 non-accredited investors if they have a financial advisor. Currently, both entities and
natural persons can qualify as accredited investors. With respect to natural persons, an individual is
an accredited investor if that person has (1) earned income exceeding $200,000 (or $300,000
together with a spouse in each of the prior two years, and reasonably expects to make the same
amount for the current year),32 or (2) has a net worth over $1 million, either alone or together with
a spouse and excluding a primary residence.33 The net worth and income threshold were meant to
ensure adequate financial experience, sophistication, and bargaining power.34 Because under Rule
506 an issuer can sell an unlimited amount of securities to an unlimited amount of accredited
investors, it is preferred over Rules 504 and 505. As a result, 95% of Regulation D offerings are
issued under Rule 506, making it the predominant capital market tool under Regulation D.35
																																																								
Small Business Investment Incentive Act § 603.

31
Revision of Certain Exemptions From Registration for Transactions Involving Limited Offers and 

Sales. 47 FR 11251-01 (march 16, 1982). 47 FR 11262

32
While the $200,000 threshold has been in place since 1982, the $300,000 threshold, including

spousal income, was established in 1988. See Regulation D Revisions, 53 Fed. Reg. 7866 (Mar. 10,

1988).

33
Regulation D, Rule 501 (a)

34
Proposed Revision of Certain Exemptions from the Registration Provisions of the Securities Act

of 1933 For Transactions Involving Limited Offers and Sales, 46 Fed. Reg. 41791 (Aug. 18, 1981).

35
DERA October Report

30

	

8
	

Furthermore, as of 2012, accredited investors accounted for 92% of reported Regulation D
offerings.36 In fact, most offerings are issued almost exclusively to accredited investors, especially
in the venture capital context,37 and about 99% of private offerings are conducted under
Regulation D.38 Consequently, the accredited investor threshold is extremely important in the
realm of private placement.
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank) requires
the SEC to review this threshold beginning in 2014 and every four years thereafter to determine
whether the threshold “should be adjusted or modified for the protection of investors, in the
public interest, and in light of the economy.” 39
e. Other Accreditation Standards
Investor qualification exemptions are common in the financial regulatory world. There
are several other laws and regulations implementing financial thresholds exempting issuers from
complying with laws and regulations attached to certain transactions. These standards were
adopted to provide exemptions to natural persons40 that possess a high level of financial
sophisticated necessary to not need the protection of applicable laws and regulations. The
thresholds incorporate one of two qualifiers: an individual’s investments or net worth.
A majority of these accreditation thresholds are based solely on investment experience,
which reflects both Congress’ and the financial regulator’s perception that investment experience
signals financial sophistication. We will evaluate a few examples. First, Rule 2(a)(51)(A) of the
Investment Company Act exempts certain issuers from the definition of an “investment
																																																								
36
DERA October Report.

37
Steven J. Choi, Securities Regulation Cases and Analysis 562 (4th Ed. 2015); DERA 34 (“private

offerings by VC funds only rarely include non-accredited investors (only 1% of offerings have at

least one such investor.”).

38
DERA October Report.

39
Dodd-Frank Act Section 413(B).

40
Many of these also apply to entities, but that is outside of the scope of this paper.

	

9
	

company” where sales of securities are made solely to Qualified Purchasers, which is defined as an
individual with $5 million in investments.41 These investors were thought to be sufficiently
financially sophisticated to evaluate the risks associated with investment pools not protected by the
Investment Company Act.42 Second, Section 18(b)(3) of the Securities Act exempts offerings to
Qualified Purchasers from state securities registration and qualification requirements. For
purposes of Regulation A offerings, Qualified Purchasers are any person to whom securities are
sold in a Tier 2 offering, which is an offering of up to $50 million in a twelve-month period,
including up to $15 million offered on behalf of security holders that are affiliates of the issuer.43
Third, Rule 3(a)(54) of the Exchange Act provides banks with exemptions from broker-dealer
registration when selling certain securities to qualified investors, which are individuals with $10
million in asset-backed securities and loan participations, and $25 million in other investments.
Similar to Rule 2(a)(51)(A), these qualifications were thought to suggest investor sophistication and
experience.44 Further, Rule 144A provides an exemption from the registration of federal securities
laws for resales of restricted securities to Qualified Institutional Buyers. A registered broker-dealer
qualifies as a Qualified Institutional Buyer if it owns and invests at least $10 million in securities of
issuers unaffiliated with the broker-dealer.45 Finally, under the Commodity Exchange Act Section
1a(18), an Eligible Contract Participant is able to engage in certain derivatives and swaps
																																																								
41
NSMIA § 209(b); Investment Company Act § 2(a)(51)(A).
42
https://www.sec.gov/rules/final/ic-22597.txt (“The Commission is adopting rules under the
Investment Company Act of 1940 to implement provisions of the National Securities Markets
Improvement Act of 1996 that apply to privately offered investment companies. The rules define
certain terms for purposes of the new exclusion from regulation under the Investment Company
Act for privately offered investment companies whose investors are all highly sophisticated
investors, termed "qualified purchasers.")
43
17 C.F.R. 230.256; Amendments for Small and Additional Issues Exemptions Under the Securities
Act (Regulation A), Release No. 33-9741 (Mar. 25, 2015) 80 FR 21806 (the “Regulation A+
Adopting Release”).
44
See Exemption of Certain Foreign Brokers or Dealers, Release No. 34-58047 (June 27, 2008) [73
FR 39182].
45
17 C.F.R. § 230.144A(a)(1)(ii).
	

10
	

transactions. An Eligible Contract Participant is an individual with $10 million in investments, or
$5 million in investments if hedging.
The examples above reflect that investment experience is thought indicative of an
investor’s ability to fend for himself. Of the existing accreditation standards, only one of the
standards incorporates a net worth requirement similar to the accredited investor standard. The
Advisers Act Rule 205-3 provides an exemption from the general rule that Investment Advisors
cannot charge performance fees to clients where the transaction involves a Qualified Client. A
Qualified Client is defined as an individual holding $1 million in assets under management with an
investment advisor, or $2 million in net worth excluding the value of a primary residence.46 These
thresholds are adjusted for inflation every five years.47 The $2 million net worth requirement is
similar to the accredited investor net worth requirement, but even under this provision, an
individual can also qualify as a Qualified Client based on his investments.
It is apparent that financial regulators and Congress seek to ensure that securities laws do
not inhibit the free market for investments by natural persons meeting the appropriate
qualifications. However, it is interesting to note that none of the existing accreditation standards
are based on net worth alone, and that every standard utilizes an investment experience
requirement. While the investment criteria are typically high and inherently allow only the wealthy
to qualify for these exemptions, the existence of investment criteria highlights that wealth alone is
insufficient and that investor sophistication is an important inquiry in establishing an accreditation
standard. The current accredited investor standard may need to be modified to comport with the
trends in these statutes and regulations.
																																																								
17 C.F.R. § 275.205-3(d); U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Report on the Review of the
Definition of “Accredited Investor”, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Dec. 18, 2015
(articulating that the Commission excluded primary residences from the net worth threshold to
promote regulatory consistency between this rule and the accredited investor definition).
47
17 C.F.R. § 275.205-3(e).
46

	

11
	

II.

Changing Investment Landscape

The SEC should modify the definition of an accredited investor to reflect current trends in
investment strategies by natural persons, and the private equity and venture capital market.
The demographic of persons investing in securities is markedly different than it was thirtyfour years ago when Regulation D was first adopted. After the 2008 financial crisis, the American
public’s confidence in the banking system hit an all-time low, and by 2012, public confidence in
banks was down to 21%, a nearly 40% drop in confidence from 1979 when the SEC first
contemplated the accredited investor definition .48 As a result, the public began increasingly
participating in small business investment opportunities.49 Middle-income and unsophisticated
investors are now turning to securities investments to save for retirement.50 This is the case even
though the private securities market has traditionally been considered a riskier investment than real
estate, and bonds. Despite the higher risks, some investors prefer private offerings because of the
potential for higher return.51
The shift in the investment strategy of the public has shed light on the significance of
private placements in today’s economy. Today, there are just as many private offerings as there
are public offerings.52 To demonstrate, in 2013, issuers utilizing Rule 506 raised over $1 trillion,
whereas issuers using public offerings raised $1.3 trillion. Much of this has to do with the fact that
companies are remaining private for much longer than they were in 1980. With a drop in the
number of early IPO issuances, private sourcing has become the predominant form of funding for
																																																								
48
Rebecca Riffkin, In U.S., Confidence in Banks Remains Low, ECONOMY (June 26, 2014),
http://www.gallup.com/poll/171995/confidence-banks-remains-low.aspx
49
Id.
50
Recommendation of the Investor Advisory Committee: Accredited Investor Definition (October

9, 2014)

51
See generally Timothy B. Lee, 4 charts that show how today's tech boom is different from the 1990s, Vox (Aug.

19, 2015)

52 52
Recommendation of the Investor Advisory Committee: Accredited Investor Definition, supra

note 50.

	

12
	

emerging companies.53 This chart demonstrates this trend as to technology companies, which
most actively utilize the Rule 506 exemption:54

While the public can still invest in public securities, the reality is that private securities have a
much greater potential for return. With companies remaining private for greater lengths of time,
there is less potential upside in investments made after the company has gone public.55 In contrast,
investors involved from a company’s inception have the potential for significant returns on their
investments. For example, Peter Thiel, who invested in Facebook from its inception, turned his
$500,000 investment into over $1 billion.56 Unfortunately, the reality is that a majority of private
offerings are completed using Rule 506, and although Rule 506 allows a limited number of nonaccredited investors to invest in an offering, most companies limit private offerings to only
accredited investors. For example, technology startups predominantly rely on rich investors rather
																																																								
Timothy B. Lee, 4 charts that show how today's tech boom is different from the 1990s, Vox (Aug. 19, 2015)
54
DERA Oct 27
55
Recommendation of the Investor Advisory Committee: Accredited Investor Definition, supra note
50.

56
Julianna Pepitone & Stacy Cowley, Facebook’s First Big Investor Cashes Out, CNN Money (Aug. 

20, 2012), http://money.cnn.com/2012/08/20/technology/facebook-peter-thiel/

53

	

13
	

than the general public to finance their growth.57 Because most Americans do not meet the wealth
requirements of Rule 506, they are unable to invest in companies like Facebook unless and until they
are traded publicly. Therefore, by denying non-wealthy investors access to the most lucrative
investment opportunities, Rule 506 discriminates against less wealthy prospective investors.
Pursuant to Dodd-Frank, the SEC should adopt a rule that more effectively balances access to
investment opportunities with investor protection.
III.

Re-thinking Regulation D

Dodd-Frank’s requirement that the SEC reconsider the accreditor investor standard has
created a sense of urgency amongst institutional investors. Changing investment and regulatory
trends compound the importance of a revision, and have promoted discourse within the financial
industries community. Much of this discourse has taken place through comments submitted to
the SEC. This Part will first reflect on what considerations the SEC should prioritize in
establishing a new rule, and then consider the positives and drawbacks of some proposed
approaches. This critical reflection demonstrates why the agency should incorporate a
sophistication test to compliment a higher wealth requirement.
a. Considerations Essential to the Inquiry
In coming up with a new standard, the Commission should balance administrability against the
underlying principles for the adoption of Regulation D. The exemption scheme under Rule 146,
which preceded Rule 506, made it difficult for issuers to identify who actually qualified as an
accredited investor. Consequently, administrability was a key consideration in the development of
the current threshold, which utilizes an objective, bright line rule for issuers and investors. While an
																																																								
57
Timothy B. Lee, 4 charts that show how today's tech boom is different from the 1990s, VOX, at 2 (Aug. 19,
2015)

	

14
	

objective rule is appealing, it does not fully capture everyone capable of making risky investments.
With the adoption of Rule 508’s safe harbor provision, which excuses issuances to non-accredited
investors made in good faith, the SEC has more flexibility in adopting a subjective standard.
While Rule 508 allows for the incorporation of subjective components, the SEC should still
develop a rule that issuers and regulatory bodies can easily apply. Therefore, the rule should possess
an objective threshold. Failing to do so will result in the same problems that troubled Rule 146 and
previous accreditation standards. The costs to the SEC in enforcing and clarifying grey areas of a
complex rule can be costly.58 Issuers may also be subject to litigation costs caused by unintended
violations of the law. Even if Rule 508 excuses some of these transactions, the costs in justifying
that one acted in good faith can still be considerable.59 The threat of unexpected costs might also
result in a problem prevalent with the current standard—although an issuer under Rule 506 can
issue a security to 35 non-accredited investors, most issuers do not do so in practice because of the
litigation and regulatory risks. Here, issuers might be deterred from selling securities to certain
qualified investors simply because of the risks involved.60
The new rule should also protect investors. The rule should neither be overinclusive or
underinclusive. If the rule is too lenient, investors that need the protection of the Securities Act
might not receive it. This would negate the purpose of the Securities Act and the Court in Ralston
Purina. If the rule is too strict, the same issues that affect the current standard will exist: qualified
investors will not be able to access lucrative investment opportunities.

																																																								
58
SEC’s Congressional Budget Report pp. 6, 15-16, 

https://www.sec.gov/about/reports/secfy16congbudgjust.pdf

59
Seth Lipner, Is Arbitration Really Cheaper, FORBES.COM (July 14, 2009),

http://www.forbes.com/2009/07/14/lipner-arbitration-litigation-intelligent-investing-cost.html

60
Life is Too Short to Deal with Non-Accredited Investors, STARTUPLAWYER.COM (June 12, 2008),

http://startuplawyer.com/seed-rounds/life-is-too-short-to-deal-with-non-accredited-investors

	

15
	

Finally, the new rule should encourage access to capital. Regulation D was adopted to
promote economic growth and access to capital for small businesses.61 Therefore, while investor
protection and the adoption of a non-discriminatory rule are important, a new rule should encourage
those ideals. Because many small businesses rely on Regulation D to raise capital, the standard
should seek to either maintain or expand the number of qualifying investors. A rule limiting the
number of qualifying investors could prove fatal to emerging companies forced to pay crippling
registration and disclosure costs.
b. Flaws of the Current Standard
There is currently a debate about whether to maintain the current standard. Some industry
professionals argue the standard is ineffective and outdated. Because the current standard is based
on a financial wealth, it assumes that wealthy individuals can make better-informed investments than
the rest of society. The standard presumes that wealthy persons have more personal investment
knowledge, possess the resources to hire persons with the knowledge to effectively assess
investment risks, and can better withstand the loss of a bad investment.
Others believe the current threshold should at the very least remain untouched. 62 The net
worth qualification is deemed the most important criteria in ensuring investor protection and capital
formation.63 Individuals argue that for the past thirty years, the current standard has effectively
allowed companies to raise capital while protecting investors. Limiting the amount of investors that
																																																								
The SEC was correct in acting to protect the growth of emerging companies through Regulation
D. Smaller companies play an important role in the U.S. economy today, creating a majority of new
jobs and driving the U.S. economy.
61
To illustrate, small businesses comprise 48.7 percent of private-sector employment and are
responsible for about 63 percent of new jobs. Integral to the ability to grow is the ability of these
small businesses to raise capital. Exempt offerings are now the predominant form of capital
formation.
62
http://www.angelcapitalassociation.org/blog/update-on-accredited-investor-definition-advisorycommittee-passes-recommendations-sec-itself-hasnt-acted/
63
GAO Alternative Criteria
61

	

16
	

qualify will substantially reduce the investment pool for companies. Furthermore, proponents argue
increasing the net worth and income requirements would provide only a marginal increase to
investor protection because most investors engage in due diligence when investing.64 This is
supported by a report by the SEC’s Investment Advisory Committee, which notes that “[t]he
connection between fraud and the current accredited investor thresholds seems tenuous at best.”65
The Committee was unaware of “any substantial evidence suggesting that the current definition of
accredited investor has contributed to the ability of fraudsters to commit fraud or has resulted in
greater exposure for potential victims.”66 This evaluation suggests that the current threshold
protects investors from financial fraud, which is consistent with the goals of the Securities Act.
This proposition has been widely critiqued. The standard does not fully exclude persons
who need the protection of the Securities Act, or more specifically people who can “fend for
themselves.” First, the standard over-simplifies factors necessary to determine “whether an
individual has the wealth and liquidity to shoulder the potential risks of private offerings.”67 Because
the wealth requirement has not been adjusted for inflation since 1982, the population that qualifies
under the current standard is dramatically larger than initially intended. One million dollars in 1982
is the equivalent of $2.43 million dollars in 2015.68 Furthermore, the average household income in
1982 was $20,17069 as compared to $52,250 in 2015.70 Thus, both of the eligibility requirements are
																																																								
64
GAO
65
Recommendation of the Investor Advisory Committee: Accredited Investor Definition (October
9, 2014)
66
Id.
67
Id.
68
Steven J. Choi, SECURITIES REGULATION CASES AND ANALYSIS 563 (4th ed. 2015).

69
Edward J. Welniak & Mary F. Henson, Money Income of Households, Families, and Persons in

the United States: 1982 (Feb. 1984).

70
How much do Americans earn in 2015? A comprehensive look at household income and 

individual earnings. GDP disconnects from household income,

http://www.mybudget360.com/how-much-do-americans-earn-in-2015-household-income-wagesreal-income-gdp/

	

17
	

effectively half of what they were when Regulation D was enacted. While increased access to these
investments is encouraged, access by unqualified investors undermines the goals of the Securities
Act and Regulation D. A person with a net worth of $1,000,000, today, might not be able to bear
the burden of loss from these high-risk investments.71 The standard does not measure the liquidity
of investors because it factors in assets like retirement savings and securities. Dodd-Frank addressed
the problem by removing the value of a primary residence from the net worth calculation, which
reduced qualifying investors by 25%.72 This decision, however, did not address the full breadth of
the problem. An individual’s additional assets, the number of working years left, and investments in
private offerings, retirement savings, and securities should also be considered. Therefore, the
current standard fails to account for the ability of an investor to actually withstand the loss of an illfated investment.
Second, a wealth-based threshold does not adequately measure financial competency.
$1,000,000 in net worth or $200,000 in yearly income will not necessarily give an individual more
financial competency to evaluate investment risks than someone without that capital. The
knowledge necessary to evaluate financial products is more extensive than it was when Regulation D
was enacted in 1982. Financial instruments and investment forums are becoming more complex,
and the new general solicitation rules will result in investment opportunities reaching more people.
Thus, investors are more susceptible to fraud, purchasing overvalued securities, and miscalculating
the value of certain investments.
																																																								
71
Small Business Capital Formation – Consolidated 2013 forum recommendations
Mary Jo White: “While it is hoped that many small businesses will grow and flourish and make
money for both entrepreneurs and investors, we should not lose sight of the heightened risks these
riskier enterprises pose for investors—through the higher risk of small business failure, the lower
liquidity of these securities, and, regretfully, the higher incidence of outright fraud in the small
business security markets.”
72
Devin Thorpe, SEC Mulls Changes to Accredited Investor Standards, 18 Crowdfunders React, FORBES.COM
(July 15. 2014), http://www.forbes.com/sites/devinthorpe/2014/07/15/sec-mulls-changes-toaccredited-investor-standards-18-crowdfunders-react/.
	

18
	

By catering solely to those who can financially withstand a loss, this threshold discriminates
against certain sophisticated investors who can better evaluate the risks of a transaction. Some of
the wealthiest individuals have low financial literacy.73 A person able to financially bear the loss
from a poor investment might not be able to evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of certain
transactions. To illustrate this paradox, while someone like Paris Hilton can invest, on her own, in
high-risk and complex securities, an industry professional with an advanced degree and technical
experience did not meet the threshold will be prohibited in doing so. In short, the current standard
is inadvertently overinclusive and underinclusive.
Taken together, it is clear that while there may be differences in thought as to where the
financial threshold should be, the current standard should at least be adjusted to include persons with
adequate financial sophistication to fend for themselves.
c. Approach in the United Kingdom
The current threshold should mirror some aspects of the U.K.’s requirements for equity
investments. A comparison of the two approaches is logical considering the Securities Act was
modeled after the U.K. Companies Act of the day.74 Currently the Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA), the English equivalent of the SEC, has utilized a wealth based and sophistication
requirement. 75 The wealth-based threshold is similar to the current threshold of the United States,
albeit lower with regards to the net worth standard. An individual making €100,000, or with a net
worth of €250,000 (excluding primary residence) can invest in certain private equity-based

																																																								
Recommendation of the Investor Advisory Committee: Accredited Investor Definition (October

9, 2014).

74
George J. Benston, review, Tim Bush, “Divided by Common Language,” Where Economics Meets the Law:

US versus non-US Financial Reporting Models, 83 THE ACCOUNTING REV. 549, 549 (2008).

75
Anthony Zeoli, Changes to “Accredited Investor” Definition Could Clip the Wings of Angel Investors, 

CROWDFUND INSIDER (June 19, 2014), http://www.crowdfundinsider.com/2014/06/42279changes-accredited-investor-definition-clip-wings-angel-investors/.

73

	

19
	

investments. 76 Further, an investor can qualify under the sophistication qualification by taking an
exam tailored by the issuer based on the specific investment and associated risks, or by using selfcertification.77 Under this approach, not only has the private placement industry grown
tremendously, but there has been an almost “non-existent rate of investor fraud.” 78 Therefore, in
thinking about the new definition, this standard can serve as guidance.
d. Adjusting The Threshold For Inflation
The SEC should adjust the current financial threshold for inflation to better identify those
who can withstand a loss and understand investment risks. Certain industry specialists affirm this
sentiment. Only three percent of investors, as opposed to the 7.4 percent of investors that currently
qualify, will be considered accredited investors if the threshold is adjusted. 79 An adjustment would
thereby eliminate sixty percent of currently eligible investors.
Faced with these statistics, angel investors are advocating keeping the current threshold in
place. At least one fourth of angel investors will no longer qualify if the threshold is adjusted for
inflation. Concerned with the impact on small businesses, these investors argue that a heightened
threshold will deny emerging companies access to capital formation. This financial burden is
compounded by the strict registration and disclosure requirements of the Securities Act. Not only
are the private and public markets comparative in size, but companies are increasingly relying on
exemptions in the early-stages of formation. With these concerns in mind, in 2015, the Advisory

																																																								
76
http://www.crowdfundinsider.com/2014/06/42279-changes-accredited-investor-definition-clipwings-angel-investors/
77
Id.
78
Id.
79
Recommendation of the Investor Advisory Committee: Accredited Investor Definition (October
9, 2014).
	

20
	

Committee on Small and Emerging Companies recommended that any changes to the definition
should expand the number of persons eligible as accredited investors.80
These concerns are valid, but neglect the purpose of the investor accreditation standards: to
protect investors who cannot fend for themselves. As noted above, wealth does not necessarily
equal financial literacy, and the standards no longer measure who can financially withstand a poor
investment. Increasing the threshold will remedy these weaknesses. Furthermore, the SEC can
adjust the threshold while still increasing the number of qualifying investors simply by adopting a
supplementary means of qualification, discussed below.
Furthermore, as illustrated above, the existence of higher qualifying thresholds in similar
statutes illustrates that the SEC should adjust this threshold for inflation. Under the Investment
Company Act of 1940, if a private fund has over one hundred investors, all of the investors must be
“qualified purchasers” to be exempt under 3(c)(7). A natural person must have no less than five
million dollars in investments to be considered a qualified purchaser. Under the Advisers Act, if a
fund manager is registered with the SEC, the fund’s clients must all be “qualified clients” for the
fund manager to receive performance-based compensation. A person is considered a qualified client
when he or she has more than $1.5 million dollars in assets.
Overall, the current wealth-based threshold should be adjusted for inflation to better
comport with the protections of the Securities Act, and identify the class of persons Regulation D
intended to exclude.
e. Incorporating a Sophistication Test
Having determined that the current standard should be adjusted for inflation, the SEC
should consider supplementing the wealth standard with a sophistication standard. Doing so would
better identify individuals that can evaluate investment risks, while promoting access to capital for
																																																								
Advisory Committee Recommendation (2015 March 5).

80

	

21
	

small businesses. The challenge is devising a test that adequately identifies a sophisticated investor.
So far, different criteria have been suggested, including an experience-based model, certain financial
securities licenses, academic accomplishments, and an exam.81 We will consider each of these in
turn.
1. Experience-Based Model
Professional experience is one indicator of a sophisticated investor. Proponents of an
experience-based model suggest individuals with certain professional credentials should qualify as
accredited investors because they can better evaluate investment risks. 82 The difficulty with the
experience-based model is ascertaining which experiences reflect adequate investor sophistication,
especially because different investment considerations apply to offerings in different industries.
Some proponents offer the Series 7 license and Chartered Financial Analyst designation as a
guidepost. 83 A Series 7, General Securities Representative, exam tests the competency of a general
representative in selling securities.84 Because a person that passes this exam can sell securities to the
public, he or she should be able to invest his or her money in those same securities. While a Series 7
license or a Chartered Financial Analyst designation can indicate financial sophistication, not
everyone capable of investing in private offerings would be covered by a sophistication test based
solely on these qualifications. For example, a Series 7 license is only available to persons sponsored
by a member firm of either FINRA or a self-regulatory organization, which is not the case for every
																																																								
81
During the SEC’s Small Business Capital Formation Forum in 2013, a breakout group asked the
Commission to “consider additional separate categories of qualification for accredited investors
based upon passing an SEC-approved examination, or based upon various types of sophistication,
such as education, experience or training, including, without limitation, persons holding FINRA
licenses, or CPA or CFA designations.” Small Business Capital Formation – Consolidated 2013
forum recommendations.
82
Recommendation of the Investor Advisory Committee: Accredited Investor Definition (October
9, 2014)
83
Id.
84
http://www.finra.org/industry/series7.
	

22
	

sophisticated investor. Therefore, other financial industry professionals should also qualify under
the accreditation standard.
Investment experience can also indicate financial sophistication. 85 An individual’s securities
portfolio, or membership in an angel group or similar investment group, is a relevant consideration.
This standard, by itself, is difficult to implement and regulate, and issuers are at greater risk for
liability because of the difficulty of ascertaining sophistication on these qualifiers alone. For
example, an angel group member can still be unqualified to evaluate an investment risk of certain
offerings. Furthermore, an individual with a diverse or even successful investment portfolio might
not be financially sophisticated as luck, advice, and other external factors might have contributed to
his or her holdings.
2. Education Based Model
An individual’s educational credentials can indicate financial sophistication. If the definition
of an accredited investor were to include an education-based threshold, certain credentials would
serve as automatic qualifiers. While this approach is easily administrable, it is problematic for many
reasons. First, it is not clear what degrees should qualify under the standard. For example, a labor
and employment attorney would likely lack the requisite experience to invest in a technology startup. The same goes for persons with PhDs and Masters. None of these degrees, even if related to
financial industries, would guarantee that an individual could evaluate the risks associated with
securities in specific industries. A person with an Economics PhD could have focused on a niche
area of economics such as development economics. Therefore, like the wealth standard, this
standard by itself could be underinclusive and overinclusive, and would not be the most effective
way of ensuring that an investor can competently evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of a
security.
																																																								
85
Release No. 33-8828: IC-27922: File No. S7-17-07.
	

23
	

3. A Financial Sophistication Test
While both the professional and academic experience models provide potential methods of
determining investor sophistication, an ideal gauge of financial sophistication would incorporate
different components of each test. For this reason, some have advocated for the administration of a
third-party test to determine whether someone qualifies as an accredited investor. Ideally, this test
will be approved and monitored by the SEC or FINRA
The underlying goals of such a test would be administrability, accuracy, cost-effectiveness,
and fairness. While the test should accurately identify as many sophisticated investors as possible,
the questions on the exam should be straightforward to avoid over-burdening the administering
entity. One of the appeals of the current wealth-based standard is that it is easily administrable and
easy to regulate. The more complex the test, the more difficult it will be for regulators to identify
sophisticated investors. Even though an exam that evaluates the totality of each investors
experience would be ideal, such an exam would be costly for the government, and a likely somewhat
inaccurate predicator for sophistication. It goes without saying that federal agencies are already
overburdened with work, and funding for such an exam would be difficult to procure. Also, the
time spent evaluating the inevitable flood of exams could be better spent addressing other impacting
issues. Furthermore, the review process might produce arbitrary results. The outcome of an
individual application could depend on the individual reviewing the application, which could result
in different results between equal applicants.
f. My Proposal
After examining the above approaches, I recommend the SEC adjust the wealth component
for inflation, and incorporate a financial sophistication test. Adjusting the threshold for inflation
would ensure that only people that can withstand the loss of a bad investment would qualify, but a
sophistication test would recapture those capable of evaluating faulty investments excluded by the
	

24
	

heightened threshold. The SEC should partner with FINRA, which has a proven track record of
administering numerous examinations, such as the Series 7 exam discussed above, meaning that
relevant administrative bureaucracy and processes are already in place.86 Costs would be limited
because only a motivated, self-selecting group of people who did not qualify based on the adjusted
wealth threshold would take the test; and because reasonable fees similar to those in place for
existing FINRA exams would be assessed.87To address any concerns regarding a sophisticated
investor’s ability to withstand a loss, the SEC could incorporate an additional limit to how much an
individual can invest in securities based on net worth or annual income—similar to the
crowdfunding limitations.88 Overall, this new standard would accommodate some of the concerns
of angel investors and small businesses, while comporting with the goals of the Securities Act and
Regulation D—protecting investors and promoting small business capital formation.
E. CONCLUSION
Dodd-Frank’s requirement that the SEC reconsider the definition of an accredited investor
for natural persons indicates that the current standard is no longer adequate for today’s investment
landscape. In analyzing the impacts of the standard, it is clear that it no longer adequately protects
the interests served by the Securities Act. My proposal would likely comport with the interests of
the Securities Act, Regulation D, and the investment landscape. Adjusting the threshold for inflation
ensures that investors meeting the financial threshold can both withstand a loss and retain the
services of an individual capable of analyzing a risky security. Furthermore, a sophistication test
																																																								
http://www.finra.org/industry/qualification-exams
87
Id.
88
Under the new crowdfunding regulations, if an individual’s net worth or annual income is less
than $100,000, an investor may invest the greater of $2,000 or 5% of the lesser of his or her net
worth or annual income. However, if both net worth and annual income are greater than $100,000,
an investor may invest up to 10% of the lesser of his or her annual income or net worth. Brian Burt
et. al, What in House Attorneys Need to Know about Crowdfunding, LAW.COM,
//www.law.com/sites/articles/2016/02/26/what-in-house-attorneys-need-to-know-aboutcrowdfunding/#ixzz43NfiJvtL
86

	

25
	

would allow persons with the financial acumen to fend for themselves to invest in high-risk, highreturn securities despite not meeting the financial thresholds. While heightening the financial
threshold would eliminate a large percentage of persons that currently qualify, the sophistication test
would recapture those capable of making these investments. Therefore, while small businesses might
suffer a loss, it is not clear any loss would be significantly deleterious to capital formation because a
sophistication test will open the gates for investors able and willing to participate in private
placements notwithstanding less extensive wealth. In addition, companies would retain the option of
going public to pursue further investors. Ultimately, the SEC should heighten the financial
threshold and adopt a financial sophistication exam to best address the concerns of both regulators
and investors.

	

26
	

