Advanced Education for

Investment & Wealth Professionals


	

March 29, 2016

Mr. Brent J. Fields
Secretary
Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, N.E.
Washington, D.C. 20549-1090
Re: December 18, 2015, Report on the Review of the Definition of
‘Accredited Investor’
Dear Mr. Fields,
Investment Management Consultants Association (“IMCA”)1 appreciates the
opportunity to submit comments to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC” or
“Commission”) on the definition of Accredited Investor (the “Definition”).
Our comments are directed at two of the SEC staff recommendations contained
in the Dec. 18, 2015, Report on the Review of the Definition of ‘Accredited Investor’
(“Staff Report”). Overall, IMCA is strongly supportive of the comprehensive review
undertaken by SEC staff and of the recommendation to allow individuals to qualify under
the Definition based on other measures of sophistication, including certain professional
credentials.2 In addition, we encourage the Commission to approve an exam available to
individual investors to meet a financial sophistication test,3 and allow the private sector to
have the opportunity to develop and administer the exam.
I.

Background

The Dodd-Frank reform act requires the Commission to review the Definition
every four years. As a result, the current review process has attracted considerable
attention from trade and consumer groups, two of the SEC’s advisory committees, and
Congress.4 The Staff Report offers no less than 10 options for updating the Definition.

																																																								
1

IMCA was established in 1985 to deliver premier investment consulting and wealth
management credentials. IMCA’s 10,000 members manage approximately $2.5 trillion in assets
for individual and institutional clients. IMCA members represent the spectrum of investment
businesses: full-service brokerage firms, national and regional independent brokerage firms,
independent registered investment advisory firms, banks, trust companies, asset management
firms, independent institutional consultants or their affiliates.

2

See Staff Report, Recommendation 2.B., “Permit Individuals With Certain Professional
Credentials to Qualify as Accredited Investors,” Dec. 18, 2015, at 93. (Available at
https://www.sec.gov/corpfin/reportspubs/special-studies/review-definition-of-accredited-investor­
12-18-2015.pdf.)
3

Id.¸ 2.E., “Permit Individuals Who Pass an Accredited Investor Examination to Qualify as
Accredited Investors,” at 96.

4

See, e.g. H.R. 2187, the “Fair Investment Opportunities for Professional Experts Act,”
legislation that would, among other things, expand the Definition to include certain professional
advisors. H.R. 2187 passed the House on Feb. 1, 2016, in a 347-8 vote, and was referred to
the Senate Banking Committee for further review.	

	

There is little question that much of the interest in changing the Definition is driven by
policy and economic tensions over the appropriate balance between promoting capital
formation and protecting investors.
IMCA’s mission is to administer certifications for and deliver education to
investment consulting and wealth management professionals who are subject to its
Code of Professional Responsibility and federal and state laws. Although IMCA’s
position on policy issues is derived largely from an educational perspective, we are also
interested in policy issues that may have a direct impact on IMCA’s registered marks.5
Examination content for IMCA’s professional certifications covers the definition of
accredited investor and other topics related to private offerings,6 including liquidity
needs, attributes of risk, and equity valuation methods. These are some of the same
criteria identified by a 2013 Government Accountability Office report “as the most
important for balancing investor protection and capital formation.”7
Most of IMCA’s members serve high-net-worth clients who already meet the
Definition. As a result they have developed an understanding of these investment
alternatives through experience advising their clients on the appropriate role and
suitability of private placements in a portfolio.
A. Risks of Unregistered Offerings in a Portfolio Context
If the Commission were to add financial advisors and their clients to the pool of
accredited investors, it is likely that many advisors – or at least those adhering to a
prudence standard8 – would formulate recommendations based on the role of an
unregistered offering in a portfolio constructed around certain asset classes. In this
instance, most private placements would fit in the category of micro-cap or small-cap
stocks. According to an analysis by the Commission’s Division of Economic and Risk
Analysis, most private offerings have a median offer size of less than $2 million.9
Although the “small cap” effect is believed to generate higher investment returns than
large company stocks, most advisors generally agree that the tradeoff is increased

																																																								
5

IMCA’s 10,000 members include 7,225 Certified Investment Management Analyst (“CIMA®”)
and 941 Certified Professional Wealth Advisor (“CPWA®”) professionals.

6
We use the terms “private placements,” “private offerings” and unregistered offerings”
interchangeably throughout this comment letter.
7

Alternative Criteria for Qualifying as an Accredited Investor Should be Considered, Executive
Summary, GAO Report, July 18, 2013. (Available at http://www.gao.gov/assets/660/655963.pdf.)
8

Prudence can be defined in different ways, but for purposes of this reference, it is the standard
followed by advisors to trusts and ERISA plans. Under ERISA section 404(a)(1)(B), fiduciaries
must understand and apply generally accepted investment theories, such as the modern portfolio
theory, which requires diversification of assets to reduce risk. Often this is done by portfolio
weightings of various asset classes that may include small-cap stocks.

9

Scott Bauguess, Rachita Gullapalli, and Vladimir Ivanov, Capital Raising in the U.S.: An
Analysis of the Market for Unregistered Securities Offerings, 2009-2014, U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, October 2015, at 2. (Available at https://www.sec.gov/dera/staff­
papers/white-papers/unregistered-offering10-2015.pdf.)		

2
	

risk.10 The authors of a 2010 research report published in IMCA’s Journal of Investment
Consulting agree, concluding that, in order to succeed when focusing on micro-cap
mutual funds, “the micro-cap analyst will need to guess right with respect to the
economic environment in addition to picking the right stocks.”11 In reviewing annual rates
of return and risk between 1972 and 2008, the authors found that small company stocks
had a standard deviation – a common measure of stock volatility – of 23.84 percent
compared to 18.65 percent for large company stocks, and 2.97 percent for Treasury
bills.12
Without substantial historical performance data to evaluate risk and expected
returns for unregistered offerings, a financial advisor might consider one of two roles for
private placements in a portfolio: as part of the asset class for micro-caps or small-caps,
or as an alternative investment, such as hedge funds.13 Hedge funds, in turn, are the
leading issuer of Reg D offerings.14 As a consequence, prudent advisers would need to
consider overlap in assessing the suitability of a private placement in connection with
either asset class.
In terms of other investment risks, the SEC has always associated the Reg D
market with significant liquidity risk for investors in the form of restricted securities.15 .
This regulatory concern extends beyond unregistered offerings to single-stock
concentration. In 2010, for example, the IRS and Treasury Department clarified that selfdirected retirement plans must maintain a minimum of three diversified investment
options in addition to a company stock option – an indication that whether an offering is
registered or not – concentration of a single stock in a portfolio poses special risks.16

																																																								
10

The debate over the small cap ‘effect’ as a means of achieving greater returns is well-known
but still hotly debated within the investment management industry. For example, some argue that
the “supposed outperformance of small cap stocks” is largely exaggerated (Michael Edesses,
“The Small Cap Falsehood,” Advisor Perspectives, Nov. 1, 2011). In contrast, another asset
management firm argues in a white paper that small and microcap stocks add significant benefits
(Perritt Capital Management, “Adding Micro-Caps to Small Caps: Unlock the Potential to Enhance
Return and Lower Risk,” c. 2014
11

Parvez Ahmed, Ph.D., Kristine Beck, Ph.D., and Sudhir Nanda, Ph.D., “Performance of MicroCap Mutual Funds,” The Journal of Investment Consulting, Vol. 11, No. 1, at 45, 2010. (Available
at http://www.imca.org/sites/default/files/JIC111_PerfMicroCapMF.pdf

12

Id.

13

See, e.g., the website of investment firm IASG that describes alternative investments as “an
investment product other than traditional investments such as stocks, bonds or cash. Most
alternative investment assets are held by institutional investors or accredited, high-net-worth
individuals because of their complex nature, limited regulations and relative lack of liquidity.”
(Available at http://www.iasg.com/Resources/Education/alternative-investments.)
14

Hedge funds were the leading purchasers in the Reg D capital market between 2009 and 2014.
See Figure 8, at 10. Bauguess, Gullapalli, Ivanov.

15

See, e.g., “Investor Bulletin: Private Placements Under Regulation D,” SEC Office of Investor
Education and Advocacy, Sept. 24, 2014. (Available at https://www.sec.gov/oiea/investor-alerts­
bulletins/ib_privateplacements.html.) 	
16

See “Diversification Requirements for Certain Defined Contribution Plans,” Internal Revenue
Bulletin 2010-24, June 14, 2010. (Available at https://www.irs.gov/irb/2010-24_IRB/ar07.html.) A	
2013 Morningstar white paper looked at the risk and potential rewards of significant portfolio
exposure to company stock in a retirement plan. The study looked at whether participants in

3
	

More recently, both the Commission and Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
(“FINRA”) announced private placement transactions would be an examination priority in
2016.17
In addition, since most private offerings are likely to be small businesses, a much
broader economic consideration for financial advisors is the overall survival rate of small
businesses. According to the U.S. Small Business Administration (“SBA”), the survival
rate for new small businesses is about 50 percent after five years, with one-third still in
business after 10 years.18 In the overall scheme of small business financing, the
contribution of angel investors, i.e. accredited investors, is minor, at 2 percent. The
most common sources of startup capital are the small business owners’ and relatives’
own savings, and lines of credit.19 According to the SBA, the angel market contributes
more seed capital in later-stage deals.20
Of course, with the recent adoption of new crowdfunding rules by the SEC, angel
investing may increase and play a greater role in helping to finance startup companies.21
II.

Impact on Reg D Pool by Addition of Financial Professionals

Several governmental bodies – the GAO, Congress, and the Commission’s
volunteer Investor Advisory Committee and Advisory Committee on Small and Emerging
Companies – have recommended modifications to the Definition including the addition of
certain professional advisors. Although it is not clear whether these recommendations
include clients of financial professionals as eligible investors, most appear to endorse
the concept of advisors serving as a conduit for unsophisticated investors who rely on
their expertise. The distinction is, of course, critical in terms of whether the Commission
intends to significantly increase access to the Reg D market.

																																																																																																																																																																					
401(k) plans with high allocations in employer stock outperformed those without employer stock,
based on the assumption that, despite the recognized risk of concentration in one stock, plan
participants with higher company stock allocations generated higher returns. However, the
results of the study were inconclusive. Company plans with higher allocations to employer stock
tended to underperform their peers the following year, but the author of the study said the results
could be explained by a large-cap tilt. The author concludes that the majority of research
“suggests that from a financial planning perspective, employer stock is not a prudent investment
for the average 401(k) participant. Source: David Blanchett, “Employer Stock Ownership in
401(k) Plans and Subsequent Company Stock Performance,” Morningstar Investment
Management, July 1, 2013. (Available at
https://corporate.morningstar.com/us/documents/MethodologyDocuments/ResearchPapers/Empl
oyer-Stock-Ownership-in-401k-Plans.pdf.)
17

See “SEC Announces 2016 Examination Priorities,” News Release 2016-4, Jan. 11, 2016; and
“2016 Regulatory and Examination Priorities Letter,” FINRA, at 7, Jan. 5, 2016.
18

“Frequently Asked Questions,” SBA Office of Advocacy, at 1, March 2014. The SBA defines a
small business as an independent business with fewer than 500 employees. (Available at
https://www.sba.gov/sites/default/files/FAQ_March_2014_0.pdf.)
19
“Frequently Asked Questions,” SBA Office of Advocacy, at 1, February 2014. (Available at
https://www.sba.gov/sites/default/files/2014_Finance_FAQ.pdf.)
20

Id. At 2.

21

See “SEC Adopts Rules to Permit Crowdfunding,” News Release 2015-249, Oct. 30, 2015.
(Available at https://www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-249.html.)		

4
	

A. Limiting Reg D Pool to Certain Professional Credentials
For example, if the Commission were to limit expansion of the Definition to a list
of approved designations – such as the CFA, CFP, CPA and CIMA – the pool of
additional investors might increase by approximately 292,200.22 This would result in a
modest increase to the Reg D pool by about 2.4 percent if clients were not included.23
B. Limiting Reg D Pool to Securities Professionals Based on Registration
Type.
Similarly, if the Commission were to base financial advisor criteria on individual
securities registrations, the pool of eligible financial advisors would nearly double
compared to the above list of professional credentials. Based on the eligibility criteria set
forth in H.R. 2187, for example, the total number of individual investment adviser and
registered representatives, including overlap between dual registrants, can be estimated
at roughly 682,000 individuals.24 This would increase the current pool of accredited
investors by roughly 5.5 percent.
However, if the approved designations served as a conduit to advise clients who
otherwise did not meet the Definition, then the number of eligible investors likely would
be in the millions.25 Thus if the Commission intended to significantly expand access to
the Reg D market under Recommendation 2.B., one appropriate safeguard for investor
protection would be using certain advisors as a portal.

																																																								
22

According to the organizations’ websites, total designees of the four certifying organizations
listed above would be approximately 83,000 U.S-based CFA, 73,000 CFP, and 7,200 CIMA
designees. The number of CPAs engaged in the practice of accounting or investing is more
difficult to estimate, although one independent website suggests approximately 132,000 CPAs
are self-employed, work in accounting firms, and thereby more likely to offer investment advice as
part of their menu of services. Making a generous assumption that most of these CPAs are
affiliated with registered investment advisers or provide incidental investment advice under
securities law exemptions, the total number of designees added to the pool of accredited
investors would be roughly 295,200 individuals. Overlap between designations is not counted,
since the information is not readily available.
23

295,200 x 100 ÷ 12,500,000 = 2.36 percent (certified professionals x 100 ÷ current accredited
investors).
24
According to the North American Securities Administrators Association, which oversees the
registration data base for SEC and state-registered investment adviser representatives (“IARs”)
there were 304,767 IARs on Jan. 1, 2014. FINRA data for the same time period was 636,707
registered reps (RRs). With an overlap of approximately 85 percent of RRs dually registered as
IARs, the total number of the combined population would be 682,422. (304,767 x .15%) +
(636,707) = 682,422. Increase in the current pool of accredited investors would be approximately
5.45 percent.
25

IMCA was unable to locate data on the average number of clients per advisor. However, in a
conservative estimate, if each individual advisor had 30 clients, the total number of new investors
would be 8.7 million for the credentialed advisors mentioned in the first scenario, or 20.5 million
for registered securities professionals in the second scenario. Of course, there would be some
overlap of advised clients with existing angel investors. The Staff Report notes that
approximately 75 percent of angel investors are already advised by professionals, including
lawyers, accountants and financial planners. See Staff report at 112.			

5
	

As noted by the Investor Advisory Committee, the obvious question is where to
draw the line in terms of professional credentials, and in our view, to registration type.
We discuss this question in more detail below.
III. 	

Balancing Investor Protection with Financial Advisors as Accredited
Investors.

The “Accredited Investor” definition has historically been a bulwark of investor
protection under Reg D. According to the Staff Report, the Definition is “intended to
encompass those persons whose financial sophistication and ability to sustain the risk of
loss of investment or ability to fend for themselves render the protections of the
Securities Act’s registration process unnecessary.”26
The staff recommendation to depart from the existing bright-line test to include,
among other things, financial advisors or a financial sophistication test, has been
endorsed by the SEC’s Investor Advisory Committee, Advisory Committee on Small and
Emerging Companies,27 the GAO, and Congress. IMCA also supports this
recommendation, based on certain criteria discussed below.
As noted in the Staff Report, individual brokers passing the Series 7 or 82 exams
are qualified to effect the sales of private securities offerings.28 The Staff Report also
mentions other private sector examinations that may be considered in determining
whether an individual qualifies as an accredited investor.29
Most private sector exams generally emphasize competency in market topics,
with a lesser proportion of test questions covering knowledge of securities laws. The
securities exams administered by the regulators, in turn, have a mix of content covering
knowledge of investments and securities laws, but generally allocate more content to
knowledge of law than private certifying organizations.30
The Investor Advisory Committee notes that both the Series 7 exam and CFA
designation are commonly mentioned as satisfying the test of measuring an individual’s
financial sophistication. The question, according to the Committee, is where to draw the

																																																								
26

Staff Report, at 2 (citing “Exemption for Certain Employee Benefit Plans,: Release No. 33-6683
(Jan. 16, 1987).
27
“For example, we would recommend including within the definition of accredited investor those
investors who meet a sophistication test, regardless of income or net worth.” Recommendations
of the SEC Advisory Committee on Small and Emerging Companies, March 9, 2015, at 3.
28

Staff Report, at 59-60.

29

Id. Included in this list is the Series 65 exam for investment adviser representatives, and the
private sector exams in order to hold the CPA, CFA and CFP designations.
30

It is difficult to make accurate comparisons between the various exams; only generalizations
can be made. The Series 65 exam, for example, was 100 percent knowledge of securities law
prior to 2000. In updating the exam to include knowledge of investing and the markets, the
current exam is approximately 69 percent knowledge of investments and 31 percent knowledge
of law and ethics. The Series 7 exam is organized differently and mixes knowledge of investment
products with regulatory requirements under five major job functions. The CFA level 1, 2 and 3
exam content is approximately 10 to 15 percent on ethics and professional standards.		

6
	

line because “many other credentials with less claim to measure relevant expertise are
likely to seek inclusion…”31
IMCA believes there are several approaches the Commission can take with
regard to this question. We certainly agree that many private certifications do not cover
the areas applicable to investing in, or advising on, private placements. IMCA suggests
that the most cost-effective way of screening private sector exams is to rely on an
outside, independent certifying organization. The North American Securities
Administrators Association (“NASAA”), for example, has relied on two independent
certifying organizations as proxies for screening out misleading designations under its
model rule for the use of senior-specific credentials.32 According to NASAA’s model
rule, use of a designation accredited by the National Commission for Certifying Agencies
and the American National Standards Institute (“ANSI”) offers a rebuttable presumption
that it is not disqualified.
IMCA supports ANSI accreditation. The CIMA® certification, administered by
IMCA, has undergone ANSI’s rigorous review program and earned ANSI accreditation
for meeting international standards (ISO 17024) for personnel certification. Among the
hundreds of financial certifications offered in the marketplace, only a few meet third-party
accreditation. Competency-based certifications that meet stringent global standards like
ANSI’s program provide objective evidence that the certification meets recognized
standards. Today in the United States a number of federal agencies, including the
Department of Defense, Department of Energy, Food and Drug Administration, and the
Occupational Safety and Health Administration rely on ANSI accreditation to identify
credible certifications.
CIMA certification earned ANSI accreditation in 2011 and is the only financial
services certification in the United States to meet international standards.33 On the state
level, three state securities administrators34 have exercised their authority to
permanently waive the exam requirement for CIMA® certificants from the Series 65
examination requirement. We understand that 14 states, as well as the District of
Columbia, also waive the exam requirement for CIMA certificants on a case-by-case
basis. As such, we believe that the CIMA designation should be included in any list of
credentials approved by the Commission.35

																																																								
31

“Recommendation of the Investor Advisory Committee: Accredited Investor Definition,” Oct. 9,
2014, at 7. (Available at https://www.sec.gov/spotlight/investor-advisory-committee­
2012/investment-advisor-accredited-definition.pdf.)

32

See, e.g. NASAA Model Rule on the Use of Senior-specific Certifications and Professional
Designations, Adopted March 20, 2008. (Available at http://www.nasaa.org/wp­
content/uploads/2011/07/3-Senior_Model_Rule_Adopted.pdf.)
33

See News Release “ANSI Accredits Investment Management Consultants Association under
Personnel Certification Accreditation Program,” Apr. 26, 2011, at
https://www.ansica.org/wwwversion2/outside/News.asp.
34

The three states that have approved waivers for the CIMA exam are Alaska, Colorado and
Missouri. The 14 states that do so on a case-by-case basis are: Alabama, Delaware, Idaho,
Indiana, Kansas, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South
Dakota, Utah, Vermont and West Virginia.
35

We also note that IMCA’s Certified Private Wealth Advisor® (“CPWA®”) certification is designed
for advisors who work with high-net-worth clients (defined as individuals or families with a net

7
	

The Staff Report correctly notes that the Commission may need to periodically
review the standards underlying the examinations to ensure that those individuals
continue to have the requisite sophistication to invest in private offerings.36 In addition,
the Staff Report expressed concern with professionals who no longer practice but still
hold a professional credential. IMCA believes that the first concern – regarding periodic
reviews of exam content – is resolved through reliance on third-party accreditation by
organizations like ANSI, and the second concern regarding ongoing competency is
resolved by requiring private certifying organizations to mandate continuing education
requirements.
A. Regulatory Registrations and the Fiduciary Standard.
Another approach that has been suggested is reliance on registered agents of
broker-dealers or investment advisers. The Staff Report notes that currently under Reg
D angel investors may rely on “purchaser representatives” for advice. However, in this
context the Committee was concerned about conflicts of interest on the part of purchaser
representatives. To manage conflicts, the Investor Advisory Committee recommended
barring purchaser representatives from holding a financial stake in the offering, and if
they received compensation for their advice, to require them to act as fiduciaries and
represent the best interests of the investor. 37
IMCA agrees with the need to avoid or manage conflicts in connection with private
placement transactions. Consistent with its own Code of Professional Responsibility
requiring designees to act in the client’s best interest, IMCA believes advisors and
purchaser representatives should be subject to a fiduciary requirement.
As such, those individuals who are registered as investment adviser representatives
have already passed or received a waiver from the Series 65 exam requirements.
According to the Staff Report, they are likely qualified to provide advice. Moreover, under
the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and similar state securities laws, they owe a
fiduciary duty to their clients. In contrast, purchaser representatives, while qualified to
offer advice by having passed the Series 7 or 82 exams, are subject to a suitability
requirement, which does not require them to always act in the best interest of the
investor.
IV.

Accredited Investor Examination

Staff Report Recommendation 2.e. would permit individuals who pass an
Accredited Investor examination to qualify as Accredited Investors “regardless of wealth,
educational background, professional experience or any other factor.”38 The two SEC
advisory committees also recommended including within the definition those investors
who meet a test of sophistication.

																																																																																																																																																																					
worth of $5 million or more). As such, many of their clients already meet the current Definition.
Based on the knowledge content of the exam, IMCA believes the CPWA program also should be
considered for approval under the Definition if the Commission does not rely on a third-party
review.
36

Staff Report at 61.

37

Id. at 62.

38

Staff Report, at 65.	

8
	

IMCA supports this option on the assumption that an effectively designed test
would meet the knowledge requirements necessary for an individual to understand the
risks involved in private offerings. We also support the Staff Report’s observation that
the individual should have passed the test within a certain prescribed period of time,
such as five years, or require continuing education in order to maintain Accredited
Investor status.
The Staff Report goes on to say that portions of FINRA’s Series 7 and 82 exams
cover these areas and could serve as a model for the individual exam. Given IMCA’s
experience in developing exam content that also covers certain content areas necessary
for investing in private placements, we encourage the Commission to develop selection
criteria that also would allow private sector certifying organizations such as IMCA to
compete in the marketplace. Similar to our recommendation for third-party reviews of
professional credentials, the Commission could rely on independent certifying
organizations to accredit, and periodically review, accreditation status for exam
providers.
V. Summary
In conclusion, should the Commission revise the Definition to include
credentialed advisors and adopt a financial sophistication test for investors, we would
ask that the CIMA® designation be included under the Definition and that private sector
organization with appropriate experience in administering competency exams be eligible
to develop the new exam or exams for angel investors who do not meet the income or
net worth criteria.
IMCA’s certification and exam review processes are rigorous. CIMA certification
candidates, for example, must go through a multi-step process to earn the designation.
The entire program on average takes 14.1 months to complete. The initial application
requires a background check. Applicants who are accepted become candidates who
must then pass IMCA’s criterion-based Qualification Examination before being allowed
to enroll in and complete one of the registered education programs.39
After successfully completing the education component, candidates must pass
the Certification Exam. Finally, after passing this Certification Exam, candidates must
provide details of their work experience in the financial services industry, pass a second
background check, and agree to adhere to IMCA ethics and other standards. As of
December 31, 2015, the first-time passing rate for CIMA candidates was 57 percent. An
indicator of the CIMA Certification Exam’s difficulty is a pass-rate that is lower than all of
the NASAA-waived designations’ comprehensive tests40 except for the CFA exam.

																																																								
39

As of 2016, the CIMA curriculum is offered by four registered providers: the University of
Chicago Booth School of Business, MIT Sloan School of Management Office of Executive
Education, the University of Technology, Sydney, and The Wharton School, University of
Pennsylvania.
40

See “NASAA Examination Requirements for Investment Advisers and Investment Adviser
Representatives Model Rule 204(b)(6)-1 (as amended 9/17/2008), available at
http://www.nasaa.org/1325/adopted-model-rules/.			

9
	

To maintain competency and sharpen their professional skills, CIMA certificants are
required to complete 40 hours of continuing education every two years. The average CE
requirement of the NASAA-waived designations is 10 hours each year. Two of the
NASAA-waived designations have no requirements.
The CIMA exams are also updated on a periodic basis. In 2014, the exams for CIMA
certification were most recently updated to reflect findings from a job task analysis
completed by more than 750 retail and institutional advisors. The job analysis asked
advisors to prioritize professional task and knowledge competencies required for
investment advisors and consultants. As a best practice, only a handful of financial
services credentialing bodies incorporate job task analyses findings into their
certifications.
This is not to suggest that the exam for accredited investors must be as
demanding or as comprehensive, only to illustrate that IMCA, and other national
certifying organizations have the in-house knowledge and capability to develop a
focused exam to ensure that individual investors are adequately prepared to make
informed investment decisions.
_______
IMCA is pleased to provide these comments in connection with the Staff Report.
Please contact the undersigned at
if you have any questions or
comments.
Sincerely,

Sean R. Walters, CAE
CEO/Executive Director

10
	

