Submit Comments on 4-692

10-5-2016 


Report on the Review of the Definition of 'Accredited Investor' 

© Carrie Devorah . May be reproduced by the SEC for posting but otherwise may not be reprinted without
permission

Asking for a definition of "Accredited Investor" is offensive to Main Street, to the Accredited
Investor in that too often, the initial client documents the client is told to sign on the dotted line
for, only where indicated, reason give, 'because the advisor must wait for the firm to give the
client a client number before the rest of the information can be filled in.'
What is needed to clean up Wall Street is the definition backed up with documentation of an
Accredited Advisor/Financial Consultant.
No. This is not a one off. Tliis happens to one investor back to back only to learn post the matter
being settled since FINRA has its own rules of Discovery which do not include the investor
succeeding at getting Discovery from FINRA's dues paying members, the brokers and
brokerages the investment client is suing in a forum that Congress NEVER gave oversight to the
FINRA or 100% FINRA owner, the NASD Holdings Co.
The Client will never get to see the Firm knew accounts were being robbed systematically for
over a decade, the removal of the Investment Client's social security number, wrong DOB,
misspelled street name and wrong address number. The Client will never see who took the
Client's award points from point-per-dollar-spent. The Client will never get to see their accounts
balances were manipulated over the decade, being changed, as it turns out, AFTER THE FINRA
matter was filed, within two weeks by someone who left a "Hit List" on the Encrypted CD the
firm sent to the client, the PDF's created by an employee who left RBC in s2004, yet their
signature is digitally encrypted in 2010.
The FINRA confirms that person is the architect of the RBC system. So what was that question?
The answer to what needs to be done is that the Client must receive authentication from the firm
as to who that Financial Consultant is. No no no not Investment Advisor or Securities Broker,
but, as FINRA labls them, Financial Consultant the organized coordinated massage the FINRA
creates, the "duck blind" hook with which FINRA pulls investment clients in to the FINRA silent
silo claiming FOIA priviledge, with the help of PIABA, a similar business league but of
securities lawyers who know that Congress never gave the only SRO the Commission approved,
the right of oversight of Investment Client and Investment Advisor complaint resolution, a twist
the PIABA and the FINRA use to their advantage positioning the harmed Investment Client in to
a comer where the Courts state, 'you submitted to a DRS', ignoring the fact the DRS is not FAA
compliant nor neutral.
You cannot get a neutral adjudication in a forum belonging to the dues collecting business league
the people you are suing belong to.

1

Moreso, the FINRA "members" are licensed on a state by state basis which puts them under the
UCC for a state by state prosecution.
© Carrie Devorah . May be reproduced by the SEC for posting but otherwise may not be reprinted without

permission carriedev@gmail.com

The regs that need to be written are
1­

Making it required that an Investment Client be given the E&O information of any
'financial consultant' they work with allowing the complainant a chance of getting
stolen funds back above the current FINRA formula of 1110th claimed

2­

Requiring that ALL complaints- denied, settled, expunged appear on the FINRA
brokercheck timeline currently making most Brokercheck posted look like choirboys,
appear on the "brokerages" U4 and Brokercheck, too

3­

Holding all interns and other staff culpable for crimes of the boss in that they
benefited from the bosses crimes

4-

Requiring all clients receive a copy of the contracted name the Brokerage is providing
Clearing access to

As you can see, the Investment Client is the one needing proof their life savings are being turned
over to an accredited Financial Person. Moreso, what every client needs to be given by claims
that went in to FINRA, is their monies back along with jail sentences for the Cartels abuse of
Congress' intent, along with complicit SEC employees and PIABA involved in misleading
Investors that the NASD or the FINRA was where they go.
Quite the cottage industry, n'est ce pas?
Cartel.. ... spelled .... F-I-N-R-A. Regulate these crimes get turned over to Cops instead of
keeping them on FINRA's hamster wheel away from "guilty or not guilty pleas.
Sincerely
Carrie Devorah
PUBLIC INVESTOR 12-03894
The Lady Who Guided Gov. McCauliffe On How To Give Felon Back Voting Rights
Founder
THE CENTER FOR COPYRIGHT INTEGRITY
www.centerforcopyrightintegrity.com
(Search FINRA, GARNER, MADOFF .. ..)
Where ARTS, IP, ID, IT and ENFORCEMENT Come Together In One Voice Against Online Theft Of Content and
Commerce
https:/twww.voutube.com watch?v= 193F73UYmsw&feature=voutu.be
www.Iinkedin.com/ in 'carriedevorah
https://www.instagram.com/carriedev II
CCIA : Profiler : trained MPI : LACBA-DRS : CA-BSIS
Actively built the l st discrete site crime analysis lab on a campus in North America

2

