SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON
SMALL AND EMERGING COMPANIES
Washington, DC 20549-3628

June 11, 2015

The Honorable Mary Jo White
Chair
U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, N.E.
Washington, DC 20549-1070
Dear Chair White:
As you know, the Securities and Exchange Commission organized the Advisory Committee on
Small and Emerging Companies to provide the Commission with advice on the Commission’s
rules, regulations, and policies with regard to its mission of protecting investors, maintaining
fair, orderly, and efficient markets, and facilitating capital formation, as they relate to the
following:
(1)

capital raising by emerging privately held small businesses and publicly traded
companies with less than $250 million in public market capitalization;

(2)

trading in the securities of such businesses and companies; and

(3)

public reporting and corporate governance requirements to which such businesses
and companies are subject.

On behalf of the Advisory Committee, we are pleased to submit the enclosed recommendation
regarding formalizing the exemption commonly known as “Section 4(1½).” This
recommendation was discussed at a meeting held on March 4, 2015 and unanimously approved
by the members of the Advisory Committee present and voting at a meeting held on June 3,
2015.
We and the other members of the Advisory Committee are prepared to provide any additional
assistance that the Commission or its staff may request with respect to this recommendation.
Respectfully submitted on behalf of the Committee,

Stephen M. Graham
Committee Co-Chair

M. Christine Jacobs
Committee Co-Chair
 

 

Members of the Committee
Charles Baltic
David A. Bochnowski
John J. Borer, III
Dan Chace
Milton Chang
Stephen M. Graham
Shannon L. Greene
Sara Hanks
John Hempill
M. Christine Jacobs
Richard L. Leza*
Sonia Luna
Catherine V. Mott
David J. Paul
Timothy Reese**
Timothy Walsh*
Gregory C. Yadley
Official Observers
Michael Pieciak
Javier Saade
* Not present at the meeting held on March 4, 2015.
** Not present at the meeting held on June 3, 2015.
Enclosure
cc:

Commissioner Luis Aguilar
Commissioner Daniel M. Gallagher
Commissioner Kara M. Stein
Commissioner Michael S. Piwowar
Keith Higgins
Elizabeth Murphy
Sebastian Gomez
Julie Davis

 
 

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
Advisory Committee on Small and Emerging Companies
Recommendation Regarding the “4(1½) Exemption”
From the March 4, 2015 and June 3, 2015 Meetings

AFTER CONSIDERING THAT:
1.

The Committee’s objective is to provide the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
(the “Commission” or “SEC”) with advice on its rules, regulations and policies with
regard to its mission of protecting investors, maintaining fair, orderly and efficient
markets, and facilitating capital formation, as they relate to, among other things, capital
raising by emerging privately held small businesses (“emerging companies”) and publicly
traded companies with less than $250 million in public market capitalization (“smaller
public companies”).

2.

Smaller public companies and emerging companies play a significant role as drivers of
U.S. economic activity, innovation, and job creation. Their ability to raise capital in the
private markets is critical to the economic well-being of the United States.

3.

Private companies are better able to attract and retain talented employees when those
employees are able to monetize at least part of their equity compensation. Making equity
compensation more attractive to prospective employees will facilitate job creation and
start-up growth.

4.

With the enactment of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act of 2012, private
companies have greater flexibility to defer an initial public offering, and many are
choosing to remain private longer than in the past. As a result, shareholders and
employees of these companies can face a longer wait time for public liquidity, a fact that
negatively impacts private company capital formation and job creation.

5.

Securities Act Rule 144 is a commonly-used safe harbor that allows selling
securityholders to sell privately-issued securities subject to the conditions of the rule.
However, there are situations under which employees and affiliates of the issuer may not
be able to meet the conditions of Rule 144. One common example is an option holder
seeking a “cashless” exercise of employee options. In this case, the holding period
requirements in Rule 144 often prevent the holder from being able to resell shares
immediately upon exercise in order to pay the exercise price and other costs of acquiring
the shares underlying the options.

6.

When the conditions of Rule 144 are not met, selling securityholders often rely on the socalled “4(1½) exemption,” a legal construct that has developed based on case law. The
“4(1½) exemption” incorporates elements of exemptions available under Securities Act
1

 

Section 4(a)(1) for persons other than an issuer, underwriter or dealer, and Section 4(a)(2)
for transactions by an issuer not involving a public offering.
7.

The expenses involved in a “4(1½)” transaction can be significant. Generally, the selling
securityholder engages legal counsel to provide a legal opinion confirming that the shares
were sold pursuant to a valid exemption from registration. Current opinion practice with
respect to “4(1½)” transfers requires that the transferee certify that he/she/it is an
accredited investor. In addition, the parties to the transfer need to certify that they have
otherwise complied with the requirements of a valid private placement, including that
there was no general solicitation, and the new certificates are legended as “restricted
securities”.

8.

Each transaction must satisfy the blue sky laws of the state of residence of the potential
buyer. State regulations relating to these transactions generally vary, which often adds
significantly to the complexity and cost.

9.

There have been bills introduced in Congress to formalize the “4(1½)” legal construct.
While a statutory change would be effective, the SEC also has the authority to formalize
the exemption through rulemaking.

THE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THAT:
The Commission formalize the “4(1½) exemption” to mimic existing opinion practice for resales
of privately-issued securities by shareholders who are not able to rely on Securities Act Rule
144.

2
 

