SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON 

SMALL AND EMERGING COMPANIES 

Washington, DC 20549-3628

September 23, 2015

The Honorable Mary Jo White
Chair
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, N.E.
Washington, DC 20549-1070
Dear Chair White:
As you know, the Securities and Exchange Commission organized the Advisory Committee on
Small and Emerging Companies to provide the Commission with advice on the Commission's
rules, regulations, and policies with regard to its mission of protecting investors, maintaining
fair, orderly, and efficient markets, and facilitating capital formation, as they relate to 'the
following:
(1)

capital raising by emerging privately held small businesses and publicly traded
companies with less than $250 million in public market capitalization;

(2)

trading in the securities of such businesses and companies; and

(3)

public reporting and corporate governance requirements to which such businesses
and companies are subject.

On behalf of the Advisory Committee, we are pleased to submit the enclosed recommendations
regarding the regulation of finders and other intermediaries in small business capital formation
transactions. This topic was discussed at our meetings held on June 3, 2015 and July 15,2015,
and the specific recommendations, as enclosed, were voted upon and unanimously approved on
September 23, 2015.
We and the other members of the Advisory Committee are prepared to provide any additional
assistance that the Commission or its staff may request with respect to this recommendation.
Respectfully submitted on behalf of the Committee,

~

Stephen M. Graham
Committee Co-Chair




M. Christine Jacobs 

Committee Co-Chair 


Members of the Committee
Charles Baltic
David A. Bochnowski
John J. Borer, III
Dan Chace
Milton Chang
Stephen M. Graham
Shannon L. Greene**
Sara Hanks
John Hempill
M. Christine Jacobs
Richard L. Leza**
Sonia Luna
Catherine V. Mott**
David J. Paul
Timothy Reese*
Timothy Walsh
Gregory C. Y adley
Official Observers
Michael Pieciak
Javier Saade**
* Not present at the meeting held on June 3, 2015 .
**Not present at the meeting held on September 23 , 2015
Enclosure
cc: 	

Commissioner Luis Aguilar
Commissioner Daniel M. Gallagher
Commissioner KaraM. Stein
Commissioner Michael S. Piwowar
Steve Luparello
Heather Seidel
Joe Furey
Joanne Rutkowski
Keith Higgins
Elizabeth Murphy
Sebastian Gomez
Julie Davis

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 

Advisory Committee on Small and Emerging Companies 


Recommendations Regarding the Regulation of Finders and Other Intermediaries
in Small Business Capital Formation Transactions

AFTER CONSIDERING THAT:
1. 	 Small businesses account for the creation of two-thirds of all new jobs, and are the incubators
of innovation, with the majority of new jobs in the United States created by companies less
than five years old . Early stage capital for these small businesses is raised principally
through offerings that qualify for exemption under the registration provisions of the
Securities Act of 1933 and the "blue sky" laws of the various states.
2. 	 Capital raised in private offerings using SEC Regulation D is large when compared to other
exempt offerings and registered offerings. However, only 13% ofRegulation D offerings
reported using a financial intermediary, such as a broker-dealer or finder, between 2009 and
2012. This is due, in part, to lack of interest from registered broker-dealers given the legal
costs and risks involved in undertaking a small transaction and ambiguities in the definition of
"broker." This void means that a number of smaller market pmticipants rely on unregistered
pmties to identify and solicit potential investors.
3. 	 As documented in the findings of an American Bar Association Business Law Section Task
Force in 2005, recognized by the SEC Advisory Committee on Smaller Public Companies in
2006, and endorsed in the Final Reports of the Congressionally-mandated annual SEC
Government-Business Forum on Small Business Capital Formation since 2006:
a. 	

Failure to address the regulatory issues surrounding finders and other private
placement intermediaries impedes capital formation for smaller companies,

b. 	

The current broker-dealer registration system and FINRA membership process is
a deterrent to meaningful oversight,

c. 	

Appropriate regulation would enhance economic growth and job creation, and

d. 	

Solutions are achievable through Commission leadership and coordination with
FINRA and the states.

4. 	 The Committee is of the view that imposing only limited regulatory requirements, including
appropriate investor protection safeguards, on private placement intermediaries that limit
their activities to specified parameters, do not hold customer funds or securities and deal only
with accredited investors would enhance capital fonnation and promote job creation.

THE COMMITTEE RECOMM ENDS THAT:
1. 	 The Commission take steps to clarify the cunent ambiguity in broker-dealer regulation by
determining that persons that receive transaction-based compensation solely for providing names
of or introductions to prospective investors are not subject to registration as a broker under the
Securities Exchange Act.
2. 	 The Commission exempt intermediaries that are actively involved in the discussions, negotiations
and structuring, as well as the solicitation of prospective investors, for private financings on a
regular basis from broker registration at the federal level, conditioned upon registration as a
broker under State law.

.

3. 	 The Commission spearhead a joint effort with the North American Securities Administrators
Association and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority to ensure coordinated State
regulation and adoption of measured regulation that is transparent, responsive to the needs of
small businesses for capital, proportional to the risks to which investors in such offerings are
exposed, and capable of early implementation and ongoing enforcement.
4. 	 The Commission should take immediate intermediary steps to begin to address issues regarding
the regulation of intetmediaries in small business capital formation transactions incrementally
instead of waiting until development of a comprehensive solution.

