Access to Capital
How Small and Mid-size Businesses are Funding Their Future

Brian Knight
Associate Director, Financial Policy, Center for Financial Markets
Milken Institute
@BrianRKnight

Milken Institute Center for Financial Markets

1101 New York Ave., NW
Suite 620
Washington, D.C. 20005

@MI_CFM

Access to Capital Report
 Co-authored with the National Center for the
Middle Market
 Survey of 636 owners and c-suite executives of
private companies with total annual revenues
from <$500,000 - >$1 billion, administered
January 22 – February 6, 2015.
 Provides a snapshot of small and middle-market
firms’ corporate financing structures and
approaches to raising capital.
 Report available at: http://bit.ly/1JHLqT1

Key Findings
1. Debt is preferred method of outside financing
2. Firms value price, ease of access, speed of funding, and certainty when
evaluating sources of funding.
3. Firms are uncertain whether bank or non-bank financing is superior, but
are influenced by their relationship with their bank.
4. Firms had low understanding and interest in alternative sources of funding
and recent securities law changes

Methods of Raising Capital Used in the Last Three Years

Types of Debt a Firm Currently Has

Sources that will Fund Expansion in the Coming Year

Self-funding Near-term Expansion Plans

Methods of Raising Capital in the Next Three Years

Importance of Factors when Considering Financing

Impact of Factors on Decision to Use Nonbanks for
Financing

Are Nonbank Sources of Capital Superior to Traditional
Lenders?

Are Nonbank Sources of Capital Superior to Traditional
Lenders?

Reasons a Company Would Consider Borrowing from a
Bank

Considerations when Borrowing from a Bank

Perception of Borrowing Costs

Right Amount of Debt for Company

Debt Strategy

Most Important Driver of Current Debt Levels

Debt-to-Asset Ratio

Total Debt of Firm Regardless of Source

Awareness of Nontraditional Sources of Capital

Familiarity with Securities Law Changes

New Methods Company Would Consider Using in the
Future

Reasons Would Consider Using a New Funding Source

Reasons Would be Hesitant or Unwilling to Use New
Methods of Financing

Whether Company is Listed on a Stock Exchange

Biggest Barrier that Would Prevent Listing

Extent to which Expansion Plans are Subject to the Cost
of Capital

Extent to Which Expansion Plans are Subject to the Cost
of Capital

