Investor Bulletin:

American Depositary Receipts
The SEC’s Office of Investor Education and Advocacy
is issuing this Investor Bulletin to educate investors
about American Depositary Receipts (“ADRs”). An
ADR is a security that represents shares of non-U.S.
companies that are held by a U.S. depositary bank
outside the United States (“U.S.”).

What is an ADR?
ADRs allow U.S. investors to invest in non-U.S.
companies and give non-U.S. companies easier access
to the U.S. capital markets. Many non-U.S. issuers use
ADRs as a means of raising capital or establishing a
trading presence in the U.S. The non-U.S. company
may sometimes be referred to as a “foreign private
issuer.” The first ADR was created in 1927 by a U.S.
bank to allow U.S. investors to invest in shares of a
British department store. Today, there are more than
2,000 ADRs available representing shares of companies
located in more than 70 countries.
An ADR is a negotiable certificate that evidences an
ownership interest in American Depositary Shares
(“ADSs”) which, in turn, represent an interest in
the shares of a non-U.S. company that have been
deposited with a U.S. bank. It is similar to a stock
certificate representing shares of stock. The terms
ADR and ADS are often used interchangeably by

Investor Assistance (800) 732-0330

market participants. ADRs trade in U.S. dollars
and clear through U.S. settlement systems, allowing
ADR holders to avoid having to transact in a foreign
currency.
An ADR may represent the underlying shares on
a one-for-one basis, or may represent a fraction of
a share or multiple shares. For example, for one
company, an ADR may represent several shares of
the underlying security, while for another company,
an ADR may represent a fraction of the underlying
security. The use of a ratio allows ADRs to be priced
at an amount more typical of U.S. market share prices.
ADRs are created by a depositary bank when the
non-U.S. company, or an investor who already holds
the underlying non-U.S. securities, delivers them to
the bank or its custodian in the non-U.S. company’s
home country. The bank will issue ADRs to the
investor in the U.S. and the investor will be able to
re-sell the ADRs on a U.S. exchange or the over-thecounter market. ADR holders may also surrender
ADRs in exchange for receiving the shares of the
non-U.S. company. These transactions are generally
performed by brokers and other types of investors
who are active in foreign securities markets.
ADRs may be “sponsored” or “unsponsored.”
Sponsored ADRs are those in which the non-U.S.
company enters into an agreement directly with the
U.S. depositary bank to arrange for recordkeeping,

www.investor.gov

1

forwarding of shareholder communications, payment
of dividends, and other services. An unsponsored
ADR is set up without the cooperation of the nonU.S. company and may be initiated by a brokerdealer wishing to establish a U.S. trading market. An
ADR, however, may not be established unless the
non-U.S. company is either subject to the reporting
requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 or is exempt under the Act.
ADRs are always registered with the SEC on a Form
F-6 registration statement. Disclosure under Form
F-6 relates only to the contractual terms of deposit
under the deposit agreement and includes copies of
the agreement, a form of ADR certificate, and legal
opinions. A Form F-6 contains no information about
the non-U.S. company. If a foreign company with
ADRs wishes to raise capital in the United States, it
would separately file a registration statement on Form
F-1, F-3, or F-4. If a foreign private issuer seeks to list
ADRs on a U.S. stock exchange, it would separately
file with the SEC a registration statement on Form
20-F. Registration statements used to raise capital
or list ADRs on an exchange are required to contain
extensive financial and non-financial information
about the issuer.
Market participants have generally categorized ADRs
into three “levels,” depending on the extent to which
the foreign company has accessed the U.S. markets:
Level 1 ADR programs establish a trading presence
but may not be used to raise capital. It is the only
type of facility that may be unsponsored and, as a
result, may be traded only on the over-the-counter
market. Form F-6 would be the only form
required to be filed. No information about the
issuer would be available on the SEC’s EDGAR
system; information should be available on the
issuer’s website.
Level 2 ADR programs establish a trading presence
on a national securities exchange but may not be
used to raise capital. Again, Form F-6 would be
used to register the ADRs. The non-U.S. company
is required to register and file annual reports on
Form 20-F with the SEC.
Investor Assistance (800) 732-0330

Level 3 ADR programs may be used not only to
establish a trading presence, but also to raise capital
for the foreign issuer. A registration statement
on Form F-1, Form F-3, or Form F-4 would be
filed in order to offer the ADRs. The non-U.S.
company would be required to also file annual
reports on Form 20-F.

What fees are charged to ADR
investors?
As a matter of course, an ADR depositary bank may
be authorized under the deposit agreement relating
to the ADRs to charge a fee, called a custody fee, for
the work it performs on the ADR. ADR depositary
banks charge holders of ADRs custody fees, sometimes
referred to as Depositary Services Fees, to compensate
the depositary banks for inventorying the non-U.S.
shares and performing registration, compliance,
dividend payment, communication, and recordkeeping
services.
A common practice for collection of the custody
fee is for the ADR depositary bank to subtract the
amount of the fee from the gross dividends paid by
the bank to ADR holders. Typically, the Depository
Trust Company, (DTC) will announce both the gross
dividend rate and the net dividend rate after deduction
of the ADR custody fee. The ADR depositary banks
pay DTC the net dividend, and DTC allocates the
net dividend to its users. However, a number of ADR
issues do not pay periodic dividends, which prevents
the fees from being collected through the abovedescribed mechanism. In this case, DTC charges the
fee to its users (i.e., banks and broker-dealers) who pass
them on to their customers.
Depositary banks may charge other fees, such as
relating to the distribution of dividends, foreign
currency exchange, voting of shares, and other matters.

www.investor.gov

2

What should investors do before
investing in ADRs?
Like any other investment, you should learn as
much as you can about a company before you
invest. Research the political, economic, and social
conditions in the company’s home country so you
will understand better the factors that affect the
company’s financial results and stock price. You should
understand that non-U.S. companies are subject
to financial and other disclosure requirements that
differ from those required of U.S. public companies.
Except for the annual report on Form 20-F, non-U.S.
companies are generally only required to disclose what
is required in their home country. Any disclosure may
also not be as extensive or comparable to that of U.S.
public companies.
Prior to investing in an ADR, investors should ask
their broker-dealer what fees are charged to them as
ADR investors. Typically, fees are assessed per ADR.
For example, 1000 ADRs could be assessed a fee
ranging from $20 to $50. Investors should review the
fees reported in the Form F-6 registration statement
under the Securities Act of 1933 available through
the SEC’s web site at www.sec.gov/edgar.shtml at
no charge.  Fees can be viewed in the section of the
registration statement typically titled, “Description
of American Depository Shares” or “Description
of American Depository Receipts.” The websites
of depositary banks that are active in the U.S. also
contain information about investing in ADRs and
serve as a source of information for investors.

Investor Assistance (800) 732-0330

RELATED INFORMATION
For more information on ADRs and
international investing, please visit the SEC’s
ADR Fast Answer and read our publication
on the basics of international investing, which
covers the risks of investing internationally and
how to get more information about foreign
companies and markets.

The Office of Investor Education and Advocacy
has provided this information as a service to
investors. It is neither a legal interpretation nor
a statement of SEC policy. If you have questions
concerning the meaning or application of a
particular law or rule, please consult with an
attorney who specializes in securities law.

August 2012

3

