By the Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations 1
This Risk Alert summarizes OCIE staff
observations on the due diligence
practices of certain investment advisers
that manage and/or recommend
alternative investments to their clients.
Practices employed by some advisers
that may provide greater transparency
and that independently support the
information provided by underlying
managers include: (i) the use of
separate accounts to gain full
transparency and control; (ii) the use of
transparency reports issued by
independent fund administrators and
risk aggregators; (iii) the verification of
relationships with critical service
providers; (iv) the confirmation of
existence of assets; (v) routinely
conducting onsite reviews; (vi) the
increased emphasis on operational due
diligence; and (vii) having independent
providers conduct comprehensive
background checks.

Volume IV, Issue 1

January 28, 2014

INVESTMENT ADVISER DUE DILIGENCE PROCESSES
FOR SELECTING ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS AND
THEIR RESPECTIVE MANAGERS
For at least the past six years, staff in the Office of Compliance
Inspections and Examinations (the “staff” and “OCIE”
respectively) have observed and outside studies have indicated
that investment advisers, including pension consultants, are
increasingly recommending alternative investments to their
clients. 2 Investment advisers are fiduciaries and thus must act in
their clients’ best interests. 3 An adviser that exercises discretion
to purchase alternative investments on behalf of its clients, or
that relies on a manager 4 to perform due diligence of alternative
investments, must determine whether such investments: (i) meet
the clients’ investment objectives; and (ii) are consistent with
the investment principles and strategies that were disclosed by
the manager to the adviser (as set forth in various documents,
such as advisory disclosure documents, private offering
memoranda, prospectuses, or other offering materials provided

1

The views expressed herein are those of the staff of OCIE, in coordination with other Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”) staff, including in the Division of Enforcement’s Asset Management Unit and the
Division of Investment Management. The Commission has expressed no view on its contents. This document
was prepared by the SEC staff and is not legal advice.

2

Alternative investments include private funds such as hedge funds, private equity, venture capital, real estate,
and funds of private funds. According to a June 2012 research report by McKinsey & Company, the Assets
Under Management for global alternative investments have grown to a record $6.5 trillion, having grown at a
five-year rate of more than seven times that of traditional asset classes. The study defines alternative
investments in a similar way as noted above. McKinsey & Company, The Mainstreaming of Alternative
Investments (June 2012).

3

SEC v. Capital Gains Research Bureau, Inc., 375 U.S. 180 (1963), available at
http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ocie/iainfo/capitalgains1963.pdf.

4

As used in this Alert, the term “adviser” refers to registered investment advisers that the staff examined, and
“manager” refers to the managers of the alternative investments that the adviser recommends to its clients.

by the manager). 5 The due diligence process can be more challenging for alternative investments
due to the characteristics of private offerings, including the complexity of certain alternative
investment strategies.
The staff examined 6 the due diligence and related investment advisory processes of certain
advisers to pension plans and funds of private funds in order to evaluate how these advisers: (i)
performed their due diligence; (ii) identified, disclosed, and mitigated conflicts of interest (e.g.,
benefits to the adviser or its employees for allocations made to private funds); and (iii) utilized
experienced investment teams when evaluating complex investment strategies and fund
structures. 7
I. Staff Observations – Industry Practices
A. Industry Trends
The staff observed several widespread trends regarding advisers’ due diligence processes. 8
Several of these observations are noted below.
i. Advisers Are Seeking More and Broader Information and Data Directly from
Managers of Alternative Investments
•

Position-Level Transparency. The staff noticed increased requests from advisers, as
compared to the staff’s experience in prior time periods, for position-level transparency of
the alternative investments. This observation was confirmed through discussions with the
advisers. The staff further noted that while some managers were willing to provide
additional transparency, others were reluctant to share detailed information about their
alternative investments. In particular, these managers were sensitive to sharing position-level

5

The staff observed that, in general, registered advisers performed distinct due diligence reviews of both the
alternative investment fund under consideration and its manager.

6

The staff conducted more than ten examinations of SEC-registered investment advisers, pursuant to Section 204
of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”). The staff’s examinations focused on advisers that
invested in or recommended private fund and fund of private fund investments (e.g., hedge funds and private
equity funds). As of the time of the examinations, these advisers managed approximately $2 trillion in investor
assets. The staff did not examine commodity pools and registered investment companies that pursue alternative
strategies.

7

Staff from the Division of Enforcement brought a settled enforcement action, which alleged that certain fund
advisers did not perform two of the five elements of the due diligence evaluation that they had represented to
their clients they would undertake. In addition, the staff alleged that the advisers failed to adequately respond to
information that they received, which suggested that the identity of the fund’s outside auditor was in doubt and
that there existed a potential conflict of interest between one of the fund’s principals and its purported outside
auditor. In the Matter of Hennessee Group LLC and Charles J. Grandante, Investment Advisers Act Release
No. 2871 (April 22, 2009), available at http://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2009/ia-2871.pdf.

8

The staff does not take a position regarding the compliance effectiveness or ineffectiveness of the industry
practices discussed in this section of this Risk Alert. The adequacy of the industry practices discussed in this
Risk Alert can be determined only with reference to the profile of each specific firm and other facts and
circumstances.

2

information, which they felt may compromise their ability to execute their strategies.
Position-level transparency was typically used by the advisers’ risk assessment teams to: (i)
fine-tune analyses of market sector exposures; (ii) identify position concentrations across the
client’s entire portfolio; and (iii) identify individual positions that may present risks that were
anomalous or inconsistent with managers’ stated investment strategies. The position-level
transparency ultimately provided to the advisers by the alternative investment managers
tended to be the result of a process of negotiation between advisers and managers and
depended on several factors, including the relative influence of the investors and whether the
manager viewed position-level transparency as sensitive proprietary information.
•

Separate Account Management. Some advisers recommended that their clients’ assets be
managed within a separate account to: (i) provide full transparency and greater control over
how the assets are invested (the manager’s authority over the assets is limited to trading
authority); (ii) allow for better monitoring of the investment portfolio’s liquidity and
valuation; and (iii) reduce the ability of a manager to misappropriate client assets or charge
unauthorized fees or expenses. The staff understands that many managers continue to prefer
a pooled investment structure, based on their beliefs that such structures minimize expenses,
increase operational efficiency, and reduce the risk of inequitable treatment of investors. As
with the degree of position-level transparency, the staff noted that the resulting investment
structure was increasingly determined through a negotiation between managers and advisers.
The staff also observed that the key factors in such negotiations were the susceptibility of
assets to misappropriation, transparency into the alternative investment funds’ portfolio
holdings, expenses incurred, and efficiency of operations.
ii. Advisers Are Utilizing Third Parties to Supplement Analyses and Validate
Information Regarding Alternative Investments

•

•

Portfolio Information Aggregators (Risk Aggregators). The staff noticed, as compared to
previous staff observations and as confirmed by the advisers examined, that advisers
increased their use of portfolio information aggregators. Aggregators are generally thirdparty service providers that receive detailed portfolio-level information from private
alternative investment funds, aggregate that information and transmit the aggregated
information to advisers conducting due diligence. Advisers used the aggregated information
to make broad assessments of the risks of the particular alternative investments. The
aggregated information provided to advisers by aggregators was intended to control the
disclosure of sensitive information regarding the alternative investment fund’s specific
positions. The staff observed that in some cases the use of aggregators was a compromise
between the adviser and the manager to resolve differing preferences for position-level
transparency between investors and managers.
Third-Party Service Provider Verification of Relationships and Assets. The staff observed
that many advisers were independently verifying alternative investment relationships and
assets with key third-party service providers, such as administrators, custodians, and auditors.
As gatekeepers, these key service providers play a very important role for private alternative
investment funds. As such, the staff observed that due diligence professionals appeared to
have placed a greater emphasis on verifying the existence of these relationships, and, in some

3

cases, also were verifying that the assets were in fact serviced by the administrator and held
at the custodians identified. In addition, the staff observed that if the adviser was not familiar
with a service provider, some advisers would conduct a certain amount of due diligence on
the service provider in an effort to ensure that the service provider can provide an adequate
level of service to the alternative investment.
•

Independent Administration. The staff observed that some advisers would not make a new
investment or recommendation in a private alternative investment fund if the private fund did
not have an independent third-party administrator. While not required to do so by law, the
staff observed that many advisers invested exclusively with managers that engaged an
independent administrator to conduct comprehensive fund administration services such as
performing net asset value calculations, fund accounting, trade reconciliation, and processing
and recording shareholder activity. The staff understands that the genesis for such an
adviser-mandated requirement is the belief that independent administrative services may
mitigate certain investment and operational risks, such as the misappropriation of investor
assets, and ensures segregation of duties.

•

Third-Party Administrator-Issued Transparency Reports. The staff observed that many
advisers have started receiving “transparency reports” directly from, and independently
produced by, third-party administrators for the benefit of alternative investment investors.
These reports are designed to provide investors with periodic reporting and an increased level
of transparency with respect to the alternative investments’ positions. An administrator’s
report typically includes information about an alternative investment’s: (i) net asset value and
the percentage of its investments that are confirmed by the administrator with independent
custodians; (ii) custodians holding its investments; (iii) percentage of investments that are
priced by a third-party administrator; and (iv) assets and liabilities which are measured at
“fair value” and are categorized using the fair value hierarchy (Level 1, 2, or 3) established
under FASB ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements.

•

Independent Background Checks. The staff observed that most advisers employed the
services of third-party firms to conduct comprehensive background checks on the managers
and their key personnel. The staff also observed that many advisers implemented the use of
background checks to supplement their own due diligence processes. The background check
services were typically outsourced to third-party firms specializing in such services and often
included investigating employment history, legal and regulatory matters, news sources, and
independent reference checks.

•

Regulatory History Review. The staff observed that some advisers utilized FINRA
BrokerCheck, a publicly available tool, 9 to research the backgrounds of current and former
FINRA registered brokerage firms and individual broker-dealer registered representatives.
Along with BrokerCheck, the staff also observed that some advisers reviewed regulatory
filings, such as Form ADV — available on the Commission’s Investment Adviser Public
Disclosure website 10 — and requested that the manager provide the adviser with any

9

Available at http://www.finra.org/Investors/ToolsCalculators/BrokerCheck/.

10

Available at http://www.adviserinfo.sec.gov/IAPD/Content/IapdMain/iapd_SiteMap.aspx

4

examination-related letters from the SEC. The staff understands that advisers typically used
this information to identify important regulatory issues and potential control weaknesses at
the managers.
iii. Advisers Are Performing Additional Quantitative Analyses and Risk Measures
on the Alternative Investments and Their Managers
•

Detection of Manipulation of Performance Returns. As compared to the staff’s observations
in earlier time periods, the staff observed that advisers were increasing the use of quantitative
analysis in an attempt to detect aberrations in investment returns. This measure is intended to
identify managers that have falsified or otherwise manipulated their returns. Advisers
confirmed their increased use of these measures, which typically included: (i) bias ratio; (ii)
serial correlation; and (iii) “skewness” of the return distribution. These measures also were
analyzed in conjunction with factor analysis of the returns in order to detect suspect returns
that may be an indication of manipulation.

•

Supplementation of Investment-Level Decision-Making. The staff observed that advisers
have increased their use of quantitative risk measures to supplement investment-level
decision-making processes. The risk measurements supplemented the investment due
diligence process (e.g., through measures such as factor analysis to provide an indication as
to how closely a manager was implementing the stated strategic approach). The staff also
observed that some advisers’ risk teams used sophisticated quantitative measures to identify
potential problems before those problems would manifest in performance returns or adverse
reports from the manager.
iv. Advisers Are Enhancing and Expanding Their Due Diligence Processes and
Focus Areas

•

Operational Due Diligence Focus. The staff observed that although many advisers have
always had a focus on operational due diligence, some advisers have increased their efforts in
this critical area and other advisers established operational due diligence groups. 11 For
example, the staff found that many advisers had experienced, dedicated operational teams
with the ability to veto any alternative investment manager candidate that did not satisfy a
team’s review. Among other things, this review may include evaluation of the manager’s
policies and procedures regarding valuation.

•

Legal Documents Review. The staff observed that most advisers included a review of legal
documents as part of their due diligence process. In addition, the staff observed that some
advisers focused greater attention on legal reviews in an effort to detect legal document risk.
Document risk may include unique contractual provisions or preclusions that present unique
risks to investors, such as the inability of an investor to liquidate its investment upon certain
events in the alternative investment fund. Legal analysis, which was generally conducted by

11

Operational Due Diligence generally focuses on non-investment risk such as business operations risk and its
associated control environment, including controls related to managing conflicts.

5

the adviser’s legal staff, may include the review of offering materials, side letters,
subscription agreements, and counterparty agreements.
•

Investment Fund Redemption Terms and Liquidity of the Portfolio. The staff observed that
advisers’ due diligence teams tended to focus closely on liquidity issues. The staff was
informed that this increased attention was likely attributed to managers imposing redemption
restrictions on investors during the financial crisis. Specifically, advisers generally assessed
the appropriateness of redemption terms in light of the underlying portfolio composition to
identify significant mismatches in liquidity. In particular, advisers to alternative investments
that invest in other alternative investments appeared to be more sensitive to the liquidity
terms of the underlying managers’ portfolios to ensure that they corresponded with the
liquidity terms of their own alternative investments.

•

Onsite Visit Requirement. The staff observed that most advisers included onsite visits to
managers as part of their investment, risk management, and operational due diligence
reviews. Advisers also informed the staff that onsite visits helped due diligence teams: (i)
understand the culture of the manager; (ii) detect instances where dominant individuals and
inadequate control environments may exist; (iii) and provide increased access to review
documents and to speak with the manager’s personnel.

•

Audited Financial Statements Review. The staff observed that, although many advisers have
previously received and reviewed the audited financial statements of private alternative
investments, some advisers have recently expanded their review of such records. For
example, some advisers were reviewing the audited financial statements, among other
sources, to identify possible related party transactions and to identify valuation concerns.
B. Warning Indicators or Awareness Signals for Concern For Advisers

Advisers utilizing some or all of the due diligence methods noted above did so in an attempt to
identify certain risk indicators during their investment, operational, and risk management
reviews. Some of these indicators, which are noted below, led advisers to conduct additional due
diligence analysis, to request that the manager make appropriate changes, or to reject (or veto)
the manager or the alternative investment. 12
i. Investment
•
•
•
•

12

Managers that were unwilling to provide requisite transparency regarding portfolio holdings
to the adviser;
Performance returns that did not correlate with known factors associated with the manager’s
strategy, as described by the manager;
Lack of clear research and investment processes; and
Lack of an adequate control environment and segregation of duties between investment
activities and business unit controllers (e.g., managers dominating the valuation process).
Staff has observed that, while firms typically have dedicated groups in the areas specified in this section, these
groups usually work in close conjunction and have some degree of overlap.

6

ii. Risk Management
•
•
•
•

Alternative investment portfolio holdings that showed a high concentration in a single
investment position, or a heavy concentration in a single sector, for a purportedly diversified
investment strategy;
Manager personnel that appeared to be insufficiently knowledgeable about a sophisticated
strategy they were purportedly implementing;
Manager investment style that appeared to have drifted over time; and
Investments, as described by the manager, that appeared to be overly complex or opaque.
iii. Operational

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Lack of a third-party administrator or an unknown/unqualified administrator;
Use of an auditor that may not have significant experience auditing private investment funds
or is an unknown auditor;
Multiple changes in key service providers, such as auditors, prime brokers, or administrators;
Concerns identified in audited financial statements such as qualified opinions, related party
transactions, or valuation concerns;
Background checks that revealed unfavorable regulatory history, bankruptcy filings, or
serious legal issues of the manager or key personnel;
Identification of undisclosed potential conflicts of interests, such as compensation
arrangements or business activities with affiliates;
Insufficient operational infrastructure, including an inadequate compliance program; and
Lack of a robust fair valuation process.

II. Staff Observations – Compliance With the Advisers Act
During its examinations, in addition to collecting the information about current practices
described above, the staff also assessed advisers’ compliance with applicable laws, rules and
regulations.
A. Compliance Programs
Advisers are required by Rule 206(4)-7 under the Advisers Act to adopt and implement written
policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violations of the Advisers Act and to
annually review the adequacy of those policies and procedures and the effectiveness of their
implementation. These requirements include: (i) naming a Chief Compliance Officer (“CCO”)
to administer their programs; (ii) adopting compliance policies and procedures; and (iii)
completing annual reviews of the effectiveness of their compliance policies and procedures.
Additionally, while typically not incorporated into the advisers’ compliance manuals, many of
the advisers examined by the staff had written, formal due diligence policies and procedures or
guidance in place; those that did not had, at a minimum, some type of informal due diligence
framework in place. Below are some areas where material deficiencies or control weaknesses
were observed in some of the examinations.

7

•

Annual Review. The staff observed that some advisers, for whom investing in or
recommending alternative investments was a key portion of their business, did not
include in their annual review a review of their due diligence policies and procedures for
such investments.

•

Disclosures Made to Clients. The staff observed that advisers’ disclosures sometimes
deviated from actual practices, and that advisers with material deficiencies in their
disclosures failed to review disclosures for consistency with fiduciary principles or to
describe notable exceptions made to the adviser’s typical due diligence process.

•

Marketing Claims. The staff observed that some advisers’ marketing materials contained
information about the scope and depth of the due diligence process that could be
misleading or statements that appeared to be unsubstantiated. For example, one adviser
overstated the number of research analysts and their average years of experience in the
industry.

In addition to material deficiencies, the staff also made the following observations:
•

Policies and Procedures. The staff observed that advisers were more likely to have due
diligence processes that were consistently applied if they adopted written policies and
procedures that were detailed and required adequate documentation. These advisers
incorporated compliance oversight into their business and operations and were able to use
these policies as an internal guide in the selection and monitoring of portfolio
investments and their related third-party managers.

•

Oversight of Service Providers. The staff observed that in some instances, advisers
delegated certain responsibilities to third-party service providers. Advisers that did not
conduct periodic reviews of their service providers to determine whether the service
providers were abiding by the terms of their agreements were more likely to have
deficiencies in meeting those responsibilities.

B. Code of Ethics
All advisers registered with the SEC must adopt and enforce a written code of ethics reflecting
the adviser’s fiduciary duties to its clients.13 At a minimum, such codes should set forth the
minimum standard of conduct for all “supervised persons” (i.e., employees, officers, directors,
and other persons that the adviser is required to supervise) and must address personal securities
trading by these persons. The code of ethics that each adviser chooses to adopt and implement
should reflect its fiduciary obligations to its clients and the fiduciary obligations of the persons
under its supervision, and require compliance with the federal securities laws.
•

13

Limited offering review. The staff observed instances in which advisers invested in or
recommended a limited offering to their clients, while they also permitted access persons to
acquire an interest in that same limited offering but with preferential investment terms (i.e.,
Advisers Act Rule 204A-1.

8

greater liquidity or reduced fees). Such arrangements create a conflict of interest that may
influence the adviser’s due diligence process to the detriment of clients — the advisory
employee receiving the preferential terms may be incentivized by their own financial
interests rather than the best interest of advisory clients. Furthermore, the staff identified
instances where advisers did not maintain a record of any decision, and the reason supporting
the decision, to approve the acquisition of securities by access persons, as required by Rule
204-2(a)(13)(iii).
III. Conclusion
The staff hopes that this overview of examinations concerning the due diligence practices of
advisers will help to support the compliance programs of registrants.
If you suspect or observe activity that may violate the federal securities laws or otherwise result
in harm to investors, please notify us at: http://www.sec.gov/complaint/info_tipscomplaint.shtml.

This Risk Alert is intended to highlight for firms risks and issues that the staff has identified in the course
of examinations regarding investment adviser due diligence processes for selecting alternative
investments and alternative investment managers. In addition, this Risk Alert describes factors that firms
may consider to (i) assess their supervisory, compliance, and/or other risk management systems related
to these risks, and (ii) make any changes, as may be appropriate, to address or strengthen such systems.
These factors are not exhaustive, nor will they constitute a safe harbor. Other factors besides those
described in this Risk Alert may be appropriate to consider, and some of the factors may not be applicable
to a particular firm’s business. While some of the factors discussed in this Risk Alert reflect existing
regulatory requirements, they are not intended to alter such requirements. Moreover, future changes in
laws or regulations may supersede some of the factors or issues raised here. The adequacy of supervisory,
compliance, and other risk management systems can be determined only with reference to the profile of
each specific firm and other facts and circumstances.

9

