Human Resources Policies and Procedures
Environment/WorkplaceAnti-Harassment
POLICY NUMBER: HR-102
TITLE: Anti-Harassment Policy (excluding Canada)
OWNER: Corporate Legal Department
LAST POLICY COMMITTEE REVIEW DATE: October 2014

1.0 Purpose
It is the goal of EMC to promote a workplace that is free of sexual harassment, and any other type of
discriminatory harassment or retaliation.
2.0 Scope
This policy applies to all EMC Corporation employees worldwide (except where otherwise required by
applicable law), including employees of all EMC divisions and wholly-owned subsidiaries). This policy
applies to EMC employees in all work-related settings and activities, whether inside or outside the
workplace, and includes business trips and business-related social events. This also applies to the
conduct of an EMC employee towards a customer, supplier and contractor. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, in lieu of this policy, HR 108 applies to EMC Canada.
3.0 Policy
The Company will not tolerate sexual or other types of harassment, and will take all steps necessary to
prevent its occurrence. While this policy sets forth EMC's goals of promoting a workplace that is free
from harassment, the policy is not designed or intended to limit EMC's authority to discipline or take
remedial action for workplace conduct which EMC deems unacceptable, regardless of whether that
conduct satisfies the definition of Harassment.
4.0 Responsibilities
The Finance Department is responsible for maintaining and overseeing this policy.
5.0 Prohibition of Sexual Harassment
The Company's policy against sexual harassment prohibits sexual advances, requests for sexual favors
and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature, whether or not such conduct is motivated by
sexual desire, when:
1. submission to or rejection of such conduct is an explicit or implicit term or condition of
employment,
2. the employee's submission to or rejection of such conduct is used as the basis for employment
decisions affecting such individual, or
3. such conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual's work
performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, humiliating or offensive working environment.
While it is not possible to list all those circumstances that may constitute sexual harassment, the
following are some examples of conduct which, if unwelcome, may constitute sexual harassment

EMC Corporation. For Internal Use – Do Not Distribute

Human Resources Policies and Procedures
depending upon the totality of the circumstances including the severity of the conduct and its
pervasiveness:








unwelcome sexual advances, whether they involve physical touching or not;
sexual epithets, jokes, written or oral references to sexual conduct, gossip regarding one's sex
life;
comments about an individual's body, sexual activity, deficiencies, or prowess;
displaying sexually suggestive objects, pictures, or cartoons, including by downloading such
materials from the Internet;
unwelcome leering, whistling, brushing against the body, sexual gestures, or suggestive or
insulting comments;
inquiries into one's sexual experiences; and
discussion of one's sexual activities.

6.0 Prohibition of Other Types of Discriminatory Harassment
The Company's policy also prohibits verbal or physical conduct that denigrates or shows hostility or
aversion toward an individual because of his or her race, color, religion, creed, gender (including
pregnancy), sexual orientation, marital status, gender identity or expression, national origin or ancestry,
genetics, age, disability status, protected veteran status (including disabled veteran, recently separated
veteran, other protected veteran, or Armed Forces service medal veteran), citizenship status when
otherwise legally able to work, or other protected classification, and that:
1. has the purpose or effect of creating an intimidating, hostile, humiliating or offensive working
environment,
2. has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual's work performance, or
3. otherwise adversely affects an individual's employment opportunities.
While it is not possible to list all those circumstances that may constitute discriminatory harassment, the
following are some examples of conduct which may constitute discriminatory harassment depending
upon the totality of the circumstances including the severity of the conduct and its pervasiveness:



epithets, slurs, negative stereotyping, or jokes, or threatening, intimidating or hostile acts that
relate to race or other protected classification;
written or graphic material that denigrates or shows hostility toward an individual or group
because of race or other protected classification and that is circulated in the workplace, or
placed anywhere in the Company's premises such as on an employee's desk, workspace or on
Company computer, email or voicemail.

7.0 Complaint Procedure
Complaints of either sexual or other discriminatory harassment must be brought immediately to the
attention of the applicable Human Resources Operations Manager ("HR Ops Manager"). A listing of HR
Ops Managers is contained on Channel EMC. Alternatively, you may contact the Office of the General
Counsel at (508) 435-1000, extension 77267. Although reports of sexual or discriminatory harassment

EMC Corporation. For Internal Use – Do Not Distribute

Human Resources Policies and Procedures
may be made verbally, employees are strongly encouraged to make any such reports in writing. Written
reports of harassment assist the investigation process.
When a complaint is received, the Human Resources Operations Manager, in conjunction with the Office
of the General Counsel, will promptly investigate the allegation as discreetly and confidentially as
possible. The investigation will normally include a private interview with the person filing the complaint
and with witnesses, as appropriate. The investigation will also normally include an interview of the
person alleged to have committed the harassment. When the investigation is complete, the Human
Resources Operations Manager or the Office of the General Counsel, will, to the extent appropriate,
inform the person filing the complaint and the person alleged to have committed the conduct of the
results of the investigation.
If the Company determines that a violation of this policy has occurred, it will take such disciplinary
action as it deems appropriate, including but not limited to counseling, warnings, transfers, suspensions,
and employment termination.
Moreover, the Company can and will take the disciplinary action it deems appropriate if it determines
that conduct which does not meet the definitions in this policy nevertheless is unprofessional,
inappropriate or otherwise warrants discipline.
8.0 Retaliation
Retaliation against an employee who has complained about sexual or other discriminatory harassment,
or against an individual who has cooperated with an investigation of such harassment is strictly
prohibited and will not be tolerated by EMC.
9.0 Federal and State Remedies
In addition to the above internal resources, individuals may pursue complaints directly with the
government agencies that deal with unlawful harassment and discrimination claims, such as the United
States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (www.eeoc.gov 1-800-669-4000) or applicable state
or local agency.
For example, in Massachusetts, you may file with:
The Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination (MCAD)
www.mass.gov/mcad
(617) 994-6000
In California, you may file with:
California Department of Fair Employment and Housing (DFEH)
www.dfeh.ca.gov
(800) 884-1684

EMC Corporation. For Internal Use – Do Not Distribute

