UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS RULINGS
Release No. 3649/February 26, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17112

In the Matter of
FRAZER FROST, LLP,
SUSAN WOO, CPA, and
MIRANDA SUEN, CPA

PROTECTIVE ORDER

The Division of Enforcement has submitted an unopposed motion to enter a stipulated
protective order. The stipulated order covers sensitive personal information (as defined in
paragraph 1 below) in certain documents contained in the Division’s investigative file, which
shall be made available to Respondents pursuant to Rule of Practice 230, 17 C.F.R. § 201.230.
I GRANT the motion and adopt the stipulated order, as modified by bold typeface. I find
that the harm resulting from the public disclosure of sensitive personal information would
outweigh any benefit of disclosure. See 17 C.F.R. § 201.322(b).
Stipulated Protective Order
1.
As used in this Protective Order, the term “Sensitive Personal Information” shall mean
any documents or other information containing any one or more of the following categories of
personal and private documents or information: (a) a social security or tax identification
number; (b) individuals’ financial account statements, including statements for any bank
account, credit card account, brokerage account, mortgage, student loan, or other loan; (c) any
financial account number, including for a bank account, credit card account, brokerage account,
mortgage, student loan, or other loan; (d) tax returns; (e) the home address and phone number of
any individual person; (f) the birth date of any individual person; (g) the name of any individual
person who, at the time the order instituting proceedings (“OIP”) was filed in this matter, was
known to be less than 18 years old; or (h) medical information. Sensitive Personal Information
does not include the last four digits of a financial account number or phone number, the city and
state of an individual’s home address, the year of an individual’s birth, or copies of unredacted
filings by regulated entities or registrants that are available on the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s public website.

2.
Sensitive Personal Information disclosed to any Respondent in this action or to his or its
counsel during the course of this action:
a.

Shall be used only for the purposes of this action;

b.

Shall not be used for any business or commercial purposes;

c.

Shall not be published to the public in any form, except as permitted by
Paragraphs 5 and 7, below;

d.

May be disclosed only to the following persons, on an as-needed basis in the
course of the litigation, with reasonable precautions taken to ensure the
confidentiality of the information:
i.

A Respondent;

ii.

Employees or contractors of any law firm that represents a Respondent,
including attorneys and secretarial, clerical, paralegal, legal, or student
personnel, and any person or entity with whom a Respondent’s counsel
contracts to reproduce or manage documents;

iii.

Non-party witnesses;

iv.

A document’s author(s) or recipient(s);

v.

Independent (non-employee) consultants, expert witnesses, or advisors
retained by any of the parties to this action in connection with this action;

vi.

Court reporters or stenographers – and their employees – who are engaged
to record hearing testimony or depositions upon oral examination;

vii.

The Securities and Exchange Commission and its employees, agents, or
contractors; and

viii.

Such other persons as hereafter may be authorized by either (1) written
consent of all the parties or (2) the Hearing Officer upon motion of either
party.

3.
A copy of this Protective Order shall be delivered to each of the named parties or persons
within paragraph 2.d above to whom a disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information is made, at
or before the time of disclosure, by the party making the disclosure. The provisions of this
Protective Order shall be binding upon each person to whom disclosure is made.
4.

The provisions of this Protective Order shall not be construed as preventing:
a.

Any disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information to any party to this action;
2

b.

Any disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information to any Hearing Officer, law
clerk, or member or employee of the Securities and Exchange Commission for
any purposes of this action; or

c.

Any disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information for the purpose of enforcing the
criminal law or as otherwise required by law.

5.
Except as otherwise ordered, prior to making a public filing of any document in these
proceedings, the Division of Enforcement and Respondents agree to redact all Sensitive Personal
Information from the document. The Division and Respondents also agree to take reasonable
and appropriate measures to prevent unauthorized disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information
contained in documents produced or filed in these proceedings, including by persons to whom
the Division or Respondents show or give access to such documents. In the event that redacting
a filing is impracticable or would result in a filing being almost entirely redacted, the parties
shall file the document under seal together with a copy of this Order. If a document is filed
under seal, it may be disclosed to the parties or persons under paragraph 2.d. In addition, if a
party intends to make a filing (such as a brief or motion) that incorporates Sensitive Personal
Information in the written text, the party must: 1) file a version clearly labeled “under seal,” with
the Sensitive Personal Information subject to this Order noted by brackets, bold typeface, or
some other clear indication; and 2) file a public redacted version that removes the Sensitive
Personal Information.
6.

This Protective Order shall not:
a.

Operate as an admission by any party that any particular document in fact
contains Sensitive Personal Information;

b.

Prejudice in any way the right of a party to seek a determination of whether such
material is or should be subject to the terms of this Protective Order;

c.

Prevent a Respondent’s or non-party’s disclosure of its own Sensitive Personal
Information; or

d.

Prejudice in any way the right of any party to apply to the Hearing Officer for a
further protective order relating to any other confidential information or Sensitive
Personal Information.

7.
Nothing in this Protective Order shall preclude the parties from offering Sensitive
Personal Information into evidence at the hearing of this action or in any other proceeding in this
action, subject to the restrictions set forth in this Protective Order.
8.
This Protective Order shall survive the termination of the litigation. Unless otherwise
agreed or ordered, this Protective Order shall remain in force after dismissal or entry of final
judgment not subject to further appeal.

3

9.
This Protective Order shall be subject to modification by the Hearing Officer or the
Commission on the Hearing Officer’s or the Commission’s own motion or on motion of a party
or any other person with standing concerning the subject matter.

_______________________________
James E. Grimes
Administrative Law Judge

4

