UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS RULINGS
Release No. 3759/April 4, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-16463

In the Matter of
AEGIS CAPITAL, LLC,
CIRCLE ONE WEALTH MANAGEMENT, LLC,
DIANE W. LAMM,
STRATEGIC CONSULTING ADVISORS, LLC, AND
DAVID I. OSUNKWO

SCHEDULING ORDER

The Securities and Exchange Commission instituted this proceeding in March 2015. I
stayed it in June 2015 and lifted the stay in February 2016. A telephonic prehearing conference
was held on March 9, 2016. On March 10, I issued an order noting that the “parties agreed to
confer and submit a joint letter suggesting a prehearing schedule, hearing location, and a hearing
date commencing in July.” Aegis Capital, LLC, Admin. Proc. Rulings Release. No. 3692, 2016
SEC LEXIS 920. The parties have submitted two separate letters with different prehearing
schedules and hearing locations. I ORDER the following schedule, which attempts to take into
account the concerns of all parties:
June 20, 2016:

Expert reports, if any, are due.

June 27, 2016:

Parties exchange and file witness and exhibit lists and shall
exchange, but not file, premarked copies of exhibits.

July 5, 2016:

Motions in limine, including objections to witnesses and exhibits,
and amendments to witness lists are due.

July 11, 2016:

Stipulations, requests for official notice, and admissions of fact are
due.

July 15, 2016:

Oppositions to motions in limine, rebuttal expert reports, and
prehearing briefs are due.

July 20, 2016:

The parties will participate in a telephonic prehearing conference,
at a time to be determined.

July 25, 2016:

The hearing will begin at 9:30 a.m. EDT in Charlotte, North
Carolina, at a location to be determined.

The parties are reminded that all filings must be filed in hard copy with the Office of the
Secretary. See 17 C.F.R. §§ 201.151, .152. They are asked to email courtesy copies of filings to
alj@sec.gov in Word and in PDF text-searchable format. Electronic copies of exhibits should
not be combined into a single PDF file, but sent as separate attachments, and should be provided
in text-searchable format whenever practicable.
Hearing Guidelines
I will follow the general guidelines described below during these proceedings. The
parties should review what follows and promptly raise any objections they may have to the
application of these guidelines in this matter.
1.
Subpoenas. A party’s motion to quash a subpoena will be due within five business days
of the submission of the subpoena for signing. Any opposition to the motion to quash will be
due within five business days thereafter.
2.
Exhibits. The parties should confer and attempt to stipulate to the admissibility of
exhibits. In order to avoid duplication of exhibits, the parties should identify joint exhibits.
Exhibits are not filed with the Office of the Secretary until the close of the hearing at my
instruction.
3.
Exhibit lists. A comprehensive exhibit list prevents other parties from being surprised in
the middle of the hearing. Given this fact, exhibit lists shall be exchanged among the parties and
should include all documents that a party expects to use in the hearing for any purpose. This
includes documents that are relevant only for impeachment purposes or which are presumptively
inadmissible. The parties should serve their opponents with any amendments to their individual
exhibit list. Because I rely on the parties’ exhibit lists, the parties should provide me with a
paper copy of their final exhibit lists at the beginning of the hearing. There is no need in the
interim to submit exhibit lists or amendments to my office. Following the hearing, I will issue a
separate order directing the parties to file a list of all exhibits, admitted and offered but not
admitted, together with citations to the record indicating when each exhibit was admitted.
4.
Expert reports and testimony. Expert witness disclosures must, at minimum, comply
with Rule 222(b), including the provision of a “brief summary” of an expert’s expected
testimony. 17 C.F.R. § 201.222(a)(4), (b). Expert reports should be as specific and detailed as
those presented under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 26(a)(2). Failure to comply with these
requirements may result in the striking of an expert’s report. The filing of the expert’s report
according to the prehearing schedule essentially constitutes the filing of the expert’s direct
testimony. During the hearing, the expert will not be subject to direct examination, and will
simply be sworn in and proffered for cross-examination. On request, however, a party may
conduct a brief direct examination of the party’s expert.
5.
Hearing schedule. The first day of the proceeding will begin at 9:30 a.m. Unless
circumstances require a different schedule, we will begin each subsequent day at 9:00 a.m. Each
day of the proceeding should last until at least 5:15 p.m. I generally take one break in the
2

morning, lasting about fifteen minutes, and at least one break in the afternoon. I generally break
for lunch between noon and 12:30 p.m., for about one hour.
6.

Hearing issues.
A.

Examination.

i)
In general, the Division of Enforcement presents its case first, because it
has the burden of proof. Respondents then present their case. If necessary, the parties
may agree to proceed in some other order and may take witnesses out of order.
ii)
If the Division calls a non-party witness that a Respondent also wishes to
call as a witness, that Respondent should cross-examine the witness as if he or she were
calling the witness in his or her own case. This means that cross-examination may
exceed the scope of direct examination. This will avoid the need to recall a witness just
so the witness can testify for the Respondent’s case.
iii)
I am flexible regarding the manner of presenting the testimony of
Respondents, so long as the parties agree on it. By way of example, if the Division calls
a Respondent as its last witness, the parties may agree that the Respondent’s counsel will
conduct the direct examination, followed by the Division’s cross-examination, which
may exceed the scope of direct. In the absence of any agreement, Respondents’
testimony will proceed in the usual manner, i.e., Respondents will be called as witnesses
and examined potentially multiple times. If the Division calls a Respondent as a witness
and that Respondent later testifies as part of his or her own case, the Division’s
cross-examination during that Respondent’s case will be limited to the scope of the direct
examination.
iv)
In general, cross-examination may be conducted by leading questions,
even as to Division witnesses that a Respondent wishes to call in his or her own case.
Counsel may not lead his or her client, however. As a result, if a Respondent is called as
a witness in the Division’s case, that Respondent’s counsel may not ask leading questions
on cross-examination. Similarly, if a Commission employee is called as a witness for a
Respondent, the Division may not ask leading questions on cross-examination.
7.
Pleadings. Prehearing and post-hearing briefs are limited to 14,000 words. Cf. 17 C.F.R.
§ 201.450(c) (imposing a word-limit for briefs filed before the Commission). Parties may seek
leave to exceed this limit through a motion filed seven days in advance of the relevant briefing
deadline. To enhance the readability of pleadings, I urge counsel to limit the use of acronyms to
those that are widely known. See Antonin Scalia & Bryan A. Garner, Making Your Case: The
Art of Persuading Judges 120-22 (2008); see also Del. Riverkeeper Network v. FERC, 753 F.3d
1304, 1320-21 (D.C. Cir. 2014) (Silberman, J., concurring). For the same reason, I ask that
counsel use the same font size in footnotes as that used in the body of a pleading.

_______________________________
James E. Grimes
Administrative Law Judge
3

