UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS RULINGS
Release No. 3533/January 22, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-16836

In the Matter of
STEVEN J. MUEHLER,
ALTERNATIVE SECURITIES MARKETS
GROUP CORP., AND
BLUE COAST SECURITIES CORP., DBA
GLOBALCROWDTV, INC., AND BLUE
COAST BANC

ORDER DENYING RESPONDENTS’
MOTION TO QUASH

On January 18, 2016, Respondents moved to quash or limit a subpoena I issued at the
request of the Division of Enforcement pursuant to Rule of Practice 232, 17 C.F.R. § 201.232.
The subpoena ordered the production of various categories of “documents pertaining to conduct
that occurred since the filing of the [order instituting proceedings (OIP)] in this matter,” based on
matters that Respondents identified in their amended answer. Div. Request for Subpoena at 1.
With regard to the nine categories of requested documents that Respondents do not object
to—categories 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 12, 13, and 14—I order that Respondents produce those documents
to the Division no later than January 29, 2016.
With regard to the eight categories of requested documents that Respondents contend are
subject to “confidentiality agreements and non-disclosure agreements,” could “provide a
competitor . . . an unfair business advantage,” or otherwise implicate “sensitive or confidential
information” —categories 3, 8, 9, 10, 11, 15, 16, and 17—I order that the Division, no later than
January 27, 2016, confer with Respondents and file a proposed protective order sufficient to
ensure that such documents will be produced solely for this proceeding and shall not be included
as part of the public record. Such an order shall adequately protect the stated concerns of
confidentiality or sensitive information.
Upon receipt of this order, Respondents must
expeditiously convey it to the unnamed parties of the “confidentiality agreements and nondisclosure agreements,” who are permitted to file any objections to this proposed course of
action no later than January 28, 2016. Assuming that the proposed protective order is
appropriate, subject to my consideration of any meritorious objections by non-parties,
Respondents must produce all responsive documents to these eight categories, subject to the

prospective protective order and any applicable privilege claims, to the Division on January 29,
2016.
Respondents also contend that the preceding eight categories are “vague and ambiguous,”
have “no relevance to the matter at hand,” or are sought “only for annoyance, embarrassment,
oppression and undue burden or expense.” I am unpersuaded by these assertions. By their plain
language, the requests are straightforward and relate to facts put squarely at issue by
Respondents’ amended answer and the allegations in the OIP. At the prehearing conference of
January 4, 2016, Respondents declined my offer to help clarify the scope of the subpoena, if any
such clarification was necessary. Tr. at 32-38. Respondents also apparently rejected my
recommendation for a meet and confer with the Division regarding any objections. Tr. at 37-38.
Respondents’ asserted explanations, which are unsubstantiated, do not justify limiting the
subpoena.
As such, I DENY Respondents’ motion to quash or limit the subpoena except that certain
documents shall be produced subject to a protective order as previously described.

_______________________________
Jason S. Patil
Administrative Law Judge

2

