UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS RULINGS
Release No. 3756/April 1, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17157

In the Matter of
STEVEN ZOERNACK AND
EQUITYSTAR CAPITAL MANAGEMENT, LLC

ORDER POSTPONING HEARING,
GRANTING EXTENSION, AND
DIRECTING FOR A DECLARATION
OF SERVICE

On March 8, 2016, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued an order instituting
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings (OIP) against Respondents pursuant to Section
8A of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sections
203(e), 203(f), and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and Section 9(b) of the
Investment Company Act of 1940. A hearing is currently scheduled for April 11, 2016.
Service
On March 22, 2016, my office communicated with the parties to inquire whether the OIP
was served on Respondents. The Division of Enforcement replied that the OIP had been served
on both Respondents, and attached an email from the Office of the Secretary, which included
screenshots of U.S. Postal Service tracking information. These screenshots simply indicate that a
delivery occurred on March 16, 2016, in Naples, Florida. They do not provide the specific
address to which the OIP was delivered and whether such address is a valid address of each
Respondent. In its email to the Division, the Office of the Secretary noted that it had not yet
received return receipts from the U.S. Postal Service confirming delivery.
Given this lack of confirmation of service, and uncertainty as to Respondents’ specific
address(es), my office requested that the parties confirm that Respondent Steven Zoernack was
properly served with the OIP and that he accepted service of the OIP on behalf of Respondent
EquityStar Capital Management, LLC. The Division responded via email that: (1) it believed
Mr. Zoernack and EquityStar received actual notice of the proceedings; (2) Mr. Zoernack was
properly served because emails exchanged between Mr. Zoernack and the Division establish
“confirmed telegraphic notice” pursuant to Commission Rule of Practice 141(a)(2)(i); (3) since
Mr. Zoernack is the managing member and only employee of EquityStar, serving him satisfies
Rule 141(a)(2)(ii) as to service on EquityStar; and (4) Mr. Zoernack is in the “best position” to
say whether he received a copy of the OIP from the U.S. Postal Service.

I find that service of the OIP on Respondents is not yet established in accordance with
Rule 141(a)(2). See 17 C.F.R. § 201.141(a)(2)(i), (ii). A precise date of service of the OIP in
these proceedings must be established because it triggers when Respondents’ answers are due
and when the initial decision must be issued. See OIP at 8; 17 C.F.R. §§ 201.220(b), .360(a)(2).
I reject the assertion that an email meets the standard of “confirmed telegraphic notice” under
Rule 141(a)(2)(i).
Accordingly, I ORDER that by April 6, 2016, the Division shall file a declaration with
supporting evidence confirming whether service has been properly accomplished in accordance
with Rule 141. To the extent the Division relies on serving Mr. Zoernack on behalf of
EquityStar, it must provide evidence that Mr. Zoernack is a managing member or officer of
EquityStar. In lieu of a declaration of service, the Division may file a stipulation from Mr.
Zoernack that he was served with the OIP on a specific date on behalf of himself and EquityStar.
Postponement and Extension
On March 21, 2016, the Division moved to convert the April 11 hearing to a telephonic
prehearing conference. The Division represented that “Mr. Zoernack has indicated that he is not
currently willing to confer, and instead has asked the undersigned to grant him a 30-day
extension of time to secure representation,” and it attached an email exchange with Mr. Zoernack
to that effect. Motion at 2; Att. at 5. I construe Mr. Zoernack’s correspondence with the
Division as a request for a thirty-day extension of time to answer and conduct the prehearing
conference, and as a waiver of Respondents’ right to a hearing commencing between thirty and
sixty days from service of the OIP. See 15 U.S.C. §§ 77h-1(b), 78u-3(b), 80b-3(k)(2); 17 C.F.R.
§ 201.161.
Pursuant to Rule 161(a), a hearing officer “may, for good cause shown,” extend any time
limits for filing papers and may postpone or adjourn any hearing. 17 C.F.R. § 201.161(a). But
the hearing officer “should adhere to a policy of strongly disfavoring such requests, except in
circumstances where the requesting party makes a strong showing that the denial of the request
. . . would substantially prejudice their case.” 17 C.F.R. § 201.161(b)(1).
“In determining whether to grant any requests,” I must “consider, in addition to any
other relevant factors: (i) [t]he length of the proceeding to date; (ii) [t]he number of
postponements, adjournments or extensions already granted; (iii) [t]he stage of the proceedings
at the time of the request; (iv) [t]he impact of the request on the hearing officer’s ability to
complete the proceeding in the time specified by the Commission; and (v) [a]ny other such
matters as justice may require.” Id. (formatting altered). The first three factors weigh in favor of
granting the request because the proceeding is at a preliminary stage, and no extensions have
been granted. The fourth factor – my ability to complete the proceeding in the 300-day timeline
– weighs against granting the requested extension. While that loss of time is significant,
foregoing any further extensions, the adverse impact will be manageable. And because
Respondents currently lack representation, it would be in the interest of justice to grant them a
short extension so they can better prepare an answer and any affirmative defenses.

2

As such, Respondents’ request for an extension is GRANTED. Notice(s) of appearance
by Respondents’ counsel, if any, and Respondents’ answer(s) must be filed by May 11, 2016,
provided that service of the OIP is properly established as set forth above.
The Division’s motion to convert the hearing to a prehearing conference is GRANTED
IN PART. The hearing scheduled for April 11, 2016, is POSTPONED. By May 12, 2016, the
parties will hold a prehearing conference without the hearing officer to discuss each numbered
item in Rule 221(c), 17 C.F.R. § 201.221(c), including the date by which each item will be
accomplished. By May 13, the parties shall file a joint prehearing conference statement, which
addresses each numbered item in Rule 221(c), includes proposed due dates where applicable,1
and proposes a procedural schedule that will result in a hearing commencing no later than
August 1, 2016. See 17 C.F.R. § 201.360(a)(2). Based on this prehearing conference statement,
a subsequent prehearing conference with the hearing officer will be scheduled as appropriate.
While the parties are welcome to satisfy any or all of the preceding obligations before the
prescribed deadlines, these are firm deadlines, not subject to extension, given the additional
thirty days already provided.
The parties are also asked to email electronic courtesy copies of any filings in this
proceeding in Word and PDF text-searchable format to ALJ@sec.gov.

_______________________________
Jason S. Patil
Administrative Law Judge

1

The parties may denote that an item is “not applicable” in their filing.
3

