UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS RULINGS
Release No. 3685/March 8, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17070
In the Matter of
3C ADVISORS & ASSOCIATES, INC.,
STEPHEN JONES, AND
DAVID PROLMAN

PROTECTIVE ORDER

Respondents and the Division of Enforcement have submitted stipulated proposed
protective orders covering documents in the Division’s investigative file containing personally
identifiable or sensitive financial information. I construe these filings as joint motions for entry
of a protective order. I find that the harm resulting from the public disclosure of such
information would outweigh any benefit of disclosure.
See 17 C.F.R. § 201.322(b).
Accordingly, the motions are GRANTED in part, as set forth below:
1.
If the Division’s investigative file in this matter includes documents that contain
personally identifiable or sensitive financial information (confidential documents), the parties
shall maintain the confidentiality of such confidential documents and not disclose them or the
information contained therein to the public or third parties. Personally identifiable or sensitive
financial information includes: a social security or taxpayer identification number; financial
account number, including bank account, brokerage account, and investment account
information; credit card or debit card number; passport number; driver’s license number; stateissued identification number; home address or home telephone number of an individual; the
name of any individual person known to be less than 18 years old; dates of birth; and any
sensitive information concerning financial condition or medical history. It does not include the
last four digits of a social security number, financial account number, or phone number; the city
and state of an individual’s home address; the year of an individual’s birth; the minor’s and
mother’s maiden name initials; or copies of unredacted filings by regulated entities or registrants
that are available on the Commission’s public website.
2.
So long as the confidentiality is maintained, the confidential documents may be
disclosed to the parties to this proceeding, legal counsel, and any trial teams, including experts
and contractors; the undersigned; and the Securities and Exchange Commission and its
employees, staff, and agents.
3.
The parties shall take reasonable and appropriate measures to prevent
unauthorized disclosure of the personally identifiable or sensitive financial information.

4.
All persons who receive access to the confidential documents shall keep the
information contained therein confidential, and shall not divulge such information to any person
except as expressly authorized by this protective order or further order.
5.
If a party intends to file the confidential documents in this proceeding or any
appeal therefrom, the party must: a) file a version clearly labeled “under seal” pursuant to this
protective order; and b) file a public, redacted version removing all personally identifiable or
sensitive financial information. If filing a public, redacted version is impracticable or would
result in a filing being almost entirely redacted, then the party shall file only the “under seal”
filing, together with a copy of this protective order. In addition, if a party intends to make a
filing (such as a brief or motion) that incorporates personally identifiable or sensitive financial
information in the written text, the party must: 1) file a version clearly labeled “under seal,” with
the information subject to this protective order noted by brackets, bold typeface, or some other
clear indication; and 2) file a public, redacted version that removes the information.
6.
This protective order does not encompass documents that Respondents did not
obtain from the Division’s investigative file, such as documents that were already in their
possession or documents that they obtained on their own. However, if such documents contain
personally identifiable or sensitive financial information, and Respondents intend to file them in
this administrative proceeding, they should file them in accordance with paragraph 5 of this
order.
7.
If material in the investigative file does not contain personally identifiable or
sensitive financial information, but a party believes it should be considered confidential and
subject to a protective order, that party must file a motion in accordance with Rule of Practice
322. See 17 C.F.R. § 201.322(a).
8.
Any person requesting relief from, or modification of, this protective order may
file an appropriate motion.
SO ORDERED.
________________________
Cameron Elliot
Administrative Law Judge

2

