UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS RULINGS
Release No. 3717/March 16, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-16893

In the Matter of
JAMES A. EVANS, JR.

ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR SANCTIONS
WITHOUT PREJUDICE AND SCHEDULING
PREHEARING CONFERENCE

On October 13, 2015, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued an order
instituting proceedings (OIP) against James A. Evans, Jr., pursuant to Section 203(f) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940. This proceeding is a follow-on proceeding based on SEC v.
James A. Evans, Jr., 15-cv-1118 (N.D. Ga.), in which the district court entered a default
judgment enjoining Evans from future violations of certain provisions of the federal securities
laws.
As a result of Evans’ failure to file an answer to the OIP or otherwise defend this
proceeding, I found him in default and ordered the Division of Enforcement to file a motion for
sanctions by January 15, 2016. James A. Evans, Jr., Admin. Proc. Rulings Release No. 3434,
2015 SEC LEXIS 5301 (ALJ Dec. 28, 2015). I directed that the “motion shall provide legal
authority and evidentiary support relating to the OIP’s allegations and the Division’s requested
sanctions, in accordance with Rapoport v. SEC, 682 F.3d 98 (D.C. Cir. 2012), and Ross Mandell,
Exchange Act Release No. 71668, 2014 SEC LEXIS 849, at *7-9 (Mar. 7, 2014).” Id. After the
Division did not file the motion by the January 15 due date, I scheduled a prehearing conference
for February 3, 2016, at which Division counsel requested, and I granted, an extension of the
deadline for the motion for sanctions to February 12, 2016. James A. Evans, Jr., Admin. Proc.
Rulings Release No. 3571, 2016 SEC LEXIS 382 (ALJ Feb. 3, 2016).
On February 12, the Division filed a motion for summary disposition and default
judgment, with eleven exhibits in support (Exs. A-K). The Division requests that Evans “be
permanently barred from participating in the securities industry in any manner whatsoever.”
Motion at 20. I must consider a minimum of six factors to determine whether this sanction
serves the public interest: 1) the egregiousness of the respondent’s actions; 2) the isolated or
recurrent nature of the infraction; 3) the degree of scienter involved; 4) the sincerity of the
respondent’s assurances against future violations; 5) the respondent’s recognition of the
wrongful nature of his conduct; and 6) the likelihood that the respondent’s occupation will
present opportunities for future violations. Steadman v. SEC, 603 F.2d 1126, 1140 (5th Cir.

1979), aff’d on other grounds, 450 U.S. 91 (1981); see Gary M. Kornman, Exchange Act
Release No. 59403, 2009 SEC LEXIS 367, at *22 (Feb. 13, 2009), pet. denied, 592 F.3d 173
(D.C. Cir. 2010). In Ross Mandell, the Commission directed that before imposing an industrywide bar, an administrative law judge must “review each case on its own facts to make findings
regarding the respondent’s fitness to participate in the industry in the barred capacities,” and that
the law judge’s decision “should be grounded in specific findings regarding the protective
interests to be served by barring the respondent and the risk of future misconduct.” 2014 SEC
LEXIS 849, at *8 (internal quotation marks omitted). The current record – which consists of the
OIP and exhibits filed in support of the Division’s motion – does not allow me to adequately
conduct the required public interest analysis.
As a result of Evans’ default, I deem true the OIP’s allegations. See 17 C.F.R.
§ 201.155(a). The OIP alleges that Evans – while acting as both an investment adviser and a
person associated with an investment adviser – operated the website cashflowbot.com under the
business name DollarMonster, through which he represented to investors that: DollarMonster
was a financial advisor with more than 120 management teams and $38 million in assets under
management; DollarMonster managed a hedge fund that purchased stocks on behalf of investors
in the fund; DollarMonster’s “private fund” had “opened to the public worldwide”; and investors
would make “big profits.” OIP at 1-2. The OIP also alleges that: Evans purported to provide
advice related to securities through DollarMonster; at least one version of the DollarMonster
website specifically misrepresented that the fund purchased stocks on behalf of investors; and
Evans withdrew more than $30,000 of investor funds for personal use as compensation, roughly
matching the disclosed fees of 2.5% of funds invested. Id. a 2. These allegations, by
themselves, provide little detail about the egregiousness of Evans’ misconduct, his level of
scienter, the isolated or recurrent nature of any infractions, or the likelihood of future violations.1
The Division’s motion consists largely of a recitation of facts from the complaint filed
against Evans in the underlying civil action. The complaint alleged that: Evans violated the
antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws by perpetrating a Ponzi scheme through the
DollarMonster website, which collapsed and caused investor losses, and by making false
misrepresentations in the course of this scheme; and Evans violated the registration provisions of
the federal securities laws by illegally selling unregistered securities. Ex. H at 1-3, 6-10, 12-19.
The complaint also alleged that after DollarMonster ceased operations, Evans continued to raise
funds from investors through a new website. Id. at 10-11.
However, I have doubts about the appropriateness of relying on the complaint in the
underlying civil action, which was resolved by default, to resolve this proceeding. As the
Commission ruled in Gary L. McDuff, “the law judge . . . erred when he based his sanctions
determination on the allegations in a civil complaint on which [the respondent] defaulted” as
those allegations did not “have the necessary preclusive effect to make th[e]” required public
interest determination. Exchange Act Release No. 74803, 2015 SEC LEXIS 1657, at *3 (Apr.
1

The remaining OIP allegations relate to the underlying civil action and what the complaint in
that action alleged. Although I deem true the fact that the civil complaint made certain
allegations against Evans, the OIP did not adopt those allegations from the civil complaint as
substantive facts but simply relayed what the civil complaint alleged.
2

23, 2015). Without providing additional guidance, the Commission opined that “[s]uch
allegations may, in certain circumstances, provide a basis for assessing whether sanctions are
appropriate . . . .” Id. at *11. But the Division fails to distinguish McDuff or explain why it is
appropriate to assess sanctions against Evans based on the allegations in the civil complaint.
Moreover, the district court made no independent findings upon which I could rely for the public
interest analysis; rather, its default judgment simply adopted the complaint’s allegations. See Ex.
J (SEC v. Evans, No. 15-cv-1118 (N.D. Ga. Sept. 30, 2015), ECF No. 9); cf. Don Warner
Reinhard, Exchange Act Release No. 61506, 2010 SEC LEXIS 1010, at *14 n.25 (Feb. 4, 2010)
(“There could be cases . . . in which a district court receives evidence and makes findings
following entry of a default judgment with relevance to our sanctions analysis.”).
Even considering the remaining exhibits submitted in support of the Division’s motion,
the record still fails to provide an adequate basis to impose permanent industry bars. Several
exhibits are simply screenshots of the DollarMonster website at various dates; standing alone,
they do not demonstrate that the representations made on the website were false or that Evans
perpetrated a Ponzi scheme. Exs. B-E. Another exhibit consists of monthly webhosting invoices
billed to Evans and a complaint to the online WHOIS domain database alleging that the
cashflowbot.com website is running a scam and should be taken offline. Ex. F. The Division’s
evidence also includes bank account statements and bank transfer authorizations, but these
documents only show that Evans had access to DollarMonster’s accounts and withdrew money.
Ex. G. Likewise, email communications between DollarMonster and a single investor illustrate
that the investor was not receiving the payouts or earnings she expected from her investments
and her concerns about how funds were being invested. See Ex. A. For example, in an email
dated September 13, 2012, this investor asserted that there was a “rumor” that “$600,000 [was]
missing” and her belief that DollarMonster was “in over [its] head [but] . . . really not intending
to swindle anyone.” Id. The investor questioned why DollarMonster continued to take money
from new investors. Id. Other emails from or to this same investor similarly raise red flags
about DollarMonster, but they do not establish that Evans, through DollarMonster, was
misrepresenting its operations or operating a Ponzi scheme.2
While it is true that Evans has not appeared in this action to make assurances against
future violations or to show that he recognizes the wrongful nature of his conduct, those factors
are not dispositive, particularly given the lack of evidence for the other public interest factors. In
addition to deficiencies with the evidence itself, the Division’s motion only cites to exhibits
generally, without showing which particular exhibit supports any particular factual assertion.
See, e.g., Motion at 5-6 (setting forth assertions about the “Mechanics of the DollarMonster

2

Based on my review of the submitted exhibits, certain representations to this investor and that
appeared on the DollarMonster website are indeed suspect. See, e.g., Ex. A at 1 (the
“DollarMonster Team” emailed an investor that “[a]fter [the] two days has passed, your
investment is doubled to $183.00”); Ex. C at 9 (from the website: “Daily Profit for 11/11/2013
is 1.1%”); Ex. E at 1 (from the website: “If you purchase a position for $10.00, then your
position will pay out $20.00 directly to your SolidTrustPay account”). The Division, however,
does not provide supporting evidence or argument as to why representations made to this
investor, or that appeared on the website, were false.
3

Scheme” with a general reference “See Exhibits A through G”). The better approach would be
to support each sentence relating to a factual assertion with a specific record citation.
Because I do not at this time have sufficient evidence to evaluate all of the public interest
factors, resolution of this proceeding may require a hearing. For these reasons, I DENY the
Division’s motion without prejudice. I ORDER that a telephonic prehearing conference will be
held on March 22, 2016, at 11:00 a.m. EDT, at which the logistics of further proceedings will be
discussed.

_______________________________
Cameron Elliot
Administrative Law Judge

4

