UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS RULINGS
Release No. 3531/January 21, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-16755

In the Matter of
SUCCESS TRADE, INC.,
SUCCESS TRADE SECURITIES, INC., and
FUAD AHMED

POST-HEARING ORDER

On August 14, 2015, the Securities and Exchange Commission instructed that
proceedings in this matter continue on the limited issue of certain remedial sanctions as to
Respondent Fuad Ahmed. The order instituting proceedings (OIP) made numerous findings of
fact and conclusions of law, which Ahmed agreed not to contest, and which the Commission
instructed I accept as true. Success Trade, Inc., Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Release No.
75707, 2015 SEC LEXIS 3390, at *22.
A hearing was held on January 20, 2016. At the close of the hearing, I issued posthearing instructions. This order memorializes and supplements those instructions.
1. By January 28, 2016, the parties shall file briefing on the admissibility of exhibits 385
and 394.
2. By February 1, 2016, the parties shall file paper copies of their exhibits, both
admitted and offered but not admitted, with the Commission’s Office of the
Secretary. See 17 C.F.R. §§ 201.350, .351. The parties should also provide this
office with electronic copies of the exhibits.
3. Also by February 1, 2016, the parties shall file a list of admitted exhibits and exhibits
offered but not admitted. This exhibit list should include the exhibit number; a
description of the exhibit; Bates-stamp numbers, if any; and page(s) in the hearing
transcript where the exhibit was offered and admitted, if applicable. A courtesy copy
of the exhibit list should be submitted to alj@sec.gov in Microsoft Excel or Word
format.
4. Stipulations or motions regarding transcript corrections, if any, shall be filed by
February 12, 2016. See 17 C.F.R. § 201.302(c).

5. By March 4, 2016, the Division of Enforcement shall file its post-hearing brief and
proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law (additional from those in the OIP,
which I deem true) relevant to the sanctions assessment at issue.
6. By March 18, 2016, Ahmed shall file his post-hearing brief and proposed findings of
fact and conclusions of law (additional from those in the OIP, which I deem true)
relevant to the sanctions assessment at issue. The post-hearing brief should contain
both Ahmed’s affirmative case and his response to the Division’s post-hearing brief.
Ahmed may also file a response to the Division’s proposed findings of fact and
conclusions of law. Any such response shall be numbered and limited to a
counterstatement of the factual finding or legal conclusion, specifically identifying
the language that is disputed, and then supporting that counterstatement by citations
and quotation(s) as described below.
7. The parties’ proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law should follow these
guidelines:
a. Proposed findings of fact shall be numbered and must be supported by
citations to specific portions of the record. Each citation shall be
accompanied by quotation(s) of the key language that best supports the
proposed finding. If the language is drawn from witness testimony, the
witness should be identified. If the language is drawn from an exhibit, an
abbreviated exhibit description should be included. Each party is requested,
but not required, to attach a timeline to its proposed findings of fact that
identifies significant events.
b. Proposed conclusions of law shall be numbered and must be supported by
citations to legal authority. Each citation shall be accompanied by
quotation(s) of the key language of the legal authority that best supports the
proposed conclusion.
c. The parties should strive to concisely and clearly set forth the most relevant
facts and legal principles supporting each proposition. Moreover, the purpose
of the parties’ proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law is to adduce,
but not argue, the facts and law that the undersigned should rely on to decide
this proceeding. Any proposed finding of fact or conclusion of law that
contains such argument will be stricken. By contrast, the post-hearing briefs
should contain all arguments regarding the application of law to fact, and
arguments regarding all disputed issues.
8. By March 25, 2016, the Division may file a response to Respondent’s post-hearing
brief and proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law. Any response to
Respondent’s proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law shall be numbered and
limited to a counterstatement of the factual finding or legal conclusion, specifically
identifying the language that is disputed, and then supporting that counterstatement
by citations and quotation(s) as described above.
2

9. Courtesy copies of all stipulations, motions, post-hearing briefs, proposed findings of
fact and conclusions of law, and responses should be submitted to alj@sec.gov in
both PDF text-searchable format and Microsoft Word format.

_______________________________
Jason S. Patil
Administrative Law Judge

3

