UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS RULINGS
Release No. 3523 / January 20, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-16155

In the Matter of
ORDER ON PREHEARING MOTIONS
NICHOLAS ROWE

The hearing in this matter is scheduled to commence on February 1, 2016. Pending
before me are several prehearing motions filed by the parties. Except for Nicholas Rowe’s
motion to compel directed to the New Hampshire Bureau of Securities Regulation, the other
pending motions are addressed below.
Division of Enforcement’s Renewed Motion to Introduce Prior Sworn Testimony
The Division’s renewed motion to introduce prior sworn testimony of Mary Lambert is
GRANTED. As established by Division counsel’s declaration, Lambert will be in a remote part
of Panama during the hearing and it would not be feasible for her to testify by telephone or other
remote means while there. See 17 C.F.R. § 201.235(a)(2). Rowe does not object.
I note, however, that my granting of this motion does not permit the parties to enter into
evidence the prior sworn testimony of anyone else absent a ruling from me, even if the parties
otherwise stipulate to such evidence.
By the start of the hearing, the Division shall submit, and send Rowe a copy of,
Lambert’s prior FINRA arbitration testimony in its entirety, including her direct testimony and
cross-examination. The Division’s submission and copy to Rowe shall include a cover sheet
designating the specific portions of Lambert’s testimony it deems relevant to establishing its
case-in-chief. Rowe will have an opportunity to address or rebut Lambert’s prior testimony at
the hearing.
Division’s Motion in Limine to Exclude Expert Report
The Division moves to exclude Rowe from introducing Exhibit Focus 17, an expert
report from Rowe’s FINRA arbitration hearing, because Rowe is not calling the author of the
report as an expert to testify. The Division contends that the report was authored by Jay Rosen

of Capital Forensics, and that Brad Daniels of Capital Forensics offered expert testimony related
to the report during the FINRA hearing.
The motion is DENIED. In its motion, the Division cites to a federal appellate decision,
which states that Federal Rule Evidence 702 “permits the admission of expert opinion testimony
not opinions contained in documents prepared out of court.” Engebretsen v. Fairchild Aircraft
Corp., 21 F.3d 721, 728 (6th Cir. 1994). But the Federal Rules of Evidence do not control
admissibility in Commission proceedings. See Del Mar Fin. Servs., Inc., Exchange Act Release
No. 48691, 2003 SEC LEXIS 2538, at *28-29 (Oct. 24, 2003) (“We have stated on numerous
occasions that the Federal Rules of Evidence . . . are not applicable to our administrative
proceedings which favor liberality in the admission of evidence. . . . In doubtful cases, we have
expressed a preference for inclusiveness.”). Rather, the admissibility of such report is governed
by Commission Rule of Practice 320. Under the liberal standard of that rule, there is no basis to
exclude the report as “irrelevant, immaterial or unduly repetitious.” 17 C.F.R. § 201.320. And
given Rowe’s inability to hire a live expert, I will not exclude the report as a matter of discretion.
See Pagel, Inc., Exchange Act Release No. 22280, 1985 SEC LEXIS 988, at *16 (Aug. 1, 1985)
(“[J]udges have broad discretion in determining whether to admit or exclude evidence, and this is
particularly true in the case of expert testimony.” (internal quotation marks omitted)), aff’d, 803
F.2d 942 (8th Cir. 1986).
The absence of live expert testimony and Rowe’s failure to proffer the expert for crossexamination go to the report’s evidentiary weight, not its admissibility. The Division’s reliance
on Barry C. Scutillo, CPA, Initial Decision Release No. 183, 2001 WL 461287 (ALJ May 3,
2001), is misplaced. In Scutillo, the law judge rejected the Division’s attempt to proffer an
expert’s report on foreign law due to several deficiencies: the Division failed to identify the
translator of the report or the translator’s qualifications, failed to show the relevance of the
report, and proffered the report at the start of the hearing without prior notice to the respondents
and without an opportunity for cross-examination. Id. at *30-32. The law judge noted that the
opportunity for the respondents to cross-examine the expert was an obligation that fell on the
Division under the Administrative Procedure Act. Id. at *31-32; see 5 U.S.C. § 556(d). These
circumstances are lacking here, and I reject the Division’s assertion that it would be “unfairly
prejudice[d]” by allowing the report into evidence; it is the Division that brought this case
against Rowe and bears the burden of proof.
If the Division wishes to examine any witness from Capital Forensics about the report or
to call its own expert to rebut the report, I will consider allowing the Division to amend its
witness list. Lastly, Rowe’s failure to comply with the requirements of Rule 222(a)(4) and (b)
are not grounds for excluding the report, as Rowe is not calling an expert witness to testify. See
17 C.F.R. § 201.222(a)(4), (b).
Rowe’s Motions to Amend Witness List
Rowe’s motions to amend his witness list to add Carvel Tefft and Richard Goudarzi are
GRANTED. Tefft is an employee of the New Hampshire Bureau of Securities Regulation.
Rowe’s expected testimony from Tefft involves the alleged facts that Tefft was an options expert
and found that use of options reduced risk in client portfolios. Tefft allegedly interviewed Rowe
2

and made conclusions on behalf of the Bureau about Rowe. Such testimony would be relevant;
however, my ruling has no bearing on Rowe’s pending motion to compel directed to the Bureau
regarding, among other subjects, Tefft’s interview notes.
Goudarzi, a former client of Rowe, is expected to testify about the conduct of another
investor witness, Ronald Ferrante, Jr. Specifically, Goudarzi is expected to testify about
Ferrante’s alleged attempts to recruit him to join an action against Rowe, and Goudarzi’s belief
that Rowe has done nothing wrong and that Ferrante is lying. Such testimony is also relevant
and would be material to Rowe’s defense.
Rowe’s Motion to Compel Certain Parties to Produce Subpoenaed Information
Rowe moves for an order overruling objections filed by Bruce Gabriel, Frances Straccia,
Mary Beth Lambert, Ronald Ferrante, Jr., Ronald Ferrante, Sr., Anne Ferrante, Edward Duby,
and Suzanne Duby (collectively, the investor witnesses), to Rowe’s documentary subpoenas and
compelling production of certain information.
First, Rowe’s subpoenas asked for the investor witnesses to produce “lists” of certain
information, including any meetings they had with others about Rowe and his firm Focus
Capital. My December 2 order modified Rowe’s subpoenas and provided as follows:
To the extent that compliance with the subpoenas would require more than data
compilation in the creation of lists or summaries—that is, the creation of new
documents or tangible evidence where evidence does not already exist in some
tangible format, or a compilation of individuals’ memory or mental impressions—
the subpoena recipients may indicate as such in their responses and are not
required to provide such information.
Nicholas Rowe, Admin. Proc. Rulings Release No. 3364, 2015 SEC LEXIS 4919, at *6-7. As
the investor witnesses stated in their subpoena responses, there is no available data in their
possession, custody, or control from which the lists that Rowe seeks could be compiled. Fuller
Decl., Ex. 1. Separately, Straccia confirmed in a recent letter the dates of meetings and with
whom she spoke. Fuller Decl., Ex. 3. I decline to compel the investor witnesses to create lists in
these circumstances, as to do so would go beyond the scope of a documentary subpoena for the
reasons stated in my December 2 order.
Second, Rowe asserts that he has received limited production from the investor witnesses.
I raised this issue in my January 13 order and directed counsel for the investor witnesses to
provide a declaration itemizing the documents or categories of documents produced, and what
steps the investor witnesses took to comply with the subpoenas. Nicholas Rowe, Admin. Proc.
Rulings Release No. 3502, 2016 SEC LEXIS 126. On January 15, counsel Steven N. Fuller
submitted a declaration and exhibits, which establish as follows: Fuller determined that a
settlement agreement between several of the investor witnesses and a third-party was arguably
responsive, and, subject to a confidentiality agreement, produced the settlement agreement.
Fuller Decl. ¶ 4 & Ex. 2. In addition, Straccia, Ronald Ferrante, Sr., Anne Ferrante, and Mary
Beth Lambert have searched their records and have no other responsive documents. Id. ¶¶ 6, 8, 9
3

& Ex. 3. Ronald Ferrante, Jr. searched his records; although he initially found no responsive
documents, he later found and produced more than 200 pages of emails and attachments. Id. ¶ 7
& Ex. 4. The Dubys did not personally search their records because they are currently living in
Florida and any such material is in storage in New Hampshire. They stated in their November
2015 subpoena responses that there would likely be little or no written record of meetings and
calls, and any dates of calls or meetings would be by memory only, and that over time such
memories have become “sketchy.” Id., Ex. 5. Fuller investigated the issue further with the
Dubys and is confident that they have no responsive documents because, having represented
them in a related action, the “universe of documents provided to [Fuller’s] former law firm in
their case contained no responsive documents.” Id. ¶¶ 10-11. Gabriel searched his records and
produced responsive documents that he found. Id. ¶ 12 & Ex. 6.
Based on counsel’s declaration and the responses of the investor witnesses, it appears
they have nothing further to produce. Rowe, however, asserts in his reply that he received no
information regarding prior disputes that certain investor witnesses allegedly had with other
advisers, and that the declaration regarding the production efforts of the investor witnesses is
insufficient. As to the second point, Rowe argues that while my January 13 order directed for a
declaration regarding what steps the investor witnesses took to comply with the subpoenas, the
witnesses merely state that they reviewed their files and emails and found no responsive
documents and only Straccia detailed her efforts.
My ruling on the motion is DEFERRED. Rowe may question the witnesses at the
hearing regarding the completeness of their document production and subpoena compliance.
The Division’s request to file an opposition is DENIED as unnecessary.
Rowe’s Motion for Reconsideration
On January 4, 2016, Rowe submitted a motion for reconsideration of my December 2,
2015, order on motions to quash. That order modified Rowe’s documentary subpoenas as
follows:
To the extent that the subpoenas seek information regarding disputes,
controversies, claims, complaints, or settlements with or against persons who are
not in the securities industry, the subpoena recipients are not required to provide
such information. Although it is probative to Rowe’s defense whether certain
former clients brought claims against other investment advisers and other
securities industry participants, the scope of information regarding “any person
you have had any controversy with,” for example, is unreasonable.
Nicholas Rowe, 2015 SEC LEXIS 4919, at *7.
In his present motion, Rowe claims that a prospective witness informed Rowe that he had
disputes with three ministers and his neighbor. Rowe claims to “ha[ve] knowledge of these
disputes as [the prospective witness] used these as threats in an extortion attempt, informing
[Rowe] that he would do the same to him.” Rowe avers that such disputes bear on the witness’s
credibility and use of litigation as a threat.
4

Rowe waited over a month to seek reconsideration of the December 2 order. In any
event, it appears that the relevance of the alleged disputes, if any, relates to the conversation
Rowe claims to have had with the witness and how that conversation made Rowe feel threatened.
As Rowe asserts in his reply, “[t]he witness made these prior disputes relevant by attempting to
use them to get [Rowe] to settle with the witness.” How a documentary subpoena relates to that
conversation, however, is not apparent.
The relevance and reasonable scope of the documentary subpoena request is not
established, and therefore the motion for reconsideration is DENIED without prejudice. See 17
C.F.R. § 201.232(b). Subject to a reasonable scope of examination, Rowe may question the
witness at the hearing about these disputes, as well as testify in his own defense about this
conversation with the witness. If, upon questioning, it comes to light that there are relevant
documents, I will consider whether to compel production.
I will not exclude examination on the alleged disputes on the grounds of relevance, as the
Division requests. To do so now would be premature. Whether and to what extent such alleged
disputes bear on the question of credibility may be explored at the hearing and in post-hearing
briefs.
Rowe’s Motion to Remove Witnesses or Exclude Witness Testimony
Rowe moves to remove Alfred Yezbick, Joseph Hayden, and Susan Hayden as witnesses
in this matter or alternatively to limit their testimony. The Division’s witness list disclosed that
these witnesses would testify about their investment experience with Rowe. Rowe objects to
their expected testimony on certain subjects, arguing that no risk analysis was performed on their
accounts during separate arbitration proceedings and thus they should not be allowed to testify
about Rowe’s alleged disregard for their risk tolerance, failure to disclose the risks of certain
investment strategies, or refusal to acknowledge the inappropriateness of certain investment
strategies and products. In its opposition, the Division represents that it will call these three
witnesses to rebut Rowe’s contention that the other investor witnesses conspired against him, as
the Division alleges that these three witnesses were similarly victimized by Rowe.
The motion is DENIED without prejudice to Rowe’s ability to object at the hearing.
Contrary to Rowe’s argument, there is no basis for the wholesale exclusion of the expected
testimony as “irrelevant, immaterial or unduly repetitious.” 17 C.F.R. § 201.320; see City of
Anaheim, Exchange Act Release No. 42140, 1999 SEC LEXIS 2421, at *4 (Nov. 16, 1999)
(“Our law judges should be inclusive in making evidentiary determinations.”). The witnesses’
recollections of what they conveyed to Rowe about their risk tolerance and how they believe
Rowe disregarded their risk tolerance is relevant and material. That an expert risk analysis was
not previously performed on their accounts does not render their testimony irrelevant. As Rowe
acknowledges, these witnesses will appear as fact witnesses. Nothing indicates that these
witnesses will appear as experts. Thus, the fact that Rowe does not have an expert to rebut their
expected testimony is of little bearing.

5

Nor is their expected testimony unfairly prejudicial to Rowe; the same way these
witnesses may testify about their experience with Rowe and what they believe was his disregard
for their risk tolerance, Rowe may testify in his defense to rebut their testimony.
Rowe’s Motion in Limine to Assert Common-Law Spousal Privilege
Rowe moves to assert the common-law spousal privilege with regard to the Division’s
plan to call his wife, Lisa Rowe, as a witness and seeks to have his wife removed from the
Division’s witness list. My ruling on the motion is DEFERRED. At the hearing, Rowe may
object to specific questions posed by the Division to his wife on the grounds of an applicable
privilege.
Evidentiary privileges hinder the search for truth and therefore their scope must be
construed narrowly. See Trammel v. United States, 445 U.S. 40, 50 (1980); United States v.
White, 974 F.2d 1135, 1138 (9th Cir. 1992). Federal common law recognizes two types of
marital privileges, of which one is applicable outside of criminal cases: the confidential marital
communications privilege that “protects from disclosure private communications between the
spouses in the confidence of the marital relationship.” SEC v. Lavin, 111 F.3d 921, 925 (D.C.
Cir. 1997) (citing Blau v. United States, 340 U.S. 332, 333 (1951); Wolfle v. United States, 291
U.S. 7, 14 (1934)). However, to come within the scope of the marital communications privilege,
four prerequisites must be established. See id. (there must have been a communication, there
must have been a valid marriage at the time of the communication, the communication must have
been made in confidence, and the privilege must not have been waived).
Rowe’s claim that every possible question that the Division might pose to his wife would
fall within the marital communications privilege is premature. The Division intends to question
Rowe’s wife about certain business dealings and entities related to Rowe’s trading strategies.
Communications about business matters are usually not considered privileged as marital
confidences. See, e.g., Key Bank of Maine v. Latshaw, 633 A.2d 952, 956-57 (N.H. 1993)
(“Communications or transactions between husband and wife with respect to purely business
matters are usually held not privileged, on the ground that these are not marital confidences.”
(collecting case-law)); 1 McCormick on Evidence § 80 (7th ed. 2013) (“The fact that the
communication relates to business transactions may show that it was not intended as
confidential. Examples are statements about business agreements between the spouses, or about
business matters transacted by one spouse as agent for the other . . . . Usually such statements
relate to facts that are intended later to become publicly known. To cloak them with privilege
when the transactions come into litigation would be productive of special inconvenience and
injustice.”). Accordingly, the marital communications privilege may be asserted “in response to
specific questions as appropriate,” and I will rule on such privilege assertions at the hearing.
Abbott v. Kidder, Peabody & Co., No. 97-cv-3251, 1997 WL 337228, at *4 (N.D. Ill. June 16,
1997); see United States v. Manfredi, 628 F. Supp. 2d 608, 646 (W.D. Pa. 2009) (“Defendants
are not entitled to a blanket order precluding all testimony of a spouse . . . .”); cf. United States v.
Thornton, 733 F.2d 121, 125-26 (D.C. Cir. 1984) (“[A] trial court cannot speculate whether all
relevant questions would or would not tend to incriminate the witness; accordingly, the court
normally requires the privilege to be asserted in response to specific questions.”).

6

Rowe’s arguments that his wife’s testimony would be irrelevant, prejudicial, immaterial,
and unduly repetitious are premature, and in part simply bootstrap his privilege contention. See,
e.g., Motion in Limine at 2 (“It will unfairly prejudice Respondent because Lisa Rowe was not
involved in these dealings and does not have this information outside of the information obtained
through her marriage to Respondent that is privileged.”), 3 (“Again, any of Lisa Rowe’s
knowledge of these dealings came from confidential communications with Respondent.”). His
wife’s knowledge of Rowe’s business dealings and trading strategies would be relevant evidence
and admissible if it is not privileged. Moreover, and contrary to Rowe’s contention, the fact that
his wife was not previously part of an investigation or deposed does not render her testimony
“speculative.” She either does or does not have knowledge of these issues, which is more
properly determined through live testimony. Nor is it unduly repetitious for Rowe’s wife to
testify about matters that Rowe can also testify to and expects to be asked about by the Division.
A party may call more than one witness to testify about the same issues, to either corroborate or
undermine other evidence or testimony.
Lastly, Rowe contends that the Division’s naming of his wife as a potential witness
amounts to harassment, as she suffers from certain medical issues and being a potential witness
“has caused her much angst and stress.” Considering Rowe’s pro se status, I construe this aspect
of his motion as asserting that his wife would be unable to testify at the hearing on medical
grounds. As the Division sets forth in its opposition, it is willing to discuss with Lisa Rowe what
limitations she may have and address them. In his reply, Rowe sets forth no further information
about his wife’s health and has provided no documentation corroborating his claim.
Accordingly, I decline to excuse Rowe’s wife from testifying and this aspect of Rowe’s motion
is DENIED.
Rowe’s Motion to Clarify Scope of Trial
Rowe moves to limit the scope of the hearing to the consent order entered by the New
Hampshire Bureau of Securities Regulation and to exclude anything that is outside the scope of
the consent order. The motion is DENIED without prejudice to Rowe’s ability to object to the
Division’s presentation of evidence that he believes should be excluded.
The Commission specifically directed that I “may admit and consider additional evidence
from any relevant source, subject to challenge by either party, and, based on such additional
evidence, determine an appropriate sanction, if any.” Nicholas Rowe, Exchange Act Release No.
75982, 2015 SEC LEXIS 3928, at *18 (Sept. 24, 2015). Evidence outside the scope of the
consent order may be relevant to determining the appropriate sanction, if any, and is not subject
to blanket exclusion. See Timbervest, LLC, Advisers Act Release No. 4197, 2015 SEC LEXIS
3854, at *81 & n.114 (Sept. 17, 2015), appeal filed, No. 15-1416 (D.C. Cir.). Thus, Rowe’s
attempt to broadly exclude any and all evidence that is not specifically within the scope of the
consent order is premature. Accordingly, I will consider Rowe’s objections to the Division’s
presentation of evidence on a case-by-case basis at the hearing.
_______________________________
Jason S. Patil
Administrative Law Judge
7

