UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS RULINGS
Release No. 3854/May 19, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-16795

In the Matter of

ORDER DENYING RESPONDENT’S MOTION
TO CORRECT A MANIFEST ERROR OF FACT

JOSEPH J. FOX

On September 8, 2015, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued an order
instituting proceedings against Respondent, directing the determination of what, if any, nonfinancial remedial sanctions under Section 15(b)(6) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 were
in the public interest based on Respondent’s violations of Section 5(a) and (c) of the Securities
Act of 1933. I issued an initial decision (ID) on April 25, 2016, barring Respondent from the
securities industry for a period of five years. Joseph J. Fox, Initial Decision Release No. 1004,
2016 SEC LEXIS 1515.
On May 6, 2016, Respondent filed a motion to correct a manifest error of fact pursuant to
Rule of Practice 111(h), 17 C.F.R. § 201.111(h), to which was attached ten exhibits (Exs. 1-10).
A manifest error is “an error that is plain and indisputable, and that amounts to a complete
disregard of . . . the credible evidence in the record.” Robert Cord Beatty, Admin. Proc. Rulings
Release No. 618, 2005 SEC LEXIS 359, at *8 (ALJ Feb. 10, 2005) (quoting Black’s Law
Dictionary 563 (7th ed. 1999) (alteration omitted)), finality notice, Securities Act of 1933
Release No. 8554, 2005 SEC LEXIS 622 (Mar. 16, 2005). For an error of fact to be manifest, it
must be an error that could reasonably affect the outcome of the decision. See Raymond James
Fin. Servs., Inc., Admin. Proc. Rulings Release No. 622, 2005 WL 3778678, at *1 (ALJ Oct. 14,
2005), finality notice, Exchange Act Release No. 52810, 2005 WL 3108488 (Nov. 21, 2005). A
motion contesting the substantive merits of the initial decision may not be brought under Rule
111(h), and must instead be treated as a petition for review. See 70 Fed. Reg. 72566, 72567
(Dec. 5, 2005).
Although some of Fox’s contentions merit discussion, I find no manifest errors of fact in
the ID. I construe each assignment of manifest error liberally because Fox is pro se.
Willfulness:
Fox does not dispute that he consented to the entry of the OIP and to the finding that he
willfully violated Section 5(a) and (c) of the Securities Act. See ID at 1; Motion at 1. Fox

contends that he only gave such consent because the OIP included a footnote defining
willfulness, and, construed liberally, he argues that the ID should have cited that footnote as
evidence that he did not act intentionally. See Motion at 1. But the finding of willfulness is
supported by the record, and the ID noted that Fox “vigorously dispute[d]” that he intentionally
violated Section 5. ID at 6.
Public Interest Factors:
Fox raises multiple points regarding the public interest factors. See Motion at 1-2. Even
construed liberally, however, none of his points identify specific facts that might be manifestly
erroneous, and all of his points instead take issue with the substantive merits of the public
interest analysis. See id.
One of Fox’s points – that I “rever[s]ed [my] prior ruling on scienter with no evidentiary
basis” – merits discussion. Motion at 2. I previously ruled that the record was “insufficient to
support summary disposition,” and that “[m]ore is required to show that Respondent acted with
scienter.” Joseph J. Fox, Admin. Proc. Rulings Release No. 3711, 2016 SEC LEXIS 998, at *3
(ALJ Mar. 16, 2016). In the ID, which issued approximately six weeks later, I ruled that the
Division had shown that Fox acted at least recklessly, citing Abraham and Sons Capital, Inc., 55
S.E.C. 252, 268 (2001). See ID at 6. Abraham and Sons Capital, Inc., holds that it is reckless
for a securities professional1 to fail to be knowledgeable about, and to comply with, regulatory
requirements to which he is subject. See 55 S.E.C. at 268. Abraham and Sons Capital, Inc., first
came to my attention during the six weeks preceding issuance of the ID. That is, I changed my
mind in light of newly discovered case law.
Denial of Summary Disposition Motion Without Prejudice:
Fox contends that the ID should have mentioned that I initially denied the Division’s
motion for summary disposition without prejudice. See Motion at 3. This omission could not
reasonably affect the outcome of the proceeding, and therefore is not manifestly erroneous.
Offering Size and Purchasers:
Fox asserts that the ID “intimat[es] that all $10 million [of Ditto Holdings shares] was
sold in offerings where there were both accredited and non-accredited investors,” and contends
that $1.7 million of the sales were to accredited investors. Motion at 4. No such “intimation”
can be fairly read into the ID, which explicitly acknowledged that some investors were

1

More precisely, a securities professional with sufficient experience and training; I do not read
Abraham and Sons Capital, Inc., as requiring a finding of scienter in every case where a
securities professional violates a regulatory requirement. As noted in the ID, Fox worked for
several years as a registered representative, served as CEO of a registered broker-dealer, held
several securities licenses at various points in his career, and conducted private offerings and
sales and an initial public offering in the 1990s. See ID at 2, 7. Under Abraham and Sons
Capital, Inc., and in view of the undisputed facts of this proceeding, Fox acted recklessly.
2

accredited. ID at 3 (“The purchasers of Ditto Holdings stock ultimately included both accredited
and non-accredited investors.”).
Dealings with Marc Mandel:
Fox disputes the ID’s finding that Ditto Holdings’ agreements with Marc Mandel were
intended to “reach more potential investors.” See Motion at 4-5. That finding is a fair inference
from the OIP and is not manifestly erroneous.
Fox disputes the ID’s finding that Mandel “distributed an investment newsletter
introducing his roughly 350 subscribers to Ditto Holdings’ securities offerings.” See Motion at
5. That finding is a fair inference from the OIP and is not manifestly erroneous.
Fox contends that the ID omitted mentioning certain facts about Mandel’s marketing
efforts. See Motion at 5-6. Such omissions, even if proven, could not reasonably affect the
outcome of the proceeding, and therefore are not manifestly erroneous.
Advice of Counsel:
The OIP contains findings which “shall be accepted as and deemed true” for this
proceeding. OIP at 7. Such findings include the fact that no exemption from registration was
applicable to Fox’s sales of his own Ditto Holdings shares, and that an exemption from
registration was not available for all of Ditto Holdings’ securities offerings. Id. at 4. The ID
explicitly states that “exemptions from registration were not available for all of the transactions”
at issue. ID at 3.
Fox nonetheless contends that he relied on advice of counsel in “[a]ll decisions related to
the sale of [his] personal shares,” including that an exemption under Section 4(a)(2) of the
Securities Act was available. Motion at 6-8; see also id. at 9. Fox may not now dispute the
findings of the OIP to which he previously agreed for purposes of this proceeding. And the
evidence he cites in support of this contention is either cumulative (because it is undisputed that
Mandel supplied investors with a stock purchase agreement given to him by Fox) or irrelevant
(because there is no allegation that the stock purchase agreement was incomplete or misleading).
See OIP at 4; Exs. 1-3, 10. Fox’s contention is therefore meritless.
Accredited Investors:
Another finding that Fox may not now dispute is that neither he nor anyone acting on his
behalf took any steps to determine whether the purchasers of Fox’s shares were sophisticated
investors, despite the fact that at least two had previously identified themselves to Ditto Holdings
as non-accredited investors. See OIP at 4; ID at 3. Yet Fox nevertheless claims that the OIP is
“factually inaccurate” and that only one investor had previously been identified as nonaccredited, and suggests that he was unaware at the time of the transaction that the two investors
were unaccredited. Motion at 8. Again, Fox may not now dispute the findings of the OIP to
which he previously agreed for purposes of this proceeding, and, if anything, his lack of

3

knowledge of the investors’ status supports the finding that he took no steps to determine their
status.
Purchases by Mandel’s Subscribers:
Fox, citing certain exhibits, describes his sales of $1.25 million of his own shares of Ditto
Holdings in greater detail than what is found in the OIP or the ID. See Motion at 8-9; Exs. 4-6.
He identifies no manifest error, however, nor is anything he cites inconsistent with the ID’s
factual findings.
Shareholder Harm:
The ID stated: “It also appears that Ditto Holdings’ investors suffered financial losses.”
ID at 5. Fox contends that such losses were caused by “the malicious efforts of several false
‘whistle blowers.’” Motion at 10-11. Even if proven, this contention could not reasonably affect
the outcome of the proceeding, and the finding of investor losses is therefore not manifestly
erroneous.
Failure to Properly Disclose and Audit Ditto Holdings’ Financial Information:
Fox takes issue with the statement in the ID that Ditto Trade was “alleged to be Ditto
Holdings’ sole operating subsidiary.” ID at 5; see Motion at 11. This finding was not manifestly
erroneous, because Ditto Holdings’ financial statements were not timely audited, Ditto Trade
was in fact Ditto Holdings’ sole operating subsidiary, and the OIP so alleged. See OIP at 3 &
n.3. And though Fox contends that the egregiousness of his misconduct is mitigated because
Ditto Trade’s financial statements were audited, that contention is actually a challenge to the
substantive merits of the ID. See Motion at 11-12.
Lack of Solicitation, Intent:
Similarly, Fox’s contention that the egregiousness of his misconduct is mitigated because
he did not solicit investors, even if proven, is actually a challenge to the substantive merits of the
ID. See Motion at 11-12. His argument that I should have given more weight in my analysis of
egregiousness to the fact that he did not intentionally violate the securities laws also challenges
the substantive merits of the ID and does not identify a manifest error. See id.
Technicality:
Fox disputes at length the finding that Section 5 violations are not merely technical in
nature and that he previously characterized them as such. See Motion at 12-14; ID at 5. Most of
Fox’s arguments are merely challenges to the substantive merits of the ID. Two of his points,
however, merit discussion. First, although the parties apparently disagree on the matter, whether
Ditto Holdings was a penny stock was never properly at issue in this proceeding, and the parties’
disagreement is therefore immaterial. See Motion at 12 & n.3. Nonetheless, a stock priced at
less than five dollars per share can be a penny stock, even if it is not traded publicly. See 17
C.F.R. § 240.3a51-1. If anything, Fox’s suggestion to the contrary further supports the finding
4

that he is not knowledgeable regarding applicable regulatory requirements. See Motion at 12 &
n.3; ID at 7. Second, the evidence shows that Fox sent an email to Ditto Holdings investors
characterizing his conduct as “inadvertent technical rules violations.” See ID at 5; Motion at 13.
This finding is not manifestly erroneous.
Recurrence:
Fox apparently argues that sales of unregistered Ditto Holdings stock to non-accredited
investors took place over a shorter period of time than all sales of unregistered Ditto Holdings
stock, and that his misconduct was therefore not as recurrent as the ID suggests. See Motion at
14. But Fox concedes that multiple sales of unregistered stock took place over a period totaling
twenty-two months; even taking his argument as true, his misconduct was recurrent. See id. The
finding of recurrence is not manifestly erroneous. And his claim that I should have found his
actions less egregious due to this allegedly shorter time period is a challenge to the substantive
merits of the ID. Id. at 11-12.
Sincerity, Recognition, and Occupation:
Fox devotes several pages of the motion to contesting the findings that the “evidence is
mixed regarding the sincerity of Fox’s assurances against future violations and his recognition of
the wrongful nature of his conduct,” and that his occupation “does not weigh heavily in favor of
a severe sanction.” ID at 5-6; see Motion at 14-20 (citing Exs. 7-9). I have carefully considered
all of his points and evidence, even though presenting them in the present context is procedurally
improper. Most of his points challenge the substantive merits of the ID, and as to the points that
do not, I find no manifest errors of fact as to these three public interest factors.
Scienter:
Fox contests the finding that he acted recklessly, and assigns error to three specific
factual findings. See ID at 6-7; Motion at 20-22. I find no manifest errors of fact regarding
scienter.
Sanction:
Lastly, Fox makes several points regarding the public interest, including that his
misconduct did not require use of a securities license, he has never conducted an exempt offering
using his principal’s or broker’s licenses, he has a “spotless compliance record,” and FINRA
never “questioned the missing disclosures.” Motion at 22-23. I have carefully considered these
points, even though presenting them in the present context is procedurally improper, and find no
manifest errors of fact.
Respondent’s motion to correct a manifest error of fact is DENIED.
_______________________________
Cameron Elliot
Administrative Law Judge
5

